
Today’s Stories 

Facebook will share anonymized location data with disaster relief organizations
Microsoft acquires Israeli security firm Hexadite, sources say for $100M
Kickstarter hires Slack’s Erica Baker as director of engineering
Andy Rubin’s Essential has reportedly raised $300 million

Credits
Written by: Tito Hamze, John MannesHosted by: Tito HamzeFilmed by: Mitch EasonEdited by: Tito Hamze
Notes:

I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.

TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107
Hey SoftBank,
First of all, congratulations. You’re about to purchase some of the coolest toys in the history of human civilization. Seriously, it’s like Christmas in early June for you all. I’m sure you can’t wait to take one of those big, hulking robots for a spin and make all of your neighbors jealous. I get it. We had Spot onstage at an event last year and for one brief, glorious moment, I actually felt alive again. 
I’m sure you’ve got big plans for Big Dog and Co. People don’t just run out and buy groundbreaking robotics companies from Google for an undisclosed sum without big plans. I know you’ve been pushing into the robotics world in recent years, and there’s no stronger letter of intent than picking up one of the most prestigious names in the game. You’ve probably got some great things in the works. And I’m excited to see what the two of you can do together.
 Just one quick request: Please let Boston Dynamics be Boston Dynamics. 
It’s a big ask, I know. I get it. Pepper’s probably getting lonely being the sole face of your robotics division. That friendly face hides a lot pain. I can see it in those dead, black eyes.

I just don’t want to see a repeat of the Alphabet deal. Those two great companies could have done some great things together. Andy Rubin buying up a whole bunch of cool robotics startups under the Google banner sounded like the company was hastening the singularity and embracing some Lex Luthor-level supervillainy all at the same time. Truly exciting stuff. 
But Alphabet just didn’t know what to do with the damn thing. It was a square peg in a round hole. Turns out it’s really hard to monetize a company that makes big, loud robots built for war zones. There’s a reason DARPA grants are keeping so many robotics companies afloat. 
And believe me, I understand what you’re doing with Pepper. You’ve bought Aldebaran Robotics and turned their research robots into friendly store greeters. They’re not changing the world, but hey, they might well be the first encounter with a friendly robot for a new generation of roboticists. And you’ve certainly got the resources to turn them into even more. 
And it’s not like I’m asking you not to leverage all of Boston Dynamics’ incredible technology for those existing platforms. I’m just asking you to let the company maintain the freedom it has to build some of the world’s most exciting robots. Your immense resources combined with the team’s brainpower could help push robotics to great new levels. 
If you find yourself sticking a smiling face on Big Dog and placing it outside of an Applebee’s on the other hand, it’s pretty safe to say you two aren’t a great fit. That’s kind of what happened to Google. After Rubin left, Alphabet reportedly pushed the companies under its Replicant umbrella to be more consumer friendly. But there’s a reason every story about Big Dog or Atlas makes some tired reference to robotics overlords. Those robots are big and scary. But they’re also modern technological marvels.

It wouldn’t be useful to rattle off statistics. Sure, I read somewhere that 67 percent of second marriages end in divorce. But is that really useful information in this instance? Probably not. But I read somewhere else that the keys to a successful relationship are independence and trust. That seems relevant.
SoftBank, please let Boston Dynamics continue to build big robots and make crazy videos and I’m sure all of this will work out in the end. 
I’m rooting for you crazy kids, I really am.
Facebook is finally getting office space in San Francisco, and is currently considering several different locations, one of which will house up to 100 Instagram employees, an industry source familiar with the lease plan confirmed to TechCrunch.
Earlier today, The Registry reported Facebook is in talks for a space at 181 Fremont in the South of Market district — a 70-story tower that won’t open until early next year. Our source confirmed this is one of the buildings Facebook is choosing from, though there are other options it’s looking at and no lease has been signed yet.
Instagram has a giant light-up logo in front of its current Menlo Park office. Image by Vocino
Facebook is considering this a “test” or “pilot” of San Francisco office space, our source said, so don’t expect it to suddenly relocate its massive Menlo Park headquarters from Silicon Valley up to the city. Facebook has offices in 68 cities around the world, yet has had to resort to holding SF meetings at its PR company OutCast’s offices.
Having an SF office could help Instagram’s recruiting effort because employees who live in the city wouldn’t have to endure the hour-plus shuttle ride to Instagram’s current Menlo Park headquarter’s that’s a mile from the main Facebook campus. Traffic has grown worse and worse in the Bay Area as startups flock to the region, giving companies located in SF a recruiting edge by being able to dangle a short subway ride, Uber or walk to work.
Instagram’s Menlo Park office features elaborate photo backdrops. Image via CarinaJXT
Many employees at Facebook and Instagram I’ve spoken to loathe the commute, and some who have left for companies in the city like Uber or Twitter cite the shorter commute as a big draw. For younger, more extroverted tech workers, living in San Francisco offers a much more culturally rich experience than the hollow hills and office parks of the South Bay.
Only a portion of Instagram’s 500 employees would fit in the new SF space, and our source didn’t know which team or projects would be centered there. But if Instagram does see its recruitment improve thanks to the office in SF, Facebook might consider expanding this “pilot” with more offices there. You can expect plenty of jockeying between Instagram employees for those few SF desks.

 Glassdoor.com
Here’s a surprise turn of events: SoftBank — maker of the friendly Pepper robot and a major M&A player in the tech world — has just announced that it is acquiring two more robotics companies from Google owner Alphabet as part of its own deeper move into the field: it is buying Big Dog developer Boston Dynamics and the secretive bipedal robotics firm Schaft.
A spokesperson for SoftBank has confirmed to us that the terms of the deal are not being disclosed, but we will try to find out. In case you are wondering (we were), we have double-checked and these are the only two of Alphabet’s robotics companies getting acquired by SoftBank.
There had been lots of murmurs about Google (and then Alphabet) wanting to offload Boston Dynamics for over a year now. Most recently, Toyota was apparently eyeing an acquisition of the two businesses.
But robots are huge across all of Japan, with some of the biggest innovations, investments and motivations for developing them coming out of the country; and so, in the end, it looks like another titan of Japanese industry beat Toyota to the punch.
“Today, there are many issues we still cannot solve by ourselves with human capabilities,” said Masayoshi Son, chairman and CEO of SoftBank Group Corp., in a statement. “Smart robotics are going to be a key driver of the next stage of the Information Revolution, and Marc and his team at Boston Dynamics are the clear technology leaders in advanced dynamic robots. I am thrilled to welcome them to the SoftBank family and look forward to supporting them as they continue to advance the field of robotics and explore applications that can help make life easier, safer and more fulfilling.”
While SoftBank has been hard at work doubling down on big bets in areas that it believes will be at the center of the future of computing — other acquisitions have included its $24 billion acquisition of chip maker ARM Holdings — for Alphabet, this is part of the company’s bigger efforts to rationalize some of its many acquisitions and strategic bets over the years that have not panned out as great fits with the wider business.
It looks like the whole team is coming over with the deal. “We at Boston Dynamics are excited to be part of SoftBank’s bold vision and its position creating the next technology revolution, and we share SoftBank’s belief that advances in technology should be for the benefit of humanity,” said Marc Raibert, CEO and founder of Boston Dynamics, in a statement.
“We look forward to working with SoftBank in our mission to push the boundaries of what advanced robots can do and to create useful applications in a smarter and more connected world.”
When Alphabet (still called Google at the time) acquired Shaft and Boston Dynamics in 2013 (Shaft was purchased as one of a group of seven acquisitions), the company did not disclose the terms of the deals.
While Boston Dynamics has been pretty public in posting (sometimes terrifying) videos and generally talking about its advances in making animal-like robots that can trek across all terrains and get up instantly when knocked over, Schaft has been a fairly quiet presence.
Schaft revealed its first big prototypes only about two years after the acquisition. The company has been around since 2012, after being incubated in the JSK Robotics Laboratory at the University of Tokyo by co-founders Yuto Nakanishi, Junichi Urata, Narito Suzuki and Koichi Nishiwaki. It remains a secretive company: an attempted visit to its website today was blocked.
After breaking up in 2014, Taylor Swift and Spotify are getting back together. To celebrate her album 1989 hitting 10 million records sold and her selling 100 million total songs, today the pop singer announced she’s making her full back-catalog available on all streaming services starting tonight at midnight.
Swift was already on Apple Music, but now she’s opening up to Spotify, Amazon Music Unlimited, Amazon Prime Music, Tidal, Pandora Premium and more. Industry sources tell me that Swift’s songs will be available on both the free ad-supported and paid tiers of Spotify.


❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️ pic.twitter.com/kcpY03qHLp
— Taylor Nation (@taylornation13) June 8, 2017



The move by one of streaming’s biggest holdouts could signal a sea change in how artists view the technology that’s been criticized for underpaying content creators. As Spotify recently hit 50 million paid subscribers and Apple Music now has 27 million, the payouts are growing and starting to make up for the massive decline in physical record sales.
Back in 2014, Swift got into a huge spat with Spotify because her music was available on its ad-supported free tier, telling Time that “I think there should be an inherent value placed on art,” contrasting it with how on “Beats Music and Rhapsody you have to pay for a premium package in order to access my albums. And that places a perception of value on what I’ve created.”
Taylor Swift is getting back together with Spotify
At the time, Spotify refused to let any music only appear on its paid tier and not its ad-supported tier to avoid confusing listeners, so Swift pulled almost all her music. (In July 2017, Spotify struck deals to pay lower royalties to some labels in exchange for delaying some top album releases from appearing on its free tier for two weeks.)
Yet the media spectacle ended up driving tons of new users to Spotify, a source familiar with the company told me, because the message people heard was, “I can listen to any music except Taylor Swift for free on Spotify? I’m in.”
Swift next went to war with Apple Music, which offers a free three-month trial for its service, but initially refused to pay royalties to artists during these trials. Swift rightfully saw this strategy as forcing musicians to lose money for Apple’s marketing benefit. Apple eventually relented, and began paying artists royalties even during its trials. And because it had no ad-supported tier, Swift’s inclusion on Apple Music became a talking point for the service.
But now, artists are wising up that streaming is essentially a promotional vehicle for the real ways they make money — concert tickets and merchandise. Listening on Spotify can turn someone who heard one of TayTay’s singles on a radio into a hardcore fan that shells out lots of cash for her shows and t-shirts. And at the current rate of growth, streaming service payouts will approach what musicians made off CD sales in the peak of that bygone era.
Streaming isn’t going away. Artists either need to get on board, or forfeit existing and potential listeners.
Earlier this week, at a staff meeting in San Francisco, Uber executives revealed to the company’s 12,000 employees that 20 of their colleagues had been fired and that 57 are still being probed over harassment, discrimination and inappropriate behavior, following a string of accusations that Uber had created a toxic workplace and allowed complaints to go unaddressed for years.
Those complaints had pushed Uber into crisis mode earlier this year. But the calamity may be just beginning.
Indeed, if Uber executives were hesitant to part ways with particular employees for fear of recrimination, it’s suddenly easy to see why. Since announcing those firings on Monday, which reportedly included senior executives, Uber — which has long operated like an impenetrable fortress — has begun springing leaks right and left.
The question is whether the stories coming to light now are the most damning of the bunch, or leakers are starting in reverse and building toward a kind of crescendo that could finally lead to the ousting of CEO and co-founder Travis Kalanick.
Certainly, he’s having an especially challenging week.
Yesterday, Uber fired senior executive Eric Alexander after it was leaked to Recode that Alexander had obtained the medical records of an Uber passenger in India who was raped in 2014 by her driver.
Recode also reported that Alexander had shared the woman’s file with Kalanick and his senior vice president, Emil Michael, and that the three men suspected the woman of working with Uber’s regional competitor in India, Ola, to hamper its chances of success there.
Uber eventually settled a lawsuit brought by the woman against the company. But that Alexander wasn’t among those employees fired earlier in the week — Uber terminated him only after Recode published its story — only created more questions about Kalanick’s judgment, as well as served to undermine the company’s broader harassment probe.
Yet that development has already been pushed aside by another. A couple of hours ago, Recode was leaked a 2013 email written by Kalanick that appears to showcase even worse judgment on his part.
Originally crafted by Kalanick when Uber had just 400 employees, the email is an obvious attempt by Kalanick to bond with employees who were preparing to celebrate an important milestone for the company — entering into its 50th city, Miami. Yet the language he uses is enough to make the most libertine lawyer light-headed.
Among the “don’ts” that Kalanick outlines in his company-wide missive about a party about to take place: “Do not throw large kegs off of tall buildings. Please talk to Ryan McKillen and Amos Barreto for specific insights on this topic.” Also, “Do not have sex with another employee UNLESS a) you have asked that person for that privilege and they have responded with an emphatic “YES! I will have sex with you” AND b) the two (or more) of you do not work in the same chain of command. Yes, that means that Travis will be celibate on this trip. #CEOLife #FML.”
His fifth point: “Drugs and narcotics will not be tolerated unless you have the appropriate medicinal licensing.”
Likely, putting a spin on the concerns of Uber’s attorneys seemed funny to Kalanick and some of Uber’s employees at the time. Now, some of those once-loyal employees — exiled from the company — seem determined to have the last laugh.
Kalanick and his closest advisors must be wondering what other ammunition they have toward that end. Then again, they might know exactly what’s coming.
Stay tuned.
The Robust Adaptive Systems Lab just might have the highest ceilings of any laboratory on the Carnegie Mellon campus. It’s big and drafty, and were it not for the rows of computer workstations dotting the room, it might easily be mistaken for an airplane hangar. The centerpiece is a scaffolding structure surrounded on all four sides by netting that looks more like a batting cage than a serious piece of lab equipment at one of the world’s foremost robotics schools.

But when the demo starts, everyone stops and watches. Fifteen pocket-sized drones are lined up, three by five. All at once, bright lights flash beneath each, moments before suddenly lifting off in unison. The drones split into smaller groups and explore the boundaries of the cage, before converging again and moving around as one. The batting cage is a motion capture arena, designed to track the quadcopters’ choreographed movement with pinpoint accuracy. 
The whole thing is mesmerizing. Like a real-world, robotic kaleidoscope, set to the soundtrack of dozens of tiny whirring propellers. It’s the final demo on a packed day’s trip to CMU’s Pittsburgh campus, and it may well be the most visually impressive. That’s by design. The team has been putting its research to use creating drone performances. One popped up in a recent music video by Norwegian electro-pop singer Aurora, and the team is working with CMU’s art department to employee them as part of an upcoming live theatrical performance.

Grad student, Ellen A. Cappo admits that the drone choreography was prepared in advance for the sake of our cameras, but the team is working on something far more complex. “I’m looking at examples where you don’t know ahead of time what you want to do,” she explains. “If you’re using the code base that you’re working on here, Lady Gaga could have gestured her hands and directed all the robots in real time [at the Super Bowl], as part of her performance in an improvisational manner.”
Cappo’s work centers on the relationship between humans and robots. The team is building complex systems capable of responding to user controls, while correcting for human errors and, hopefully, avoiding disaster before it occurs. Cappo’s flight planner is designed to do much of the heavy lifting on the backend, determining the best ways to execute commands without running afoul of the sorts of problems that can occur when one individual is attempting to pilot a number of systems all at once..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



“We’re taking the intent, but dealing with all the low-level questions that the human user doesn’t want to think about, or that are difficult for the human user to think about,” explains Cappo. “Like making sure the motors don’t saturate, because the human told the robot to go somewhere more quickly than the robot is physically capable of.”

The system could one day help industries deploy drones in groups to perform inspections or assist with disaster recovery — the sorts of difficult, dirty and dangerous jobs analysts so often cite when discussing the importance of automation in the future of the job market. The system isn’t limited to drones, either. It could potentially be applied to any manner of robots in a group. But as it happens, the consumer drone market is playing a major role in making the technology accessible for school research groups.

“The hobbyist market has come really far in recent years,” explains Cappo. “So these devices are fairly affordable. But they have enough computational power on-board for something like this, where I want to study the interaction between multiple systems, I can buy something that is computationally advanced enough to execute the controls I need, but cheap enough for me to buy them in bulk.”
Labmate Vishnu Desaraju, a CMU PhD student, employees a larger variety of drone for his demo. His, too, takes place in the motion capture arena, but now the team fires up eight high-powered floor fans stacked atop one another in various configurations. It’s a makeshift system designed to mimic natural wind.


Crunchbase






				Carnegie Mellon University			


 
Founded
1900


Overview
Carnegie Mellon University is a global research university with more than 11,000 students, 84,000 alumni, and 4,000 faculty and staff. Recognized for its world-class arts and technology programs, collaboration across disciplines and innovative leadership in education, Carnegie Mellon is consistently a top-ranked university.


Location

Pittsburgh, PA



Categories

Higher Education 


Website

http://www.cmu.edu/index.shtml 


Full profile for Carnegie Mellon University 









Like Cappo’s system, the second demo is designed to help drones avoid disaster in real-world settings, only instead of correcting human error, Desaraju’s work focuses on the chaotic impacts of nature on a poor-flying drone. 
“There are a number of techniques that we can use to control the vehicles,” explains Desaraju. “But a lot of these assume that vehicles are operating in very nice conditions. So, how do we handle conditions that are not so nice, like really windy conditions or cases where you have a lot of uncertainty to account for. What I’m looking at is how we actually learn new control strategies and policies as we go, but do so in a rigorous manner so we don’t crash the vehicle as we’re trying to learn.”
The demo lacks the impressive visual scale of the one that preceded it, but there’s a fascinating subtle element visible as the drone slowly adapts to its surroundings. In the first demo, the drone wobbles, unsure of how to respond to its environment. But with each flight, it gets better, slowly adjusting to the external forces.

“We were looking at different flight and control strategies,” says Desaraju. “We realized that control was really the limiting factor, because we don’t have a good way to compensate for these types of disturbances. There are existing techniques that do try to address this, but they’re looking at one particular instance. No matter what sort of circumstance we’re working in, we want to be able to learn a custom set of behaviors for the scenario.”
Like Cappo’s demo, Desaraju’s system could offer an important level of support for those looking to employ drones in the workplace, from surveys to photographers. Or, for that matter, Lady Gaga. 



Roger Huang handles growth for Springboard and writes technical programming tutorials at code(love). 

If innovation is the religion of the technology industry, then industriousness is the religion for the rest of America’s workforce.
Most of America is as foreign to the technology industry as China might be to Americans. Pound-for-pound, immigrants are a larger part of companies founded in technology. The average yearly salary of a data scientist is above $110,000, almost double the median income across the United States.
About 48 percent of people in Silicon Valley have bachelor’s degrees or more compared to 32 percent or so across the United States. And, of course, while close to 7 in 10 Americans describe themselves as either somewhat or very religious, many technologists are famously secular — or even indifferent — to the idea of religion.
It’s important to note these differences because they help blueprint the cultural walls that have built up year-by-year. And tearing down the barriers to more equitable economic prosperity will involve reconciling the people building technology with the cultural effects of that technology on the citizens that they do not understand.
Most Trump voters are actually quite wealthy. They earned more than the average Cruz voter in the primary, and typically earn more than the average American. In many ways, this election split among cultural lines more than they did among economic ones.
While Trump may have picked up a category of union workers and working class voters that usually go more strongly for Democrats, he did not, by himself, flip a dynamic that had lower income groups voting for the Democrat and higher income groups voting for the Republican. Many minority voters suffered the most during the 2008 recession — the racial wealth gap in America has only increased. Yet that did not significantly affect their voting patterns.
What did affect voting patterns was the desire for a change in the direction of the country, but it’s not the change through innovation that remains the promise of Silicon Valley technologists.
Robots on a shelf at MassRobotics innovation hub in Boston
The seeds of automation
Why does change and culture matter so much? The Midwest and the South that delivered the election offer a hint as to why. J.D. Vance, in his moving book (Hillbilly Elegy, part-memoir, part-elegy), offered that the church was the only social support left for towns wrecked by a lack of work.
It argued that losing work not only created economic chaos, it created cultural tension with groups of people cut off from all support. It argued that economic displacement was never wholly economic and that it came with cultural effects.
People in the technology industry talk often of a universal basic income and imagine it’ll solve every problem inherent to the loss of work. What we don’t realize is just how meaningful work truly is to the American identity.
Loss of work doesn’t just put economic stability at risk. It causes health issues. It leads to breakdowns in cultural identity, and loss of status, and perhaps most importantly a loss of respect. It can kill people by driving suicides and crime up. These are things that thoughts of a universal basic income will never be able to solve fully.
Voters who embraced Trump weren’t just thinking of absolute economic growth: They were thinking of relative economic growth and what it meant for their relative status. A universal basic income doesn’t help people cope with the loss of purpose or status. This is something working and middle-class America, for better or for worse, has been conditioned to see as their life’s purpose.
Coupled with this is an epidemic of drugs that has gripped parts of America — especially in the smaller cities and rural counties that overwhelmingly voted for Trump.
It changes the argument if you think of a job as more than a salary, which is how most Americans rightfully regard their jobs.
Technologists can be guilty of treating work with contempt. Many of us may assume that because Americans are dissatisfied with their current working conditions means they don’t value the jobs they have.
While that may be true of individual jobs, it’s grievously false when it comes to employment itself. A realization that work is the religion of America, and that industriousness is the floor upon which your status rests, is one of the most concrete ways to view the shattering of a bubble that had warped the technology sector’s vision.
Economists have estimated that almost 50 percent of all job losses in the United States in the last few decades are because of automation. This is widespread, with job losses in manufacturing to service jobs. Now it is threatening to encroach on jobs seen as belonging to the upper-middle class to the upper class just below the richest in society, from medical specialists to lawyers.
Networks built to augment human drivers are now looking to replace them. Human labor, the largest input cost for many companies, is at the losing end of a ferocious war to determine who controls the wealth and power in a society. Increasingly, that looks to be technologists devouring the world.
Those who have the technical skills needed to build, understand and control the systems of the future have nothing to fear. Those who are being subjected to the effects of those efforts are confused and angry, and they don’t know why opportunities seem to be decreasing. Some may blame immigrants. Some may blame a rigged system. What can’t be denied is that this feeling is real, and backed by the data both systematic and anecdotal. Saying everything is alright doesn’t mean it’s quite so.
Economic prosperity is coming, but it has been divided increasingly into polarized classes of haves and have-nots — and no amount of universal basic income or new types of work can tackle that issue head-on with the urgency it needs.
Those who voted for Trump were not voting necessarily for their economic present. They were voting for the future — a future filled with economic and cultural desolation that would continue to pass them by if they did not take a wrecking ball to the systems around them. We have, all of us, started reaping the seeds of automation.

Broken accessibility
All of this wouldn’t hurt as much, perhaps, if the technology sector were as inclusive as its ideals. Tech is a meritocracy in name. Yet beyond all of the technical skills one should look for, the deadly truth remains that we are very much a place where success is found in access and networks.
For a group of people so data-driven, the obsession over unscientific variations of culture fit can become a quick way to exclude different types of people for scant reasons. The need to look beyond traditional sources of engineers highlights a simple fact… that the technology sector is in many ways less diverse and inclusive than the rest of America.
With the revolving door spinning to tech and away from finance, the question of accessibility to Silicon Valley’s riches and status will only grow larger. The diversity of thought and demographics in the Bay Area will loom ever larger in the national conscience as technology grows in scope and influence.
J.D. Vance’s Hillbilly Elegy admonishes the white working class that encourages “reacting to bad circumstances in the worst way possible” — yet he also has words for the upper-class elites and the aspirational (and diminishing) upper middle class. While he may have been applying his critique to the traditional guardians of mobility, the elite Ivy League schools he attended — his train of thought applies as much to the new gatekeeper of wealth mobility, the startups and investment firms that dot the world with exclusive cocktail parties and private pitches.
There is a new, almost Gatsby-esque contempt for those who don’t pattern-match with the traits associated with a successful entrepreneur. The nerds might have won — but we’ve left precious little space for others.
As much as we might not understand the rest of America, they may not understand us, as well. And when not understanding the rituals of a new ascendant economic and cultural class costs people a fair share of the pie, they will fear what they don’t understand, and hate what they fear — if they haven’t started already.

Data-driven disruption
Pattern-matching is the natural default of technologists. It extends to a love for data, for rational, hard facts that determine ideal courses of action. Beyond just a fascination for the underdog and new technologies, a love of being data-driven is part and parcel of the gospel of the technology sector.
It’s something that’s not naturally obvious when you look at the tech sector, a collection of people bound by ideas that go beyond them. Yet this love of data can take an unhealthy turn.
Above all else, the Trump campaign used social media to maximum effect. A campaign that was heavily outspent on all dimensions by Hillary Clinton had to rely on free and earned media to get its message out. In many ways, the Trump campaign built itself on the efficient use of tools technology has made available to all.
Yet another layer of this story goes much beyond that. Fake news swayed many people during the campaign, and often spread like wildfire. Much has been written on this topic, so many of the key points don’t bear rehashing — however, the main point to be made here may be that when you have an algorithm that prizes engagement in the goals of monetization, your data can lead you to bad outcomes.
With the wrong approach, you’ll often get results that supersede your original intent. In this case, Facebook’s standards prized the wisdom of the crowd, and, at that, a segmented one. In effect, Facebook has determined that we are the wisest to determine the content around us. That has led to several implications beyond healthy revenue for Facebook.
It has led to different disjointed bubbles of communication where you can live in the same city and get vastly different opinions at all times. It doesn’t consider authentic content to be the most valuable: rather it optimizes for reaction. At times, that has led to the rise of clickbait empires such as Upworthy. Now, it has led to the rise of alternative media sources that trade in truths and conspiracies.
The answer isn’t to have better human intervention or more editorial standards. It’s to realize just how much data collection matters, and how the algorithmic treatment you apply to immensely valuable data can lead to vast societal impact. Forty percent or so of people get their news from Facebook — it is by far one of the largest gatekeepers of information and trust in the world.
The trust users have placed into it, revealing every intimate detail of their lives, will now be entrusted into the hands of a company that is bound by law to obey and submit to federal surveillance agencies controlled by a Trump administration.



A personal story
As I take the time to wind down my thoughts, I have to note that writing this story has been very personal to me. I work in tech. When Donald Trump says immigrants take away American jobs, and when he tries to restrict legal paths to immigration, that directly affects people like me.
I think back to my work with Springboard. We’ve helped train people around the world, but mostly Americans, in cutting-edge digital skills, from UX design to data science. We’ve helped many people gain jobs in the new digital economy, jobs that promise satisfaction and high pay.
Despite that, I wonder if I’m the “burden” Trump implies I am. I pay taxes and don’t receive any benefits, yet I watch a president teeter between saying he wants high-skilled migrants, and cutting off every possible route to become one. J1s, H-1B, TNs, green cards — alphabet soup for most Americans, but essential sounds to anybody seeking to navigate the byzantine legal immigration system.
In many ways, magnified much beyond my personal story and in situations that are much graver than mine, Trump is America’s personal repudiation to many elements of technology.
It is a personal rejection, one encompassed in a wave of rejections. It is clear to me now more than ever that the technology sector is its own special place — yet if we don’t reach out, our isolation will crush everything we seek to build.

The way forward
Ironically, it’s on Twitter where I’ve found closure after this election season. Every time I’ve reached out to Trump fans there it has sometimes resulted in them questioning my ethnicity and belonging (I keep a Twitter strongly correlated with my identity). That’s a vast minority of opinions though.
I’ve had good conversations. I’ve learned certain things. I feel like I’ve imparted to at least a few people the prosperity immigrants can bring. Most importantly, I feel like I’ve fulfilled part of the sacred promise of technology: that more information would bring a better understanding of the world and that the potential for humans to connect across vast geographies could lead to insight that might never have been created.
I still believe in that sacred promise. And even though charges can be levied on how America perceives technology, we have to look inwards and fix what’s broken and confining us from understanding the rest of America first. We can examine the effect of automation, and be very earnest about the displacement it creates. We can make high-paying technology jobs and opportunities more accessible to all. We can use data for good.
Fundamentally, the technology sector is an island of optimism that is looking to do good while doing well — this above all else is what will pave the way forward.

 Cheriss May/NurPhoto via Getty Images
Techdirt is currently embroiled in a legal battle with Shiva Ayyadurai, a man who claims to have invented email. But regardless of the outcome, founder and CEO Mike Masnick said that the $15 million lawsuit has already had a big impact on his site — a 20-year-old, independent blog covering the intersection of law and technology.
Masnick spoke today at the Personal Democracy Forum in New York City, and while most people at public events will beg off commenting directly on ongoing litigation, Masnick made the lawsuit his central topic.
It’s a risky move to talk about his legal issues, Masnick admitted. He choked up repeatedly during his talk, but he said this wasn’t due to stage fright: “It’s the first time doing a talk like this that I am incredibly, painfully aware that every single word that I’m saying right here may be used against me in court.”
Masnick connected this case to the lawsuit that Terry Bollea (the real name of wrestler Hulk Hogan) brought against Gawker Media, with funding from venture capitalist Peter Thiel — a lawsuit that eventually forced the company to declare bankruptcy and sell to Univision. Ayyadurai had also sued and settled with Gawker, and in his case against Techdirt, he’s represented by Harder Mirell & Abrams, the same firm that brought Bollea’s case against Gawker.
This suit is focused on Techdirt articles about Ayyadurai’s controversial claim that he invented email. As Masnick put it, “I gave my opinion, backed up with lots of evidence, that this guy did not invent email, even if he owns the website inventorofemail.com.”
And leaving aside the invention question, Masnick said, “We believe everything we wrote, that I wrote in particular, was protected speech under the First Amendment, especially when talking about a public figure.” (Ayyadurai is running against Elizabeth Warren for one of Massachusetts’ seats in the U.S. Senate.)
Masnick argued that the real aim of the suit is to shut Techdirt down — that this is, in other words, a SLAPP intended to silence someone’s free speech. After all, Ayyadurai has tweeted that “#FakeNewsMedia like TechShit need to be shutdown for their FAKE NEWS.”
 And since the suit was filed in January, Masnick said there have been “very real chilling effects” on his business. He estimated that the site has been publishing one-third fewer stories than it was before, and he said its Copia think tank has had to delay events and papers.
“Every time I publish a story, I have to think, ‘Will I get sued over this?’ ” Masnick said. In fact, he claimed that since Techdirt was sued by Ayyadurai, it has received three other lawsuit threats.
At the same time, Masnick said, “As we wait for this process to play out — hopefully soon, we will see — we’re trying as hard as possible to be inspired by being in a bad situation.” So it’s been raising money for its legal fight, and it’s also working with the Freedom of the Press Foundation in the hopes of hiring reporters to “tell these stories of these chilling effects beyond our own.”
Acast says it’s time for podcasts to embrace programmatic advertising.
With its publishing and monetization tools, Acast has already moved beyond the generally low-tech state of podcast advertising — think of how many podcasts still play the same outdated ads when you download old episodes — but launching a marketplace for programmatic (i.e. automated algorithmic) ad-buying is the next step in that evolution.
The marketplace will be powered by technology from AdsWizz. Acast’s Chief Revenue Officer Ross Adams said that rather than making one-off ad deals, this will allow marketers to run campaigns across the company’s 1,400 shows with “all the usual kinds of targeting options” that you get with programmatic, including age, gender, location and interests.
 Adams is hoping the automation and targeting will attract brands that have been willing to advertise on digital music services like Spotify and iHeartRadio, but have stayed away from podcasts because of the limited technology. (Those limitations, he suggested, are why so many podcasts seem to be sponsored by the same handful of startups.)
As for Acast’s podcasters, Adams said many of them don’t have large enough audiences to either attract or make much money from custom sponsorships. With the programmatic marketplace, they don’t have to spend any time or resources dealing with advertising — the ads will just be placed automatically.
“Just release your show and know that you’re starting to build a revenue stream,” Adams said.

 JaaakWorks/iStock/Getty Images
Uber is in late-stage talks to acquire some technology and team members from Luxe, the on-demand car valet service, The Wall Street Journal and Recode first reported, citing sources. TechCrunch has since learned that the talks are indeed happening, but that the deal hasn’t closed and therefore could unravel.
The plan is for Uber to acquire some of Luxe’s technology and engineering talent, which had been working on a service related to short-term car rentals, according to the WSJ. Uber also has reportedly been interviewing engineers from Luxe to determine who to keep from the company, according to the WSJ.
Back in April, Luxe ended its door-to-door valet service, with CEO Curtis Lee saying that the company was changing directions. As part of the deal, however, Lee will reportedly not be joining Uber because he’s still going to work on some version of Luxe and retain the Luxe brand.
Luxe had previously raised more than $75 million, with its most recent round coming in at $50 million last April.
This deal comes at a time when Uber is embroiled in controversies around its self-driving car technology as well as its workplace culture. Within the last week, a judge denied Uber’s request for a stay in its lawsuit with Google’s Waymo, and the company fired more than 20 people as a result of its sexual harassment probe and then fired an executive who obtained the medical records of a woman who was raped during an Uber ride in India.
Uber declined to comment for this story.
Amazon Rekognition, Amazon’s deep learning-powered image detection and recognition service, is getting a little bit smarter today. The service can now recognize thousands of celebrities across a number of categories that include politics, sports, business, entertainment and media.
I tried it with a couple of random images I found on Google (ranging from Conan O’Brien to Justin Bieber and a few random actors and actresses in-between) and Rekognition got them all right. Like similar services from Google and Microsoft, developers use Rekognition by pinging an API, but if you have an AWS account, you also can try the demo here.
Whenever it’s available, Rekognition will also link to that celebrity’s IMDB page (which makes sense, given that the IMDB is an Amazon subsidiary).
This new feature complements existing Rekognition capabilities like being able to detect people’s emotions and demographics, facial recognition based on your own image sets and object and scene recognition.
It’s worth noting that Google’s Vision API doesn’t currently offer a similar celebrity recognition feature, but Microsoft’s Cognitive Services does. Microsoft says its version of this feature can recognize about 200,000 celebrities. In my tests, Microsoft’s service performed just as well as Amazon’s, but with the added benefits of being able to identify additional information about other objects in a scene and being able to create a caption based on this (think: “Justin Timberlake wearing a suit and tie smiling at the camera”).
Hype hasn’t been an issue for Andy Rubin’s new hardware startup, Essential. Speculation has been circling the Android founder’s next move since he unceremoniously parted ways with Google. 
Funding, it seems, hasn’t really been a problem, either. Bloomberg is reporting that the nascent smartphone maker has raised $300 million to bring its technology to the masses. 
A spokesperson for the company declined to offer TechCrunch a comment on the matter, though the report does seem to jibe with Rubin’s recent appearance onstage at the Code conference several days after the filing, where he told the crowd, “We’ve raised a substantial hundreds of millions of dollars.” Rubin then appeared to hold up three fingers, repeating with a smile, “Hundreds of millions of dollars that I can’t talk about.”
If true, the Series B, filed last month, puts the company’s value at a few hairs shy of a unicorn, at $993 million. That number comes from Equidate, a new firm that offers up valuations of private startups for investment firms. It tells TechCrunch that its own numbers were sourced from public filings.

This marks the second major round of funding for Essential, following a $30 million raise last year, led by Redpoint Ventures and Playground Global, Rubin’s own investment firm, which also helped incubate the startup. 
 Rubin had earlier reached out to SoftBank group as a potential source of outside funding. Its financing would have valued Essential at $1 billion, but the $100 million investment ultimately fell through, reportedly due in part to the Japanese firm’s investment with Apple.
The problem: Essential will be going head to head against the new iPhone with its own premium Android handset. And while Apple apparently didn’t block the deal, SoftBank is said to have backed away due to the nature of the competition. 
Essential’s second product, a smart home hub, will also be a direct competitor to Apple’s newly announced HomePod speaker.
While it’s clear that investors ranging from firms like Tencent to manufacturers like Foxconn have faith in Essential’s future, the company’s got a tough road ahead of it as it attempts to win over public interest in a pair of highly competitive spaces. Essential COO Niccolo de Masi acknowledged as much in a recent TechCrunch interview, outlining a 10-year plan filled with modest growth in sales and consumer loyalty and telling us, “We’ll delay maximizing profitability until the company is more mature because we’re building a brand here.”
Rubin’s name was enough to build up the hype cycle ahead of the phone’s launch. It remains to be seen how long that — and the funding will hold out.
The newest version of the Skype app takes a big hat-tip from social media platforms like Snapchat and Facebook’s Messenger with its newest features, adding a Stories-like feature called Highlights, a big selection of bots to add into chats and a longer plan to upgrade group conversations with more features. Now, as part of the effort to get people to use the new Skype more, the company is also doubling down on something else: Skype is trying to get users off of older versions of Skype.
As part of that push, the Microsoft-owned company has sent out messages to users this week noting that it will be retiring a host of older iterations on July 1. Those who are still using them after that day will likely no longer be able to sign on.
We at TechCrunch have had two versions of the notes, one listing apps for Windows Phone 8, Windows Phone 8.1, Messaging app for Windows 10 Mobile, Windows RT and TV; and one more generic note. You can read them in full at the bottom of this post.
We’ve asked, and a spokesperson has supplied us with the full list of apps that have been and are getting axed, as well as platforms being affected — 14 in all, including several of Skype’s efforts to build apps with carriers and its own phones; its TV app; older versions of Windows (including Windows Phone), Android, BlackBerry, Mac and iOS:

Android 4.0.2 and lower
BlackBerry OS 7.1 and lower
iOS 7 and lower
Linux (Linux users must upgrade to Skype for Linux Beta)
Mac OS X 10.8 and lower
Symbian OS
Skype mobile for Verizon
Skype on 3
Skype on Telkomsel
Skype on TV
Skype phones: All Skype phonesNote: Skype phones may still be available to purchase through third-party retailers, but are no longer supported
Windows 10 task-based app
Windows Phone 8.1 and lower
Windows RT

Note that this is something of a comprehensive list; some of these apps were discontinued quite a while ago, others a little more recently. However, it appears that if you had a device with one of these older apps installed, it would still work. Now, that no longer will be the case, it seems.
“Because we want everyone to experience the best Skype has to offer, it’s sometimes necessary to retire older versions of Skype, and Skype-enabled devices,” a Microsoft spokesperson said. “Unsupported Skype-enabled devices and platforms may experience problems with calls and chats, lost or dropped calls and instant messages, or could stop working completely.”
Skype, founded back in 2003, was a trailblazer for a subsequently huge onslaught of mobile apps that let people message and phone each other on mobile phones, bypassing carrier networks and their costly charges. Eventually, it was also one of the first of the disruptors that carriers started to work with, developing co-marketing plans and bundles to pick up more mobile subscriptions.
But the growing field of competition from the likes of WhatsApp, Messenger, Viber, WeChat, Snapchat, Kik and more has produced an ever-crowded market. Skype’s features were leapfrogged, and the platform itself also became a hotbed for spam and contacts you might prefer not to have. So while Skype has a long and popular legacy, many have moved on from using it as their default messaging and phoning app of choice.
We asked, but Skype did not provide us with updated user numbers — let alone any data about what platforms they are using, and thus just how many people might be affected by this latest spate of spring cleaning.
What we do know is that Skype is regularly one of the most popular free apps on iOS and Android, and Skype itself tells us there have been 2 trillion minutes of free Skype video calls since 2006, with 3 billion minutes of calls being made each day, and total Skype downloads now at over 1 billion.
A recent article in Wired about the new app update, featuring an interview with Microsoft’s corporate VP of Skype Amritansh Raghav, notes 300 million users — a figure we’ve seen quoted elsewhere and appears to be from last year. As a point of comparison, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger each have 1.2 billion users.
The two notes follow below:

We’ve noticed that you are, or previously were, using an older version of Skype that will be permanently retired. As a result, after Ju‍ly 1, 20‍17, you will no longer be able to sign in to these older versions of Skype. Recently updated or started using Skype on another device? Great, you can ignore this email.
To keep talking with your family and friends, please update Skype to the latest version. It only takes a few minutes and all your contacts and conversations will be right there when you sign in.
If you are unable to update, check our support site to see if Skype still supports your device and operating system. If it is no longer supported, you can still stay in touch with friends and family using Skype on other devices. The latest versions of Skype for all supported devices are available at https://www.skype.com/download. You can sign in using the same Skype account.

and
We’ve noticed that you are, or previously were, using Skype on Windows Phone 8, Windows Phone 8.1, Messaging app for Windows 10 Mobile, Windows RT or a TV. We’re sorry to inform you that we will be permanently retiring these versions of Skype. As a result, after Ju‍ly 1, 20‍17, you will no longer be able to sign in to these versions of Skype.
Mohammad Marashi
Contributor


Mohammad Marashi is vice president of Innovation & Service Architecture for Intelsat, the world’s largest satellite operator. He is responsible for developing the integrated technology roadmap for next-generation services, including those enabled by the Intelsat EpicNG satellite platform.


According to research firm Gartner, more than 20 billion connected things will be in use worldwide by 2020. From connected vehicles to connected homes, the Internet of Things (IoT) promises a host of benefits for industry and consumers.
But what communications technology is prepared to handle 20 billion connections — with some emanating from planes over oceans, a pipeline across desolate tundra or an oil platform in the North Sea?
No single technology or company can reach all the possible markets and customers — while handling the flood of connections required and mounds of data that will be captured.
Given the ubiquity of space-based communications, satellite technology will play a critical role in supporting the development of the IoT sector and realizing the full potential of interconnected devices.
This is why satellite operators are investing and collaborating to develop services and hardware that can enable IoT. At the same time, operators are making sure satellite-based solutions can be easily integrated into hybrid networks that combine fiber, wireless networks and satellite to best serve the IoT sector and customers at all levels.
Making satellite more accessible
For decades, the satellite has been playing a major role in supporting IoT development. Business operations that extend into remote areas rely on satellites to provide communications for facility monitoring and instantaneous asset management at unmanned sites and offshore platforms.
Now, NSR estimates that by 2023 there will be 5.8 million machine-to-machine (M2M) and IoT connections via satellite worldwide. Combined with new technologies that generate low cost-per-bit connectivity, the satellite industry is redefining the solutions it can provide to address the largest communications requirement our world has ever known.
Satellite-enabled IoT is currently dominated by narrowband providers, such as L-band. However, with the advent of high-throughput Ku-band and Ka-band satellite connections, the capabilities in orbit have created a broadband superhighway in space — easily handling the potential volume of opportunity in the IoT and M2M sectors.
The IoT cannot exist without the support of satellite companies.
To truly have a major impact, access to satellite services needs to be made easier than ever. In other words, ditch the dish in favor of electronic antennas and power-friendly modems to make installing and using satellite simpler for people and devices. This requires innovation throughout the satellite ecosystem, to facilitate access while complementing other technologies to enable hybrid solutions.
For example, the most progressive satellite operators have made strategic investments with meta-material-based antenna-technology providers. These partnerships will yield a range of antenna and terminal products no bigger than a laptop in size. They’ll serve application verticals such as mobility, content delivery and wireless backhaul.
In addition, a new model that combines the advantages of satellites in geostationary orbit with those offered by constellations of satellites in low-earth orbit will redefine satellite communications. These hybrid fleets will deliver broadband coverage of the polar regions. They also will be able to layer bandwidth for regions or applications with high-density traffic, as well as for critical applications where redundancy is required.
Broadcast capability for connected cars
Delivering bandwidth to the connected car market also represents a major opportunity for communications companies. We are just beginning to see this technology develop with cars on the road today using LTE cellular networks. However, the delivery systems that fully enable this sector will rely on hybrid connectivity featuring both satellite and terrestrial technologies.
The global nature of satellite systems and the ability to broadcast to multiple points is the most efficient signal delivery on earth. Satellite broadcasts can work seamlessly with terrestrial cell carriers to achieve global coverage and enable auto manufacturers to reach all of their vehicles on a single network.
This means the billions of dollars spent each year by car manufacturers to recall vehicles for software upgrades could be avoided. Instead, satellites will broadcast software updates to cars on a global basis. Broadcast capabilities give satellites a strategic advantage in delivering both operating and navigation software updates that will be essential as we move into the next decade.
Satellites also boast vastly superior cybersecurity, a major consideration when contemplating a future where software is the most important element of your car’s operations. It offers a consolidated distribution opportunity that reduces cyberattack vectors by eight or nine orders of magnitude, when compared to cellular in terms of entry and exit points.
Connectivity for autonomous vehicles
Terrestrial Wi-Fi and cellular networks support just a portion of the grid that will be required to allow fully autonomous vehicles to navigate city streets and highways. Satellite communications will play an important role in the connectivity and autonomy of intelligent cars.
An autonomous vehicle requires two different types of external signal connections. Functions of the car such as steering or braking that need information about other vehicles along a route must rely on terrestrial networks with virtually no signal latency, because of the time-sensitive nature of these interactions.
Other vehicle functions that need less time-sensitive information can rely on satellites as a medium of communications, because of the inherent attributes of ubiquity and broadcast for satellite technology. For example, satellites can multicast updates to cars concerning road conditions ahead, and local imaging of city streets and mapping of selected routes — without fear that a sudden peak in traffic on the wireless network slows or knocks out response times.
The IoT cannot exist without the support of satellite companies. The most forward-thinking satellite operators are now implementing initiatives to ensure that the IoT movement makes the best use of what satellite technology has to offer.
The augmented reality acquisition space is hot — Facebook, Snap, Apple and others are throwing money at teams and technologies that promise to increase user engagement. Spektral, a Danish startup, is the latest venture-backed visual effects company setting its sights on the massive space. Spektral is announcing a $2.8 million round today from Litecap and Amp Ventures to continue development of its machine learning-powered, real-time, green screen technology.
Spektral, unlike 99 percent of venture-backed startups doesn’t have a product or at least not in the traditional tech sense. Instead of spending time on a go-to-market, Spektral has been investing heavily in research and development and racking up patents. After first pursuing still frames under the name CloudCutout, the team is moving into real time video — combining machine learning with spectral graph theory to separate people and objects from their original backgrounds and overlay them in a new stream.

It’s quite easy to imagine this technology being implemented into Snapchat or Messenger, but just because it’s obvious doesn’t make it statistically likely. This is probably why Spektral is making the effort to show how its technology could be useful in other use cases, like production and advertising.
Other research groups have been exploring how machine learning could open up new design possibilities for separating objects from their backgrounds. Adobe, the Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign worked together to publish research on automating that process. That said, video and pictures are two entirely different monsters.
Hair strokes have long been a key criteria for judging cut outs. Toke Jansen, founder and CTO of Spektral, explained to me just how easy it is to underestimate the difficulty of cutting around hair. Equipped with scissors, a human can cut around complex shapes without thinking about it. But even with the latest deep learning models trained on over a million images, machines struggle.
Spektral, as the name implies, is experimenting with spectral clustering for image segmentation within a video frame. This additional information can be added in as a prior to augment more traditional models. In the future, this technology could pave the way for more complex video editing. The team alluded to object manipulation, perhaps moving your friends hand wave with your own, as a natural next step.
To get the company and its technology to the next phase, it’s brining on a number of domain experts. Most notably, Danny Lange, the head of machine learning at Unity, is joining the startup’s Board of Directors. Lange was formerly the leader of machine learning efforts at Uber.
Beauty parlors manage a lot of appointments, but about half of them are still using pen and paper, estimates Shedul.
The startup is trying to change that, by offering scheduling software for the the salon and spa industry. And it’s been catching on because it’s free.
Now they’re raising $6 million, led by Dubai’s Middle East Venture Partners (MEVP), with participation from BECO Capital and Lumia Capital.
They plan to use the funding to add more merchants to their platform and build out a two-sided marketplace. They also will be introducing some paid offerings to complement their booking technology.
With offices in Dubai and Warsaw, Shedul has an international presence, with 40,000 merchants in more than 120 countries. They say they’re bringing in $1.5 billion in annual GMV.
“Growth is almost 100 percent organic, pure word of mouth,” CEO William Zeqiri told TechCrunch. He says they spent just $5,000 on Google ads.
They aren’t just looking for salons still using pen and paper, they are also targeting customers of Mindbody, Booker and StyleSeat. The “customer experience has been very bad” on Mindbody, Zeqiri claimed.
Chris Rogers, partner at Lumia Capital, said they invested because Shedul “has made best-in-class software accessible to the massive beauty industry, which still largely operates offline. We are extremely impressed with the company’s growth trajectory and are delighted to invest in the team.”
Walid Mansour, managing partner at MEVP, said “the growth they achieved in two years is remarkable.”
Shedul launched in 2015 and previously raised seed funding from MEVP and Polar Light Ventures.
Erica Baker, an engineer and outspoken advocate for diversity and inclusion in tech, is leaving her job at Slack, and moving from the San Francisco Bay Area to Brooklyn to work in an engineering leadership position at Kickstarter. Baker, who worked at Slack for about two years, will begin work at Kickstarter in early August as director of engineering, working under the newly appointed VP of engineering Lara Hogan.
Baker’s last day at Slack is June 16.
“It has less to do with the company and more to do with opportunities for personal career growth,” Baker told me about why she is leaving. “There’s nothing wrong with the company. Slack is growing at an amazing pace and it’s fastest rising startup and everything. There’s just so much happening at Slack and I think that they’re going to have a lot of success in the future. I’m leaving because I got an amazing opportunity at Kickstarter. I’ve wanted to move into an engineering leadership role for a long time.”
It’s not that Baker could not have reached a leadership position at Slack, she said, but it’s that it would not have been an immediate option.
“I think it would’ve been an option in the long run,” she said. “It would have been available to me a year or two down the line, just because of the way things are happening at Slack right now. They’re coming to the end of fleshing out what it means to be a leader. There’s a lot of important work there that I’ve been a part of, but I’ve also made a vow to myself that I would keep growing and my growth is taking me to be at Kickstarter.”
Baker will be joining a company with many women in leadership roles, noting how Kickstarter’s VP of product is a woman, as well its SVP of operations and VP of engineering.
“I’m really excited to be working with [Hogan] and working at Kickstarter just because I’m going to be reporting to a woman who is a VP of engineering,” Baker said. “That’s pretty rare, so I’m really excited about that opportunity. There’s a lot of lady power happening. It’s a diverse group of ladies. It’s not a homogenous group of ladies.”
Women, and especially women of color, in leadership roles at tech companies is indeed pretty rare. At Slack, for example, black people make up 3.5 percent of those in leadership roles and women make up 28.3 percent of people in leadership roles, according to the company’s most recent diversity report.
Kickstarter, on the other hand, has yet to release an official diversity report, though it has released some demographic data. As of last year, Kickstarter was 70 percent white. With Baker coming on board, it sounds like an official diversity report will come.
“I feel like that is something that will be one of the first things I work on,” Baker said. “I think it’s important companies are vocal about what their diversity looks like internally and sort of set goals around what they want that to look like. That will be something that I work on. It will be one of my top priorities.”
Although diversity and inclusion will not be an official part of Baker’s role at Kickstarter, she said that she would not take a role where diversity could not be part of what she works on.
“I am not going to have as much time to be as hands-on, because I would not want to do that to the people I support,” she said. “My job will be to make sure they can succeed and that the company succeeds. At the same time, part of that success is making sure Kickstarter is a diverse and inclusive place for people to come work.”
Jason Rowley
Contributor



Jason Rowley is a venture capital and technology reporter for Crunchbase News. 

			More posts by this contributor:			
Advertising giants leave little room for adtech startups, and VCs are noticing
Here’s how likely your startup is to get acquired at any stage



For most of the history of blockchain-based currencies and assets, the story has been all about Bitcoin. At a market capitalization of around $40 billion, it remains the most valuable cryptocurrency.
But with the rise of a new ‘chain on the — ahem — block, namely Ethereum, and new ways to fund the development of new crypto-platforms with ICOs, the narrative is shifting somewhat to the entire cryptographic asset class.
Today, let’s take a more in-depth look at some of the historical trends in the digital currency space, paying close attention to Ethereum and its role as the platform of choice for new cryptographic assets.
The number of new digital assets is on the rise
In roughly the past 12 months, the number of cryptocurrencies listed on CoinMarketCap.com, a main reference site for digital asset developers and speculators alike, has increased significantly.
Below is a chart compiled from the count of cryptocurrencies listed on historic snapshots of the site’s main table starting with the first snapshot on April 28, 2013 (featuring a whopping seven cryptocurrencies) and the most recent snapshot from June 4, 2017.

As of the June 4 snapshot, there were 809 cryptocurrencies and other digital assets listed on the main CoinMarketCap page. As of Monday, June 5, 2017, at around 6:00 PM Central time, there were 857 cryptocurrencies and assets listed on the site.
Between January 3, 2016 — the first snapshot of 2016 — and June 5, 2017, the number of cryptographic assets listed on CoinMarketCap grew from 551 to 857, an increase of about 56 percent in almost exactly 18 months.
As the chart shows, the pace of growth in the number of crypto-backed assets is itself growing. Based only on the listings on CoinMarketCap, 80 percent of the growth in the number of cryptographic assets over the past 18 months took place since January 1, 2017.
The open-source nature of most cryptocurrency systems means that it’s trivially easy to make copies of the software (or “fork” its code, in developer parlance), make some modifications to the protocol and release it as a new, wholly separate system.
As Bitcoin’s price began to increase rapidly in the latter half of 2013, the aspiring Satoshi Nakamotos of the world began forking various cryptocurrency protocols to establish their own coins. By 2013, most of the forks were off of Litecoin, which is based on Scrypt.
With Bitcoin’s price spike at the end of 2013, it had become inefficient to mine Bitcoin on commodity hardware (like graphics cards) because the arms race in the Bitcoin ecosystem produced a new breed of specialized hardware.
Scrypt, at the time, was still economical to hash on graphics cards, and as Litecoin and a few other Scrypt-based currencies began to appreciate in value, wholly separate cryptocurrencies were forked off of the original protocols to rise anew. Remember the goofy, meme-based Dogecoin? That was a fork of Litecoin. And in case you’re interested in looking at the “family tree” of cryptocurrencies, MapOfCoins.com produced some really interesting data visualizations.
The goal was to create cryptocurrencies as valuable, or at least as lucrative, in the short-run, as Bitcoin. This somewhat haphazard approach of throwing cryptocurrencies against the proverbial wall and hoping that something sticks was certainly effective at expanding the scope of blockchain-based currency systems; however, that alone doesn’t explain the appreciating value of the asset class as a whole.
ICOs: The newest new thing
If the forkable, derivative-by-design nature of cryptocurrencies explains the breadth of the ecosystem, what explains the growth in value?
Part of it is surely market speculation, and another part of it is that cryptocurrencies and other blockchain-based assets do have real-world applications today.
But another part comes from cryptocurrency entrepreneurs wising up to the fact that their little upstart protocols, in order to be valuable, needed to have an ecosystem built around them. That, of course, takes time and money.
There are two ways of approaching this. Previously, it’s been common practice for cryptocurrency developers to pre-allocate a certain amount of their new cryptocurrency to self-fund development. Once their new cryptocurrency hit an exchange, and thus had a price, this private stash of coins would then have value, enough to sell for Bitcoin or fiat, which could then sustain a project until the ecosystem of wallets and services around their cryptocurrency became self-sustaining and community-driven.
Today, though, the fundraising mechanism of choice appears to be the initial coin offering. As Alex Wilhelm explained in an article for TechCrunch:
“An ICO is a fundraising tool that trades future cryptocoins in exchange for cryptocurrencies of immediate, liquid value. You give the ICO bitcoin or ethereum, and you get some of Billy’s New Super Great Coin.”
This is how Ethereum’s development was funded, by way of a pre-sale of Ether for Bitcoin in July 2014. That pre-sale — an ICO by another name — raised some 31,591 BTC, valued at more than $18.4 million at the time.
Although the mechanics of ICOs have been in practice for several years, the name and label for initial coin offering events has only gained some currency recently. And the ICO market has really hit a hockey-stick growth trajectory.

Based on data obtained on June 2 from the ICO Calendar on TokenMarket.net, the total number of ICOs listed on the site increased sixfold between March and May of this year.
But what’s fueling this massive growth in ICOs? Chances are, it’s similar to what drove the massive growth in the number of cryptocurrencies in the market back in 2013.
Back then, early speculators in Bitcoin, flush with newfound crypto-fortune, plunged their money back into emerging cryptocurrencies. This was done partially for fun (see Dogecoin and other novelties) but also to chase the same kind of returns they enjoyed from Bitcoin investments.
A recent article from CryptoHustle suggests there might be a similar mechanism at play today, but it’s not Bitcoin millionaires fueling this ICO boom/bubble. Instead, CryptoHustle explains that “[t]he ICO mania is likely due to early Ethereum adopters making serious returns after the last bull run.”
It’s blockchains all the way down
For now, that bull run has continued unabated. Last week was the first time that Ethereum’s market capitalization reached half that of Bitcoin’s, a massive milestone for the relatively new blockchain.

What explains the price increase? Speculation and other factors are no doubt at play here too, but it’s likely the architecture behind Ethereum’s blockchain system that makes it uniquely valuable, or at least uniquely flexible and extensible.
Bitcoin is a relatively bare-bones blockchain system that requires layers of protocols to be built on top of it to make it a usable platform for utilities like smart contracts. Platforms like Counterparty and Omni are both built on the Bitcoin blockchain and have sprouted their own collection of digital assets and services that ride on top of them.
Ethereum, on the other hand, was launched with its own scripting language baked in, making it possible to build complex smart contracts, decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs), decentralized autonomous apps (DApps) and even other cryptocurrencies with relative ease.
This ease of development, combined with the rising price of Ether and a desire by early stakeholders to re-invest in the Ethereum ecosystem, has made Ethereum the platform of choice for crypto-asset entrepreneurs — at least for now.
Based on the same data extracted from TokenMarket we looked at earlier, we charted the proportional share of Ethereum-based assets versus all other assets that have either ICO’d already or soon will.

From zero percent of the monthly asset offerings less than a year ago, to more than half of all the closed or announced ICO events tracked on that page, the growth of Ethereum is impressive.
Ethereum’s flexible, extensible blockchain system makes it relatively easy for developers to build and launch their own DApps, DAOs and crypto-assets. But ease-of-use is not sufficient to explain Ethereum’s growing traction in the new digital assets space. It’s where a disproportionate amount of the money is, too.
For these final charts, we extracted the rows from CoinMarketCap’s listing of digital assets. The table lists names, blockchain platforms, market capitalizations and prices of some 119 assets.
Although roughly a third of the assets listed were built on Ethereum, just over three-quarters of the market value of all of these assets is tied up in assets built on top of the Ethereum platform.




At the time of writing, there’s approximately $3.4 billion in market value represented by the 119 crypto-assets listed on CoinMarketCap’s digital assets page. Of that, around $2.6 billion is tied up in assets based on Ethereum.
Just the top four Ethereum-based assets — Golem, Augur, Basic Attention Tokens and Gnosis — represent $1.27 billion in market value. This is roughly half of all the value attached to Ethereum-based assets and more than a third of all the market value of crypto-backed assets and tokens in general.
The value of crypto-assets listed on CoinMarketCap is divided between those built on Omni and those built on Counterparty. Ethereum is the platform of choice because it offers a blockchain platform with a built-in abstraction layer, which serves to unify the ecosystem.
Ethereum offers the tantalizing promise of one chain to rule them all, or at least one chain to act as the foundation. Ether traders, entrepreneurs and developers alike are keen to let a thousand tokens, DApps and DAOs bloom because, although each of these assets is distinct, their roots run deep and ultimately back to Ethereum.





 Li-Anne Dias
Pandora today is rolling out a new feature to its Premium tier that will allow subscribers to continue to listen to music, uninterrupted, when their current track, album or playlist ends. Called, simply, “AutoPlay,” the feature works by shifting users to a personalized radio station based on whatever it is you were listening to before.
AutoPlay — a feature carried over from Rdio, which was bought by Pandora in 2015 for $75 million — was said to be in the works when Pandora first launched its Spotify competitor in March of this year.
It’s now available to both iOS and Android users, and can be toggled on while listening to music or managed from the app’s Settings.
Pandora says the feature could be particularly useful in certain scenarios — like when you’re working out at the gym and don’t have time to fiddle with your music, or when you’re hosting a party but don’t want to stop your conversations to play DJ, for example.
But as Variety notes, AutoPlay has another advantage, as well. Because radio streaming has different rights associated with it compared with on-demand listening, Pandora can leverage the new feature to work around the problem with music exclusives that launch on rivals like Apple Music, Tidal or Spotify.
For example, the report said, Taylor Swift’s “1989” album can only be listened to on demand on Apple Music, while Pandora users can only play her prior album “Red” on demand. But if they switch on AutoPlay, when “Red” ends, it’s likely that Pandora will start mixing in tracks from “1989” — which it is able to play through its radio service.
The news of AutoPlay’s launch arrives alongside other news related to Pandora’s agreement with private equity firm KKR. In May, KKR had agreed to buy $150 million in Series A preferred Pandora shares in a month’s time, and be paid a 7.5 percent or 8 percent quarterly dividend, while also taking a board seat. The cash was intended to help Pandora regain its footing in today’s music market, which now heavily favors newer, on-demand services.
However, while that investment is cleared to close, Pandora announced today that it and KKR have agreed to an extension of their earlier agreement. The extension will allow Pandora to instead explore interest expressed by a “strategic investor” who wants to make a “substantial minority investment in the company,” a brief announcement from Pandora explains.
That investor is Sirius XM, according to both Reuters and CNBC sources, though Pandora hasn’t confirmed.
Sirius XM had previously been negotiating with Pandora to acquire the company in its entirety, but couldn’t get a deal done due to disagreements over price, the reports say. It’s unclear for now what Sirius XM’s terms for this new investment would be, or if the deal will go through.
But because Pandora passed its June 8 deadline for finding a buyer or taking the funds from KKR, Pandora’s stock tanked today, hitting its lowest point in more than a year. The sell-off could make Pandora more of an acquisition target.
While the drama surrounding Pandora’s future continues, the company did today release numbers that seem to indicate those testing Pandora’s Premium tier are at least enjoying its features.
According to Pandora, nearly 60 percent of trials are from those under the age of 35, and their favorite feature is the personalized “My Thumbs Up” playlist. As their trials continue, users launch Pandora more often — over half listen more than six days per week, and listening hours increase more than 30 percent during their trial.
In addition, 97 percent of Premium users are listening to a playlist Pandora created for them via “My Thumbs Up” or “Linked” playlists, and listeners have kept 86 percent of songs from the “Add Similar Songs” feature on their playlists, Pandora says.
Plus, as Barron’s noted, Pandora CEO Tim Westergren said at a music conference Tuesday that Pandora accounts for 40 percent of music listening on Amazon Echo and 50 percent on Sonos speakers.
If you’re a child of the ’80s or ’90s, you probably remember QVC or the Home Shopping Network. Before every retailer had a website, and before Amazon became the “everything store,” people who wanted to shop without leaving the house would turn to one of those cable channels for programming designed to sell products to them.
Today there is no shortage of ways to buy products online, but there aren’t a lot of great channels for discovering new goods that consumers might not know about. And while there’s lots of video content for tech enthusiasts interested in learning about all the newest gadgets available for sale, those videos are fragmented and hard to find online.
With all that in mind, a team incubated out of venture firm Kleiner Perkins has created Packagd, which is building a series of mobile apps that combine unboxing and review videos with the ability to instantly purchase the products they talk about.
The Packagd team
Packagd was founded by KPCB general partner Eric Feng, a serial entrepreneur who has also served as CTO of companies like Hulu and Flipboard. His firm put up the initial $1.5 million to get Packagd off the ground, and the company has raised a $6 million Series A round led by Forerunner Ventures and GV.
The first app the company is releasing is called Unboxed, which is available on the Apple App Store and designed to appeal to those interested in learning about new tech products.
The app curates a wide array of unboxing and product review videos that creators have uploaded to YouTube and puts them together in a way that simulates the same type of live video programming pioneered by the likes of QVC in the ’80s. At launch, the company will have six hours of live programming that viewers can tune into, as well as replays available for those who aren’t able to tune in live.
To help with its programming and curation of the videos, Packagd has tapped a series of hosts that interact with users and viewers, answering questions and providing feedback to those making comments. It’s tapped a series of popular unboxing and product review stars on YouTube, with millions of followers on social media, to lead discussions that happen within the app.
But the key to Unboxed is combining discovery of new products or the ability to learn more about them, and providing viewers with the ability to buy products directly within the app. Through its partnership with Best Buy, Packagd allows users to make one-click purchases using Apple Pay.
GV general partner MG Siegler’s interest in Packagd was driven in part by the idea of online influencers driving purchase intent, combined with an easy click-to-buy checkout process.
“The core thesis [behind Packagd] has worked in the past on TV… The question is, can it translate now to do it on mobile?,” Siegler told me. “Given the expertise around the table on product development, I think there’s a good combination of people who know how to build a compelling user-facing product.”
It’s important to note that Packagd doesn’t plan to focus only on gadgets and other tech products — in fact, the company expects to release a second app with the same basic functions focused around the beauty and fashion industry in the coming months. A third app for toys could follow later in the year.
In any case, the ability to create a new channel for selling products was part of the appeal for Forerunner’s Kirsten Green, who has invested in e-commerce companies like Dollar Shave Club, Jet.com, Birchbox, Bonobos and Warby Parker.
“The common thread between any investment we’ve made and this investment is what’s motivating someone to part with their dollars,” Green said.
That said, she recognizes the difficulty in creating a new channel like Packagd. “It’s difficult to build a media platform and a shopping platform at the same time,” she said. The good news is that Packagd has at least partially de-risked the content side of things by relying on existing YouTube videos for much of its content.
As for how everyone makes money: Creators whose videos are featured on Packagd will still get counts for their video views and will continue to receive related advertising revenue from YouTube. Hosts and live moderators will receive affiliate revenue for sales that take place within the app while their programming is running live. And finally, Packagd itself sees the opportunity to sell time to brands and the companies making products themselves as part of its programming.
But will consumers be interested? QVC is still making billions in revenue per year, but clearly the audience tuning into QVC today is probably not the same group that will be watching hours of unboxing videos on Unboxed.
The question isn’t whether people are interested in this content, as unboxing videos are some of the most popular content on YouTube. The question is how closely the interest in watching these videos is tied to purchase intent, and if bringing those things together can create a new purchase model on mobile. It’s an interesting experiment, and one we’ll be watching closely.
Every minute spent training a deep learning model is a minute not doing something else, and in today’s fast-paced world of research, that minute is worth a lot. Facebook published a paper this morning detailing its personal approach to this problem. The company says it has managed to reduce the training time of a ResNet-50 deep learning model on ImageNet from 29 hours to one.
Facebook managed to reduce training time so dramatically by distributing training in larger “minibatches” across a greater number of GPUs. In the previous benchmark case, batches of 256 images were spread across eight GPUs. But today’s work involves batch sizes of 8,192 images distributed across 256 GPUs.
Most people don’t have 256 GPUs lying around, but big tech companies and well-funded research groups do. Being able to scale training across so many GPUs to reduce training time, without a dramatic loss in accuracy, is a big deal.
The team slowed down learning rates at the beginning stages of the training process to overcome some of the difficulties that made large batch sizes previously infeasible. Without getting too lost in the details, stochastic gradient descent is used to train the ResNet-50 model.
One of the key variables in stochastic gradient descent is the learning rate — the degree by which weights change during the training process. The way this variable changes as minibatch size changes is the key to optimizing effectively.
Machine learning developers spend their days dealing with compromises. Greater accuracy often requires larger data sets that demand additional training time and compute resources. In this vein, it would be possible to prioritize accuracy or speed to achieve more impressive results, but training a model with poor accuracy in 20 seconds isn’t super valuable.
Unlike most research projects, Facebook’s AI Research (FAIR) and Applied Machine Learning (AML) teams worked side by side on increasing minibatch sizes. From here the groups plan to investigate some of the additional questions generated from today’s work.
“This work throws out more questions than it answers,” said Pieter Noordhuis, a member of Facebook’s AML team. “There’s a tipping point beyond 8,000 images where error rates go up again and we don’t know why.”
Facebook used Caffe2, its open source deep learning framework, and its Big Basin GPU servers for this experiment. Additional information from Facebook is available here if you want to dig more deeply into the details.

 Toast and Jam Films
Yubico, the company behind the increasingly popular YubiKey two-factor authentication key, has raised a $30 million funding round. This marks the first major institutional funding round for Yubico, which had previously only raised $4.5 million from angel investors.
New investors include New Enterprise Associates, the Valley Fund and Bure, a major growth equity firm from Sweden.
Existing angel investors include the likes of Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff and Yubico chairman Ram Shriram. The team notes that half of the company is still owned by the founders and team (which is something few companies announce when they receive new funding).
The company says it plans to use the new funding on product development and to expand its team. Specifically, Yubico plans to expand beyond authentication. “With limited angel funding we have built a solid security hardware platform, co-created a new global authentication standard, and won the world’s largest Internet companies as our customers,” Yubico CEO and Founder Stina Ehrensvard told me. “Now is the time to scale our product development team, and expand with more advanced software and services, including for IoT, payments and server encryption.”
Yubico currently has offices in Sweden, the U.K., Germany, the United States, Australia and Singapore.
“With nine of the top ten internet companies as YubiKey users, Yubico has built a strong foundation as an innovator of new global authentication standards,” said Pete Sonsini, general partner, NEA, in today’s announcement. “In a time when software does not offer sufficient protection for online accounts and sensitive data on servers, Yubico’s hardware backed keys are proven at scale.”
Over the course of the last few years, Yubico managed to turn its hardware keys into something akin to a de facto standard for users who want to add an extra level of security to their online accounts. To get to this point, Yubico partnered with many of the largest online service providers, and its current list of partners that support its keys include Facebook, Google, GitHub, SalesForce, Atlassian, Dropbox, Dashlane, Docker and a few dozen others. With the YubiHSM, the company also offers a security module for protecting servers.
Today, the former FBI director who ran afoul of President Trump appeared before the Senate Intelligence Committee in its ongoing investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. It was James Comey’s first appearance since he was fired from his role as the director of the FBI.
Providing a useful framework for the hearing, Comey issued a written opening statement a day before his testimony, laying out the facts of his meetings with President Trump and a timeline of those events. Comey’s collected, at times self-deprecating, style and his talent at composing his thoughts clearly under pressure means that the hearing was strewn with small, remarkable moments.
Here are some highlights from today’s open hearing:

“It confused me when I saw on television that the president said he actually fired me because of the Russia investigation,” Comey said of Trump’s motives for his termination.
After being fired by Trump, Comey himself leaked his memo about his dinner with Trump to the press through Daniel Richman, a friend at Columbia University. Comey noted that he wanted to create interest in a special counsel.
“Lordy, I hope there are tapes,” Comey said of the possibility that Trump recorded their interactions.
On his decision to keep detailed notes on each meeting with the president: “I was honestly concerned that he might lie about the nature of the meeting.”
Asked if the president’s actions amount to obstruction of justice: “I don’t know. That’s Bob Mueller’s job to sort that out.” After Comey’s firing, Mueller was named to a special counsel role in which he will investigate the possible connection between the Trump campaign and Russia.
Comey felt “queasy” when former Attorney General Loretta Lynch directed him to call the email investigation into Hillary Clinton a “matter” instead of an investigation.
In response to the question “Do you believe Donald Trump colluded with Russia?” Comey says that he should not answer that question in a hearing open to the public, though clarifies he didn’t mean to imply anything “nefarious.”
Comey suggested that Vice President Pence was aware of concerns around former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn.
Comey will provide his notes and memos to the Senate committee.
Some lines of questioning suggested that Jeff Sessions may have acted improperly if he was involved in Comey’s termination after recusing himself from matters around Russia.
Comey revealed that he had expressed his concerns about Trump to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. Rosenstein, who was aware that Comey was about to be fired, authored the memo that the White House used in the firing.
Comey again stressed the gravity of Russia’s involvement in the U.S. political process, calling it “about as un-fake” as it gets.
Comey declined to answer a number of questions in a hearing open to the public, and presumably will save many of those answers for the closed session to follow.

While these revelations are noteworthy, Comey spent the bulk of his time laying out his timeline of events and dismissing some of President Trump’s claims as “lies, plain and simple.” Coming from a former director of the FBI with a distinguished career and bipartisan respect, that alone might be the most remarkable takeaway from Comey’s historic testimony.

 Drew Angerer/Getty Images
Following allegations of the now-defunct job search startup WrkRiot scamming employees out of wages and its CEO Isaac Choi of misleading former employees about his credentials, the U.S. Department of Justice has announced that Choi has been indicted on charges of five counts of wire fraud.
Choi allegedly lured several of WrkRiot’s former employees to work for him based on “false and misleading statements about his educational, professional and financial background, and by allegedly enticing them to continue working for his company by providing them with forged documents purportedly reflecting payments for unpaid stories,” the Department of Justice wrote in its announcement.
The indictment alleges that Choi lied about his degree from business school and his time spent working as an analyst at a major financial institution, and lied that he was financially well-off and was investing his personal wealth into the company. After employees found out that WrkRiot’s bank accounts didn’t have the money Choi said he had invested, Choi lied and said that a lot of the money he said he would invest was tied up in accounts overseas, the indictment alleges.
Last August, the startup made its Facebook page private after former employee Penny Kim accused the company of scamming her out of wages and then firing her in retaliation. That month, Choi had allegedly sent emails to WrkRiot’s employees saying their salaries were on the way, and attached documents that appeared to show he had made wire transfers to their accounts.
“In reality, as alleged in the indictment, Choi sent forged wire transfer confirmations in order to induce WrkRiot employees to continue working for the company without being paid,” the DOJ’s announcement says.
As noted in the announcement, an indictment is simply an allegation, and Choi is presumed innocent until proven otherwise.

 Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
The next version of Apple’s iOS operating system, iOS 11, is going to make it easier for you to log into your apps. The new mobile operating system’s software will introduce a new feature called “Password AutoFill for Apps,” which will offer easy access to your passwords right from the iOS keyboard when you’re on an app’s login screen.
Password AutoFill was actually one of many new features teased onstage during Apple’s WWDC 2017 keynote address this week. A slide was briefly shown detailing iOS 11’s many other additions that the company wouldn’t have time to detail during its presentation.

Image credit, above: The Verge
Plus, “Introducing Password AutoFill for Apps” was the name of a session hosted at Apple’s developer conference this week:


I’m really looking forward to telling y’all about Password AutoFill tomorrow. Please note the new location.
Come! Say hi after! pic.twitter.com/d0D1vnddbL
— Ricky Mondello (@rmondello) June 7, 2017



Essentially, Password AutoFill for Apps works a lot like Password AutoFill in Safari does today. That is, it provides you with a way to tap into the passwords saved in your iCloud Keychain.
Logging into apps, as Apple notes, is a source of friction for many users. We’re supposed to use complex passwords, change them frequently and not store them in unsecured places — like an Excel spreadsheet or note, for example. But it’s also difficult to remember which passwords we need to gain access to which resources if we don’t write them down somewhere.
Password managers like 1Password, LastPass and Dashlane have become valuable tools over the years, as our database of passwords grew along with their complexity requirements. These tools work around many problems associated with using passwords, offering desktop software, apps and extensions that allow you to securely save and, at times, even automate your logins to your favorite services.
Apple, too, had introduced its own password autofill feature for third-party apps a few years ago, but developers had to enable the feature themselves — and few did. That option allowed iOS apps to tap into Safari’s AutoFill & Passwords feature, but developers had to first associate their apps with their websites for this to work.
The new PassWord AutoFill for Apps in iOS 11 will no longer rely on that same level of developer adoption — though it may still require some tweaks. Largely, however,  iOS 11 itself will figure out which credentials to display in the app based on those users already have saved.
Like the earlier iteration, the new feature will tap into the passwords saved in iCloud keychain — which syncs the passwords you’ve saved in Safari across all your Apple devices, including iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Mac.

Image credit, above: taj693 on Reddit
The option to use the saved password will appear in the app in the QuickType bar appearing above the iOS keyboard, as you can see (above) in this screenshot posted to Reddit.
However, it appears that the bar will not just say “Password,” as that image on Reddit shows, but will also include the website name and username you use on that site, as saved in iCloud Keychain. A key icon will also appear on the right side of this bar.
You can see better examples of the functionality posted to Twitter, the first of which was pulled directly from this week’s WWDC session.


I wonder @Apple's iOS 11 password AutoFill is such a clever and secure thing. #301 #HTTP pic.twitter.com/HdoO6EMyz9
— m33x (@m33x) June 8, 2017



— سليمة (@salimahsn) June 8, 2017



According to iOS 11 beta testers on Reddit, the feature is already working in top apps like Facebook, Twitter and Snapchat.
However, one thing it’s not doing — at least, not yet — is working with your preferred third-party password management apps. It only works with Keychain for now, we’re told.
“Password autofill in iOS 11 does not tap into the information stored in 1Password,” the company confirmed to us, when we asked.
But 1Password did note their extension that’s integrated into many apps will continue to function. 1Password also says it’s experimenting with other iOS features, like “drag and drop,” to make using its software even better.
This, in fact, is a clever workaround for the lack of third-party support with Password AutoFill for Apps. As you can see in the video the company shared on Twitter, 1Password takes advantage of split screen mode on iPad and drag and drop to let users drag their username and password from its 1Password to the login screen in the app. Nifty!


My developers are having a ball playing with the new stuff announced at #WWDC17 this week. Thanks Apple! ❤️ pic.twitter.com/LLe4BMrsev
— 1Password (@1Password) June 6, 2017



Dashlane also notes that Apple’s new password-filling feature for apps isn’t open to them — something that’s not the case on Android.
“No, unfortunately, [the feature] won’t be open to third-party password apps like Dashlane, yet; which ultimately limits the choice and experience of Apple’s consumers,” explains Dashlane CEO Emmanuel Schalit. “Open architecture, like Google/Android, has allowed third-party password managers and other apps to integrate and thus enhance users’ security and convenience,” he says.
At Google’s developer conference last month, Dashlane had said it would work with Google on autofill API for apps, Schalit notes.
“Because Apple’s keychain has similar functionality in the sense that it stores credentials, we expect them to eventually open their platform to third-party password managers and the massive cross-platform convenience and security advantages that come with them,” Schalit adds.
Dashlane’s co-founder and VP of Product, Alexis Fogel, points out that it wouldn’t be unprecedented for Apple to limit access to a new feature like this at launch.
“Apple is known to first try new things with system first before opening it. It happened with Touch ID, for instance — that could be used at the beginning only to unlock the phone or with Siri. That is progressively being opened to developers,” he says.
The introduction of Password AutoFill for Apps also comes at a time when Apple is diminishing Facebook and Twitter’s role in its ecosystem. Axios recently confirmed that integration with these social services is being removed from iOS 11.
That means apps — many of which use Facebook and Twitter for their logins — will no longer have access to users’ signed-in accounts. This, to some extent, may force developers’ hands in adopting the new AutoFill for Apps feature. And that, in turn, will further lock consumers into Apple’s ecosystem by making it more difficult to switch to another platform, as all their credentials would be saved in Apple’s cloud.
Image credit, top: Sensor Tower
Yahoo’s shareholders have approved the sale of Yahoo’s operating business to Verizon in a vote held today and confirmed in a press release sent out following the meeting.
The company’s stockholders also voted to approve the advisory vote on the compensation payable to Yahoo’s named executive officers in connection with the completion of the transaction.
The final voting results for each of the proposals will be reported on a Current Report on Form 8-K, in accordance with the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Yahoo said.
It added that it anticipates the transaction will close on June 13, 2017.
In February, $350 million was knocked off the agreed sale price, bringing it down to $4.48 billion, after Yahoo disclosed two massive data breaches (affecting some 500 million accounts and 1 billion accounts, respectively).
Verizon-owned AOL’s CEO, Tim Armstrong, has explained the rationale for the Yahoo acquisition being one of combined scale — aka the 1 billion users that Yahoo still reaches being put toward helping AOL reach its goal of 2 billion users, which is in turn about seeking to compete in the digital ad stakes with giants Facebook and Google.
The combined AOL-Yahoo entity has already been christened Oath, at least for B2B go-to-market purposes, i.e. for Verizon to pitch its various brands to others.
Earlier today we reported that AOL-Yahoo will see job cuts of around 15 percent globally as part of the merger — shaking out to around 2,100 job losses across the two businesses.
Following closure of the sale of Yahoo’s operating business to Verizon, and as previously announced, the remainder of Yahoo will change its name to Altaba Inc., and register as an investment company — holding onto its 15 percent stake in Alibaba and its 35.5 per cent stake in Yahoo Japan.
NB: Verizon is also the parent of AOL, TechCrunch’s parent company. 

 Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
Some consolidation is afoot in the world of virtual reality. MindMaze, a startup based out of Switzerland that has been building a VR platform to map and respond to brain activity for applications in healthcare and other fields, is making its first acquisition: Gait Up, a developer of motion analytics used in smart watches and other hardware.
Terms of the deal are not being disclosed, MindMaze’s CEO and founder Tej Tadi said in an interview. Gait Up was bootstrapped and generating revenue and had an interesting list of customers and partners, including Logitech, the Swatch group, Hitachi, Philips, Salomon, PIQ, BNP Paribas group, Jaguar Land Rover and Pomoca.
The company’s 10 or so employees will be joining MindMaze as part of the deal, and Gait Up will continue to serve its existing customers for the rest of this year before gradually working to integrate its tech with that of MindMaze’s to expand its platform to bring in more diagnostics and data.
“From the research we began 15 years ago, our vision has been to change the way we measure and make sense of human motion,” said Benoit Mariani, CEO and co-founder of Gait Up in a statement. “Adding our motion tracking technology to MindMaze’s suite of solutions creates exciting new possibilities for industries far beyond our healthcare roots.”
The acquisition comes at a time when MindMaze has seen some interesting developments of its own. Earlier this year, the company received FDA approval in the U.S. so that it can start to sell its technology to healthcare organizations in that country.
It has also completed work on new hardware, a piece of foam that lines a VR headset with sensors to pick up your facial expressions and translate them directly to your avatar on the screen.
And, we have discovered that MindMaze is in the process of raising a new round of funding for its next phase of development. That round will be at least as big as its previous round — MindMaze notably raised $100 million in February 2016 — and possibly more, I understand.
Tadi tells me that he had his eye on Gait Up for a while before making the acquisition: both companies are based out of Lausanne and he had been watching it build its technology gradually and acquire customers before making a move.
Gait Up’s founding followed a route that you see many of the most interesting startups in areas like AI and machine learning take in Switzerland: as an offshoot of academic work. In its case, it was started as a joint venture between the University Hospital of Lausanne and the Swiss Institute of Technology of Lausanne, and has the academic cred to prove it with some 358 articles published in academic journals and with several patents locked down on top of that.
Similar to MindMaze, Gait Up had an ambition to build both a software platform coupled with hardware developments, in its case, in the area of analyzing human movement in very precise increments using inertial sensors, or systems that combine a mix of computers, motion sensors like accelerometers and rotation sensors to calculate movement without the need for external references.
Inertial sensors are often used in ships, cars and other vehicles, and while that points to areas where MindMaze might hope to apply the tech itself, it’s also notable that Gait Up’s marquee product, the Droplet motion sensor, is the smallest inertial sensor ever made, making it a good fit for human movement and plans that MindMaze may have for its own product roadmap in headsets and other wearables and hand-held devices.
“For VR/AR to achieve mainstream adoption, having an immersive user experience powered by mobile devices is essential; we’ve solved one of the most complex aspects of virtual immersion, human emotion, when we launched MASK in early 2017,” observed Tadi. “Now with Gait Up’s unrivaled motion analysis technology, we’ll transport human movement in all its dynamic range to virtual worlds.”
Earlier this year, Facebook announced it would allow publishers to include more ads in their “Instant Articles” — the mobile web format that makes news articles load more quickly on Facebook, but have been called out by publishers whose ad-dependent businesses suffered as a result. In March, Facebook began testing ad units at the bottom of Instant Article pages — in the related articles section. Today, that test is opening to all publishers on the network, says Facebook.
The test involves placing a native ad unit in Instant Articles that shows readers relevant ads from Facebook’s own advertisers. According to Facebook, the initial test saw an “incremental increase” in revenue for participating publishers, but it didn’t get into specific numbers.
The company now says it’s looking to get feedback from a wider set of publishers about this unit in order to iterate on the experience.
The company’s Instant Articles — Facebook’s counterpoint to other technologies like Google’s AMP or Apple’s News format — are designed to make it easier to read publishers’ content while on the mobile web. All these technologies, at their core, are about stripping down articles to just what a reader is interested in — the text and accompanying media, like photos — without all the cruft publishers have piled on over the years, like ad units, autoplaying videos, tracking scripts and more.
However, publishers haven’t liked this shift to a cleaned-up mobile web, because all that extra “stuff” layered on their websites is what helps them pay their bills. They need advertisers, paying subscribers, event attendees and the like in order to grow their businesses.
That’s led Facebook to have to make several concessions to keep their Instant Articles snappy to load, while also catering to publishers’ need to actually make money. The company has steadily been tweaking the rules for Instant Articles in recent months — allowing them to show more ads; or rolling out new features, like call-to-action units in the articles that can promote email sign-ups or request Page Likes; or letting publishers push free trials and app downloads, among other things.
It also last month rolled out an SDK extension that would allow publishers to create articles for Google AMP and Apple News at the same time as they create Facebook Instant Articles.
But a number of high-profile publishers had enough, and have abandoned Facebook’s format. In April, Forbes, Hearst, The New York Times and others, including The Guardian, backed out of Instant Articles. Meanwhile, other major media organizations like Bloomberg, The WSJ, ESPN, CBS News, NPR, Financial Times and VICE News have been holdouts, running little to no content in Facebook’s format, it’s been reported.
Despite these setbacks, Facebook says today that adoption of Instant Articles is growing.
There are now more than 10,000 publishers worldwide using the format — a figure that’s up 25 percent over the last six months. A third of all clicks to articles on Facebook are now to Instant Articles, Facebook also notes. And, in aggregate, Instant Articles deliver 20 percent to 50 percent more traffic, as compared with the mobile web.
In addition, Facebook says its investments in things like those call-to-action units, new types of ads and changes to where ads can be placed have begun to pay off. Instant Articles now pays out more than $1 million per day to publishers via Facebook Audience Network. And, in the last six months, RPM (revenue per 1,000 page views) that publishers see from Facebook Audience Network in Instant Articles has increased by more than 50 percent, the company says.
Revolut, the rather noisy London fintech startup that offers a card and current account features, coupled with low currency exchange, has taken venture debt from U.S.-based Triplepoint Capital, according to a regulatory filing. The amount remains undisclosed, though I understand the financing is to see the company through to a much larger Series B round currently in the works.
“Revolut recently closed a venture debt facility with a leading U.S.-based venture debt firm,” a Revolut spokesperson told TechCrunch, confirming the Companies House filing dated June 1. “Revolut has significant growth plans and venture debt provides us with a quick means of accelerating the growth whilst we close our impending large equity round.”
The company has to date raised approximately £11 million in equity financing via two seed rounds and a Series A, according to Crunchbase.
Backers include pre-seed/seed investor Seedcamp, London VCs Index Ventures and Balderton Capital, Venrex, Germany’s Point Nine Capital and U.S.-based Ribbit Capital. In addition, £1 million of Revolut’s Series A last year came in the form of equity crowdfunding via Crowdcube.
Meanwhile, the London-based startup has been pretty active of late, rolling out a plethora of features that take it beyond a pre-paid card for low currency exchange when spending abroad.
The company launched “current account” functionality in February, putting it into neobank territory, and followed up in March by offering credit in partnership with Lending Works.
The same month, Revolut rolled out a subscription version of its service that sees users pay a monthly fee for unlimited interbank foreign exchange when you spend, transfer and exchange money via a Revolut account.
Yet more activity in the world of cybersecurity. Microsoft today confirmed that it will acquire Hexadite, an Israeli startup that uses AI to identify and protect against attacks. We and others reported last month that this deal was in the works, for a price sources tell us is $100 million.
The idea is to expand Microsoft’s existing security portfolio with an infusion of new technology based around new innovations in areas like AI and machine learning. “Our vision is to deliver a new generation of security capabilities that helps our customers protect, detect and respond to the constantly evolving and ever-changing cyberthreat landscape,” said Terry Myerson, executive vice president, Windows and Devices Group, Microsoft, in a statement.
“Hexadite’s technology and talent will augment our existing capabilities and enable our ability to add new tools and services to Microsoft’s robust enterprise security offerings.”
Microsoft said that when the deal closes, Hexadite will be folded into work it does to develop security solutions for commercial Windows 10 customers, specifically with Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (WDATP). “With Hexadite, WDATP will include endpoint security automated remediation, while continuing the incredible growth in activations of WDATP, which now protects almost 2 million devices,” Microsoft notes.
Other security acquisitions Microsoft has made in Israel include Aorato, Adallom and Secure Islands.
More generally, Hexadite’s tech and Microsoft’s interest in it are part of a bigger, new trend in security: legacy services are no longer fit for purpose in the new era of increasingly sophisticated malicious attacks, so enterprises are now spending to update their systems to better protect their networks.
Hexadite is part of what you might call that new guard of security companies, building solutions based on machine learning and AI modelled on “top cyber analysts” to try to tackle threats more like the smartest humans would. Other startups using AI to tackle security threats include Crowdstrike, which raised a large round of funding last month at a billion-dollar valuation; Cylance, also valued at more than $1 billion; and Harvest AI, which, as we reported, Amazon quietly acquired last year.
As we’ve noted before, what Hexadite does is provide a security remediation system: it identifies and stops smaller issues itself, and at the same time it weeds out bigger problems that need to be addressed by in-person security teams. By doing this, it prevents those teams from being overwhelmed by the smaller items. It claims to reduce the time it takes to deal with security issues, as a result, by 95 percent.
Microsoft’s interest in Hexadite — whose customers include Nuance, Telit and IDT — points to how security remains a hot area in the world of technology and specifically enterprise IT.
The rapid growth of connected services and devices has gone hand-in-hand with a rapid rise in cybercrime, with malicious hackers becoming increasingly rampant and sophisticated in their attacks on networks and the hardware and apps that run on them, with breaches leading to millions of dollars in costs and lots of stress.
This has led to an increasingly sophisticated landscape for security services, with companies covering every aspect of how we conduct business today and a huge amount of spending by organizations to try to prevent, stop, fix or mitigate damage. IDC estimates that enterprises will spend nearly $82 billion on security software this year.
Hexadite had raised $10.5 million in funding, according to Crunchbase, with investors including HP Ventures, YL Ventures, TenEleven Ventures and Moshe Lichtman of Israel Venture Partners. As we pointed out before, Lichtman is a 10-year veteran of Microsoft, which could point to one connection between the startup and its acquirer. Hexadite’s last round, of $8 million, was raised last year.

 Getty Images
Former FBI Director James Comey is set to give testimony in front of the Senate Intelligence Committee regarding his relationship with Trump during the Russia/Mike Flynn investigation.
Yesterday, his prepared statement went public, blowing up the news cycle with a seven-page document that tells the story of Trump’s pressure for loyalty from the FBI.
Needless to say, people are pretty anxious to watch the public testimony.
Those of you watching on cable have many options:
The whole thing will go down live on ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox News and more, and many of those same networks are live streaming the event online.
Cord-cutters have plenty of options as well:

C-Span
PBS
USA Today
Twitch
Twitter
Periscope

And there are at least three bars in SF that are opening doors early for folks to come watch the hearing.

 Drew Angerer/Getty Images
Alexa can already control your Fire TV to help you launch Netflix or find your favorite show, among other things, but today Amazon is announcing a new tool for developers that will allow any cable and satellite TV company, streaming service or other content provider to add the same sort of voice control to their apps, as well. With the new Video Skill API, developers could allow Echo and Alexa device owners to change channels, seek out shows or movies, search across genres, play or pause content and more — just by speaking.
For instance, you could say to one of your streaming video apps, “Alexa, find comedies,” or “Alexa, play episodes of Modern Family.” And cable TV providers could offer apps that let you change the channel without using a remote, by saying something like “Alexa, tune to HBO.”
That doesn’t mean you’re instantly going to be able to use popular apps like Hulu, HBO or Netflix hands-free using your Echo speaker, of course. Developers actually have to update their apps to take advantage of the API first. And not all will.
But Amazon says some companies have already rolled out apps using this new API, including Dish, NetGem and U.K.-based YouView.
If anything, this initial traction seems to indicate it’s pay TV providers and those in the telco industries that are eager to adopt the API in order to stem their losses to streaming services.
Dish announced its Alexa integration in May, becoming the first U.S. TV provider to allow subscribers to control their DVRs via their voice.
Customers with either Dish’s Wally or Hopper receivers are now able to configure their Echo, Echo Dot or Amazon Tap speakers to work with the Dish’s own equipment. After a brief setup process, watching TV becomes a hands-free experience.
Amazon tells us it’s now actively working with many other video providers, beyond these initial three, but can’t share details because their apps and upgrades are still in development.
In addition to being able to control the video app, the Video Skill API can import a provider’s own catalog to help improve the accuracy of Alexa’s responses, and it works without the customer having to first invoke a specific skill. That is, instead of instructing Alexa to “ask Dish” to play a title, do a search, or change the channel, the customer can give simpler instructions, like “Alexa, play ‘Manchester by the Sea.’ ”
More information for developers is available here.
The revolution will be televised… over the internet. By 2021, 82 percent of all consumer IP traffic will be video, and that growth will be driven by a boon in live streaming, courtesy of services like Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. In the meantime, the internet will become an even bigger part of the fabric of how we do everything, growing to 3.3 zettabytes of traffic annually by 2021 — up three times compared to internet traffic today (and working out to 278 exabytes per month).
The figures come courtesy of networking giant Cisco, which has just released its annual forecast of internet trends, the Visual Network Index, a 12-year-long project that brings together several independent analyst forecasts with network usage data Cisco gathers from its customers and its own servers.
The bigger picture you get from the report, especially as you read it in conjunction with some of the other marquee crystal ball efforts like Mary Meeker’s internet trends, is one of an increasingly connected world, where ever more activity is moving into the digital ether.
According to Cisco’s calculations, there will be 27 billion devices and connections globally by 2021, with 3.5 networked devices per capita by 2021 — compared to 2.3 networked devices per capita last year (2016). With that increased connectivity — and corresponding growth in network speed and services running on those networks — we will also see a boon in IP traffic, which reached 35 GB per capita in 2016, compared to 13 GB in 2012.
You can look through the bigger report here. Below, some more highlights:

Internet of Things: The trend of connected objects — where previously “dumb,” unconnected physical things can now communicate with us, the network and each other — continues with its quiet but growing presence. Half of the 27 billion connected devices in 2021 will be IoT objects, or 13.7 billion connections. Cisco says that healthcare will be taking the lead on IoT, with growth of 30 percent annually.
Video: The popularity of video is already a major force in our world today, where it accounted for 73 percent of all consumer internet traffic in 2016. That will continue to rise, and will be 82 percent of all consumer internet traffic, up 31 percent, by 2021. One of the bigger drivers here will be live video. This will be 13 percent of internet video traffic by 2021, still lower than other kinds of streamed video, but what’s key here is how it is growing, up 15-fold between 2016 and 2021, representing the biggest growth opportunity for new entrants and creators compared to the long tail of recorded and existing content.
One component of that trend is the switch away from traditional broadcast networks to TV delivered over IP, and the subsequent knock-on effect for traditional pay TV service providers.
Cisco says that the average “cord-cutting” house generates 117 GB per month in internet traffic, versus 63 GB for houses that have internet but also a pay-TV service.
Wi-Fi is the name of the game: Cisco predicts that Wi-Fi will continue to account for the majority of internet traffic, at 53 percent of all access, versus 20 percent for cellular and 27 percent for fixed access. Wi-Fi’s growth, interestingly, is largely unchanged from today: it was at 52 percent of all traffic last year, with the big switch coming in fixed, dropping 11 percentage points and cellular gaining 10 percentage points.
Wi-Fi hotspots and home access points will nevertheless continue to expand, up to 541.6 million by 2021 (up from 94 million last year). Home Wi-Fi will be the vast majority of this figure. China will lead the world in Wi-Fi usage with 170 million access points, followed by the U.S. at 86 million.
DDoS attacks will continue to rise: Cisco also tracks some security metrics in its index and says that the size of DDoS attacks will be “increasing steadily” to approach 1.2 Gpbs by 2012 “enough to take most organizations completely offline” as malicious hackers flood servers and networks with traffic. DDoS attacks can represent up to 18 percent of a country’s internet traffic when they are at their peak.
Currently, DDoS appears to be increasing roughly at the same rate as internet traffic itself, as the sizes respectively grew at 22 percent and 29 percent. The number of DDoS attacks was up by 172 percent last year, and will reach 3.1 million attacks annually worldwide by 2021.
French startup Algolia just raised a $53 million Series B round led by Accel, a couple of years after raising $18.3 million with… Accel also leading the round. So it looks like it’s a love story between the VC firm and the software-as-a-service startup.
The reason is quite simple. Algolia is still growing like crazy, with its annual recurring revenue doubling every year. Algolia’s goal hasn’t changed — the startup wants to provide the best search experience to everyone building websites and apps out there.
Jason Lemkin’s SaaStr fund, Jyoti Bansal, Clark Valberg and Des Traynor are also participating in today’s round, as well as existing investors Alven Capital, Point Nine Capital and Storm Ventures.
Just like Twilio is handling calls and text messages for you so you don’t have to, Algolia can also take care of the search box on your website. In just a few lines of code, you can replace your search feature with Algolia’s search.
You’ll need to feed Algolia with your search data and customize it to your needs, as well. After that, every time a user starts typing a letter, it’ll query one of Algolia’s servers and return results in no time. It’s quite remarkable to see how quickly and accurately it works.
And chances are that you’ve been using Algolia without realizing it. The company is managing the search feature on Medium, DigitalOcean, Twitch, Stripe, Periscope, Crunchbase and many others.
The company now has 3,000 customers and handles 25 billion searches every month. Recently, the startup launched a fallback version of Algolia called Algolia Offline that you can use if you’re in airplane mode or don’t have a strong signal. Algolia also optimized its search feature for places.
With today’s funding round, Algolia is going to open another office in London after Paris, San Francisco, New York City and Atlanta. And of course, the company wants to get new customers, build new features and maybe one day become the Stripe of search.
The proportion of jobs being made redundant across AOL and Yahoo is around 15 percent globally, we have confirmed with our sources.
This shakes out to as many as 2,100 jobs being lost as part of the corporate merger.
Yesterday Re/Code suggested up to 1,000 jobs will be cut across the combined company, as duplicate roles in departments such as finance, HR, marketing and admin are taken out, but our sources said that figure is too low.
We understand there are around 14,000 employees in total across AOL and Yahoo today.
While no voluntary redundancies are being offered, one source told us that employees who left in recent months are being paid out to help hit reduction targets.
We are also told that the proportion of redundancies is not equal across internal departments. One source said this can be up to 30 percent, depending on the organization, noting another has cuts of ~5 percent.
“It seems that a lot of thought and effort has gone into this, and counterpoints have been listened and accepted,” the source added.
Last July Verizon, AOL’s parent company, announced it had finally sealed an agreement to acquire Yahoo (Disclosure: AOL is also TechCrunch’s parent company).
The deal is now racing to a close. We understand the proxy vote is taking place today — meaning the acquisition will close in a week’s time.
The combined AOL-Yahoo entity has already been given a new brand name (Oath:), and will be headed up by AOL CEO Tim Armstrong.
Asked for comment for this story, an AOL spokesperson told us: “Oath’s strategy is to lead the global brand space. With access to over 1 billion consumers upon close, we will be positioned to drive one of the most important platforms in the consumer brand space. Consistent with what we have said since the deal was announced, we will be aligning our global organization to the strategy.”
Back in February, Yahoo and Verizon agreed that $350 million would be knocked off the sale price for Yahoo — cutting it down to $4.48 billion — following the disclosure of two massive data breaches, one estimated to cover around 500 million accounts, and another affecting more than 1 billion accounts.
It’s not yet clear who will head up security for Oath.
In its short existence as a startup, London-based Roli has created two of the most compelling music-making devices in recent memory. The Seaboard was a material rethink of the standard electric keyboard, with a rubbery surface that allows played notes to be manipulated directly in a variety of ways. And the company went in an altogether different direction last year with Blocks — a system of square music pads with playable light-up scales that can be arranged in any number of configurations.
It was a no-brainer, really, that the company would eventually bridge the gap between the two offerings. Roli’s done the job by creating a modular version of its Seaboard MIDI controller that slots directly alongside existing Blocks, plugging into the system’s magnetic daisy-chained setup. The company tells me it believes the new Block, “really completes the story we started telling back in June.”

So, why didn’t it just announce the Seaboard alongside the first Blocks? The short answer is that the miniature version of its rubbery keyboard just wasn’t ready in time. In fact, the version that I saw last week still wasn’t final. 
Now that it’s here though, it may go a ways toward helping users wrap their brains around precisely what the whole Block system is about. After all, at least the Seaboard’s familiar piano layout offers a starting point to contextualize music making. Its equivalent of black and white keys make a lot more sense than a light-up square the first time you look at it. 
On the flip side, this also is far and away the most affordable version of the Seaboard the company has offered up, at $299, versus somewhere between $799 to $8,888. Granted, it has fewer keys (24) and features than the full-size version, but modularity means that you can pair it with any number of controls or make it larger by snapping together Seaboard Blocks ad infinitum. And let’s be real, as much buzz as the Seaboard has gotten over the past couple of years, a $799 starting point is prohibitively expensive for most. Particularly with a relatively unproven product. 

Roli showed me a demo of the Seaboard last week, plugged into various Blocks in all sorts of configurations. I don’t really play the piano, so I wasn’t able to do much with the thing, but the system the company is building here is really impressive — and will likely get better as it continues to grow. The amount of sounds it is capable of producing is staggering, and the sky is the limit when plugged into its music making apps, Noise and the new Equator.
Still, while the company insists that the system lowers the barrier of entry for music making, there’s still a learning curve. I ran into that issue the first time I attempted to play around with the first-generation Blocks system outside of a demo. Making noise is easy — making music is hard. In spite of this, Roli says Blocks have “been selling well, considering this is a new paradigm.”

There are no specific numbers, and there are obviously a few qualifiers, but it’s understandable that the product might have a bit of a slow ramp up, all things considered. Though, a front of store placement in various Apple Stores around the country helped in getting the devices into more users’ hands. This time out, Roli won’t be receiving that killer product placement, but it is planning to launch short instructional videos to help remove some of the mystery from the devices.



ROLI Seaboard Block and Touch Block 06 Low Res


Previous
Next
Exit
Addepar, the provider of data collection and monitoring services for the financial industry (it’s Palantir’s somewhat less ethically compromised cousin), has raised a whopping $140 million in its latest round of funding.
The company’s financing, which likely makes it a unicorn if it wasn’t already (company chief executive Eric Poirier refused to comment on the valuation), will be used to continue Addepar’s expansion internationally and to fuel more moves like its acquisition of AltX earlier this month.
Co-led by Valor Equity Partners, 8VC and QuantRes founder Harald McPike, the funding caps a ridiculously successful year-and-a-half run which saw the company more than double its assets under management to $650 billion from $300 billion.
“Addepar is now poised to become the universal operating system to power global finance,” said Addepar, Palantir and 8VC founder Joe Lonsdale. “It has already connected much of the financial services ecosystem as the leading platform for the highest caliber of asset owners and advisors, capturing and aggregating data from numerous sources and helping to apply it in the most intuitive and impactful ways.”
Think of Addepar as the tool that gives portfolio managers for the world’s super rich a way to see exactly what those super rich own.
According to a 2016 Wealth-X report, ultra-high-net worth individuals hold roughly $30 trillion dollars in assets globally. By comparison, the sovereign wealth funds of the world hold about $6.3 trillion.
Setting aside how completely and totally screwed we are as a species based on that information, Poirier told me that the money managers for those ultra-high-net worth individuals have very little insights into the assets that those multi-millionaires and billionaires actually own.
That’s the service that Addepar provides, giving folks insight into the wealth of the 0.01 percent. But Poirier wants to bring those tools and that insight to a broader group of pension funds and sovereign wealth funds so they can make better decisions on how to manage money for the pensioners they ostensibly support.
That was the reason that Antonio Gracias, the founder, managing partner and chief investment officer joined the company, Poirier said.
Gracias is known for investing in most of Elon Musk’s companies, and serves as a director at Tesla Motors, Space Exploration Technologies and Marathon Pharmaceuticals.
“The idea of a common language and a truly universal data platform for the financial services world is something Wall Street 10 years ago could never have imagined,” said Gracias in a statement. “Addepar has not only imagined it, but achieved it, pioneering a fast growing new market that will revolutionize the way data drives finance.”
Data collection and visibility isn’t just going to be the purview of Addepar alone. And to ensure that the company’s tools can reach the widest audience, Addepar opened an API and has integrated its data mining and analytical toolkit into products for Salesforce, FolioDynamix, icapital Network, Citco Fund Services, RedBlack Software, Blas Portfolio, Quovo and others.
“We’ve aligned Addepar’s business, product and technology strategy to enable a new level of innovation and connection across the financial services industry. We’re playing the long game,” said Poirier in a statement.

 CSA-Archive/Getty Images
Rand Corporation reported in 2016 that autonomous cars would need to be tested over 11 billion miles in order to prove that they’re better drivers than humans. With a fleet of 100 cars running 24 hours a day, that would take 500 years, according to the report. That seems both improbable and impractical, so companies like Cognata are filling the autonomous vehicle testing void with virtual miles.
The need to establish the reliability of autonomous vehicles in short order has prompted Emerge, Maniv Mobility and Airbus Ventures to invest $5 million in funding in Cognata. The company’s simulation system uses artificial intelligence, deep learning, and computer vision to create a virtual environment for testing cars without drivers — no roads required. It simulates the data collected by the vehicle’s sensors when encountering other vehicles and a variety of road conditions.
Cognata recreates real cities in 3D, starting with San Francisco, with every building and tree in place. Then it layers in data, like traffic models from different cities, to understand how vehicles drive and react in each particular location. “We can see the difference between San Francisco, Bangalore, and London,” said CEO Danny Atsmon in a phone interview. The third layer of Cognata’s virtual test is the emulation of the 40 or so sensors that autonomous vehicles require, including cameras, lidar and GPS. These simulations are run using the computers provided by the auto manufacturer or Tier 1 supplier in a far safer environment than, say, the street you live on.

Because the tests are run using Cognata’s cloud platform, “we can drive millions of miles in a few hours,” Atsmon said. “We can take hundreds of thousands of instances to run hundreds of thousands of scenarios,” including things like false positives from the sensors, “in a few hours or sometimes a few days.”
Before founding Cognata, Atsmon was the director of ADAS and machine learning at Harman — now part of Samsung — which supplies manufacturers with connected car solutions. (You might know the company better for its Harman Kardon sound systems.) Atsmon’s goal in founding the autonomous vehicle testing company after leaving Harman was to create a scalable way to test cutting-edge technology in less time and for less money than deploying a fleet of vehicles on the road. It’s also far safer.
“Because we are creating things virtually, we can recreate full cities — even the cities where autonomous driving is not allowed yet,” Atsmon said. “We can bridge that gap so that those cities will be more ready when they do allow it.”

 Cognata
London-based Trint, a startup co-founded by Emmy-winning journalist Jeff Kofman, is tackling a pain point I know all too well: the time it takes to transcribe an interview (or any audio) accurately.
To solve this particular problem the company is employing machine learning and speech-to-text technology to automate transcribing, but — perhaps crucially — outputting the result in a user interface that recognizes that automation typically only gets the job partly done.
Specifically, Trint integrates a web-based audio/video player and text editor, with the outputted automated transcription synced to the audio player’s playhead. It’s a deceptively simple idea but one that makes a ton of difference when checking (and editing) a transcription for accuracy.
“We glue the text output of automated speech-to-text to the original source audio. And that means that you can follow it like karaoke,” explains Kofman via an audio file transcribed by Trint. “And because it’s an editor, if you have a word like Muammar Gaddafi, a name like that that’s not correctly transcribed, then you can fix it. And in seconds you’ve got the moment you need and you know you’ve got transcripts you can trust.”

Of course, the outputted text means that otherwise hard to search content becomes searchable, taking Trint’s application way beyond journalism or academic interviews.
“In the digital age, more than 80 percent of the content that we look at is recorded content, whether it’s video or audio, and none of it’s searchable,” Kofman says.
“There’s this concept of dark data. If you look at a video on YouTube or on a news website or at a corporate website and you want to find a specific reference you have to listen to it. It’s that simple. There’s no shortcut to finding that specific part of content.”
Trint originally launched in September 2016 with funding from the Knight Enterprise Fund and the Google Digital News Initiative, as well as support from BBC Worldwide Labs and Cisco. It claims to have close to 7,000 regular users in just nine months, which hasn’t gone unnoticed by investors.
The U.K. company has closed $3.1 million in “pre-Series A funding,” in a round led by Horizons Labs, the Hong Kong-based seed fund operated by the managers of Horizons Ventures.
Kofman says the new capital will be used to support the development of technology to transform Trint into an “end-to-end publishing platform.” The startup also plans to roll out a mobile app, and a series of enterprise solutions targeting international media organizations, universities, businesses and government agencies as potential Trint customers. A new feature that will make online videos and podcasts “searchable, shareable and accessible” is promised, too.
Tim Davey, co-founder Onefinestay
Entrepreneur First, the company builder and early-stage investor, has recruited two new venture partners, each of whom have exited a London startup in the last couple of years.
They are Tim Davey, co-founder and former CTO of Onefinestay, which was acquired by AccorHotels last year for at least $170 million, and Toby Moore, co-founder and former CTO of Space Ape Games, which Supercell recently acquired a majority stake of for $55.8 million.
“We’re excited to add Tim and Toby to the EF team,” Entrepreneur First co-founder Alice Bentinck tells me, confirming the appointments. “They are well-respected and well-known members of the London startup scene, and I’ve been super impressed at the way they approach mentoring and coaching very early stage startups.”
The reference to mentoring and coaching relates to the specific role that venture partners play at EF. This sees them typically spend one day a week supporting teams going through the current program, and on a rolling basis, so potentially supporting future cohorts too depending on how long they choose to remain a venture partner.
Toby Moore, co-founder of Space Ape Games
Key to this, and different to the more thinly spread mentoring provided by some traditional accelerators, is that EF’s venture partners — as the name suggests — have “skin in the game” in the form of vested equity in the early-stage investor’s fund. That way the support they provide to portfolio startups carries more commitment and the interests of mentor and mentee are greater aligned.
“As you may know, EF believes in providing extensive and consistent support to our companies from the minute they form, all the way through to closing their seed round (around 12 months),” adds Bentinck. “The teams get 45 minutes a week with their assigned venture partner. We see this form of mentoring and coaching as the most effective way to build and support early-stage startups. No bullshit random mentoring here.”
I also understand that the hope long term is for Entrepreneur First to become the natural “stopping off point” for entrepreneurs in Europe and Singapore who have successfully exited and are, perhaps, in-between ventures.
Meanwhile, EF also counts Jon Folland (co-founder of Nativ, which exited to Ooyala) and Chris Mairs as venture partners, whilst Nadav Rosenberg (ex-Groupon and Taboola) is a partner and Joe White and Wendy Tan White, founders of Moonfruit, are general partners.
Another cloud storage party is over, guys: Amazon has sunsetted its unlimited cloud storage plan for Amazon Drive — although members of its Prime subscription club will still get unlimited cloud storage for photos.
From today, people signing up for Amazon Drive will not be able to select an unlimited cloud storage option. Instead they can choose either 100 GB for $11.99 per year, or 1 TB for $59.99, with up to 30 TB available for an additional $59.99 per TB. (The prior pricing was $11.99pa for unlimited photos or unlimited everything for $59.99.)
All sign ups still get 5GB of storage gratis. Best to think of that as getting your first hit for free.
As for unlimited storage, Amazon only introduced the option in March 2015 — when it was couched as an aggressive play in an increasingly competitive consumer cloud storage market. And lo and behold, two months later Google announced its own free unlimited photo storage service.
Two years later Amazon is now tightening the screws on those who have locked their data inside its vaults — an all too familiar story in the cloud storage space.
Though the photo exception is notable, and not just because Google’s competing unlimited photo storage offer persists but because photos offer a rich stream of personal data — extractable by third parties via machine learning technology. tl;dr your personal photos are a lot more valuable than your storage-heavy digital entertainment collection.
Current Amazon Drive customers who have the old unlimited storage plan will keep it through its expiration date. After which, those with auto-renew turned on — and less than 1TB of data stored — will be automatically renewed into the 1TB plan/$60pa.
While those with auto-renew turned off, or who have more than 1TB stored, will have to visit the Manage Storage page to opt in to one of the new limited storage plans.
Those who don’t take action to switch to a new plan — and who are storing more data than their free storage quota — will find their account in “over-quota status” once their subscription expires, meaning they won’t be able to upload additional files, and can only view, download, and delete content.
Amazon says users in this position will have 180 days to either delete content to bring their total content within the free quota or else sign up for a paid storage plan. After 180 days, the company will delete data automatically to get the account back within quota — starting with the most recent uploads first. (You can read Amazon’s Data Retention Policy here.)
While Prime members don’t have to worry about their photo storage, which continues to be unlimited, non-photo content can be considered over-quota even for Prime members — so these Amazon customers may still need to take action to save some of their data.
Amazon notes that Drive users can change their plan at any time. While files from Drive can be downloaded to a computer using the Amazon Drive Desktop Application.

 Paul Sakuma/AP
MIT has received a donation that is notable for its size and the lack of strings attached to it. An anonymous alumnus gave the university $140 million designated as an “unrestricted” gift, which gives MIT a lot of leeway in deciding how it is spent.
While the donors of restricted gifts usually have specific ideas for the money (like funding a department or study), MIT can use the $140 million donation on almost anything related to its educational and research mission, from its campus to early-stage research considered too risky for funding from other sources.
The university gave some examples of the projects unrestricted funds have already supported, including “the work of faculty breaking new ground in such areas as Alzheimer’s disease, where research into a unique visual stimulation technique could herald a breakthrough in the understanding and treatment of the condition, and in physics, where MIT faculty have played a primary role in detecting the largest collection of antimatter particles recorded in space — helping to advance our fundamental knowledge about the universe.”
Though they wish to remain unnamed, the donor said in MIT’s statement that they were a past recipient of MIT’s financial aid program. “I am also inspired by MIT’s vision in tackling global challenges, and I trust its leadership to take bold steps to make the world a better place. I am blessed to be able to give back to the Institute so other students can experience what I did, and so that the Institute can continue to excel in groundbreaking achievements.”
One of MIT’s most ambitious initiatives is the $5 billion Campaign For A Better World, which has already raised $3.4 billion from 87,000 donors to support research into environmental and humanitarian issues.

 Chun-Teh Chen/Getty Images
Today’s Stories 

Facebook will share anonymized location data with disaster relief organizations
Online learning startup Coursera raises $64M at an $800M valuation
SpaceX will launch the US Air Force’s top secret X-37B spaceplane in August
iOS 11 stops apps like Uber and Waze from accessing user location data at all times

Credits
Written by: Tito Hamze, John MannesHosted by: Tito HamzeFilmed by: Joe ZolnoskiEdited by: Chris gates
Notes:

I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.

TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107
It’s been a rocky road to glory for Discord, a startup whose iPad battle arena game, “Fates Forever,” earned it a top spot at our 2013 TechCrunch Disrupt show, but wound up flopping with users.
What a difference a few years makes. After pivoting to a voice and text chat tool for video game teams and trash talkers in 2015, Discord’s current trajectory makes it one of few consumer-facing companies that’s now reaching “escape velocity,” as one of its early investors gushes.
In fact, San Francisco-based Discord has 45 million registered users on its platform, quadrupling from a year ago, with 9 million daily actives. Now Discord is aiming to become the communication layer for gaming, recently closing a competitive financing toward that end.
Index Ventures is said to have led the roughly $50 million funding round, which quietly took place in January at a pre-money valuation of $725 million, according to our sources. Institutional Venture Partners also chipped in a significant amount. And earlier backers — including Spark Capital, Greylock Partners and Benchmark — participated.
When pressed for comment TechCrunch’s report, Discord confirmed to us that it had raised a funding round earlier this year, and provided this statement from CEO Jason Citron:
“We are extremely proud of the impact Discord is making and the progress of our mission to connect people around their love of gaming. This has resonated with our community and also the investment community who see the value in what we are creating. Any investment we earn is poured directly into making Discord better and supporting the massive growth we’ve seen over the past year.”
A source close to the company says Discord will likely raise more money soon, too, given outside interest. (There “isn’t much else going on in consumer land right now,” observes this person.)

Interestingly, some of that new capital went toward cashing out employees, a move that has seemingly created mixed feelings among earlier investors. One source says “quite a bit” of the new round was used to acquire the secondary shares of Discord staffers, with this person expressing concern that liquidity has come too soon for those employees, considering that Discord was founded in 2012.
Another source notes that Discord enabled its early employees to sell their shares to ensure that everyone’s interests are aligned. Given that Discord pivoted from its early mission and that it today requires different skill sets than at the outset, not every employee who began with the company remains well-suited to its current mission.
This same source calls Discord’s CEO a mobile gaming pioneer, noting that Citron previously founded, then sold, the mobile-social gaming network OpenFeint for $104 million, roughly a quarter of which landed in his pocket. The implication: Citron isn’t in this for a fast buck.
None of the company’s earlier investors seized on the offer to sell in the secondary offering, though it was also presented to them, we’re told. Says one early backer, “Given how well the company is doing, why would we do that?”

Whatever the case may be, there’s little question that Discord needs all eyes on the prize. The fast-moving and tumultuous gaming business is full of direct competitors like TeamSpeak and Microsoft-owned Skype. And then there’s Amazon’s game-streaming juggernaut Twitch, which last year joined the battle to control this same communications layer by acquiring a direct competitor to Discord called Curse.
Facebook, with its billion-plus-user Messenger and WhatsApp products, always looms over the chat space, too.
With Discord’s fresh capital and Citron’s history of building the games that his company now augments with chat, Discord is as well-positioned as any to beef up its marketing, grow its audience, and steal users from its sluggish rivals. The cash adds to Discord’s $29 million in confirmed raises plus more undisclosed funding.
Still, Discord will have to figure out how to turn itself into a self-sustaining business. Some believed Discord was angling for an acquisition by Amazon/Twitch. Since Twitch bought Curse instead, Discord can’t expect an easy exit unless it can attract Facebook, Google, or a China-based giant to draw it into one of their own, sprawling portfolios.
Discord has promised to keep its core product and features free forever. That ensures users can trust it to be their continued home for game communications. (Discord’s savvy user base would likely jump ship to a free alternative if it tried to jack up the prices.) Yet it also limits some of its money-making potential.
For now, it offers Discord Nitro for a $4.99/month subscription that provides users with a few cosmetic perks like GIF avatars, custom emotes, a Nitro badge, and increased file upload size limits.
It will need to dream up more compelling reasons to subscribe if it wants to boost earnings. Video chat might be a good option, especially since Curse already offers it. Discord might alternatively want to break into ecommerce, working with game makers to sell their titles and downloadable content bonuses inside its chat interface.

Otherwise, Discord may have to keep raising more money. Operating all the free voice chat servers, and paying top game streaming celebrities hefty sponsorship fees to keep their communities on Discord is surely getting expensive.
There are more challenges ahead. Discord will have to police abuse and other problems in the small percentage of public chat rooms available on the platform. Luckily, most usage is on private servers operated by close groups of friends where foul language is more about joking around than harassment. Discord has also begun to see some usage outside gaming, with its text and voice chat becoming channels for subreddits on topics like whiskey, or politics. The latter could need attention, since alt-right groups have been known to use Discord to organize their trolling.
The good news for Discord: hardcore gamers we talked to said it’s firmly the fan favorite, developing a powerful brand inside a close-knit but rapidly growing community. It’s estimated that around $62 billion will be spent on non-mobile video gaming this year. Bolstered by its new financing, Discord could become a lucrative gateway to that spend.
The Gigabyte AERO 15 seen here is your usual gaming laptop, but with a twist — a color-corrected screen.
While Retina displays on Macs have become the gold standard for laptop displays, Windows machines have instead opted for absurd amounts of pixels or touchscreens — with inconsistent color reproduction and color gamut.
Razer is trying to fill this gap with their Blade THX edition and Gigabyte just brought in their entry with the new AERO 15. So, are color-corrected displays a gimmick, or do they help the editors and creatives who hope their laptop screens are displaying colors accurately?
Does a color-corrected display matter?
The AERO 15 doesn’t have a sub-par display, but next to a MacBook Pro it still looks pale, with a colder hue compared to the Pro’s warmer, crisper look. To the naked eye, the differences might be due to the Pro using a glossy, 15.4-inch 2880×1800 display that makes colors “pop,” while the AERO 15 is using a lower resolution 1080p, 15.6-inch matte screen.
The slightly longer answer: Creatives who have been using Macs for years have benefited from a color profile and screen technology tuned to be vibrant and accurate. On the other hand, recent Windows laptops haven’t paid the same attention to detail regarding colors, instead opting for absurd amounts of pixels (like 4K displays) or touchscreens.

The AERO 15 comes with a ton of pre-loaded software, much to my disappointment, but some of it is useful, like the Smart Manager app that controls most of the special functions on the AERO 15.
Within the “Smart Manager,” you can select the display’s native colors, control color temperature in Kelvin or switch to the X-Rite mode.

When you do, you’ll notice colors are slightly muted, with less contrast and what seems like increased clarity, sharpness and more subtle color reproduction. But remember, that’s all according to the naked eye.
I asked video editors and illustrators at TechCrunch, as well as friends who have similar display color needs, about what this means to them. I’ve often been told glossy is the way to go (as well as buying a Mac), and on a personal note, I agree. However, unlike the Retina display, you’ll be able to see under sunlight.
While I get Gigabyte’s approach was going for color precision and accuracy, I can’t imagine the creators who want a color-corrected display will find a 1080p HD, matte panel interesting. We live in a post-HD age, even if it just means having HD content on a higher-resolution screen.




Only PC gamers really swear by this standard, but that’s changing, as well. Full HD’s prevalence in PC gaming is thanks to the middle ground between quality, aspect ratio and performance. Here, the AERO 15 scores a 60 percent Adobe RGB color gamut with 890-:1 color contrast in its default color profile. Both are decent scores, but not for an editing display, by any stretch whatsoever.
However, activating the X-Rite correction closes the gap, but still leaves you with a slow 32ms response time (desktop monitors often score less than 3ms).
It makes me think how much better the display would be if, by default, it were a better display to begin with. Beggars can’t be choosers, I suppose.
The AERO 15 as a gaming machine

If you weren’t even aware of the color-correction discussion, then you’d still be happy to know as a gaming machine, the AERO 15 can power anything I throw at it.
A VR-ready, NVIDIA GTX 1060 graphics chip with 6GB of GDDR5 memory has the resources to run most games at high to ultra settings, at the native 1080p resolution. This includes Battlefield 1 on DirectX 12, Rainbow Six: Siege, Escape From Tarkov (which is still in alpha) and League of Legends  — all of which run at an FPS upwards of 60 to 120 frames per second. So, you’re pretty safe.
The rest of AERO 15’s specs are in line with current-generation laptops: an Intel Core i7-7700HQ processor, a 512GB solid state drive and 16GB of DDR4-2400MHz RAM.
The keyboard, mouse, speakers, port selection and camera are all decent. Keyboard travel is smooth and mechanical and the touchpad is large and fairly smooth (not to be used for gaming). You get a healthy set of three USB 3.0 ports, Ethernet, HDMI-out, DisplayPort, audio jack, SD card slot, Kensington lock slot and a single, lonely USB-C port. Lastly, the camera is mounted at the bottom of the system, so everyone will see your nose hair — thanks Gigabyte.
When driving intense VR applications, you’d often have to degrade eye candy in exchange for FPS on mobile systems; this is true here. Any serious PC gamer knows, the most bang for your buck comes from building your own desktop system. For the $1,899 price of this laptop, you could have better specs and drive all the VR apps you’d ever want, until you get VR sickness.
Don’t do that last part… but it’s just a thought.
Bottom line

Without a doubt, the AERO 15 can be a fast, slim gaming laptop with edgy materials and a 16.8 million color programmable mechanical keyboard. However, NVIDIA’s recent announcement of the Max Q design spec for its GTX 10 series chips means thinner gaming laptops will be released in just a few short months, if not weeks. You can also bet that some of them will tackle the color-correction issue.
So, an evolving market puts the AERO 15 in a predicament that as a reviewer, makes it difficult to judge.
The only shreds of originality here are the edgeless display and X-Rite color-correction software. At least in the case of the AERO 15’s screen, if you’re seeing orange, it’s probably true.
Price as reviewed: $1,899 at Newegg
Okta reported its first quarterly results since going public in April. The company managed to surpass investors’ expectations and went up 5 percent in initial after-hours trading.
Okta, which provides identity management software for businesses, brought in $53 million in revenue, a 67 percent increase from the same period last year. Investors had been forecasting $48 million.
But losses increased from $22.8 million to $28.9 million in the same time frame. Adjusted losses went from $19.3 million to $20 million, or 50 cents per share. Analysts were expecting negative 62 cents.
“We will be profitable, it’s just a matter of when,” CEO Todd McKinnon said in a call with TechCrunch.
But for now, Okta has “been aggressively investing in growth,” he said. “We’re investing a ton in innovation and R&D to make new products for our customers.”
The company is forecasting between $55 million and $56 million in revenue for the second quarter of this year.
But someday, “we want to do $500 million in revenue in a quarter,” McKinnon said.
Okta is part of a crowded marketplace, but they claim they are uniquely positioned to benefit customers. “All the companies that compete with us, whether it’s Salesforce or Microsoft, they have an agenda, they want a certain app to be used,” said McKinnon.
Shares closed Wednesday at $25.69. The company has a market cap of $2.3 billion.

 Okta
Advertisement		



There’s a decent chance you missed the MacBook news this week. It was buried amid a flood of news as Apple powered through announcements at the WWDC keynote on Monday. Like the majority of the hardware news at the event, the differences are entirely behind the scenes — and let’s be honest, upgraded Intel processors will never be as exciting to the layperson as a Siri speaker or iMac Pro.
But slowly and surely, the little machine is becoming a more well-rounded and capable device. And this latest version is some nice refinements to the system. Perhaps most importantly, the company has addressed one of the biggest complaints with last couple of models — that flat, under-responsive keyboard. It seems incidental, but as the primary method of interfacing with the machine, it amounts to a lot.
The company has added the same butterfly switches you’ll find on the new MacBook Pro, so it no longer feels like typing on a flat piece surface. As much as I tried, I just couldn’t make it work.This time out, the difference is clear almost immediately.

The new keys are somewhere between the last generation and an older model MacBook — which is to say that they’re still relatively flat (due, likely to the slim profile), but have a much more noticeable give. Some users will still probably have an issue with the relatively shallow typing experience, but if the keyboard was a key factor keeping you from picking the new model up, it’s worth taking for a spin the next time you’re near an Apple Store..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



I’ve been using the new model since Monday’s keynote, and it’s grown on me  — and, honestly, am glad I didn’t bite the bullet and buy an older model. For someone who makes his living banging fingers against a keyboard, it’s a pretty important distinction.
Looks-wise, the system is indistinguishable from its predecessor, which is mostly a good thing. The standard MacBook is probably the best looking laptop on the market and perfectly portable. It makes my work Air look giant by comparison, making for a pretty ideal travel laptop.
I’m writing this on the plane ride home. The lady in front of me slammed the seat back the instant we hit 10,000 feet, because common airline etiquette went out of fashion years ago. Switching between the computers is like night and day. Every time I move over to the Air, I find myself precariously balancing it on my stomach. The MacBook, meanwhile, can squeeze on the tray table along with a cup of coffee.

The Touch Bar is still MIA here, and I wouldn’t anticipate it coming any time soon. It’s a good way for the company to maintain distinction between its Pro and standard lines. For all of the emoji-based functionality, Apple is still positioning it as a productivity tool. And, honestly, there isn’t a ton of spare real estate here. But Apple has surprised us before.


Crunchbase






				Apple			


 
Founded
1976


Overview
Apple is a multinational corporation that designs, manufactures, and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, portable digital music players, and sells a variety of related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications.


Apple provides many products and services, including iPhone; iPad; iPod; Mac; Apple TV; a portfolio …


Location

Cupertino, CA



Categories

Consumer Electronics, 																													Retail, 																													Hardware, 																													Electronics 


Website

http://www.apple.com 


Full profile for Apple 



 



				MacBook Air			


 
Description
The MacBook Air is a lightweight laptop with an aluminum unibody design.


Website
N/A


Full profile for MacBook Air 









Of course, some of the sacrifices made for slimness still stand. Most notably the dongle situation. While the company clearly listened to feedback about the keyboard, it’s not backing down from the controversial stance that a single USB-C port is sufficient for most of what life throws at you. That, naturally, depends on what you plan to do with the thing.
While the 12-inch MacBook is a perfect laptop for tossing into a carry on bag and getting some work done on the plane, it’s not the one I would choose, for, saying, liveblogging an Apple event. That would require dongles and adapters for days. The issue will become less of a concern as the ports become more standardized, but just having the one port for power and, well, everything else, will continue to be a problem if you’re the sort of person who tends to do everything, all at once.
As with all of these processor increases, you’re not going to see much of a performance difference, day to day — but running the standard Geekbench benchmark, I got a sizable boost over last year’s model, so overall things should be much smoother. Even so, if you’re planning to do any sort of real processor intensive tasks like video editing — well, that’s what the Pro line is for. Just hope the person in front of you doesn’t recline.
This is pretty much exactly what you’d hope to get out of the annual upgrade from Apple. It’s got a nice performance bump (jury’s still out on full battery life testing), and the keyboard makes it a much better typing experience.
The last MacBook was one of the first Apple products I’ve tested that I didn’t have much of an issue returning to the company. I just never warmed to the typing experience. This time around, it will be a little tougher to give up.







0
SHARES



Rebel has been helping marketers do more with their emails — so that those emails become interactive experiences (with capabilities like galleries and quizzes) in and of themselves. Now the startup is adding the ability for consumers to complete their purchase from an email.
The company was previously known as Rebelmail, but as part of today’s launch, it’s rebranding as Rebel. Co-founder Joe Teplow told me that while Rebel’s current capabilities are centered on email, its ambitions are broader — he wants to bring an “immersive, interactive experience” to a range of channels that businesses use to connect with their customers.
As for the new Rebel Shop product, it seems to fulfill Rebel’s promise of turning emails into mobile storefronts. Before this, users could browse and customize different products from a retailer and then add them to their cart, all from an email on their smartphone, but they’d have to click through to the website to actually make the purchase. With these new capabilities, consumers can just hit the Purchase Now button and their whole transaction is completed via email.

For example, a retailer could send a message to a shopper asking if they meant to abandon their online cart, and the shopper could then complete their purchase from that email, no website required.
In order to get access to one-click checkout, the customers need to have previously provided their payment information to the retailer, or to another retailer in the Rebel network. (Customers who haven’t shared this information will be directed to a mobile checkout page, where they can save the info for future use.) This means consumers are never asked to share credit card information in the email itself. The company also says that its payments system is “fully PCI compliant.”
Teplow suggested that email has become “the last owned channel” for retailers, where they have direct access to customers without having to worry about news feed algorithms or promoting themselves through ads. By adding one-click payments to the process, he’s hoping to offer “the most frictionless experience” possible.

 Mix3r/Shutterstock
In case a certain recent product unveiling got you hankering for a connected speaker with impressive, room-filling audio performance, you’re in luck: The Brookstone Big Blue Party Indoor-Outdoor Wireless Wi-Fi Speaker is exactly that, and you can buy one right now. Plus, it’s currently available for $249, which is less than the price of that other speaker — even when it does eventually go on sale.
The Big Blue Party Speaker is not itself actually blue: It comes in two color options, including light gray and graphite, which roughly match up with Google’s silver and black Pixel phone colors. The speaker is large, standing almost a foot-and-a-half tall, and it’s relatively heavy at 12 lbs. But its size and weight are indicative of its quality in this case, because the solid speaker puts out sound in 360-degrees, and is built for durable use in all sorts of weather, with a water-resistant exterior housing.
Given its sound quality and built-in battery, the Big Blue Party Speaker would be a good deal even if it only offered Bluetooth connectivity (hence the “blue” in the name, if you hadn’t guessed). But that’s actually not all that the speaker has in terms of connection options: There’s an auxiliary port for hardwired connections, of course, but there’s also Wi-Fi built-in, which makes it possible to connect with Chromecast devices for multi-room synced audio streaming.
This is really the product’s killer feature, and what makes the difference between it and the Bluetooth-only version, which is $50 cheaper at regular price but which lacks Wi-Fi. But the upgrade is worth the cash, as this is one of the only devices out there that currently offers Chromecast built-in, as well as battery power alongside weather-resistant construction.




OLYMPUS DIGITAL CAMERA




If you’re not already on a Chromecast kick, you should look at the tech again. Google’s streaming layer is now available in plenty of home theater and speaker hardware, as well as in its Google Home speaker. It works with Android at the system level, and with a range of music and podcasting apps even on iOS. With the Google Home app, you can arrange audio Chromecast-enabled devices into groups for multi-room streaming, and performance, in my experience, is very solid and consistent.
The Big Blue Party Speaker is likewise a solid performer when it comes to its built-in Wi-Fi and Chromecast connection, at least in my experience. It also indicates when it’s connected to Wi-Fi clearly via simple LEDs located on the top of the device, so you can check visually when you’re ready to start streaming.
Set up is a cinch because it’s a Chromecast device, which means you basically plug it in, press the power button (that huge circle in the center of the speaker’s front) and then wait for it to boot. Once it’s fully powered on, you just open the Google Home app on any iOS or Android device, make sure Wi-Fi and Bluetooth are enabled on that phone or tablet, and it’ll appear automatically with a request to set up.

When you’re ready to stream, prepare to be really blown away by how good the sound quality is. I wasn’t really expecting this level of performance, to be honest, since I’m a bit of an audio snob with a number of audio receivers and passive speakers, each of which costs more on its own than the Big Blue. The sound is great, however, and truly room-filling, with great upper volume capabilities without any noticeable muddying. The sound here is clear, too, and doesn’t try to disguise flaws through overemphasis of base like so many other wireless audio gadgets.
It sounds good outside, too, which is another tricky feat to pull off. This really is the party speaker you’re going to want, especially when it comes to partying in a place where you’ve got a big group and no neighbors to worry about.
To put it simply, this speaker is terrific. It’s a great value for the money, even if it costs a bit more than some of the perfectly capable $100 Bluetooth speakers out there, and you get that Chromecast functionality that makes it easy to add it to an existing multi-room setup (or start a new one from scratch). It’s also a great option for Father’s Day, in case you’re looking for a gift that’ll satisfy even the most audiophile father figure.
Investors greeted ShotSpotter with a warm reception on Wednesday, on its first day as a public company. After pricing the IPO at $11, the stock closed at $13.86, or up about 26 percent.
ShotSpotter notifies police departments about gun violence by using sensors that ignore ambient noise. Their sophisticated technology alerts authorities within 45 seconds of the trigger being pulled.
It’s currently used in about 90 cities, including New York, Chicago and San Francisco. ShotSpotter estimates that about 80 percent of gun violence goes unreported, and they are in the process of convincing municipalities worldwide that their technology will reduce fatalities.
According to CEO Ralph Clark, it’s not just about catching assailants, but they hope to deter crime also. “No police response leads to normalization of gun violence,” he claims.
ShotSpotter makes money by charging local governments on an annual subscription basis. According to their IPO filing, they had just $15.5 million in revenue last year and $11.8 million the year before. Losses increased from $6.2 million to $6.9 million in that time frame.
That is likely why the IPO was so small, raising just over $30 million. They will be using some of the proceeds to pay down debt.
But they are optimistic they will expand to more cities, because clearly “gun violence is a fairly big problem in the U.S. and globally,” said Clark. “We want to continue to invest in customer success,” he said.
The largest stakeholders are Lauder Partners, Motorola Solutions and Claremont Creek Ventures. The Mountain View, Calif.-based company previously raised at least $67 million in funding. 

 Craig Berg / EyeEm/Getty Images
In a Senate Select Intelligence Committee hearing that often veered off route, two of the nation’s most powerful intelligence figures made their case for extending a controversial portion of the Foreign Surveillance Intelligence Act (FISA) known as Section 702. Section 702, which allows the government to intercept the communications of foreign intelligence targets, is set to expire on December 31 unless it is reauthorized by Congress.
NSA Director Michael Rogers broke down two scenarios in which the core controversy, namely the incidental violation of the right to privacy for U.S. citizens, comes up. He claimed that in 90 percent of cases, that form of collection is a result of two foreign targets who talk about a third person who is in the U.S. As Rogers tells it, 10 percent of the time a foreign target ends up talking to an American citizen. Because American citizens have Fourth Amendment rights, running into Americans in the course of foreign surveillance creates the sticky situation known as incidental collection, a major focus for privacy advocates seeking reform.
In the course of justifying Section 702 as an invaluable tool for counterterrorism and counterproliferation efforts, Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats claimed that agencies have made “herculean” efforts to get a count on how many Americans have been affected, but in spite of those efforts it remains impossible. He went on to undermine his argument by implying that it probably would be possible, but that he chooses not to allocate resources to the task when the intelligence community could be focusing on imminent concerns in countries like Iran and North Korea. “I can’t justify such a diversion of critical resources,” Coats said.
He went on to note that without Section 702, intelligence agencies would have to obtain a court order issued due to probable cause — ostensibly the bar that needs to be cleared in order to surveil U.S. citizens. “That’s a relatively higher threshold than we require to foreign intelligence information,” Coats said, noting that he’d prefer not to need to clear the Fourth Amendment bar when investigating foreign targets.
In a broad appeal on 702’s utility, Rogers went so far as to claim that 702 “[created] insights on the Russian involvement in 2016 election,” providing intelligence that would otherwise not have been possible.
On Tuesday, Senate Republicans introduced a bill that would make Section 702 permanent rather than a program that requires regular review and sunsets after a predetermined period of time.  “We can’t handcuff our national-security officials when they’re fighting against such a vicious enemy,” Arkansas Senator Tom Cotton said in defense of the bill. A day later, President Trump’s Homeland Security Advisor Tom Bossert penned an editorial for The New York Times throwing the White House’s support behind efforts to reinstate Section 702 permanently.
Oregon Senator Ron Wyden has called for answers on how many Americans have been swept up by Section 702 just about every chance he gets. In today’s hearing, he again pressed the intelligence leads to clarify how the intelligence community is working to identify the scope of Section 702’s incidental collection concerns.
Following the hearing, Wyden issued the following statement:
“What the director said today is in my view a 180-degree retreat from what he said earlier and what his predecessor said earlier. It reflects a misunderstanding of what this is about. You can’t say that there’s no impact from sweeping up law-abiding Americans’ communications under this program, and then complain that counting the number of those calls and emails would violate their privacy. That just doesn’t pass the smell test. I won’t stop pushing for real transparency about this end-run around the Fourth Amendment.”
While the hearing was explicitly intended to focus on FISA, its timing — a day before former FBI Director James Comey will testify for the first time since his firing — led Senators to frequently derail conversation around the intended topic. Seizing the opportunity, Senators from both sides of the aisle pressed the intelligence chiefs about reports that President Trump had approached them in order to influence the ongoing investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election. Rogers and Coats repeatedly declined to answer, even as Coats admitted that he was not sure he had a legal basis for doing so.

 SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images
Project Wing, the X project from Google (now housed under mutual parent Alphabet) that focuses on drone delivery, just shared a key update in its efforts to make everyday drone delivery a reality: The company completed a series of tests organized by the FAA and NASA to help test air traffic management capabilities for Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS), which will be necessary if we’re ever going to get to a point where vehicles zip through the air without direct piloting, delivering packages and other goods as part of a largely automated network.
Project Wing is preparing for a future in which it and others operate fleets of drones numbering in the thousands, delivering packages and serving other functions, while also intelligently navigating in and around buildings, weather and other UAVs. The resulting symphony will require sophisticated coordination, and the system that Wing tested on Tuesday this week at the test site operated by Virginia Tech showed exactly that: A single Wing operator controlled three Wing drones simultaneously for separate pickup and delivery missions, while also navigating with two Intel drones and a DJI Inspire, all sharing the same general airspace.

The demonstration showed how Wing’s traffic management platform could automatically plot the paths of all these vehicles, and intelligently update and adapt those paths on the fly, in real-world outdoor flying conditions. Efforts to create this platform have been focused on addressing route planning for co-located drones, notifications about unexpected changes in routes for remote operators and airspace alerts and route corrections that can update in response to things like forest fires.
Next up, Wing will be looking to add support for more simultaneous flights, and environments with more going on (these tests took place in fairly open air, far from busy urban centers). It’s early days yet, but this is a key ingredient in making everyday drone delivery something that’s palatable to regulators and safe for city dwellers.
The judge in the lawsuit between Uber and Waymo, the self-driving car subsidiary of Google’s parent company Alphabet, denied Uber’s request for a stay pending its appeal for arbitration. That means the case is still on track to go to trial in early October, as previously planned.
In court today, District Judge William Alsup of the Northern District of California re-affirmed the court date, put a limit on new discovery requests and urged both parties in the case to figure out their differences on that front.
Finally, Alsup defended his earlier order for Uber to do everything in its power to get Anthony Levandowski, the engineer at the center of the case, to comply with discovery requests and to return any confidential material he may have taken from Waymo before leaving the company.
Waymo alleges Levandowski stole trade secrets related to its autonomous driving technology, which were later used in the creation of his own self-driving truck startup Otto. Because Uber acquired Otto for nearly $700 million last summer, the implication is that those trade secrets found their way into Uber’s own autonomous driving unit.
Uber had previously argued — unsuccessfully — that the lawsuit should head to arbitration due to a clause in Levandowski’s employment contract. It later appealed that decision and was seeking a stay in the case while the appeals process was underway. Alsup’s ruling this morning effectively denied a pause in the proceedings while waiting for an appeals court to hear the case, and also re-affirmed an October 2 court date for the trial to get underway.
With less than four months between now and the scheduled proceedings, Alsup also urged both parties to limit the scope of the suit, put a limit on discovery requests and move forward in complying with existing requests.
Speaking to the counsel for Waymo, Alsup also suggested the company severely curtail — or drop entirely — the patent claims it’s making as part of the case.
“I think you’re going to lose on all these patent claims unless you pull a rabbit out of a hat,” Alsup said. “You’re the one who wants the trial date… You’re the one who should streamline this.” 
Otherwise, he argued, “you’ll burn up a lot of time and effort for things that will end up as a distraction.” Instead, he suggested Waymo counsel spend more time and energy trying to obtain the documents Waymo claims were part of the due diligence process in the Uber-Otto acquisition to find out what Uber knew and when.
On the flip side, Alsup said Uber’s defense would depend on showing that the alleged trade secrets Waymo has accused Levandowski of stealing were not secrets after all, but part of the public domain and something that any good autonomous engineer would know.
Much of today’s hearing was focused on the discovery aspect of the case, which Alsup has (for the most part) turned over to Magistrate Judge Jacqueline Scott Corley. Still, Uber counsel argued that the nature of Waymo’s discovery process was onerous, citing 265 requests that it is already trying to respond to, as well as additional follow-ups it expects.
In response, Alsup once again referred all document discovery requests to the magistrate and the special master, and told the parties there should be no more document requests until further notice. 
Finally, Alsup turned to the topic of Levandowski, specifically the argument that the court’s order compelling Uber to get him to turn over any documents taken from Waymo unconstitutionally violated his fifth amendment rights against self-incrimination.
Following a court order, Uber threatened Levandowski with termination if he did not comply with its investigation and return any Waymo-owned materials to his previous employer. When he failed to comply by Uber’s deadline, the company followed through on its threat and fired Levandowski late last month.
Because of this, Levandowski’s counsel argued that an agent of the government was forcing a private citizen to choose between his Fifth Amendment rights and continued employment.
After hearing from counsel for Levandowski, Uber and Waymo, Alsup ruled from the bench. The issue was moot, he said, because “Uber had its own investigation going and for its own reasons found that Mr. Levandowski should be fired for not complying with that investigation.”
Alsup implored those in court to consider what kind of mischief would arise if people working at private companies could claim the Fifth Amendment when party to any internal investigation and could remain employed while not complying with those investigations.
“A private employer… can say to its employee, ‘Either you comply with this investigation or we can terminate you,’ ” Alsup said. As a result, he said he continues to stand behind the previous order and would not change anything about it.

 Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
WeWork, the seven-year-old, New York-based co-working juggernaut that more recently entered into the business of co-living, has been making a series of small acquisitions with some of the $1.8 billion that it has officially gathered from investors.
Its latest acquisition: Fieldlens, a 5.5-year-old mobile communication system for the construction industry that aims to replace calls, texts, emails and all the other back and forth that’s typically sent between building owners, contractors, subcontractors, architects and everyone else involved in a construction project.
WeWork was already one of Fieldlens’ biggest customers and, as an early adopter — says WeWork’s chief product officer, David Fano, in a new blog post about the acquisition — the company has “seen first-hand what connected front-line teams can accomplish.”
(In the past, WeWork signed traditional lease agreements with landlords. But according to our recent interview with CEO Adam Neumann, as the company has grown, more landlords have agreed to pay for WeWork to design the spaces into which it’s moving; in exchange, the two sides split profits down the middle. This is especially true in India and Israel, where WeWork has entered more recently, Neumann says.)
Neither WeWork nor Fieldlens are sharing financial details, but a source close to WeWork says the company has brought aboard all of Fieldlens’s 25 employees, minus several sales reps.
According to Crunchbase, New York-based Fieldlens — which was founded by Doug Chambers, formerly of Tishman Construction, and Matt Sena, a Goldman Sachs analyst — had raised roughly $12.6 million from investors. Its backers include OpenView, SoftBank and Primary Venture Partners.
Other WeWork acquisitions include Welkio, a digital sign-in system for guests at an office, picked up last year; and Case, a building information modeling and consultancy firm that WeWork acquired in 2015. Terms of those deals were not disclosed, either.
Asked what will happen to Fieldlens’s current product, which is used by thousands of customers in the building trade, we’re told WeWork has no immediate plans to either change or sunset it.
A top Uber executive has been fired after obtaining medical records of a female passenger who was raped during a ride in India, Recode reports.
The Uber executive at the center of the report, Eric Alexander, served as the company’s president of business in Asia Pacific.
The incident involves a 26-year-old female passenger who was assaulted and raped during a ride in Delhi in late 2014. The violent crime resulted in the immediate ban of the Uber service in Delhi; the ban was lifted several months later. The driver was arrested and later sentenced to life in prison.
Though the company was publicly remorseful at the time, saying in a statement that it would “work with the community, with government and the technology industry to find more ways to promote safety in transportation, particularly for women,” Alexander was meanwhile reportedly on his way to India seeking the medical records of the victim in an effort to come to his own conclusions.
Alexander later shared the records with CEO Travis Kalanick and SVP Emil Michael, according to the report. The executives reportedly began to discuss the idea that Uber competitor Ola was behind the incident in an effort to damage the company’s operations in the country.
The report further notes:

Some Uber staffers who were told about the medical report by them were disturbed to hear the executives were considering the scenario, based on their reading of the medical report, that the woman’s story was not true.
“Travis never should have looked at the report and he should have fired him immediately,” said one executive of Alexander.

Alexander is no longer with the company, an Uber spokesperson confirmed to TechCrunch.
It’s unclear the exact timing of Alexander’s firing. Claims involving the incident with Alexander were among those involved in the recent independent Uber investigation into reports surrounding sexual harassment and other workplace malpractice, which resulted in the firing of 20 employees.

 Radiokafka/Shutterstock
When you think of central Ohio, you might not think “hotbed of innovation.” But you’re going to want to rethink that. This summer, a 35-mile stretch of U.S. Route 33 outside of Marysville, Ohio, will be wired to test vehicle to infrastructure (V2I) communications.
“A year ago, we had zero plan for all this,” said Eric Phillips in a phone interview. He’s the executive director for the Union County Community Improvement Corporation and the CEO of the Union County Chamber of Commerce. “It started as a fiber connectivity project.”
Marysville is an exurb of Columbus, which won $50 million in funding for its Smart Columbus project. Columbus is also home to Ohio State University, which is working on a smart mobility initiative. Honda‘s manufacturing base for North America is just northwest of Marysville. And the Transportation Research Center and NHTSA Vehicle Research Test Center are at the opposite end of the corridor in East Liberty. Along this stretch of Route 33 between East Liberty and Dublin lies a cluster of about 50 other automotive businesses.
So the idea began with connectivity. But researchers at OSU wondered if it was possible to improve mobility options without “adding lanes all the time,” as Phillips put it. This was an opportunity to test connected autonomous vehicles along a route stacked with interested parties.
With a $6 million grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation, local matching funds and a $15 million investment from Ohio, the NW 33 Innovation Corridor was born. It will indeed begin with the installation of redundant fiber cable, and DSRC transmitters will be in place by the end of 2018. Government and private fleet vehicles will be retrofitted with equipment to communicate with the corridor and each other.
Other companies, including Honda, can also use the corridor to test V2I communications in real-world conditions. Phillips acknowledged that collecting data on Route 33 “can be boring” compared to testing in city-like “playgrounds.” But semi-autonomous and autonomous vehicles are likely to be used on boring roads before they’re allowed in urban areas.
Testing will begin when the pieces are in place to do so. Phillips said DSRC transmitters will be spaced every 600 meters along the route. Autonomous and connected vehicles can take advantage of the route, including those that can “platoon” one behind another. It also gives businesses the opportunity to collect data and test commercialization strategies.
Wind River, for instance, announced today that it will be using the 33 Smart Corridor to test connected and autonomous technologies in partnership with OSU, the Transportation Research Center and the city of Dublin. In its press release, Wind River, a subsidiary of Intel that specializes in software for the Internet of Things, notes that Central Ohio is an emerging hub for smart city and smart vehicle tech.
“We can’t keep adding lanes to highways,” Phillips reiterated, noting that car sharing will play a role in traffic congestion in the future, as well. “All I’ve heard is positive; I have not heard anything negative about this,” he said of his community. “Businesses are very excited about the opportunity.”
As Phillips pointed out, “We have a strong automotive industry, and we’ve got to support its growth. We’ve got to keep up. Electric vehicles are only one part [of the future of transportation]; the other is mobility and how to improve it. We have to accept it in order to not be way behind.”

 PRNewswire/Wind River
Today in trademark news, Microsoft has filed for a trademark that may give us our first glimpse of the new Project Scorpio… logo.
No, it’s not nearly as exciting as pre-E3 leaks/spottings could be, but it’s something.
As first spotted by FragHero, Microsoft filed for a trademark with the European Union Intellectual Property Office for the below logo, describing it for use in computer game software and video game consoles.

Now, that could mean it’s the logo for Project Scorpio, which folks expect to be officially called Xbox S. The logo could also be a refresh to the Xbox One S, revealed in August of last year.
Project Scorpio is Microsoft’s soon-to-be-announced console, the next in the illustrious line of Xbox models, and is expected to be the biggest news coming out of E3 next week.
E3 goes down next week, and Microsoft is scheduled to hold a press event at 2pm PT on Sunday, which should give us a full picture of Redmond’s next gaming console.
When an app developer releases a new update in the App Store, all their beautiful reviews disappear in the ether. This is about to change as developers will soon have the option to keep app reviews and the rating for the current version when they release an update.
Apple SVP of Worldwide Marketing Phil Schiller talked about the reasoning behind this at John Gruber’s The Talk Show event in San Jose.
Limiting reviews to the most recent version made sense a few years ago. For instance, a 2010 review of Instagram is now irrelevant because the app has changed so much. That’s why Apple chose to reset reviews with new versions.
App developers wouldn’t release a new version very often anyway as App Store approval would usually take a week. But this doesn’t make any sense now that apps are approved in a matter of hours.
So if you find a bug in your code, you can now release a fix in a day or even less. By making the App Store better, Apple made its rating reset policy problematic. Some developers currently prefer to wait for bigger changes before releasing a bug fix as the tiny update would reset their App Store ratings.
With this change coming with iOS 11 in September, nothing is going to stop you from releasing updates early and often. You can release as many incremental versions as you want without resetting the ratings.
And if you release a major new version that drastically changes the core features of your app, you can press the big button to reset the App Store ratings. So your app doesn’t have to be perfect from the very beginning, you can still release a v2 and clean your ratings.
A new initiative from Facebook will provide aid organizations with location data for users in affected areas, such as where people are marking themselves safe and from where they are fleeing. It shows the immense potential of this kind of fine-grained tracking, but inescapably resurfaces questions of just what else the company could do with the data.
In a blog post and video, Facebook’s public policy research manager Molly Jackman describes the new “disaster maps” that will be provided to UNICEF, the International Red Cross and Red Crescent, and the World Food Program to start.
Essentially there will be three types of information provided — sourced, presumably, from GPS and other location indicators provided whenever a Facebook user does just about anything.
Location density maps will provide rough but recent estimations of where people are distributed, which can be compared to earlier such maps or other measures.
Movement maps show how users changed locations, from neighborhood to neighborhood or city to city, and when — this could help direct urgent resources to ad hoc gathering spots or bottlenecks.
Safety Check maps show where people have marked themselves safe; if they’re clustering in one area, that may be indicate the limits of a flood’s effects, or a region undamaged by an earthquake.
One can easily imagine how useful this type of up-to-date information could be to anyone trying to figure out where to send fresh water, set up emergency shelters and so on. Of course, the data is aggregated and de-identified, and the partner organizations must “respect our privacy standards,” Jackman wrote.
But on the other hand, when Facebook flexes its data muscles for good like this, suspicious minds begin to think along other lines.
What other kinds of population movements does Facebook track, perhaps to better inform advertisers? How can users know if their location is being roped into this kind of experimental data silo? Does this include information gleaned from Facebook plug-ins and cookies? Who has access to the data, and at what level of granularity and de-identification?
The company is under no formal obligation to explain itself, and I don’t want to suggest any ill purpose exactly. But it’s always troubling when, given a tool that can very easily be used for both humanitarian purposes and self-serving ones, we only hear about the former.
As usual, unless Facebook and other major data hoarders like Google specifically say they aren’t using your data for something, it’s best to assume that they are.

 Facebook
In March, video game streaming site Twitch introduced a new way for its streamers to make money: by selling games directly to their fans. Initially, however, that feature was only available to Twitch’s Partners – that is, the site’s top-tier streamers with large audiences. Today, Twitch is adding game sales to its newly launched Twitch Affiliate program, as well.
The affiliate program was introduced last month as a means of giving streamers who weren’t large enough to gain “Partner” status a way to make money from their efforts. At launch, Twitch Affiliates could generate revenue through Twitch’s virtual “tipping” option, Cheering with Bits. But the company promised that more tools would become available to Affiliates in time.
Selling video games to fans will essentially work the same for Twitch Affiliates as it does for Twitch Partners. The idea is that streamers can showcase the titles they’re playing, giving fans the opportunity to purchase the games in question right from the site. That turns streamers into a crowdsourced advertising team of sorts for game publishers, while shifting Amazon-owned Twitch into more of an online retailer and game distributor, as well.
Affiliates, like Partners, will display the titles and other in-game content for sale, on their Channel pages on the site. They’ll also earn 5 percent on game purchases. (Another 70 percent goes to game publishers, and Twitch keeps the rest.)
Games are also available from the game’s detail page at any time. The games are downloaded via Twitch’s desktop app.
At launch, Twitch was offering around 50 titles available for sale from game publishers large and small.

This included titles like Ubisoft’s For Honor and Tom Clancy’s Ghost Recon: Wildlands; Telltale Games’ The Walking Dead and Minecraft: Story Mode; Hi-Rez Studios’ SMITE and Paladins; Paradox Interactive’s Tyranny; Trion Worlds’ Atlas Reactor; Double Fine Productions’ Broken Age and Psychonauts; Campo Santo’s Firewatch; Jackbox Games’ Jackbox Party Pack 3; and Digital Extremes’ Warframe, and others.
Today, Twitch tells us it has nearly doubled its lineup to include close to a hundred titles. Some of the newer additions include a Twitch exclusive Warframe Prominence bundle and Bob Ross skins for SMITE. 
The company is also kicking off the expansion of game sales by giving out double the Twitch Crates for the week ahead. Crates are an incentive Twitch uses to encourage game sales on its site, by offering other content along with the game itself, like its emotes, chat badges, and Bits.
Twitch declined to say how popular game sales have been on its site since their debut, given how early the company is into this new area of its business.
The move into game sales gives streamers another way to make money – something that’s needed to grow a strong creator community. However, the changes could also have an impact on the type of content featured on Twitch – subtly shifting streamers to favor those games from publishers working with Twitch over the ones they would have otherwise chosen.
Twitch Affiliates will be a much larger group than Partners, which greatly expands Twitch’s ability to sell games. While there are only 17,000 Partners out of a total of 2.2 million unique streamers per month, Twitch invited “tens of thousands” of non-Partnered channels to its Affiliate program.
Twitch Affiliates will have the ability to sell games on the site, starting today.
Below is Twitch’s original announcement about game sales:



The total market cap for all cryptocurrencies just surpassed $100 billion. The vast majority of these gains have come in just the last few months — on April 1st the total market cap was just over $25 billion — representing a 300 percent increase in value in just over 60 days.
While some of these gains are from bitcoin itself (BTC is up ~160 percent in the same two-month time frame), other digital currencies like Ethereum are also responsible for the increase, which on its own has increased ~439 percent over the last two months.
There’s perhaps no better way to show this diversity in gains than by looking at a chart of bitcoin’s “dominance” — i.e. what percent of the entire cryptocurrency market cap is represented by bitcoin. For years this had always hovered around 80 percent, but in the last few months has fallen to below 50 percent — with currencies like Ethereum and Ripple taking its place.
Source: coinmarketcap.com
 
Bubble talk? 
It’s hard to be an experienced investor, or even an at-home part-time trader, and not think of a massive bubble when you see that some asset has increased more than 400 percent in just a few months. It’s just how history works — when an asset rises that fast it’s a near certainty that it will come back down. Markets are irrational, after all.
So don’t be surprised if there’s at least some type of correction. There already was, a few weeks ago — bitcoin pulled back from a high of $2,700 to around $2,000, but, as of today, has slowly climbed back up to a new all-time high of ~$2,850..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



That being said, we may look back in 12 months and realize that this two-month period of insane growth was less of a bubble and more of a rebirth of cryptocurrencies as a whole.
The fact that these gains have come from currencies other than bitcoin are a good sign that this is less of a bubble and more of a resurgence of interest in crypto. It makes sense that Ethereum is on a tear — the cryptocurrency has technological improvements over bitcoin, including the ability to code smart contracts directly into the blockchain, which in turn allow for things like the ability to build totally new tokens and even host ICOs (initial coin offerings).
The public has never been able to put their money directly into a technology that has so much potential but is still developing.
And similarly, Ripple, a cryptocurrency based on inter-bank settlements, has signed up more than 100 banks worldwide. Even if this takes a while to implement (which anyone who works in the old-school banking industry will confirm), it’s still tangible news and a reason for people to get excited about the currency.
These recent developments certainly don’t justify increases of 400 percent in 60 days. Both Ethereum and Ripple have been around for a lot longer than a few months. So if these were publicly traded companies, there would be (almost) no reason for drastic rise in value. But cryptocurrencies are new — most of the world has no idea what bitcoin is, let alone Ethereum and Ripple and other currencies.

The public has never been able to put their money directly into a technology that has so much potential but is still developing.
For example, a technology enthusiast in the 1990s may have foreseen the rise of the internet, but had no way to directly take a stake in the technology. The idea of applying cryptography to the storage and transmission of data is still very new. And the fact that anyone can directly buy the currency that powers these cryptographically secured blockchains is much like the public actually getting a chance to invest in the internet during its infancy.
Impossible to value?
There is one rational explanation that, if true, would totally justify this rapid increase in price across some of the major cryptocurrencies. And that is, maybe these currencies are actually worth these high prices, and maybe even worth many times more than that at which they are currently trading.
But the problem is we have no way to figure out their value. Cryptocurrencies aren’t public companies with earnings and expenses and EPS. For example, we can look at Apple’s financials and determine its book value — what the company’s assets would be worth if hypothetically liquidated today. Of course, stocks trade at a premium to this, because people are enthusiastic that Apple will continue to perform well and this book value will continue to rise.
But we can’t do this with cryptocurrencies. We could guess — and compare it to things like the total money or gold supply in the U.S. For example, if you’re someone who thinks of cryptocurrencies as a store of value, the total estimated value of all gold in the world is more than $8 trillion dollars… meaning if bitcoin would ever replace or supplant gold, its current value is pennies on the dollar.
If you’re someone who thinks of cryptocurrencies as a genuine currency, you could compare the market cap to M2, which is the total money supply in the U.S. — cash and checking accounts, as well as “near-money” accounts like savings, mutual funds and money-market securities. The total value of M2 is about $13.5 trillion, also meaning cryptocurrencies are just a small fraction of that.
Be an informed “investor”
I’ve long cautioned readers (and friends) from buying cryptocurrencies because they have seen it rise and just want to make a quick buck. The past two months have led to a tremendous surge in public interest, with mainstream news like CNBC and CNN explaining how to “invest” in bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.
Just make sure you’re doing it for the right reasons. Buy cryptocurrency to learn about it and transact with it. Or buy it because you are betting that this new technology will change the world by:

Supplanting gold as the main store of value in the world
Transforming inter-bank settlements
Making international remittance affordable
Revolutionizing the fundraising and IPO process

These are just a few options, and if you’re in tune with the cryptocurrency world, you’ll know the opportunities are endless. So if you’re going to buy cryptocurrency, do it because you see the long-term vision (and sure, ostensibly the financial gains that may come from them), not because you think it will blindly appreciate and give you a good return on your “investment.”
The author holds bitcoin and Ethereum and other smaller cryptocurrencies. 



Airbnb is rolling out a new feature today that will make check-in easier for guests and hosts alike.
Up until now, checking in to an Airbnb listing was one of the sloppiest, most human components of the Airbnb user flow. Hosts would point guests to their check-in instructions on their listing page, or send instructions to guests about how to get the key, notes about how to enter the building and listing, and other useful check-in information. In fact, Airbnb says that check-in was one of the primary uses for photos in Airbnb messages.
Given all the redundancy in messaging each individual guest, hosts started to create their own docs or PDFs with clear instructions to send to guests.
But Airbnb is finally stepping in with a helping hand. The company is today introducing an integrated check-in flow within the app and on the web that will show detailed, step-by-step instructions on how to check in to a listing for all hosts that opt-in to the feature. Airbnb will send an email three days before the guest’s trip with the same instructions.

This way, hosts can set up comprehensive check-in instructions that are sent to guests automatically instead of all the back-and-forth, copy-and-paste messaging they used before.
It’s a small update, but one that should make a big difference to hosts who use the home-sharing service frequently.

 Chesnot / Contributor/Getty Images UNDER A Chesnot / Contributor LICENSE
Pressboard is a native ad marketplace that brings together brands and publishers on a single, streamlined platform that allows them to go from commissioning content and getting it edited to tracking if it’s catching on with readers after it has been published. No matter whether you love or hate native content (and most writers and publishers I know have a complicated relationship with it), revenues from traditional display advertising continue to decline for most publishers, and native ads are one of the few new revenue opportunities for them.
Pressboard, which launched in 2014, today announced that it has raised a $2 million funding round led by Vancouver Founder Fund, with participation from all of its existing investors, to help it expand its marketplace. The company’s CEO and co-founder Jerrid Grimm tells me that Pressboard currently has more than 300 publishers on its platform. These include the likes of Mashable, Vox Media, Business Insider, the Toronto Star and Thrillist. The brands the company works with include GE, Ford, General Mills and Chase, and the company says it has now helped these brands create more than 1,200 custom stories.



Pressboard - Dashboard




Pressboard - Marketplace screenshot2




Pressboard - Stories2




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


With the new funding, Pressboard plans to expand its marketing and partnership teams in its offices in Vancouver, Toronto and New York, but what’s maybe even more interesting is that it also plans to put more resources into its Pressbot service. Pressbot uses all the data the Pressboard platform currently gathers (and Grimm tells me the company built its own analytics system). Pressbot looks at headlines, the story’s topics, sentiment and readability — among dozens of other characteristics — and matches that up with its analytics to predict how well a story will do before it’s been published. This may make some writers and publishers nervous, but it’s definitely something brands would like to use when they commission this kind of content.
As Grimm noted when I talked to him ahead of today’s announcement, the traditional method of buying native ads tends to be rather convoluted and manual. The idea behind Pressboard is to automate as much of this process as possible and streamline the sales process.
“The hundreds of brand stories created through Pressboard’s Marketplace have already demonstrated the true power of branded content,” Grimm noted in today’s announcement. “With the space forecasted to grow from $12B last year to $50B by 2021, the technology required to make these campaigns efficient and measurable was missing. Pressboard fills that gap.”

 Sonia Martinez / EyeEm/Getty Images
Reedsy provides everything you need to turn your first draft into a book. And it turns out that ebooks aren’t overtaking good old paper books just yet. Reedsy partnered with Blurb so that you can send your finished book to Blurb, get it printed and sell it online.
At heart, Reedsy remains a marketplace of professionals in the publishing industries. If you’re a writer, you can find editors, designers, marketing experts and more. And if you’re a freelancer in one of those fields, you can find clients.
Last year, the company launched a book editor that tracks changes to collaborate with your partners. But the nice side effect is that your text is already ready to be exported. In just a few clicks, you can export your book to a format compatible with the Kindle Store and iBookstore. Reedsy’s book editor can also export a ready-to-print PDF.
Blurb has optimized its uploader with Reedsy’s specifications and helps you put a barcode at the back of your book. This way, you know for sure that your book is going to look good. Then you’re ready to sell your book on Amazon and elsewhere.
As both companies share the same mission of making book publishing more accessible, it makes sense that they’d collaborate on something like this.
Facebook this year has launched a number of features that make it easier for people to reach their government representatives on its social network, including “Town Hall,” and related integrations with News Feed, as well as ways to share reps’ contact info in your own posts. Today, the company is expanding on these initiatives with those designed for elected officials themselves. The new tools will help officials connect with their constituents, as well as better understand which issues their constituents care about most.
Specifically, the social network is rolling out three new features: constituent badges, constituent insights, and district targeting.
Constituent badges are a new, opt-in feature that allow Facebook users to identify themselves as a person living in the district the elected official represents. Facebook determines whether or not someone is a constituent based on the address information provided either in Town Hall, or as part of the process used to turn on the badges.

While anyone could enter a fake address and pretend to be a constituent, Facebook has put controls in place to limit those bad actors. For starters, Facebook users can only be a verified constituent based on one address at a time – and, if a person changes their address, their badge is removed from prior posts. Facebook also limits the number of times an address can be changed, we understand.
The idea with the badges is to make it easier for elected officials to determine which Facebook comments, questions and concerns are being shared by those they actually represent. Whether or not they’ll treat these sentiments with the same degree of importance as they would a phone call, email, or letter remains to be seen.
Facebook users will be prompted to turn on constituent badges when they like or comment on posts by their reps through a unit that appears on the page. Alternately, users can go to the Town Hall section on Facebook to turn on the badge themselves.
Once enabled, badges will appear anytime a person comments on content shared by their own representatives.

A second feature called Constituent Insights is designed to help elected officials learn which local news stories and content is popular in their district, so they can share their thoughts on those matters.
This will be available to the reps through a new Page Insights feature, available to Page admins, which includes a horizontally scrollable section where locally trending news stories appear. Here, the elected officials can click a link to post that story to their Facebook Page, along with their thoughts on the issue.
Additionally, constituents will be able to browse through these same stories on a new Community tab on the official’s Facebook Page.
The third new feature – District Targeting – is arguably the most notable.
This effectively gives elected officials the means of gathering feedback from their constituents through Facebook directly, using either posts or polls that are targeted only towards those who actually live in their particular district.
That means the official can post to Facebook to ask for feedback from constituents about an issue, and these posts will only be viewable by those who live in their district.
Of course, this also means that the elected official would be taking an active – even proactive – role in engaging with their community and constituent base, rather than waiting for constituents to reach out to their office with their thoughts, as is often the case today.
Overall, the combination of Town Hall with these new features aimed at government officials represent a growing effort at Facebook to become more involved in the political process and the dialog surrounding policy issues.

The changes also follow Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s nearly 6,000-word manifesto on Facebook earlier this year where he discussed a number of ambitions for the social network in the days ahead, including one focused on how Facebook could be used to increase civic engagement.
In part, these moves are a reaction to the role Facebook played in the U.S. elections, where it did nothing to curb the widespread sharing of disinformation across its network – something that many have claimed helped contribute to Trump’s win.
On that front, Facebook has rolled out a number of new controls, include things like PSAs in the News Feed about how to identify fake news stories; displays of related articles and fact checkers before links are opened; displays of alternative news sources in its Trending section: and it’s  downranking fake news stories to make them less visible.
Meanwhile, it has also rolled out features to help Facebook users become more politically engaged (instead of just enraged), by helping them find and contact reps, and more.
Facebook says all three new features are rolling out starting today.
Payments startup Klarna is ramping up its valuation again as it picks up a new, strategic investor. Last valued at $2.25 billion in 2015, the company today announced that Brightfolk, controlled by fashion tycoon Anders Holch Povlsen, is becoming a “qualified owner” of Klarna — that is, buying up at least 10 percent of the company.
This is a secondary deal: Specifically, Povlsen is buying shares from existing investors General Atlantic, DST Global and co-founder Niklas Adalberth, all of whom still retain stakes as Klarna shareholders after the transaction.
At Klarna’s $2.25 billion valuation, Brightfolk’s 10 percent+ stake is valued at $225 million or more. But while the company is not commenting on any of the financial terms of today’s deal, TechCrunch understands that this is an “up” round, with the valuation now higher than $2.25 billion.
Klarna enables payments on third-party websites and apps, with flexible purchasing options such as paying upon delivery or over time (it also handles the finance, and says it is the largest company of its kind doing that), and, perhaps uniquely among finance startups, it is already profitable.
That is not surprising. According to an investor deck from 2016 that TechCrunch was passed by a source last month — which, incidentally confirms the $2.25 billion valuation and $80 million fundraise, which had only been reported up to now — Klarna had processed transactions from 45 million users from 65,000 merchants in 18 countries, equivalent to 400,000 transactions per day.
That worked out to 2,776 million Swedish kronor in revenues ($318 million) in 2015 and SEK170 million ($19 million) in EBT margin (6.1 percent).
And as of today, those numbers have grown. The company says it has to date processed transactions from 60 million users in Europe and North America across 70,000 merchants. It also has taken on more assets to expand its footprint: specifically in February it acquired from Wonga a PayPal competitor in Germany called BillPay for $75 million.
Klarna said it also has seen transactions grow 50 percent year-on-year in 2016, with 37 percent growth in Q1 of 2017. Volume growth was up 44 percent in 2016, with 39 percent growth in Q1 of 2017. In the last quarter it also added 17,000 new merchants. Klarna, a spokesperson tells me, has “consistently solid profitability, which has always be case with Klarna from beginning.”
While we have been told there are no large new equity rounds in Klarna’s immediate future, the company has been focused on a stream of extra financing at smaller sums and secondary investments.
In March, Klarna took a $5.2 million investment from Creandum at its previous valuation; and it’s been reported that the company also is looking to raise an additional $57 million, partly to finance the BillPay acquisition.
This latest transaction, we understand, is separate to that and brings a new strategic player into the mix. Povlsen owns fashion conglomerate Bestseller, which in turn owns a number of brands, including Jack & Jones, Vero Moda, Only and Selected.
These sell in brick-and-mortar stores and online. He also has holdings in online fashion portals ASOS and Zalando. Klarna already works with these companies in some markets and is likely to be looking at ways of expanding that.
“As Klarna continues its path towards a smoother shopping experience, few people could be a better fit than Anders Holch Povlsen. Klarna has successfully been partnering with BESTSELLER for a number of years. This has given him a firsthand insight into the strengths of our offerings and therefore a unique ability to strategically support the future development of the company. I am delighted to welcome such a strong partner into Klarna,” Sebastian Siemiatkowski, co-founder and CEO of Klarna, said in a statement.
More generally, Klarna’s rising valuation comes at a key time in the world of online commerce and payments. While companies like PayPal (traded publicly and currently with a market cap of nearly $64 billion) and Stripe (last valued around $9 billion) continue to be used widely for basic payments, there are others like Klarna that are not only providing the payment basics but are bringing in alternative financing to build out processing volume and margins.
Other startups in the same area include Kreditech, which recently received a large tranche of financing from Naspers’ PayU, another PayPal competitor, to work together on building payment and financing products for online merchants. Its focus is on developing markets, whereas Klarna for now counts Europe and the U.S. as its main markets.
The company has applied to rebrand itself as Klarna Bank, presumably as a precursor to a new and expanded range of services.
The company applied for a banking license in 2015, and is reportedly looking at a shift into being more an all-in-one digital wallet rather than only used for the singular service of one-off payments and financing connected to specific purchases.
According to Crunchbase, Klarna has raised just under $300 million in equity investment. Other backers include Atomico, Fabrice Grinda and FJ Labs, GP Bullhound, IVP, QED and Sequoia.

 klarna
Shopify is taking Kit, the virtual assistant it acquired last year and making it free to all members on its platform, as a basic part of their merchant services. That’s a big deal for the previously premium service, both in terms of how far it can reach, and in terms of what it can do for Shopify’s user base.
Kit bills itself as a “virtual employee” for Shopify merchants, which connects with their store, Facebook and various other customer vectors and can handle a lot of both inward and outward facing store and marketing management. There’s a skills library for the virtual assistant, which includes things like inventory management, dynamically adjusting Facebook ads, sending emails out to new customers, running reports on various aspects of a merchant’s shop and more, and all of this is controlled via Facebook Messenger, Telegram or SMS via a conversational interface.
Shopify says that Kit is already enjoying strong adoption, with 800 percent growth in adoption since it came in-house, and 5x more customers drive to merchant stores via Facebook ads thanks to Kit compared to the same volume of inbound when compared year over year. Now, the company is hoping even more merchants will be able to find out what Kit can do, since it’s dropping the price barrier entirely.
“When Shopify looked to acquire Kit and we started that conversation, the really interesting challenge in front of us was ‘Can we help somebody start their business, and have their first employee within five minutes?’,” explained Kit co-founder Michael Perry in an interview, noting that ultimately the goal in going free with the assistant is to contribute to Shopify’s core mission. “This is a very mission-driven decision; we have no intentions of Kit ever not being free or upselling people on things.”
Instead, Kit will look to the Skills marketplace for the assistant as a source of revenue, but focus on making its core features free and available to all. There are nearly 20 skills available at the moment, and Perry says that expanding that library considerably is a “big part” of the company’s roadmap for 2018.
Can A.I. help build better educational apps for kids? That’s a question Sesame Workshop, the nonprofit organization behind the popular children’s TV program “Sesame Street” and others, aims to answer. The company has teamed up with IBM to create the first vocabulary learning app powered by IBM’s A.I., which adapts itself the child’s current reading level and vocabulary range, then continues to intelligently adjust as the child’s vocabulary skills improve.
IBM and Sesame Workshop announced last year that the two companies would work together on a line of cognitive apps, games and educational toys. This new app is the first result of that three-year partnership.
The companies have now just completed a pilot trial for the app, where it was introduced to over 150 students in Georgia’s Gwinnett County Public Schools. Located in the Atlanta metro area, Gwinnett County schools (GCPS) is one of the top urban school districts in the U.S., and the 13th largest district in the nation. It’s also a three-time finalist and two-time winner of The Broad Prize for Urban Education.
The app itself is built for preschool and Kindergarten-aged children on the IBM and Sesame Intelligent Play and Learning Platform. This IBM Cloud-based platform is designed to take advantage of A.I. platform IBM Watson’s cognitive capabilities, which are then tied to Sesame Workshop’s understanding and expertise in the field of early childhood education.
During the pilot program, students and educators tested the app in a classroom environment on tablet computers.
The app uses Sesame Street characters along with educational videos and word games to help student enhance their vocabulary. Teachers, meanwhile, can monitor their children’s vocabulary development in real-time through a secure dashboard and then adjust the lessons, pacing, and curriculum to each child’s needs.

The app also personalizes itself to individual children using adaptive assessments to determine the child’s current vocabulary range, then delivers learning experiences that focus on specific words. As the child continues to use the app, it will also adapt further to focus more heavily on those words and other areas that require additional attention.
The pilot program was the first phase of a longer term process that will examine whether or not a learning experience like this can demonstrably improve a child’s vocabulary. However, the initial findings are promising – after collecting 18,000 assessments from multiple choice questions over a two-week period, students appeared to have acquire new vocabulary as a result of the app.
For example, kindergarteners learned words like “arachnid,” “amplify,” “camouflage,” and “applause,” which are typically considered above their grade level.
Beyond that, the students seemed to understand the words’ meaning in context outside of the application. For example, when one class found a spider in the classroom, a kid shouted “arachnid!” Another teacher said children were able to notice forms of “camouflage” when studying animals and their skin patterns.
However, the app is still in early stages of development. The feedback from the Gwinnett pilot will be incorporated into a new version of the app, which will be introduced to more schools in an expanded pilot that begins this fall.
The app and others like it will also in the future be made available on the IBM Cloud for wide adoption in schools worldwide.

Technology that takes advantage of adaptive learning techniques to personalize itself to individual learners, as well as those that relegate teachers to the position of classroom mentor, are popular new trends in education. A recent NYT feature story, for example, highlighted ongoing educational programs led or funded by tech billionaires, which leveraged techniques like adaptive learning, individualized instruction and personalization, to help students learn.
But while the tech leaders backing these new ways of learning have a vested interest in pumping out future engineers for the companies they run, Sesame Workshop’s historical focus has simply been about improving education and learning through the use of media and technology.
“A generation ago, ‘Sesame Street’ used the ubiquitous presence of television to reach vulnerable children who did not have access to the learning opportunities that affluent and middle-class kids did. It worked very well,” Sesame Workshop CEO Jeffrey Dunn said, when announcing the IBM partnership last year. “Now, through this collaboration with IBM and Watson, we expect to develop the next generation of tailored learning tools.”
With the launch of the new app, he adds, “educational technology like the platform we’ve created with IBM Watson is a promising new channel for learning opportunities inside and outside the classroom, and we’re excited to explore it further.”
Image credits: IBM
Out of all the how-to guides ever written about pitching journalists, I’ve never seen one address the truth—that most are simply too busy trying not to get murdered by their inboxes to even open emails. Upbeat wants to use data science to create PR pitches that don’t automatically end up in the Trash folder. The San Francisco-based startup (formerly called PRX.co) launched the public beta of its cloud-based PR platform today and also announced that it has raised $1.5 million in funding.
Upbeat’s investors are Draper Associates, Maverick Capital, Kleiner Perkins Caufield Byers, FirstRock Capital, UpHonest Capital, Quest Venture Partners, SV Angel, 500 Startups, Stanford-StartX Fund, and Y Combinator. Angel investors, including former journalists Esther Dyson and Philip Kaplan, also participated.
CEO Ricky Yean, who co-founded Upbeat with CTO David Tran (the two, pictured above, previously launched Crowdbooster, which provides social media marketing analytics), said that it has worked with more than 300 companies so far.
Not surprisingly, a lot of its clients are other tech startups, but its customers have also included non-profits, activists, writers who have self-published books (the author of Bible Emoji was a client), and conferences like Emojicon, which was organized by former New York Times journalist Jennifer 8. Lee.
Yean said that many of Upbeat’s users usually would not seek a PR agency, but they have also included at least one large company with an in-house communications team.
“What’s interesting is by reducing the friction of engaging a PR agency, we make it easier for all kinds of stories to bubble up to the surface,” said Yean in an email interview. “For example, Uber’s former Head of Compliance started an initiative called the Vendor Security Alliance, and although he was inside Uber, he needed on-demand, extra PR support from the outside and so he came to us, resulting in WSJ coverage. The initiative may not have surfaced otherwise from within the organization.”
While Upbeat’s cloud-based software relies on data analysis to figure out which journalists to contact, it relies on two in-house media strategists (who sit next to Upbeat’s engineers) to assess potential story ideas and coach clients for interviews.


In order to preserve the quality of its pitches, Yean said that it only accepts 25 percent of the ideas it gets. Criteria includes credibility, the uniqueness of headlines, and timeliness. Then Upbeat matches pitches to journalists with its algorithm, which considers data from a number of sources, including articles, tweets, and each writer’s past interactions with its other pitches.
“For example, we run latent semantic analysis on your writing history to find the topics you most like to write about, so we can pitch you on stories that are right in your topical wheelhouse,” said Yean. “Rather than pitching you about diapers because of that one article you wrote in 2010 about the Diapers.com acquisition, Upbeat uses natural language processing to understand that you likely wrote about it because it was a big acquisition.”
Like a lot of other journalists, I’m familiar with getting pitches based on old articles that I’ve forgotten writing about companies I usually don’t cover, so Upbeat’s premise sounds intriguing to me (even though the idea of having everything I’ve written run through latent semantic analysis is a tad disquieting). But the emails I pay the most attention to are from sources I’ve spent years talking to already, so I asked Yean how Upbeat deals with the fact that a lot of successful pitching is simply about old-fashioned networking.
Yean replied that Upbeat’s goal is to become trusted in the same way that well-known agencies like Edelman or Outcast are, but instead of cultivating a relationship with one or two people, the journalist would work with its platform.
The success of a campaign isn’t measured solely by how many articles (if any) it results in.
“Of course, with all this vetting, targeting, and pitching, we definitely aim to get media coverage for every campaign, but PR is not transactional and it shouldn’t be,” said Yean.
Instead, Upbeat’s customers are subscribed to its platform, which helps them keep track of their interactions with journalists in the hopes of serving as a source on other stories.
Other tech startups tackling PR already include PressFriendly and Publicize. One of the main things that differentiates Upbeat from current (and potential) competitors is its media database, which Yean said is “designed for a future where covering ‘tech’ could mean anything, interest areas change by the minute or hour, and moving publications or starting and supporting your own blog is easier than ever before.”
“Innovation in PR is overdue,” he added. “Technologists did a lot of infrastructure-level work to help online advertising go the way of the exchange and help us trust strangers enough to ask them to drive us around or let us stay in their house. We think we’re doing similar infrastructure-level work with Upbeat for media and PR to exchange stories.”
SpaceX is hoping to return the Falcon 9 first stage booster used in its first flight back to active operations on January 14. That’s an impressive turn around time if they can pull it off – roughly six months. SpaceX has reused a Falcon 9 first stage just once, for its March 30 SES-10 mission. The turnaround for that rocket refurbishment took nearly a year, so under six months would be a drastic improvement, as it’ll halve the timeline of the previous effort.
Eventually, SpaceX hopes to fly its Falcon 9 rockets again within 24 hours of use, so that it can pack as many launches as possible into as short a timeframe as possible, in order to maximize its launch capacity and achieve greater economies of scale.


Hours after CRS-11 lifted off, this flight-proven booster rolled into the hangar at 39A; targeting June 17 launch of BulgariaSat-1. pic.twitter.com/ZcqRQeJPx6
— SpaceX (@SpaceX) June 7, 2017



The BulgariaSat-1 mission on June 17 where SpaceX hopes to reuse the used Falcon 9 will take place from the Kennedy Space Center. It was originally slated to occur at the end of last year, but the timing was pushed back as a result of SpaceX’s launch pad pre-flight rocket explosion last September.
A little more than six months ago, Vault took to the Disrupt Battlefield stage to introduce automated investment accounts small and medium-sized business owners could offer to their employees. Today the company is launching a set of mobile apps and expanding its investment offerings to allow any independent contractor to easily start saving for retirement.
The company was founded on the idea of allowing any business to be able to offer retirement benefits. Those plans cost $10 per employee per month, which was a small price to pay for businesses to offer a new perk to their employees.
But shortly after launch, Vault founder Randy Fernando realized the company could serve a lot more people by going directly to contract workers who might not have access to employee-offered plans. There are 54 million people in the U.S. who work independently in one form or another, and many of those people probably aren’t setting aside enough for retirement. 
Designed for freelance contractors who might not have steady or reliable income flows, Vault’s new products help simplify the process of putting aside a percentage of each paycheck. Users simply connect their bank accounts to Vault, tell the service what percentage they’d like to put aside for retirement, and Vault does the hard work of saving for them.
Users can choose between SEP IRA, Roth IRA or traditional IRA accounts, and once set up, Vault recognizes when income comes in and moves the designated amount of money into a retirement account. Instead of just putting money into one or a series of investment funds, Vault auto-rebalances and optimizes portfolio construction for retirement based on a series of different factors.
Vault is designed to lower the cost of creating a retirement account for those who most need to save. It costs just $1 a month for customers just getting started, or a fee of 0.25 percent for customers who have more than $5,000 under management. It also ensures that all funds it invests in charge low fees, usually between 0.03 and 0.09 percent, according to Fernando.
While expanding its business to include anyone who has 1099 income, the company also is launching iOS and Android mobile apps to make it easier for customers to manage their accounts and keep track of their retirement savings progress. Releasing those apps should also have the side benefit of helping to find new customers through mobile distribution channels, as opposed to just online through its desktop site.
As the cost of in-class education continues to rise, and the cost for computing continues to fall, we’re seeing a flourishing of startups that target the market for online learning. As one mark of the trend, one of the leaders in this space, Coursera, is today announcing $64 million in a Series D round of funding.
Coursera’s CEO Rick Levin (who notably joined the company after a period as president of one of the more prestigious institutions of the old educational guard, Yale University) told me that the company plans to use the funding to accelerate its business in three areas: to develop new technology in areas like artificial intelligence to improve and personalize the learning experience; to expand its range of full online degrees (versus short courses and one-off classes); and to continue building out one of its newer areas, targeting nonprofits and businesses and their own corporate development and training needs.
Levin told me that Coursera is not disclosing its valuation in this round, but I have confirmed with sources close to the company that it is around $800 million — a significant uptick from Coursera’s previous round, which valued it around $500 million.
Another sign of some heat in the market is the size of this round. I’ve known about it for a couple of days while planning this story, but late last night I received a hurried note telling me it actually went up as Coursera added a new investor at the last minute.
The full list of investors is an impressive one. It includes GSV Asset Management, New Enterprise Associates (NEA), Kleiner Perkins Caufield Byers (KPCB) and Learn Capital, all existing investors. The Lampert Foundation — prominent in health and education philanthropy — also participated as a new investor. It takes the total raised by Coursera to just over $210 million.
The funding comes as Coursera, founded in 2012, has clocked 26 million registered users across its different courses and other offerings: these include 2,000 courses in 180 specializations; master’s degrees in business, computing, innovation and accounting; and courses for enterprises and nonprofits. It also has 150 university partners.
The majority of that 26 million today are part of the company’s short-course efforts, but Levin said the newer programs are growing fast and the company expects these to become more substantial over time. Today there are some 50 companies offering courses through Coursera, including BCG, BNY Mellon, L’Oreal, PayPal and Air France KLM, while government and nonprofit customers come from the U.S., Pakistan, Egypt, Malaysia and Singapore.
“We are excited to see Coursera emerge as the world’s learning platform, with a highly engaged global learner base and educational content from leading universities and top companies,” said Michael Moe, founder and CEO of GSV Asset Management. “In a global marketplace and knowledge-based economy, education makes the difference not only for how well an individual does, but for companies, and for that matter, countries.”
While some have advocated throwing traditional education out the window, for those who still think there is a future in getting established qualifications, there has been a lot of debate (including some pointed, critical observations) about the prospect of moving education online, and not all efforts have been successful.
It seems to me that the most interesting, and maybe most sustainable of these efforts will be those that are not trying to replace existing educational institutions, but those that are providing a new opportunity to people who may not otherwise have the time, logistical wherewithal or money to learn something otherwise.
These include some of the interesting startups targeting young people, like China’s Yuanfudao, which just raised at a $1.1 billion valuation, and VIPKid, which last year came out of nowhere to raise $100 million, as well as Age of Learning out of the U.S., which also raised at a $1 billion valuation.
Coursera, Levin tells me, sees itself in a similar vein, rather than as an all-out disruptor: “Our average MBA student is 37, married with children and a job,” he told me, “not someone who might have matriculated at the University of Illinois for this degree otherwise.” However, Coursera is only seeing through its first cohort in its masters programs, so it will be interesting to watch how its disruptive aspects evolve. 

 starmanseries/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
While music streaming has become more and more commoditized, artists still have a wide array of places to distribute their songs like Spotify, YouTube and Apple Music — but getting paid properly can start to complicate things.
That problem gets even more difficult when there are multiple people collaborating on the same song and it’s not clear who is getting how much of a cut from the revenue share from those services. That, on top of that the general unpredictability of an artist’s revenue, has left a hole that Stem co-founder Milana Rabkin thinks her and her co-founders startup Stem can fill. To do that, the company has raised $8 million in financing led by Evolution Media and Aspect Ventures, along with several other strategic investors and continuing participation from Upfront Ventures.
Stem works to collect the revenue from those tracks in disparate platforms and sources it into a sort of escrow. It then pays out the artists based on a previously agreed level of involvement and revenue share. Rabkin said that each artist and collaborator has to sign off on the share. When a track is uploaded, the artist defines those share percentages, and then the revenue is distributed out more quickly than traditionally if it went through the typical channels. Rabkin said users should start getting data within the first 30 to 60 days of publishing.
“A lot of the new tools that have been created in the fintech space have really been focused on the services that have enabled independent small businesses to grow on their own,” Rabkin said. “Artists and creators are no different, the problem is no one’s created tools that cater to them. If you look at Intuit you have Mint, but for an artist with unpredictable income and difficult to track revenue streams [it’s different]. You can plug in your bank account, but Intuit and mint doesn’t plug into iTunes or YouTube or Spotify.”
Another problem Stem is trying to tackle is ensuring that collaborators that may not be able to monetize their content. Some artists — like first-timers — may be releasing content but have to treat it purely as promotional or marketing. Instead of just focusing on making money of touring, Rabkin said Stem will hopefully offer those artists some way of driving revenue right from the get-go.
The data that Stem brings in from all these disparate platforms may also, itself, be valuable. Artists can get information on their listeners and start to zero in on some of their preferences. That might help them tailor their tours or other parts of their marketing. But adding information around revenue streams on top of that adds another layer of data that can signal a much stronger level of engagement than some of the other signals they might have.
“The problem that exists is in the supply chain in the music business, that hasn’t been [solved],” Rabkin said. “There’s new exciting frameworks that have been developed, really great tools to normalize data in relational databases. Those types of tools, they make it really easy to start tackling these problems in a way that wasn’t possible years ago.”
Rabkin said she doesn’t view Stem as competitive with distribution services, as the company is trying to get everything funneled into one place just to sort out who gets paid what. Right now the company has to take over the process, but part of the reason Stem is raising money is to build the tools it has in a way that other distributors can use.
There will likely be plenty of competition in the space. Kobalt, for example, raised $75 million at a $775 million valuation last month. And each of these services — like iTunes or Spotify — may end up simplifying their artist tools down enough that it may not require such complicated background gymnastics to figure out how to get the right people paid. But Rabkin hopes that by building a seamless enough experience Stem will be able to attract a wide artist base that includes Frank Ocean, Childish Gambino, DJ Jazzy Jeff, Anna Wise, Chromatics, and Poolside.
SpaceX has secured a contract to launch the uncrewed X-37B spaceplane, a secret military spacecraft created by the U.S. Air Force that’s kind of like a compact space shuttle, but whose functional purpose is ultimately kept under wraps. The Verge reports that SpaceX’s launch services for a launch of the X-37B in August atop a Falcon 9 were confirmed via a U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on Wednesday.
The X-37B has been to space before; it actually just got back to Earth last month, so it won’t be out of action for long. That was the spacecraft’s fourth mission, during each of which it has carried secretive payloads to orbit, over fairly long stretches (the last mission ran 718 days.)
Built by Boeing, the X-37B is also called the ‘Orbital Test Vehicle,’ and it launches vertically strapped to a rocket but then lands like a traditional plane, much like the original reusable Space Shuttle. It’s a lot smaller than the Space Shuttle, however, and can carry relatively small cargo loads in its 7×4-foot storage bay. An X-37C has been announced by Boeing, with a passenger capacity of up to six astronauts.
This is SpaceX’s first launch of the X-37B, which has been sent into orbit aboard a United Launch Alliance Atlas V rocket for each of its prior missions. SpaceX’s role as a military launch provider is a huge boon to its ability to operate profitably, so scoring a secret spaceplane contract is a big deal for the private space company.

 U.S. Air Force courtesy photo
A day of protest over the FCC’s controversial proposal to eliminate net neutrality rules has been planned for July 12, with supporters of the online action including the likes of Amazon, Etsy, Github, Kickstarter, Reddit and Y Combinator.
The protest website lists more than 60 participants who are planning to join in the day of action next month, and is soliciting more signs up.
The action is being organized by three online rights organizations, Fight for the Future, freepress and Demand Progress — some of which were also involved in the 2012 online protests against the SOPA and PIPA bills. Those protests, five years ago, saw more than 50,000 websites blackout their homepages — and led to a rethink in Congress.
Evidently the hope is for a repeat performance that can head off the 2017 net neutrality threat.
“The FCC wants to destroy net neutrality and give big cable companies control over what we see and do online. If they get their way, they’ll allow widespread throttling, blocking, censorship, and extra fees. On July 12th, the Internet will come together to stop them,” they write on the protest website.
“We’ll provide tools for everyone to make it super easy for your followers / visitors to take action. From the SOPA blackout to the Internet Slowdown, we’ve shown time and time again that when the Internet comes together, we can stop censorship and corruption. Now, we have to do it again!”
As we reported in May, the FCC’s proposed rule — due to be voted on later this summer — would remove the classification of broadband as a telecommunications service governed by Title II of the Telecommunications Act, which gives the FCC broad powers to regulate internet service providers.
Meaning that ISPs and cable providers would — at least in theory — be free to throttle, block or censor online services, or apply extra fees for accessing certain content. They would certainly gain greater potential power over online content.
Sam Altman, president of Y Combinator — one of the backers of the protest — has said his reasons for joining the action are the risk of cable and wireless companies having “outsized power to pick winners and losers in the market”.
For a deeper dive into the FCC’s proposals check out our earlier post.
Dance cards are filling up for the coming autonomous driving revolution: The newest partners are Delphi and Transdev, who are joining forces to create an automated, on-demand mobility systems, with a service offering set to make its debut via pilot projects in France, and then to eventually expand eventually to global reach.
Delphi will be bringing its automated driving platform to the mix, which it’s creating in partnership with Mobileye; meanwhile, Transdev is a recognized leader in mobility network operation, and already works with public transit authorities around the word, including trams, light rail, buses, ferries, and more recently, autonomous vehicles. Transdev boasts 83,000 employees, and operates 40,000 vehicles across 19 countries across all five continents – so even if it’s new to you (as it was to me), they’ve got positioning in the industry that few can claim to match.
This is one of the most ambitious of the currently announced autonomous mobility service projects, since both Delphi and Transdev are stating up front that they want to eventually have a global footprint with their offering. The companies are also going to be working on getting pilot projects operating very quickly.
Transdev is already started work on an autonomous on-demand service pilot in Normandy (depicted in the video below), and this will give it and Delphi the chance to test all aspects of the planned platform, from dispatch to sensor fusion and intelligence. This will be open to members of the public from project outset, and will provide public transport where there isn’t currently an option available today.

Then, in Paris-Saclay, both companies will work together to launch a “first mile, last mile” service operating between a railway station and a nearby campus. The goal with that pilot is to launch two cars and one shuttle prior to the end of this year, and then to grow the fleet beyond that. The goal is to not have a driver present in the vehicle at all as soon as possible, explained Yann Leriche, Chief Performance Officer at Transdev on a call announcing the news, though initially there will be a technical driver monitoring on board.
“We believe that autonomy will bring a lot of social benefits,” Leriche said. “Our mission is to leverage those benefits to provide attractive shared transportation options to our clients. The asset can be shared, for example on-demand cars, or the ride can be shared, for example, buses.”
For Delphi, this partnership will provide access to testing on a wide range of vehicle types across a wide variety of service settings, and it gives them someone to work with who already has a deep functional understanding of current urban transit and the challenges therein. It’s a perspective that not even more modern ride hailing service operators like Uber or Lyft necessarily have, especially when it comes to partnerships with urban transit authorities.



How the service is designed to work.




The Paris pilot program detailed.




NOrmandy Transdev




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


“They have that clear pathway, they’re operating today, they understand this and we couldn’t be more excited to be adding them as a partner,” Glen De Vos, Delphi’s Chief Technology Officer, said on the call. “We really have line of sight into how the technology can be deployed, and deployed in a way that really makes sense in terms of safety and in terms of commercial operations.”
Both companies will say they’ll contribute to the co-development of future autonomous vehicles (along with vehicle manufacturing partners), as well as infrastructure to make operating a commercial service sustainable and scalable. The end goal is to get the service to market for public consumption by 2019. By 2018, the test projects should be operating without a safety driver on board, and will instead be managed remotely by a central control operator, according to Leriche. This would be the first autonomous service without drivers on board on open roads.
Delphi, a long-time auto industry supplier, recently announced that it would split off its powertrain company into its own unit in order to focus more fully on EV tech and autonomous vehicles. Transdev provides “deep understanding of the consumer experience,” however, according to De Vos, since it interfaces with the public in its existing business very frequently.
Already, Leriche said that Transdev is testing in autonomy, but it’s looking to Delphi to help it bring those services to the open road. Delphi will help in this manner because of its proven autonomous driving platform.
Bosch will be teaming up with TomTom to create a new kind of high-resolution localized maps that incorporate a “radar road signature” generated by Bosch, which can help position cars in their surroundings to within a few centimeters (that’s less than an inch in Imperial terms). It supplements video data previously used for this purpose, and has the advantage of working in poor visibility conditions and in bad weather, where cameras don’t necessarily fare all that well.
Amazingly, the data used to transmit this information to vehicles is only about half that sent when using video, which makes it a more efficient choice for networking purposes, too. That’s always a consideration among automakers, since data transmission is a cost they have to factor into the overall price of providing autonomous tech. The plan currently is to start getting this data from vehicles beginning in 2020, at the “latest,” according to Bosch.
Vehicles will contribute to the map making in high volume, once the tech is put in place. This involves fielding cars with modified versions of Bosch’s previous radar sensors, since those were designed to work with today’s advanced driver assistance feature, and activated upon detecting motion. To perform this kind of updating, evolving high-resolution mapping work, Bosch changed the design for constant performance, as opposed to activity-based triggering.
The mapping solution will be made up of localization information, to help cars figure out where they are positioned within a lane; a planning layer, to help predict the upcoming course of the vehicle, and a dynamic layer, which includes real-time info about construction work, parking spaces and traffic back-ups. Info from sources including Bosch’s radar units will be crucial to making this work properly.
The “radar road signature” being developed by Bosch will work with any “conventional mapping format,” the company notes, so it could potentially make its way to a lot more places, especially as mapping becomes key to rolling out autonomous vehicles safely and effectively. Since Bosch is one of the world’s leading supplier for automakers when it comes to this kind of radar hardware, those maps should have great coverage, too.
Running a company is expensive. And it’s more than just the product and employee costs that add up.
From furniture to electronics, there’s a lot of day-to-day corporate spending that can be hard to keep tabs on. That’s why procurement software has become a big business.
Investors are betting that Scout RFP will emerge as a leader in the space. Menlo Ventures is leading a $15.5 million Series B round in the company, with participation from NEA. Matt Murphy from Menlo is also joining the board.
“Procurement departments all over the world are run on spreadsheets,” CEO Alex Yakubovich told TechCrunch. Scout’s goal is to “automate the sourcing process.”
Clients range from Smucker’s to Salesforce and they pay for Scout on a subscription basis. In addition to spend management, Scout can help find discounts for buying in bulk. They call it “reverse auctions,” where suppliers compete on price to entice customers.
Murphy says Menlo invested in Scout because it’s unlike the competition. “It’s an adjacent category that is different and has been neglected by technology providers.” He feels that Ariba and Coupa “have a forced fit offering that is clumsily based on their standard product work flow and rarely used.”
Scout will ultimately “bring visibility for tracking all the projects that are going on,” said Yakubovich. It’s efficient to have just “one system of record for procurement and sourcing.”
Scout is headquartered in San Francisco and has 42 employees. The company previously raised about $12 million from NEA and Google Ventures (GV).

 Magictorch/Getty Images
Another day, another major round of funding for a security startup, underscoring just how active the area of IT protection is right now — both in terms of business need and as an investment opportunity. Today, Illumio — a startup that provides data center and cloud security services, monitoring and protecting individual applications and processes within an enterprise network by segmenting them — is announcing that it has raised $125 million in a new round of funding. It plans to use the money to expand in three areas, business development, R&D and customer support.
The Series D was led by J.P. Morgan Asset Management. (J.P. Morgan also happens to be a customer, although this deal was made independent of that, Andrew Rubin, the CEO and co-founder of Illumio, told me in an interview.) Other big names in this round included Andreessen Horowitz, General Catalyst, 8VC, Accel, Data Collective and Yahoo’s Jerry Yang — all previous investors — as well as unnamed new backers.
It brings the total raised by Illumio to $267 million, at what Rubin described as an upround: “The pre-money on this was higher than on the last, no ambiguity about that,” he said in an interview.
To be clear, Illumio has never commented to me about its valuation. But, for those who are interested in keeping tabs… it was widely reported during its Series C round of $100 million in 2015 that Illumio was valued at $1 billion, meaning the valuation is very likely well over that figure by now. 
“We are determined to build a long term, successful, standalone and potentially public company,” Rubin explained to me earlier this week. “The specific numbers don’t mean anything unless we are growing.” 
But the company has, indeed, been doing just that. Illumio is not disclosing its revenues and Rubin noted that it is not yet profitable, but there are other signs of how things are moving. Bookings were up 400 percent between its first and second years of business (it’s been in the market for 2.5 years, so no figures yet for how years two to three have gone).
Customers include nine of the 15 largest financial companies in the U.S. as well as four of the seven largest SaaS businesses — “with a considerable number of seven-figure deals,” Rubin added. Salesforce, Workday, games company King, Netsuite and Morgan Stanley are all among Illumio’s clients.
With a focus on large enterprises, Illumio’s business is based around volume plays: multiple customers, it says, segment and secure 10,000 workloads in a typical Illumio deployment. One recently secured 32,000 workloads.
We have described exactly what Illumio does in some detail before, but here is a slightly more abbreviated explanation:
While there are firewalls and a number of other cross-network security options, the idea behind Illumio is that by segmenting workloads, it’s able to manage them and potential breaches better, and in cases where something bad has gotten through, contain them better to prevent a cascading or ripple effect.
“Think of your network as a submarine,” Rubin explained. “If the submarine springs a leak, you want to avoid the whole thing sinking. This is what we do for our customers. If something does go wrong, we reduce the impact.”
The second thing that Illumio provides, in addition to the detailed protection, is a big-picture snapshot of what the whole network is doing, which the company likes to refer to as a “network MRI”, in order to identify where problems may lurk.
The other important thing is how Illumio has built its solution. “What Illumio has done is substituted a software brain for tasks that used to be done by humans,” CCO Alan Cohen said. Part of the shift to machines and AI to do this is because of the sheer growth of computing in business. “We track every application and do it at large scale. To be able to map that in a data center today, you can’t do that with humans anymore.”
The approach that Illumio takes may have been somewhat unique when the company first launched, but these days there are more competitors on the market, including big names like VMWare and Cisco, which both have an obvious interest in developing similar services, given their respective holdings in virtualised machine technology and servers.
In that regard, one of Illumio’s unique selling points is that it has stayed very much as an agnostic provider in the mix.
“I continue to be inspired by Illumio’s vision for transforming the cybersecurity market,” said John Thompson, an Illumio board member who happens also to be chairman of Microsoft. “Illumio’s experienced management team has been executing on this enormous opportunity with conviction. The company’s advantages against the incumbents continue to reinforce that Illumiowill define this new data center and cloud security market.”
That has also continued to have strong resonance with investors, and specifically customers who have become backers.
“Given the exponential growth of cybersecurity risks, it’s clear that segmentation is now one of the largest market opportunities in enterprise software,” said Larry Unrein, Global Head of J.P. Morgan Asset Management’s Private Equity Group, in a statement. “Through our due diligence process, which included speaking with a number of Illumio’s key customers, we learned the company’s adaptive segmentation technology is designed to address these threats and offers a range of options without all of the manual work normally associated with traditional segmentation solutions.”

 Yuri Samoilov/Flickr UNDER A CCPL LICENSE (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)
Roll up, roll up, there’s a new fintech VC fund in Southeast Asia town. Today, Thailand-based Kasikorn Bank announced its inaugural tech fund which is 1 billion THB, just shy of $30 million, in size.
Kasikorn, which was founded in 1945 and is one of Thailand’s major banks, is calling the fund Beacon — think lights on top of lighthouses — and it is aimed at giving the firm first-mover advantage on global tech through startups based in Thailand and overseas. Thanapong Na Ranong, formerly with InVent, a VC affiliated with mobile operator AIS, will lead Beacon VC.
The investment thesis is “to learn from startups and improve our go-to market strategy,” Na Ranong said in an interview, adding that the bank would not put shackles on its portfolio companies.
The capital, which is 100 percent from the bank, will go towards direct investments in startups and also contributions into VC funds as an LP. Kasikorn said today that it has already backed Dymon Asia, a fintech fund headquartered in Singapore that is targeting a $50 million final close, and put money into Bangkok-based FlowAccount, its first direct investment in a startup.
Going forward, it is targeting three to five deals per year ranging from seed-plus to Series A stage with a target across all aspects of fintech. The firm aims to lead or co-lead investments with a typical check size of $500,000 to $3 million. It did not disclose what portion of the fund is reserved for follow-on deals, but the capital itself is anticipated to last between four and six years.
“The primary markets for our focus are in Southeast Asia, but we are also opportunistic in Europe and China,” senior investment manager Photchara Sripincha told TechCrunch. The U.S. market, he added, is not a primary target at this point.
Beacon plans to invest in two more funds beyond Dymon, and they are likely to be its vehicle for entering and understanding new regions.
“First we need to expand our horizon and learn about new ecosystems” before making direct investments outside of Southeast Asia, Sripincha added.
Beyond offering capital, Kasikorn aims to woo startups and funds with its technology play. The bank operates a tech arm — Kasikorn Bank Technology Group, or KBTG — which offers a different partnership angle beyond working with the bank directly for access to its customer base, including over five million mobile banking customers.
“A lot of collaboration comes from our tech company, it is agile and doesn’t operate like a bank. We have that customer base — including 35 percent SME marketshare, 40 percent mobile marketshare — and a strong tech team that can provide more of those services. If a tech company wanted to come here to Thailand, we believe we are the perfect partner,” Sripincha explained.
Kasikorn cites Beacon Interface, a startup offering bank services to visually impaired customers, as one of its KBTG success stories. It span out of the bank last year and works closely with Beacon/Kasikorn’s ‘business incubation’ team.
Kasikorn is one of a number of banks in Thailand to have taken an active interest in tech startups.
Bangkok Bank partnered with Hong Kong-based Nest to offer an accelerator program, while Siam Commercial Bank (SCB) launched its Digital Ventures arm which covers startup/fund investments and an accelerator program. Digital Ventures is also a backer of the Dymon Asia fund, and its other investments include Singapore-based VC fund Golden Gate Ventures and Ripple, a blockchain startup based in San Francisco.

 @KBTGbuilding (Facebook) (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)
After months of trailing a move into original TV content, Apple yesterday pushed play on the first episode of Planet of the Apps, which can now be watched online via iTunes if you’re a subscriber of the company’s streaming music service, Apple Music.
The 50-minute show combines a celebrity judging aesthetic familiar from the likes of The Voice, with entrepreneurs pitching their apps — a la Shark Tank.
Meet the next icons.#PlanetOfTheApps begins tonight, only on @AppleMusic. applemusic.com/planetoftheapps https://t.co/9OLWtr4ip0— Planet of the Apps (@planetoftheapps) June 07, 2017
Apple’s four judges for Planet of the Apps are: Jessica Alba, Gwyneth Paltrow, Will.i.am and Gary Vaynerchuk, along with in-house host Zane Lowe.
While Lightspeed Venture Partners is the VC firm being looped in as a possible investor for entrepreneurs whose ideas impress.
App makers have 60 seconds to pitch their idea in front of the judges on a slow-moving escalator — for a visual twist on the idea of an ‘elevator pitch’.
Judges then have to vote on whether they want to hear the idea fleshed out in a bit more detail — after which they can vote on whether or not they would like to mentor the company for a chance to gain funding at the end of the show.
The first episode is billed as including an Air Force vet pitching an augmented reality app, two college friends with a public safety app idea, and an entrepreneur hoping to crowdsource a 3D model of the entire world.
For Apple several promotional threads are very obviously being looped together here, from the core push to apply (yet more) celebrity sparkle to the app ecosystem, generally, to raise public awareness and feed more ideas in; to the original content being hooked to Apple Music as a strategy to drive more subscribers to its streaming service.
Kicking off its WWDC conference on Monday, Apple’s CEO Tim Cook said Apple Music now has 27 million subscribers — ergo, plenty of room for more growth there.
Apple says new episodes of Planet of the Apps will be released on Tuesdays, with the first series set to be 10 episodes long.
The first episode is also available here for a time for anyone to watch — although only in certain countries.
Apple put a heavy focus on improving iOS at its WWDC this week with introductions such as file management, more visible iMessage features, QR code scanning and more, but there are a number of notable features in iOS 11 that weren’t explicitly announced. One of those, which will be well-received by many, is a tweak to security settings that allows users to restrict the use of their location data for any app on their device.
Apps like Uber and Waze have been criticized for forcing users to grant them full access to a phone’s location status even when the app is not being used in order to operate. As we wrote last year, that raises the potential for them to quietly collect background information on users, even though Uber, for one, has played that suggestion down.
Those days will soon be over for many users thanks to a new setting in iOS 11 that introduces the “While Using The App” location setting for all apps, as a number of eagle-eyed developers — including Joe Duvall and Twitter users @tfoil2 and @chengyinliu — spotted. Previously, that setting — which works exactly as the name suggests — had only been an option for developers, and it was something that a good number of high-profile apps did not include.
The new setting option, seen below with Uber as the example, is most definitely a positive development for user privacy. It may also help some people get more battery life from their phone, too.


All apps have While Using the App option for location access in iOS 11! Nicely done @apple. pic.twitter.com/f3Z3WTKGur
— Chengyin Liu (@chengyinliu) June 6, 2017



Right now, iOS 11 is only available to developer account holders so the impact of this change is initially limited. But this new option to control the use of location more granularly will roll out to all eligible iPhone owners when iOS 11 hits general release in September.
Cross-border commerce platform WaystoCap has raised new funding to expand its reach in Africa, the startup confirmed to TechCrunch today.
A recent graduate from the Y Combinator accelerator program in the U.S., WaystoCap is an online destination for buyers and sellers of business-to-business goods in Africa. Founded in Casablanca, Morocco, it aims to digitize the centuries old cross-bordering trading industry that exists in the continent and make it easier for those outside of Africa to get into the region.
Today’s fundraise is undisclosed, but a source close to the company told TechCrunch that it is between $2.5 million to $3 million in size.
That’s certainly a significant seed round for an Africa-based company, and the money is courtesy of a range of investors that include Y Combinator, Battery Ventures, Soma Capital, Palm Drive Capital, Amino Capital, Endure Capital, Story Ventures, Lynett Capital, Neon Capital and 4DX LLC. In addition, Y Combinator partner Michael Seibel, Golden founder Jude Gomila, SixDoors CEO Pascal Levy Garboua were among the angel investors to take part.
CEO Niama El Bassunie said WaystoCap plans to spend the money expanding to West Africa via an office in Benin, expanding its industry verticals — which currently stand at 12 — and developing a new platform to match buyers and sellers more efficiently.

El Bassunie said the company picked Benin, the tiny country in West Africa, as a strategic location because “lot of neighboring land-locked countries go through there,” and that includes the lucrative Nigerian import industry.
“The presence gives us local commerce guarantees and makes us look a lot better on the ground,” she explained in an interview.
Benin is just the start and WaystoCap is eying an additional two to three more offices in West Africa, most probably starting with Nigeria, in addition to a base in London where finance trade partnerships are typically struck. Next year, El Bassunie explained, the company will look to open a physical presence in East Africa to make a push in that region.
Right now, El Bassunie — who is one of four co-founders — said that the company has “thousands” of active buyers on its platform. She said WaystoCap processed $3.1 million of transactions in the first quarter of 2017, easily surpassing the $2.2 million it clocked for the whole of 2016. The company was cashflow positive prior to it decision to go after investment in order grow quickly, she added.
The rapid growth the company has realized this year is down in a large part to its participation in YC, the WaystoCap CEO said.
“They’re an accelerator program that really allows you to accelerate,” she said. “YC helps you to focus on your messaging and their help is invaluable.”

 appassionato fotografo viaggiatore/Getty Images
Victor Basta
Contributor


Victor Basta is the founder of the boutique investment firm Magister Advisors. 

While venture investing outside the U.S. has come a long way in recent years, our analysis shows it remains an entirely different industry than U.S. venture capital. And when we say different, we mean totally different.
We looked at venture investment trends in 2007-2011 from PitchBook and compared them with VC exit results in 2012-2016 to very roughly compare investment in one five-year period with exit results in the ensuing next five years, roughly matching VC investment cycles.
Investment trends show “what you would expect”
Over 2007-2011, European venture started to accelerate. Of course, the industry remained a fraction of the U.S. in size, but by 2011 there were 1,400+ European investments made versus just under 4,000 in the U.S., a healthy jump in activity. And average round size was nearly $5 million versus $7 million for the U.S. — all indicative of a European VC industry developing rapidly from a much smaller base.

Exit trends point to entirely different industries
The subsequent five years, 2012-2016, show entirely different exit profiles. It’s encapsulated in a single number on the bottom right of the chart below:
 

The average U.S. venture capital exit is nearly $200 million, versus $70 million for Europe.
The number of $250 million exits during this five-year period? 22 across all of Europe, versus 166 in the US. That’s a huge, persistent disparity, especially given the evolution of European venture over the past decade.
What’s going on?
While European venture has come on leaps and bounds, it remains a “smaller round, smaller exit” market.
It is extremely dangerous for European earlier-stage VCs to raise ever-larger funds, or early-stage European companies to take very large A or B rounds. The European exit market is still far less developed, and putting more into companies can only damage returns.
The above has nothing to do with ambition, it simply reflects a current reality slowly changing; to make significant returns, CEO’s and investors need to invest less into more capital-efficient businesses that can return enough in a smaller, though successful exit.
A “good” exit in Europe is $100 million or more, while a “good” exit in the U.S. is at least $250 million.
What’s to be done?
The key is to fill the Series C “black hole” that currently exists for European tech. This will give the most ambitious CEOs and investors the opportunity to tap late-stage capital to accelerate beyond the $100 million exit mark, in turn creating more future unicorns in Europe; currently Europe has 1/10 the U.S. number.
Here are specific, feasible actions that can address this gap in a reasonable time frame:


Extend the success of tax-advantaged investing to larger rounds. The U.K.’s EIS scheme has fueled unprecedented growth in Series A funding. Extending that and similar schemes around Europe to larger later rounds will undoubtedly increase the available capital for the most promising “scale-up” companies.

Introduce specific government financing/co-funding for Series C rounds. It is very possible to do this via attractive debt instruments, as later-stage companies are often profitable and able to fund low-interest debt. For example, if each €15 million-plus equity round qualified for a €5 million matching government debt instrument priced at a very low interest rate, overnight it will increase the larger round market, and leverage even greater gains for late-stage investors, in turn bringing more capital to Series C and later rounds.

Increase the number of highly skilled worker visas available for tech scale-ups. Europe has inherent advantages versus Silicon Valley; more stable workforce, far less current hostility to immigrants and a long tradition of numerous high-quality engineering schools. Adding to that a large scale inward “genius visa” program like H-1B in the U.S. will enable companies raising Series C to have confidence they can recruit the volume of engineers they need quickly, in turn making it even easier to raise their rounds.

Create smaller “scale-up hubs” along the lines of “startup hubs” springing up around Europe. There is no shortage of European incubators, hot-desk workspaces and other types of “startup hubs,” but all cater to companies just starting. A more sophisticated and smaller scale set of “scale-up hubs” catering to 100+ employee companies, where more advanced mentoring and selective support is available, could spread experience and know-how to aspiring CEOs, and reduce scale-up and financing risks significantly. These hubs would be much smaller than startup hubs as they would cater to a few dozen CEOs, not a few hundred, and be aimed at filling the experience and mentoring gaps that can otherwise undermine large capital raises.

Without specific actions, the industry will need 20-30 years to evolve toward U.S. levels. With specific actions, we think this can be cut to perhaps 10 years.
Shortening this time horizon could perhaps create 10-20 more future tech unicorns, adding perhaps $50-100 billion of future aggregate economic value to European tech.
Now that is an attractive return on investment.

 Bryce Durbin
Is there room for smaller, more focused Airbnb competitors? French startup Misterb&b thinks so as the startup just raised $8.5 million from Project A and Ventech to build an apartment renting platform focused on the LGBTQ community.
As the name suggests, Misterb&b started with a focus on gay people, but the company says that it wants to become the inclusive platform for the LGBTQ community. While you’ll find plenty of apartments in gay areas on Airbnb, you don’t really know the person you’re dealing with.
According to founder Matthieu Jost, this can be an issue as he had a bad experience with a host when he was traveling with his partner. And this can get even worse if you’re going to a country where homosexuality is still illegal.
When you book an apartment on Misterb&b, everybody is on the same page and you don’t need to lie to your host. And if you’re the kind of traveler who likes asking your host for tips, you could learn more from your host when it comes to places to hang out in a foreign city.
Right now, Misterb&b works with 100,000 hosts in 135 countries. And if you browse the website, it looks and feels just like Airbnb, so you’ll feel right at home.
Now let’s come back to my initial question for a minute. Airbnb has become an all-encompassing giant. It’s now too big to fail, and nothing is going to replace it. But Airbnb also created an untapped space, and there’s still room to grow.
That’s why Onefinestay managed to build an ultra high-end Airbnb for instance. AccorHotels then acquired Onefinestay for $170 million. Misterb&b is another good example of a startup branching out from an industry-leading tech company with a smaller focus.
So I think there’s enough room for multiple companies in this space. As long as the market is not too fragmented, it’s going to be a win for consumers as everybody will get more options.
I have an aversion to karaoke after the band I used to play in was entirely upstaged at a gig by a karaoke machine, but, as pastimes go, it remains a huge market. And where markets are big, startups like to go.
Enter Finland’s Singa, which is building a digital karaoke service that, in its own words, wants to do for karaoke what Spotify has done for music. The Helsinki-based company has recently scored €1.75 million in seed funding led by Initial Capital, with participation from Tamares Holdings, Superhero Capital, Reaktor Ventures and Tekes.
“Over my 10 years in the karaoke industry running Karaoke World Championships, I worked with big and small karaoke companies all over the world, from Asia to the U.S., and gained insight into the industry and saw that while most other entertainment media were moving towards streaming, karaoke was still stuck in the 90s,” Singa co-founder and CEO Atte Hujanen tells me.
“This was a huge disservice to karaoke singers and represented a massive opportunity for a company that understood both the industry and software-led disruption”.
To that end, Singa currently comes in two versions: For consumers, the Helsinki startup offers native iOS, Android, Web, Apple TV & SmartTV apps, which provide easy access to over 20,000 fully licensed karaoke songs and what it describes as an immersive singing experience. For bars, restaurants, hotels and other entertainment venues, Singa offers a pro-version, marketed as a modern, fully digital, commercial turn-key karaoke solution in a single intuitive package.

“With Singa you no longer need DVDs, CDGs, downloads, expensive custom hardware or any other kind of unnecessary hassle,” adds Hujanen. “Singa makes it easy to sing anytime, anywhere and on any device, for both consumers and for any venue providing a stage”.
In terms of competitors, the Singa CEO notes that YouTube is the world’s largest source for karaoke related content, but says that 99 per cent of the content is illegal or un-licensed at best. Smule, the heavily-funded San Francisco-based startup, has also seen success in the mobile karaoke space, while Israel-based Yokee has developed a similar offering and just recently sold to Canadian Stingray Digital for approximately $40 million. Chinese karaoke app Chang-Ba is a major local player and currently boasts around 30 million monthly active users.
“These players are not direct competitors, they are more focused on casual mobile-only experiences, audio/video filters and a heavy focus on social network-like features,” he says.
Adds Hujanen: “The only thing we care about is providing the best singing experience. We don’t focus on gimmicks, rather we wake up every day thinking how the singing experience can be improved. For instance, we are the only one’s who have truly digitized karaoke and gotten rid of the cringeworthy clichés of “old school” karaoke videos and graphics. Our content is rendered in realtime, which means it’s always optimized whether you’re singing off your 70” 4k television or the screen on your internet connected toaster”.
In the fast-paced world of traditional venture capital, corporate venture sometimes gets a bad rap, but often it depends on the people involved rather than the brand name, logo or misguided perceptions. Likewise corporate accelerators. However, many have been getting a makeover in the last couple years, so outfits like Founders Factory is linking corporates up with startups in a sort of pact of mutual benefit across several verticals.
The new kid on the block in this sphere is Venturespring, the brain-child of serial entrepreneur Cassandra Harris (founder and CEO) who has been building a network of corporates such as IBM, Vodafone and Unilever who have problems startups can potentially solve.
Venturespring is now launching Venturespring Ignite — a six-week programme where startups are strategically matched with relevant corporate partners and giving them access to capital via Venturespring’s investment fund.
The idea is to also unlock corporate resources and investment. Tata Communications is now joining as one of the lead collaborators.
“Venturespring Ignite goes beyond a traditional accelerator”, says Harris. “It isn’t about corporates paying ‘lip service’ to digital transformation or startups being able to leverage a big brand – this is match-making and collaboration that fundamentally changes the economic prospects of both established businesses and the disruptors changing the markets they operate in.”
She adds that Venturespring takes equity in the startups but “we do not dictate how much equity we want like some accelerators do. We only take equity in the companies that we want to invest into and that want to be invested into by us.”
It also doesn’t take equity without first putting in investment capital. “So just because they get selected onto the Venturespring Ignite programme doesn’t mean we take equity.”
Not all of the companies that are selected for the Venturespring Ignite programme are given capital, but if they are selected for the programme they will still get the free resources to help them grow, says Harris. “At the end of the day this is about empowering the startups via corporate resources.”
As part of the Venturespring Ignite programme, one of the fast growth businesses will be invited to Richard Branson’s Necker Island to attend a week-long summit in February 2018 attended by (it says here) Fortune 500 leaders, top global VCs and Sir Richard himself. Singularity University is also a co-producer of the event and will be responsible for the programming. Proceeds after the expenses will go to support Virgin Unite and the Impact Fellows program at Singularity University, which is nice of them.
Today’s Stories 

Bozoma Saint John heads to Uber from Apple
Uber has fired more than 20 people over harassment probe
Amazon launches a low-cost version of Prime for customers on government assistance
Pinterest raises $150M at a $12.3B valuation as it makes a full press into visual search

Credits
Written by: Tito Hamze, John MannesHosted by: Tito hamzeFilmed by: Joe ZolnoskiEdited by: Tito Hamze
Notes:

I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.

TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107
DeRay McKesson has a plan.
The man who became one of the most recognizable faces (and social media voices through his over 800,000 person strong Twitter feed) for the campaign for social justice that launched in the wake of the police killing of Michael Brown in 2014, is thinking about what’s next for the increasingly large community of people in the United States advocating for change under the banner of the Campaign Zero program he helped articulate.
In a wide-ranging conversation at our TC Justice event in San Francisco, McKesson touched on everything from Edward Snowden’s racial sensitivities (he’s learning); to how “woke” Jack Dorsey is (he’s woke); to whether Bill Maher should remain on the air (he shouldn’t).
But critically and crucially, McKesson returned again and again to the need for the current movement advocating for social justice to push past protest and focus on an engagement with the issues and the levers of government that can effect change most effectively.
“I hope that people learn,” McKesson said. “We’re explaining the trauma that’s happening…. rather than trying to engage in ways to address it.”
That’s one of the reasons that McKesson has launched his new podcast, Pod Save the People with the folks at Crooked Media, and why Campaign Zero — the site that’s become a go-to resource for organizing — is going to launch a new project in the coming months around what McKesson refers to as capacity building.
It’s important to note that the plan is not McKesson’s alone. He’s quick to point out that the movement that came together  in the wake of a spate of police killings of predominantly black men throughout 2014 has a number of architects. They include Brittany Packnett, and Samuel Sinyangwe along with McKesson and Johnetta Elzie (it’s this group of four that co-founded the “Mapping Police Violence” project in April 2015).
Now, as the movement becomes a campaign, it’s more important than ever for the communities that are fighting for social justice and their allies look beyond the streets to the statehouses, city councils, and congressional seats where policies are made and oversight is required of the arms of government that project power, McKesson said.
“There is a way to appreciate the activism without glorifying the action,” McKesson said. “Activism in the street is truth-telling and organizing is talking to people for a specific goal.”
The goal with the capacity building component of the Campaign Zero platform will be to  provide educational tools that can teach people how to organize meetings effectively, plan grassroots campaigns, and foster community engagement to bring people together to create more effective political action.
The messaging, the media, and the movement need to evolve beyond simply telling the truth about the traumas of being discriminated against or actually attacked because of race, sex, or gender identities, to organizing communities that empower agency to try and ensure that those attacks don’t happen.
In many instances, that involves letting these communities have their space within the broader movement toward a more equitable America.
“We have to create a world where people can show up as whole people every single time,” McKesson said.
It also means reaching out to potential allies, with narratives that can enlighten them about the ways their privilege can operate… and obfuscate critical issues.
“How hard did your father work for every band aid to be he color of his skin?” McKesson asked rhetorically. “[Identifying ] that is the work that needs to be done to make sure that people understand that this is systemic and deep,” he said.
Finally, McKesson also talked abut the difference between equity and equality and drew an important distinction between the two.
“The difference between equity and equality is that equality is everyone get the same thing and equity is everyone get the things they deserve,” McKesson said.
OnePlus has been doing a solid job hyping its next handset without delivering much in the way of actual information about the thing. On June 20, the company will finally debut the phone to the world, in a customarily idiosyncratic fashion, offering up “popup” events at locations around the globe to show it off in person.
OnePlus has never been above a good launch gimmick, a part of the company’s DNA that stems from its early days of invite-only devices, which it finally ditched around this time last year with the arrival of the OnePlus 3 (itself launched with a VR-streamed keynote). But the hardware maker has really distinguished itself by delivering flagship quality products at a low price, a defining characteristic since it first arrived out of nowhere in 2014.
Details are pretty few and far between, though the company has confirmed that it’s skipping the number 4 and going straight to the OnePlus 5 (which will hopefully have better results than when Samsung last skipped a number). A few weeks back it also revealed that the device will feature the Snapdragon 835, the same processor found on flagships like the Galaxy S8.


Are you prepared for the OnePlus 5? Focus on what matters and join our keynote live on June 20. https://t.co/uuWc1m3pz1 pic.twitter.com/KfbVfMyh00
— OnePlus (@oneplus) June 6, 2017



OnePlus has also acknowledge a partnership with DxO to improve the handset’s camera, and some recent leaks point to the company adding its name to the growing list of phones with dual-cameras. Other speculation involves an even beefier battery and more RAM, both longtime selling points on OnePlus devices.
The device’s actual pricing has been the subject of some debate ahead of launch. Some rumors point to a decent hike on that front – probably a bad move, given that high quality at a low price point is part of what has helped the company rise the ranks so quickly among increased competition from fellow Chinese smartphone makers.


Do you like headphone jacks?
— Carl Pei (@getpeid) October 25, 2016



One thing OnePlus has managed to do well, in the meantime, is maintain an open channel with its intensely loyal fanbase. Co-founder Carl Pei has used the company’s message boards and social media like Twitter to gauge users’ interest in various features, like the slowly disappearing headphone jack (that was overwhelmingly pro-jack, by the way).
Hopefully it will be able to maintain that magic balance between requested features and a low entrance fee.
On the same day Uber announced it dismissed 20 employees due to harassment claims, the guy in charge of diversity at the company said the latest report was “the first step of many” to improve culture at the company.
“I’m kind of excited to see some progress… I want to make Uber a better and better place to work,” Uber head of global diversity and inclusion Bernard Coleman said at TC Sessions: Justice today.
Coleman joined Uber in January, shortly before former engineer Susan Fowler publicly accused the company of rampant sexual harassment and human resources negligence in a Medium post. That post kicked off a firestorm of negative publicity for Uber and led to multiple investigations into Uber’s human resources operations.
But for Coleman, who was new on the job, the post came at a particularly fraught time. He was and his family were still living in Virginia at the time, he had sold his house and was just about to move across the country when he heard about the blog post.
“I felt terrible for a number of reasons,” Coleman said, noting that he felt helpless in part because he wasn’t physically in San Francisco when those claims were made. 
At an all-hands meeting today, Uber released the results of a Perkins Coie LLP investigation into 215 employees accused of harassment. As a result of that probe, about 100 employees have been dismissed from those claims. But 20 were fired, another 57 are still under investigation, 31 are in some type of counseling or training and seven have received a written warning.
A separate investigation is being spearheaded by former US Attorney General Eric Holder and Tammy Albarran, partners at law firm Covington & Burling, to look into the workplace issues Fowler initially brought forward. The Holder report is reportedly in the hands of board members and results of that review are expected to be made public next Tuesday.
Part of the work Uber is doing is training its management team. According to Coleman, 63 percent of Uber management are first-time managers. Those people are going through training to level-set education across the group.
In light of its investigations, Uber is facing an uphill battle in public perception, but it also is working to improve diversity in its workforce. In late March, the company released its first diversity report,
Worldwide, the company is 36.1 percent female and 63.9 percent male, with women making up just 15.4 percent of Uber’s tech workforce. The company is predominantly white, at just under 50 percent. It’s 8.8 percent black, 5.6 percent Latinx and 4.3 percent two more or races in the U.S. In technical roles, those percentages drop to 1 percent, 2.1 percent and 2.4 percent, respectively.
Clearly there’s still work to do. During his session, Coleman said there’s no silver bullet to fixing the diversity and inclusion issues at the company. The good news is that based on his experience, diversity and inclusion (D&I) is not under-resourced at Uber, unlike some other places where he’s worked.
At the same time, Coleman compared working on diversity at a company with 12,000 employees to retrofitting a house. When a company is just getting started, he said, it’s not thinking about what diversity looks like.
“The next thing you know you’re so big and you realize that this is important,” he said.
At TechCrunch Sessions: Justice today, New York Times bestselling author Shaka Senghor unveiled Mind Blown Media, a new media company that aims to create high-impact content focused on the criminal justice system and mass incarceration. Senghor, who spent 19 years in prison — seven of which were in solitary confinement — founded Mind Blown Media to tell the stories of people who have been impacted by the criminal justice system.
“I came out to this very different world, and I knew that there were stories that weren’t being told,” Senghor told me ahead of Justice. “But I also knew that there was a lack of connection between what was happening in our criminal justice system and what was happening in technology.”
Senghor started Mind Blown Media because no one would hire him, he told me.
“I haven’t had a traditional job since I’ve been out of prison,” he said. “People would tap me for information and I’ve helped develop other companies to a very high level. It was time to make a pivot and invest in myself. I want to make sure that other people are getting paid for their art.”
Mind Blown Media’s first piece of content will be a monologue show — a live event the company is currently developing to premiere in theaters. The show, called The Cell, will tell fictional stories based on the lives of real incarcerated people in a way that is authentic, accessible and filled with social impact, Senghor said.
“Prior to writing my memoir, I started off writing fiction and I believe that fiction offers us the greatest opportunity to tell the truth because it doesn’t make people put up the walls they do when they hear a personal narrative,” Senghor said. “But if you tell non-fiction stories in a heartfelt way to people that don’t come from that environment, they’re more open to hearing them.”
The idea with Mind Blown Media is to utilize current technologies to bring these untold stories to the masses — the stories of people who don’t have access to tech, who are at risk or come from underserved communities. With “What’s Good in the Hood,” Mind Blown Media will create a digital series showcasing people and places in misunderstood cities in America, and enable people from those communities to connect with each other and the masses online.
Down the road, the idea is to do a national tour in major cities and create an hour-long special with a digital content provider like Netflix, Amazon and HBO, and even bring the monologue show on the road in a Vagina Monologue-esque way. Just like the Vagina Monologues were helpful in getting “us neanderthal men to understand the complexities of vaginas,” Senghor said. The Cell aims to help people better understand what it’s like to be part of the criminal justice system.
Elon Musk couldn’t help but include some teasers in his Tesla shareholder meeting address on Tuesday, reiterating that the company would be holding a special event to reveal its Semi Truck at the end of September, but noting also that he would “really recommend showing up” for the event because “maybe there’s a little more than we’re saying here.”
The truck should be news enough – Musk said he believes it’s very possible for the company to create a practical, all-electric semi truck that will fit the needs of large freight trucking companies. He also said that Tesla is talking to those potential clients throughout the design process, so that the vehicle will be tailor-made for their needs once it comes to market.
He said that the response from most people they show their work on the project to in the industry has been “How many can we buy and how soon,” and added that what we’ll see in September at the unveil will be a “working prototype.” He also added that he expects Tesla to be able to achieve production at scale on the semi within “about two years,” or possibly even 18 months.
The comments around wha else to expect at the event made it seem like Tesla will have other news to share totally unrelated from the vehicle itself, however. Musk was coy about the additional news, but did take a tangent later on to talk about music in response to a question about his own musical tastes. He said that it’s currently “very hard to find good playlists or good matching algorithms” in music, and said Tesla will have an announcement about finding the right music later this year.
It didn’t sound like that was the special additional reveal coming at the semi truck event, but as always, it’s hard to tell with Musk. Still, it sounds like September will be big for Tesla – 18 wheels big, sure, but maybe even bigger still.
During a Tesla shareholder press conference on Tuesday, CEO Elon Musk talked a bit more about the company’s plans around the upcoming Model Y crossover/small SUV vehicle. The company “made a mistake in trying to derive the Model X from the Model Y platform,” Musk noted, since it’s clear now it should focus on designing “an SUV the way it’s meant to be designed.”
The Model X was like a “Faberge Egg,” Musk said at the meeting, in that it’s a very complex creation with far too many configuration options. He noted that the company got “too excited” about the vehicle, and should’ve versioned more of the options out instead of front-loading them all at launch. That informed the much more modest configuration options that will launch with the Model 3 initially.
There will also be a new plant for the Model Y. The existing Gigafactory will supply battery packs and drivetrain for Model Y, but there’s “just no room at Fremont, we are bursting at the seams,” Musk said. “We practically had a riot the other day for parking,” he added, due to contractors on site to help install equipment to build the Model 3.
The Model Y will use a new, different platform, as Musk noted at the beginning of May, which is a change from earlier reports it would be based on the Model 3 platform. Musk said that the company is instead focusing on manufacturing improvements that can decrease costs even when building a new, fit-for-purpose vehicle platform.
As he’s said previously, Musk noted that he’s aiming to get the Model Y on roads by 2019, and he said he also expects demand for the vehicle to exceed that of the Model 3. He also added that the company would be seeking to reduce the “force majeure” risk in its supply chain for Model Y production, which is a result of it being spread across almost the entire globe.
Telsa also teased a first, heavily obscured image of the Model Y design, which you can see above. Notably, it doesn’t seem to have any obvious rear-view mirrors – perhaps these are replaced by in-cockpit displays fed by cameras? Or it’s just a quirk of a very early mockup.
Tesla says that it should be able to deliver its first production Model 3 next month, and also noted that it’ll reveal the Model 3 configurator at that time. The configurator won’t offer a lot of choice, however – Tesla CEO Elon Musk said at a shareholder meeting on Tuesday that it’ll basically let you pick “what color” and “what size wheels” you want.
The plan is to reveal additional configuration options over time, but Musk noted that this simplification came from lessons learned from the launch of the Model X, which offered way too many options initially, increasing manufacturing complexity significantly. The Model 3 configuration has intentionally been kept simple at launch to help with production volume, but reveals of other configuration options will happen on a staged timeline after the company makes sure it gets everything right.
There’s a large backlog that Tesla needs to get through, Musk noted at the meeting, which is a good reason to keep things simple. He said that if you pre-order a Model 3 today, you likely won’t receive a car until “the end of next year,” and he added that the line is only growing, so that delay shouldn’t discourage anyone from putting down cash towards a reservation.
The new HomePod sounds great. I walked away from WWDC impressed with the full and rich sound the company has managed to get out of such a small form factor. There’s nice hardware on-board and a lot happening on the back end to create an optimal audio experience, including a six-mic array that sonically maps the room the speaker is in.
Other smart home hubs like the Echo – and many similarly priced home priced home speaker systems – can’t hold a candle to what the HomePod is able to replicate sonically. It’s easy to see why Apple is leading with the speaker bit here. Unlike devices like the Echo and Google Home, audio part isn’t secondary functionality. I would actually use the HomePod as my apartment speaker movies and music. I can’t say the same for the Echo.
The HomePod is a very Apple approach to the home hub. It’s a premium device – both with regard to build quality and performance, as well as price at $350. It also keeps with Steve Jobs’ longstanding use of music as a means for launching new products and services.Come for the nice speakers, stay for the home assistant.
It echoes how the company launched Siri in the first place. The assistant wasn’t the selling point of the new iPhone, but it was definitely a nice bonus. Ditto for the Apple TV, where Siri functionality arrived a few upgrades after launch. Apple wants to deliver its smart assistant to your home, but it doesn’t really want to make a big show of it.
Apple’s approach to home automation has been measured – cautious, even. Its strategy has been unfolding for a couple of years now, through the launch of HomeKit for connected device developers, and then the addition of the Home app to iOS 10. The company clearly recognizes that the home is the next frontier on which the consumer electronics battle will be waged, but its approach hasn’t been particularly pro-active.
And while the HomePod is the closest the company has offered to a standalone connected solution, the device is a markedly different approach than Amazon, which is working to get its solution in as many hands as possible by pricing Echo devices as close to cost as possible. As a commerce platform, Amazon’s path to profitability is more about the products it sells through Alexa than the Alexa products themselves.



For Apple, profitability comes in the form of product sales and keeping users locked into its Ecosystem. For that reason, it’s vital that it offer Siri up on the sort of premium experience the company has built its name around. And indeed, the HomePod is pure Apple, starting with the design language that eliminates ports completely. It’s a typical bit of Apple minimalism. If the Mac Pro was a speaker, it would be the HomePod.
Before yesterday’s WWDC keynote, it was clear that Apple had quite a bit of catching up to do with its connected home play. And yesterday’s news didn’t do much to highlight its long term play. The HomePod’s price point is nearly double that of the standard Echo. And the company definitely can’t compete with the Dot’s $50 price tag, which has made Amazon’s offering a compelling option for those who simply want to want to dip their toes in the smart assistant waters.
If Apple wants to be truly competitive in the smart home market, it’s going to have to find a more accessible entry point. For now, however, the company appears to be more interested in offering a premium audio experience than it does putting Siri in as many homes as possible. Perhaps that focus will shift as it builds more solutions with Siri baked in or looks toward third-parties to integrate the functionality into their own premium smart home solutions like Amazon has begun to do with Alexa.
In the meantime, the dream of taking a big chunk out of Alexa’s living room market share doesn’t feel much closer than it did ahead of WWDC. Right now it seems the company is rapidly losing market and mindshare to Amazon on the smart home front. Though as with VR, it would likely tell you that it’s still early days for the smart home. And as such, the company is more interested in delivering a premium product than it is blanketing the market.
Cadre, a three-year-old, New York-based real estate startup, has raised $65 million in Series C funding led by Andreessen Horowitz.
Famed VC Jim Breyer of Breyer Capital also joined the round, along with the Ford Foundation, General Catalyst Partners, Goldman Sachs, Khosla Ventures and Thrive Capital.
Ryan Williams, a Goldman Sachs and Blackstone alum, co-founded Cadre along with Joshua Kushner and Jared Kushner. The brothers are part of a renowned New York real estate family; Joshua is now a full-time venture capitalist and Jared is now better-known as the son-in-law of, and White House senior advisor to, President Trump.
Cadre, which aims to make it easier for family offices, endowments and other moneyed investors to invest in real estate using technology, closed its Series B round with $50 million in January of 2016. It raised $18.3 million in Series A funding in 2015.
Williams appeared onstage at TechCrunch’s New York Disrupt event several weeks ago; he said that while Cadre today services wealthy investors, he believes that over time, Cadre can grow to serve a more diverse group of customers.
Meanwhile, the deal marks the latest in a small but growing string of real-estate-related bets for Andreessen Horowitz, whose general partner (and former OpenTable CEO) Jeff Jordan led the deal.
Nearly two years ago, the Sand Hill Road firm brought aboard serial entrepreneur Alex Rampell as a general partner to focus on fintech, including as it relates to real estate as a new asset class.
One of Rampell’s earlier bets is Point, a two-year-old startup that invites homeowners to sell a fraction of their home to long-term investors. Point founder Eddie Lim appeared onstage with Williams last month at Disrupt. You can check out that sit-down below.
Can AI be used to intelligently rank expertise? Serial entrepreneur Peter Relan thinks it can, and has today launched what he’s billing as a “knowledge-as-service” (KaaS) web platform to connect (human) experts with professionals seeking the answer to specific tech tool-related problems.
In the first instance the target users are professionals wrangling Excel and Google Sheets, with the platform aiming to link them (via their spreadsheet-related problem) to a relevant expert — with the help session taking place via the medium of web-based text chat.
But the wider ambition is to be able to use its expertise-ranking algorithms to intelligently assess all sorts of techie knowledge to be able to connect relevant experts with different professional “knowledge based problems”. Relan likens the concept to how Google’s pagerank dynamically orders online data.
“A page’s rank can drop or get better depending on other pages who may be pointing to the page and their ranks. We use that idea by enabling any expert in a topic to audit the work of other experts in that topic and using their ranks to influence the score of the audit. The difference is it doesn’t take months to “crawl and re-index”. Expert rank is always working to update based on the last audit,” he says.
“We’ve recently received a patent application for this approach. It’s really the first algorithm that combines the link analysis structure of page rank with gig economy measures of performance. If an expert does not work for a long time they may well have to take the onboarding test again in their topic and start with a seedrank.”
The newly launched KaaS platform, which is called Got It Pro, expands on the team’s first app (previously called Got It, now renamed Got It Study). That earlier app specifically targeted students stuck on homework, offering 10-minute chat sessions to help them solve a math or chemistry problem, with help sessions priced at between $0.99 to $3.99.
Got It Pro doubles the chat help session time to 20 minutes to offer “on demand help” for professionals — albeit, only for spreadsheet-related queries in the first instance. Pricing is between $3.99 to $5.99 per session. The intent is to add more subjects and experts to expand the range of professional problems it can cater to.
Relan incubated Got It in one of his own accelerators, bootstrapping it with $120k to build the first app, before raising a $2.5M seed from Kinzon Capital in 2015 to start work on the now launched KaaS platform. The team has also previously taken in $6.4M from Capricorn Investment Group — bringing their total raised to date to just over $10M.
“We are initially focused on problems, not general advice. For example a question like “should I use the new histogram chart in Excel?” is a general advice question. But the question “I’m using countif to do a histogram in this sheet. Here take a look at it. Why is it not generating the right histogram?” is a pressing problem someone is working on,” he tells TechCrunch.
“We are focused on the second type of problem related knowledge. The first type are better for Quora or Stackoverflow. They have thousands of questions posted everyday. Some of the first type and some of the second type. So we will coexist with them but address those problems which are well-defined in any tools or technology or apps related field important to one billion knowledge workers over time.”
There are some 25,000 problem solvers on its platform with an “expertrank” at this point (which is its own algorithmic benchmark based on AI-assisted human analysis of each expert’s problem solving skills), though far more have applied — only around 10 per cent make it through the vetting process, according to Relan.
Some 2.5M 10 minute help sessions have been completed via the earlier Got It app, which has a user-based of 1.5M on iOS and 300,000 on Android — asking an average of two questions per week.
“[Experts] are professionals and teachers and retirees and students and analysts and product managers. We support STEM subjects in Got It Study and Excel and Google Sheets in Got It Pro today. New subjects are being prepared but we will share these as they launch,” he says.
“The main selling point [for users] is that we get you to an expert within seconds so that’s as fast as selecting a link on google and scanning an article. But in our case we also offer a guarantee. That in a 20 minute chat session your problem will be solved. Q&A included. Google articles can’t provide that. It’s a maybe. Same with forums.”
Of course, Googling answers may be variable but its main cost is time — so it remains to be seen how many people are in such haste to fix their spreadsheet nightmare they’re prepared to stump up cash monies for an ‘instant’ 20-minute fix.
As well as its proprietary expertrank algorithm, the other piece of key tech is the platform’s real-time marketplace management of its experts — so every time a user submits a problem it goes through a real-time global auction (taking about 30 seconds, according to Relan) to match them with a relevant expert who can answer their problem.
“First experts are notified of a new problem and they bid and then their ranks and bids are dynamically evaluated to find the most relevant expert at an affordable price,” he says. “Since we are not a physical logistics service we are not constrained by location. We could have hundreds of candidate experts bidding for a problem. So the marketplace management at scale for a relevant match in real time is the other core tech piece. Like running the NYSE but for knowledge problems albeit just a tad slower :)”
The team is planning to launch a freemium layer in future, staffed by chatbots (rather than human experts) — albeit it’ll be training these on its “problem solution corpus”.
“That will be free but a bit generic,” he adds. “So if you try that but still want to dive deep with a human expert with specific Q&A for a very specialized problem that’s when you go for a paid session.”
Amazon announced today it’s making its Prime membership program more affordable to customers on government assistance programs, including food stamps. The program, which requires that customers have a valid Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) card to qualify, will bring the cost of Prime down from $10.99 per month to just about half that, at $5.99 per month instead.
The program will be available to any U.S. customer with a valid EBT card – the card that’s commonly used to disburse funds for a number of government assistance programs, including Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), and Women, Infants, and Children Nutrition Program (WIC).
The card will only discount the cost of using Prime – it cannot be used to make purchases on Amazon.com, nor can it be used to pay for membership.
The discounted membership will have all the perks associated with Prime, including free streaming video and music, free photo storage, access to the Kindle lending library, ability to shop from Amazon’s Essentials – the retailer’s low-cost line of everyday products, access to Prime Now (where available), and more.
The move will make Amazon Prime more accessible to lower-income households and families, and could help Amazon shake the reputation that shopping its site and paying for its membership program are luxuries instead of more essential services.
That’s different from the Amazon that exists today, where Prime’s growth has been fueled by upper-income shoppers.
A study from Piper Jaffray in 2016 found that Prime membership’s penetration is highest and growing the quickest among those households with more than $112,000 per year in annual income. More than 70 percent of those households have a Prime subscription, the study found.

However, there are benefits to bringing in the lower-income families online, too.
Though they may be on assistance, that doesn’t mean they don’t still need to shop for everyday items – clothing, school supplies, household goods, personal care items, etc. And in many cases, Amazon Prime may be offering the better price on a given item, compared with competitors like Walmart and others. Over time, those savings could add up making the cost of the $6 per month membership worthwhile.
This is especially true when you work other factors into the equation. For example, by shopping online, customers won’t have to spend the additional gas money going to the store and back. And, in some cases, customers don’t even have a vehicle at their disposal or are elderly, and require help with their shopping. Online shopping helps with these concerns as well.
Plus, for families with babies, a Prime membership includes a 20 percent discount on diapers and wipes subscriptions, which would also positively impact the household’s budget.
Finally, there’s the fact that Amazon, along with a number of online retailers, are working with the government on a program that will allow customers for the first time to use their food stamps (SNAP) via e-commerce websites.
Announced earlier this year, the USDA-led program is working with Amazon, Walmart, Thrive Market, FreshDirect, and other grocers to test how SNAP benefits could be used to pay for qualifying items – largely fresh goods, like those from Amazon’s Fresh grocery delivery service, as well as some packaged goods, like cereals, which are also available through Amazon Pantry. The pilot begins in early 2018.
Bringing SNAP members to Amazon Prime would be a first step in being able to attract those shoppers, who today receive the bulk (69 percent) of Federal food and nutrition assistance.
Last year, 44.2 million people per month participated in SNAP. Combined, spending for all of the USDA’s food and nutrition programs – including WIC, School Breakfast/Lunch, etc. – totaled $101.9 billion, with SNAP’s portion at $70.8 billion. That’s no small market – and worth certainly targeting, it could be argued.
But until SNAP is accepted online, Amazon has been going after lower-income households in other ways. For example, earlier this year it launched Amazon Cash – a way to shop its site with a debit or credit card. Instead, customers can add cash to their Amazon account at participating brick-and-mortar retailers.
“The ability to shop online has been limited – it’s an underserved audience,” explains an Amazon spokesperson. “E-commerce companies haven’t figured out how to help customers who may be uncomfortable paying with credit cards. The thinking at Amazon is that there’s so much value [with Amazon Prime] – there’s so much time, convenience, and savings…we felt like this was one small way to help a customer that’s temporarily in need.”
Customers can learn more about the program and sign up for a 30-day free trial at amazon.com/qualify. Amazon says it will consider expanding the program to others on government assistance, outside EBD card holders, in the future.

 Ross D. Franklin/AP
Talking about sexual health makes folks squeamish. While sexuality and dating have, for the most part, been taken care of by technology there isn’t much talk of sexual health online. Until Biem.
Biem is an app and service that makes it easy to talk to a sexual healthcare representative and get tests taken. It also lets you anonymously notify sexual partners if something is amiss and share your results with loved ones.
Co-Founder Bryan Stacy has felt the fear of STD tests and created Biem to assuage it in others.
“Because we aren’t educated on sexual health, it terrifies us,” he said. “That fear could have cost me my life when I delayed getting treatment for what ended up being testicular cancer and chlamydia. That fear is contributing the record-high STD rate in the US. Our goal is to expand and destigmatize the sexual health conversation so that we don’t get paralyzed by fear or overwhelmed by complicated medical processes.”
The service is clinically operation in New York state and move through regulatory hurdles to go national. They are raising a Series A.
The system is quite simple. Using the app you can speak to a qualified sexual health specialist for $45 about your problems and, if necessary, you can order a test.
“Testing can be performed at home or one of our partner lab locations,” said Stacy. “All diagnostics are FDA and CLEA certified to conform to regulatory standards. This is in contrast to ‘self-tests’ or ‘box tests’ that may not be FDA approved, have a history of inaccuracy, have no expertise available for interpretation, and most importantly little treatment choices.”
The company aims to partner with dating apps to enable communication and understanding of sexual health and diagnosis. In short, it helps everyone have just a little more fun without fear or confusion.
In most businesses, managing freelancers still mostly happens in Excel spreadsheets shared across the company. Shortlist wants to make this process more efficient by offering a single platform for managing and paying freelancers and independent contractors. The company, which was founded in 2015 by Martin Konrad (CEO) and Joey Fraiser (COO), today announced that it has raised a $1.5 million seed round from Impulse VC, FundersClub, Alchemist Accelerators and a number of angel investors, including Cisco’s VP on Innovation Maciej Kranz.
At the core of Shortlist is a company’s own curated list of freelancers. Shortlists focus is on very large customers who typically have to manage a large number of freelancers and independent contractors (though it’s obviously happy to work with smaller companies as well).
As Konrad told me, the number of contractors continues to increase (we’ve all heard about the “gig economy,” after all), but few companies have put the tools in place to effectively manage them. Shortlist promises to automate the process from on-boarding new freelancers to performing background checks, approving projects, and routing tasks and assignments to the right contractors.
The company’s current set of customers includes the likes of Publicis Groupe, CBRE, Hays, Roche, AKQA and Western Governors University. Indeed, as Konrad told me, the company’s main verticals currently include media, content production and higher education. It’s currently seeing 20 to 30 percent growth in customers month over month and its users now manage over 25,000 contractors on its platform.
Konrad told me that the team plans to use the new funding to continue to work on its product and especially to improve its payouts and payments product. Even today, though, Shortlist already includes tools for invoicing, payments and access to tax forms (think 1099s and W9s), as well as a time sheets feature and an analytics tool that employers can use to track their freelance workforce.
As of now, companies have to bring their own contractors to the platform. Shortlist doesn’t offer a marketplace yet, but Konrad tells me that adding a freelancer marketplace is something the company would consider.
The team recently graduated from the Alchemist accelerator program, which focuses on B2B companies. Konrad noted that being part of the program introduced Shortlist to a lot of potential customers and that the company also found its lead investor through the program. The company now has 15 employees and has raised a total of $2.3 million.
Access to shortlist is free for companies that need to have fewer than 100 users on the platform and manage fewer than 1,000 freelancers (and freelancers and vendors get free access anyway). Unsurprisingly, the paid enterprise product includes features like single sign-on support, custom branding and integrations, as well as access to Shortlist’s payments and tax forms.


 Lewis Mulatero/Getty Images
Last week, ahead of WWDC, there was a ripple of news when Axios discovered that Bozoma Saint John — one of the more noticeable execs at the company for being a woman of color, who led an Apple Music demo at the previous year’s WWDC to some acclaim — was leaving Apple. Now TechCrunch has learned where she’s landing: she’s going to Uber.
We received the news via a tip, and have confirmed the appointment through multiple sources at Uber. The company, we understand, views the appointment as important in helping “turn the tide on recent issues.”
As for what role she will be taking, that’s something we’re still trying to figure out. We understand that Uber will be making more details public later. Saint John’s track record is in marketing — most recently at Apple but also with a long stint at Pepsi, among other places. [Update: she’s Uber’s new Chief Brand Officer, the company announced later.]
The appointment is a key move for Uber that could help shore up confidence in the company both internally and externally as it fights to justify its $70 billion valuation by investors.
Uber has been under fire for months for its management practices and company culture. Some critics and competitors have looked to drive business away from the company with a #deleteuber campaign (which has been working to some extent).
In terms of executive news, most of it in the last six months has been about departures rather than hires. Those who have left Uber in recent times have included the VP of maps and business platform Brian McClendon, president Jeff Jones, AI lead Gary Marcus, communications SVP Rachel Whetstone, VP of global vehicle programs Sherif Marakby, VP of product Ed Baker, SVP of engineering Amit Singhal and self-driving car head Anthony Levandowski.
Saint John, who had been head of global and consumer marketing for iTunes and Apple Music, was a surprise hit at last year’s WWDC conference. Her charismatic appearance on stage not only gave the dad-joke peppered event a little more oomph, but it also underscored a bigger conversation we’ve been having in the tech industry about diversity, strong role models and which companies have been taking a leadership position in that area.
Uber’s record on diversity is not brilliant — but as we have pointed out it’s not the worst, either — and hiring Saint John speaks to how this continues to evolve.
Regardless of whether she takes a marketing role or something else, Saint John coming on board is part of Uber’s efforts to reposition itself as a different kind of company than it has been in the past.
That repositioning has been ongoing. Just yesterday the company announced a new hire, Frances Frei, an academic from Harvard Business School, taking a new role as SVP of leadership and strategy. There is also a report coming soon with the results of an investigation led by former Attorney General Eric Holder into the company’s management culture — which was spurred by allegations of sexism and other criticisms of company culture.
Amidst the bad news, Uber continues to see growth. In the first quarter of this year, revenues were up 18 percent over the previous quarter to $3.4 billion while losses were $708 million, down from over $900 million the quarter before. Between Q3 and Q4 of last year, Uber grew by 74 percent. (Note: seasonal fluctuations — Q4 is the holiday season — are part of the reason for this drastic shift, and Uber has not released year-on-year figures.)
HONK, the Los Angeles-based startup providing roadside assistance services through a mobile app, is partnering with the massive insurer Farmers Insurance Group to white label its technology.
People with knowledge of the deal said it could be worth over $150 million to Honk, as it eyes an international rollout, but chief executive Corey Brundage and president Avesta Rasouli declined to confirm or deny that figure.
“Today, it’s less and less about what resources a firm owns or controls, but rather the connections it can efficiently make,” said Rasouli in an email about the new partnership.
Brundage said HONK first began talking to Farmers last June and set up a small pilot with the massive insurance company not long after. It’s the first of several pilots that HONK will look to monetize as it attempts to take a bite out of the global market for roadside assistance services.
The company’s growth has already managed to make industry leader AAA squirm. Writing on the Arena Ventures company blog, a writer chronicled the back and forth between HONK and triple A on a number of fronts — including the venerable roadside assistance company’s attempts to adopt some of Uber’s “dirty tricks” of ride-hailing and canceling.
As the largest trackable, traceable roadside assistance company in the U.S., HONK has at its disposal a fleet of roughly 55,000 trucks (it’s basically the Uber for towing).
Why would Farmers be willing to pay up to nine figures for roadside assistance? Well… the answer lies with how often customers call for that service versus trying to file a claim or pursue any other action with their insurers.
According to Brundage, calling for roadside assistance is what customers talk to insurers about the most.  “We will ‘talk’ to their customers more frequently than they do,” says Brundage.
Beyond that, roadside assistance is a huge, fragmented market. According to the market research firm, IBISWorld, customers spend roughly $6 billion on roadside assistance services.
Customers call for a tow directly from HONK via mobile web or the company’s app to find a nearby professional and track the location and estimated time of arrival of their tow truck in real-time. Insurance companies, auto OEMs, and fleets use the company’s transparent platform to reduce wait times by over 50%, improve customer satisfaction, harness their roadside assistance data and receive industry leading net promoter scores, according to a statement.
“We’re very excited about the Farmers deal,” says Rasouli. “And it’s the first of many.”

 David Dennis/Flickr UNDER A CC BY-ND 2.0 LICENSE
Pokémon fans will have a lot to enjoy this coming fall; not only is Pokkén Tournament DX arriving as the first Pokémon Switch title, but Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon, follow-ups to Sun and Moon, are arriving on the 3DS family of systems on November 17. We don’t know much about the new games yet, but if they follow the pattern of past releases, they’ll add new story elements, characters, and Pokémon into the world established in the originals, which came out around the same time in 2016.
The Sun and Moon series were themselves big departures for the series, rethinking a lot of the basic play elements. It’ll be very interesting to see what Nintendo has in store for the return visits to the new universe they created, which occupy a Hawaii-like archipelago of islands in the fictional universe.
Finally, players will also be able to dive back into Pokémon Gold and Silver on virtual console on the 3DS family of systems, starting on September 22. That means whether you like the new style of Pokémon games, fighting franchises or the old school versions, you’ll have something to enjoy in the Poké way come fall.
If you’ve spent any time in Silicon Valley offices you’ll see the ubiquitous bottles of Hint water splashed out along kitchen counters and desks. Kara Goldin, this week’s Technotopia guest, created the water after discovering that diet soda was making her overweight and overwrought and she has a lot to say about the future of food and drink.
Goldin talked to us about what the food chain will look like in 20 years and why it’s so broken now. You can check out Hint water here or just watch the HBO show Silicon Valley where all the lads drink it endlessly.
Technotopia is a podcast about a better future by John Biggs. You can subscribe in Stitcher or iTunes and download the MP3 here.




MediaMath, a company offering tools and data for automated ad-buying, announced today that it has secured a $175 million credit facility.
The deal was led by Goldman Sachs, with participation from Santander Bank.
The company says this financing will fund its continued growth and allow it to refinance existing debt. (MediaMath’s 2014 funding round included $105 million in debt.)
In a note to MediaMath employees, CFO Stacey Bain said this doesn’t mean the company chose more debt “instead of” an equity funding round: “In fact, this line of credit allows us to be flexible in terms of how and when we decide to raise another round of equity, ensuring we get the best deal for MediaMath.”
 And while the IPO market seems to be improving for tech companies (including, perhaps, adtech), Bain also wrote that this isn’t setting MediaMath up to go public: “Right now, we like operating privately and we’ll explore an IPO when and if it makes sense for MediaMath.”
The company says it now has nearly 700 employees and works with all of the major ad holding companies.
“We’re thrilled to work with Goldman Sachs and Santander, who are equally ambitious to support the growing scale of our business today, and motivated to support the needs of a reimagined and increasingly sophisticated supply chain in the future,” said CEO Joe Zawadzki in the funding release.

 Smartline/Shutterstock
Nintendo hosted on of its Nintendo Direct streaming events today, just ahead of E3, and it had big news to share for one of its most popular and beloved game franchises: Pokémon is coming to Nintendo Switch, with its first appearance courtesy of Pokkén Tournament DX, the Pokémon fighting game.
The news came via a dedicated Pokémon Direct edition of Nintendo’s direct show, which gives you an idea of how important the company thinks the news will be for the console and for gamers. It’s definitely something I saw crop up frequently among fan and enthusiast reaction when the Switch was originally announced, and Nintendo’s confirmation that Pokémon would appear in some form on the platform only stoked the flames of fandom.
Switch launched with a relatively light game lineup, though the flagship Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild garnered rave critical reviews and player plaudits. The addition of another solid offering, in addition to the recently released Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and the forthcoming Super Mario Odyssey, should give Switch all the first-party hype juice it needs to continue to drive strong console sales.
Pokkén Tournament offers a range of play options based on Switch’s unique multiplayer option, including local, tabletop and team battles and online play. It’s going to be available on Sept. 22, 2017, and there will be a playable version at E3 this year.
The RealReal, a six-year-old, San Francisco-based company focused on authenticated, high-end resale items for women, men, and the home, has landed $50 million in growth funding from the private equity firm Great Hill Partners.
The round, which brings the company’s total funding to $173 million, did not include previous backers; a spokeswoman for the company says Great Hill “wanted all of the investment.”
The cash infusion comes at an important juncture for The RealReal, which now employs more than 800 people and has pushed out the time by which it will turn profitable, setting its sights instead on spreading brand awareness by expanding its physical footprint.
Already, the company has opened six valuation offices in the last 18 months, including in San Francisco, New York, L.A., Chicago, and Washington, D.C. The spaces enable consignors to consult directly with valuation experts about their fine jewelry and watches.
Last month, in a sit-down with this editor in San Francisco, CEO Julie Wainwright said that The RealReal is also weighing a strategy of opening a series of brick-and-mortar stores, starting first with one New York location that a RealReal spokeswoman says is still being locked down and should be open for business in late fall or early winter this year.
The company decided to move part of its business offline following the success of a pop-up store that it set up in New York’s Soho neighborhood for two weeks last December. According to Wainwright, the store generated more than $2 million revenue, and half the shoppers were new to the company.
“Some had heard of us but they hadn’t shopped because they didn’t understand the quality.” That changed when they saw firsthand what the brand is selling, she’d said. “When you have 100 Birkins on the wall and people have never seen that — even at Hermes — they tend to call their friends.”
In our recent interview, Wainwright told us that 80 percent of The RealReal’s shoppers are women, with men mostly buying watches and leather goods for themselves. She also said that for every four buyers, The RealReal has one consignor — and that half of these consignors also buy goods on the site. (The RealReal, began with, and still predominately sells, women’s high-end apparel.) Not last, she said the company is on track to see $500 million in merchandise sold through the platform this year.
The RealReal’s newest round comes on the heels of a $40 million Series E  round that the company closed last year and which was led by Greenspring Associates. Others of its earlier investors include Broadway Angels, Next Equity, Springboard Fund, Canaan Partners, e.ventures, Greycroft Partners, InterWest Partners, DBL Partners, and Industry Ventures.
Apple is working on a way to bring businesses to the iMessage platform, in order to answer customer questions, offer customer service and even perform transactions. Though not announced at WWDC, a new page on Apple’s Developer site briefly details this new service, dubbed “Business Chat,” which will be able to operate across platforms, including iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch.
Further details about how Business Chat are not yet known – according to Apple’s website, the service will be introduced on Friday, June 9th, at a WWDC session.
Business Chat sounds a lot like Apple’s attempt to move into a space where social networks like Facebook and Twitter today dominate. Twitter has recently doubled down on customer service, with a variety of new tools like welcome messages, quick replies, custom profiles, location sharing, chatbots, and more.
Meanwhile, Facebook, which now has 1.2 billion monthly users, has made doing business on Messenger a part of what it means to operate a Facebook Page. It also has support for things like business usernames on Messenger, automatic greetings, short and memorable links for promoting a business’s Messenger presence, chatbots, transactions, and more.
Though more details are still forthcoming, there are things we can learn now about Business Chat from the short description on the Apple Developer website. For starters, Business Chat will be deeply integrated into the iOS operating system and within Apple’s own native apps. The idea is that when a consumer is looking up business information, instead of simply being presented with a phone number to call as on Google, they’ll instead have the option to start a chat session using iMessage.
Apple says customers will be able to find businesses and then start conversations from Safari, Maps, Spotlight, and Siri. In addition, Apple touts that Business Chat will be integrated with other services, including Apple Pay for transactions, and Calendar. It also notes that businesses can bring their own iMessage app into the conversation.
The image on the website shows a Business Chat session in action between an Apple support representative and a customer inquiring about iPad recommendations (naturally). The session looks just like any other iMessage chat conversation, except the banner at the top of the screen is a dark gray and the chats are in shades of gray, instead of blue and gray text bubbles.
Also worth noting is that the business in question in the image (Apple), seems to have what looks like a Verified checkmark next to its name. The Verified badge is something that Twitter popularized, but is also available on other social platforms like Facebook and Instagram where it’s used to indicate that the profile in question is the official one representing the brand or public figure, as the case may be.
Presumably, Business Chat would roll out to the public when iOS 11 ships this fall.
At least since Isaac Asimov posited the Three Law of Robotics, many have wondered whether robots would ultimately help or harm humanity. Or maybe do a little of both. Humanity still has time to shape the answer to that question, and we’re pleased to announce three speakers who have distinctive, grounded perspectives on how to secure a world made better (not worse) by robots.
These speakers join our agenda for TechCrunch Sessions: Robotics, our first one-day event dedicated to discussing the core topics facing the robotics industry. General admission tickets are currently available for purchase though seating is very limited.
The event takes place on July 17 in Boston at MIT’s stunning Kresge Auditorium. It will be a great time and we hope to see you there.

David Barrett is a professor of mechanical engineering at Olin College, where has helped pioneer new approaches to training future robotics engineers and advocated the development of “eusocial” robotics – a robotic sensibility driven to act for the common good. Prof. Barrett has more than 25 years experience in robotics, including VP of engineering at  iRobot, director of the Walt Disney Imagineering Corporation, research engineer at MIT’s Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, and technical director at Draper Laboratory. He has a PhD in ocean engineering from MIT.
David Edelman is leading the Project on Technology, the Economy, and National Security (TENS) at the MIT, which is a joint position between MIT CSAIL and MIT’s Center for International Studies. Edelman recently left government, where he served for the past seven years in a variety of roles, including Special Assistant to President Barack Obama on issues of the digital economy and national security, including the impact of robotics on the economy and cyberwarfare. He has a PhD in international relations from the University of Oxford. 
Brian Pierce is the director of the DARPA Information Innovation Office (I2O) and has 30 years of experience developing advanced technologies in the aerospace/defense industry. Prior to joining DARPA, he was a technical director in Space and Airborne Systems at the Raytheon Company. Dr. Pierce earned a PhD  in chemistry at  the University of California at Riverside. He has more than 20 U.S. patents. 

Agenda
TC Sessions: Robotics
July 17, 2017 @ MIT’s Kresge Auditorium
9:00 AM – 9:05 AMOpening Remarks from Matthew Panzarino
9:05 AM – 9:25 AMWhat’s Next at MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory with Daniela Rus (MIT CSAIL)
9:25 AM – 9:50 AM Is Venture Ready for Robotics? with Manish Kothari (SRI), Josh Wolfe (Lux Capital) and Helen Zelman (Lemnos)
10:10 AM – 10:35 AMCollaborative Robots At Work with Clara Vu (VEO),  Jerome Dubois (6 River Systems) and Holly Yanco (UMass Lowell)
10:35 AM – 10:55 AMCoffee Break
10:55 AM – 11:20 AMBuilding A Robotics Startup from Angel to Exit with Helen Greiner (CyPhy Works), Andy Wheeler (GV) and Elaine Chen (Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship)
11:20 AM – 11:30 AM Soft Robotics (Carl Vause) Demo
11:30 AM – 11:55 AMRe-imagineering Disney Robotics with Martin Buehler (Disney Imagineering)
12:00 PM – 1:00 PMLunch and Workshops TBA
1:00 PM – 1:20 PMRobots at Amazon with Tye Brady (Amazon Robotics)
1:20 PM – 1:55 PMWhen Robots Fly with Buddy Michini (Airware), Andreas Raptopoulos (Matternet) and Anil Nanduri (Intel)
1:55 PM – 2:15 PMPackbot, Roomba and Beyond with Colin Angle (iRobot)
2:15 PM – 2:35 PMBuilding Better Bionics Samantha Payne (Open Bionics) and TBA
2:35 PM – 2:45 PMDemo TBA
2:45 PM – 3:05 PMThe Future of Industrial Robotics with Sami Atiya (ABB)
3:05 PM – 3:25 PMCoffee Break
3:25 – 3:35 PMDemo TBA
3:35 PM – 4:15 PMRobotics Startup Pitch-off (Judges and contestants TBA)
4:15 PM – 4:35 PMThe Age Of The Household Robot with Gill Pratt (Toyota Research Institute)
4:35 PM – 4:55 PMBuilding The Robot Brain with Heather Ames (Neurala) and Brian Gerky (OSRF) and TBA
4:55 PM – 5:20 PMRobots, AI and Humanity with David Barrett (Olin), David Edelman (MIT) and Dr. Brian Pierce (DARPA) and TBA
5:20 PM – 5:25 PMWrap Up 
5:25 PM -7:00 PMReception  
For years, Box has been seen by many in the press, analyst and investor communities as a storage product and nothing more, which given its roots, was an understandable misperception. But CEO Aaron Levie and his company have always had a much broader ambition.
Through the years, Levie made it clear that he was in business to transform the entire category of enterprise content management, and that meant storage was simply a part of a larger platform of services, not the end game by any means. Yet the storage piece stubbornly persisted as the central perception of the company to the point that perhaps it was time to change the messaging.
In its most recent quarterly report earnings call, delivered on May 31st, Levie used the words “content management” 12 times in his introductory remarks. I don’t think this was a coincidence.
The overall approach appears to be working as revenue continues to grow steadily. Over the last five quarters the company has grown from $90.2 million in Q1 2017 to $117.2 million in the most recent quarter, Q1 2018.
Chart: Box
 
“We delivered year-over-year revenue growth of 30%, grew billings 31% and generated positive free cash flow. These results demonstrate the significant need for cloud content management in all industries and the inherent leverage in our business model,” Levie stated in the call.
Levie went on to say that the growth was driven in large part by the introduction of some new products that have greatly expanded the company’s market reach and helped give more credence to that content management messaging.
“We introduced significant new capabilities to drive continued adoption of our Box KeySafe, Zones, Governance and Platform products. Our product innovation and new products are key competitive differentiators and significant growth drivers for Box,” Levie explained in the call.
He added that customers bought at least one of these new products in 60 percent of the deals over $100,000, and Levie emphasized the idea of Box replacing legacy enterprise content management systems from vendors like Microsoft, IBM and OpenText as a key part of his company’s strategy, while also emphasizing partnerships with some of these same companies, particularly IBM.
And that was always the goal. Even in its earliest marketing campaigns, Box (then known as Box.net) boldly went after Microsoft Sharepoint on billboards on Highway 101, and it has been those legacy vendors like Microsoft that the company has always had firmly in its sights. What it lacked was a complete content management platform. It’s much closer to that now and the results are beginning to show.
Photo: Box
“Our new products are also opening up opportunities for Box to replace legacy enterprise content management systems. We are seeing increasing momentum from customers looking to move to Box and retire the legacy content management solutions over time,” Levie stated in the call.
Whatever you call their underlying business, companies like Cisco, GE, Airbnb and Uber have switched to Box for their content management needs. The messaging, the vision and the functionality seem to be finally coming together, just as Levie always predicted they would.
New Yorkers are about to get even more friendly!* Today, Via and Curb are bringing ride-sharing through a digital wallet to yellow taxis in the Big Apple.
Both apps will let New Yorkers hail a yellow taxi with a ride-sharing option, with Via’s intelligent routing platform ensuring that the driver takes the most efficient route possible on multi-passenger rides. The service can save users up to 40 percent on taxi rides, and the move this morning should catch the attention of Uber and Lyft with their competing UberPool and Lyft Line products.
But let’s rewind.
Verifone has been working with yellow taxis for years to provide technology like credit card terminals, digital meters, driver tablets, and passenger tablets. In August 2013, the company launched Way2Ride, letting smartphone users hail a taxi with their phone for the first time, pay for those rides with their smartphones, and effectively taking on Uber.
In October 2013, Verifone bought Curb (an existing ride-hailing app) and sunsetted Way2Ride while transferring users over to the Curb app.
For the last year, Curb has allowed to pay for the taxis they’re in after hailing with their hand, simply by downloading the app and punching in the code on the backseat screen of the taxi. The app also lets users hail cabs with their phone.
Verifone powers two-thirds of NYC’s approximately 15,000 cabs, and Curb to date has “a couple million accounts set up” and powers “several hundred thousand trips a month” according to Jason Gross, global head of product and marketing for taxis at Verifone. Gross added that NYC’s Curb is used for payments more often than all the other mobile wallets combined.
Meanwhile, Via has been around since September 2013, differentiating itself in the market by focusing primarily on multi-passenger rides and making them more efficient. Via works by looking at all drivers and all passengers to route the fastest, least cumbersome multi-passenger rides.



iPhone_Mockup_sharedtaxi_01




sharedride_allsteps




sharedridelaunchphoto5




 View Slideshow


Previous
Next
Exit


Via’s VP of Communication Gabrielle McCaig said that Via has 800,000 members who have signed up for the service, with more than 15 million rides across the markets Via serves (NYC, Chicago, and Washington D.C.).
With this partnership, users on either app can take advantage of ride-sharing in NYC’s yellow taxis, regardless of which app they use to hail the cab.
Gross explained that Verifone is interested in being a platform (like the App Store), instead of building out all the technology it wants for taxis on its own.
Given Via’s prowess with regard to multi-passenger rides — Via has raised upwards of $130 million in funding — Verifone/Curb brought the app into the fold to power routing for all ride-sharers in NYC Taxis. Meanwhile, Via can leverage Curb’s infiltration of the NYC Taxi market to reach more users.
Verifone licenses technology to taxi vendors, including individual taxi owners and fleet owners to bring better technology into their cabs.
Though Via and Curb wouldn’t disclose exact figures, the companies confirmed that the deal is based on a revenue share between the cabs, Via and Curb.
New Yorkers feeling friendly this morning can go check out the Curb and/or Via app themselves and ride to work with one of their fellow New Yorkers.
*Myself included.
Lyft has another partners in the world of autonomous vehicles, its third behind GM and Waymo if you’re keeping count. The newest partner is Nutonomy, the Boston-based autonomous vehicle technology company that made waves by being first to real roads with a self-driving taxi – thanks to a team-up with Singapore’s economic development board. Now, Nutonomy and Lyft are launching a self-driving ride hailing service closer to home – in Boston, where a pilot project will see a couple of cars begin picking up riders sometime in the coming months.
During a press call to discuss the new partnership, Lyft co-founder and CEO Logan Green noted that his company believes ride sharing will account for “over 80 percent of all miles traveled” within a couple of decades, and that the way this will happen is via autonomous vehicle tech. That’s why it’s entering into this partnership with Nutonomy, he said, which, in its first stage, will focus on the passenger experience.
Both Nutonomy and Lyft are relatively inexperienced when it comes to actually transporting passengers in self-driving vehicles, as Nutonomy CEO and co-founder Karl Iagnemma noted on the call. So, too, is basically everyone, however, since this is relatively untrodden territory.
“We don’t really know in detail how riders are going to engage with autonomous vehicles because, frankly, we just don’t have that much experience,” Iagnemma said. That’s why they’ll be looking to use this partnership to gather data on rider interaction with the service, from hailing, to meeting their vehicle, to in-car experience and more. Green noted that it’ll focus on the entire “end-to-end” rider journey, and will include a new extension of the Lyft app that appears in-car on tablets mounted within the vehicles used for the pilot.
Those cars will initially be a small number of Renault Zoe EVs, which Nutonomy began road-testing in Boston starting last November. Iagnemma confirmed that Nutonomy engineers are already working on integrating Lyft software into “a couple of” vehicles, to be deployed sometime “in the coming months,” for actual customer pickups, though no more specific timeline was given.
Green and Iagnemma noted that long-term, the companies hope to field “thousands” of Nutonomy vehicles on Lyft’s ride hailing network. Green wouldn’t comment specifically on how this partnership will or won’t impact existing work with GM and Waymo, only noting that each are completely separate agreements, each “very different” in nature.
The two are a good fit because they’re both “safety first organizations,” too, according to Green. But neither is ready yet to discuss exactly how riders from Lyft’s user pool will be selected to take part in the trial – Uber’s debut Pittsburgh service, which was open to regular riders, would alert customers that they’d be receiving an autonomous test vehicle after their trip was confirmed, and it’s likely Lyft will do something similar.
This partnership is also all about mutual benefit; no money is changing hands in either direction as a result of the deal.
“There is no financial arrangement between the two companies,” Logan confirmed. “It’s a collaborative, R&D-based partnership.”
In addition to its new collaborative effort with Lyft, Nutonomy recently announced a partnership with Peugot owner PSA for autonomous vehicle testing in Singapore. Iagnemma noted on the call that this is designed to ultimately help integrate Nutonomy’s tech in a range of PSA vehicles that can eventually be run on ride hailing platforms like Lyft’s, once they become more prevalent.
Meanwhile, Lyft has previously been reported to have plans to bring pilot self-driving taxi tests to market starting sometime next year, and earlier this year, it announced a new partnership with Waymo to work on public introduction of self-driving tech. Ultimately, there’s no reason for it to limit its partners on the autonomy software or hardware side, since it’ll likely hope to open its ride hailing network to a range of partners instead of limiting itself and its profit potential.
For religious Muslims looking to get started with investing, the options are limited. Average Muslim investors can’t afford the kind of nuanced advice that a high end financial advisor can provide, but they can’t just throw money at a random fund that might not be Sharia-compliant either.
Wahed CEO Junaid Wahedna believes there’s a better way — and with a new $5 million seed round he intends to prove it.
“It’s just a market that a lot of people are scared to enter,” Wahedna said in an interview with TechCrunch. He wants to adapt the robo-advisor model of finance services like Betterment to serve Muslims looking to build a halal portfolio. Like other algorithmic and digital investment resources, Wahed cuts out the middle man and many of the associated fees, opening up investment opportunities for clients who aren’t starting with massive wealth. Wahed’s minimum investment is $500, making it friendly to first-time investors.
“Religious muslims have certain rules they have to abide by,” Wahedna explains. That includes prohibitions against making money from certain forms of interest as well as forbidding investments in alcohol and firearms. Those concerns can lead to some not very strategic investment choices. “What a lot of muslims do is either keep the money in cash or put it in real estate,” Wahedna noted.
He tells the cautionary tale of a Bangladeshi cab driver he met who illustrates the potential pitfalls for religious Muslim investors. The man had moved to the U.S. with $100,000 and asked his imam what he should do with it. “He didn’t want to keep it in the bank and he didn’t know what to do. The leader of the mosque told him Apple stock was Sharia compliant… so he put all of his savings in Apple stock.”
Worse yet, “people literally keep their money in cash and forgo the interest,” Wahedna said. “They lose out over time, just because of their religion. There shouldn’t be a cost of being Muslim.”
And given the global Muslim population, he doesn’t believe that Wahed is a niche product at all. During Wahed’s 1,000-plus user beta, the team received interest from more than 30 U.S. states and countries around the world. And because Islam’s ethical guidelines at times have so much overlap with other religions, he even had Christian leaders inquiring about the product.
As the company explains:
“The Wahed approach to ethical investing in the digital age utilizes a human review panel to screen certain stocks, commodities and other investment types that are not socially responsible or Shariah compliant, before automating algorithm-based investments. Clients will receive a recommended optimised and diversified portfolio based on their own risk tolerance. Using Wahed, American Muslims can now digitally automate long-term, halal investments into securities such as Sukuks and gold, while managing their halal portfolios at a low cost.”
With the $5 million in funding, Wahedna looks to scale up. “There’s a huge amount of products we can offer, from mortgages to debit cards,” he said. “It’s not just one product.” Along with pushing out its app in the next two or three months, the debit card idea is Wahed’s next major step. “People need somewhere to keep their cash, not just invest it,” Wahedna said.
Wahed’s seed round came from a mix of investors, including Afkar Holdings Managing Partner Khalid Al Jassim, former JPMorgan Chase Managing Director John Elkhair and former McKinsey & Company partner Nasr-Eddine Benaissa.
For now, Wahed will focus on serving religious Muslims in the U.S., a community with plenty of wealth to invest. “This is just a completely ignored market,” Wahedna said. “We want to really show we can compete with the best.”

 Nattanitphoto/Shutterstock
TechCrunch is excited to announce that representatives from China’s top on-demand startups will be speaking at our inaugural event in Shenzhen.
Didi Chuxing, the company that beat Uber out of China, and red-hot bike-sharing startups Ofo and Mobike — which have pioneered a new kind of point-to-point transportation in China — are among the speakers confirmed for TechCrunch China in Shenzhen on June 19-20. Our China-based events attract thousands so go grab your tickets now — right here.
Stay tuned for more announcements around other interviewees and panelists who will take part in the event.
Beyond two days of insightful interviews and panel discussions, TechCrunch Shenzhen will include an exhibition hall, which, at our events in China, typically houses more than 100 startups and tech companies showing off a mix of hardware, software and other innovation. We’re also planning a range of events in and around the show with partners, we’ll have more details on that soon.
Now, here’s further information on those three companies named earlier.
Didi Chuxing needs little introduction, even outside of China where it doesn’t operate. The company, which is now the world’s second-highest valued private tech firm at $60 billion, beat out Uber in China and announced the acquisition of the U.S. company’s local business last year. Internationally, it has made investments in the U.S., India, Southeast Asia and Latin America and it recently revealed an ambition to expand operations outside of China.
We’re delighted to welcome Dr. Fengmin Gong, who heads up Didi’s recently opened U.S.-based research center, to the Shenzhen line-up. Dr. Gong and his team are responsible for developing Didi’s approach to artificial intelligence, self-driving car technology and security.
Didi has dominated its space in China, but there’s another up-and-coming area which is redefining transportation in the country today.
Bike-sharing companies have grabbed the headlines and investor dollars in China, and Mobike and Ofo are the world’s two biggest players.
Mobike has raised over $300 million this year from investors that include internet giant Tencent, Apple manufacturing partner Foxconn and Singapore’s state-owned investment firm Temasek. It has also expanded overseas beyond China, having amassed more than 10 million users on home soil already. With that in mind, we’re very happy to have Mobike co-founder and CTO Joe Xia join us to discuss how bike sharing is bringing the potential of the internet-of-things to life, among other topics.
Ofo, its key rival, meanwhile claims to be the industry’s first unicorn courtesy of a $400 million Series D round that was led by DST in February. Ofo co-founder Austin Zhang will appear on stage at the Shenzhen event to talk more about his company, the burgeoning industry and its potential to go beyond China.
Our first-ever Shenzhen event will take place June 19-20 at the I-Factory in Nanshan District — tickets are available now for $669. [Full event details here.]
Our sponsors help make our events happen. If you are interested in learning more about sponsorship opportunities, contact us by filling out this form.
As enterprises continue to move more of their computing to the cloud, and across an ever-expanding range of devices from computers to phones and tablets and more, hackers continue to find ways to break into those systems — resulting an unprecedented number of breaches globally. Now, one of the more prominent security startups fighting this has raised a significant round of funding to help tackle the issue head-on.
Netskope — a cloud-access security broker that has developed a platform to monitor a company’s disparate apps and devices, and set security policies to identify and prevent breaches — has raised $100 million in new funding.
The Series E was led by previous investors Lightspeed Venture Partners and Accel Partners, with Social Capital and Iconiq Capital also participating. The round also includes two new backers, Sapphire Ventures and Geodesic Capital. 
Netskope is not revealing its valuation in this round, but Sanjay Beri, its founder and CEO, said in an interview the other day that “it’s a significant upround” that the company will use to continue building out its team and customer base. He also said it’s likely to be its final venture funding round.
“We may never need to raise per se again,” he said. “Netskope has been clear since the beginning that our goal is to build a standalone, iconic security company and our plan is to remain standalone and on the IPO path.” For what it’s worth, one site that tracks venture funding in startups estimates that its pre-money valuation was around $938 million. It brings the total raised to date by Netskope to $231.4 million.
We first wrote about Netskope back in 2013, when the company was just coming out of stealth with some $21 million in funding from Social Capital and Lightspeed. Beri described the company to me back then as “the anti startup” because of the fact that so many of its early staff were 15-20 year veterans of the industry with previous experience at places like Palo Alto Networks, McAfee, and PayPal (Beri himself came from a long career in security engineering at Juniper Networks).
At the time that Netskope was emerging from stealth, enterprises were just beginning to move to cloud services and apps, although it was still relatively early in that trend.
Fast forward to today, and the use of apps and multiple devices and access points, often outside of physical offices, is commonplace at many businesses, and this has had a knock-on affect at Netskope.
Beri said the company processes “tens of billions” of cloud transactions per day from its customers, which includes the likes of Toyota, Nvidia, Levi’s and Intercontinental Hotels, New York Life and a number of health organizations — “more than any other company in the world”. 
That processing has highlighted some scary numbers: for example 26.5 percent of all malware files are shared by employees in the cloud. “In other words, one quarter of files infected are exposed and shared.”
“When you look at the cloud and the use of newer features like software as a service, platforms as a service, and the influx of apps based around the principles of social media, these have disrupted all the markets in the world, and that has disrupted the security market,” he continued. 
“Security has become one of the top topics businesses have to think about when they consider mobile and cloud and remote working. Security officers realise that they can’t use their old systems. The old way doesn’t work for the cloud.” The old way includes incumbents like Symantec, which Beri considers a key competitor.
The key behind Netskope’s platform is that it’s based around the principle of “privacy by design”, Beri noted, meaning that it’s not necessarily crawling everything that is passing through a network, but is rather based around policies created by the company: for example keywords and actions that might relate to health records and personal information, and how and where that data might be shared.
The company allows IT teams to track and identify activity across specific apps and devices — technology that has been secured so far with around 100 or so patents, the company says.
Netskope is not yet profitable, nor is it revealing revenues, but Beri said that the company has grown three-fold in the last year “in every metric you can think of,” including revenue.
The company’s growth and the market opportunity is what has also attracted this latest round of funding and the continued interest of its existing investors.
 “The cloud has precipitated a tectonic shift in the enterprise that has led to broader implications for computing and security,” said Arif Janmohamed, Partner at Lightspeed Venture Partners, in a statement. “Since the beginning, Netskope has never shied away from addressing these implications and forging the path in one of the most important segments of security today. We are pleased to be a lead investor in this round of funding as Netskope continues to realize their vision of building an iconic, lasting cloud security company.” 

 Getty Images
One of the ways companies fill their ranks with good employees is by scouting “passive talent,” or people who aren’t currently looking for new jobs but might be convinced with the right offer. This usually takes hours of networking, but a Tel Aviv-headquartered startup called Workey uses artificial intelligence to streamline the process by matching companies with potential candidates. Workey launched in the U.S. today and also announced that it has raised $8 million in Series A funding.
The round was led by PICO Partners and Magma VC and brings the total Workey has raised so far to $9.6 million, including its earlier seed funding. Workey will use the new capital to expand in the U.S., open an office in New York City, and hire people for its research and development and data science teams.
A LinkedIn study released last year found that recent college graduates are more likely to switch jobs at least twice before their early 30s than previous generations. Workey targets people who are interested in potential opportunities, but don’t want to broadcast their curiosity to everyone, including their current employers. Once they sign up for the site, they create an anonymous profile that is used to find positions their background and skills qualify them for.
Workey’s recommendation system then matches companies with promising candidates. If a company requests an introduction through the site, users can respond by revealing their full details. Otherwise, all rejections are anonymous. As an example, Workey’s co-founders say Yahoo has found several candidates by spending 10 minutes a week on Workey.
Founded in 2015 by Ben Reuveni, Danny Shteinberg, and Amichai Schreiber, Workey has worked with more than 400 companies so far, including Yahoo, Amazon, Dell EMC, and Oracle. In a group interview by email, the trio told TechCrunch that the anonymous platform helps mitigates hiring bias, because companies don’t see a candidate’s race, gender, ethnicity, or religion first. It also allows candidates to see how they stand in relation to the rest of the job market, which can help them during wage negotiations.
Another benefit is “combatting the stigma associated with job seekers.”
“Like it or not, there is much truth to the belief that candidates who are currently working are more desirable than those who are out of a job and full-time job hunting,” Workey’s founders explained. “Passive talent, those who are not actively looking but wouldn’t want to miss out on their dream job, are often the most desirable candidates since they typically are already secure in their current position (likely because they perform them well).”
Once they do decide to interview for a new job, Workey lets candidates track the status of their application, so they don’t spend weeks in limbo waiting for an offer or rejection. The startup works mainly with tech companies right now, because it was “invented by engineers for engineers,” but can be adapted for other industries. It’s free for job candidates and monetizes by charging companies a fee, but its founders claim that they potentially save thousands of dollars by using Workey’s AI instead of headhunters or recruitment agencies.
Workey isn’t the only career services startup that wants to use AI to streamline the recruitment process, which often takes months. Other companies that have developed AI tools to improve or replace headhunting, job searches, or interviews include Engage, FirstJob, Arya, and Mya. Though their services don’t necessarily overlap with Workey right now, it’s a sign that Workey’s competition is likely to increase soon. But its founders insist that “one of the most exciting aspects of business today is that there is no future-proofing. Workey will continue to evolve and grow, with a continued investment in R&D to ensure that we provide users with the best possible matches enhancing their careers.”

 Thomas Barwick/Getty Images
Shipt, the Birmingham, Ala.-based online grocery delivery marketplace, has raised another $40 million in its quest to rise above its southeastern roots to become the dominant grocery delivery brand in the U.S.
From its home southeast, Shipt is challenging companies like Instacart, Amazon, and Google with a strategy that had, to date, ignored many of the biggest coastal cities in the U.S. (like New York and Los Angeles) in favor of large cities in the southeast and midwest.
With the new $40 million in funding coming from the company’s previous backers, Greycroft Partners, e.ventures, and Harbert Venture Partners, Shipt is looking to aggressively expand beyond the 47 metro areas and 20 million families it currently serves to roughly 100 cities within the next year.
Astonishingly, the original crew of investors is essentially doubling down their $20 million investment from a little less than a year ago.
Rather than charge customers per-delivery, Shipt uses an annual membership model modeled after Amazon’s where customers pay $99 per year. Shipt also doesn’t focus on deliveries on demand, but instead provides customers with several delivery windows from which to choose.
By setting up those windows for delivery, the company can better manage logistics and improve the efficiency of its entire delivery system.
Shipt has already partnered with big grocery chains including H-E-B, Miejer, Costoc, Whole Foods and ABC Fine Wine and Spirits, according to a statement from the company. And its average basket size per-order of $110 is more than three times the in-store average for purchases.
“Shipt set out to transform the way people think about grocery shopping, and in the process they turned a service that was previously available to only a small subset of the population into an affordable luxury for millions of households,” said Ian Sigalow,  co-founder and partner at Greycroft, in a statement.
Shipt is actually well on its way toward meeting its 100 market target. The company is on track to expand to 60 new cities by the end of the year and is booking sales that are about 40% of its largest competitors’ (Instacart), off of one tenth of the amount of capital that its competitor raised.
Indeed, Shipt is roughly the same size as AmazonFresh and is bigger than Google Express (for the moment), a spokesperson said.
Unlike other on-demand services, Shipt offers a membership fee and unlimited free deliveries for its service. Through the Shipt app, members are able to shop for groceries, household goods and booze sold by the company’s retail partners.
“Grocery shopping is one of those activities that everyone has to do, but often feels like a chore. Shipt’s goal is to give people back the hours they would normally spend at the grocery store so that they can focus on the things that matter most to them,” said the company’s chief execuitve and founder, Bill Smith.
Apple CEO Tim Cook has revealed the company has been co-operating with the UK government in handing over metadata in the wake of a series of terror attacks in the country — which he described as “horrendous”.
Cook was speaking in an interview with Bloomberg following the first day of Apple’s WWDC developer event yesterday.
Responding to a question about Apple’s stance over privacy and security in the face of ongoing terror attacks around the world, he said: “We’ve been co-operating with the UK government — not only in law enforcement matters but in some of the attacks and I can’t speak in detail about that, but in cases where we have information and they’ve gone through the lawful process we not just give it but we do it very, very promptly.”
On Saturday a group of terrorists attacked people in London Bridge, using a van and knives. It’s the third attack in the UK since March, when a lone attacker struck in Westminster, also using knives and a car to mow down pedestrians. While, last month, a suicide bomber detonated a bomb vest in Manchester as people were leaving a pop concert — killing more than twenty people.
Little detail has emerged as yet about the kinds of communication technology the terrorists might have used to help plan and carry out their attacks, although early reports have suggested some of the perpetrators may have viewed extremist content via YouTube.
“I would hope that they [the UK authorities] would say we’ve been co-operating well,” said Cook, of the terror investigation, adding that he thought Apple had provided “some valuable information”.
Encryption doesn’t mean there’s no information. Because likely metadata exists and metadata, if you’re putting together a profile, is very important.
“Encryption doesn’t mean there’s no information,” he added. “Because likely metadata exists and metadata, if you’re putting together a profile, is very important.”
In February 2016 Apple was drawn into a public spat in the US with the FBI over access to a locked iPhone that had been used in another terrorist incident after the agency tried to use the courts to force Apple to make changes to the device’s security system in order to make its passcode crackable.
Apple refused to do so, couching this as a request for a backdoor, and in the end the FBI managed to break into the device by purchasing an exploit from a third party company.
So the key portions of Cook’s response on how it’s co-operating with UK counterterrorism efforts are: A) “in cases where we have information”; and B) “they’ve gone through the lawful process”.
Whereas, in the earlier instance with the FBI, Apple had argued the agency was requesting extraordinary assistance by demanding it deliberately weaken iOS security — and that such a step posed a threat to the security of all iOS users.
That said, there’s some grey area here too being as the UK legislated at the back end of last year for a new investigatory powers framework that has been widely interpreted as an attack on encryption, by giving authorities the legal authority to demand the removal of electronic protection and be given data in a readable form.
Indeed, in the wake of the latest attack in London the UK Home Secretary said on Sunday that the government wants tech firms to work with it to limit their use of end-to-end encryption.
And while there may be pressure in the US from some quarters for a decrypt law, no such law exists currently.
Asked by Bloomberg whether Apple is continually working to make encryption “even stronger”, Cook made his response into a warning about the wider societal threats posed by cyber attacks to “your safety, your security”. Apple, for example, uses e2e encryption for its iMessage messaging app on iOS.
“It’s not privacy vs security, it’s privacy and security vs security,” he said. “And so we’re always working to try to stay one step ahead of these hackers that, frankly speaking, have gone from the guy in the basement that’s a kind of hobbyist to a sophisticated enterprise — and it takes all that we can do to do it.
“We don’t think our users should have to think through all this stuff. It’s not practical for people. And so we try to stand up for users and stay one step ahead of these guys.”
Another area the UK government has been applying pressure to in the wake of the terror attacks is the spread of extremist content via online platforms. And social media firms have repeatedly found themselves in the firing line for not doing enough to promptly remove terrorist propaganda from their platforms.
On this Cook noted that Apple already does “curate” the App Store — adding: “We don’t want hate speech on there. We don’t want these kind of recruiting things on there. We’ve tried to be very careful from the beginning about not having that stuff on there.”

 BERND THISSEN/AFP/Getty Images
Delivery Hero’s much-anticipated IPO is on. Today the European food delivery company officially announced that it plans to raise as much as €450 million ($506 million) from a public listing on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in “the coming months”.
It’s been a busy past year or so for Delivery Hero, and when you look back on its recent happenings and developments, all signs point to preparations for this initial public offering.
Last year, the company got out of China — a tricky market for any international tech firm — and it reached an agreement to offload its UK business to rival Just Eat. (That deal is under review by the UK’s Competition and Markets Authority.) It also undertook a massive global expansion by snapping up Rocket Internet’s FoodPanda business to give it a presence in 20 new countries across Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Asia, and fortify its position in many others. On the financing side, prolific investment firm Naspers ploughed €387 million ($421.3 million) into the business last month — the final push before this IPO announcement — adding to the $110 million round that the firm closed nearly one year ago to this day.
Six-year-old Delivery Hero said today that it services cover over 40 countries worldwide, with more than 6,000 full-time staff employed.
Financial details disclosed today include:

Total order count for 2016: 197 million, up 52 percent year-on-year
GMV for 2016: €2.618 billion ($2.95 billion), up 51 percent year-on-year
Revenue for 2016: €347 million ($390 million), up 71 percent year-on-year
Revenue for Q1 2017: €121 million ($136 million), up 68 percent year-on-year

Delivery Hero was most recently valued at over $3.1 billion, following the Naspers deal, but its IPO price isn’t certain yet since it plans to offer a mix of newly issued shares and an undefined number of shares currently held by investors.
Of its shareholders, Rocket Internet is currently sitting on 35 percent of the company while Naspers owns a 10 percent stake.
“Going public and listing our shares on the stock market will further enable us to develop the company and provide us with additional capital to expand our leadership positions in the online food ordering and delivery market,” Delivery Hero CEO Niklas Östberg said in a statement.
The original version of this article was updated to reflect that the sale of Delivery Hero’s UK business Hungryhouse to Just Eat is under review.

 Delivery Hero (Facebook) (IMAGE HAS BEEN MODIFIED)
Advertisement		


Tileyard Studios is a nondescript and fairly hidden studio complex in London’s Kings Cross area. A microcosm of the creative industries the U.K. capital city is partly known for, it houses over one hundred companies spanning film and television, music, fashion, and “creative tech”. During the last 18 months, it has also been the home to LocalGlobe, the seed-stage venture capital firm founded by father and son duo Robin and Saul Klein, and one of the most active in the country. 
Since May 2015 alone, LocalGlobe has backed 45 startups, seeing £27 million invested in 38 companies in the U.K., with the majority in London. They cover multiple sectors including the creative industries, education, energy, fashion, finance, food, health, insurance, property, travel and transport. If there is an industry being impacted by tech, LocalGlobe has probably already left fingerprints on it.
At the invitation of Saul Klein, I’m here to interview him, his father and four other members of the now eight-person LocalGlobe team, none of whom I have met previously despite being one of the journalists who has covered the firm’s investments the most in recent years. Based on my own sources, I planned to break news of a new £75 million fund LocalGlobe closed late last year, but Klein had other ideas.
“That’s not a story that interests us,” he told me unambiguously when I called him for comment last month. He proposed instead that I visit LocalGlobe to meet with the team and find out what the VC firm is all about for myself. You could say that I blinked first.
The destination for our meeting is actually a few units further down from the LocalGlobe offices, which are up a flight of stairs and not wheelchair accessible to this journalist. The room is modestly furnished with a three-seater sofa, a coffee table, a few surrounding chairs, and two round desks. The musician in me is slightly distracted by (and drawn to) the upright piano in the corner, whilst the only sign of nearby startup life is a rather lonely looking foosball table in the centre of the room.
In addition to the two Kleins, also present are LocalGlobe Partners Suzanne Ashman Blair, who has a background in impact investing; Tara Reeves, who was previously Head of Product at Wonga and co-founded peer-to-peer car sharing marketplace Turo; and George Henry, who worked in venture support at Index. We are joined too by Emma Phillips, Operations Director at LocalGlobe who leads the support provided to portfolio companies post-investment.
We’re really trying to build something here that is not about one or two individuals— Saul KleinFaced with the unwieldy prospect of interviewing six people at the same time, and determined to wrest back control of the story, I suggest that doing a piece on how LocalGlobe is all about the team could be quite bland. “We’re really trying to build something here that is not about one or two individuals, it really is about the team,” counters Saul Klein. “It probably will sound bland until people actually — which we’re hoping today is the beginning of — take the time to meet the people and hear why we think it means something. It’s not just words on a page”.
“What we wanted to do was build something to last. This is the vision that Saul and I have,” says Robin Klein. “When we left Index, it was, ‘let’s build something that isn’t just about making some investments and hopefully helping some great companies emerge, but let’s build something that is going to last and is enduring beyond me, beyond Saul,’ and so on. An institution, if you like, in its own right, in our peculiar way”.
Partner George Henry frames it as “going beyond the Klein brand”. The French-speaking Belgian worked closely with both Kleins at Index Ventures and says it felt like a very natural move to follow them to LocalGlobe. “I think I was honest as well that I wasn’t joining the family office, I was joining a new institution,” he says.
As a burgeoning institution, it isn’t immediately clear what makes LocalGlobe unusual or peculiar, although a number of things do stand out. The team is “multigenerational,” notes 69 year-old Robin Klein, with Saul Klein in his forties and the other members of the team in their thirties and younger. The firm has also been extremely active over the last year, making an average of two investments per month, something that is attributed to the quality of the companies LocalGlobe is now seeing.
“The entrepreneurs and their ambition are at a level where we feel very, very comfortable with these companies trying to build very big outcomes, and historically, as you know, because you’ve been covering the space for a very long time, that hasn’t always been the case in the U.K. and Europe,” says Saul Klein..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



But doesn’t that mean LocalGlobe sees a lot more crap too? “Of course!” he says.
The firm’s core proposition to the entrepreneurs it courts is that it offers the capital, time and support needed to get to Series A and build the most ambitious business possible. In return, and in an admittedly mixed metaphor, it defines those it is seeking as “surfers capable of riding society’s most important waves,” described as “amazing founders in huge and important markets,” and “black swans capable of being fund returners”. In other words, entrepreneurs that can build the type of companies able to exit for over $750 million and return the entire LocalGlobe fund.
Partner Suzanne Ashman Blair explains that deal-flow typically falls into four buckets: Cold in-bound (“which we do read and get back to people on”), referrals from founders, the VC firm’s wider network, and other VC funds LocalGlobe has co-invested with. “All of those leads go into our Trello,” she says.
“This is also the big difference from five years ago: the quality of the local investment community at all levels,” adds Saul Klein, noting that a third of LocalGlobe’s referrals come from some of the top accelerators including two — Entrepreneur First and early-stage investor Seedcamp — it has directly invested in, along with Telefonica’s Wayra, Cylon, PiLabs, and Techstars Barclays. Angel investors Alex Chesterman, Errol Damelin, Jason Goodman, Taavet Hinrikus, and Brent Hoberman also get special mention.
Given that the VC firm is so active at seed-stage, I posit that LocalGlobe has a disproportionate influence on the startup food chain and therefore the London tech industry’s lack of diversity overall. The “Oxbridge, McKinsey, investment banker” pattern is kind of depressing, I say.
Once we’ve crossed the rubicon then we are all in it and nobody turns around afterwards and says, ‘I told you this was a problem with that company’. That’s totally unacceptable group behaviour— Robin KleinAshman Blair says it’s partly a “funnel issue” and that, although it has become a lot cheaper to do a startup, it still often requires a period of time when a founder is able to support themselves between jobs. One of the things she says that LocalGlobe believes helps it to get over the “central casting mould” — and something that does perhaps make the VC firm more peculiar than not — is the way its investment decision-making is structured. “We don’t need consensus,” she says. “If one person on our side thinks there is something really interesting about a founder, Saul doesn’t have to be convinced”.

“We have a tag [on Trello] that we call ‘hotly debated’ where we track our investment decisions for companies that don’t get a consensus from everybody around the team,” explains Partner Tara Reeves. “The criteria for making that investment is the same for any investment: is there somebody who is prepared to champion this and feels very strongly, and listens to all of the objections and acknowledges them, but is able to say yes, these are the risks but these are the reasons I feel very strongly that this investment should go forward”.
Once a “hotly debated” investment has been made, the whole LocalGlobe team are expected to get behind the startup, regardless of what doubts any individual team member may have had. “Once we’ve crossed the Rubicon then we are all in it and nobody turns around afterwards and says, ‘I told you this was a problem with that company’. That’s totally unacceptable group behaviour,” Robin Klein says. Instead, it is acknowledged and accepted that there is a rate of failure and that everyone in the team will pick startups that succeed and startups that will fail.
“We look for founder market fit,” adds Henry. “The question of whether the founder is from McKinsey or an investment bank is only relevant in the case of it being helpful for the addressable market. I don’t think we expect for founders to have been through a certain journey”.
Post-investment, LocalGlobe’s operational support kicks in, with the overarching aim to help each startup become Series A-ready. Led by Operations Director Emma Phillips, and with a programme typically lasting up to 18 months, it focuses on the standard startup pain-points of team, market fit, unit economics, and operational setup. Plus, of course, fundraising. But there’s a softer side too, much of which takes place over WhatsApp with each portfolio company given a dedicated group on the popular messaging app.
“It’s a very lonely business starting a company, and all of us have been through it ourselves, and I think the empathy that we have with our founders is fundamental to the relationship,” says Robin Klein. “Understanding what they go through and the doubt, the ups and downs, the constant threat of extermination, the existential threat that they face every day”.

Crunchbase






				LocalGlobe			


 
Founded
1999


Overview
LocalGlobe is a UK-based venture capital firm that focuses on seed and impact investments. Seeding ambitious UK founders since 1999 inc Citymapper, Improbable, Lovefilm, Moo, Tweetdeck, Transferwise and Zoopla. Who's next?


Location

London, H9



Categories

Impact Investing, 																													SaaS, 																													Venture Capital 


Website

http://www.localglobe.vc 


Full profile for LocalGlobe 









“The founders that get the most out of our team are the ones that know it is OK to be vulnerable and do let there guard down,” adds Phillips.
With less than a week to go before a General Election in the U.K., which will see voters choose the next government and who becomes Prime Minister, I observe that the tech industry has been relatively silent this time around. That’s in stark contrast to the run up to the 2015 election when a number of prominent figures in the U.K. startup community signed a public letter calling for the re-election of a Conservative-led government. Neither Klein was a signatory.
“From a political perspective, I don’t think it does the startups we work with any particular good for us to have an overt political opinion or bias,” says Saul Klein. “It’s helpful for the startups we work with that we have access to policy makers regardless of who is in office, whether it’s Labour, a coalition or the Conservatives. Through the 20 years I’ve been doing this, all three have been in office, and in general I sort of feel that regardless of party, tech policy has always been central. All three parties understand that tech is a very positive driver of the economy and socially, so, you know, if I’m asked, regardless of my own political opinions to sort of publicly endorse a party, it’s just not something I’m going to do”.
We definitely had a utopian golden era, but what we get post-Brexit will still be I think substantially better than pretty much any other place— Saul Klein“I personally don’t think any institution should align itself with a political party because you are accepting all of the policies of that party, some of which you may violently disagree with,” cautions Robin Klein. He says it is better to “be clear about the things you are in favour of,” noting that the VC firm didn’t duck the issue of Brexit and was very vocal that the biggest threat with exiting the European Union is the question of talent and freedom of movement.
“I lived through an era in this country where we had the ‘brain drain’, they called it, because the U.S. was sucking up all our great scientists and so on because they were just so well funded, and it’s just incredible for the opposite to have taken place and all these people were coming in. The ability to place an ad and for somebody to apply and join and they come over the next day and they start working for you, I mean that’s gone. And that to me is, I dunno, a tragedy is too strong a word, but I think it’s damaging to our industry”.
“We definitely had a utopian golden era, but what we get post-Brexit will still be I think substantially better than pretty much any other place you can go and work, unless you wanna go and work in Berlin and Paris,” counters Saul Klein. “Personally I think London and the U.K. are so far ahead of other European tech hubs that however progressive the policies of Macron or Merkel may or may not be, in relation to tech they have a long way to go, and the U.K. is absolutely not going to stand still”.
It would seem that LocalGlobe isn’t standing still either. Not only does the firm have £75 million in fresh capital to deploy, it is currently adding to the investment team, with openings for an additional Partner and Associate, along with a number of other positions.
I also learn that 15 per cent of LocalGlobe’s funding is earmarked for “strategic investments” outside of the U.K. Historically, this has included the U.S, Israel, Berlin, and Paris, and Saul Klein says the firm is also starting to eye up opportunities in Africa, where it has already made three investments, as smartphone penetration increases and the continent makes claim to some of the fastest growing economies in the world.
He and his father were both born in South Africa and Klein makes the point that “London is often a great starting off point for entrepreneurs who want to operate in Africa,” citing local knowledge and the city’s historical ties. He also believes that if and when African tech companies go public they’ll choose to list in London over New York. “It’s a small piece of what we do but we’re definitely starting to see more interesting deal flow,” he says.
My allotted two hours with the LocalGlobe team is nearly up, and — after noting that it is fairly unusual to spend this amount of time with almost the entire personnel of a VC firm — I thank Saul Klein for the opportunity and begin to wrap up the interview. “Don’t you want to talk about the fund? Because I know that was meant to be the news,” he teases with a wry smile. “Of course”’ I reply matter-of-factly, before reminding him that it was the one part of the story I already had: “I mean, what’s there to say? It’s a new fund…”

Apple, ever the late adopter, has added QR reading to its camera in what is the latest example of the U.S. company seemingly following a trend with blind optimism that it’ll work out for the best.
QR codes have never been an established thing in the U.S., the country where Apple’s influence and marketshare is highest worldwide, but in Asia — particularly in China — it is a well-established means to enabling payments, website discovery and more. Companies use QR codes on subway advertising in China to drive app downloads or website visits, for example. The humble QR code also enables point-of-sale payment via Alibaba’s hugely popular Alipay mobile payment app or the payment facility within Tencent’s blockbuster WeChat app, two services with over 500 million users.
So why is Apple suddenly keen to read QR codes?
The optimistic response is that the company is ‘keeping up with The Latest Tech Trends to tap into New Opportunities for users and developers’.
But the truth is that this introduction is likely to have little to no impact in any part of the world.
WeChat and Alipay users in China will continue to use the respective apps to scan QR codes for payments, adding friends or downloading WeChat ‘mini programs.’ It’s the same story in India, Japan and other countries were QR code usage is notable, but not on the same level as China, since they are a means to an end for established services — whether that is messaging app Line, mobile payment service Paytm, etc.
The best case argument is that Apple’s support for QR codes will trigger a new marketing platform for brands and companies, or enable new interaction points for developers. But, in countries were QR code scanning isn’t commonplace, marketers and developers will need to explain this new trend in order to take advantage of it.
It seems more advantageous to simply reach people through channels they are familiar with and accustomed to using. NFC is already the go-to for payments, and few people actually use the QR code scanning options that already exists in apps like Messenger, Snapchat and beyond. It could be a neat way for some people to find URLs, per the tweet below, and Apple might build in new features over time, but for now the scope seems limited.


Un QR Code est automatiquement reconnu par l’application Appareil photo dans iOS 11 : pic.twitter.com/sFqQ5Gqf9Y
— Nicolas Lellouche (@LelloucheNico) June 5, 2017



The ‘people don’t know what they want until you give it them’ argument is the very same one that was made for iMessage apps — another feature inspired by mobile internet trends in Asia — when that format launched last year.
That optimism proved to be misplaced. iMessages apps didn’t take off as Apple had hoped, to the point that the U.S. company was forced into revamping them in a move announced yesterday that makes iMessage apps harder to ignore inside the messaging app.
One thing that is notable about QR codes and iMessage apps is that even Apple — which is hardly known for making bold software bets — is taking cues on the future of mobile from Asia. That marks a change in attitude from a few years ago, when tech firms largely ignored the telling trends emerging in the East. But it’s a big stretch to assume that Apple bundling QR code reading into iOS is game-changer, when all the evidence suggests that it isn’t.
Our Chinese partner Technode has details on other additions to iOS that might have more potential to stick in China.
In a bid to heal its fractured company culture, Uber has hired Harvard Business School professor Frances Frei as its new SVP of leadership and strategy. According to the company’s announcement, Frei will report to CEO Travis Kalanick, “work as a partner” with chief human resources officer Liane Hornsey, and serve as an executive coach for Uber’s leadership team.
“As one of the world’s most respected authorities on organizational transformation…she is uniquely qualified for the role—and we know we all have a lot to learn from her,” said an Uber blog post about the appointment, which comes just before it is expected to release the results of an independent investigation into sexual harassment at the company.
The hiring of Frei is noteworthy because it signals a desire by Uber to change some of the aspects of its workplace and leadership culture—including a “Hobbesian environment” that rewarded cutthroat competition, sexual harassment that often went unchecked by HR (a blog post by former engineer Susan Fowler detailing repeated incidents finally triggered an investigation), and treating drivers more like software than human beings.
Over the past few months, the fallout from these problems has started to snowball, and Uber has been hit with multiple lawsuits, the resignation of key executives, and boycotts.
According to Frei’s HBS faculty bio, her research “examines how leaders create the context for organizations and individuals to thrive” and one of her classes “investigates how organizations build business models that reliably delight customers.”
Her other work includes a book titled “Uncommon Service: How to Win by Putting Customers at the Core of Your Business,” case studies on companies including eBay, Oracle, and the Cleveland Clinic, and research into women’s leadership and diversity.
A 2015 interview from the Harvard Business Review about rating systems like the five-star scale Uber uses for both drivers and passengers gives insight into the kind of advice Frei might offer the company.
When asked what the next generation of customer rating systems might look like, Frei said, “For both customer and employee ratings, organizations need to guard against process transcending purpose. The purpose of these systems is to understand what’s really going on, so we can improve it. But process transcends purpose when Joe the exterminator says, ‘I don’t get paid unless you give me a 10.’ It was a great idea to solicit what customers thought, and what employees think, but that doesn’t let you have the hook from having to manage.”

 Jaap Arriens/NurPhoto/Getty Images
French startup Clustree just raised a $7.9 million Series A round (€7 million) from Creandum with Idinvest Partners and Alven Capital also participating. Clustree leverages machine learning to help both good employees who feel stuck in their jobs and HR departments who might not think to check their own companies for the perfect candidate.
In order to do this, Clustree has structured more than 250 million career paths from various sources. Big French companies can then tap into this data to get recommendations about who they should hire next for this job opening. The service combines this data set with internal data as well as continuous feedback from HR managers.
Internal candidates are sometimes better for new job positions, which helps when it comes to employee retention. Clustree can also help you with external recruitment.
“Our offer covers the employee lifecycle, from recruitment to succession plan,” founder and CEO Bénédicte de Raphélis Soissan told me “On the recruitment part, Clustree focuses on the natural talent pool of the company: it means that we are analyzing the profiles of their existing employees and the resumes they naturally received. When we deliver recruitment recommendations, our artificial intelligence will analyze that whole unique pool to find interesting candidates.”
Companies like Orange, Crédit Agricole, SNCF, Carrefour and L’Oréal are all using Clustree. And they pay quite a lot of money to access the solution.
“All our customers are French companies but with an international positioning. Our solution is used across 30 different countries,” Bénédicte de Raphélis Soissan said. “It means that we help recruit and manage careers for American, Japanese, Chinese and German people for instance, even if they all work for a leading French company.”
With today’s funding round, the company plans to hire more people across the board. The plan is to get more clients in France and then think about international expansion.
Today’s Stories 

Apple introduces iOS 11
Apple’s new iMacs are now powerful enough to support VR
Apple introduces the new iPad Pro with a 10.5-inch screen and thinner bezels
Apple announces the HomePod

Credits
Written by: Tito Hamze, John MannesHosted by: Tito hamzeFilmed by: Tito HamzeEdited by: Tito Hamze
Notes:

I don’t know what to wear on Crunch Report (It’s a hard decision and I suck at dressing myself). If you are a startup and want to me to wear something mail me an XL T-shirt and I’ll wear it in an episode. I’m not going to mention the company on the shirt in the episode but it will be there. No offensive stuff, it’s totally at my discretion if I wear it. Mail it to me. Thanks <3 Ok, bye.

TechCrunch C/O Tito Hamze
410 Townsend street
Suite 100
San Francisco Ca. 94107
Police body cameras don’t just record shootouts and other crises — they’re on all day every day, giving a view in unprecedented detail into officers’ interactions with the public. If you can handle that volume of data, that is. Researchers at Stanford created a method to do just that, and soon found that officers in Oakland consistently used less respectful language when speaking with black people.
Now, this wasn’t some big, obvious difference. It took the analysis of half a million words spoken by Oakland police officers in thousands of interactions to surface — but that’s the strength of having this amount of data to draw from. Perhaps otherwise this difference in manner would be written off as imagined.
It’s real, all right: when the person being stopped was white, officers were 57 percent more likely to use respectful phrases like apologies and thank-yous. When the person was black, the officers were 61 percent more likely to tell the person to keep their hands on the wheel, or refer to them as “dude” or “bro.” This pattern persisted even when the team controlled for race and severity of infraction.
“On the whole, police interactions with black community members are more fraught than their interactions with white community members,” said Jennifer Eberhardt, co-author of the study, in a Stanford news release. But she also noted that “our findings are not proof of bias or wrongdoing on the part of individual officers. Many factors could drive racial disparities in respectful speech.”
But just because a difference is subtle doesn’t mean it’s unimportant.
“These were well-behaved officers,” said co-author Dan Jurafsky. “But the many small differences in how they spoke with community members added up to pervasive racial disparities.”
In order to sift through the many, many hours of traffic stops used in the study, the team first had ordinary people rate transcribed conversations for politeness, formality, respect, and other measures. Then, phrases correlated with those qualities were identified, and the thousands of transcribed interactions were searched for those phrases.
As you can see, things like assuring safety and apologizing are more likely to occur in stops of white people, while informal names and “asking for agency” (negative because it implies wariness) show more in stops of black people. And as you can also see, it’s far from clear cut — officers use both types of language in both cases, but over time a statistically significant pattern emerges.
The findings do not shed light on the origin of this pattern, though.
“The racial disparities in officer respect are clear and consistent, yet the causes of these disparities are less clear,” reads the study, published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. “It is certainly possible that some of these disparities are prompted by the language and behavior of the community members themselves, particularly as historical tensions in Oakland and preexisting beliefs about the legitimacy of the police may induce fear, anger, or stereotype threat.”
What we have here is a starting point, in other words: a verifiable pattern teased out (but importantly, not cherry picked) from the noisy, voluminous mass of data produced by body cameras. What’s next? Deeper analysis could look at other aspects of speech, such as tone and slang, or take into account other factors of the people and locations involved.
Simpy being aware of a factual, negative trend in the speech of officers of all races, towards the people of one race, is enough to start a conversation. Who has noticed this before? Have they brought it up? Are officers aware they’re doing it? Policing can be data-driven, but ultimately it’s a community service, and in that community is where problems like this must be addressed in order to truly be solved.
“I’m hopeful that, with the development of computational tools like ours, more law enforcement agencies will approach their body camera footage as data for understanding, rather than as evidence for blaming or exonerating,” said Eberhardt.
(Note: This article originally used the term “microaggressions” in the headline, but it was suggested to me that this word doesn’t really accurately capture the nature of this pattern, so I’ve changed it.)
If Snapchat’s growth remains slow, it needs to maximize how much it can charge per ad by demonstrating they inspire purchases and physical store foot traffic. So today, Snap confirmed to TechCrunch that it’s acquired location-based analytics and ad measurement startup Placed for an undisclosed sum.
Placed will help Snap scale its measurement systems like Snap To Store so advertisers can chart how online Snapchat ads translate into offline return on investment. GeekWire broke the news earlier today.
The six-year-old had raised at least $13.4 million, including a $10 million Series B led by Two Sigma Ventures in 2014. It had measured more than $500 million in ad spend for hundreds of partner platforms like PayPal and Pandora. Boosting advertiser confidence in ROI could help Snap grow its revenue, which fell short of expectations in its first earnings call this month and sank its share price more than 20 percent.
How Placed measures ad campaign effectiveness
Snap says Placed will continue to run independently at its Seattle headquarters, plus its NYC and LA offices, with its CEO David Shim reporting to Snap chief strategy officer Imran Khan. Snap also will put in place strict privacy, data-sharing and security rules to guarantee a physical and digital separation between Snapchat and Placed data.
Shim writes, “Placed’s goal continues to be the adoption of a common yardstick that can measure the offline effectiveness of advertising across multiple platforms and publishers.”
To do this, Placed has built an audience of users that it can ask directly about their recent locations and store visits. It combines this with third-party data to be able to determine what percentage of a sample of an ad’s viewers actually were inspired to visit a brick-and-mortar business. It then can extrapolate to estimate the brand lift and return on investment for an ad campaign.
That meshes perfectly with Snapchat’s Snap To Store system. When a user visits a business like McDonald’s and applies their Snapchat-sponsored geofilter to a Story post or private message, Snap To Store measures whether any of their friends that viewed that geofiltered Snap subsequently visited any of that brand’s locations. Placed will give Snap a wider measurement audience and deeper data so it can more accurately assess the impact of these geofilter ads.

Snap is deftly using acquisitions like Placed and Flite to close the advertising gap between its tools and those offered by the duopoly of Google and Facebook. Squeezing out as much average revenue per user will be critical as it’s unlikely to achieve their audience scale, especially as Facebook relentlessly copies its products. If Snapchat can leverage creative and interactive ad units, its tastemaker teen audience and strong ad measurement, it might be able to develop a relatively big business relative to its user base.
Remember when QR codes were the next big thing? In the U.S. you used to be able to find them on billboards, business cards — you name it. They were supposed to change the way we use our devices. Remember CurrentC? But the technology never really caught on stateside, mainly because users had to download a totally separate third-party app to scan them, and the whole system was pretty clunky.
But according to some reports on Twitter, QR codes in the U.S. are about to get a second chance, because the first iOS 11 beta has the ability to read QR codes via the native camera app. That means any iPhone users will be able to open their camera, point it at a QR code, and receive a prompt to follow a URL.
Check out the picture below to see what it looks like in action. Of course, because it’s a beta the feature may be tweaked (or eliminated entirely), but this simple implementation seems pretty Apple-like, and there’s a good chance it won’t get much more complicated than this.


Un QR Code est automatiquement reconnu par l’application Appareil photo dans iOS 11 : pic.twitter.com/sFqQ5Gqf9Y
— Nicolas Lellouche (@LelloucheNico) June 5, 2017



The feature reportedly can be toggled via the camera settings menu, but is turned on by default.
Using QR codes are actually really convenient — they are a great alternative to having to type out a URL or manually input a selection. Just ask any mobile user in Asia where QR codes are used daily to order food, make payments — you name it. This trend is only increasing, and it seems Apple had no choice but to finally embrace the standard and offer native support to users.
Now it will be interesting to see if the U.S. circles back to its short-lived QR obsession. Marketers, if you’re listening, just please don’t start putting them on t-shirts again.
Attribution is not an easy thing to do in the case of cyberattacks, especially if the actors have been careful. But the NSA seemed confident enough regarding certain pre-election hacks that it has directly named Russian intelligence as the perpetrators — an accusation rather at odds with President Putin’s claims that the country “never engaged” in that type of activity.
The information comes courtesy of The Intercept, which obtained a top secret report from the NSA, issued in May and subsequently confirmed as genuine. The 5-page report can be read in its (redacted) entirety here.
Update: NBC News reports that the FBI on Saturday arrested Reality Leigh Winner, a 25-year-old government contractor, on charges of “gathering, transmitting or losing defense information.” She reportedly admitted to printing out the report discussed here and mailing it to The Intercept.
The report describes activity dating to just before the election in which Russian intelligence attempted to get access to “elections-related software and hardware solutions” and then flip that access into a spear-phishing campaign against government targets. Russia’s GRU is specifically named as being behind the attacks, not merely suggested as a candidate.
Russian General Staff Main Intelligence Directorate actors … executed cyber espionage operations against a named U.S. Company in August 2016, evidently to obtain information on elections-related software and hardware solutions, according to information that became available in April 2017. The actors likely used data obtained from that operation to create a new email account and launch a voter registration-themed spear-phishing campaign targeting U.S. local government organizations.
According to the report, the attacks first targeted a private company in August, possibly Florida’s VR Systems, that provides services relating to electronic voting systems. Once inside the company’s server, the attackers began sending spear-phishing emails that would appear to come from the company itself, lending them authenticity. This latter activity occurred only days before the election.
Two more attacks attributed to the Russian government in the report also targeted elections infrastructure.
Just how successful these attacks were is difficult to say, and by now whatever hooks the actors had in government contractors and elections systems have probably been prised out. It is not suggested by the report that the outcome of the election itself was affected.
We knew that bad actors were “poking around” voter registration and election boards, and Russia was always suspected — or at the very least, “patriotic” (as Putin put it) hackers acting in Russian interests.
It’s not the first time the U.S. has officially suggested Russia had its finger in the election pie, but it is the most detailed and uncompromising of those suggestions — and clearly contradicts Putin’s recent and unequivocal statements otherwise.
The U.S. government is put in an awkward position itself; it would be odd to accuse Putin now using information leaked involuntarily from its own secret sources. Yet now that it’s obvious that this evidence exists, it would be equally odd for officials not to act. We’ll know soon how U.S. intelligence and elected officials extricate themselves from between this rock and hard place.


Apparently Apple knows Siri kinda sucks, because it was the last thing mentioned in the unveiling of the new HomePod speaker. That’s why it’s dumpily named as a successor to the iPod, not Apple’s old-but-unwise voice assistant.
The $349 HomePod Wi-Fi speaker has seven beam-forming tweeters, a custom subwoofer, multi-channel echo cancelling and acoustic modeling in an Apple-y little futuristic shell, trumpeted VP Phil Schiller. Only after gabbing on and on about its sound quality and elegance did he throw up a final slide of the limited range of non-music voice assistance HomePod can provide.
Going head-to-head with Google Home’s speech recognition or Amazon Echo’s voice command developer ecosystem could have been disastrous. It’s frustrating yet permissible when Siri stumbles on your phone where you can easily default to your thumbs. But on a screenless speaker like HomePod, if Siri sucks, the whole gadget does too.
So rather than let you try and fail to ask HomePod anything, Apple focused on making it somewhat competent at a few categories of questions. At least it can transcribe and send messages, do basic translation, read you news and control your IoT devices. And it’s got music covered, letting you request similar songs, get production details and discover music by genre or date.

Apple says it will unlock more HomePod Siri functionality eventually, making use of the six internal microphones. And to court the privacy buffs, it only listens and sends anonymized, encrypted data back to Apple after you’ve said “Hey Siri” rather than constantly eavesdropping.
But really, this is Apple’s admission that it needed to kick the voice command can down the road a bit and strengthen Siri — but it goes gunning for Google and Amazon. In the short-term, it can focus on defeating long-time partner Sonos for multi-room audio, which iOS will soon support natively through HomeKit and AirPlay 2.

HomePod might be a bit underwhelming, and the unseemly name is equal parts camping gear, alien hive and dishwashing detergent. But Apple is the master of the slow invasion. The iPod also started as just music, allowing Apple into your pocket, until the tech improved so it could display video before blossoming into the iPhone. That device was just a multi-touch feature phone with a few Apple utilities until it became everything with the App Store launch.
With sleek branding, favored integrations with Apple’s other products and the company’s retail footprint, HomePod could mature into a true contender if Siri can get smarter.

But for now, Apple is stuck hawking sound quality where many mainstream consumers can’t tell the difference. And Apple’s prestigious position as the luxury lifestyle device maker doesn’t give it as much advantage in selling gadgets that sit on a shelf. You don’t necessarily need the smallest or prettiest smart speaker because fewer people see and judge your status by it like they do with your phone.
Apple will have to compete with other tech giants over software smarts you can’t see, where it’s lagged recently. Like a brutish house guest that’s always breaking or messing up your stuff, Siri might be too stupid to let inside just yet.





About half the counties in Texas don’t have the number of public clinics required to meet the contraceptive needs of the population. So Nurx, an at-home birth control delivery app, decided to give women in the state the option to get birth control whenever they want and without ever needing to step into a clinic or even physically see a doctor.
Starting today, those in the Lone Star State will be able to tap the Nurx app and get contraceptives delivered straight to their door.
While Texas isn’t the only state with a giant “contraceptive desert,” or an area without at least 1 clinic to every 1,000 women in need of publicly funded contraception, it is certainly the biggest area of land in the United States not meeting these needs.
And with Trumpcare looming, and Trump’s recent “Religious Freedom” order, which allows businesses to deny birth control coverage based on religious reasons, many women could lose access to their publicly funded birth control pills and even more publicly funded clinics could go under, leaving a large and vulnerable population wide open to other, possibly dangerous methods of preventing birth.

While there are plenty of birth control delivery services out on the market, such as Maven, The Pill Club, Lemonaid and BirthControlBuzz, I had a hard time finding any that delivered in Texas (get at me if you do). That’s not to say they won’t at some point, as each of them could easily open up shop in this area, but it does seem Nurx, which is not a free birth control delivery service, but does provide the pills at a reasonable cost, may have discovered a goldmine of people in need, for the time being.
For instance, a little more than half of all pregnancies in Texas were unplanned in 2015, costing taxpayers $2.9 billion that year. However, according to a Guttmacher Institute report, the total gross public savings from preventing unintended pregnancies would have been $2.14 billion if women and couples could be empowered to prevent them. Couple that with the teen birth rate in Texas, which sharply declined by 56 percent over the last two decades, thanks in large part to contraceptives, according to the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy.
Couple that with an additional estimate of more than 19 million women living in these “contraceptive deserts” nationwide and it’s easy to see adding these types of services could save money at the state level by removing middlemen and increasing access, as well as provide a lucrative area for Nurx and other birth control delivery apps to tap.

 Ken Lund/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
Apple packed a lot of announcements into its WWDC keynote today, even with the long running time, so it’s understandable that the new Magic Keyboard with Numeric Keypad didn’t get any stage time. Understandable, but unforgivable, because this is truly the company’s greatest creation.
Okay maybe not the greatest, but it is pretty great — it’s the same Magic Keyboard you know and love, with Lightning charging and Apple’s redesigned scissor key mechanisms, but it’s also got a dedicated numeric pad, additional function keys, the home and page up/page down buttons and four full-size navigation arrow keys given the space they deserve.
Those arrow keys might be the most impressive part — they replace the half-size up and down arrows you’ll find on the Magic Keyboard of old, which means you can much more easily and comfortably navigate without looking down, when paging through files, scrolling webpages, driving through lines of code and more.
Apple says it’ll get around a month between charges, and of course it has the standard Mac media keys, plus it ships with another USB to Lightning cable in the box for your collection. It’s a little insane to think about how long it took for Apple to create one of these, but I’m very glad it’s finally here — and shipping right away, too. NumPad now!
To kick off WWDC this year, Apple gave us a glimpse of what the world would be like without apps.
In an opening video for the conference, a new employee at Apple haphazardly unplugs the App Store servers and sends the entire world into full-scale chaos.
Instagram gone, a young woman stands on the street shouting “Selfies?!,” offering physical portraits of herself to folks running past. A group of travelers attempts to break into a home as the owners barricade the door — “This isn’t an Airbnb!”
Without Waze and Google Maps, drivers seem to lose the ability to drive entirely, or read maps, crashing into each other, though everyone seems to escape these crashes safely.
In the wake of the Appocalypse, as the media calls it, folks are taking to an above-ground IRL black market App Store, with plastic surgeons offering Face Swaps, a Candy Crush table where users simply smash candy with a hammer and a Tinder hut with dudes showing off their stuff.
After the video, Tim Cook explained that this disastrous scenario could never really happen, framing how app-crazy we’ve all become as a way to lead into the company’s yearly developer conference.
But some people on Twitter brought up how this might be a little insensitive, given the timing:


Extremely lame opening video for #WWDC2017 & offensive, given recent events that are really catostrophic and have affected people's lives.
— frozen4life (@frozen4life) June 5, 2017



And it is a bit technically and politically tone-deaf, as on the one hand, Apple is misrepresenting technical infrastructure while depicting car crashes and chaos as a joke. This, in a world where cyberattacks and their potential aftermath are an increasingly real threat, not to mention actual terrorist attacks.
The ad also seems to have hints of Pepsi’s Kendall Jenner ad.


Remember when the App Store invented world peace? #WWDC2017
— Oscar Raymundo (@OscarRaymundo) June 5, 2017



That said, others seemed to react positively to the opening video.


Love the opening video. So true, what would we do without our apps? #wwdc2017
— Eric Hanson (@TheEricHanson) June 5, 2017





I legit laughed at the "Selfies" part #WWDC2017
— Nathan (@Jus2Run) June 5, 2017



Given the “riskiness” of this apocalypse theme, Apple clearly tried to approach this from the safest POV. For example, everyone in the car crashes seem to escape any real danger, and, interestingly, the only people in the Tinder booths are men. (Not to say that objectifying men is any more acceptable than objectifying women, but the basic premise of Tinder isn’t necessarily Apple’s fault.)
Plus, there is some core of truth in the video. We are shockingly dependent on our apps, and exaggeration is one of the most basic comedic devices in the book.
You can watch the Appocalypse video below:
The writing is on the wall. The iPad mini 4 is probably going to be the last iPad mini ever. Apple just announced iPad updates during its WWDC keynote. Both the 9.7-inch and 12.9-inch iPad Pro models are receiving major updates. In the meantime, the iPad mini feels like the neglected device in the iPad lineup, and it’s now probably on life support.
If you want a cheaper iPad, you can buy a 9.7-inch iPad for $320. It’s cheaper than the $399 iPad mini 4. And if you want a big, powerful iPad, there’s always the iPad Pro.
It’s clear that both the entry-level iPad and the iPhone 7 Plus (and phablets in general) have become more popular than the iPad mini. So Apple is just going to keep the iPad mini for now and discontinue it at some point.
The iPad mini was the hot new thing when it debuted in 2012. Back then, the full-size iPad was a heavy monster, and everybody was excited about the Nexus 7 and the Kindle Fire tablet. Phones had a tiny 3.5-inch display.
People wanted something light so that they could carry it around. The iPad mini was the perfect device to browse the web, read emails and more. It was just a bit small to watch movies. I loved my iPad mini. But now that iPads have become lighter and phones bigger, the iPad mini isn’t as useful. And the tablet market in general isn’t growing anymore.
So Apple is trying to make the iPad Pro more powerful for those who really want to do stuff with their tablet. And the iPad mini isn’t getting any of the new bells and whistles.
The MacBook Air just won’t die. While Apple introduced a thinner, lighter MacBook Pro last year, people still want a new MacBook Air. The MacBook Pro is roughly as heavy as the 13-inch MacBook Air, but it’s still more expensive. That’s why customers still love the MacBook Air.
Instead of killing the MacBook Air altogether, Apple is keeping it around as it still sells fine. Even better, the laptop is receiving a better CPU. There’s a single line about the MacBook Air in Apple’s press release: “Apple today also updated the 13-inch MacBook Air with a 1.8 GHz processor.”
Aaaaand… that’s it. Don’t expect a retina display, don’t expect more storage or RAM. The MacBook Air is clearly on life support. It doesn’t even get Intel’s Kaby Lake processors.
If that’s not enough for you, Apple cut the price on the entry-level 13-inch MacBook Pro without the Touch Bar. It now costs $1,299 instead of $1,499, making it a little bit more tempting to skip the MacBook Air altogether.
Before:

After:
Advertisement		



Apple’s long-rumored Amazon Echo competitor is real. It’s called the HomePod (yes, I know). “We want to reinvent home music,” Apple CEO Tim Cook said at the company’s WWDC keynote. The Apple Speaker is focused on music first, not Siri.
Apple’s SVP of Global Marketing Phil Schiller said Sonos aren’t smart speakers and Amazon Echos aren’t good speakers. So Apple wants to combine the best of both worlds. It’s a smart marketing strategy. HomePod is shipping later this year — it’s not quite ready for prime time.
The device is a pill-shaped circular speaker. It has a seven beam-forming tweeter array. It has a custom-made woofer and an Apple A8 chip. It has multi-channel echo cancellation, real-time acoustic modeling and more..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



The HomePod can scan the space around it to optimize audio accordingly. Schiller spent a lot of time talking about how good it sounds. It’s hard to know for sure when you’re listening to a song coming out of giant speakers in a conference hall.



Of course, the speaker works well with Apple Music. You can talk to the speaker to play anything in your Apple Music library and more. You can say “play more songs like that,” or “I like this song.”

You also can ask other Siri queries, such as news headlines, the weather, sports scores and more. And if you have HomeKit-enabled devices, you can control your lights, garage door, air conditioning and more using this speaker.
Interestingly, Apple also announced AirPlay 2 earlier today, which lets you pair multiple speakers and play music in multiple rooms. I’m sure many customers will buy multiple speakers for their home.
It’s going to cost $349. It comes in white and space grey. It starts shipping in the U.S., the U.K. and Australia. Other countries will get HomePods next year.
And that’s about it for now. I’m sure we’ll learn more about the device in the coming months, but it seems like Apple is downplaying this announcement. The company knows it’s late to this market. So it has to prove that it can make a good speaker before calling it the best speaker ever.


The company is also launching a new app called Files, which brings desktop-style file management to iPad. The app brings together all your files and supports nested folders, tags, search, etc. Files also supports iCloud and third-party storage providers like Dropbox and Google Drive.

Launching Files is a way to appease power users while not making iPad too complicated for the average user, as building a full file system into iOS would have been too confusing for users who crave the simplicity iPad provides. Of course, it is also a not-so-subtle acknowledgment that as great as the simplicity of mobile is, sometimes we just need desktop-level features like a file system and windows.
iOS 11 will be available to developers today, and everyone else as a free upgrade in the fall.
Apple’s App Store is getting one of the biggest upgrades since its launch nine years ago, the company announced today at its Worldwide Developer Conference. The upgraded storefront will little resemble its earlier counterpart thanks to a new user interface and redesign whose aim is to help users better discover new applications and learn about how they’re used, while offering developers a better way to feature their content and tell their stories.
The change has been a long time coming for the App Store, which has been much maligned by developers who claim the existing interface makes it too hard for them to reach new users.
The updated storefront could change that in a number of ways.

The new store is divided into five key areas. “Search” and “Updates” tabs are still present, but the other three bottom navigation buttons will take you to entirely new experiences.
The App Store’s new homepage, so to speak, is a tab called “Today,” which is meant to help users find out what’s happening right now. The hope is that the continually updated content will give the store a more real-time feel that deserves repeated daily launches — more like visiting your favorite news site for recent updates, for example.
Though Apple said that today’s App Store has 500 million weekly visitors, and it often features fresh content, it still “feels” more like a static storefront.
Users have downloaded more than 180 billion apps to date, noted App Store head Phil Schiller, and developers have made $70 billion from those apps to date, he added.
That said, Apple may not have been living up to one of its goals with the store — to make it a “great opportunity for all developers.”
“We continue to work really hard at that,” Schiller said.
The Today tab, which is a new way to discover apps, is Apple’s big first step toward making the App Store feel more alive.
Apple says the content in the Today section will now be updated every day, and will feature new releases in a more in-depth fashion. Instead of just rounding up a list of apps editors like, the new App Store will use large, colorful imagery, video content and “stories” to help introduce new and updated apps and games to end users.
“If you remember back to the first time you started downloading apps…and it was so much fun to go in every single day and discover new apps that were appearing? That’s an amazing feeling…and we’re bringing that back again,” explained Schiller.

Each day, there will be an App of the Day and Game of the Day listed on this page, to encourage repeat visits to the store.
The Today tab also will feature notable new releases.
For example, Apple showed off how the “world premiere” of the sequel to the popular Monument Valley game would appear on the new store. The game gets a featured spot at the top of the vertically scrollable Today tab, and you could tap on the image to go to a page that takes you “inside” the new game, allowing you to learn more.
This includes reading about the game in a more editorial format — you’ll even see things like key quotes broken out as larger text to make them pop. You also can scroll through more photos and multiple videos in a new carousel that you move through horizontally, so you can really get a sense of game play.

A new social sharing button will aid those developers who snag this sort of featured listing on the App Store. With a tap, users can share the app’s “story” with their friends from this same page.

The Today tab also will feature Apple’s editorial content, like those curated collections available in the current App Store. These will update regularly, and will be focused on a theme or a goal. For example, the collection mentioned in the demo was a round-up of meditation apps.
But Today won’t only feature an improved format for Apple’s own “listicles,” there also will be expanded editorial content like “How To” guides on using apps. These new articles will teach you tips and tricks for apps you might be considering, or could serve as ways to learn more about those you already have installed on your devices.
In the latter case, that could prompt users to re-launch apps they may have abandoned, as they may learn the app can do something they didn’t know about before.
The photo app VSCO was demonstrated here, with a list of tips that included one on how to use VSCO for GIFs.
These editorial stories, tips and tricks and lists also will be surfaced in the App Store’s upgraded search, the company says.

The new App Store  also will now break apart Apps and Games, giving them each their own tab accessible by the navigation buttons at the bottom of the screen.
There are number of advantages to doing this. For starters, it lets Apple separate out Games and Apps’ Top Charts, giving more apps and games exposure — especially those that would have otherwise been more lowly ranked due to having to compete with those apps that forever sit at the top of the charts — like Facebook or Pokémon GO, for instance.

But it also gives both app and game developers new ways to market their work to consumers. The Games page, for example, will now feature in-app purchases listed alongside apps, allowing developers to highlight their upgrades, such as their newly released characters or levels.
The system (or lack thereof) for app upgrades is something many developers have had issues with. Some have felt when they put so much work into expanding their app or game, they should be able to release that upgrade with a big price tag. Today, many just launch a “version 2” of their app instead, and then try to resell it anew.  Apple hasn’t gone so far as to formalize upgrades, but it has made selling app and game add-ons something that can be marketed separately from the apps and games themselves. That may help quell some developers’ concerns with the upgrade process.
The new App Store may feel a bit more personalized because of this separation of Apps and Games, too. If users are largely interested only in finding new games, they can turn to the Games tab to see what editors are playing this week, scroll down the page to watch game videos, browse by category and more — all within easy reach, and without having to read about new (non-game) apps.

The games’ individual app pages have been improved, too. There are now more videos (triple the number, says Apple), big badges that indicate if they earned an accolade like “Editor’s Choice,” and they better highlight user ratings, reviews and developers’ responses to users.
If the game is on the Top Charts, this too will be shown right on its app page so you get a sense of its current popularity.
Similarly, the new Apps section features the same design, including its own Top Charts, but one is just focused on the non-game apps.
There are a slew of under-the-hood features arriving in the new store, too, but Apple just teased these briefly on a single slide. But a quick peek at that slide shows the features Apple thought to highlight, like support for more TestFlight users, auto-renewal with Apple Pay, receipt enhancements, new design resources and more.

One of the more critical items — and one of the only from this section to get a shout-out — is the introduction of phased releases. Already available on Google Play, this will allow developers to more slowly roll out new apps and updates to new users by making them available to smaller groups initially in order to help keep the rollout stabilized and prevent overloading their servers.
The App Store has had quite an overhaul, even before today, under Schiller’s lead. He also introduced App Store search ads, support for subscription-based apps where the split with Apple drops from 70/30 to 85/15 in year two and faster app review times.
Apps are reviewed in less than 24 hours now, Schiller noted onstage. And many are approved in just one to two hours, he said.
The upgraded App Store arrives with the launch of iOS 11, expected later this fall for the general public. It’s available to iOS developers today.


Apple sung the praises of Pokemon Go as it talked about changes being made to the company’s App Store at today’s WWDC event, but it also showed off a new set of APIs that will allow developers to bring even more augmented reality apps to iOS devices.

This has really been the year of augmented reality for some of the top tech companies. Snap may have led the way with smart filters, but it is no longer the only entrant. Facebook went all-in with its AR Camera platform at F8, while Google continued to show additions to Tango as well as its new AR app Google Lens.
Today, Apple didn’t show off a dedicated app but it did show off ARKit, a platform which the company boasted was the “largest AR platform in the world.”

In a pretty amazing demo, Apple highlighted the marker-less spatial awareness that ARKit has in a tabletop gaming title featuring an airship attack on an enemy outpost.
ARKit has support for Unity, Unreal Engine and Scenekit and will be coming to iPad and iPhone.
Apple had one surprise on stage that you can check out immediately – Monument Valley 2, the sequel to the amazing, beautiful isometric puzzle game from developer ustwo launched on stage, and can be purchased now.
The game is $4.99 on the U.S. App Store, and is optimized for both iPhones and iPads. The plot of the game revolves around game protagonist Ro introducing her daughter to the architectural puzzle world she occupies. The game doesn’t require you to have played the previous instalment, however; ustwo says you can jump right into the new version without missing anything critical.
If you’ve never played any Monument Valley before, you’re in for a treat; these games are stunning both visually, and in terms of sound design. You should definitely go ahead and plug in your headphones to enjoy it, though – it’s immersive and really helps with the overall experience.




You really can’t go wrong picking this up, so go ahead and grab it at the link above. And then, if you haven’t played the original, go back and get that, too. It’s a lot cheaper than the new iPad Pros.
Apple just introduced the new iPad Pro.
The new iPad Pro has a 10.5-inch screen, while maintaining the nearly same size as its 9.7-inch predecessors. Obviously, that means Apple has shrunk down the bezels on this bad boy considerably.
That’s a 20 percent larger screen with much thinner bezels, and the tablet weighs in at just one pound.
As you may remember, Apple issued a random update to the iPad in March, which essentially upped the processing power and lowered the price.

The larger screen means Apple is adding a full size on-screen keyboard, as well as an external keyboard.
Alongside the update to the 9.7-inch (now 10.5-inch) iPad Pro, the 13-inch model will get true tone displays with 600 nits brightness, meaning they’ll be able to handle HDR video. Plus, Apple is increasing refresh rate to 120hz, which will essentially double the animation frames and maker scrolling extra smooth.
That said, Apple will preserve battery life by automatically adjusting refresh rate based on what you’re looking at. For example, if you’re watching a high frame-rate movie, you’ll likely get the full 120hz refresh rate. If you’re looking at still images, it’ll drop down to a much lower refresh rate.
This offers even better latency for the Apple Pencil, dropping it down to an astounding 20ms.




The new iPad Pro will ship with a new six-core A10x CPU, which has 30 percent faster processing power than the A9x. Plus, Apple is doubling the iPad Pro base model storage to 64GB.
Battery life will still be around 10 hours, and keep the same 12 megapixel rear camera and 7 megapixel rear camera as the last generation.

The new 10.5-inch iPad Pro starts at $649, with the big 12.9-inch model starting at $799, and both models will start shipping next week.
In terms of software, the iPad Pro will now have a doc, with updated app-switching that shows way more apps at once. Oh, and the iPad now supports drag and drop.
Apple gave its MacBook and MacBook Pro lineup a small boost today at WWDC — the machines are getting new Kaby Lake processors and faster solid-state drives across the board. Apple’s 15-inch Pro is getting faster standard graphics, and an upgraded entry-level 13-inch Pro will retail for $1,299, sans Touch Bar, of course. You’ll be able to order all of the upgraded laptops online starting today.
I can’t say we were overly surprised that Apple made few changes to its laptop lineup. It was possible that the company could have added an extra USB-C to the MacBooks to make things easier for customers looking to charge their phones while charging their computers, without a dongle — but even that would have been a fairly minor upgrade.
Last year Apple gifted its new product line dual-core Intel M processors, giving customers access to 1.3GHZ with 1866 MHz memory. The company also bumped up graphics specs with an Intel HD Graphics 515, gave the entire line 8GB of RAM and rolled out a new rose gold model. This, like today, made for a fairly routine update — more speed, longer battery life, we know the drill.

I’m probably in the minority of MacBook owners who wasn’t completely put off by its lack of ports. An extra USB-C port would certainly be handy, and I’t be even more handy to see a resolve to the USB-C versus Lightning situation, but I can’t say I’d be excited to give up the extra internal real estate for it.
My wish list for the MacBook is surprisingly short. The butterfly keyboard on the MacBook still gives me issues — while covering events, I’ve had folks complain about keyboard noise, and keys do jam from time to time with frequent use. And if RAM was infinitely abundant and cheap it might be cool to see more of that, as well, but these are fairly minor issues with a machine that was designed fresh from the ground up just a few years ago.
Any extra parlor tricks like a touch bar wouldn’t fit with the MacBook’s minimalist aesthetic. These laptops are so small that they’re practically fit for a doll house. Adding extra design frills would really just serve to further confuse customers about the differences between Apple’s suite of laptops.
For the Pros, the commitment to the design makes sense. Apple just added its Touch Bar last go-around and, while reviews were mixed, it wouldn’t be realistic to expect the company to part ways with the idea so soon — it’s Apple we’re talking about after all. Hopefully additional functionality on the software side will increase its value proposition into the future.
Ping is still dead, but Apple Music is becoming more social, and more flexible so it can work with all your other devices or apps. This slew of new features will roll out with iOS 11 this September.
Image via Compub
Today at WWDC Apple announced that Apple Music now has 27 million paid subscribers compared to Spotify’s 50 million. This shows its pre-installation plus free trial strategy is helping Apple Music catch up to Spotify with its free ad-supported tier.
Developers will now be able to use the new MusicKit API to use your Apple Music subscription to play full songs in their apps. Developers can access your Cloud Library, pull your For You recommendations for music personalization, surface Featured music and charts to bubble up what’s most popular and search through playlists, stations and categories.
MusicKit will power Nike+ Run integrations with your playlists, the ability to instantly add songs to your library that you identify with Shazam and let you DJ with all of Apple Music’s 40 million songs via the podcasting app Anchor. MusicKit gives Apple Music a competing developer platform to Spotify’s range of APIs and SDKs that similarly let paid subscribers bring their music collection and all of Spotify’s songs to other apps.
The new AirPlay 2 bakes multi-room audio speaker control directly into iOS via HomeKit so you can easily play songs in specific parts of your house with Apple Music. The new watchOS 4 also comes with some Apple Music improvements, including a better interface, multiple playlist syncing and a simpler AirPods experience.
Apple Music user profiles are becoming more social. If you connect with a friend via Apple Music, you’ll be able to see what they’re listening to most or hearing right now so you can tune in to the same jams. For privacy, you’ll be able to choose whether your listening activity is public or private. Again, this replicates the social listening features Spotify debuted with Facebook back in 2011. Friends will also be able to add music to your Up Next queue, which is like a lightweight version of Spotify’s collaborative playlists.
Image via Cody Crouch
Apple appears to be taking Spotify’s platform and social playbook and making these features accessible in the layman’s streaming music app. While Spotify focuses its own algorithmic music discovery playlists like Discover Weekly, Apple is trying to convert former MP3 buyers into a new generation of streamers by focusing on simplicity and adaptability.

 Bryce Durbin
Apple’s Live Photos feature is becoming more powerful in iOS 11 with the introduction of a series of new editing tools and effects. In the new software, users will be able to trim their Live Photos and select their thumbnails, as well as apply a variety of effects like loops and long exposures to make their Live Photos more fun and engaging.
As is often the case, Apple appears to have taken inspiration from third-party applications in deciding which features were in demand and should be part of the core experience.
Apple introduced the Live Photos format back in 2015, allowing users to snap still images that animate with a press — sort of like a real-world version of the photographers you’d find in the Harry Potter universe. But sometimes Live Photos needed a little tweaking. For example, sometimes the video recorded needed to be trimmed, or the thumbnail selected wasn’t really the best shot.
Soon, third-party developers heeded the call, and rolled out apps for trimming and transforming Apple’s Live Photos.

But with iOS 11, these sorts of editing tools are now built-in, along with a number of new effects.
Apple has taken obvious inspiration from apps like Instagram’s Boomerang with effects that let you loop a live photo, or “bounce” the image back and forth. In one demo, Apple showed how you could turn a live photo of kids jumping into a pool into a loop where the kids fell into the water, then returned to the pool’s edge over and over.
Apple says it used computer vision techniques for its seamless looping effect.
Another Live Photo effect is called long exposure, and lets you animate a part of an image to give the sense of something that’s been recorded over time. For instance, a photo of a running stream could just feature the water’s movement.
The Live Photos upgrade will roll out in iOS 11.
Apple’s AirPlay 2 is the sequel to its original wireless audio streaming protocol, which adds multi-room synchronized streaming support, integration with HomeKit, Apple’s smart home control platform, and third-party app support. The AirPlay 2 feature will also let anyone on your Wi-Fi jump in and contribute to collaborative party playlists on the fly.
AirPlay 2’s public API means anyone making an app can also tap into the streaming fun, letting their own apps broadcast to multiroom speakers. Apple revealed a long list of hardware partners on the speaker side, too, meaning you should have no shortage of accessory choices. AirPlay 2 will also work with fourth generation Apple TV hardware, so that you can integrate your home theater system into the mix right away.

Multi-room audio is something that Sonos has done for a while, but it requires that apps support its own software and be controlled by its app. This could open up system-level iOS support, which would be amazing for stuff like YouTube, podcasts and more. It’s also table stakes with Google Cast, which Google offers as a system level feature on Android. That’s likely to preface a Siri speaker announcement, since it’s a key feature for Google Home, too. Stay tuned.
As part of iOS 11, Apple announced that users will now be able to send money to their friends via iMessage, and spend the balance via a virtual Apple Pay card.
The feature will be built into iMessage as an app, and essentially lets you send and request money with your contacts in one tap. The integration will also be able to do things like recognize when someone says “you owe me $10” and automatically prompt you to send them a payment.
Of course, sending money via iMessage isn’t new — companies like Square and Venmo already have iMessage apps that let you send payments via their platform. But owning the entire ecosystem is always what gives Apple the upper hand, and this time is no different.



Apple is integrating this peer-to-peer payments service with Apple Pay, which is what will make it a killer feature and eventually overtake Venmo and Square Cash payments. After someone sends you money, the balance lives on an Apple Pay virtual card stored in your Wallet app. While you can of course cash this money out to your bank account, you also can use the virtual card to pay anywhere Apple Pay is accepted, both in-store and online, without waiting a day for it to transfer to your bank account.
Essentially Apple is issuing every iOS user a virtual card that will hold a balance they can spend anywhere they want. It’s a brilliant move for Apple, since they (and any payments company) makes much more money when users hold and spend a balance instead of immediately cashing it out to their bank account.
Siri is getting less dumb and a little bit more human. That’s not a contradiction.
Apple’s voice assistant is getting a more clear, human voice in both female and male intonations alongside some new skills in iOS 11 that will improve its general performance.
Apple announced today that Siri is now used monthly on more than 375 million devices.
Apple is bringing translation to Siri so that you can ask the voice assistant how do say a certain English phrase in a variety of languages, including, at launch, Chinese, French, German, Italian and Spanish.
Siri has run into quite a bit more competition over the past few years as Amazon’s Alexa voice assistant and Google Assistant have grown in their capabilities and made the shortcomings of Siri’s AI wits a bit more evident. With these changes Apple is hoping to show off that it’s still the voice assistant to beat, though we’ll have to wait until later this year to see for ourselves.
Siri will now be able to handle follow-up questions, something that Google Assistant has long had, and will now allow Siri to answer more complex tiered questions.
The less broadcasted headline of the event is that Apple is increasingly thinking of Siri as more of a general AI that extends through iOS rather than simply a voice assistant. In iMessages for instance, Siri on iOS is getting a bit more sensitive to your context. If you get asked “where are you?” in iMessages the app will show a pop-up of your current GPS location.
Hardcore Mac fans may have had their fingers crossed for the return of the Mac Pro, but an extra “i” slipped in there somehow, and Apple instead has produced an iMac Pro. It’s a wallet-busting all-in-one workstation, and it looks handsome and sinister in a dark grey finish.
The iMac Pro has more or less the same look and feel as the 27-inch, 5K iMac we first saw in 2015 (though now it’s more like the $5K iMac, am I right?). But the engineers at Apple have once again reinvented the thermal qualities of the case — hopefully a little more carefully this time — in order to accommodate some hot new specs.
You get an Intel Xeon processor and, depending on how much you love cores, you get 8, 10 or 18 of them. The GPU is a Radeon Vega setup with up to 16 GB of VRAM — great for developers, especially in VR. Perhaps excessive is the up to 128 GB of system RAM you can get, but I’m sure someone out there is saying “finally!”
The one spec that didn’t really impress is the storage. A 4 terabyte SSD will fill up mighty fast if you’re really doing the HD video editing and game development Apple expects you to. External drives, NAS units and all that other stuff will be must-have add-ons.
Considerately, there is a nice little spread of ports on the back:
That’s your SDXC port, 4 USB 3 ports, 4 Thunderbolt (not Lightning) ports, Ethernet and — is that a headphone jack? Courageous!
It’s a nod to the professionals who love Macs but were dismayed by the recent MacBook Pro refresh making a clean sweep of all the “legacy” ports — i.e. ports used by millions in industries where “legacy” hardware and software is deeply embedded. Had Apple released an iMac Pro with 8 Lightning ports I think there might have been riots.
The price for this beast of a computer starts at $4,999 for a base configuration and, as you might imagine, rises precipitously from there. (Apple was careful to compare it to similarly priced workstations, not all-in-ones or ordinary desktops.)
“That iMac pro really is pretty badass,” said Tim Cook after the reveal. It ships in December.
Advertisement		




iOS 11 was the least surprising announcement of WWDC. Apple has announced new versions of its mobile operating system at its developer conference for years. While the final version of iOS 11 won’t be available until September, here’s what Apple has in store for you with iOS 11.
Apple CEO Tim Cook started by saying that iOS 10 is installed on 86 percent of iOS devices. Apple SVP of Software Engineering Craig Federighi then introduced us to iOS 11’s new features. “There’s a big focus on technologies with iOS 11, but also new features,” Federighi said.
With iOS 11, stickers and iMessage apps are now more accessible with a shortcut drawer — there’s no need to tap multiple times to send a sticker. Now, conversations are automatically synchronized with iCloud and stay in sync. If you delete a message, it goes away everywhere. So say goodbye to the good old avalanche of outdated messages on your Mac when you come back from vacation.




When it comes to Apple Pay, you can now send money to other Apple Pay users — think Venmo or Square Cash. It’s built into iMessage when you want to send money. And if you receive money, you get an Apple Pay Cash card with a balance. You can spend this money using Apple Pay, send this money again or withdraw it to your bank account.
Siri is one of the big new updates in iOS 11. Siri is used on 375 million devices every month. With iOS 11, the voice sounds more natural with better inflections. You can now ask for translations using Siri — starting with Chinese, French, German, Italian and English.
And Siri is getting better at understanding the context, your interests and more. Apple calls this “Siri intelligence” and it affects the entire operating system. When somebody asks you “how far are you?”, iOS will look at your calendar to see where you’re supposed to go and suggest the answer in Messages. If you’ve been looking at Iceland travel tips, it’ll add Reykjavik to your autocorrect dictionary, suggest news stories about Iceland in the News app and more.



The camera app now also supports HEVC (also known as h.265). It should let you shoot better quality video with a smaller file size. And it looks like the image processing layer is getting an update as well as you should get better photos with the same old phone. You can edit live photos to choose a different main still photo. And just like Instagram’s Boomerang, you can make live photos go back and forth or loop. Apple added the Memories tab to the Photos app last year. With iOS 11, the company is adding new smart albums, including a #TBT album..text .crunchreport h3 {color:#fff}

		Latest Crunch Report 







Element Raises $102 Million | Crunch Report





Watch More Episodes



Control Center is receiving a major update. It looks completely new and features a ton of buttons. Apple doesn’t want you to swap between multiple tabs. For instance, you can adjust the brightness and pause the music on the same page. And if you want more details, you can 3D touch on a widget to get more features.
Apple updated the driving direction in Apple Maps with iOS 10. Now, with iOS 11 you get detailed maps for malls in American cities and airports — Americans are going to love this.
When you’re driving, iOS recognizes that you’re connected to the audio system with Bluetooth or uses the iPhone’s motion sensors to activate a new ‘do not disturb’ mode. With this mode, you don’t get any notifications and you can configure an auto-reply if somebody texts you.
AirPlay is receiving a major update. With AirPlay 2, you can connect multiple speakers using WiFi and control multiple speakers using your iOS device. Libratone, Devialet, Bose, B&O and more are all going to support AirPlay 2. But that’s not all. AirPlay 2 gets a developer API. Developers can finally play with AirPlay.

Developers will also be able to work with Apple Music thanks to a new MusicKit API. For instance, Shazam will be able to auto-add songs to an Apple Music playlist (finally).



Phil Schiller talked briefly about App Store changes. The most important one is that the App Store is getting a brand new design. It looks a bit more like Apple News. ‘Today’ is going to give you the personalized app recommendations, while games get their own, separate tab. There will also be an ‘Apps’ tab to see recommendations from the App Store team.
Based on the demo, there will be a ton of text, images and content in general. It looks cleaner with a better layout and less taps. This redesign is long overdue anyway.

Crunchbase






				iOS			


 
Description
iOS is Apple's operating system for their mobile devices. It debuted in 2007 with the release of the first iPhone, but has since been


Website
http://www.apple.com/ios


Full profile for iOS 









And that’s about it for iOS 11. Beta starts today and you can expect more tweaks over the summer. Everybody will be able to download iOS 11 for free in September.
Update: It turns out that Apple had a bunch of new things in store. At the end of the keynote, Federighi came back on stage to announce iPad-specific features. On the iPad, there’s now a dock at the bottom of the screen so that you can switch between apps more easily. And if you need to use two apps at once, you can drag and drop an app and snap it on the side using Split View.
Talking about Split View, the app picker is completely new. It features Control Center shortcuts as well as previews of recently opened apps. It’s much better than the tiny column of icons in iOS 10.
There’s a new Files app that lets you browse your files on your iPad and on your cloud services. And then you can drag and drop files between Mail and the Files app. Apps don’t work in silo anymore and it’s a big revolution for Apple.
You can now draw in the Notes app using the Apple Pencil, and Apple will make this text searchable using OCR. The camera app is also receiving native document scanning. When you take a screenshot, a tiny pop-up appears in the corner. If you tap on it, you can crop your screenshot and annotate it without having to open the Photos app.
In many ways, iOS on the iPad feels more like a traditional computer. There are floating windows, a dock and more. This is how Apple plans to make the iPad more powerful.
iOS 11 is going to work on iPad Air and later, iPad mini 2 and later, iPad 5th gen and later, iPhone 5s and later.


Google Maps has just launched its first map showing the air quality right down to the block you are standing on in Oakland, California.
The project is in partnership with the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) and Aclima, a pollution sensor startup it has been working with to map environmental changes in the Bay Area, Central Valley and Los Angeles since 2015.
Google strapped Aclima sensors to its StreetView cars shortly after it began working with the company and its maps can now give you street-level data in areas with higher amounts of nitric oxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and black carbon — all pollutants coming from car exhaust.
One good example of how the map can help environmental scientists in the Bay Area is the ability to track higher pollution due to cars speeding up near the Bay Bridge to cross under or merge onto I-80, which is a freeway with frequent traffic congestion that goes beyond just rush hour and can sometimes even be affected on the weekends.
In a Google blog post, out today, Google claimed its pollution data set to be the largest ever published, “With nearly 3 million measurements and 14,000 miles captured in the course of a year,” and said it could apply the data to other cities in the future.
Apple just refreshed their iMac line, and while the external design will stay the same, the company has put a ton of effort into refreshing the insides to make them competitive with other professional-grade computers.
And, not surprisingly, most of the focus was on adding enough specs to make sure Macs can run VR applications for both consumers and developers.
All of the models will be getting new GPUs. The base 21.5-inch iMac will have an Intel Iris Plus Graphics 640 with 64MB eDRAM, the iMac Retina 4K 21.5-inch will have a Radeon Pro 555 or 560 and the powerhouse 5K 27-inch iMac will come with a Radeon Pro 570, 575 or 580 with up to 8GB of VRAM.
This means that the 5K model will be able to push up to 5.5 teraflops, which makes it a very competitive device for VR.



Outside of graphics, Apple is also refreshing the screen on the iMac, making it 43 percent brighter than the previous generation.
The 21.5-inch model will also now support up to 32GB of RAM, and the 27-inch model will support 64GB of RAM.
Also, the Fusion Drive is coming to all 27-inch models, and the entire lineup will get 7th Generation Intel Core “Kaby Lake” chips.
This refresh will make the new iMac really compelling for developers, especially those waiting for more powerful machines. Oculus once said that they don’t support Macs because they aren’t powerful enough to run a VR rig. Not anymore.



 
Virtual reality is coming to Macs, sort of.
Apple showed off a new version of Metal, named Metal 2, at its WWDC event Monday. The big news was that there will soon be Mac support for VR content creation. Apple is shipping “Metal for VR” with High Sierra.
All of this is enabled by Metal 2’s new support for external graphics, which will allow you to connect your Mac via Thunderbolt to an external GPU that’s a bit more beefy than the integrated graphics on the MacBooks and the less blazing graphics cards on desktop. This external graphics solution isn’t the most user-friendly configuration, so don’t expect any consumer-facing VR love too soon.
Notably, the company announced that it has partnered with Valve to bring SteamVR SDK support to the Mac. SteamVR is the software behind headsets like the HTC Vive and an upcoming headset from LG. Apple also detailed its collaborations with Unity and Epic Games’ Unreal engine to optimize the top VR game engines for macOS. No details on whether Oculus developers will get any native love.
Metal 2 has a new VR-optimized display pipeline alongside viewport arrays and stereoscopic visualization frame debuggers that should allow VR developers a great way to build content on the Mac.

Apple had a few VR demos to show off, specifically one from Star Wars made by Lucas Films’ Industrial Light and Magic. In a mixed reality demo, ILM showcased VR creation inside VR drag-and-dropping ships and Darth Vader himself.
“Metal for VR” ships with macOS High Sierra.
No one likes being stalked around the internet by ads for something they once looked at or have previously bought. And Apple has noticed this — so it’s adding an ad tracker blocker for its Safari web browser as part of a series of updates of its desktop OS.
Apple’s SVP of software engineering, Craig Federighi, unveiled the incoming Safari feature — which it’s calling “intelligent tracking prevention” — onstage at its developer conference, WWDC, drawing applause and a handful of appreciative “woos” from the crowd.
The feature will use machine learning technology to power tracker blocking in a bid to outwit the digital stalkers, according to Federighi.
“Safari uses machine learning to identify trackers, segregate the cross-site scripting data, put it away so now your privacy — your browsing history — is your own,” he explained.
“It’s not about blocking ads, the web behaves as it always did, but your privacy is protected,” he added.
There are plenty of questions here — such as how effective the tech will prove versus ad industry ingenuity; whether it will be enabled by default; and how much configuration consumers will be offered. Not to mention whether Apple will be extending the blocker to the mobile version of Safari. But it’s a positive step for privacy.
The explosive proliferation of online trackers in recent years — which not only intrude on web users’ privacy but can add serious lag to page load times too — has led to the rise of browser extensions for tracker blocking.
One of these standalones, Ghostery, was recently acquired by a pro-privacy browser called Cliqz, for example.
Apple has clearly spotted what it feels is growing appetite for web users to have more control over their browsing privacy.
Update: A little more detail on how the tracker blocker will function can be found on Apple’s Webkit blog, where it notes that it’s building on long-standing Webkit features aimed at reducing tracking (such as default blocking third-party cookies) with the new machine learning-powered tracker blocker, and that in its testing process it found popular websites with more than 70 cross-site tracking/third-party cookie trackers — “all silently collecting data on users.”
“Intelligent Tracking Prevention [ITP] is a new WebKit feature that reduces cross-site tracking by further limiting cookies and other website data,” writes Apple’s John Wilander in the blog. “Intelligent Tracking Prevention collects statistics on resource loads as well as user interactions such as taps, clicks, and text entries. The statistics are put into buckets per top privately-controlled domain or TLD+1.”
Apple then applies a machine learning model to classify which top privately controlled domains have the ability to track the user cross-site, based on the collected statistics. It notes that all data collection and classification happens on-device.
The ITP system analyzes the frequency of a user’s interaction with the websites they visit, automatically purging a site’s cookies entirely after 30 days if the person does not visit the site and ensuring its cookies cannot add new data so long as they don’t use the site.
However, if they do visit again, the tracker blocker temporarily adjusts how it responds — by, for example, allowing cookies in a third-party context for a one-day window before shutting that off if the person does not visit the site after 24 hours. In this scenario the cookies are partitioned, which means users can stay logged in to sites they only visit occasionally but those sites’ cookies are restricted for cross-site tracking purposes.
“This means users only have long-term persistent cookies and website data from the sites they actually interact with and tracking data is removed proactively as they browse the web,” adds Wilander.
There’s arguably a pretty big distinction between Apple dynamically shuttering the ability of websites that users of its browser aren’t actively using to deploy cross-site trackers which silently harvest those same consumers’ browsing habits in the background — a practice web users have long voiced loud discomfort about (i.e. when people complain about random ads stalking them around the internet), versus advertising company Google’s recent intent to add “quality filters” to its Chrome browser and actively block ads that do not meet its own quality bar, thereby controlling the marketing content Chrome users are able to see.
Keep up with everything going on at WWDC by watching it here or following our live blog.
Apple’s Kevin Lynch came on stage this morning at Apple’s Worldwide Developer Conference to introduce the next version of Apple’s smartwatch software, watchOS 4. The new platform introduces a number of new features, including new watchfaces – like one that integrates Siri support – and other fitness related updates, like personalized challenges, updated Workout and Activity apps, and more.
There were a number of new watchfaces introduced this morning, including those featuring Disney characters from “Toy Story,” and a trippy kaleidoscope one, but the most intriguing was the watchface that integrated Siri on your smartwatch’s home screen.
This face will display a stream of information provided by Siri and augmented by the assistant’s machine learning capabilities. That means your Siri-powered updates on your watch will update based on the time of day. For example, in the morning it might show your commute time to work or school, or show your meetings you have planned for the day.

The watchface can also show your smart home controls, boarding passes, the sunset time, and other items, including even suggested news stories in the Siri interface.
The Activity app has also gotten a minor update with watchOS 4. Now, when you close one of your Activity rings, there’s an animation with some sparkles that gives it more of an effect. It will also now tell you how much more work you need to do in order to complete a ring – e.g. “15 minutes of running.”
The Apple Watch update will also make the device a better virtual coach, if that’s how you use it. For instance, watchOS 4 introduces personalized, monthly workout challenges that prompt you to surpass your prior goals with new awards you can earn by increasing your activity.
The Workout app has a new interface too, and an easier Quick Start feature. There are new modes, like a swimming-centric mode with automatic sets and one for high-intensity, back-to-back workouts. When switching between workouts, you can now tap a plus button to add multiple workouts to that session.
Another fun feature is a way to configure your watch to start playing your desired workout playlist automatically whenever you begin your workout. This is part of an improved Apple Music experience on the watch, which also includes a new user interface, a better AirPods experience, better syncing of multiple playlists, and more.



And there’s a new flashlight mode in the Control Center that also doubles as an emergency flasher.
However, some of the less sexy but more exciting features involve things that are arriving under the hood. Native core bluetooth support, for example, is coming to Apple Watch. That means the watch will be able to better support hardware like glucose sensors and other real-time accessories, like a smart tennis rackets, for instance.
Plus, WatchOS 4 introduces a mode called “Gym Connect,” which allows you to sync directly with gym equipment like treadmills and ellipticals. This works by pairing the watch with an NFC sensor on the equipment itself from partners including Life Fitness, Cybex, Schwinn, Startrac, and StairMaster.
WatchOS 4 will ship in the fall as a free update. It’s arriving for developers today.



As expected, Apple today announced the next version of macOS, the desktop operating system you probably still refer to as OS X. Version 10.13 will carry the name “macOS High Sierra” and include new features like an improved file system and updates to core macOS apps like Photos and Mail. The developer beta is now available to developers; consumers can sign up for a public beta that will go live in late June.
There were virtually no leaks ahead of today’s reveal, probably because the team wasn’t really looking to reinvent the wheel with this release. Apple’s Craig Federighi today noted that the team wanted to spend the last year to perfect macOS Sierra. High Sierra is all about deep technologies that provide a foundation for new technologies, Federighi noted.

New in High Sierra is an updated version of Safari that Apple says will be the fastest web browser, especially with regard to JavaScript performance. Maybe more importantly, though, Safari also now blocks auto-playing videos and will use machine learning to identify trackers and segregate the cross-site trackers so advertisers won’t be able to easily track you across sites.
The built-in Mail app now uses less space for storing your mail, Federighi noted, and Photos also has received a major update that now makes better use of various machine-learning techniques to better recognize faces and improve sorting. The company also is opening its Photo Book printing service to third-party apps (which makes for interesting timing, given the launch of Google’s photo books only a few weeks ago).

But this release is mostly about the fundamentals. The default file system on macOS is now the Apple File System (APFS), for example. It’s a 64-bit system with built-in crash protection and instant file and directory cloning, for example. This is the same file system Apple already uses for iOS and tvOS.
MacOS also has support for HEVC as the default video container, which will replace H.264. This will be hardware accelerated on new Macs and integrated into apps like Final Cut. On the graphics side, Apple also announced Metal 2, the second version of its graphics-rendering framework. The focus here is mostly on graphics speed, but it can now also be used to speed up machine learning workloads on the GPU. In addition, Metal 2 can now access external graphics, using a Thunderbolt 3 enclosure with an AMD graphics card, which is now available for developers.

Metal is also getting VR support. The company is working with Steam, Unity and Unreal to bring better VR support to the Mac (which, of course, only works because the new Mac hardware now comes with an improved graphics card to drive these kinds of VR experiences).

Last September, the previous version of macOS went live under the “Sierra” moniker. The highlight of that release was the addition of Siri on the desktop. I don’t know many people who use it, but those who do surely find it useful. Other new features included the ability for apps to open new windows as tabs (just like you do in a browser), support for Apple Pay on the desktop, hands-free unlock with the help of a nearby Apple Watch, as well as updates to virtually all the default apps that now ship with macOS, like Messages and Photos.
Hate it when sites blast you with auto-play video? Well Apple is swooping in to fight this scourge with the addition of an auto-play-video-blocking feature to the new Safari browser for its upcoming macOS High Sierra desktop operating system. Announced today at WWDC, this option will let you keep auto-play videos paused until you choose to unpause them. The feature will roll out with the public beta of High Sierra in late June.

Apple is doing a great service to users while making life tougher for content publishers with this update.
Auto-play video can be convenient when it’s predictable and only happens when a video is on screen, like in some social apps. But when a text news article suddenly starts blaring sound from an ad or auto-play video player in the sidebar, it’s infuriating and an abuse of our attention.
Publishers have reacted to Google and Facebook sucking up their ad revenue by resorting to these user-hostile tactics. So few beyond these outlets are likely to complain when Apple’s focus on user experience lets Safari steamroll this media format.
In another attack on the exploitative end of the advertising industry, Safari is introducing a tracker blocker that uses machine learning to detect and thwart these systems for the benefit of your privacy.
No word on whether these features will make their way to the mobile version of Safari, but the moves show that Apple has no qualms about screwing advertisers for the good of its customers.
You can keep up with everything going on at WWDC by watching it here or following out live blog 
Apple introduced WatchOS 4, the newest iteration of the operating system that powers Apple Watch today at WWDC.
There was a big focus on health, with new features coming to the Activity and Workout apps on the watch like a swimming-centric mode and the ability to track back-to-back workouts.
However, the coolest feature may be that with WatchOS 4 your watch will be able to sync directly to gym equipment like treadmills and ellipticals. Apple prefaced this feature by saying that sometimes your gym equipment can better sense data that your Apple Watch can’t, or vice versa. This solution should fix that issue by making sure both devices have access to the most accurate data.
Called Gym Connect, the new feature will work by pairing your watch via an NFC sensor on the equipment. Launching in the fall, partners will include Life Fitness, Cybex, Schwinn, Startrac, Technogym and StairMaster, all whom will be building equipment that support this feature. Together these companies make up the majority of the gym equipment market.
It’s interesting to see Apple be so open about using NFC technology – even though it powers Apple Pay the company typically has refrained from using the NFC terminology when discussing the tech that powers their payment platform.
Gym Connect will launch this wall with WatchOS 4, which will be a free upgrade this fall for all Apple Watch users.
Confirming an earlier report, Apple kicked off its Worldwide Developer Conference this morning with an announcement that Amazon’s Prime Video would now arrive on the Apple TV. The two companies, which have been fierce rivals in the video space, had come to agreement earlier this year that allowed Amazon’s app to finally reach the Apple TV platform.
“We are so pleased to welcome Amazon to Apple TV,” said Apple CEO Tim Cook, after a brief mention of the company’s TV app, which now supports channels with video content from 50 partners.
Recode had first reported that Amazon and Apple were nearing an agreement to bring Amazon’s app to Apple TV, and BuzzFeed later confirmed the news.

The companies have had a number of issues with each other over the years. Amazon, for example, had stopped selling Apple TV devices as well as Google’s Chromecast a couple of years ago, and it even extended that ban to third-party electronics dealers.
Apple didn’t say when exactly Amazon’s video app would arrive on tvOS, beyond “later this year.”
It’s time, Apple fans. It’s Day 1 of Apple’s Worldwide Developer Conference — which, in turn, means it’s time for Apple to debut pretty much everything it’s been working on behind the scenes for the past year. Just as we’ve been doing for ages and if you can’t watch the live stream at work, we’ll be reporting live from the scene with up-to-the-second updates as the news unfolds.
So what will Apple announce? The rumor mill has churned out whispers on everything from a major new build of iOS, to new MacBook Pros, to Apple’s take on the Amazon Echo/Google Home speaker concept. You’ll have to tune in to find out — fortunately, you’re in the right spot. We’ll be live blogging right here on this very page.
The keynote is scheduled to begin at 10 AM Pacific. For our friends around the world: that’s 1 PM Eastern, 7 AM Hawaii, 6 PM London and 1 AM on the 6th over in Beijing. With that said: swing by early. We pretty much always start bringing back photos and commentary from around the event before the keynote actually starts.






The HomePod will work as a home assistant, too, of course — so you can use Siri to pull in things like music, news, messages, timers, stocks, and weather. It feels like Apple is sort of tucking this bit in at the end as a footnote to the music quality, as Echo/Google Home already focus hard on it.



And that’s all, folks! Thanks for tuning in!
Apple is holding a keynote today at the McEnery Convention Center in San Jose, and the company is expected to unveil new updates for iOS, macOS, tvOS, watchOS and maybe also the iPad Pro and the MacBook Pro. At 10 AM PT (1 PM in New York, 6 PM in London, 7 PM in Paris), you’ll be able to watch the event as the company is streaming it live.
Apple is likely to talk about some new features for all its software platforms — WWDC is a developer conference after all. But Apple also usually holds a press conference in the spring. This year, Apple has stayed quiet, turning its usual WWDC keynote into a big deal. Rumor has it that Apple is about to unveil a 10.5-inch iPad Pro, as well as minor MacBook (Pro) updates. And maybe Apple could even unveil an Amazon Echo speaker competitor, but don’t hold your breath for this one. It’s going to be a packed event.
If you have the most recent Apple TV, you can download the Apple Events app in the App Store. It lets you stream today’s event and rewatch old events. Users with old Apple TVs can simply turn on their devices. Apple is pushing out the “Apple Events” channel so that you can watch the event.
And if you don’t have an Apple TV, the company also lets you live-stream the event from the Apple Events section on its website. This video feed only works in Safari and Microsoft Edge; the good news is that it works on macOS, iOS and Windows 10 — chances are you have at least one device running Safari or Edge.
So to recap, here’s how you can watch today’s Apple event:

Safari on the Mac or iOS.
Microsoft Edge on Windows 10.
An Apple TV gen 4 with the Apple Events app in the App Store.
An Apple TV gen 2 or 3, with the Apple Events channel that arrives automatically right before the event.

Of course, you also can read TechCrunch’s live blog if you’re stuck at work and really need our entertaining commentary track to help you get through your day.
We don’t have to wait too long to see Microsoft’s Project Scorpio as it will ship to consumers, and we’ve already seen the developer hardware being used to get software ready for the console being unveiled in full at E3. But in case you wanted an appetizer ahead of the official show next week, take a look at this Microsoft-produced look at the Scorpio dev kit.
This details a number of features for the dev kit, including an extra networking port just for developer use, as well as a dongle that hangs off the back to help you transfer pre-release builds from PC to console incredibly fast thanks to special high-throughput hardwired I/O. We also get a better look at that front-facing on-console display, which helps devs make small changes very quickly.
Take a look above and get ready; this should be the console to beat all consoles once it finally ships out to consumers.
Facebook has launched a new feature that makes it easier for users to share their views with their elected government officials directly from a Facebook post. In the “Compose” window that pops up when you prepare to write a post, there’s now a new option that lets you search for and add your representatives’ information to your post.
The idea is that as you’re expressing your political views on a matter via a Facebook post, you can share that you’re contacting your representative about the matter and encourage your family, friends and followers to do the same.
The feature is available to both individual users and Facebook Page owners, as you can see in the screenshots below.
Our own TechCrunch account was able to access the option through a dedicated icon in the Compose window. However, on individual profile pages, it’s been integrated into the “Feelings & Activities” section under the option “Contacting…”


Above: contacting government reps from a Page

Above: contacting government reps from a profile
The feature, which is available on both web and mobile, doesn’t really tag the government rep in question or alert them to your post. But it makes reaching out to your rep via Facebook only a click away, by attaching their names, titles and a contact button to your Facebook post.
This is the latest addition to Facebook’s Town Hall platform — a recently launched initiative designed to make it easier for Facebook users to locate, follow and contact their local, state and federal government representatives via the social network.

Town Hall officially launched to all U.S. users in March, where it’s available from Facebook’s menu navigation, as well as through various integrations with the News Feed. For example, Facebook previously introduced a feature that invites you to call, message or email your rep when you like or comment on one of their posts. You could then share a post to your own profile alerting your friends of your political action.
Before now, these sorts of Town Hall features were only available to those who were already engaging with their government representatives on Facebook, or who were actively seeking their reps’ information. With the new integration into the “Compose” box, users who may have otherwise been just sharing their own personal, political opinions may now be encouraged to take action — and prompt others to do so, as well.
“This feature makes it easier for people with common interests to share their views with their elected representatives,” a Facebook spokesperson explained.
Facebook first began rolling out the integration in the Compose box in early May, the company tells us. It reached all users in the U.S. as of last week.
The 25-year-old Foxwoods Resort Casino in Connecticut is the largest resort casino (by overall casino space) in North America — larger than any of its competitors in Las Vegas. Like most casinos, Foxwoods, too, is feeling the pressure to modernize and look at the nascent online gambling space. To do this, Foxwoods launched its free-to-play site last year, for example, and it’s now teaming up with Victory Square Ventures to launch a new project, the aptly named “Foxwoods and Victory Square Ventures Living Lab,” to develop and market new gaming and betting-related entertainment technology.
This partnership, which was first announced at the Traction Conference in Vancouver last week, and which Victory Square and Foxwoods describe as a “first-of-its-kind” deal, marks an interesting moment for the gaming industry, which hasn’t typically worked with outside VCs and accelerator programs. Owned by the Mashantucket Pequot Tribe, Foxwoods is willing to experiment, though. In part, this may be due to the fact that while its geographic location between Boston and New York City was a major boon to its revenue in its early years, the fact that a number of new casinos are set to open in upstate New York, for example, puts a bit more pressure on Foxwoods. In that environment, it only makes sense for the casino to want to innovate as it looks to expand online, especially as a number of states are now looking to legalize online gambling.
Victory Square Ventures uses a studio approach and provides early-stage funding to startups in the web, mobile, gaming and film industries. It has launched about 40 startups in 24 countries and the team says these companies have generated more than $100 million in sales so far.
“Foxwoods is thrilled to partner with Victory Square Ventures, joining two of the most innovative minds in the gaming industry,” said Felix Rappaport, president and CEO of Foxwoods Resort Casino. “The Living Lab is an exciting enterprise that represents not only the next step in Foxwoods’ gaming evolution, but our commitment to leading the transformation of the industry as a whole and continuously giving guests unique experiences that excite. This is the future of gaming.”

 Bloomberg/Getty Images
In December, Amazon introduced a way to shop its site from the Apple TV through a dedicated app designed for tvOS. That same app, which lets you search and browse Amazon products and make purchases using your remote, has now officially launched on Amazon’s Fire TV, too.
According to Amazon’s website, the app was released on May 24, 2017. However, news of its existence leaked out in April when what appeared to be a test version of the app briefly appeared online before being removed.
Similar to the Apple TV version, Amazon’s shopping app for Fire TV lets you search across Amazon by typing in text, filter your search results (e.g. by department), as well as browse the product listings on your TV.

When viewing an individual item, you can learn more by clicking through large product images, watching videos, seeing the star rating, checking out the “customer also bought” recommendations, as well as reading through the customer reviews on the product’s detail page.
The app additionally supports adding things to your Wish List if you’re not prepared to immediately make a purchase.

However, if you do want to shop from your Fire TV, that’s now possible.
The new app lets you check out right from your TV screen, allowing you to pick from the available shipping options, your saved payment methods and the addresses stored in your Amazon account. You can use your existing gift card and promotional balances, too, just as you can on Amazon’s website.
Also like the Apple TV app, the Fire TV shopping app will feature regularly updated “campaigns” as part of its experience. These are curated collections — like gift guides, or those that select the best items from a given category — which you can flip through for inspiration.




At launch, for example, there are several campaigns available, including things like “Outdoor Living” ideas, those promoting Amazon products like Echo, one featuring Amazon’s “Handmade” collection and many more.

While the Apple TV application allowed customers to search items by voice using the Apple TV Siri remote, the Fire TV remote’s voice function only lets you search across the Fire TV platform (e.g. for apps, games, TV shows, movies, etc.), we found — it can’t be used within the app to save you from typing.
Though the app is only a few days old, and has not been officially announced by Amazon, it has still managed to attract a couple dozen reviews on its listing page on Amazon.com, where it now has a 4.3 star rating.
IBM Research has created a new type of transistor for chips that enable 5nm construction, the smallest ever for a silicon processor. This new method, created in tandem with research partners GLOBALFOUNDRIES and Samsung, changes some basic things about how chips are put together, and helps break a barrier with the previous process that essentially signaled the end of Moore’s Law.
This new process created by IBM will make it possible for engineers to put as many as 30 billion transistors on a chip the size of a single human fingernail, using a new process called gate-all-around (GAA) transistors, which uses horizontal layers of stacked silicon to enable a fourth “gate” on transistors on the chip.
For practical purposes, this is important because it helps enable a 40 percent performance improvement over current 10nm chip designs — but using the same amount of power. If you wanted to optimize for power savings, alternatively, you could create chips with the same performance level as today’s 10nm units, but with a 75 percent reduction in how much power is needed to achieve that performance.
Before you get too excited, however, remember that these things take time to move beyond the research stage; 10 to 15 years between original breakthrough and market proliferation, by IBM’s own admission. Still, it definitely gives us something to look forward to, especially when it comes to powerful, local, mobile computing.
Ian Spalter is the head of design at Instagram. In our 17th episode, he talks about his experiences working with agencies vs. startups, how to build a design team as a company matures, and how a company the size of Instagram manages to iterate so quickly.
There is no right answer for everyone. There are differences between agency and startup design work, and Spalter says it’s up to where you are in your design career to figure out which one works best. He says agencies have strengths in offering a larger variety of work, whereas startups and companies offer depth on one thing. Spalter shares the pros and cons of each, explaining along the way how to evaluate which one might be a better fit for you.
Scaling an operation as large as Instagram is no easy task. Spalter says “you can never underestimate your planning and prioritization process” when it comes to moving forward. He also hits on the topic of Instagram’s controversial “Stories” feature and shares how it came as a result of Instagram’s underlying principles.
Jared Erondu and Bobby Ghoshal are the hosts of High Resolution. This post and episode notes were put together by freelance writer, Gannon Burgett. Watch for High Resolution episodes to drop every Monday on TechCrunch at 8 a.m. PT. You can also listen on iTunes and Overcast.
3D printing startup Formlabs is using its Digital Factory conference today to make its two biggest announcements since launching the Form 1 on Kickstarter half a decade back. Both are pretty logical extensions for a company that’s always straddled the line between desktop and industrial 3D printing, by offering pro-level high-res printing in a portable/affordable form factor.
According to CEO Max Lobovsky, around 95-percent of Formlabs’ existing customers are professional, with a small minority of hobbyists taking the plunge. These next steps for the company make a push into direct manufacturing and the embrace of a 3D printing technology long out of reach for most startups.
While the Form 1 and 2 printers were developed with prototyping in mind, the devices have already begun making their way into the still-young world of 3D printing for manufacturing. That’s mostly taken the form of biomedical devices – things like dental implants that rely on high degrees of customization. Founder and CEO Max Lobosvky estimates that some five-million people around the globe have used products created on a 3D printer, with companies like Invisalign dental making up the biggest chunk of that market share
It’s not mass manufacturing, exactly, but does represent a direct line from the 3D printer to the consumer. And the new Form Cell marks the beginning of scalability for Formlabs’ desktop offering. The principle of the system is a lot like Stratasys’ newly unveiled Continuous Build 3D Demonstrator in that it’s essentially a bunch of 3D printers networked into a single system. A sort of wall of 3D printers. But where Stratasys’ solution requires companies to start from scratch, the new Formlabs offering simply slots in existing Form 2 printers.

Form Cell is an array of up to five connected Form 2s, plus the company’s new Wash and Cure systems, which help put the finishing touches on the prints by dunking them in an alcohol solution for cleaning and zapping then with a little extra light to complete the curing process. A robot arm attached to the rig moves the prints from one station to the next, as seen in the above video. Kind of a self-continued micro-factory of sorts.
The whole process can be controlled remotely, and the system can be operated as “lights out manufacturing,” meaning no one has to be present while the machine does its thing. It’s a stupidly simple solution, really – just plug a bunch of existing machines into a new remote-controlled framework. That kind of modular solution is a cost cutting measure. It won’t be cheap, but with a combined cost of around $20,000 for the five printers, and the remainder of the system running “in the low tens of thousands of dollars,” according to Lobovsky, that’s still a fraction of the cost most of these automated systems will run.

New Balance will be one of the first companies to take advance of the new small scale manufacturing. Starting next year, the athletic shoe maker will be using Formlabs’ system to create custom 3D printed footwear, similar to what Adidas has been developing with Carbon printers. It’s a step beyond the current biomedical applications for 3D printing, but one that still benefits from customization.
Like all of the news you’ll hear around 3D printing for manufacturing over the next couple of years, Form Cell is just a toe dip. But the company has no problem managing expectations. It’s one of the elements that helped it maintain steady growth under the radar as the competition happily played into the 3D printing hype bubble that was at its height when Formlabs first hit the scene.
“Investors, press, everyone was obsessed with the mass consumer thing,” says Lobovsky. “If there’s one area we’ve lost to MakerBot and 3D Systems, it’s in terms of press. Now everyone is talking about mass production. ‘We’re going to produce millions of parts.’ But it’s not going to be random plastic bits in a car. It’s where 3D printing has a unique edge. It is going impact people, it just might be in slightly creepy [i.e. dental drilling] applications.”
Formlabs has made its name focusing on current professional applications for its technologies, rather than swinging for the fences with the promise of ushering in an era of 3D printers in every home. And the play has been a successful one for the Boston-based startup. The company has grown to 270 employees and recently opened offices in Berlin.
Lobovsky tells me that there are now 25,000 Formlabs printers out in the world. The company estimates that it’s currently shipping more professional 3D printers than all other companies combined, thanks to its ability to offer up pro-level prints at the fraction of the price of industrial machines. So the total numbers are there, even if the company isn’t making as much money per machine.

These aren’t mainstream consumer electronics numbers by any stretch of the imagination, but they’re quite strong for the space, and a rare bright spot in a 3D printing industry that currently feels a bit aimless. The company has had particular success among hardware startups. A Wired profile of Andy Rubin’s Essential from last week prominently featured one of its printers. Formlabs is content to be a company behind the company.
And it has similarly strong, but realistically modest projections for its other big announcement. The Fuse 1 aims to do for SLS (selective laser sintering) printing what the Form 1 did for SLA, delivering a prohibitively expensive 3D printing technology at a fraction of the size and cost of what is currently available.

The new printer is larger and pricier than the Form systems, starting at $9,999, but FormLabs estimates that the system is around 20x less expensive than the current lowest price SLS machines, and unlike the competition, it’s not the size of an air hockey table. The technology is superficially similar to the SLA (what you’ll find on the Form series), only instead of curing liquid resin with UV light, SLS sinters powder material, melding it into a solid object, layer by layer.
SLS is able to use a broader range of materials with differing levels of strength, flexibility and stiffness. The most geometrically complex prints you see from on-demand market place services like Shapeways are often created on SLS machines. During our conversation, Lobosvsky pulls out a bike pedal printed on the machine that a Formlabs employee has been using for a year on the bike he uses to commute into work. Not something you’d want to try with other desktop printers.

But the CEO acknowledges that the Fuse 1’s appeal, while strong in certain circles, will likely be more limited that its Form line, owing, in part, to pricing.
“It won’t be as high volume as the Form2, for sure,” he explains. “But we think we’re going to do the same thing we did with SLA, where we’re going to sell more of these than all of the other competitor combined, because today SLS is less than 1,000 a year, combined. These are the rarest, highest of end of the printers.”
Entrepreneur and digital media executive Luke Beatty is the new chairman and CEO at Brandfolder.
The Denver-based startup helps companies manage logos, images, videos and other resources in a secure, permissions-based way, with analytics. (Naturally, Brandfolder has its own brandfolder.) This can serve as a handy resource for reporters, but also as a tool for salespeople to find all the assets needed for presentations, or for the company to quickly tweak their branding for different promotions.
Beatty, meanwhile, is known for founding the startup Associated Content, selling it to Yahoo (where he worked as vice president and general manager), leading the Techstars program in Boulder and then serving as president of media brands at AOL, where he oversaw TechCrunch and other properties.
Beatty left AOL at the end of last year. He told me he’s been relaxing and spending time with his family for the past six months, but he’s now ready to take on a new role.
He emphasized that he’s taking the job at the invitation of Brandfolder’s outgoing CEO Steve Baker, who will become the company’s president — the idea is that Baker can focus on sales while Beatty can “do more operational stuff.” Beatty added that both investors and employees still see Baker as “the backbone of the company.”
Beatty was actually one of the initial investors at Brandfolder, and he said that when it comes to managing brand assets, “every company now is starting to see that it needs to have more than email and Dropbox.”
“I think that next to a business’ customer list and a business’ IP, their brand often has the most value in the company,” he said.
Beatty added that after raising only $3 million in funding from angel investors, Brandfolder decided against chasing a big venture round, but he won’t rule it out in the future. (“Never say never.”) Still, it may not be necessary, as the company is already cash-flow positive.
Looking ahead, Beatty said one of the big challenges will be creating more features for Brandfolder’s different customer groups while ensuring that the product is something that can be adopted “quickly, easily and efficiently — so you don’t need weeks of training.”
Video is the name of the game in social media these days, as Facebook and Instagram continue to ramp up features to grab users from Snapchat, and Twitter moves into 24-hour news broadcasting partnerships to push more engagement. Now a startup from Berlin, Germany hopes a focus on video will help it break open a new market for e-commerce: Generation Z.
Yeay (pronounced “yay”) is a new mobile app aimed at 12-18-year-olds (or 13-18 in the case of the U.S.) that provides a platform to buy and sell things for themselves or on behalf of other brands — using short Snapchat-style video stories as its main medium, and pushing entrepreneurship by tapping into what Yeay founder Melanie Mohr sees as a key hallmark of “Gen Z” consumers: “everyone wants to be a creator.”
Yeay has been in beta since last year and now, with 500,000 downloads and 100,000 registered users, it is announcing a seed round of $4.9 million.
The funding was led by German VC Grazia Equity and Mountain Partners. Also participating were René Obermann, the former CEO of Deutsche Telekom who is now a partner at Warburg Pincus; and two veteran executives from the world of consumer goods, Elio Leoni Sceti, former CEO both of frozen food company Iglo Group and EMI Music, and Erhard Schoewel, a board member of cosmetics company Coty.
The internet is awash with ways for individuals and businesses to sell things today. They include old stalwarts like Amazon, eBay and Craigslist; a newer generation of mobile upstarts like LetGo and OfferUp; and entities like Facebook, which has woven a gigantic social web and is leveraging that to build a locally focused marketplace. The list also includes a number of steps back: see the many attempts to build social selling and purchasing platforms on top of services like Twitter and Facebook, for example.
Yeay is among a newer wave of startups that are less interested in building direct competitors to any of these to eat into their customer bases as they are about creating new services that cater to the habits and interests of an entirely new group of consumers — similar to Snapchat, Musical.ly and Houseparty.
Notably, none of the big e-commerce platforms are known as a go-to place for 12-18-year-olds, so Yeay wants to be the eBay for this same generation.
The startup is still young and small — App Annie ranks Yeay at only 787 across all shopping apps on iOS in the U.S., and at 61 in its home market of Germany.
And there are a lot of things that it has yet to really address when you compare it to the likes of Amazon or many other smaller efforts in the area of P2P marketplaces.
For example, any and all logistics for items that are sold are left up to the seller and buyer to sort out, without Yeay providing much support (yet).
And when it comes to payments, Yeay is still trying to figure out what the best route is for its target group. Right now, it’s based around PayPal, although the idea is to explore other options.
“Gen Z does not have a sense for currencies anymore,” Mohr said, “and the world of fintech hasn’t addressed how to serve this crowd with creative tools. Most don’t have credit cards or any payment systems set up to purchase items or receive payments. Many basically use the bank of mom and dad.” She added that Yeay is looking at potentially something like a prepay system or digital currencies.
And, for now, it’s completely free to list and sell and do anything on the site: Yeay is completely pre-revenue as it builds up users and use cases.
All of what Yeay is and hopes to become as a business ultimately will have to pass regulatory muster, which in many countries may be quite stringent because the target audience is under 18. (Marketing and selling as a minor is not forbidden per se. Facebook, for example, today allows under 18s, to “purchase using the Buy button feature [but] only with the involvement of your parent or guardian.”)
If Yeay can navigate all of this, though, it could be tapping into an interesting gap in the e-commerce world.
Mohr, who is also the CEO, said that the idea for Yeay came out of two influences. The first was her observation of popular home shopping channels, which have found it hard to move to mobile and grow their audiences because many segments can last for as long as 30 minutes.
The second was her two oldest children, teenagers aged 16 and 19, who are active on Snapchat and Musical.ly. Putting two and two together, “I thought that there was an opening there, to create something like QVC or HSN, but for a younger audience,” she said. “Shorter, and more ‘Snapchatty.’ ”
Yeay takes its feature cues from these services. Users make quick videos to sell their used sneakers or clothes, and they embellish them with writing, lenses and other tweaks. They can then share and follow people on the app, or post the links elsewhere. The idea with Yeay is to make the whole sales pitch and purchase on its app, without linking users through to other websites or services to seal the deal.
Users are today posting videos of their own things for sale — some $2 million in merchandise is up for sale on Yeay right now, Mohr said — but this is only one way that the app is being used. The other is as a channel for viral marketing, using Yeay’s army of teen users’ desire to make videos and share them.
“It was a revenue stream we hadn’t thought of in the beginning, allowing people to make user-generated content for brands through brand challenges. Now we are starting to work with more brands to develop this,” Mohr said.
Yeay’s version of viral marketing has been propelled by other, much more massive video sites like YouTube. The Google-owned video platform has developed into a substantial repository of marketing videos, made by YouTube stars and those who hope to become YouTube stars, on behalf of brands as part of larger campaigns.
Search for “Pringles challenge” on YouTube and you get a long list of videos made by mostly regular people who are hoping their own versions of eating the snacks will be catchy enough to go viral to get thousands of views and followers.
Yeay’s ambition is to create a more organic kind of platform for Yeay’s users to tap into opportunities to make videos for products they like.
“Influencer marketing is broken. It worked for millennials but not Gen Z.” Yeay’s research found that some 80 percent of teenagers today do not trust brands on social media, “so it’s time for a new way. Messaging needs to come from influencers who are excited about brands and are creating content themselves, not from brands reaching out.” 
Gen Z may be wary of old marketing ways, but old marketers seem to be on to them: Mohr said that multiple large agencies have been in touch, and Yeay is responding with open arms.
Oi oi London! Did you miss us? We missed you — although, admittedly, I do live here — which is why we’re returning for a TechCrunch Meetup + Pitch-off on 19 July, in conjunction with the incredibly fun conference, Unbound.
If you’re looking to pitch your startup to the TechCrunch team (because, who isn’t?), local VCs and the local tech community, this is the moment you’ve been waiting for.
Ten companies will be selected to participate in the pitch-off. Each will have exactly 60 seconds to pitch their startup in front of a panel of expert judges, including TC editors and local venture capitalists. Judges will conduct a quick Q&A after each rapid fire pitch, and at the end of all the presentations the panel will determine the winners.
First place at the London Meetup + Pitch-off wins a table in Startup Alley at TechCrunch Disrupt Berlin. Second place gets two tickets to the show, and the Audience Choice winner takes home one ticket to the conference.
Apply to pitch our editors and panel of judges here.
And even if you aren’t interested in pitching on stage yourself, the Meetups are a great opportunity to network with the local tech community and meet TechCrunch writers. Plus, there will be beer (and, if I have my way, tea also).
Buy tickets for just £10 by following this link.
Laters!
Sponsors make TechCrunch events possible. If you want to learn more about sponsorships with TechCrunch, shoot an email to sponsors@techcrunch.com.

A bit about Unbound, our partner:
Join us 19 & 20 July for unbound London, the UK’s largest and most exciting innovation festival, to engage with 5,000 entrepreneurs, corporate/brand executives and investors from 65 countries around the world, be inspired by 150 cross-industry speakers and discover hundreds of pioneering startups: https://goo.gl/BIJULc  Use this code for 50% off: techcrunch50
In recent years, there’s been plenty of debate about the merits of college and whether, given the escalating price of a higher education — and the time required — it’s worth it. Certainly, dropping out of college proved an auspicious decision for Bill Gates, Steve Jobs and Michael Dell. The same could be said of Mark Zuckerberg, Ev Williams and Travis Kalanick.
WeWork co-founder and CEO Adam Neumann feels rather differently about the value of a college diploma. In fact, today, 15 years after enrolling in Baruch College in New York, Neumann — whose company is currently valued by its investors at roughly $17 billion — is both delivering the commencement address at the school and graduating, having recently completed the independent study he needed to finally receive his bachelor’s degree.
We were in touch with him late yesterday to ask why he made the effort.
TC: Did you know from the outset that you wanted to study business?
AN: When I moved to New York City from Israel, I came here with the idea to get a great job, have tons of fun and make a lot of money. Growing up in Israel, I watched a lot of American TV and I thought it’s what the “cool” people did, and I wanted the same thing. I thought this was the American dream — a fast-paced pursuit, a joyride — and it drove my desire to pursue a career in business. After I met [my wife] Rebekah, I realized that this was wrong. She told me that if I brought passion and intention together, it would lead me in the right direction and I would become genuinely happy. And then, the money would follow.
TC: Were you a good student? How would you describe your teenage self? 
AN: When I started at Baruch in January 2002, I was almost 23 years old. I’d previously spent five years as an officer the Israeli Navy. I did what I thought you were supposed to do at that age — a little studying and a lot of trying to have fun.
TC: I think I’ve heard you say that you had the idea for WeWork while a college student, but a professor dissuaded you. If so, have you been in touch with that professor in subsequent years?
AN: In college, I entered an entrepreneurship competition and I submitted a concept like our current product WeLive that was called “concept living.” There were five rounds. The first round was a written proposal and in the second round you got to present, and I didn’t even get to present. The professor didn’t think I’d be able to raise enough money to change the way people live.
I think there’s an important lesson in that, when you’re a teacher, when you’re in a position of power, when you’re a leader, be very careful what you tell people they can’t do. Because they might just listen to you. And you may just be crushing a dream that might be very, very meaningful — not just to that person but to the world.
However, what he said to me influenced me to start WeWork first, and I would not have been able to launch WeLive without the success of WeWork.
TC: Why did you drop out?
AN: A month after my women’s shoe line failed, I started a new business: baby pants with kneepads to protect the child’s knees as the infant crawled on the floor. I called it Krawlers. I convinced one of my Baruch marketing professors to fly to China with me and help me out. We found a supplier and filled our first order, but when the samples finally arrived, they were a mess: the knee-pads were at the ankles; the sleeves were two inches too long. Two strikes in a row was a lot to take, so I struggled to make the company work. I shifted the business and turned it into a mass-market baby clothing company. For five years, I struggled making payroll each month to my small team of eight employees. It was a constant struggle, and with only four credits left, I dropped out of school, deciding to give every bit of my energy to my business.
TC: Your grandmother in Israel agreed to pay for your college when you decided to move to New York. Was she upset when you dropped out?
AN: My grandmother — Safta Esti — paid for my entire education, and she really wanted me to graduate. When I dropped out, she relentlessly kept asking for me to graduate. I’m graduating today, but even yesterday she was still pushing me to graduate.
But it wasn’t just her — some of my early employees, including a few who had just graduated from Baruch, also pressured me to graduate. It was important to everyone that I do this. I made a commitment to her that I would do this and I’m so happy that she’ll be there celebrating with me and my fellow graduates.
TC: How much independent study was left for you to complete after you left school and at what point did you resolve to do it?
I made the decision to go back last year, and I completed an independent study over the course of about four months. My grandmother had always wanted me to go back, and without the support she and my grandfather showed me through the years, I wouldn’t have had the opportunity to attend college. I’m finally old enough to realize just how important family really is, and I couldn’t be happier to finally give my grandmother the joy of seeing her grandson make something of himself and graduate college.
TC: There’s a lot of debate about the value of a college education, including because of its soaring price tag. Given your success in recent years, how can you not conclude that a college diploma is overrated? 
AN: I dropped out with just four credits left. I thought it wouldn’t matter because for me, school represented the experiences and connections that were made and I didn’t think a piece of paper was going to make a difference.
But there was never a doubt in mind that studying and education were important. Baruch College taught me how to write my first business plan, it gave me the opportunity to start my first business, it taught me my first public failure, when I didn’t make it to the second stage of that competition. I do believe that mentorship is something I did not get in school, and I don’t think it exists in school in a sufficient way. Mentorship plays such an important role in business — we know it’s a must — and I believe schools should embrace it in a much fuller way.
TC: What was the most rewarding aspect of your experience at Baruch?
Because most of the students were an average of four or five years younger than me, I learned about American culture at Baruch and I learned about millennials. And because Baruch is one of the most diverse colleges in the country, with more than 168 countries represented on campus, and because being Israeli, I came from not such a diverse country, I learned important lessons about diversity there. I had Palestinian friends at Baruch, where, growing up in Israel, that just didn’t exist. In my time at Baruch, I definitely got to hear a lot more opinions and I learned to listen and to be a lot more tolerant.
TC: You have young children. If, 10 to 15 years from now, one of them wants to drop out of college — inevitably pointing to the fact that their dad dropped out and did just fine — how might you react?
I hope that by the time my children go to college, college will have evolved into an experience that focuses more on being a good global citizen of the world. I hope that the experience of attending college will become so meaningful that no one who could help it could even imagine dropping out.
I’m not a fan of educational toys. They’re usually either too educational or too toy-like and, in the end, kids get little education and little fun. The Code Kit from LittleBits has changed my mind.
The Code Kit is very specifically targeted at classroom learning for grades 3-8 and costs $299. Why? Because it’s a bit more robust than the other coding kit LittleBits offers.
LittleBits is basically an electronics toolkit that consists of small components – batteries, speakers, switches – which connect together via powerful magnets. Things that connect will snap and stay together while things shouldn’t connect will repel each other. This means you can’t really short-circuit the limited power these kits have.
The Code Kit is an Arduino system in a box. It comes with a small rechargeable battery that can power an Arduino-based CodeBit with three inputs and three outputs. The CodeBot is wireless so you can program it via an included USB dongle.

Programming the CodeBit is as easy as dragging and dropping in Scratch. I gave it to my kids and they were able to assemble the initial projects in minutes and, once I showed them the code, they were able to modify it and create their own games a half an hour later. Any teacher with a passing knowledge of simple programming could be up and running with this kit in a few minutes.
The thing I like most about LittleBits is the design. While breadboarding is fun, these little bits snap together quickly and easily and the addition of the CodeBit adds a great deal of functionality. I’ve never really liked the electronics kits that LittleBits sold – they didn’t do enough to be fun and were too simple to be roundly educational – so something like this is a great step forward. It is, in short, the first LittleBits kit I’d recommend for learning IoT and basic programming.

While nothing beats a soldering iron and a broken stereo for learning the intricacies of electronics, LittleBits is finally reaching some level of utility and fun that could catapult it up to the dizzy heights of Heathkit and other classic electronics kits. Just don’t lick the 9 volt.
SpaceX’s Dragon capsule, which it launched on Saturday, June 3, has made its rendezvous with the International Space Station, as planned. The capsule, SpaceX’s first used cargo spacecraft reflown for an active mission, has around 6,000 lbs of supplies and materials on board for ISS crew and to support scientific experiments.
The Dragon craft launched from SpaceX’s Kennedy Space Center LC-39A facility on Saturday, aboard a Falcon 9 rocket, as the payload for its CRS-11 ISS resupply mission. During the launch, which was the first reflight of a reused Dragon craft as mentioned, SpaceX also recovered the Falcon 9 first stage it used to propel the craft to low-earth orbit.
Dragon separated from the rocket’s second stage shortly after launch, and then spent around 36 hours orbiting the Earth in order to get lined up and ready to dock with the ISS. Astronauts Peggy Whitson and Jack Fischer aboard the ISS captured the Dragon with the station’s Canadarm robotic appendage after a gradual approach sequence that started early on Monday morning, with the process beginning about 9 minutes ahead of schedule.
The Dragon craft will remain at the ISS for around one month, and then re-enter Earth’s atmosphere with a controlled de-orbit burn. SpaceX hopes to recover the capsule again after it splashes down in the Pacific Ocean off of Baja, so that it can refurbish it and reuse it for another future mission.
This is the 11th SpaceX ISS resupply mission, “which, if we follow the naming convention used by Prince, could be called ‘The artist formerly known as SpaceX 4,” Fischer joked, since it included use of the same Dragon capsule used on CRS-4 back in September, 2014.
NASA has greenlighted three of its teams of researchers to perform feasibility studies on projects that could pave the way for autonomous drones and self-driving cars to operate safely and effectively at scale. Many companies are investing both in self-flying drones and in driverless cars as future transportation technologies, but in order for these to become everyday options, there are a few things that need to be in place, and this research is aimed at making that possible.
The studies will focus on three areas, including certification of self-driving cars and Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS); the development of new verification tech to automatically ensure remotely piloted aircraft are fit to fly before every single trip; and using quantum computing combined with communication tech to make sure a “secure and jam-free network” exists for helping networks of hundreds of thousands of drones and vehicles communicate with each other safely and reliably each day.
These three studies were selected by a NASA team of aeronautics managers, after hearing a wide range of proposals. Each should take between 24 and 30 months to complete, respectively, and the purpose of the project is to find out whether these areas merit significant spend, and whether they’ll even be possible to address, regardless of investment and scale.
You can see why these projects were chosen – in the first case, the idea that most of these systems relied on closed learning algorithms that don’t necessarily offer a lot of transparency into how they achieve their decisions led NASA to want to explore whether “establish justifiable confidence in machine decisions,” with an eye towards creating an industry-wide certification system, might be possible. Pre-flight checks is another pretty obvious good for the field, as is a network that can’t be interrupted or shut down for communications between drones.
A future where the skies are filled with autonomous delivery drones and the roads are lined with self-driving cars is still a long way out, but this work by NASA could help it arrive sooner than expected.