
Who better to reveal the woman behind Lady Gaga -- removed from the meat dresses and crustacean headdresses and other trappings of her pop star persona -- than a filmmaker who once tried to shine a light on Banksy, the most elusive artist in recent history? In Gaga: Five Foot Two, now streaming on Netflix, documentarian Chris Moukarbel (Banksy Does New York) pulls back the curtain on the Haus of Gaga for a cinema vérité look at the life of Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta. ET spoke with Moukarbel, and in addition to discussing how he gained Gaga's trust, what still scares the singer and the postponement of her world tour due to complications of fibromyalgia, he explained how following Lady Gaga was a much different experience than chasing the shadow of Banksy."This was about feeling like you're in the present moment with her," Moukarbel said. “Not only do I avoid using much archival footage or going into her past, but just the style of filmmaking is really about putting you in the present and making you feel like you're on this journey with her."ET: I know that you met with Gaga's manager and then went to her home to film what ended up being the first scene in the movie. Did you have a chance to ever sit down with Gaga, to hash each other out or discuss what each of you wanted out of the documentary?Moukarbel: No. There was no real, formal preparation like that. I think it was discussed casually as we started, but she wasn't really setting out to make a documentary. It was something that was introduced by her manager and I had a concept that he thought was worth exploring with her. She was working on her record and, if anything, she was sort of reluctant because she didn't want cameras or anything to interfere with her writing process or studio sessions. She agreed to participate and felt intuitively that it was a good fit and that she felt safe with me, I think, but it wasn't like she was creatively overseeing this. In fact, it was quite the opposite. She really gave it a lot of space and didn't even really watch the film until the premiere.Do you know what it was about you that made her feel safe?I don't know. When people connect, you never really know what it is, exactly, that you see eye to eye on. I mean, she said that she'd seen some of my work and she really loved it. I just think she goes with her gut. She also knew she had a lot of agency. If for some reason, she was not happy with any of it, she would have ended it. But she let it grow sort of slowly and, by the time there was really a movie there, she had to kind of come to terms with the fact that that's what was happening. But it wasn't until her close friends had seen a cut of the film and told her that they loved it and told her why, it wasn't until then that she was really, like, 100 percent onboard, to be honest. [Laughs]Gaga seems to have been so open with you -- with her health, her friends and family, her creative process. Is there anything you wanted to shoot or that you hoped to have access to but didn't, for whatever reason?I have to say that I really didn't have the opportunity to produce anything. I thought that I would create more of these scenarios that I had wanted to see, but I figured out early on that for me to make this movie meant really going with her flow. I had production crew that, at the beginning, I wanted to bring in -- DPs, sound people -- but it just wouldn't work out like that. Either she didn't want the disruption while she was in the studio or it was too intimate or I was just grabbing my camera and running with her from the car to the plane to her grandmother's house. There was no time or opportunity to bring in any infrastructure, so I ended up shooting a lot of the film myself.What were some of the more produced ideas that you had going into filming?Like, I shot her production of the "Perfect Illusion" music video and it was shot out in the desert. They gave me unfettered access to that set, so I was able to bring a crew in for that, because there was so much production happening anyway. And I was able to shoot it in this big, splashy way that I thought would play in contrast to the more intimate scene in this film. But I did have these fantasies of having much more produced moments with her that I might cut in and out of the movie, where she's sitting in a makeup chair and the camera's right up on her face and then it's a drone shot that slowly pulls out and it's, like, up in the sky and she's a tiny little spec in the desert. More stylized moments. But they never felt right. It was never appropriate. So, you just give in sometimes when you're making documentaries and you realize you can't control the set-up. You're not writing, because it's not a scripted film. So, it's really just urging the universe along in the directions that you hope will lead to what you want to see in the movie.
        
      In terms of her agency over the content of the documentary, there is a moment early on, after talking about Madonna and what fame has done to various female celebrities, that Gaga turns to the camera and says, "You can't use any of that footage." Do you have to go back, show her the footage and clear that with her?Yeah. When she says it to the camera, she's kind of laughing and sort of means it as a joke. Like, a half-serious joke. She's basically punctuating what she said with, "I can’t believe I just said that on camera." But yes. Because she didn't end up watching the film and we didn't have to negotiate scenes and I didn’t get notes from her, we did show her a few -- what we thought were sensitive -- scenes. Like, that one for example or her doctor’s appointment scene, and just made sure that she understood what was in it and that she felt comfortable with having that in the film.Would she have opinions on how you presented those scenes then? Or would you show it to her and she'd be like, "Yeah, I said it. I did it. Use it."It was exactly like that. I didn't get notes from her, and I always expected that I would. We got to, like, the very bitter end and I was like, Oh my god, one day the other shoe is going to drop and I’m going to get all these notes and I’m going to have to negotiate why I believe in this or that. But it never happened. She really didn't watch the film until it was finished and then, you know, it was what it was. I think people underestimate how open she can be with an artistic project like this. She's always down for an artistic adventure and I think, for her, that's what this was.Especially seeing as how much conversation there has been around the Madonna comment, I wanted to know if you went into filming with a list of topics you wanted to ask her about or if she guided most of those on the fly interviews you have with her?I had very few conversations with her. And if you notice in that scene, that's not me leading that conversation. She's actually just talking to a studio musician that she's sitting outside having a cigarette with. Obviously, it's happening for and in front of my camera, but I didn't ask her any questions about it, and that was sort of my approach to this whole film. That's not to say I never asked her questions. There are times where she looks at the camera and she says something and I have a casual, on the fly conversation with her, and I realized early on that that was just going to happen, because she was not going to pretend like there wasn't a camera there. It's not like there was a fourth wall ever in this movie. It's not reality TV. I'm not pretending like these are just windows into her world. It's pretty honest that there is a camera following her around and she knows that there is a camera following her around and she doesn’t have the energy to pretend like there isn’t. Sometimes she would look at the camera and be like, "What did you think of that?" or whatever. It felt very real in that way.Was it hard to not chime in more in the moments when she was inviting you into the conversation?Yeah, I have to say that's one thing that was a challenge for me when I look back, was trying to keep myself as discreet as possible. [Laughs] Because you’re hanging out with these people in the studio and they’re really cool and they’re really funny and they’re writing music and they’re having all this banter and then sometimes they would pull me in or try to engage me. And, on the one hand, I didn’t want to seem like a creep who’s just, like, spying on them and is not a real human being. So, I would give a little bit of myself, but at the same time, I didn’t want anyone to be focused on me. I didn’t want to get in her head. I didn’t want her to think too much about what I was thinking. So, as much as possible, I really kept my thoughts and opinions to myself and really kept myself as much behind the scenes as possible.
        
      In the same vein, the movie deals extensively with Gaga's chronic pain. What was it like for you, as a director and just as a human being, having to stay behind the camera and continue recording during those moments? How do you remain detached, maybe, knowing that you can't step in to try to help someone you're seeing in pain?I think that’s exactly it, that you know that there's nothing you can do in that moment. She had people with her that were helping as best they could. It's something she struggles with often, so they do what they can. But it's obviously something that she can't cure herself of and part of why [she did the movie was] she wanted that stuff included. It's some of the only stuff she ever had a creative opinion on was making sure that storyline is in there. Because she's always looking for a positive message in anything she puts out, and she felt like other people who struggle with similar conditions will understand that, if in her place with all of the resources she has, she's still struggling, that obviously they're not alone. Yet, at the same time, she can kind of power through it and get herself up onstage. But it's hard to watch. It was really just, on a visceral level, hard to roll on it. But I knew that she would rather that I filmed it and that was all I could really do.Having been such an intimate audience to that pain, now that the doc is finished, have you been able to reach out to her and check in with her following news that she postponed her tour due to ongoing health issues?Yeah, I do. And, you know, there's nothing harder for her or someone like her than having to postpone shows. This is what she wants to do. It's what she lives and breathes. Obviously, she must have hit a wall in a certain way for her to have to do this at this point.One of the most intimate and moving scenes in the movie is when Gaga plays the song "Joanne" for her grandmother for the first time. [The track pays homage to Gaga's late aunt, Joanne, who died due to lupus at the age of 19.] What was it like to be in the room for that?It was really sweet. I wasn't expecting it. We were driving to the airport, her father was in the car and she just thought it would be a great time to visit her grandmother, because they were together and it was not far from the airport. So, they pulled over and got some flowers and sort of surprised her at her nursing home. And [Gaga] had this song that she had just finished recording, and it's about her aunt, Joanne, the daughter of this grandmother and she wanted to play it for her. It was the first time she played it for her. It was one of the first times her father heard it. It was just a very emotional family moment, because they're still -- to a certain extent -- dealing with this loss. If you think about it, when Gaga was born, it was a fresh family trauma and it was something that was overshadowing a lot of her childhood. So, she was very aware of the loss of this young woman and I think it really shaped her in a lot of ways.Another scene I want to ask about is coming out of the building to the paparazzi and fans screaming. It's just pandemonium. Even with a camera between you, what was it like to experience that?It's indescribable, and that's really why I wanted to include that scene and made it like a hall of mirrors moment, where you start flashing to all of the other times she's walked out into a crowd of paparazzis. Despite however many times she's done it and experiences it, on just a human level, there is a fight-or-flight trigger that goes off in your brain. I think it's really scary for her, having people clawing at her and having people scream at her. At a young age, it was probably more fun, but even then I think it was sort of traumatic. Now, I don't think it ever stops being scary for her.
        
      How did you land on the title? You use Guy Lombardo's record, "Five Foot Two, Eyes of Blue," in the scene where Gaga's goddaughter is baptized, but what was the process like of choosing it to title the movie?It was tough. I really struggled with figuring out what the title would be, and it was really near the end when I finally landed on that. It's a couple of things. It's her height, obviously. Then, even after I wanted to call it that, I found out there was this song from the '20s. We used the Guy Lombardo recording of it, but there are so many recordings of it. It just felt very serendipitous. But for me, it's like, so much of the film and the story circles around her body. It's about the limitations of her body and the expectations placed on her body. She's an athlete in a lot of ways and has to perform the way an athlete does. Her physical form is really the limitation of how far she can take it, and yet, she's able to be so much bigger than that, so much more than that. So, thinking about her persona and her achievements and her legacy, and then also imagining that this is really, like, a human being that takes up that much space.You mentioned at the beginning of our conversation that Gaga didn't see the movie before the premiere and, at TIFF, she told us that that screening would be her first time watching it. What reaction did she have when she'd finally seen it?It was really sweet afterward. She looked at me in the eyes, she was crying a little. She just thanked me. She knew that it would be emotional for her. She knew what was in the film. I mean, she was there as it was being made. [Laughs] So, she knew what I captured, but I don't think she had any idea of what the overall effect would be, and I think it really moved her. It was just a sweet moment.You followed Gaga for eight months filming this. Do you know how many hours of footage you have in total?I really don't. I mean, definitely hundreds and hundreds of hours, and to distill that into 100 minutes is tough. There's a lot that you lose, but at the same time, I don't feel like there was any real important moment or scene that I wasn't able to include. A lot of times, you're cutting repeats of things. Like, you're getting at the same thing in a lot of different ways and you realize, "OK, I can communicate this or I can capture this through a shorter, more focused scene, rather than all these others ways."There's a lot of studio stuff that I wasn't able to use. I shot a lot -- I would say half of the film was shot during her time in the studio and it only makes up maybe 15-20 percent of the film, if that. So, it starts to become redundant, even though I think it's fascinating and I think other people would find it really interesting, too, watching her work. At some point, you kind of see that side of her life and there are so many other facets of her life that you want to leave the real-estate in the movie to get to that other stuff.There's a great bit in the end credits where Gaga jokes about the "night she gave Beyoncé a panic attack," which I wanted to know everything about. Seeing how you had so much footage and especially because you were working with Netflix, was there ever discussion about turning this into a docu-series?Not for me, at least. I felt really strongly that there was a very focused film here. And, again, not going into her past or going outside of the frame, really just looking at what was going on in her life for that specific period of time. It felt like there was a story to tell. So, I really wanted to keep it within the film format.Having spent all this time with Gaga, what is one way in which she is exactly like everybody else, just any ordinary person? And the opposite of that: what is one way she is, as an internationally beloved pop star, so completely different than the rest of us?I'd say the one thing that makes her, to me, very familiar and very human is just her way of interacting with the people around her after she does something like perform or does an interview. She looks for approval from her family and her friends, and you'd be surprised that she still would, after everything that she's done. But there's something really innocent and sweet about it. Like, she's asking, "How was that? How was I? How did I sound?" That was surprising. I thought it was charming.And then her work ethic is like nothing I've ever seen. She's obviously incredibly creative, she's brilliant, she's super talented in all these different ways, but where I differ from her and what cured me of any fantasy that I could ever become a pop star is when you realize how hard she's working every second of the day and how little personal downtime she's able to have for herself. She's taking in and putting out so much energy all the time and has been for decades. I think that's what kind of separates her out. It's like being a star athlete.EXCLUSIVE: Lady Gaga Talks Involvement in 'Gaga: Five Foot Two': I Can't 'Be Objective About Myself'


Photo: NBC  
Alicia Keys is standing by Chris Blue. The "Blended Family" singer may not be returning for the 13th season of The Voice, kicking off Monday and Tuesday at 8 p.m. ET/PT, but she is keeping last season's winner in the family. Blue tells ET that Keys is currently serving as his manager and lending her expertise to his debut album. "She's had her hand in everything, to be honest," he said in an interview on ET Live. "We're writing together, she's producing, I'm trying to get her on a track -- we'll see what happens. But I won't complain! She's producing, she's writing, I'm good with that." It's been just over three months since Blue took the top prize on The Voice, scoring a recording contract with Republic. Since then, he's been hard at work in the studio and adjusting to life as a newlywed! Blue married his longtime girlfriend, Stephanie Dunkley, in London this summer. EXCLUSIVE: How Chris Blue Is Aiming to Be the First 'The Voice' Superstar"It was incredible," he said of the celebration, but admitted that it didn't all go out without a hitch. "I was an hour late," he confessed. "I decided when I got to London, I wanna drive, so I started driving ... at nighttime, it's a bit harder. I parked in a bus lane and I woke up, and my car was gone. Yeah, they towed the car, man." But Blue couldn't just call a taxi to get him to his wedding... "It wasn't my car, it was her dad's car," he said. "I didn't have a choice. I had to go get the car out or else it wouldn't have gone down." Blue played coy on whether he'll make an appearance on The Voice's upcoming season, in which Blake Shelton, Adam Levine, Miley Cyrus and Jennifer Hudson are serving on the coaches panel, but he did have a prediction for who will take the crown. "I'm gonna go with Miley or Blake -- but my gut is telling me Adam, for some reason," he said. And when it comes to the artists competing each week, Blue's best advice is to stay calm. "Enjoy it, have fun. Don't overthink, don't overanalyze," he said. "Be present, be in the moment. Everything will fall into place. I was a nervous wreck ... This is something that happens once in a lifetime and it's an experience that you'll never forget. Once it's over, it's over and all you have to live with are the memories that you have and the experience that you've shared with the people there." See the full interview below. 


Kelly Clarkson's decision to become a judge on The Voice in 2018 comes down to family.ET sat down with the 35-year-old singer on Thursday, when she explained taking the NBC gig despite getting discovered on rival show American Idol. "Think of how I felt," Clarkson joked to ET's Kevin Frazier about fans' reaction to the surprising choice. "[But] I've been in talks with The Voice about doing stuff for years. It's a family decision too, for us. Like, my husband [Brandon Blackstock] manages Blake [Shelton] so we're all in one place and it's going to be good. And I'm excited, ya'll."Clarkson also said she and American Idol host Ryan Seacrest have no hard feelings towards one another. Kelly Clarkson Says She Lost 'Millions' Because She Didn't Want to Be Associated With Dr. Luke"I had to interview with Ryan Seacrest recently, it was so weird," she shared. "We've never been on, like, opposing networks and so it was funny. We had a good laugh about it."Of course, Clarkson said she'll be cheering on fellow Idol alum Jennifer Hudson's debut as a Voice coach on Monday night's season 13 premiere. "I love her," Clarkson gushed. "I love, first of all, just the confidence that she has, and I had so much fun with her."She also acknowledged her and Hudson's advantages when it comes to judging a singing competition."I think there is a difference being one of the contestants previously on a show like this," she noted. "I think that does carry weight."As for her own Idol win in 2002, she revealed she was actually hoping to get second place -- but not for the reasons one might think!"I don't like to lose, let's be real," she stressed. "The reason why I didn't is because I found out, Justin [Guarini] and I both found out that last week, that whoever won had to do this movie."She's of course referring to 2003's From Justin to Kelly."Ain't no Meryl Streep here, I was like, 'Nope,'" Clarkson recalled, adding that she cried constantly on set. "I hated it.""I obviously tried to put my best foot forward, it's just, like, that's my best foot forward," she continued with a laugh. "This is it."These days, she still has a sense of humor about the film."Even my nanny loves it," she shared. "I'm like, 'If you show my child that, you are fired.'"Clarkson has definitely come a long way since her Idol days and is gearing up for her highly anticipated album, Meaning of Life, out Oct. 27."This album is literally the chapter of my life, that is, I'm blessed, man," Clarkson said. "I love my life and it definitely bleeds through this album."The singer couldn't be more content with her husband and their two kids, 3-year-old daughter River and 1-year-old son Remi."I'm very strict," she says of her parenting style. "You're going to get it done or you're going to go get in trouble. Our nannies too -- we're strict on them making sure they're strict on our kids. I don't want ... they're already super privileged, y'all!"Kelly Clarkson's Adorable Kids Come Visit Their Mom on Set of 'Love So Soft' Music VideoStill, she hilariously admitted to having trouble letting go of River when she recently started school."I'm going to be real with you, you're going to judge me and I'm fine with this, buut I constantly think of Dateline specials, like, something is going to happen to my baby if I'm not there," she shared. "I full on have panic attack dreams up until dropping her off at school.""It was the most gratifying experience to drop your kids off and her be like, 'Bye,'" she later noted. "But at the same time, I want you to need me a little."  For more on how Clarkson's husband has inspired her new music -- specifically, how Blackstock makes her feel sexy -- watch the video below!EXCLUSIVE: Kelly Clarkson on How Her Husband Inspired New Music: 'He Makes Me Feel So Sexy'


Looks likeAmerican Idolis getting some country charm!Luke Bryan will reportedly be a judge on the reality singing show's revival, Variety was first to report.The 41-year-old country singer will join Katy Perry as the show makes its debut on a new network, ABC, with filming set to begin next March.MORE: Katy Perry Says She’d Wants These 2 Stars to Judge With Her on ‘American Idol’With two names reportedly attached, more speculation has gone on as to who else will be tapped to judge, from Charlie Puth to music legend Lionel Richie.A source tells ET that Richie would be interested in signing on if the timing was right, noting the 68-year-old artist may need to adjust next year's touring schedule to make it work.EXCLUSIVE: 'Idol' Reunion! Simon Cowell Says He's Grateful to Kelly Clarkson at 'AGT' Finale Watch the video below for more on the celeb judge rumors.Luke Bryan, Lionel Richie and Charlie Puth Reportedly Up for 'American Idol' Gig  Related GalleryThe Complete List of 'American Idol' Winners


Looks like a pretty little spinoff is in the works!Freeform has picked up a pilot for Pretty Little Liars: The Perfectionists, based off of the popular young adult book series, The Perfectionists, written by PLL author Sara Shepard. Sasha Pieterse and Janel Parrish are set to reprise their roles as Alison and Mona, respectively.EXCLUSIVE: Sasha Pieterse on Bringing 'PLL' into the 'DWTS' Ballroom and Why She Joined the Show!"At Freeform, we are committed to delivering shows that push boundaries and become a part of our viewers' lives. Pretty Little Liars was a cultural phenomenon so it's no wonder fans wanted more," said Karey Burke, executive vice president of programming and development for Freeform. "We can't wait to continue Marlene King's rich and revolutionary storytelling with a new crop of leading ladies from Beacon Heights who will hold just as many secrets and lies as Rosewood did."Added Pretty Little Liars showrunner Marlene King, "I'm beyond excited to continue my collaboration with Sara Shepard, Alloy, Freeform and Warner Horizon. I can’t wait to introduce our fans — and Sasha and Janel — to a new world of thrills and chills in Beacon Heights."When ET spoke with King shortly before the Pretty Little Liars finale in June, the executive producer teased a Perfectionists spinoff, saying, it "could be in the same universe or feel like a similar universe." She added, "I would love to be honest about everything but it's still a little too early. [Sara and I] love working together, so hopefully we can do many more things together."Pieterse is currently competing for the coveted mirrorball trophy on the current season of Dancing With the Stars alongside Gleb Savchenko.EXCLUSIVE: 'Pretty Little Liars' Star Sasha Pieterse Dishes on Joining 'DWTS'!"I'm really glad to be a part of this season," Pieterse told ET. "They asked me, like, I'd say three or four years ago and I wasn't able to do it. Scheduling was a nightmare and they said that they'd come back around. And they came back around, which was so awesome and this is the 25th season!"For more on the new DWTS contestant, watch the clip below!EXCLUSIVE: Sasha Pieterse 'Bummed' By Performance on 'DWTS' Season 25 Premiere: 'It Wasn't My Best'


Photo: Getty Images  
Thomas Rhett isn't like a regular dad -- he's a cool dad. The 27-year-old country star and wife Lauren welcomed two baby girls amid a banner year for his career. Rhett's been busy on his headlining Home Team tour since March and just last week became the first country act this year to top the all-genre Billboard 200 chart. "I was really surprised," Rhett tells ET. "I think as an artist, anytime you put a record out, you're just like, 'I hope people like it.' And so when you see your record go No. 1 and stay there for an entire week, that was just a huge feat for me and the team. I'm just so happy for the writers and the people that played on the record because we put a lot of hard work into this record." When it comes to picking favorites, Rhett says that wife Lauren is a fan of "Sweetheart," while 1-year-old Willa Gray gravitates towards the EDM-flavored "Leave Right Now." Rhett also couldn't help but gush over the adorable thing that Willa Gray does when she hears dad's singles on the radio. "Whenever she hears 'Craving You' or 'Unforgettable,' she says 'Daddy! Daddy!' It's the sweetest thing in the world," Rhett beamed. ET caught up with Rhett at his fashion pop-up shop in Los Angeles, featuring collaborations with Daniel Patrick, MadeWorn, New Era caps and his personal stylist, Kemal Harris. While he hasn't yet ventured into baby and toddler fashion -- "We should have made a onesie!" he laughed -- he did open up about how much fun he's had teaching his eldest daughter about fashion and how he's balancing parenthood with a demanding career. See the full interview on Friday, Sept. 29, on ET's "Certified Country," which runs every Friday on ET's YouTube and Facebook pages. In the meantime, you can check out all the latest episodes -- including, most recently, a hilarious game of emojis with Dustin Lynch -- here.


Photo: Getty Images  
No charges will be filed against Audrina Patridge's estranged husband, Corey Bohan, after the former Hills star filed a domestic abuse case against him, ET has learned.Patridge called the Irvine Police Department on Sept. 6 after she stated in court papers that Bohan had been harassing her. After the investigation, the evidence was presented to the Orange County District Attorney’s office which, after review, rejected the case.“The prosecutor reviewed all of the information provided by the Irvine Police Department and, unfortunately, the prosecutor did not feel that they would be able to prove the case beyond a reasonable doubt," a spokesperson for the Orange County District Attorney’s office told ET on Monday.Patridge's rep tells ET in a statement, "Audrina is putting on a brave face, but these exchanges between Audrina and Corey are court ordered to take place at a police station for her protection. There is still a family law domestic violence case open."Corey Bohan Responds to Audrina Patridge's Restraining Order as She Requests He Be Forced Out of Their HomePatridge and Bohan tied the knot last November after dating on and off since 2008, and share 1-year-old daughter, Kirra. Patridge filed for divorce on Wednesday, citing irreconcilable differences, and listed her and Bohan's date of separation as Sept. 6. According to court documents obtained by ET, two days prior to filing for divorce, Patridge requested a temporary restraining order against the Australian BMX rider for an alleged domestic violence incident. A judge in Orange County, California, granted Patridge's request, ordering Bohan to stay 100 yards away from her. Bohan was granted monitored visitation of Kirra, and their next hearing is set for Oct. 6."Audrina’s No. 1 priority is her daughter and she asks for privacy at this time," Patridge's rep told ET at the time. On Saturday, the 32-year-old reality star broke her silence about the divorce drama, posting a video of Kirra on Instagram."Light of my life. This little beauty lights up the room wherever she is!" she wrote. "I appreciate all your thoughts & messages, this is a difficult time but we are doing ok xoxo."Audrina Patridge 'Leaning on Support of Her Family' Following Divorce FilingWatch the video below for more on Patridge and Bohan's split.Audrina Patridge Files For Divorce From Corey Bohan After Less Than One Year of Marriage


Photo: Vevo  
Fergie is putting her son Axl to “a little work!”The songstress revealed the music video for her new single, “A Little Work,” on Monday and the elaborate visual features an adorable cameo from Axl, the singer’s 4-year-old son with estranged husband Josh Duhamel.Sporting a shirt reading “Rolling with the homies,” a bright yellow jacket and hip, high-top sneakers, the cutie looks cooler than ever walking out of a church hand in hand with his mom, before the pair share a sweet smooch.And just check out the little blondie’s gorgeous smile!EXCLUSIVE: Fergie Still Has 'So Much Love' For Josh Duhamel: 'We're Just Not a Romantic Couple Anymore'
        Photo: Vevo
      A Little Work by Fergie on VEVO.The track is the first single from Fergie’s new album, Double Dutchess,  and the 11-minute video is interspersed with clips of the singer sharing intimate details about experiencing feelings of fear, panic and being watched. It is unclear whether the statements are based on her own life, however, she has previously spoken about battling drug addiction before joining the Black Eyed Peas.“I got to a point where I was seeing devils everywhere. Devil faces,” she says, while footage of her stumbling down the street is shown. “Creatures that would appear to me would say, ‘Fly, fly, fly.’ I would constantly be in this state of listening to the messages that all of these creatures... what they were going to tell me. What their messages were and what I should do and life became almost like this whole game."'I was just going to lose it,” she continues. “I was about to start screaming at everybody in the street. I ended up on Wilshire and I saw this church…”The GRAMMY winner is then shown entering a church and continues to tell stories in the video, including how journaling helped her deal with difficult moments..“I have journals of it all and I remember writing to myself throughout that period of my life,” she says. “It’s how I can divulge my true feelings because it’s been difficult to trust, for me, in my life, so the paper is always where I could emotionally get to those crevices -- those little corners of feelings. I’m so glad I did it because at least I was checking in with myself, at least I knew that I was becoming a f**k up.”“I had to really work hard at telling the spirit, the vision, to go away,” she adds. “I had to say out loud, ‘Leave me alone, I choose the good.’ It was this epiphany I had in the holy war of good against evil.”EXCLUSIVE: Fergie on How Beyonce Inspired Her New Visual Album: 'She Is the Queen B'The video ends with the beautiful scenes starring Axl, with Fergie’s voiceover detailing how leaving the church was like “walking into the light.”
"That walk out of there -- all of that demon that was there, it all of a sudden just lifted,” she says. “It was almost like walking into the light. I realized that I finally needed to honor myself and that is really still a challenging place that I often have to work on to this day.”The video comes a day after Fergie shared a clip of her fun “date night” with Axl at the Broadway production of Aladdin in New York City.EXCLUSIVE: Fergie Recalls Being 'Totally Nervous' to Kiss Milo Ventimiglia in 'Big Girls Don't Cry' VideoThe mother-son duo has been enjoying quality time together following recent confirmation that the singer split from Duhamel in February.
"We're great friends, Josh and I, there's so much love that we have for each other," she explained to ET during an exclusive interview on Wednesday. "We really like each other, we have fun with each other. We're just not a romantic couple anymore."See more from the interview below.EXCLUSIVE: Fergie Talks Split From Josh Duhamel: 'We're Just Not a Romantic Couple Anymore'  Related GalleryLook Back at Fergie & Josh Duhamel's Cutest Family Photos


There's a lot of history being made on the charts this week!Taylor Swift's reign atop the Billboard 100 chart ended this week, as "Look What You Made Me Do" was dethroned by rapper Cardi B's infectious trap hit, "Bodak Yellow," making the 24-year-old songwriter the first unaccompanied female hip-hop artist to top the chart since Lauryn Hill in 1998 with "Doo Wop (That Thing)."Cardi got emotional in a video shared to Instagram thanking her fans and artists who congratulated her, captioning, "THANK YOU THANK THANK YOU ,I haven’t even showered son with all the running around😩😩😩😩I loveee you all each and everybody contributed for this .Ya made it happen for me !!!!! The number 1 WAY!!"
(WARNING: NSFW language in her post).EXCLUSIVE: Bebe Rexha Fangirls Over Cardi B and Sings 'Bodak Yellow' -- Watch!Cardi's fellow rapper, Missy Elliott took to Twitter to congratulate her on her achievement, writing, "Congratulations @iamcardib for having a #1 record in the country that's not as easy as it seem this huge May u have continued blessings."Nicki Minaj also tweeted out in support, writing, "Congratulations to a fellow NEW YAWKA on a RECORD BREAKING achievement. Bardi, this is the only thing that matters!!! Enjoy it @iamcardib."Congratulations, Cardi!In addition to her achievement, K-Pop sensation BTS also have some celebrating to do this week. The boy band's album, Love Yourself: Her, debuted at No. 7 on the Billboard 200 album chart, making them the first K-pop group ever to crack the top 10.MORE: Cardi B Suffers Wardrobe Malfunction While Presenting Demi Lovato On Stage at 2017 VMAs"We did it !! Just heard it from studio thank you soooo much for everything aRMy XD," the band tweeted in reaction to the news. "And teamwork makes the dream work."MORE: BTS: Everything You Need to Know About the K-Pop Boy Band Ready to Take Over the WorldIt seems another round of congrats are in order for Rap Monster and all seven BTS boys!Watch the video below to see one of Cardi B's fans, singer Bebe Rexha, gush over her to ET at the MTV Video Music Awards.EXCLUSIVE: Bebe Rexha Fangirls Over Cardi B and Sings 'Bodak Yellow' -- Watch!  Related GalleryCraziest Looks From the 2017 MTV VMAs


Staying 100 percent healthy is already proving to be a challenge for this season's Dancing With the Stars contestants.During only the second week of official competition, both Drew Scott and Vanessa Lachey suffered painful dancing injuries during rehearsals, and both moments were caught on camera. In 39-year-old Scott's case, his injury occurred as he was swinging partner Emma Slater on the dance floor."I felt, like, a knot pop in my hamstring," he says as he abruptly stops the move and begins to limp. "It felt like a snap.""Right now I can't bend my leg or put weight on it, so, I don't know what we're going to do for tomorrow," he later tells a clearly disappointed Slater. "So annoying!"'Dancing With the Stars' Week 2 Preview: Who Are the Frontrunners? Who's Going Home?!However, Scott seemed to take it all in stride in an Instagram post early Monday morning, hilariously sharing a snap of himself getting ready for Monday night's show in his undies."Soooo.. @theemmaslater said I needed a spray tan to bring out my #sexy for Latin night...be careful what you ask for! #TeamHotProperty #DWTS," he wrote.As for Lachey, she suffered a bloody toe while dancing with partner Maksim Chmerkovskiy, which Chmerkovskiy shared on Instagram."That is gonna be so painful, this hurts my soul," Chmerkovskiy says as Lachey winces in pain. As he bandages her bloody toe, the mother of three cries tears of pain."I'm sorry, this is not nice," Chmerkovskiy comments. The pro dancer praised his resilient partner on Instagram."I guess after childbirth what’s a little piece of meat and half of toe nail hanging out of off the tip of your big toe while you’re running out of time trying to prepare two dances for Monday and Tuesday on @dancingabc?" Chmerkovskiy wrote. "[She put on her shoes five minutes later and we kept running the dance]."Despite her injury, a DWTS rep tells ET that Lachey is definitely still dancing on Monday night's show. Lachey and Chmerkovskiy debuted strong last week, landing in second place on the leaderboard, while unfortunately, Scott and Slater placed third from last. Nick Lachey & Peta Murgatroyd Face Off Against Vanessa Lachey & Maks Chmerkovskiy in 'DWTS' PremiereET spoke to Scott after the show, where he said he hopes to impress judge Len Goodman this time around."I know Len loves the details," he explained. "And I'm that same kinda guy, so is Emma, so that's just something, you know, each week, it's going to get a little better.""We're going to really impress Len with what I can do with my height and my clean feet," he added. "There's so much I'm learning. It's like a mind mill right now, getting all this new information I've never had, but I'm loving it."Meanwhile, ET spoke with DWTS season 24 champ Rashad Jennings after last Monday night's season 25 premiere, where he jokingly admitted that he was jealous his partner -- Slater -- was dancing with another man!Watch below: 'DWTS' Season 24 Champion Rashad Jennings 'Jealous' Emma Slater Is Dancing With Another Man!


Photo: Getty Images  
Kane Brown is showing off his sweet side. The 23-year-old "What Ifs" singer professes his love for fiancee Katelyn Jaeon the new deluxe edition of his self-titled debut, out Oct. 6, featuring the new track "What's Mine Is Yours." In a teaser for the love song, Brown shares adorable home footage with his real-life love. Only ET has your exclusive look at the clip -- watch below! "Last year when my album came out, it was a look at my life story and people that influenced me and shaped me up until that point," Brown tells ET. "Less than a year later, I get to stand next to the person I love and call her my fiancee. This song and all the new songs are an extension of where my life has been since Kane Brown came out, and that updated story includes being with K and where I am now." The deluxe album features four brand new tracks, including "Heaven," "Found You" and the Chris Young collaboration, "Setting the Night on Fire." As for wedding planning -- the couple is currently enjoying their engagement and has yet to set an official date for their nuptials. Country Star Kane Brown Is Engaged to Katelyn JaeBack in January, Brown opened up about the relationship in an interview with ET's Kevin Frazier."She's a sweet girl. ... You know, being on the road, we did 200 shows in 2016. You get lonely," he confessed. "Whenever she's out with me, I just have a good time. And she makes me happy. I'm never depressed when she's around me.""It used to be [hard having a girlfriend], but now it feels better being loyal than you just going out and doing whatever you want to do," he continued. "You could do the same thing every day with different people, but they're not gonna love you -- you're not gonna find love, so you might as well keep the one that does love you."EXCLUSIVE: How Kane Brown Went From Homeless to Country Music's Next Big Thing




Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are done keeping their relationship under wraps.The 33-year-old royal and the 36-year-old Suits actress attended a wheelchair tennis match together during the 2017 Invictus Games on Monday in Toronto, Canada, where they were snapped holding hands. Although the couple technically made their first public appearance together at the Invictus Games' opening ceremony on Saturday, this is the first time the two have openly shown PDA in front of the cameras. 
        Photo: Getty Images
      Clearly, Harry and Meghan couldn't look happier together. They enthusiastically enjoyed the tennis match as well, with Harry continuously whispering into his gal's ear.Prince Harry Is All Smiles During First Public Appearance in Girlfriend Meghan Markle's Hometown
        Photo: Getty Images
      
        Photo: Getty Images
      Meghan looked chic as ever, wearing a white button-up shirt, skinny jeans and flats, as she and her beau casually strolled hand-in-hand.On Saturday, Markle was similarly gorgeous at the opening ceremony for the annual event for wounded veterans, sporting a burgundy leather jacket and a long dress. However, she and Harry sat four rows apart.Watch the video below to see Markle's stunning appearance.Meghan Markle Attends Boyfriend Prince Harry's Third Annual Invictus Games


Photo: MEGA  
Angelina Jolie is stunning even while doing everyday tasks.The 42-year-old director was snapped at Gelson's Markets in Los Feliz, California, on Sunday, perusing the aisles with a smile on her face. Jolie looked chic in a floor-length black coat and nude heels as she pushed her own cart, wearing her hair down in a voluminous 'do.
        Photo: MEGA
      According to an eyewitness, Jolie bought fresh produce, bottled frappuccino, instant noodle soup, organic eggs and also fake moustache stickers presumably for her children -- Maddox, Pax, Zahara, Shiloh, and twins Vivienne and Knox. She also purchased the latest issues of National Geographic and Marie Claire. Angelina Jolie Calls Her Children Her 'Best Friends': 'It's a Nice Life'In her Vanity Fair tell-all from July, Jolie said she was taking cooking classes at the request of her children."I'm just wanting to make the proper breakfast and keep the house. That's my passion," Jolie said about her current priorities. "At the request of my kids, I'm taking cooking classes. As I go to sleep at night, I think, 'Did I do a great job as a mom or was that an average day?'"She also talked about learning how to cook in an interview with the Sunday Telegraph earlier this month.
“Cooking is one of those things you do when you are settled in your life and you can take the time," she mused. "But, somehow I am just very impatient and I am a little bit erratic. But, I am getting into it now. I feel like, if I cook, the kids can all hang out. Although, they often take over and tell me that they can do it better.”Angelina Jolie's Father Jon Voight Shows Up to Support Her at NYC PremiereJolie was joined by all of her children at the First They Killed My Father premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival earlier this month, where she told ET why her kids were "having a laugh" as she did interviews.Watch below!EXCLUSIVE: Angelina Jolie Adorably Reveals Why Her Kids Were Laughing Before TIFF Red Carpet


Photo: Bob Levey/Getty Images  
It's clear why Kylie Jenner and Travis Scott want to have a baby together!The 25-year-old rapper was professing his love for the 19-year-old reality star weeks before news of her pregnancy broke, according to a backstage moment observed during a feature interview of Scott by Rolling Stone."I just got offstage," Scott reportedly told Jenner over Facetime. "I miss you. I love you."MORE: Meet Travis Scott: From Kanye West's Protege to Father of Kylie Jenner's BabyET learned on Friday that Jenner and Scott are expecting a baby girl, with a source adding that the reality star "is doing well and is happy.""Kylie always wanted to be a young mom," the source says. "She may be young, but she's very maternal and has lots of practice with babies! She's a very hands-on aunt and was basically a stepmom to Tyga's kid."MORE: Kylie Jenner Covers Up Her Baby Bump at Boyfriend Travis Scott's Vegas Performance: PicsDespite all the reports, Jenner is still "not confirming" anything, Kris Jenner told Ryan Seacrest on Monday.The keen "momager" cleverly dodged the question when asked to respond to pregnancy reports by The Hollywood Reporterover the weekend, replying, "It wouldn't be the family if something didn't happen every single day."MORE: Did Travis Scott Rap About Getting Kylie Jenner Pregnant?Meanwhile, Scott spent the weekend in Miami with another Kardashian-Jenner family father over the weekend.Watch the video below for more.EXCLUSIVE: Travis Scott Seen Partying With Scott Disick in Miami Amid Kylie Jenner Pregnancy News  Related GalleryKylie Jenner's Sexiest Instagram Shots


Photo: NBC / Focus Features / NBC / CBS  
Here at ET, we’re obsessed with a lot of things – and this is what we’re most excited about this week:Why We’re Obsessed With Judi Dench For the second time in 20 years, Dame Judi Dench is tasked with portraying Queen Victoria—this time in Stephen Frears’ Victoria and Abdul, an unofficial sequel to her Oscar-nominated turn in Mrs. Brown, about the friendship between an Indian Muslim functionary and the monarch of England. Her portrayal is earning her rave reviews, which will certainly mean more of Dench during awards season as she promotes the Oscar-bait film and the upcoming star-studded mystery, Murder on the Orient Express, which is in theaters on Nov. 10. Already, she’s rapped with British grime star Lethal Bizzle and been quite cheeky in interviews, revealing she’s mooned Harvey Weinstein, has a tattoo on her bum and that she’s crushing on Johnny Depp. Bow down!Victoria and Abdul is now in theaters. MORE: Fall TV -- Love It, Date It or Leave It?Why We’re Obsessed With Iain Armitage on ‘Young Sheldon’ After stealing scenes as the (slightly) creepy but sweet Ziggy Chapman on Big Little Lies, budding actor Iain Armitage has been popping up everywhere, including TheGlass Castle and Netflix’s Our Souls at Night. But his big breakthrough moment comes as the star of the Big Bang Theory spinoff, Young Sheldon, taking over the titular role as the 9-year-old version of Sheldon Cooper. And Armitage comes fully approved by Jim Parsons, who says the actor’s audition tape was “mind-blowing.” “There was a natural-ness with it and a spirit with it, and an understanding of [the charater],” he told ET.Young Sheldon premieres Sept. 25 at 8:30 p.m. ET on CBS.MORE: Meet the 9 Breakout TV Stars You Need to Know!Why We’re Obsessed With ‘This Is Us’  The hit drama, starring Sterling K. Brown, who recently won an Emmy for playing Randall Pearson, may have been on hiatus for over six months, but our unanswered questions are still fresh in our minds. We can barely wait to see what the season premiere has in store for us. What clues will be dropped on how the Pearson patriarch died? Why does Kate claim it was her fault? How is Randall coping with the loss of his father, sadly for the second time in his life? While we know we’ll need to keep a tissue box close by, we really just can’t wait to see the family and their milestone moments back on our small screen.  This Is Us premieres Sept. 26 at 9 p.m. ET on NBC.MORE: 7 Returning Favorites That Will Look Very Different This Year Why We’re Obsessed With the Return of ‘Will & Grace’  While it’s easy to get cynical or overwhelmed by all the current and upcoming reboots and revivals, Will & Grace probably has us the most excited since Gilmore Girls returned with a mini-season on Netflix. The continuation, which has already been renewed for a second season, sees the return of Will (Eric McCormack), Grace (Debra Messing), Jack (Sean Hayes) and Karen (Megan Mullally), as the gang picks up where things left off—well, sort of. The show will ignore the debated series finale and focus on a reset timeline that now includes Donald Trump in the White House, a feminist Grace and more sexualized gay characters. “We're back to the four of us, which is really where it all began and where the magic sort of lives,” Messing recently told ET. On top of that, fans can now catch up on the entire series—all 194 episodes—before the new episodes air thanks to Hulu. After years in syndication, Will & Grace is finally streaming online.Will & Grace premieres Sept. 28 at 9 p.m. ET on NBC.MORE: The Women Behind Fall 2017’s Best TVWhy We’re Obsessed With ‘Make Up or Break Up’As Facebook cranks out new, original series on the platform Watch,  a few have caught our eye, including the scripted dramedy Strangers, the docuseries Humans of New York  and the real-time dating show Make Up or Break Up. Hosted by Shan Boodram, the show uses the “wisdom of the crowd,” with viewers weighing in to determine if couples should stick it out or let it go. And so far, in the show’s first three episodes (of its six-episode run), two of the couples have been advised to break up. Maybe the audience is scorned by love or all those engagement photos on their feed, or maybe those couples just weren’t right for each other. Either way, it’s not the craziest dating show we’ve seen.Make Up or Break Up streams live Thursdays on Facebook Watch.--Additional writing by Rachel Maresca Related Gallery'This Is Us': Adorable Behind-the-Scenes Pics From Season 2


Photo: Frazer Harrison/Getty Images  
Looks like Kevin Hart and his wife, Eniko Parrish, are just fine after the comedian was caught up in an extortion and cheating scandal earlier this month.
 
A source tells ET that the couple is keeping a united front after the 38-year-old Jumanji star was allegedly targeted by an extortionist claiming to have a sexually incriminating video of Hart. Hart later took to Instagram, where he apologized to his wife and kids for his "bad error and judgment.""Kevin and Eniko have moved past this," the source says. "Eniko is fine. She thought it was going to be worse." The source says Parrish never thought of leaving Hart. Kevin Hart Extortion Scandal: Woman Involved Says She Is Also a Victim, Did Not Attempt to Extort Him"Absolutely not," the source says when it comes to whether or not there was any talk of divorce, adding that Parrish was supporting her husband. According to the source, the two are now focusing on moving forward and anticipating the arrival of their baby. In fact, an extravagant baby shower is in the works. "Eniko does everything big," the source explains. "And her shower is no exception."Eniko Parrish Steps Out For First Time Since Extortion Scandal as Kevin Hart Returns to SetLast week, Montia Sabbag, the woman who alleged to have spent time with Hart in his hotel room last month in Las Vegas, told her side of the story in a press conference. Sabbag said she was also a victim, and did not attempt to extort Hart. ET later talked to her attorney, Lisa Bloom, who further claimed that "Montia had a brief, intimate relationship" with Hart.Bloom also gave "disturbing" details of the alleged video that was taken of Hart and Sabbag in his hotel room.Watch below:EXCLUSIVE: Lisa Bloom Reveals Alleged Details of 'Disturbing' Kevin Hart Extortion Tape


Photo: Getty Images  
Jimmy Kimmel's wife, Molly McNearney, is fighting back.Last week, the 49-year-old late-night host devoted multiple monologues to his fight to save the Affordable Care Act, a cause he's been outspoken about after his own son Billy's struggles with congenital heart disease. Of course, not everyone agrees with Kimmel, and has had no problem expressing it on social media. On Monday, McNearney had a message for the haters."My baby has a hole in his heart," she tweeted. "My dad lives in Puerto Rico. If you think a nasty tweet will shake me, you are mistaken. Beat it, trolls."Jimmy Kimmel's Healthcare Monologues: The 11 Most Emotional MomentsIn one of his monologues last week, Kimmel said he was politicizing his son's health problems for the sake of others who will be affected if the Affordable Care Act is repealed."My family has health insurance, we don't have to worry about this," Kimmel said bluntly. "But other people do, so you can shove your disgusting comments where your doctor won't be giving you a prostate exam once they take your healthcare benefits away."Jimmy Kimmel Brings 5-Month-Old Son Billy to L.A. Fundraiser Event -- See the Adorable Family Pics!ET spoke with both Kimmel and McNearney at the Emmys last Sunday, where they gave an update on 5-month-old Billy."It's been a rough start with Billy, but he’s doing great," McNearney said. "He has another surgery coming up and then we’re out of the woods for a while. And our 3-year-old [daughter, Jane] loves him. Like, maybe a little too hard. But it’s been really good."Watch below:EXCLUSIVE: Jimmy Kimmel's Son is 'Doing Great,' Will Have Surgery Again






Photo: NBC  
Megyn Kelly's first day on Today was an emotional one. The 46-year-old journalist officially debuted her morning show, Megyn Kelly TODAY, on Monday, which airs during the third hour of the NBC morning show. Among those in the audience was her mother, as well as her husband, novelist Douglas Brunt, who made a surprise appearance when he presented her with a bouquet of red roses on air. Kelly later explained what a special moment it was, considering how private her husband of 11 years is.“That is so sweet, because he is not a TV person,” Kelly shared. “Doug, unlike me, likes his privacy! So, that was big.”Megyn Kelly Unintentionally Shades Hoda Kotb on 'Today' During NBC Debut -- See Kotb's Priceless ReactionKelly admitted she was nervous about her big morning show debut, and shared a personal story of her father dying of a heart attack at their home when she was 15 years old, just 10 days before Christmas. The former Fox News anchor said she searched for a sign from him when deciding if she should move to NBC."I wasn't happy, but I was scared to change," she said of her former gig. "For years I had dreamed of hosting a more uplifting show, but how, where, what?""And it turns out my dad was here all along," she continued, after explaining that her dad used to sing the John Denver song "Today." "I just had to listen."Kelly also said she was "done with politics" for now. "You know why, right?" she asked the audience. "We all feel it. It's everywhere, and it's gotten so dark."Of course, Today hosts -- including Matt Lauer, Savannah Guthrie, Hoda Kotb and Kathie Lee Gifford -- all gave Kelly a warm welcome as well. Watch Kelly's monologue below:In April, ET spoke with Guthrie, who praised Kelly's talents."She's doing a lot of different things for NBC and she's gonna be awesome," Guthrie gushed. "I think she's the utility player. She can do anything."Watch below:EXCLUSIVE: Savannah Guthrie Talks Megyn Kelly Joining the NBC Team: 'She Can Do Anything'


Normally it's a good thing when you get a star like Reggie Watts to serenade you with a song -- but maybe not this time!
On Wednesday's episode of Baroness von Sketch Show, the musical comedian makes a guest appearance in a very funny sketch centered around a woman's 44th birthday.
Three office pals -- played by Baroness' Meredith MacNeill, Aurora Browne and Carolyn Taylor -- hire Watts to make up a song for their co-worker Ashley's (Jennifer Whalen) big day, but the overly specific, meandering tune gets a little too spot-on for her liking. After all, loneliness and IVF aren't two topics you expect to hear in a celebratory song.
Watch the irreverent sketch below:EXCLUSIVE: 'Baroness von Sketch Show' Co-Creator Carolyn Taylor Finds the Funny in Life's AbsurditiesWe were really in it for that pink T-shirt and those suspenders anyway, but just try to get "no eggs, eggs, eggs eggs" out of your head now.Baroness von Sketch Show airs Wednesdays at 11 p.m. ET/PT on IFC.EXCLUSIVE: 'Baroness von Sketch Show' Takes on Soccer Moms in Hilarious Sketch  Related GalleryCue the Nostalgia! Favorite TV Reunions


Photo: Getty Images  
John McCain is opening up about his cancer diagnosis, and how he took the devastating news.In an interview with 60 Minutes that aired on Sunday, the 81-year-old Republican senator talked about battling glioblastoma -- an aggressive form of brain cancer -- and what the outlook is. McCain said he first visited the doctor to check out a blood clot in his eye, which is when his cancer was discovered. He said he repeatedly told doctors to "tell it to me straight."“As you know, doctors are interesting,” he said. “Some say 3 percent, some say 14 percent. You know, it’s a very poor prognosis. So, I just said, ‘I understand. Now we’re going to do what we can, get the best doctors we can find and do the best we can, and at the same time celebrate with gratitude a life well lived.'"McCain made a dramatic return to work at the Senate in July, when he voted no on an attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare. On Friday, he made headlines again when he said he wouldn't back the Graham-Cassidy bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Meghan McCain Reacts to Dad John McCain's Brain Cancer Diagnosis: See Other Celebrity ResponsesAlthough the Arizona senator admitted to having "feelings sometimes of fear of what happens," he stressed that knows he "had a great life.""It's not that you're leaving, it's that you -- that you stayed," he said.Ashton Kutcher Blows a Kiss to John McCain After Senator Says He's 'Better Looking in the Movies': Watch!In February, Ashton Kutcher playfully blew a kiss at McCain after the actor testified at a Senate Foreign Relations Committee, when the Arizona senator joked that he was "better looking in the movies."Watch below: Ashton Kutcher Blows a Kiss at John McCain From Senate Floor


Photo: ET Online  
Summer movie season has ended, taking with it all the sexy onscreen lifeguards, bridesmaids gone wild and action movie explosions. (There were so many action movie explosions this summer.) In its place, we have a lineup that includes some things scary, some things sweet, more superheroes, two sequels that fans have been waiting decades for, and countless films that are "Based on a True Story." Here are 35 movies you will want to look out for this fall, some of which are in theaters now for your viewing pleasure.2017 Fall TV Preview: Love It, Date It or Leave It? Your Guide to 20 New Shows!
        Photo: Open Road Films
      Home AgainWho: Reese Witherspoon, Michael Sheen, Nat Wolff, Pico Alexander, Jon RudnitskyWhat: Nancy Meyers' daughter, Hallie Meyers-Shyer, makes her directorial debut with a "sweet and lightly funny" (and very Nancy Meyers-y) rom-com about a recently separated single mother of two (Witherspoon) who invites three aspiring filmmakers to move into her guest house. Hijinks and a bit of romance ensues.When: Sept. 8
        Photo: Warner Bros. Pictures
      ItWho: Bill Skarsgård, Jaeden Lieberher, Finn Wolfhard, Sophia Lillis, Chosen JacobsWhat: The most "outright scary" adaptation of Stephen King's iconic 1986 horror story yet, this remake has everything you'd expect from an It movie: Pennywise the Clown (played by Alexander Skarsgård's younger brother, Bill), a bunch of terrorized children (including one Stranger Things star) and, of course, red balloons.When: Sept. 8
        Photo: Paramount Pictures
      mother!Who: Jennifer Lawrence, Javier Bardem, Ed Harris, Michelle PfeifferWhat: Nearly everything about Black Swan director Darren Aronofsky's latest film has been shrouded in secrecy. Here's what we do know: Lawrence and Bardem play a married couple whose lives begins to unravel with the arrival of uninvited visitors. What happens next is maddeningly consuming -- and must be seen to be believed.When: Sept. 15
        Photo: Fox Searchlight Pictures
      Battle of the SexesWho: Emma Stone, Steve Carell, Sarah Silverman, Alan Cumming, Andrea RiseboroughWhat: There's something particularly timely about Battle of the Sexes. Stone plays world No. 1 tennis player Billie Jean King, a feminist who fought for gender equality in the sport in the '70s, while Carell plays Bobby Riggs, the media-hungry, self-proclaimed male chauvinistic pig who challenges her to the titular match. (Sound vaguely familiar?)When: Sept. 22
        Photo: 20th Century Fox
      Kingsman: The Golden CircleWho: Taron Egerton, Channing Tatum, Colin Firth, Jeff Bridges, Julianne Moore, Halle BerryWhat: There's been much ado about the next James Bond movie lately, as if everyone had forgotten that another British playboy secret agent already had a sequel on the way. Eggsy (Egerton) and his fellow Kingsmen are heading Stateside to meet a whole new cast of characters in director Matthew Vaughn's second installment.When: Sept. 22
        Photo: Warner Bros. Pictures
      The LEGO Ninjago MovieWho: Dave Franco, Justin Theroux, Kumail Nanjiani, Michael Peña, Olivia Munn, Jackie ChanWhat: Whether two different LEGO movies in one calendar year -- The LEGO Batman Movie only just came out in February -- is a gift or a curse depends on how amusing you find those yellow, plastic people. In this installment, a high school student by day, ninja by night takes on his dad, the evil warlord Garmadon.When: Sept. 22
        Photo: Lionsgate / Roadside Attractions
      StrongerWho: Jake Gyllenhaal, Tatiana Maslany, Miranda RichardsonWhat: There are so many ways a based-on-a-true-story movie of real-life heroics can go wrong, especially one that revisits a national tragedy not even five years after the fact. Stronger, about how Jeff Bauman became the embodiment of "Boston Strong" following 2013's marathon bombing, avoids exploitation and melodramatics and offers Gyllenhaal an Oscar-worthy role.When: Sept. 22
        Photo: Universal Pictures
      American MadeWho: Tom Cruise, Domhnall Gleeson, Sarah WrightWhat: Whether it's Ethan Hunt or Jack Reacher or even The Mummy's Nick Morton, you know the brand of action and adventure you're going to get from a Tom Cruise movie these days. Here, he plays Barry Seal, a pilot-turned-drug smuggler-turned-DEA informant in a biopic directed by Doug Liman (Edge of Tomorrow and the Bourne movies).When: Sept. 29
        Photo: Sony Pictures / Screen Gems
      FlatlinersWho: Ellen Page, Diego Luna, James Norton, Kiersey Clemons, Nina DobrevWhat: Despite all appearances, this is not a remake of the 1990 sci-fi thriller; it’s actually a sequel. Like Julia Roberts, Kevin Bacon and Kiefer Sutherland before them, Page and her co-stars play medical students who conduct near-death experiments in order to research what occurs in the afterlife, with Sutherland reprising his role from the original. Think of it as Flatliners 2: Almost Die Another Day.When: Sept. 29
        Photo: Warner Bros. Pictures
      Blade Runner 2049Who: Ryan Gosling, Harrison Ford, Jared Leto, Mackenzie Davis, Robin WrightWhat:Blade Runner opted not to go the reboot route either. Instead, more than three decades after Ridley Scott's original, Ford returns as Rick Deckard in this sequel, albeit opposite new blood (Gosling plays a young blade runner), a new baddie (Leto) and a new director (Arrival's Denis Villeneuve, with Scott serving as executive producer).When: Oct. 6
        Photo: Universal Pictures
      Happy Death DayWho: Jessica Rothe, Israel Broussard, Ruby ModineWhat: 2017 has provided plenty of scares, courtesy of Pennywise the Dancing Clown in It, demonic xenomorphs in Alien: Covenant and racism in Get Out. Happy Death Day -- about a college co-ed who races to identify her killer as she relives the day of her murder -- comes via Blumhouse and director Christopher Landon (writer of Paranormal Activity 2-4 and The Marked Ones), practically guaranteeing pre-Halloween frights.When: Oct. 13
        Photo: Open Road Films
      MarshallWho: Chadwick Boseman, Sterling K. Brown, Josh Gad, Jussie Smollett, Dan Stevens, Kate HudsonWhat: We won't see Boseman suit up for Marvel's Black Panther until 2018, but in the interim, he stars as Thurgood Marshall in this biopic about the first African-American Supreme Court justice. The People v. O. J. Simpson Emmy winner Brown co-stars as defendant Joseph Spell, with Empire's Smollett playing Langston Hughes.When: Oct. 13
        
      The Meyerowitz Stories (New and Selected)Who: Adam Sandler, Ben Stiller, Elizabeth Marvel, Dustin Hoffman, Emma ThompsonWhat: ﻿If there's one topic director Noah Baumbach (The Squid and the Whale, While We're Young) knows, it's New York City dysfunction. His latest -- which leaves behind indie cinemas for Netflix -- is about the three Meyerowitz children coming to terms with the family's difficult artist patriarch (Hoffman) and hippie-dippie matriarch (Thompson).When: Oct. 13
        Photo: Amazon Studios / Roadside Attractions
      WonderstruckWho: Julianne Moore, Michelle Williams, Millicent Simmonds, Oakes FegleyWhat: Academy Award winner Todd Haynes reunites with his Far From Heaven star, Moore, for a film that appears as wondrous as the title suggests. But after the very adult Carol, Haynes is doing something more family-friendly, about the parallel journeys of a young, deaf girl in 1927 and boy in 1977.When: Oct. 20
        Photo: Open Road Films
      All I See Is YouWho: Blake Lively, Jason Clarke, Danny HustonWhat: How does one follow up a cinematic masterpiece like The Shallows, last summer's Criterion-worthy hit in which Lively literally fights a shark? By playing a blind woman who regains her sight, it appears. If that sounds like the plot of a heartwarming YouTube video, though, be warned that this is from the same director who did World War Z and Machine Gun Preacher.When: Oct. 27
        Photo: A24
      The Killing of a Sacred DeerWho: Colin Farrell and Nicole KidmanWhat: If you enjoyed The Lobster, last year's artsy, romantic thriller starring Farrell, it's a safe bet that you'll enjoy Yorgos Lanthimos' latest: an artsy, psychological thriller starring Farrell. Alternatively, for people who didn't get nearly enough Farrell-Kidman sparring in this summer's The Beguiled, this should more than satisfy.When: Oct. 27
        Photo: Paramount Pictures
      SuburbiconWho: Matt Damon, Julianne Moore, Oscar IsaacWhat: There's a Coen Brothers movie buried somewhere within Suburbicon, a satire of the '50s that combines a vintage script by Joel and Ethan with additional plotting by director George Clooney and Grant Heslov. The end product is part noir, part caper, part indictment of racism in America? It is...a lot, and that's before you find out Moore plays dual roles.When: Oct. 27
        Photo: STX Entertainment
      A Bad Moms ChristmasWho: Mila Kunis, Kristen Bell, Kathryn Hahn, Christine Baranski, Cheryl Hines, Susan SarandonWhat: The Bad Moms are back to put the bad in Christmas! (Christbadmas?) The sequel promises to be bigger, bawdier and bad mom-ier, as Amy (Kunis), Kiki (Bell) and Carla (Hahn) face off with their own bad moms, played by Baranski, Hines and Sarandon, respectively. Plus, Justin Hartley from This Is Usis naked in this.When: Nov. 3
        Photo: Marvel Studios
      Thor: RagnarokWho: Chris Hemsworth, Tom Hiddleston, Mark Ruffalo, Cate Blanchett, Tessa ThompsonWhat: The most anticipated Marvel movie since...well, since Spider-Man: Homecoming. The Thor threequel is bringing back all the Asgardians you know and love, alongside new additions like the Hulk, Valkyrie, Dr. Strange and baddie Hela, the goddess of death (a perfectly-cast Cate Blanchett). Plus, with Taika Waititi (writer-director of the wonderful Hunt for the Wilderpeople) at the helm, Thor is funny now!When: Nov. 3
        Photo: Paramount Pictures
      Daddy's Home 2Who: Mark Wahlberg, Will Ferrell, Mel Gibson, John Lithgow, John CenaWhat: Aka A Bad Dads Christmas. The original Daddy's Home was about a too-cool-for-school dad (Wahlberg) and a lovingly dopey stepdad (Ferrell) putting aside their differences and learning to be friends. The sequel is about the arrival of their respective dads, too-cool-for-school Gibson and the lovingly dopey Lithgow.When: Nov. 10
        Photo: A24
      Lady BirdWho: Saoirse Ronan, Laurie Metcalf, Tracy Letts, Lucas Hedges, Timothée ChalametWhat: Greta Gerwig, so charming in front of the camera in movies like Frances Ha and 20th Century Women, makes her directorial debut with this semiautobiographical coming-of-age dramedy about Christine McPherson, self-nicknamed "Lady Bird," as she navigates her last year of high school.When: Nov. 10
        Photo: 20th Century Fox
      Murder on the Orient ExpressWho: Kenneth Branagh, Josh Gad, Michelle Pfeiffer, Penélope Cruz, Daisy Ridley, Judi DenchWhat: Branagh, who has directed everything from Shakespeare to superheroes to Cinderella, is behind the camera on this remake of the 1974 whodunit (itself an adaptation of Agatha Christie's novel) and has cast himself as Hercule Poirot, the self-proclaimed "greatest detective in the world." The mystery? Who killed Johnny Depp. The suspects? A bunch of famous faces filling roles like the butler, the professor and the princess.When: Nov. 10
        Photo: Fox Searchlight Pictures
      Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, MissouriWho: Frances McDormand, Woody Harrelson, Sam Rockwell, Peter Dinklage, John HawkesWhat: There's enough story in this pitch-black comedy to warrant the mouthful of a title: Seven months after her daughter is murdered and no justice has been served, a mother uses the titular billboards to taunt the chief of police, inciting chaos in the process. (Hello, Frances McDormand's fifth Oscar nomination!)When: Nov. 10
        Photo: Warner Bros. Pictures
      Justice LeagueWho: Ben Affleck, Gal Gadot, Jason Momoa, Ezra Miller, Ray Fisher, Henry CavillWhat: Or, if we are likeminded moviegoers, Wonder Woman 1.5 -- y'know, to hold you over till the proper sequel in December 2019. As foretold by a PowerPoint presentation in Batman v Superman, the metahumans -- Batman! Wonder Woman! Aquaman! The Flash! Cyborg! Dead-but-not-dead Superman! -- are teaming up to save the world. As directed by Zack Snyder with an assist from Joss Whedon, we're cautiously hopeful it won't disappoint us.When: Nov. 17
        Photo: Lionsgate
      WonderWho: Julia Roberts, Owen Wilson, Jacob TremblayWhat: Based on the best-selling novel by R. J. Palacio and directed by Stephen Chbosky (The Perks of Being a Wallflower), Wonder centers on Auggie (Tremblay), a fifth grader with facial deformity, who is attending public school for the first time. Roberts plays his mom, and we're already crying.When: Nov. 17
        Photo: Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures
      CocoWho: Benjamin Bratt, Gael García Bernal, Anthony Gonzalez, Jaime CamilWhat: Pixar's Día de los Muertos movie follows a 12-year-old boy, Miguel, on a musical adventure into the Land of the Dead. This is one of Pixar's lighter romps for the kiddos, co-directed by Adrian Molina and Lee Unkrich (the latter of whom you may recognize as director of Toy Story 2, Monsters, Inc., Finding Nemo and Toy Story 3).When: Nov. 22
        Photo: STX Entertainment
      Molly's GameWho: Jessica Chastain, Kevin Costner, Idris Elba, Michael CeraWhat: We know what to expect from an Aaron Sorkin screenplay -- powerful people monologuing about power dynamics -- but Molly’s Game marks the debut of Aaron Sorkin the director, when he goes behind the camera to tell the true story of Molly Bloom (Chastain), an Olympic skiing hopeful-turned-grande dame of the multimillion-dollar international poker world.When: Nov. 22
        Photo: Sony Pictures Classics
      Call Me By Your NameWho: Armie Hammer and Timothée ChalametWhat: Newcomer Timothée Chalamet is having a moment and, if this film’s reception on the festival circuit is any indication, you will be hearing his name more come awards season. Director Luca Guadagnino (A Bigger Splash) adapts André Aciman’s novel about the bond between a 17-year-old (Chalamet) and the graduate student (Hammer) who comes to Italy to live with his family for the summer.When: Nov. 24
        Photo: A24
      The Disaster ArtistWho: James Franco, Dave Franco, Seth Rogen, Alison Brie, Ari Graynor, Paul ScheerWhat: Come for director-producer-star James Franco's insane (yet insanely accurate) accent. Stay for the truly wild story -- about Tommy Wiseau and the making of the "greatest bad movie ever," The Room -- and even wilder casting: Zac Efron! Melanie Griffith! Josh Hutcherson! Sharon Stone!When: Dec. 1
        Photo: Amazon Studios
      Wonder WheelWho: Kate Winslet, Justin Timberlake, James Belushi, Juno TempleWhat: There are plenty of reasons not to see the new Woody Allen movie -- the obvious, sure, but also the fact that most of his recent work (Magic in the Moonlight, Café Society) has been critically meh-ed. If you so choose, what’s known about his latest is that it's set on Coney Island in the '50s.When: Dec. 1
        Photo: Fox Searchlight Pictures
      The Shape of WaterWho: Sally Hawkins, Michael Shannon, Octavia Spencer, Richard JenkinsWhat: Guillermo del Toro has introduced the world to haunted houses and kaiji-fighting robots, Hellboy and other fantastical realms of reality, and his new project is just as magical: a creature feature of yesteryear, about a mute woman (Hawkins) who falls in love with a hardboiled egg-eating sea creature held in a secret government laboratory.When: Dec. 8
        Photo: 20th Century Fox
      FerdinandWho: John Cena, Kate McKinnon, Bobby Cannavale, Gina Rodriguez, Anthony AndersonWhat: The title, in conjunction with the awards season release date, may have the highfalutin whiff of prestige Oscar bait -- perhaps some saga of love and heartache in the Spanish countryside -- but this is about the bull, Ferdinand (voiced by former wrestler Cena), and his big heart.When: Dec. 15
        Photo: Lucasfilm Ltd.
      Star Wars: The Last JediWho: Daisy Ridley, John Boyega, Oscar Isaac, Adam Driver, Mark Hamill, Carrie FisherWhat: Now that J.J. Abrams is returning to directEpisode IX, this is the sole Star Wars episode of the new trilogy that will be directed by someone else: Looper's Rian Johnson. It will also mark the late Fischer’s final portrayal of General Leia Organa, as well as introduce a cast of new characters: Laura Dern's Vice Admiral Amilyn Holdo, Benicio Del Toro's "DJ" and Kelly Marie Tran's Rose Tico.When: Dec. 15
        Photo: Sony Pictures 
      Jumanji: Welcome to the JungleWho: Dwayne Johnson, Karen Gillan, Kevin Hart, Jack Black, Nick JonasWhat: Once upon a time, there was a magical board game that trapped a man, Alan Parrish (Robin Williams), inside it. More than 20 years later, that game is back, though this time it’s a video game -- and the movie, Welcome to the Jungle, comes with 100 percent more Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson. (And better CGI animals, we’re assuming.)When: Dec. 20
        
      BrightWho: Will Smith, Joel Edgerton, Noomi Rapace, Edgar Ramírez, Lucy FryWhat:Bright could make Netflix a bona fide home for popcorn-worthy blockbusters -- plus redeem director David Ayer after the much-maligned Suicide Squad. It might also be the first installment in a franchise about a fantastical world that looks a lot like modern-day L.A., where the police force is composed of humans and orcs, magic is outlawed and fairies are on the run.When: Dec. 22
        Photo: Paramount Pictures
      DownsizingWho: Matt Damon, Kristen Wiig, Christoph Waltz, Hong ChauWhat: Two-time Academy Award winner Alexander Payne (Sideways and The Descendants) is going the sci-fi route for his latest film -- in the future of Downsizing, scientists have discovered a way to shrink human beings to five inches tall to combat overpopulation -- but with its zany vibe steeped in satire, it still feels very Alexander Payne.When: Dec. 22
        Photo: Universal Pictures
      Pitch Perfect 3Who: Anna Kendrick, Anna Camp, Brittany Snow, Hailee Steinfeld, Rebel Wilson, Ruby RoseWhat: Three movies in, the Bellas have proven they can do aca-anything. Now, they have set their sights on world peace -- or, y’know, a reunion to perform at an overseas USO tour. PP3 is billed as the last hoorah for the ladies, and what better way to honor the milestone than by introducing John Lithgow as Fat Amy’s dad?When: Dec. 22
        Photo: 20th Century Fox
      The PostWho: Meryl Streep, Tom Hanks, Sarah Paulson, Bradley Whitford, Carrie CoonWhat: This movie just screams Oscars: Directed by three-time Academy Award winner Steven Spielberg, starring three-time Academy Award winner Streep and two-time winner Hanks, it’s a based-on-a-true-story period piece about one newspaper’s role in exposing the Pentagon Papers cover-up. It’s an honor to already be nominated.When: Dec. 22
        Photo: 20th Century Fox
      The Greatest ShowmanWho: Hugh Jackman, Michelle Williams, Rebecca Ferguson, Zac Efron, ZendayaWhat: Visual effects artist Michael Gracey is taking on quite a lot for directorial debut: the rise of P.T. Barnum, of Barnum & Bailey's Circus, told as a musical. Fortunately, he has a lot in his corner, including a screenplay co-written by Bill Condon (who is responsible for Disney's massive Beauty and the Beast) and one of the most beloved actors in Hollywood.When: Dec. 25
        Photo: Focus Features
      Untitled Paul Thomas Anderson FilmWho: Daniel Day-LewisWhat: Day-Lewis, widely regarded as one of the greatest living actors, will "no longer be working as an actor" following the release of this, his final film. Neither the title nor plot have been confirmed -- it is "set in the couture world of 1950s London" and speculation says he plays fashion designer Charles James. More importantly, it is an anxiously awaited reunion for director Anderson and Day-Lewis after their Academy Award-winning masterpiece, There Will Be Blood.When: Dec. 252017 Fall Movie Preview Guide: Star Wars, Jumanji, Pixar and More!




Irina Shayk had a cheeky day out with her baby's daddy, Bradley Cooper.The new parents were spotted having a casual stroll in Malibu, California, on Sunday with a friend, and during their rare PDA public appearance, the 31-year-old supermodel got a little flirty and grabbed Cooper's butt!
        Photo: Backgrid
      Per usual, the two made a gorgeous pair. Shayk put her curves on display in tight capri jeans and a black bodysuit, while the 42-year-old actor looked ready to hit the gym in a dark sweatshirt, gray shorts and sneakers. PHOTO: Irina Shayk Flaunts Flat Stomach Just 4 Months After Giving Birth -- See Her Post-Baby Bod
        Photo: Backgrid
      Shayk and Cooper welcomed daughter Lea De Seine Shayk Cooper into the world on March 21, but have kept mum about being new parents. In May, Cooper appeared on The Ellen DeGeneres Show for his first sit-down interview as a new dad, and while he didn't talk about his baby girl, the daytime talk show host did manage to make mention of the big news.Check out the actor's response: Bradley Cooper Has Hilarious Reaction to Ellen DeGeneres  Bringing Up His Newborn Baby - Watch!  Related GalleryPDA Alert! Celebrity Couples Who Can't Keep Their Hands Off Each Other


Photo: Getty Images  
Nearly two years after Downton Abbey went off the air, most of the beloved ensemble cast is back in action on screen and stage, with Michelle Dockery, Dan Stevens and Joanne Froggatt leading several high-profile projects coming out this fall. 2017 Fall Preview: ET's Complete CoverageEven though the period drama ended in 2015, this year can definitely be dubbed “2017: Life After Abbey.” And to think, all we care about is a Downton Abbey movie!Check out what’s coming up (and highlights of a few things you may have missed): Michelle DockeryGood Behavior (TNT)
Premieres 10/15Godless (Netflix)
Premieres 11/22
        Photo: PBS / Getty Images / TNT / Netflix
      Dockery, aka Lady Mary, was one of the first cast members out of the gates with a decidedly un-Downton-like character, playing con artist and recovering drug addict Letty Raines on TNT’s Good Behavior. “I was very fortunate when it came along,” Dockery told ET. “I wasn’t consciously looking for something so vastly different.” The show proved to be a hit and returns with a second season in October.It’s the first of two series starring Dockery coming out this fall. The other is Steven Soderbergh’s seven-part limited series about notorious criminal Frank Griffin (Jeff Daniels) hunting down Roy Goode (Jack O’Connell), who takes refuge in the home of widow and outcast Alice Fletcher (Dockery).Elizabeth McGovernTime and the Conways (Broadway)
Opens 10/10; in previews nowIn a grand return to the stage, McGovern and Pitch Perfect’s Anna Camp take on a revival of J.B. Priestley’s play about the decline of a wealthy British family in the mid-1900s. The production, directed by Tony winner Rebecca Taichman (Indecent), marks McGovern’s first Broadway role since playing Ophelia in a 1992 Roundabout production of Hamlet.Dan StevensMarshall (Theaters)
Premieres 10/13The Man Who Invented Christmas (Theaters)
Premieres 11/22
        Photo: PBS / Getty Images / Open Road Films / Bleeker
      Perhaps the busiest Downton alum, Stevens has made Matthew Crawley a thing of the past. He kicked things off with the titular role on FX’s Legion, which has been renewed for a second season, and the live adaptation of Disney’s Beauty and the Beast. Those hits were then followed by back-to-back releases of Colossal, Kill Switch, Norman: The Moderate Rise and Tragic Fall of a New York Fixer, The Ticket and the Tribeca Film Festival premiere of Permission. Stevens closes out the year with two biopics, about the lives of Thurgood Marshall -- he plays Lorin Willis, not the Supreme Court justice -- and Charles Dickens. “I've felt like I've grown so much as an actor,” Stevens told ET of the opportunity to showcase a transformation from lord and lover to a multifaceted character actor. “To be given the opportunity to play in all these different spaces and to see where some of them might lead -- and I'm not going to claim that all of them are going to be successful avenues -- but I enjoy exploring them all.”Hugh BonnevilleViceroy's House (Theaters and On Demand)
9/1W1A (BBC Two)
9/18Breathe (Theaters)
10/13The Commander (Acorn TV)
Now streamingBonneville, Downton’s former patriarch Robert Crawley, Earl of Grantham, knows how to pick projects with notable guest stars. Viceroy’s House, about the last man to hold that position in India, stars Gillian Anderson as Lord Mountbatten’s wife, and  Breathe, Andy Serkis’ directorial debut, stars Andrew Garfield as a man affected by polio. “I have a small part in that,” he admitted to ET, “[but] I leaped at the chance to work with him, and with Andy.” (And for the record, he has yet to see a script for a Downton Abbey movie…)Joanne FroggattLiar (Sundance TV)
Premieres 9/27Mary Shelley (TIFF)
9/9
        Photo: PBS / Getty Images / Sundance TV / Getty Images
      Following the Toronto International Film Festival premiere of Mary Shelley, about the author’s first love, Froggatt is back on TV with Liar. The six-part miniseries stars the former Anna Bates as a newly single teacher whose attraction and subsequent date with a renowned surgeon (played by Ioan Gruffudd) has far-reaching and unexpected consequences.  Lily JamesDarkest Hour (Theaters)
Premieres 11/22After becoming a late addition and breakout star of the Downton cast, James set her sights on film. This summer she appeared opposite Ansel Elgort in Baby Driver, which proved to be a sleeper hit, earning over $200 million at the box office despite not being a franchise film. For Darkest Hour, James will step back in time as Elizabeth Nel, the personal secretary to Winston Churchill in Joe Wright’s war film.Robert James-CollierThe Ritual (TIFF)
9/9
        Photo: PBS / Getty Images / Netflix / Getty Images
      While it doesn’t have an official release date for the U.S., The Ritual was picked up by Netflix following its premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival, where it opened to rave reviews. A story about campers, including the formerly snide Thomas Barrow, who encounter a supernatural menace while hiking in Northern Sweden, it offers up plenty of scares.Siobhan FinneranApostasy (TIFF)
9/8Cold Feet (ITV)
9/8The U.S. is not the only country addicted to revivals of ‘90s shows. Cold Feet, a relationship dramedy, was revived in 2016, with a second new season returning in September. Finneran, aka Sarah O'Brien, joins in a supporting role. It’s one of several series -- The Moorside, The Loch -- fans have been able to catch her on in 2017 as they eagerly await the return of Happy Valley, the hit crime series that will debut new episodes in 2018.Jessica Brown FindlayHarlots (Hulu)
Now streaming
        Photo: PBS / Getty Images / Hulu / Getty Images
      After Lady Sybil was killed off, Findlay spent a few years bouncing from one small role to the next until she landed Harlots on Hulu. On the period drama, which premiered in April, the actress plays Charlotte Wells, a high-end prostitute who followed her mother into the brothel business. “I just adored reading a character that you sort of love but also feel really frustrated by and makes bad life decisions sometimes,” she told ET of her character, who certainly has a mind of her own. Michael Fox Dunkirk (Theaters)
Now playingFox had a small role on Downton as Andy Parker, joining the show in its final two seasons. And he’s since followed it with an appearance in Christopher Nolan’s war epic, Dunkirk, which stormed theaters earlier this summer. If you couldn’t tell him from the other white English 20-something actors, don’t worry; they all looked the same. Rose Leslie The Good Fight (CBS All-Access)
Now streaming
        Photo: PBS / Getty Images / CBS All Access / Getty Images
      The former Downton Abbey and Game of Thrones star kicked the year off with CBS All-Access’ first original series, The Good Fight, a highly anticipated spinoff of The Good Wife about Diane Lockhart (Christine Baranski) and her return to law after her friend loses all her savings in a Ponzi scheme. The show was renewed for a second season, with Audra McDonald joining the star-studded cast as a series regular.


Paris and Prince Michael Jackson had a family-filled weekend.Michael Jackson's 20-year-old son and 19-year-old daughter got all dressed up for the wedding of family member Siggy Jackson, the son of their uncle, Jackie Jackson, who was a member of the Jackson 5.Prince wore a dapper black-and-white tuxedo, while his sister wore a black halter dress. "It was an honor to be a part of @officialsiggyjackson wedding with my sis @parisjackson," Prince captioned a photo of him and Paris posing together with black, red and white flowers.Siggy also shared the photo, and was proud to have the siblings at his wedding. "I'm so honored proud and blessed to be able to say that they are my family. This is what family means," the groom wrote. "My cousins held me up and together for my wedding, and let my wife know that she is family. Paris and Prince -- beautiful and handsome -- and I've been blessed to have them in me, my wife and children's lives. I love you two. Anytime, any place, always, family first. I love you."MORE: Prince Jackson Celebrates Dad Michael Jackson's 58th Birthday With Touching SonnetPrior to the wedding, Prince shared another photo of his sister sitting behind him on a motorcycle. "Get you a ride or die to ride into the sunset @parisjackson #harleydavidson #harleylowrider," he captioned the cute pic.While Paris has dabbled in the entertainment industry with a few modeling gigs, her older brother admitted to ET that he is carrying on his father's legacy in a different way. Check out ET's exclusive interview with the King of Pop's son:EXCLUSIVE: Prince Michael Jackson on Continuing His Father's Legacy Through Charity  Related GalleryFamous and Fabulous Celebrity Bridesmaids






Photo: Instagram  
Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez are giving back in a big way, and asking all their famous friends and connections to follow suit. On Sunday, Jennifer Lopez announced during a press conference with New York's Governor Andrew Cuomo that she would be donating $1 million to help those affected by Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico. Rodriguez was also on hand and shared videos on his Instagram Story of his 48-year-old girlfriend addressing the media. The former MLB pro also posted a separate video to the social media site, where he praised his former team, the New York Yankees, and Jennifer Lopez's ex-husband, Marc Anthony, with helping to aide hurricane relief efforts.MORE: Jennifer Lopez Delivers Passionate Plea for Puerto Rico's Hurricane Relief Efforts"Thank you @MLB, Rob Manfred, @yankees Hal Steinbrenner and @mcuban for teaming with me, @jlo & @marcanthony to help out 🇵🇷#PuertoRico #ReliefEffort," Rodriguez wrote.In addition, the 42-year-old athlete also shared a video of himself on a Spanish-speaking telethon. "Thank you to all who have helped in this tragic cause in Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Florida and Texas," he captioned the video in Spanish, which has been translated to English.MORE: JAY-Z's Tidal to Host Benefit Concert in Brooklyn for Hurricane Relief EffortsMeanwhile, Anthony, 49, also posted a video to Instagram, asking his followers in Spanish to help support those in Puerto Rico. In addition to Lopez's generous donation to relief efforts following Hurricane Maria, she and Rodriguez also  who were affected by Hurricane Harvey in Houston, Texas.Here's how other celebrities are helping following the recent natural disasters: Stars Show Support for Hurricane Relief Telethon: Justin Timberlake, Oprah, Justin Bieber and More!  Related GalleryCelebs Give Back


















Photo: Axelle/Bauer-Griffin/FilmMagic  
Talk about a magical birthday!Adam Levine and Behati Prinsloo threw a colorful first birthday party for their daughter, Dusty Rose, over the weekend, complete with massive balloon unicorns."We made it once around the sun....☀️ @adamlevine Not sure who enjoyed these wise old unicorns more, me or the kids," wrote Prinsloo on her Instagram caption.Behati Prinsloo Shares Sweet Message to Her 'Ride or Die' Adam Levine on Their Wedding AnniversaryThe couple has had a lot to be thankful for this year. In July, they celebrated their three-year wedding anniversary, and earlier this month announced they are expecting baby number two!"ROUND 2," the 28-year-old Victoria's Secret model announced on Instagram, showing off her baby bump.Behati Prinsloo and Adam Levine Expecting Baby No. 2!A source told ET at the time that Adam has always talked about wanting a big family. “He and Behati want lots of kids, and they want them close in age," the source said. "Adam is over the moon, as is Behati. They are in love with Dusty and can't wait to make her a big sister."For more on the happy family, watch the video below!Behati Prinsloo Celebrates Adam Levine's Birthday, Gets Matching Anklets With Daughter Dusty Rose  Related GalleryCelebrity Pregnancy Styles












Photo: Getty Images  
Tom Brady and Aaron Rodgers have responded to Donald Trump's recent controversial comments about players who kneel during the National Anthem, by showing support for their fellow NFL teammates.“Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ‘Get that son of a b*tch off the field right now. Out! He’s fired. He’s fired!’” Donald Trump said on Friday during a rally for Alabama senatorial candidate Luther Strange. He later doubled down on the controversial comments on Twitter.Tom Brady's Wax Figure Is Worse Than Beyonce's -- See the Pic!Brady, who interestingly enough made headlines when a red "Make America Great Again" hat was snapped in his locker last fall, linked arms with his New England Patriots teammates during the national anthem at their Sunday afternoon game against the Houston Texans. He also shared a picture on Instagram of he and teammate James White on Sunday."Strength. Passion. Love. Brotherhood. Team. Unity. Commitment. Dedication. Determination. Respect. Loyalty. Work. #nflplayer," he wrote.Meanwhile, Rodgers was even less subtle. The 33-year-old Green Bay Packers quarterback Instagrammed a picture of himself kneeling on the field with his teammates, writing, #unity #brotherhood #family #dedication #love."Plenty of celebs have responded to Trump's NFL comments over the weekend, as well as his tweet that he had rescinded NBA star Steph Curry's invitation to the White House after the Golden State Warrior player said he didn't want to visit after the team's championship win this year.Kathy Griffin Takes Back Her Apology Over Controversial Donald Trump PhotoEarlier this year, Brady's wife, Gisele Bundchen, admitted she would like him to have retired after his latest Super Bowl win.Watch below:Gisele Bundchen Is Ready for Tom Brady to 'Retire' From NFL After Super Bowl Victory




Photo: Tommaso Boddi/Getty Images  
Audrina Patridge is speaking out after filing for divorce from husband Corey Bohan.The 32-year-old former Hills star shared a video of their 1-year-old daughter, Kirra, on Instagram on Saturday, and thanked fans for their support."Light of my life ✨ This little beauty lights up the room wherever she is!," she wrote. "I appreciate all your thoughts & messages, this is a difficult time but we are doing ok 💕xoxo (Kirra loves this little dress my grandma made it for my aunt 50+ years ago and it's still in perfect condition & cute as ever)."
 Audrina Patridge Claims Corey Bohan Was Verbally Abusive in Restraining Order FilingThe reality star filed for divorce last week after obtaining a temporary restraining order against husband Corey Bohan following an alleged domestic violence incident. The Australian BMX rider was granted monitored visitation with Kirra.
 
In court documents obtained by ET, Patridge claims that her husband of less than a year had "become increasingly possessive, angry, agitated and jealous" of her hectic work schedule and travel obligations.
 
"His aggressive behavior usually escalates whenever I am paying attention to work obligations, rather than to him," she alleges in her restraining order petition, citing that the couple officially separated on Sept. 6 due to "irreconcilable differences."
 
Patridge, who has since been living at her parents' house, adds, "I am fearful of [Bohan's] temper because he cannot control his swearing and personal attacks on me, even when in the presence of our young daughter."
 
The reality star also alleges that Bohan is "holding all of my personal possessions and my home hostage," saying that he cursed at her and installed cameras in their home, violating the temporary restraining order she has against him.
 Corey Bohan Responds to Audrina Patridge's Restraining Order FilingMeanwhile, Bohan claims Patridge and her family showed up at the property on Wednesday "literally barging in the house through the garage door" with 15 minutes notice, when he requested they avoid conflict by setting up a time when he would not be there.
 
The professional dirt bike rider denied cursing and installing additional cameras in the house, and accuses Patridge of "hijacking" his visitation with their daughter by calling Child Protective Service with "bogus allegations" against him.
 
For more on the estranged couple, watch the video below.Audrina Patridge Files For Divorce From Corey Bohan After Less Than One Year of Marriage


Photo: Michael Buckner/Variety/REX/Shutterstock  
Kylie Jenner isn't letting a little baby bump slow her down.
 
Just a day after news broke that she is expecting her first child with rapper boyfriend Travis Scott, the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star headed to Las Vegas to see her beau perform at the iHeartRadio Music Festival on Saturday.
 Jenner, 20, kept her bump hidden underneath a black oversized T-shirt, which she paired with brown pleather pants and white Nike sneakers. From her perch backstage at the T-Mobile Arena, she watched Scott, 25, perform alongside DJ Khaled, Chance The Rapper, Demi Lovato and French Montana.
        Photo: Michael Buckner/Variety/REX/Shutterstock
      Did Travis Scott Rap About Getting Kylie Jenner Pregnant?French Montana posted a video to Instagram featuring Jenner flipping off the camera.
 
"This is how u close out @iheartradio weekend with the biggest record of the year with @djkhaled @ddlovato @chancethereapper @travisscott @quavohuncho and my sis @kyliejenner," he wrote, also wishing Jenner's bestie Jordyn Woods a happy birthday.Meanwhile, Scott was spotted partying with French Montana at at Hakkasan Nightclub inside MGM Grand Hotel & Casino.
        Photo: Joe Janet
      On Friday, the makeup maven stepped out to celebrate Woods' birthday at the Malibu Wine Safari where she laughed and posted snaps of the festivities.FLASHBACK: Kylie Jenner Couldn't Wait to Have Kids 'Someday' in 2013A source tells ET that the reality star, who is due with a baby girl in February, "is doing well and is happy."
 
"Kylie always wanted to be a young mom," the source adds. "She may be young, but she's very maternal and has lots of practice with babies! She's a very hands-on aunt and was basically a stepmom to Tyga's kid."
 
For more on the expectant couple, watch the video below.Kylie Jenner Pregnant! Star Expecting a Baby Girl With Boyfriend Travis Scott












Photo: David Crotty/Patrick McMullan via Getty Images  
Mandy Moore is celebrating her engagement!The 33-year-old actress took to Instagram Stories on Saturday to document the sweet engagement party her friend, Raina Penchansky, threw for her."rp1313 is the bestest friend ever," Moore captioned a video showing off her bridal emoji pictionary, before sharing more of the event attended by Penchansky, Sarah Gibson Tuttle, Ashley Streicher, Minka Kelly and her This Is Us co-star, Susan Kelechi Watson.
        Photo: Instagram
      
        Photo: Instagram
      
        Photo: Instagram
      EXCLUSIVE: Mandy Moore's Engagement Confirmed By 'This Is Us' Co-Stars Chris Sullivan & Jon HuertasThough the event also celebrated Moore's fiance, Taylor Goldsmith, the afternoon was clearly all about her. "Celebrating our boo @mandymooremm," Gibson Tuttle wrote alongside a snap of a crown. 
        Photo: Instagram
      
        Photo: Instagram
      
        Photo: Instagram
      EXCLUSIVE: Milo Ventimiglia on 'This Is Us' Wife Mandy Moore's Engagement: 'I'm Incredibly Happy for Her'ET spoke with Moore at the Emmys on Sunday, where she admitted that she hadn't had time to really think about a wedding -- but she couldn't help but gush about her stunning engagement ring. "He did a very good job," she shared. "Yeah, I'm not an engagement ring kind of girl.""I'm a bashful girl and I didn't think I really wanted one, but then -- I'm very happy with this," she added. "Because you can see my skin underneath. I like that."See more in the video below. Emmys 2017: Mandy Moore Blushes Over Engagement  News -- See Her Stunning Ring!  Related GallerySize Does Matter: The Biggest and Best Celebrity Engagement Rings












Fergie is just as inspired by Beyonce as we all are. ET's Keltie Knight spoke with the 42-year-old singer as she premiered her new visual album, Double Dutchess, at the Tuck Room at iPic Theaters New York City on Wednesday, where she revealed how the "Formation" singer played a part in her latest project."[My album] is completely different than Beyonce's [Lemonade], but absolutely, she's an inspiration to me in all areas," Fergie shared. "Performance, drive, balance -- I mean, she is the Queen B." "How can you not be inspired by her?" she asked. EXCLUSIVE: Fergie Talks Split From Josh Duhamel: 'We're Just Not a Romantic Couple Anymore'"Beyonce, of course, paving the way, Justin Bieber doing his version, having Parris [Goebel] choreograph and all the dancers... it keeps it interesting," Fergie continued. "It used to be, back in the day, you'd do one video, because you're waiting for a video channel to play that video, but now, on cell phones, everywhere, in iPic [theaters], you can go see everything, so why not make it a visual feast and a visual treat." While the mother of one took inspiration from other artists, she made sure to do her visual album her way. "I kinda just stumbled. You know me, I'm kind of clumsy, so mine's more stumbling in each experience and adventure, and that's more what it is," she explained. "It's kind of like a photo album of the last few years of my life." Fergie's Double Dutchess also includes a few celeb cameos, like Kendall Jenner, who for "Enchante." EXCLUSIVE: Fergie Reveals How Milo Ventimiglia Taught Her How to Kiss On Screen"I always like to have a bag full of tricksies," the singer teased. "It is all in the family, because Kim [Kardashian] did M.I.L.F.$, and I have known the girls, the whole family for a long time." Fergie's new album, Double Dutchess: Seeing Double, is out now.See more in the video below. EXCLUSIVE: Fergie Explains Her Visual Album Music Videos with Kendall Jenner, Nicki Minaj and More!






















It may be the first day of Fall, but Queen Bey is rocking a summer dress!Beyonce took to Instagram on Friday with a couple revealing new snaps of her in a pretty, flowing dress and cool shades. MORE: Beyonce Wows at First Red Carpet Event Post-Twins -- See the Pics!The 36-year-old singer looks incredible, three months after giving birth to her twins with JAY-Z, Rumi and Sir.Meanwhile, Fergie recently talked to ET about how Beyonce inspired her new visual album.Watch the video below for more.EXCLUSIVE: Fergie on How Beyonce Inspired Her New Visual Album  Related GalleryBeyonce's Flawless Pregnancy Style










Photo: E!  
Jessie James Decker is so happy to be back "home" in Nashville, Tennessee.
ET spoke with the country star while she was promoting season three of Eric & Jessie, where she revealed just how excited she was when her football star husband, Eric Decker, told her he had signed a one-year contract with the Tennessee Titans after being released by the New York Jets.
"I honestly never thought that could happen," Jessie, who's been in Nashville on-and-off for 10 years to work on her country music, explained. "That seemed so in the distance, way too good to be true. I remember saying to Eric, 'Well, maybe whenever you're ready to retire, you just got one year left in you, maybe you can just tell your agent to just give 'em [the Titans] a call.' I would be funny with it."
"So, when it actually did happen, I was like, 'What? This is real life? We get to just stay home?'" she recalled. "It was just really exciting. Obviously it was a little sad to leave New Jersey and the New York Jets community. They were really, really good to us and I'll always be grateful for that, but there's nothing like coming home."MORE: Jessie James Decker Says New Season of 'Eric & Jessie' Is 'Funny, Sweet and Loving'Although Jessie and Eric are ecstatic to finally be in one place together full-time with their two children, daughter Vivi, 3, and son Buby, 2, the brunette beauty tells ET that they still have a lot of work to do, as they're currently renovating their house.
"We are far from being settled in," she joked. "Even though we've had this house for almost a year now, it wasn't 100% what I wanted as far as the aesthetics go. But now that I know we're staying here, I can put my whole heart and soul into making this house look the way I want."
"The kids are just happy to be in Nashville full-time," she added. "Vivi knows that Nashville is her home."With two adorable kiddos and a home to officially call their own, Jessie says she and Eric are now "completely open to having another baby."
"I wasn't ready before," she admitted. "Because I had just had Vivi and Bub back to back, they are, like, 17 and a half months apart. Two little ones running around in diapers and bottles, you need a break."
"But now that little man is two, I'm completely open, and whatever happens, happens," she revealed. "I'm game. Let's do it."So, how does she think Vivi and Buby (real name: Eric Decker II) would react to news of another Decker baby?
"I think they would be SO happy," Jessie gushed. "Vivi keeps asking me for another sibling. She says she wants a little sister.""No nicknames yet," Jessie added, joking about how it was Vivi who came up with their son's nickname. "But she definitely keeps saying, 'I want a little sister.'"As for her marriage with Eric, Jessie says their relationship is still going strong. While chatting with ET, she recalled the moment she knew Eric was "the one" -- and gave some stellar advice for all the single ladies out there about not settling for just anybody!
"Whenever we spent some time apart from each other, I truly felt like I couldn't live without him," she said. "I would just think to myself, 'I cannot live without this man. I cannot go another day without him in my life.' He was just such a kind, warm person. I believe in soulmates and I just knew that we were meant to be together."
"For single girls, I would just say, listen to those red flags," she advised. "If you get that pit in your stomach about a guy, that he's done something that just doesn't feel right, then you have to listen to that. And it's probably not worth being in that relationship."
Jessie said she "never felt that way" with Eric.
"I never felt judged, I never felt like there were ulterior motives. I just felt like it was just pure love for me," she explained. "I'd also say, always be confident. Men are so attracted to confident women, and that goes a long way. I had a lot of confidence when I met Eric. I was finally in a good place with myself and I feel like he was very attracted to that. I knew who I was."MORE: Jessie James Decker and Kristin Cavallari's Kids are Ready for FootballWell said, Jessie!Eric & Jessie airs Wednesdays at 10 p.m. ET/PT on E!EXCLUSIVE: Jessie James Decker Fires Back at Breastfeeding Backlash: 'It's Just a Boob, Calm Down!'  Related GalleryStars Share Pics of Their Cute Kids




Photo: 20th Century Fox  
A bespoke British spy with a license to kill. His techy right-hand man, known only by his code name. All the amusingly absurd gizmos and gadgets. A beautiful femme with an inclination toward evil. It sounds familiar, yet there's been so much ado about whether there will be another James Bond movie -- and if Daniel Craig will be back for it -- that people seem to have forgotten there's another agent who ticks all those boxes and does have a movie out now: Eggsy (Taron Egerton).If you didn't see Eggsy make his chav-to-suave(ish) transformation in The Secret Service, you are going to be awfully confused when the sequel, Kingsman: The Golden Circle, kicks off with not so much a bang, but at least at gunpoint. Charlie (Edward Holcroft), rejected by the Kingsman in the first film, holds Eggsy up, which escalates to gunshots and then an intricately choreographed fight in the backseat of a town car -- dizzyingly soundtracked to pop music -- which escalates into a car chase and ends with a rocket launcher. And then Eggsy's car turns into a Despicable Me-like submarine. That all takes place within the first 30 seconds of the movie, and it's exciting and outlandish and goofy in a way that the Bond movies aren't anymore. (Which is not a bad thing, necessarily. Since Casino Royale, they’re just something else now.)EXCLUSIVE: Behind the Scenes of 'Kingsman: The Golden Circle' With Channing Tatum & Halle BerryAs far as Egerton’s Eggsy goes, he’s always skewed toward adorable over 007’s stoicism, like a boy trying on the Bond persona and finding it not quite a perfect fit, but fun as hell nonetheless. An unlikely recruit to the Kingsman, an Arthurian agency of spies, he has always shown a vulnerability and defensive humor that isn’t required of a graduate of the hoity-toity royal navy. The Golden Circle differentiates them even further by revealing that Eggsy is now in a monogamous relationship with Swedish Princess Tilde (Hanna Alström). Though perhaps a reactionary move to her being the butt (ahem) of the joke in the first movie -- and not that monogamy is right for everyone -- it is refreshing to see a spy who respects women, who values his commitments to the women in his life. I wondered, is this millennial Bond finally getting Bond right?(To be fair, Bond was married once, to Tracy Bond. Here’s hoping Tilde fairs better.)Eggsy may be improved -- at one point in The Golden Circle, he gets emotional and cries! How often are male secret agents allowed to do that? -- the movie quickly gets in its own way. As directed by Matthew Vaughn, the plot hinges on the decimation of the entire Kingsman family, including killing off fellow spy, Roxy (Sophie Cookson). It is meant to add stakes to the film, but it denies the opportunity to show a spy having a truly platonic relationship with another spy of the other sex, an esteemed female agent who is also Eggsy’s best friend.At the very least, considering Cookson’s Roxy was a fan favorite in the first film, it would have been nice to see her do more than help Eggsy fake his way through a date using a secret earpiece, that tired gag.The same goes for Halle Berry’s newly introduced agent (...sort of) Ginger Ale. With the Kingsman down, Eggsy and his Q counterpart, Merlin (Mark Strong), hop the pond to seek assistance from their American cousins, the Statesman: Agents “Champ,” as in Champaign (Jeff Bridges), Whiskey (Narcos' Pedro Pascal) and Tequila (Channing Tatum), the latter arriving with his shotgun twirling and a “y’all”-heavy Kentucky accent, then essentially disappears for the rest of the movie. (At one point, he gets cryogenically frozen! Tatum probably spent more time on the photo shoot for the movie’s billboards and posters than he did filming the actual movie.) Berry is equally underserved, but it feels more egregious because she’s there! Stuck behind a monitor. Berry’s Bond Girl -- NSA agent “Jinx” in 2002’s Die Another Day -- eventually got to see some action, so why is she being relegated to a staring-at-a-computer-screen role here?
        Photo: 20th Century Fox
      Thankfully, Julianne Moore’s villainous Poppy Adams is one of the best movie villains I’ve seen onscreen in a bit. There’s the plotting of it all: As head of the titular Golden Circle, a cartel with a global monopoly on the drug trade, she has a clear motive -- not to take over the world, but to get fame, fortune and, for once, some gosh darn respect. More so, it’s what Moore does with this part, the chipper way she threatens someone without raising her voice or how she watches a henchman being put head-first into a meat grinder with a placid grin. Poppy is a sadistic Martha Stewart-meets-Griselda Blanco and Moore is having a ball with it.So, it’s one step forward, two steps back perhaps. Or two steps forward, one close-up shot of a vagina back, as the case may be. That will surely be the most problematic scene in the movie: In an all-around unnecessary sequence that hops back across the pond to Glastonbury, Eggsy’s assignment is to seduce an enemy’s girlfriend (Poppy Delevingne) and place a tracker on her. Or, inside her -- the gag is that the bit ends with a shot tightly framed on her panties, then continues on into her body via CGI. It's Vaughn doubling down on the running anal sex joke that was so widely criticized in The Secret Service.So, yeah, that’s gross. And unnecessary. But I do find the scene interesting to look at, for the moments pre-seduction when Eggsy slips away to the bathroom to Facetime Tilde and ask for her permission to, as she angrily puts it, “screw the target.” She’s (understandably) not pleased, but the fact that Eggsy is not the secret agent-type who unthinkingly screws any woman that crosses his path, that Delevingne’s character is sexually in charge and Eggsy is morally hesitant (and doesn’t ultimately have sex with her! He’s kind of a good dude!) has to be some slow version of progress, doesn’t it? Eggsy appears to be on the right track. Now, I suppose, Vaughn just needs to catch up to him. That bodes well for the third film, right?As far as I’ve deciphered, the point of Bond movies -- and all of the spy franchises they begat, including Kingsman -- is that they're supposed to be fun, supposed to revel in how being an international man of mystery is just so cool. On that front, I’d say Kingsman: The Golden Circle succeeds. After all, Egerton is endlessly charming, and I’d take Eggsy over Bond any day. I haven't yet mentioned the return of Colin Firth's Harry Hart, whose return from the dead is explained away fairly sillily and easily, but there is one scene involving a puppy that gave me chills. Or the ace use of a very game Elton John. Or the rest of the action sequences that smash through the blood-brain barrier, chaotic and cartoonishly bloody. (And if a movie is going to be extremely violent, at least this one is creative about it?) Or the dutiful subscription to the principle of Chekhov’s gun: If in the first act you have robotic guard dogs named Bennie and Jet, then in the following act, they should attack someone. (They do.)Taron Egerton on 'Kingsman' Fight Scene With Channing Tatum: 'I'd Take [Him] Any Day'


Photo: Michael Rozman/Warner Bros.  
Ellen DeGeneres is hopping into the diamond bath!The Ellen DeGeneres Show host hilariously parodied Taylor Swift's viral "Look What You Made Me Do" video on Friday, inserting herself into some of the production's most memorable shots.Check it out below.MORE: Victim or Villain? Why Taylor Swift Is Battling Her Old Selves in ‘Look What You Made Me Do’Of course, the new cut of the video is for more than just good fun. As Taylor's new hit has notched over 425 million views on YouTube, Ellen has challenged every one of those viewers to donate $1 to Hand In Hand hurricane relief by visiting HandInHand2017.com.Meanwhile, though Ellen wasn't really there for the "Look What You Made Me Do" video, there are some very interesting on-set secrets.Watch the video below for more.Set Secrets From Taylor Swift's 'Look What You Made Me Do' Video Revealed!  Related GalleryCelebs Give Back




Tamar Braxton is serious about retiring from music.“There are a lot of things that I want to do, and a lot of things that are in the works,” she tells ET. “There's a lot of things that are going on in my relationship and me being close to this music industry, and whatever I can do to eliminate all of the stress and problems off of my relationship, I would rather do that.”“My husband [music executive Vince Herbert] and I work very close together and it's really hard, you know?” Tamar continues. “Not only do we work together, he is my baby daddy and, you know, we've been together forever. He's my best friend. It's a lot of things to discuss and argue about.”Tamar says her new album, Bluebird of Happiness, out Sept. 29, will be her last record ever, though she still plans to write songs for other artists.EXCLUSIVE: Tamar Braxton on 'Aftermath' of Parent's Divorce & Lessons She's Learned From Her Marriage“I am nerv-cited,” she says of the release. “I'm nervous and excited at the same time. This has just been a project that's been so close to me, and I've worked really hard on it and it was kind of, like, the soundtrack to my life at the time.”The record, which Tamar describes as “transparent, real and unapologetic,” is the star’s diary of the last year or so, featuring her responses to infidelity rumors and family drama. That includes her father’s marriage to a woman Tamar alleges he cheated on her mom with since Tamar was 11 years old.“It's really about showing who you are and not being afraid to talk about experiences you have gone through,” Tamar shares. “It's just about, you know, stripping down and being real.”“This album is just where I was in my life at the time,” she adds. “You know, nothing in my life felt right. And everything felt like it was a question mark that surrounded it and, you know, I just had to write and sing about it.”EXCLUSIVE: Tamar Braxton Breaks Down Crying During Intense Family Dinner on 'Braxton Family Values'The title comes from an old folktale about a bluebird who wakes up one day itching for a new life. The bird travels the globe looking for something better, only to find itself back at home -- and happy. Tamar says that’s exactly the journey she went on before writing this record.“It's OK to not know who you are!” she admits. “It's OK to go and figure it out, because I think, once you figure it out, you evolve. And that's what life is all about, is evolving.”Some songs on the record might give fans a window into Tamar and Vince’s marriage, and Tamar says she -- and Vince -- are good with that.“He calls it my best work yet,” she gushes. “I'm just excited that everybody's finally hearing it.”But again, this will be the last time she opens up about home life in such an intimate way. She’s ready to turn her focus to her family, noting that her marriage is the part of her life she sometimes let’s fall by the wayside..“This is just my job,” she says of singing. “When I go home, that's my home. I always want to keep my home a sanctuary and somewhere safe. Not just for me, but for my husband and my kid.”EXCLUSIVE: Tamar Braxton's Husband Vince Herbert Shuts Down Divorce RumorTamar and Vince’s only son, Logan, recently turned four years old -- and watching him grow up has changed the reality star’s idea about not having more kids.“I'm so mad at myself, because I wanted the Partridge Family and I didn't know it until, you know, Logan got to be a certain age,” she admits. “I'm like, what? Yeah, I really want more kids. I would love to have at least five.”Tamar, 40, adds that she doesn’t know “where they’re going to come from” -- she’s experienced infertility issues in the past -- but still thinks about expanding her family a lot. She says she might try to have more kids once she wraps up her Bluebird of Happiness era, which includes performing on XScape’s reunion tour.“Everybody knows a Tamartian tour is the best place to be in life,” she notes. “Get your life, honey!”After the tour, there’s also a possible return to daytime TV for Tamar. She exited The Real after two seasons back in spring 2016 -- and tells ET she’s eyeing a comeback.“I miss it,” she spills. “I can't wait to get back. That's what I'm gonna say.”Bluebird of Happiness is available for pre-order now with a couple of instant track downloads, including Tamar’s new single, “Blind," and Tamar and Vince returns for a new season on We tv this fall. For more from our chat, watch the full interview below.


Photo: Getty Images  
It’s time to revamp those playlists, people!Whatever your music genre of choice, there are plenty of new options this fall from LPs to tours. While several stars including Taylor Swift, Blake Shelton and more have confirmed release dates (See: That New-New, below), that’s not stopping us from putting out some positive vibes for a few albums we are hoping to see sooner rather than later (Wishful Thinking).Read on for 35 of the latest musical offerings set to hit your earbuds this season.Taylor Swift, Kelly Clarkson, Shania Twain and More: The Queens of Fall MusicThat New-NewThe Killers: Wonderful Wonderful
Sept. 22The Killers return with their fifth studio album, their first since 2012’s Battle Born, featuring the singles “The Man” and “Run for Cover.” “I wouldn't feel this excited if the songs weren't true,” lead singer Brandon Flowers told Billboard this summer. “We’ve been hearing a lot of false music out there -- music designed for the nondiscerning listener. It’s always good when you have that satiated feeling, the desire that’s quenched, when you have substance behind it. That’s when you know you have something.” Macklemore: Gemini
Sept. 22Don’t expect to find any “Thrift Shop” reboots on Macklemore’s latest album -- it’s his first offering in more than a decade without collaborator Ryan Lewis on-board. Still, Gemini is certainly not short in the collab department, featuring vocals from Kesha, Lil Yachty and Skylar Grey, to name a few. Fergie: Double Dutchess
Sept. 22It's been more than a decade but The Dutchess is BACK with her long-awaited sophomore solo effort, Double Dutchess. Fergie will release the 13-track visual album via her own label, Dutchess Music, featuring collaborations with Rick Ross, Nicki Minaj, YG and, adorably, 4-year-old son Axl Jack (on the song "Enchante (Carine)").EXCLUSIVE: Fergie Talks Split From Josh Duhamel: 'We're Just Not a Romantic Couple Anymore'Chris Janson: Everybody
Sept. 22“It’s no pun intended, but literally I wrote it for everybody,” Janson told ET of his sophomore effort, for which he wrote or co-wrote every track. “I thought it was the perfect title because there is something on here from every walk of life and there’s something for everybody. Maybe you don’t really like traditional country music. That’s cool, we’ve got other things on there. Maybe you do, and that’s great too because we’ve got the best of both worlds and everything in between.”“I feel like people are really getting a piece of my heart and really what I wanted to say,” he continued. “I’ve never tried to change the world, I always just want to put a smile on somebody’s face and that’s exactly what I think we did with this album.” 2017 Fall TV Preview: Love It, Date It or Leave It?Miley Cyrus: Younger Now
Sept. 29Cyrus is getting back to basics with her Bangerz and Dead Petz follow-up, Younger Now. The 24-year-old showcased a more stripped-down sound on its lead single, “Malibu,” written for beau Liam Hemsworth, doubling down on promises to return to her country roots with the twangy “Inspired” and by channeling godmother Dolly Parton in her “Younger Now” music video. Shania Twain: Now
Sept. 29"I wrote all of this music myself, so it's all on me. If fans don't like it, I just have to take that on myself, but it's worth it, because even if a small amount of people are inspired by it, I've done what I set out to do," Twain told ET earlier this year. In her first new album since 2002, Twain is putting it all out there, working through everything from the end of her 16-year marriage, temporarily losing her voice to Lyme disease, to the start of a new marriage to Frederic Thiebaud. It seems to be perfectly encapsulated in Now’slead single, “Life’s About to Get Good,” which was released earlier this summer.Dolly Parton, I Believe in You
Sept. 29The country queen is channeling her inner fairy on her first children’s album 50 years after her debut was released. I Believe in You will include a new version of “Coat of Many Colors,” along with songs like “Responsibility,” “Brave Little Soldier” and “I Am a Rainbow.” (Yes, Dolly, you certainly are.) Demi Lovato: Tell Me You Love Me
Sept. 29Lovato’s sixth studio album builds on her song of summer Platinum smash, “Sorry Not Sorry,” showing off her jaw-dropping vocal range with the powerful sobriety anthem, “You Don’t Do It for Me Anymore,” and delivering soulful swoon on the title track, “Tell Me You Love Me.” The album features collaborations with a lengthy list of songwriters and producers, including Oak, Sean Douglas and John Hill, Stint and DJ Mustard, among others.Gwen Stefani: You Make It Feel Like Christmas
Oct. 6Is October too soon to get in the Christmas spirit? Stefani is getting a jump on the holiday season with You Make It Feel Like Christmas, which features beau Blake Shelton’s vocals on the title track. Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton Relationship Update -- What the Future Holds for 'The Voice' CouplePink: Beautiful Trauma 
Oct. 13PInk has been busier than ever this year, adjusting to life as a family of four, touring the world, shutting down awards shows and gearing up to release her first new album in five years. Beautiful Trauma will feature the politically charged “What About Us” and, if we were the betting kind, we’d bet on plenty more empowering, anthemic and maybe even heartbreaking offerings. We’re glad you’re back, Pink! St. Vincent: MASSEDUCTION
Oct. 13St. Vincent’s summer track, “New York,” is a mournful breakup ballad, but the accompanying video, directed by Alex Da Corte, is anything but. Full of vivid colors and dazzling backdrops, the video offers a striking contrast to the singer’s disdain for the “motherf**ker” that wronged her. “I think Annie's New York is the New York of my dreams -- one that is blurry and fractured, dreamy and flat," Da Corte said in a statement to ET. “It is the Toontown to my Hollywood. It is beautiful but slightly out of reach.”The full-length album, MASSEDUCTION, is co-produced by St. Vincent (aka Annie Clark) and Jack Antonoff. According to a press release, it includes lyrical themes of “power and sex, imperiled relationships and death.” Beck: Colors
Oct. 13It’s been more than three years since Beck’s GRAMMY-winning Morning Phase, with Colors marking his 13th overall studio album. The artist told NME to expect 10 songs that are  “simple and uplifting and galvanizing, where the spirit moves you, that kind of feeling. Those are the hardest.”Gucci Mane: Mr. Davis
Oct. 13After the release date was pushed back a month, we'll have to wait a little longer for the rapper's 11th studio record. Gucci dropped a collaboration with The Weeknd, "Curve," last week. The album boasts several features, including Migos, A$AP Rocky, ScHoolboy Q and Big Sean, which means it will hopefully be worth the wait.Darius Rucker: When Was the Last Time
Oct. 20Rucker teamed with producer Ross Copperman on his sixth solo endeavor, resulting in a fresh, new sound. “He’s young and high energy so I’m really excited for people to hear it,” Rucker tells ET. “There’s one song with me and Jason Aldean and Charles Kelley and Luke Bryan and it’s a lot of fun. … Those guys are my friends. We hang out and play golf and talk. Luke keeps telling me he’s gonna take me hunting.”Chris Young: Losing Sleep
Oct. 20Just days after his induction into the historic Grand Ole Opry, Young will unveil his sixth studio album. The release follows a banner year for the country star, who scored a GRAMMY nomination in 2016 for his megahit duet with Cassadee Pope, “Think of You.” This time around, Young appears to be flying solo on all 10 of the album cuts. Weezer: Pacific Daydream
Oct. 27Weezer’s 11th studio album features the tracks “Feels Like Summer” and “Beach Boys,” and was once described by frontman Rivers Cuomo as if “the Beach Boys and The Clash fell in love by the ocean and had one hell of an amazing baby.”Kelly Clarkson: The Meaning of Life
Oct. 27“THIS is the album I’ve always wanted to make,” Clarkson gushed of her Atlantic Records debut, Meaning of Life. When the American Idol alum first announced her label change back in June, she promised to deliver albums in a variety of different genres down the line -- country, Broadway and pop, among them -- but up first: “a soulful record.” And, so far, she’s delivered with the ultra-sexy single, “Love So Soft.”Ty Dolla $ign: Beach House 3
Oct. 27Dolla $ign continues his prolific release schedule with the third installment of Beach House, which the rapper previously announced would be a full album, rather than a mixtape. We've heard "Love U Better" featuring Lil Wayne and The-Dream back in July, and "So Am I" and "Dawsin’s Breek" featuring Jeremih. The album also features other collaborations, including Skrillex, and will arrive just in time for the end of October.Blake Shelton: Texoma Shore
Nov. 3Texoma Shore is Shelton’s 11th studio album and represents something of a homecoming for the Oklahoma native. "Lake Texoma has always been a place of great memories, new and old," Shelton said in a press release announcing the project. "I literally recorded this album on its shore so it’s full circle for me to take the love of this place and my love of country music."Gwen Stefani's Kids Adorably Dance in Blake Shelton's New Music Video -- Watch!Kelsea Ballerini: Unapologetically
Nov. 3With her sophomore album, Ballerini is out to show a more grown-up side of herself. "I feel like it'll be different, but not in a drastic way where anybody feels like I'm trying to change my identity. It's not like that," she told ET earlier this year. "My first record, I really wanted it to capture 12-21, so it's younger and youthful and it's flirty. This one's definitely more mature because I'm writing it from 21-23 and my life's changed a lot. I went through a gross breakup and then I had some growing up discovery years, and then I met [fiance Morgan Evans]. So I think it captures all of that."Taylor Swift: reputation
Nov. 10Swift's highly anticipated 1989 follow-up is undoubtedly poised for a huge release, with its lead single, “Look What You Made Me Do,” already shattering records across the board. While the songwriter is showing off a fiery new side of herself -- both lyrically and sonically with “Look,” pushing her pop sensibilities further than ever before -- the 15-track album also promises to deliver new twists on the catchy love songs that made her a star (“...Ready for It?,” for starters). Various Artists (Issa Rae, SZA and more): Insecure (Music From the HBO Original Series), Season 2
Sept. 8In addition to a stellar season two, Issa Rae and music supervisor Kier Lehman made sure Insecure had all-new music from some of hip-hop and R&B’s buzziest artists featured on the show. “TV and soundtracks are ways of discovery that are becoming more and more prominent,” Lehman told Vulture. “We want to be a place for artists that wouldn’t have this opportunity for exposure to come to and have fans connect with through the scenes.” In addition to Rae’s hilarious raps, the soundtrack features not one, but two songs from 2017’s breakout star SZA, including the new record, “Quicksand.”
 Wishful Thinking…This section is titled “Wishful Thinking” because, well, none of these albums actually have release dates yet. However, these artists have been teasing us with new singles, hints and, in some cases, promises of new full-lengths to be delivered by the end of the year. Here’s what we’re keeping our fingers crossed for in the upcoming months… Chris Stapleton: From a Room Vol. 2
TBD If loving two Stapleton records in the same calendar year is wrong, we don’t want to be right… From a Room: Vol. 1 was released in May and, at the time, plans to release Vol. 2 later in the year were announced. No word yet on an exact street date. Tim McGraw and Faith Hill: Untitled Duets Album
TBDAs the country couple’s Soul2Soul tour rolls on through October, we’re still waiting on official details for their impending duets album on Sony Music Entertainment, which is expected to feature their latest song, “Speak to a Girl.” Jennifer Lopez: Untitled Spanish-Language Album
TBDIt’s been nearly a year since J.Lo announced that she was teaming up with ex-hubby Marc Anthony to produce her forthcoming Spanish-language LP. While fans were anticipating an October 2017 release from the Bronx-born superstar, an official release date has not yet been announced. We did, however, get our first taste of the album in the form of a dance-y new single, “Ni Tu Ni Yo.” Post Malone: Beerbongs & Bentleys
TBDMalone hasn't come out with a release date since announcing his sophomore album at the end of last year, but the Texas-by-way-of-New York rapper finally dropped the album's lead single, "rockstar," featuring 21 Savage, which has been dominating Spotify's US, Global and Viral 50 charts.Travis Scott & Quavo
TBDWith Quavo and Migos' at large virtual ubiquity on music features this year, the Atlanta rapper's collaboration with Scott is the newest hotly anticipated hip-hop collaboration record. While no release date has been announced, Quavo told Montreality in a recent interview that the pair have recorded over 20 tracks for the project.Marshmello
TBDThe 21-year-old DJ looks poised to breakout from the "extravagantly masked" EDM artists category with high-profile collaborations, including one with Selena Gomez teased earlier this summer, and "Silence," Marshmello's new single with Khalid, rising on streaming charts now. No release date yet, but this one's been bubbling up for awhile and we expect a release sooner rather than later this year.Sam Smith
TBDSmith made his triumphant return to the spotlight earlier this month with the melancholy “Too Good at Goodbyes,” the first single from his highly anticipated sophomore album. "There was a period, when making the record, that I was in a really bad place,’" he told Elton Johnin an interview forAttitude magazine. "‘I got dumped, which wasn’t very nice. Writing music about that kind of thing is normally like therapy for me, but when I got dumped this time 'round I just couldn’t write for about two months... My team had to force me to get into the studio, because I almost felt as if I didn’t want to do it any more. So, there were moments on there where it got a bit intense and I started to lose myself."A release date for Smith’s next album has not yet been announced. 2017 Fall TV Preview: Meet the 9 Breakout Stars You Need to Know!Honorable Mention
The summer festival circuit has wrapped for the year, but there are still plenty of great live shows to look forward to as the temperatures drop, plus, a behind-the-scenes look at one of pop music’s biggest stars. Gaga: Five Foot Two 
Streaming on Netflix beginning Sept. 22Gaga takes viewers inside the making of her 2016 album, Joanne, in this intimate look at her life. Directed by Chris Mourkarbel, the documentary debuted at the Toronto International Film Festival earlier this year. 9 Times Lady Gaga Got Super Real in ‘Five Foot Two’Katy Perry's Witness Tour 
Supporting Acts: Noah Cyrus, Purity Ring, Carly Rae JepsenBefore she takes over as the anchor judge on American Idol, Perry is reminding fans what she’s made of with a larger-than-life arena tour named for her 2017 album. Kesha’s Rainbow TourKesha isn’t letting an ongoing legal battle keep her from spreading the love. She’ll bring her acclaimed Rainbow on the road throughout the fall, hitting several major U.S. cities. The solo trek is Kesha’s first since her 2013 Warrior Tour.Jay-Z’s 4:44 TourHova is set to play 31 dates across North America this fall, beginning in Anaheim, California, on Oct. 27 and concluding in Inglewood, California, on Dec. 21. Earlier this summer, Jay-Z’s 4:44 album reached Platinum status just five days after its release.JAY-Z Explains the Origins of Twins Rumi and Sir's NamesParamore’s After Laughter TourHayley Williams and Co. continue to support their After Laughter album with a North American tour this fall, running through mid-October.Janet Jackson’s State of the World TourNewly single and a new mom, Jackson is embracing her new life and pouring herself into delivering an unforgettable show for her fans. "Despite how life has changed for her… if anything, she is even more dedicated and more focused for some reason," the tour’s creative director, Gil Duldulao, tells ET. "That's just the professional she is. If she loves what she does -- and she loves being onstage -- the work ethic doesn't change. I think just timing of the day is different, but other than that, she's still going strong."
 With additional reporting and writing by Stacy Lambe and Alex Ungerman.Follow Sophie on Twitter & Instagram.


Bohnes has your favorite new track!The 28-year-old singer, whose real name is Alex Deleon and is best known as the former frontman for the band The Cab, just dropped his first single, "Six Feet Under," and its accompanying music video.  Directed by Justin Clough, the video was shot at the abandoned Nara Dreamland theme park in Japan, which was built in 1961 to look almost identical to Disneyland. Bohnes and his crew snuck in to film the clip before it was permanently torn down at the end of 2016. EXCLUSIVE: Hear Danielle Bradbery's Thomas Rhett, Jaren Johnston-Penned Song, 'Hello Summer'The pop track was produced by Matt Johnson and written with Bryan Sammis, and is the first single from his forthcoming debut album. "I have been working on this record for the past two years, backpacking around the world for inspiration and taking bits and pieces from everywhere I went," Bohnes tells ET. "I can’t wait to share the music and the incredible visuals we have captured with everyone."The artist is currently is dating Victoria's Secret model Josephine Skriver. When asked why his stunning girlfriend isn't starring in the music video, Bohnes says it was "because there is a song written about her on the album, so of course we had to save her for that one."EXCLUSIVE: Sammi Sanchez Honors Her Latin Heritage With New Single 'Hombre'Check out the music video for "Six Feet Under" below. For more new music, watch below!EXCLUSIVE PREMIERE: Sammi Sanchez's 'Hombre' -- Listen!




Photo: Getty Images / Jill Soloway, Shonda Rhimes, Ilana Glazer and Abbi Jacobson, Amy Sherman-Palladino  
Following The Handmaid’s Tale and Big Little Lies’ big wins at the Emmys, where women truly shone this year, it’s hard not to celebrate the women behind the scenes responsible for some of TV’s best scripted programming.The fall will continue the momentum with a number of new and returning shows created, produced, written and directed by women. And this year, several networks have launched programs to encourage and diversify the creative teams behind TV. NBC, which says all of its new and returning shows have female writers in their writers rooms and has female producers on 14 scripted series, has announced an initiative called Female Forward. The program, starting during the 2018-19 season, will give 10 female directors the opportunity to shadow on at least three episodes of a NBC series, with a guarantee to direct one in-season episode. It’s similar to FX and longtime collaborator Ryan Murphy’s current program, Half initiative, which aims to creative equal opportunities for women and minorities behind the camera. In 2016, the number of female and diverse directors on the network’s shows was 51 percent, up from 12 percent in the previous season. And on Murphy’s shows, like American Horror Story: Cult, at least half of the episodes are directed by women. The same is true for NBC’s Law & Order True Crime: The Menendez Murders, which will see half its first season helmed by female directors including Lesli Linka Glatter, who has been nominated for five directing Emmys (including this year, when she lost to Reed Morano). Check out all the series -- new and returning -- largely directed, written and produced by women coming this fall.2017 Fall Preview: ET's Complete Coverage9JKL (CBS)Dana Klein co-created the new CBS sitcom with husband (and star) Mark Feuerstein. The multicamera series is loosely based on their real-life experiences as a couple, when Feuerstein was shooting the USA series Royal Pains. Dana Honor and Wendi Trilling also serve as executive producers and longtime How I Met Your Mother director Pamela Fryman helmed the pilot.Alias Grace (Netflix)Another Margaret Atwood novel gets the TV treatment, with her 1996 fictionalized account of the 1843 murders of Thomas Kinnear and his housekeeper at the center of the story. Sarah Polley wrote and produced the new limited series, which is directed by Mary Harron. Rising Canadian actress Sarah Gadon stars with Anna Paquin in a supporting role. Director Sarah Polley and Anna Paquin in a scene from 'Alias Grace.' 
        Photo: Getty Images / Netflix
      American Horror Story: Cult(FX)In addition to producers Alexis Martin Woodall, Karen Romero and Crystal Liu, FX and Ryan Murphy are making good on their promise to include more women behind the camera with Angela Bassett, Gwyneth Horder-Payton, Jennifer Lynch, Liza Johnson, Maggie Kiley and Rachel Goldberg directing over half of Cult’s 11 episodes. “Normally you have to bring in the National Guard for that kind of stuff,” Johnson told ET of FX. The network took “this dare,” she notes, and “I think that’s kind of amazing.”Better Things (FX)Fresh off the series’ first Emmy nomination (for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series), Pamela Adlon is back with season two of Better Things, which she co-created with Louis C.K. This season, Adlon directed every episode in addition to serving as star, showrunner and co-writer. (M. Blair Breard, who also works on One Mississippi, co-executive produces.) “I have a vision and an aesthetic and a style that really lent itself to me taking over in every way on my show,” she told The Cut. “In that way it became a lot easier for me to execute this whole season.”Black Mirror: “Arkangel” (Netflix)While creator Charlie Brooker is largely the mastermind behind Black Mirror -- he has a writing credit on every episode of the series except one -- he does bring in award-winning directors to bring his anthology series alive. Season four sees Jodie Foster helming one episode, “Arkangel,” becoming the series’ first and only female director. Meanwhile, Foster has become a formidable TV (and Emmy-nominated) director, helming episodes of Netflix’s Orange Is the New Black and House of Cards, which earned Laverne Cox and Reg E. Cathey Emmy nominations and Uzo Aduba her first of two Emmy wins.Broad City (Comedy Central)Co-creators and executive producers Abbi Jacobson and Ilana Glazer are back with season four of Broad City, which has become a hilarious showcase for female friendships in addition to being a place that’s hosted a number of kick-ass female cameos, including Alia Shawkat, Cynthia Nixon, Kelly Ripa, Patricia Clarkson, Rachel Dratch, Tracee Ellis Ross and Hillary Clinton, “The extraordinary experience of not only working with two stupidly funny people -- it’s not even right how funny they are -- but on top of that, they are women and they also write and produce and edit and do all of that stuff on their show. The experience of that was the biggest and most wonderful breath of fresh air,” Ross told ET about appearing on season three, adding: “To see women in these comedic roles on a weekly basis is everything and a bag of chips!” Amy Poehler, Brooke Posch and Lilly Burns serve as executive producers, with Lucia Aniello, who wrote and directed Rough Night, serving as co-executive producer. Jodie Foster and a scene from the "Arkangel" episode of 'Black Mirror' season four. 
        Photo: Getty Images / Netflix
      Chance (Hulu)Scoring a two-season order from the get-go, Chance is back with its second installment from co-creator and showrunner Alexandra Cunningham. The Hulu original series starring Hugh Laurie follows a growing history in prestige TV for Cunningham that includes consulting on Bates Motel and writing and producing Desperate Housewives.Crazy Ex-Girlfriend (The CW)Created, written and executive produced by Aline Brosh McKenna and Rachel Bloom, Crazy Ex-Girlfriend returns for a music-filled third season. When it comes to their creative partnership, McKenna says Bloom is her soulmate. “I’ve had writing partners, producers and a number of really close collaborations -- but not one like this. We ended up writing 900 pages of material for the show. It’s productive and intense.… We have developed twin speak -- we’re basically like tree elves gibbering in our own language. No one makes me laugh harder,” she told Motto.Chicago-Law & Order Universe (NBC)Dick Wolf’s ever-expanding TV universe, which started with Law & Order and now includes Special Victims Unit, True Crime and the Chicago series (Fire, Med, P.D.), has become dominated by women behind the scenes: SVU is now executive produced by longtime writer Julie Martin and star Mariska Hargitay. True Crime, the new anthology series that launched this fall with The Menendez Murders, is executive produced by director Lesli Linka Glatter, who will helm two episodes. Half of the season’s eight episodes will be directed by women. Danielle Gelber, who helped launch the Chicago franchise, executive produces P.D. and Diane Frolov is the executive producer and co-showrunner of Med.The Deuce(HBO)The Deuce, HBO’s new series about the rise of the porn industry in 1970s New York City created by David Simon and George Pelecanos, also includes Nina K. Noble, who previously worked with Simon on Show Me a Hero, Treme and The Wire, as executive producer and star Maggie Gyllenhaal as producer. For Gyllenhaal’s part, she told ET that her role as producer was largely to give feedback on scripts. Megan Abbott and Lisa Lutz serve as co-executive producers and writers, while episodes of season one were directed by Michelle MacLaren, Uta Briesewitz and Roxann Dawson.Stephanie Savage and the cast of 'Marvel's Runaways.'
        Photo: Getty Images / Hulu
      Dynasty(The CW) andMarvel’s Runaways (Hulu)Stephanie Savage knows teen drama. The producer has helped create, write and execute some of TV’s best high school-age soaps, from The O.C. to Gossip Girl to the short-lived Carrie Diaries. Now she’s back, teaming up with longtime producing partner Josh Schwartz, to develop and produce a remake of Dynasty for a whole new generation as well as co-create and co-run Hulu’s teen Marvel series, Runaways, about six teenagers who unite against their criminal parents. Episodes of the first season are also directed by Roxann Dawson, who has had a busy 2017, Nina Lopez-Corrado and Millicent Shelton.Empire and Star (FOX)The hit hip-hop series created by Lee Daniels returns for a fourth season with a crossover with Star, creating an expanded TV universe from the filmmaker. Ilene Chaiken, who created The L Word, still serves as showrunner of Empire, with Sanaa Hamri directing and executive producing and Attica Locke as supervising producer. Starring Queen Latifah, Empire’s female-led counterpart is executive produced by longtime Daniels collaborator Pamela Oas Williams and Effie Brown, who famously butted heads with Matt Damon on Project Greenlight and produced Dear White People.The Girlfriend Experience (Starz)The anthology series created, written, directed and executive produced by Amy Seimetz along with Logan Kerrigan, is breaking from last season’s format and will follow two parallel stories focusing on entirely new characters, plotlines and locations. Seimetz’s storyline follows Bria (Carmen Ejogo), a former high-end escort who enters the Witness Protection Program and is relocated to New Mexico.Great News (NBC)After serving as producer and writer on 30 Rock and The Mindy Project, Tracey Wigfield went on to create Great News, the NBC comedy about an up-and-coming news producer and her overbearing mother, starring Briga Heelan and Andrea Martin. The show is executive produced by Tina Fey, who will guest star on season two, and longtime TV director Beth McCarthy-Miller. Maria Bamford and Ana Gasteyer in a scene from 'Lady Dynamite' season two. 
        Photo: Getty Images / Netflix
      Jane the Virgin(The CW)Created and executive produced by Jennie Snyder Urman, Jane the Virgin returns with season four as Jane (Gina Rodriguez) is confronted by her first love, Adam, played by guest star Tyler Posey. The show is also produced by Corinne Brinkerhoff, Gina Lamar, Meredith Averill and Eva Longoria, who also directed an episode in season three. “I absolutely love seeing a Zoe Saldana succeeding. I love seeing a Gina Rodriguez succeeding,” Longoria told ET about women who empower her and what it means to champion each other. “Their success is my success. They're opening doors. Whether it's me opening doors for Gina or Zoe opening a door for me, we're all tied together.”Lady Dynamite (Netflix)The second season of Lady Dynamite sees the return of Maria Bamford, who co-executive produces with Pam Brady, in this delightfully twisted sitcom about the comedian adjusting to life in Los Angeles after spending time away recovering for bipolar disorder. The show also stars Ana Gasteyer, Mary Kay Place and Mo Collins.The Long Road Home (Nat Geo)Based on Martha Raddatz’s bestseller, the new scripted drama from Nat Geo chronicles the events of “Black Sunday,” when a platoon was ambushed in Sadr City, Baghdad. Raddatz serves as a production consultant on the series, which includes episodes written by Amy Louise Johnson, Kelly Wiles and Lana Cho.The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel (Amazon)Amazon’s new period drama centers on a 1950s housewife (Rachel Brosnahan) who turns to standup comedy after her husband admits to having an affair. The series was created by Amy Sherman-Palladino and co-stars Alex Borstein and Marin Hinkle, with a guest appearance by Jane Lynch. Mindy Kaling and a scene from 'The Mindy Project.'
        Photo: Getty Images / Hulu
      The Mindy Project (Hulu)Created by Mindy Kaling, The Mindy Project is now in its sixth and final season on Hulu. Over the course of the series, there have been a number of women who have written and directed episodes. In the final season, Lang Fisher serves as co-executive producer as well as director alongside writers Mackenzie Dohr, Miranda Berman and Sonia Kharkar, Kaling’s longtime assistant, and directors Daniella Eisman, Linda Mendoza and Geeta Patel. With Mindy’s role front and center, Kaling used the character to write someone that was flawed. “I don’t want to be the sweet wife,” she recently told The New York Times. “And yeah, if that can be the legacy, and I had really funny jokes and said crazy things that women had not said before, then that’s really nice.”Newton’s Law (Acorn TV)Deb Cox and Fiona Eagger, the creators and executive producers of Miss Fisher's Murder Mysteries (a must-watch now streaming on Netflix and Acorn TV), are back with another Melbourne crime series. This time, the story focuses a suburban solicitor who attempts to return to her briefly glorious career at the bar. Much of the first season was directed by Jennifer Leacey and Jennifer Perrott and written by Belinda Chayko, Elizabeth Coleman, Elizabeth Packett and Ellie Beaumont. One Mississippi(Amazon)Co-created by Tig Notaro and Diablo Cody, One Mississippi is a semi-autobiographical series about a Los Angeles-based radio host who returns to Mississippi when she learns that her mother is being taken off life support, and ultimately stays to help care for the family’s affairs after her death. Season two, which is now streaming on Amazon, is executive produced by Kate Robin and M. Blair Breard, who also helps out on Better Things, with episodes written by Stephanie Allynne, Cara DiPaolo and Zoe Jarman and directed by Wendey Stanzler and Minkie Spiro.Outlander (Starz)While created for TV by longtime sci-fi TV producer Ronald D. Moore, Starz’s sweeping drama that travels through the ages is supported by a large female team that includes executive producers Anne Kenney, Maril Davis and Toni Graphia, co-producer Elicia Bessette and season three directors Charlotte Brandstrom, Jennifer Getzinger and Norma Bailey, and writers Joy Blake, Karen Campbell and Shannon Goss. Sarah-Violet Bliss and a scene from 'Search Party' on TBS.
        Photo: Getty Images / TBS
      Queen Sugar (OWN)The OWN drama returns with the second half of season two, helmed by an all-female directing team -- Garrett Bradley, Kat Candler, Julie Dash, DeMane Davis, Cheryl Dunye, Aurora Guerrero, Amanda Marsalis, Maryam Keshavarz, Liesl Tommy and Christina Voros -- handpicked by creator and executive producer Ava DuVernay.Search Party (TBS)The mysterious dark comedy starring Alia Shawkat was created by Sarah-Violet Bliss and Charles Rogers, who both write and direct the series, which returns in November. The pair previously wrote for Wet Hot American Summer: First Day of Camp and Wet Hot American Summer: Ten Years Later. Lilly Burns, who works on Broad City, Younger and Difficult People, also serves as executive producer. Shut Eye (Hulu)As executive producer of Shut Eye, the psychic noir series starring Jeffrey Donovan, Melissa Bernstein is in charge of a lot. As head of the television division of Gran Via Productions, according to the New York Times, she helps staff the writers rooms, which now include Amy Berg and Katrina Cabrera-Ortega, hires music supervisors, editors and cinematographers and chooses directors, including Meera Menon, Sheree Folkson and Jennifer Getzinger. “I’m soup to nuts,” she told the paper during a visit to the set last year.SMILF (Showtime)Created, executive produced, written and directed by Frankie Shaw, SMILF is a new series based on Shaw’s Sundance Film Festival Jury Award-winning short film of the same name. The series follows the life of Bridgette (Shaw), a Boston native whose desires for relationships, sex and a career collide with the realities of being a single mom. Janice Williams (HBO’s Confirmation) also serves as executive producer and Rosie O’Donnell co-stars in her first series regular TV role. Ava DuVernay and a scene from 'Queen Sugar' season two. 
        Photo: Getty Images / OWN
      Star Trek: Discovery (CBS All Access)The longtime Star Trek franchise returns to TV for the first time since Enterprise ended in 2005. Discovery, which notably has shaken up traditional cast of characters with Sonequa Martin-Green leading as USS Shenzhou First Officer Michael Burnham, is executive produced by Heather Kadin (Limitless) and Gretchen J. Berg (Revenge) with Kirsten Beyer writing and Lee Rose directing one episode.  Teachers (TV Land)TV Land’s original comedy about a group of elementary school teachers was created and executive produced by and stars The Katydids -- Caitlin Barlow, Katy Colloton, Cate Freedman, Kate Lambert, Katie O'Brien and Kathryn Renée Thomas -- with Allison Brie serving as executive producer. “I think my favorite part about this dream that we’ve all achieved together is that the six of us are women, and we’re friends and we’re doing it together,” Freedman told Splitsider. “There’s not another show that’s an all-female ensemble that started the way we did, does exactly what we do, and does it to the depth that we do it.” Ten Days in the Valley (ABC)Created by Tassie Cameron, the new thriller starring Kyra Sedgwick (who also serves as executive producer) tells the story of a television producer trying to balance a complicated work and home life after her daughter disappears in the middle of the night. The series is also executive produced by Jill Littman, Sherry White, Dana Goldberg and Marcy Ross.TGIT (ABC)Shonda Rhimes’ Thursday night lineup is back, with Grey’s Anatomy returning for season 14(!), Scandal debuting its final season and How to Get Away With Murder returning with the newly Oscar-minted star Viola Davis. Created by Rhimes, Grey’s is executive produced by Betsy Beers, Krista Vernoff, Zoanne Clack and Debbie Allen. Scandal, also created by Rhimes, is executive produced by Beers. HTGAWM sees Rhimes and Beers serving as executive producers. All three shows have become a place for women writers and directors, with longtime star Chandra Wilson helming the most among her female counterparts. Elizabeth Berger and Milo Ventimiglia and Mandy Moore in a scene from 'This Is Us' season two.
        Photo: Getty Images / NBC
      This Is Us (NBC)Elizabeth Berger is one-half of the duo responsible for This Is Us season two as co-showrunner and co-executive producer, alongside Isaac Aptaker. The two were promoted to run the show alongside creator Dan Fogelman after penning some of season one’s most pivotal episodes. They have a long history of writing together, getting started on FOX’s Friends With Benefits before first working with Fogelman on The Neighbors and Grandfathered. Season two will also see Regina King stepping in to direct an episode, making her the second high-profile guest director following Helen Hunt in season one.Top of the Lake: China Girl (Sundance TV)On the second, stunning installment of Top of the Lake, co-creator, writer and director Jane Campion takes Robin’s (Elisabeth Moss) story from a remote New Zealand town to Sydney, Australia, where she investigates the murder of a Chinese prostitute while trying to connect with a daughter she gave up for adoption. As for returning to Top of the Lake, Moss told ET that she saw it as an opportunity “to show real humans and real women that are very complicated and have very different feelings and emotions about things.”Transparent (Amazon)Creator Jill Soloway has long called for an end to the patriarchy by putting more women behind the camera and in her writers’ room. On her other Amazon series, I Love Dick, the writers’ room was 100 percent women, a “choice,” she told ET, “to create a room without the male gaze.” Transparent, which is back with its fourth season, is executive produced by Andrea Sperling and Bridget Bedard, with episodes written by Faith Soloway, Stephanie Kornick and Our Lady J and directed by Soloway, Allison Liddi-Brown, Andrea Arnold, Sarah Gavron, Marta Cunningham and actress Gaby Hoffmann.Will & Grace (NBC)After initially ending in 2006, Will & Grace is back with its original stars -- Eric McCormack, Debra Messing, Megan Mullally and Sean Hayes -- and producing team, creators David Kohan and Max Mutchnick and Tracy Poust. After writing and producing for Ugly Betty and serving as executive producer on 2 Broke Girls and The Crazy Ones, Poust returns as executive producer on the revival, which has already been renewed for a second season. 


Jimmy Kimmel has found a cause beyond comedy."I never imagined I would get involved in something like this, this is not my area of expertise."Despite the 49-year-old comedian’s concession during the first of three monologues this week calling out Senator Bill Cassidy for what Kimmel believes are broken promises of the Cassidy-coined “Jimmy Kimmel Test” in the proposed Graham-Cassidy healthcare bill, the Jimmy Kimmel Live! host has become an unlikely leading voice in the fight to save the Affordable Care Act.While Cassidy himself and proponents of the bill argue that Kimmel misrepresents what it actually does, many healthcare analysts have come to the comedian’s defense, stating that he paints a more accurate picture of what the bill could do.Wherever you fall in this debate, it’s hard to argue that Kimmel hasn’t done his homework. His son, Billy’s, own struggles with congenital heart disease has made Kimmel a passionate Obamacare advocate, and it’s shown in both his heartfelt monologues, as well as his social media presence. EXCLUSIVE: Jimmy Kimmel's Son is 'Doing Great,' Will Have Surgery AgainHere are 11 of the most emotional moments from Kimmel this week.1. "Bill Cassidy just lied right to my face.""So 'yup' is Washington for 'nope,' I guess," Kimmel said in his first monologue, after showing a clip of the senator vowing on his show to only support a healthcare plan that passes the "Jimmy Kimmel Test."2. "I am politicizing my son's health problems because I have to.""My family has health insurance, we don't have to worry about this," Kimmel argued in defense of himself joining the healthcare debate. "But other people do, so you can shove your disgusting comments where your doctor won't be giving you a prostate exam once they take your healthcare benefits away."3. "You have to do this, you can't just click 'like' on this video.""If this bill isn't good enough for you, call your congressperson," Kimmel urged his viewers.4. "There's a new 'Jimmy Kimmel Test' for you."
"You're welcome to stop by and take it anytime," Kimmel concluded his first monologue.MORE: Jimmy Kimmel Brings 5-Month-Old Son Billy to L.A. Fundraiser Event -- See the Adorable Family Pics!5. "Which part don't I understand?""Oh, I get it, I don't understand, 'cause I'm a talk show host," Kimmel said in his second monologue, in response to Cassidy telling CNN that Kimmel "doesn't understand" his bill. "Help me out, which part don't I understand? Is it the part where you cut $243 billion from healthcare assistance? ... Where states would be allowed to let insurance companies price you out of coverage for having pre-existing conditions?" And he went on.
"Or could it be, Senator Cassidy, that I do understand, and you got caught with your G.O.Penis out?" he added.6. "I don't get anything out of this."Kimmel's biggest argument in this whole thing has been that he has the means to help his son, but has been compelled to speak out because so many families don't."Brian [Kilmeade], you phony little creep. Ooooh, I'll pound you next time I see you," said Kimmel, saving some of his harshest words for the Fox & Friends host, who Kimmel claims secretly "wants so bad to be a part of the Holllywood elite," despite rallying against it on his program.Kimmel's wife and co-head writer Molly McNearny also explained why the couple had no choice but to speak out on Twitter, writing, "It would be irresponsible knowing what we know and experiencing what we experienced to 'stay in our lane.' Move over. We're merging."7. Taking the fight to the president.After President Donald Trump personally supported Cassidy on Twitter, Kimmel replied, "That's great news Mr. President! Does that mean he'll vote against the horrible bill he wrote?"MORE: Jimmy Kimmel Shares Update on 3-Month-Old Son Billy, Reveals Which Former Presidents Reached Out8. "I'm not pretending to be an expert. I'm asking why people like you aren't listening to experts.""A lot of people have been saying I'm not qualified to talk about this, and that is true," Kimmel conceded. "I think those people forget, Bill Cassidy named this test after me. Am I supposed to be quiet about this?"While the monologues themselves have certainly shined a light on the healthcare debate, some of the most emotional moments have taken place on Kimmel's Twitter feed.9. Retweeting a fan who shared his own son's struggles with pre-existing conditions.
"This is my boy. He tries to overcome every obstacle," the fan tweeted in reply to Jason Kander, who reposted Kimmel's monologue. "A lifetime cap shouldn’t be one of them. Stop this nonsense!"10. "Thank you, Ellen, you are a good friend."Kimmel offered words of appreciation after Ellen DeGeneres tweeted out in support of his healthcare arguments, writing, "When Jimmy says call, I call. So should you. I love you, @JimmyKimmel."11. Thanking John McCainOn Friday, the Arizona senator -- who has again played close to the vest on how he'll vote on Cassidy-Graham -- publicly stated that he cannot "in good conscience" support it. Kimmel was quick to express his gratitude on Twitter and Instagram, writing, "Thank you @SenJohnMcCain for being a hero again and again and now AGAIN."EXCLUSIVE: Jimmy Kimmel Wears Fanny Pack Full of Kit Kats to Emmys, Gives Update on Son's Heart ConditionClearly, even though he's a comedian, healthcare is no laughing matter for Kimmel.Meanwhile, the late-night show host's wife, Molly McNearney, spoke to ET at the 2017 Emmys, offering a health update on the couple's son.Watch the video below for what she had to say.EXCLUSIVE: Jimmy Kimmel's Son is 'Doing Great,' Will Have Surgery Again  Related GalleryCelebs Give Back






Photo: Getty Images  
If you didn't know this by seeing her interviews, Jennifer Lawrence talks with her hands.After a screening of Mother!, hosted by The Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences, at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City on Thursday night, the 27-year-old actress and director Darren Aronofsky, who is also Lawrence's boyfriend, sat down for a Q&A about their divisive film. MORE: ‘Mother!’ Is a Movie That Must Be Discussed -- Review and Theories
        Photo: Getty Images
      While recalling a moment on set, Lawrence threw up her middle finger at the audience, which caused  Aronofsky to crack up laughing.Per usual, the Oscar winner's style was on point as she stepped out in a floral Brock Collection maxi dress, while her 48-year-old boyfriend wore a tan button-down shirt and dark slacks.MORE: Jennifer Lawrence's Boyfriend Darren Aronofsky Gushes About Her Acting -- 'She Really Went There'
        Photo: Getty Images
      In an exclusive interview with ET last week at the New York premiere of Mother!, Lawrence joked about what Aronofsky likes to see her wear while on the red carpet."She's the only person who's allowed not to [wear black], 'cause she's life," the director said. "Well, I think he's talking about my character, but I'm gonna pretend he's not," Lawrence responded to her boyfriend's "she's life" comment. EXCLUSIVE: Jennifer Lawrence on Why She Chose a Kardashian Tent Over 'Housewives' The jokes didn't stop there! When asked what has been her favorite outfit to wear thus far during the promotional tour of the film, Lawrence quipped, "I really loved the Paris [look] -- Dior with the crucifix. Darren loves it when I wear crucifixes."EXCLUSIVE: Jennifer Lawrence Jokingly Reveals What Darren Aronofsky 'Really Loves' Her to Wear  Related GalleryThey Dated?! Surprising Celebrity Hookups






Photo: Getty Images / Amazon  
In its fourth season, Transparent delves into more of the Pfefferman family ancestry and anxiety -- if the latter were possible. As the crew travels to Israel so Maura can attend a conference, the Holy Land serves as a place for revelations and realizations for everyone. Back home in California, Davina’s origin story becomes clearer as she struggles with her own illness and her place in life and stars in the first nude scene of a transperson on television. “First, television has never seen a trans person, certainly with the age I am and with the body that I have, naked on television,” says Alexandra Billings, who plays Davina. “There is a care that Jill and the writers took -- it wasn’t about fetishizing or sexualizing, and it wasn’t desexualized. It was simple, plain conversation.”Soloway, who identifies as nonbinary and uses the pronoun “they,” began Transparent pulling from their own experiences with their transgender parent. In the first season, as Jeffrey Tambor’s character transitions from identifying as Mort to Maura, her personal journey causes reverberations across her family, including her ex-wife Shelly, son Josh and daughters Sarah and Ali. The second and third seasons delve into what people think they want and, instead, their journeys to what they need. Season four is a bit of a reckoning as well, as the next leg of the Pfeffermans’ trip to self-discovery plays out not in Los Angeles so much as on camels and amidst shooting guns at dusty Israeli hills.Soloway and Billings spoke to ET about the Pfeffermans’ next phase, what Shelly, a cis white woman, might have in common with “baby Davina,” a transgender girl of color, and how they’re aiming to illuminate the true meaning of intersectionality by weaving those stories together in the next phase of this groundbreaking show.MORE: Jill Soloway on Patriarchy, Privilege and Flipping the Male GazeET: Each season of “Transparent” has a different theme, and this one seems to be how everyone is interconnected in their sadness, thanks to whatever personal demon they’re fighting.Jill Soloway: Gosh, I felt like things were getting a little less sad this season.Alexandra Billings: I did, too.Soloway: Things are getting funnier and sillier; they’re all on a trip together, there are hijinks.But there’s a dead person, Rita, following Josh around the whole time.Soloway: You’re right, there is a dead person. It’ll be less sad in season five. We think of it like a melancholy and uncomfortable pleasure you get from the pain in Transparent.Because people are growing and moving through it, like when Maura and Ali are traveling to Israel for what they think is just a conference but the trip becomes so much more.Soloway: Yeah, it’s real, hard and uncomfortable, but then it gives birth to good stuff. A lot of other shows are just all pain or all pleasure -- I’ve been trying to do the roller coaster thing.Billings: There’s a great moment that Maura has when she’s in the airport, and she puts her hands up and says, “If you need me to be a fucking chicken, I’ll be a fucking chicken!” There’s this horrible thing she’s going through, which as a trans person, you just go, “This is the most awful thing,” and Tambor pulls this gift out of the center of his heart space.Soloway: The airport scene is a pretty common thing, people want to “out” you. A lot of trans people have been through something just like that.Billings: Especially if you’re a trans person of color. Every time I travel with my wife, Chrisanne, who’s as white as white can be, security loves to touch my hair -- which I’m like, don’t touch the motherfucking hair -- I am searched and she is not. I’m flying first class now, and I or my suitcase am always stopped.You’d think going through the airport would be simple, but really… Billings: I was talking to some girlfriends of mine about the great juxtaposition in this show between about trans people who are passable and those who are not. Maura falls into the container of not passable. Shea, played by Trace Lysette, falls into the passable, and both have their sets of problems because when you look like Shea, you have to explain. Can you imagine going with someone who looks like that but her transness is completely invisible? However, Maura’s is very, very visible. Then you look at Davina -- and this has been true of my life -- and I’m on a spectrum. It really depends on where I am, if I’m passable or not. I’m very out with transness, but not everybody knows at first sight, and that’s troublesome to me.MORE: How Our Lady J Brings Authenticity -- Not Just Tokenism -- to 'Transparent'Do you feel like it’s a gift or a curse?Billings: I think it’s a curse. I don’t like it because I don’t like to have to explain my race or my transness.Speaking of that, how did you feel about the nude scene? I loved the way it was just so pedestrian, like, Davina is in bed with her man, why wouldn’t she be naked?Billings: Jill is changing the face of television. First, television has never seen a trans person, certainly with the age I am and with the body that I have, naked on television. There is a care that Jill and the writers took, because the writers need to be given credit, too. It wasn’t about fetishizing or sexualizing, and it wasn’t desexualized. It was simple, plain conversation, and you’re looking and then go, “Oh, what the --” It takes you into the situation.How did you feel about it, since trans nudity has become so politicized, especially with Laverne Cox having been vocal about saying people don’t have the right to ask her about her body?Billings: I’ve talked to Laverne about this at length, and she since has gone a little away from that, not too far. I go way away from it. I don’t want it to be my whole life, but it’s actually one of the reasons I wanted to do this. I actually talked to Jill about this and said, “I think it’s time,” because if we don’t have the conversation, the situation gets bigger. If you have the conversation, you can be done with it.In interviews, you’ve said that seeing other trans people on television stopped you from taking a fistful of pills. How does it feel to be on the other side of that coin and be the vision of representation for someone else?Billings: I feel insanely lucky, truly and deeply blessed and constantly grateful -- constantly. There was a girlfriend of mine who Trace and I went to lunch with recently, she’s of a certain age, and she’s been living in stealth with her transness. During lunch, she turned to Trace, and she said, very sincerely, “Because of you and because of this show, I now have the strength to stop lying.” This is not a 20-year-old child, this is someone who has had to live this way for a very, very long time. There is this show that has cracked open a conversation that certainly I never thought would be possible, so just to even be a small part of this is quite remarkable.Alexandra Billings as Davina on 'Transparent' season four. 
        Photo: Amazon
      Are there going to be any trans characters who become series regulars?Soloway: In season five there should be, there could be and we want there to be. Maura and Davina will be living in a house together, so between family, the Pacific Palisades, local politics and hijinks, anything is possible.Jill, a while back you told ET that there wouldn’t be any backstory for characters like Davina, because the show is focused on the Pfeffermans. Now, Davina has an origin story. What changed?Soloway: I don’t know, we don’t really plan it. It comes from this organic place, so to be able to say there will be a trans character who will be a season regular, we’ve tried to do things like that. But in the writers room we’re always trying to figure out what the story is organically with the family. I think now that they’re living together, it’ll be easier. It’s so hard to represent the trans community, which the show does, because it’s called Transparent. We have a cis man in the title role, and that’s problematic, and we have this whole other family, these characters who are not trans, who are considered part of the show. It’s always a struggle to tell all the stories we want to tell. Also, I feel like trans men are like, “Where the fuck is our story?” and gay men say, “What do you have against gay men?”Switching back to Davina’s arc, did the writers cull anything from your personal pageant experience, Alexandra, from competing in the Miss Continental pageant or performing at the Queen Mary?Billings: I remember talking a little bit about it, but that was mostly from the writers’ brains. They’re feverish little manic things. I’ll tell you, though, that scene with Trace in the dressing room where she’s talking to baby Davina --played by Jaime, a former student of mine from Cal State Long Beach -- she is so freaking good. Trace brings her whole experience so bravely into that room, and just watching it, I fell apart. It resonates so deeply with that time period, and it’s a little portal that very few cis people are privy to. It’s the genius of this show, because you get a real look -- and it’s every dressing room I was ever in -- into where we go, whether it’s by choice or by happenstance or by must, but you get a real peek into that world, and that’s extraordinary.It was interesting how the show touched on trans homelessness, when Jaime asks, “Can I stay with you?” and two girls say no because “you know I’m staying with so-and-so.” Soloway: That’s a big question, especially for women, who they perform for for the rent. Cis women, trans women in patriarchy, a way that a lot of people get their access is through men. So when you’re getting your access through men, whether it’s your rent, your attention, your home, your sense of security.MORE: 'Transparent' Star Kathryn Hahn on Her Most Important Working RelationshipI’m glad you brought that up, because I felt like that was another theme.Soloway: Just the feeling of having to perform and not really getting to be yourself. For Davina, her transness is more about how much freedom she wanted and didn’t have, it was an the economic issue. And then we also had this very tiny little theme running through the season that we in the writers room were aware of in that moment when Davina -- she was David then -- didn’t necessarily have the choice to get up and leave [when the man she’s dating wants to have unprotected sex]. How that was connected with her HIV status, what consent actually means, when there’s that moment where her boyfriend and benefactor Roland says, “Come on, baby.” Can you consent if somebody else is paying your rent? We tie that in with Josh and Rita’s consent story and that moment of Shelly getting pregnant by accident. This is who I live with, this is who is in charge of me, these are my options.And this is my financial situation…Soloway: Yeah, we just wanted to draw those little connectors because what I realize [is] we’re always taking about the notion of intersectionality, which as far as I can tell means because of our intersections regarding race, gender and class, we do and don’t have things in common some of the times, and others, we don’t. It’s so broad, but it doesn’t mean solidarity, which people think it means. So that little thing of those two threads is an intersectional storyline, because it asks, what do we have in common here? What does a Jewish woman in the suburbs of L.A. have in common with a little trans girl getting HIV, and the biological results of that, the biological emanations of inability to consent? And for us, we try to weave these things into the background for those who are watching it closely or maybe for a class that people teach. We’re looking for those little sparks of connection to suggest sparks of solidarity within intersectionality.Transparent has moved from telling a narrative to depicting a revolutionary trans nude scene as just another woman lying in bed with her boyfriend. Alexandra, considering your history standing up to the Curb Your Enthusiasm team, who wrote a hurtful scene where a transwoman bails on the line to the ladies’ room for a urinal in the interest of time and you said, ‘I refuse to read for this part and you should change it,’ do you think America has moved past the point of trans people being the butt of the joke?Billings:  Yeah, ish. I think that we have taken a step in the right direction, though we’re at a pause right now with the current government. The people who have kept their true selves silent because they know within themselves what they believe isn’t true, right or kind, have been given permission by all the white cis heteronormative men in power. They are blossoming in this really big way. I’m now a drama professor at University of Southern California, where I’ve been misgendered three times on campus in the three weeks I’ve been there.How can they misgender you when you’re on a very popular TV show?Billings: I’m walking down the main path on campus, and one of the buildings I teach in is where all the jocks hang out and also where I teach theater to the masters students. It’s a very long walk past some field -- I don’t understand sports -- and these two very large gentlemen are coming toward me. My sense is really good, so I knew something was going to happen. So I stopped, and I’m very much owning my own space, and they say to me, “That’s a guy,” one of them said. “That’s a tranny,” and they passed by me, laughing. It was horrible. I took all of that into the classroom, and luckily I am helped by these students in this university in a way that’s really extraordinary. We had a really beautiful day, strangely, but the gift was, this show is reaching the people whether they like it or not. The people who feel like they’re now getting bigger are getting bigger because of this government, they know who I am. I had to bless them and thank them because you know what? 10 years ago, you wouldn’t have known who I was. So, are we the butt of jokes? Yeah. Are we still in the center of violence? Oh, yes. Our suicide rate is 82 percent, we don’t survive. However, the glimmer of light is the fact that the portal is open and everyone is going through it, whether they want to or not.




Photo: Big Machine Label Group  
Danielle Bradbery is holding on to those summer vibes. The 21-year-old songstress, who won the season four of The Voice on Blake Shelton's team, has teamed up with ET to debut one of her catchy new songs, "Hello Summer," which will feature on her next album. I Don't Believe We've Met is set for release on Dec. 1. "Hello Summer" was co-written by Thomas Rhett, Rhett Akins, The Cadillac Three's Jaren Johnston and Julian Bunetta in a session originally intended for Rhett's Life Changes album. When Rhett decided not to select it for this project, he contacted Bradbery. The duo have stayed close since touring together in 2015, with Rhett serving as a mentor in recent years.  "He felt like the song could be re-written with female perspective, so I sat down with his dad [Akins] and he re-wrote some of the lyrics to fit my voice," Bradbery says. "Julian agreed to produce it and I'm so proud of how it turned out. It's one of the few I didn't co-write myself, but I feel really speaks to the same emotional theme of the record and pushes the boundaries sonically into new territory for me." "We jumped in and cranked that story out really quick and then started another," Johnston tells ET, recalling the session. "I really thought it was gonna be on TR's new record, so I was really surprised when I heard Danielle had cut it." "I guess that's what's so great about Nashville and writing country music -- you never know where a good song is gonna find a home," he continues. "I recently heard her version and I love it. What a true talent she is! She killed it." The ironic timing of the song's release isn't lost on Bradbery, who joked about the title in an Instagram post of a yellow shirt that reads, "Goodbye Summer." "Because we are releasing a song called 'Hello Summer' on the first day of fall," she cracked. I Don't Believe We've Met is available for pre-order now. 








Photo: Getty Images  
Chrissy Teigen’s Twitter was bananas on Thursday… literally! The 31-year-old supermodel and cookbook author was craving some banana bread when she ran into a big problem. She couldn’t find any brown, over-ripe bananas to make the perfect loaf.Naturally, John Legend’s wife reached out to her more than 7.5 million Twitter followers for help and some local Los Angeles fans quickly came to her aid. MORE: Chrissy Teigen Shuts Down Report of John Legend Split on Anniversary“If u have 6 BROWN bananas in the LA area, I will send my assistant to your home with a signed cookbook, John's underwear and a Becca palette,” Teigen quipped.Declaring she wanted “SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY,” Teigen retweeted one fan who only had five available bananas. Eventually Teigen sent over her “assistant,” who turned out to be her adorable mom, Vilailuck, for the pick-up. “The deal has been done. thank you, @bymeg!!!!” Teigen captioned two photos of the fan handing her mom the bananas.Vilailuck also posed with the bananas back at Teigen’s house when fans noticed something hilarious in the background of her photos – her French bulldog Pippa in a full costume. “Yes my dog is a bellhop and no I have no reasoning,” she wrote.Things got particularly dicey when Teigen realized she needed just one more banana to complete the recipe. She found another fan with two more to spare and he also posed with Vilailuck after the drop off. “This is no longer my banana bread. this is *our* banana bread,” the supermodel tweeted.Finally, many tweets, two pick-ups, and one spray tan later, Teigen was thrilled to unveil the finished product. MORE: Chrissy Teigen and John Legend Celebrate 4 Years of Marriage With Sexy Anniversary Snap -- See the Pic!“My banana bread, she is beautiful,” Teigen said in one clip. “Look how pretty! Look how moist!”All’s well that ends in homebaked goods and a dog in a bellhop costume!For more from Teigen, watch the clip below!Chrissy Teigen Opens Up About Struggling With Drinking Too Much: 'I Have to Fix Myself'


There are a whole lot of Kendall Jenners in Fergie's new music video for her song, "Enchanté."The music video was released on Friday in conjunction with the 42-year-old pop star's second studio album, Double Dutchess, and features the 21-year-old model frolicking around a house in a series of high-fashion, often brightly-colored outfits. PHOTOS: Fergie Performs in a Sexy, Lace-Up Bodysuit at Rock in Rio After Josh Duhamel SplitAt some points, there are three versions of Jenner doing different things like dancing, playing an instrument or applying makeup -- and the images all play on a loop. The music video opens with the reality star waking up in black lingerie while Fergie's 4-year-old son, Axl, sings his mom's tune.Fergie spoke to ET earlier this week about how Jenner came to star in her music video. "We had this kind of random moment at Coachella, we ended up in this car ... going to this party," she recalled. "We're just in this car and we're playing music and the sun was going down ...I remember filming, she was lip-syncing to a song and I remember thinking, 'Wow, she has like an inner pop star inside of her.'"As for Jenner's role in the music video, Fergie added, "I just wanted her to do her and she did. She did, she rocked it out."In lead-up to her album and music video release, Fergie appeared on The Tonight Show and performed an acoustic version of the Black Eyed Peas' 2005 hit, "My Humps," with members of The Roots. "Enchante" is one of the first music videos that Fergie has released since announcing her split from husband Josh Duhamel. "We're great friends, Josh and I, there's so much love that we have for each other," Fergie told ET in our exclusive interview. "We really like each other, we have fun with each other. We're just not a romantic couple anymore."Check out more of our chat with the newly single singer:EXCLUSIVE: Fergie Talks Split From Josh Duhamel: 'We're Just Not a Romantic Couple Anymore'  Related GalleryBiggest Celebrity Breakups of 2017












Photo: John Sciulli/Getty Images  
Jennifer Lopez is calling for her fans to do what they can to help the people of Puerto Rico after the island suffered massive destruction following Hurricane Maria's landfall.The singer took to Instagram on Thursday night to deliver a passionate plea for support for the nation's relief efforts."What's on my mind is what's going on in Puerto Rico. The devastation is beyond belief," said Lopez, who is currently in Las Vegas for her residency show. "Me and my cousin still haven't been able to hear from our families over there.""Today, Puerto Rico needs our help. I urge you to support and donate to the efforts of the First Lady of Puerto Rico, Beatriz Areizaga," she shared. "Together we can help rebuild our island, and the Caribbean."Kristen Bell Performs 'Frozen' Songs at Hurricane Irma Shelter, Continues to Rescue Co-Stars' FamiliesHurricane Maria, which has killed at least 15 people in Puerto Rico and 20 more in several other Caribbean islands, comes on the heels of the immensely powerful Hurricane Irma, which tore through Puerto Rico before causing massive damage in Florida and claimed the lives of at least 84 people in the Caribbean and the U.S.Before sharing her own video, Lopez reposted a similar plea recorded by her ex-husband and friend Marc Anthony, who also encouraged viewers to donate and support relief efforts.Salma Hayek Donates $100K to Mexico Earthquake Victims, Celine Dion to Match Vegas Red Cross DonationsThe singer also shared an interview with a resident of Puerto Rico from the NBC Nightly News' coverage of Hurricane Maria, who got candid about the frightening toll the storm took, and the need to overcome this hardship."It will take a while to get to those that need it the most," the aid worker shared. "I'm 54 years old and I've never seen devastation like this. The human spirit is gonna have to rise up real high, and I'm sure we have the strength to do it, but we have to find it within ourselves."Pink Donates $500,000 to Hurricane Harvey Relief EffortsDespite the destruction caused by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria, there are still two months remaining in the Atlantic hurricane season, which continues through Nov. 30.For those who want to donate to Puerto Rico's relief and rebuilding efforts, click here.Beyonce, Kevin Hart, J.Lo and More Stars Show Support for Houston After Hurricane Harvey


Amal Clooney gets back to work!The 39-year-old human rights lawyer and new mom returned to work at the United Nations in New York City on Thursday, looking every bit as stunning as usual.Clooney -- who welcomed twins, Alexander and Ella, with husband George Clooney in June -- rocked a retro-style red wool Bottega Veneta skirt suit with a silk terracotta blouse, nude Manolo Blahnik heels and a Michael Kors purse.
        Photo: Splash News
      EXCLUSIVE: George Clooney on Caring for Newborn Twins With Wife Amal: 'It's Hard Work but It's Fun'Amal Clooney Rocks 5 Different Styles in 3 Days at Venice Film Festival -- See the Stunning Looks!Amal Clooney Rocks 5 Different Styles in 3 Days at Venice Film Festival -- See the Stunning Looks!  Clooney has been stepping out in the most gorgeous ensembles in the past months. Earlier this month, she turned heads in a lilac Versace Atelier gown at the Venice Film Festival and wowed in a shimmering royal blue Missoni dress while out to dinner with friends. ET recently caught up with the human rights lawyer's movie star husband about his newborns and their personalities."They start out with a personality right off the bat," George admitted. "[Alexander] is a thug already...He's a moose! Literally, he just sits and he eats." Meanwhile, he said his little girl is "very elegant, and all eyes. She looks like Amal, thank god." The 56-year-old actor also praised Amal for already being an amazing mother. See what he had to say in the video below.EXCLUSIVE: George Clooney on Caring for Newborn Twins With Wife Amal: 'It's Hard Work but It's Fun'  Related GalleryAmal Clooney's Best Looks




Photo: Backgrid  
Corinne Olympios and DeMario Jackson are still going strong -- their friendship, that is. The reality stars were photographed leaving TAO in Hollywood together on Wednesday, weeks after coming face-to-face for the first time since the Bachelor in Paradise scandal.Olympios was all smiles as she left the restaurant behind Jackson, who wore a black T-shirt with the Frank Ocean lyrics, "Said she need a ring like Carmelo."
        Photo: Backgrid
      EXCLUSIVE: Corinne Olympios Says She & DeMario Jackson Had Dinner to Talk 'In Detail'Olympios told ET last month that she and Jackson couldn't be happier to be friends. "I mean, he's a good-looking guy, but I don't know if that will ever turn into anything. We're just friends. We're just moving on past the drama," she said. "Finally, for once, I am single." While Olympios enjoys singledom, another Paradise couple, Dean Unglert and Kristina Schulman, may be trying to rekindle their flame. The two made an appearance on Wells Adams' Instagram Stories this week, alongside Luke Pell, James Taylor, Danielle Maltby and Christen Whitney in a radio studio.
        Photo: Instagram
      EXCLUSIVE: Dean Unglert Says He's Got a Dating Podcast Coming, Calls Ben Higgins a 'Mentor'"From what I know, he's trying to work things out with Kristina," Danielle Lombard, whose romance with Unglert ended up causing drama between Unglert and Schulman on Paradise, shared on iHeartRadio'sBen and Ashley I: Almost Famous podcast. "I'm trying to be respectful and keep my distance.""I haven't talked to him in a while. I've said my peace. He'll text me here and there to see how I'm doing, but there's no romantic relationship," she continued. "For me, after watching the show and the things he said, I don't see how or why I would want to continue a relationship with him."ET spoke with Unglert earlier this month, where he revealed that he and Schulman had been in contact -- and that he'd love to have a relationship with her and Lombard "as friends." See more in the video below. EXCLUSIVE: Dean Unglert Reacts to F**kboy Accusations, Explains Why He's Not the 'Bachelor'


Barbara Corcoran is meeting a whole different side of herself onDancing With the Stars.ET's Lauren Zima caught up with the businesswoman at Shark Tank's Paley Center premiere event on Wednesday, where she revealed that rehearsals with her partner, Keo Motsepe, had her crying for the first time in 25 years."I spent today three hours in practice and learned exactly three little steps and there's roughly 80 steps in a dance and I have two dances to turn out Saturday. So, needless to say, I had a cry down," Corcoran confessed. "I didn't know I had enough juice in my body to cry. I haven't cried in like, 25 years and I was sobbing all over Keo's lap.""It was terrible. And I can't stand women that cry. I just had a breakdown," she continued. "I'm hoping I bounce up from here, we'll see. I'm starting to pray again. I haven't prayed for years."EXCLUSIVE: Barbara Corocan Reacts to Grabbing 'DWTS' Partner Keo's Crotch: 'I'm Touchy Feely'While the intensity of the competition is already getting to Corcoran, her partner is not. In fact, she says she'd "love to marry him." "Robert Herjavec, [who met his wife, Kym Johnson, on the show in 2015], said make sure you pick somebody really good, because chances are you're going to marry him," she said of her fellow Shark's advice. "So I went on the website, looked at the handsomest guy... and I picked out Keo. I think I made the right choice. I'd love to marry him.""I haven't asked poor Bill at home," she admitted of her current husband, Bill Higgins. "It's been 26 years. He's very understanding, he's a lovely guy. I think I could work around that detail."Another of Corcoran's fellow Shark Tank stars had a different sort of advice."The advice that Mark Cuban gave me is, he said it was the hardest thing he ever did in his life and he meant it. And that's the advice I should have listened to," she added. "I thought he was trying to scare me away, 'cause he was afraid I'd go beyond him, but he was being honest. I should have listened and said, 'Maybe another year.'"EXCLUSIVE: Barbara Corcoran Says She 'Dreams' About Her Hunky 'DWTS' Season 25 Partner Keo MotsepeWhile Corcoran powers through her DWTS rehearsals, she couldn't be more confident about Shark Tank, which continues to be a hit heading into its ninth season. "The secret sauce is everybody gets the chance to dream. Everybody at home feels empowered that they're going to get rich one day, if only they come up with the idea," she said. "And then they get to watch it play out."Season nine of Shark Tank premieres Sunday, Oct. 1 at 8 p.m. ET/PT on ABC.EXCLUSIVE: Mark Cuban Calls Richard Branson an 'Idiot', Says 'Shark Tank' Episode 'Got Physical'








Photo: instagram.com/mileycyrus  
Miley Cyrus is daydreaming about a breakup.The Younger Now singer dropped "Week Without You," the fourth song off of her upcoming album on Thursday, which returns to the relationship themes from "Malibu," but feels like a different kind of blue.MORE: Miley Cyrus' Transformation Timeline: From Disney Star to Infamous Twerker to Fresh-Faced 'Malibu'"I know that I gave you my heart/ But you stomped it to the ground," the 24-year-old singer croons in the super-hooky chorus. Other lines of the song similarly find Cyrus with one foot out, but ultimately able to reconcile the good parts of a relationship from the bad. "You know I'd miss you, baby/ Feels like I've known you since I was just seven years old," she sings. "You used to make me smile but now you don't do that anymore."Listen to the song below.MORE: Miley Cyrus Releases Elvis-Inspired 'Younger Now' Video -- Plus, Check Out Her New Album Art & Track List!Younger Now is set to release on Sept. 29.In the lead-up to the release, Cyrus has been releasing snippets of songs on the record -- in their order on the tracklist, corresponding to how many days there are left until the album comes out.The teases suggest an eclectic collection of tracks, which really isn't all that surprising when you consider that Cyrus' last two releases swung from late-night party anthem pop to an acoustic-downbeat electro blend of Flaming Lips-esque introspection.How ever you feel about Miley, or the songs, one thing's for sure -- she always keeps it interesting!Watch the video to see Cyrus do Carpool Karaoke with her family!Miley, Noah and Billy Ray Do 'Carpool Karaoke' With the Whole Cyrus Family -- Watch!  Related GalleryMiley Cyrus & Liam Hemsworth's Love Story in Pictures: A Relationship Timeline




Marlena forever?Big Brother couple Mark Jansen and Elena Davies plan to turn their showmance into a real-life relationship outside the house. ET caught up with the couple after the season 19 finale on Wednesday night.“I’m crazy about her,” Mark spills. “I didn't expect to have this strong of feelings, these strong of feelings for her. It'll be interesting to see what happens when we step out in the real world. I mean, I'm excited! I'm planning on going down to Dallas for a little bit.”“We had some back and forth in the house,” Elena admits. “It was more so back and forth with me, and a lot of just forth with him.”“I tried very hard to keep my mental health in mind whilst trying to start a relationship with him, and it was challenging to do so in that environment,” she adds. “But the jury house was a nice break. There's no camera, no pressure. So, I would say we passed phase one, and phase two -- he's gonna come hang out in Dallas for a while after this all wraps up and we'll see what happens with phase three of the relationship, if we can make it in the real world.”EXCLUSIVE: ‘Big Brother’ Star Paul on Losing Again and His Pals Victor and Nicole Dating“I enjoy him quite a bit,” Elena says. “I'm excited to see if anything happens. I know he doesn't plan to live in Buffalo, long term … it’s a good sign.”“I never met anybody like her,” Mark confesses. “Even when she wanted to keep her distance from me, every day she was there for me.”“I don't want to rush it,” he continues. “I'm crazy about her and I'm very excited to see where things go after this experience.“I can't help but be rational and logical in all of this, like, I met a guy in the Big Brother house and he's gonna move to Texas?” Elena shares. “Are you kidding me? Are we all on drugs? That's nuts!”EXCLUSIVE: ‘Big Brother’ Couple Jessica and Cody Talk Next Relationship StepsAlso nuts was the fan reaction to “Thicc Mark.” The personal trainer was an internet favorite all season long for flashing his derriere a lot on the live feeds -- and he’s happy fans enjoyed it.“I love being in the sun, and I love having my a** out and tanning,” he shares. “I wasn't too concerned -- clearly, wasn't concerned at all -- with what was being put on the internet. I hope the internet enjoyed it … men and women! Everybody.”EXCLUSIVE: 'Big Brother' Star Mark Jansen Hopes Fans Enjoyed Seeing His Bare Butt on Live Feeds


Matt Clines and Raven Walton are ready to turn their Big Brother showmance into a romance.“I’m excited to see [what] the future … holds for me and Matthew,” Raven gushes to ET after the finale. “We have connected on a whole new level.”“We're gonna see what happens,” Matt adds. “We're gonna hang around California for a week, spend time with each other. We haven't known each other for a single minute outside of this house, so yeah, I'm excited to get to know Raven outside of the house and see where it goes. I'm excited.”EXCLUSIVE: 'Big Brother' 19's Jessica and Cody on Taking Their Relationship Into the Real World Leaving the Big Brother house also means facing the fans of the show for the first time. Viewers questioned Raven’s backstory a lot, often with the hashtag #ExposeRavenParty. They dug up past local news stories about Raven and her family after the dance teacher shared a lot of information with her fellow houseguests on past medical procedures, diseases and family history, that even some of them questioned. The main stories involved her gastroparesis diagnosis (she has a “pacemaker” that helps her digest food), a bum knee and her mom being a member of Mensa.“If you want to question it, that's fine,” Raven says. “Everyone has the right to their own opinion, but I just really wanted to be an open book. I do have a lot wrong with me and I didn't use it as a crutch. I just wanted to educate people and inspire people.”“I believe everything Raven said in the house,” Matt says. “If she was making that stuff up, that's a heck of a good story, 'cause that is very unique. So, yeah, maybe some of it wasn't true, and I'm assuming she'll let me know if it wasn't. I mean, I did see the scar and the pacemaker, so I'm assuming at least part of that to be true.”EXCLUSIVE: ‘Big Brother’ Host Julie Chen Reacts to Cody Casting the Deciding Vote“A lot of people are like, ‘You don't look sick,’” Raven continues. “I've had that even before I went on the show … Well, you can't see it. There's something wrong with me on the inside. I do have a lot wrong with me, and to clear this up -- I said in the house, my mom could be a part of Mensa. She went to law school. Unfortunately, she got sick and was not able to graduate. She could join Mensa tomorrow. She's a very intelligent woman and I'm proud to be her daughter.”“I'm a sick woman,” she says. “I do have terminal illnesses. I don't let it stop me, I don't let it bring me down.”For more from the Big Brother finale, check out the video below.EXCLUSIVE: 'Big Brother' Star Paul Abrahamian Reacts to Losing AGAIN, Plus Victor and Nicole Dating!








Another summer, another second place finish for Big Brother houseguest Paul Abrahamian.“[The jury votes] honestly surprise me a little bit,” Paul tells ET. “I think everybody was pissed. I was the only vet in the house. I don't know what they expected me to do, just roll over and give them the game? But I wasn't going to do that, so I think when they got to jury, ‘Oh. Paul beat us. Well, I hate him now.'”ET caught up with the two-time runner-up in the Big Brother backyard after Wednesday night’s finale, which saw the jury vote 5-4 to give the $500,000 grand prize to Josh Martinez. Paul says he was most surprised by former allies Alex Ow and Jason Dent’s votes go to Josh, as well as sworn enemy Cody Nickson’s vote.“I didn't think there would be anything on planet Earth sitting next to Josh that Cody would vote for,” he jokes. “But apparently, I’m it."EXCLUSIVE: ‘Big Brother’ Couple Jessica and Cody Talk Next Relationship Steps -- Is Someone Moving?Paul says the jury definitely seemed bitter, but he doesn’t hold his loss against them.“It's like crying over a game of Monopoly,” he says. “I won $50,000, I'm stoked. Whatever. If they didn't want to vote for me, that's on them. They can live with that, whatever weirdness they have inside of them. I know I played the hell out of this season, I gave it all that I could, and if I still dictated second place, then that's what I dictated. I'll take it, put my head up and walk out, with friendship.”Despite two losses, the 24-year-old rocker says he’d head back into the house for a third time immediately.“Look, I put 191 days into this house,” he notes. “Over six months of my life has been lived inside the Big Brother house. I'm definitely insane. I'm on all aspects a sociopath. I would probably do it again. Why? Sadomasochist! Absolutely. But I would totally do it again and hopefully -- at this point, I just want to win second place all the time. Just to keep the ongoing joke running, I just want to win second place forever. So, if they bring me back, I'm shooting for second.”EXCLUSIVE: 'Big Brother' Host Julie Chen Reacts to Josh's Win and Cody Being 'America's Favorite'While we had Paul, we also got his take on the news that his season 18 pals, Victor Arroyo and Nicole Franzel, are dating. The former houseguests reconnected at the season 18 premiere party earlier this summer.“I thought that was a joke,” Paul admits. “He's like, ‘This is my girlfriend.’ I'm like, shut up, Victor. What's up, Nic -- and then they kissed and I was like... alright, well, that's happening now. I wish them luck. That's super bizarre. I hope a weird baby comes out of it that'll be slightly hairy and slightly nerdy all at once. I'm into it.”Fore more on Victor and Nicole’s romance, check out the video below.EXCLUSIVE: Yes, 'Big Brother' 18's Victor Arroyo and Nicole Franzel Are Dating! How They Fell in Love






Photo: Instagram  
Val Chmerkovskiy is extremely grateful for his partner on Dancing With the Stars this season.The 31-year-old dancer took to Instagram on Thursday to marvel over former paralympic swimmer Victoria Arlen, who was paralyzed from the waist down for a decade before learning to walk again a year and a half ago. He said that working with Arlen, who's currently a correspondent for ESPN, has given him a newfound "purpose."Chmerkovskiy posted a video from Project Walk Boston, the city where Arlen was born. The video begins with a young boy holding a sign that reads, "Vote for our very own Victoria Arlen!" The rest of the footage shows patients from the paralysis recovery center wishing #TeamViVa good luck in the competition."Like many people out there, I have my moments of severe doubt. Insecurity," Chmerkovskiy captioned it. "I constantly [am] finding myself questioning not just my own worth, but also my impact on the world. How am I contributing? What will I leave behind? Am I really going to be simply remembered as 'that guy from that dance show'? With endless gratitude and the utmost respect, the answer is...absolutely not."MORE: 'Dancing With the Stars' Season 25 Premiere: Best Lifts, Kicks, Tricks and Flips!Chmerkovskiy says that although he's "not sure what the future holds" for him, he's "so grateful" for today."Victoria Arlen has given me a purpose beyond the dance floor," he gushed. "She has given me an opportunity of a lifetime.. to be able to make an impact on a very special community and beyond.""Today I'm showing up to work, as a man with a higher purpose and a drive beyond just doing another turn or dip, even though I think we can all agree that there are very few things more fun than a good 'ol dip," he added. "I'm going to work knowing that with this great opportunity comes a massive responsibility. I'm going to seize the blessings that are right there in front of me, not a single breath for granted, not a moment left empty of joy and gratitude, and who knows maybe through the laughter, the struggle, the ultimate joy we show on Monday, we can inspire the next Victoria Arlen."See his full post below:When ET spoke with Chmerkovskiy backstage at DWTS on Monday, he echoed these sentiments about Arlen."Oh my god, [she's taught me] how lucky I am, how grateful I am and, as grateful as I am, how much joy I could still have," he explained. "It's hard work to be happy, it takes effort and the effort is in reminding yourself how beautiful you have it, and she's a reminder of that every day. I get a little ray of sunshine every single day I go to work and that's a blessing in itself."Dancing With the Stars returns next Monday at 8 p.m. ET/PT on ABC.EXCLUSIVE: Victoria Arlen Tears Up After Stunning Debut on 'DWTS,' Explains Why It Was 'Emotional'  Related GalleryThe Complete List: 'Dancing with the Stars' Winners














Tim McGraw is warming our darn hearts!Country legend Faith Hill turned 50 on Thursday, and to celebrate the milestone, McGraw took to Instagram with one of the sweetest birthday messages of all time."Happy birthday to the most beautiful girl in the world," McGraw wrote. "You are the most remarkable person that has ever been in my life....Our daughters could not have a better role model =.""I am truly in love with you more everyday," he continued. Can't wait to see what 'the rest of our life' has in store for us."MORE: Faith Hill and Tim McGraw Post Sweet Birthday Wishes for 'Adventurous' Daughter MaggieIf someone could just recite those words to us verbatim on our birthdays, that would be incredible, 'cause it's unlikely better ones will ever be written.Of course, Hill's big day comes after McGraw celebrated his own 5-0 this past May -- and she had her own words of love for her husband."Never better baby!!!!," Hill wrote alongside an intimate Instagram snap of McGraw kissing his wife on the forehead. "Happy 50th Birthday my love. This world is a better place because of you. I know you are having one of the best days of your life!!!!!"MORE: Inside Faith Hill and Tim McGraw's Gorgeous Bahamas Home -- See the Pics!Proving time and time again why they are country's favorite couple.Watch the video below for some of ET's favorite moments with the pair over their longtime love story.Tim McGraw Turns 50! His Cutest ET Moments With Wife Faith Hill  Related GalleryPDA Alert! Celebrity Couples Who Can't Keep Their Hands Off Each Other






Gwen Stefani is getting into the holiday spirit -- with a little help from her man!The singer revealed the tracklist for her upcoming Christmas album, You Make It Feel Like Christmas, on Thursday, featuring a little teaser of the title track, a duet with Blake Shelton."#YouMakeItFeelLikeChristmasout Oct 6th!!" the 47-year-old songstress captioned the post. "Preorder starting tonight & get the first single feat @BlakeShelton 🎄😍🎄gx." Listen below:MORE: Blake Shelton & Gwen Stefani Still Very Happy & 'Committed to One Another' After Nearly 2 YearsShelton tweeted out in support of his girlfriend's album, writing, "Daddy likey..."As with most pop star Christmas albums, You Make It Feel Like Christmas -- out Oct. 6 -- also features a slew of holiday standards. Here's the tracklist:
"Jingle Bells
"Let It Snow"
"My Gift Is You"
"Silent Night"
"When I Was a Little Girl"
"Last Christmas"
"You Make It Feel Like Christmas"
"Under the Christmas Lights"
"Santa Baby"
"White Christmas"
"Never Kissed Anyone With Blue Eyes"
"Christmas Eve"MORE: Gwen Stefani's Kids Adorably Dance in Blake Shelton's New Music Video -- Watch!Looks like we'll be hearing a lot of Stefani in our speakers all holiday season!Watch the video below for a relationship update on Stefani and Shelton nearly two years into their romance!Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton Relationship Update -- What the Future Holds for 'The Voice' Couple  Related GalleryGwen Stefani and Blake Shelton's Cutest Moments








It’s time for a little “Tropical Romance.”Cody Johns’ new single is out -- and only ET can share the music video with you!EXCLUSIVE: Jess and Gabriel Conte Reveal Sweet Meaning Behind 'Bless the Broken Road' Music VideoCody hits the beach with his real-life wife, Alexys, for the sexy clip, which will instantly transport you, too.“When I was writing this song and just playing around with the chords, it just sort of reminded me of a tropical, vacation environment,” Cody tells ET. “So, I hope that when you guys listen to the song and watch the video it kind of puts your in that mindset and you can take a brief vacation for three and a half minutes.”Cody promises more music is on the way soon, but for now, you can just keep “Tropical Romance” on repeat.EXCLUSIVE: Logan Paul and Chloe Bennet are the Goofiest, Cutest Pair on the Red Carpet -- Watch!




Donna D'Errico is ready to rescue her love life!The former Baywatch babe looks to Patti Stanger for help to get over her tumultuous split from Nikki Sixx on Friday's episode of Million Dollar Matchmaker. Only ET has an exclusive first look at Friday's episode, in which D'Errico reveals that she's built up walls since her divorce from the Mötley Crüe rocker over a decade ago."I've been divorced for 11 years now. There was a lot of bad stuff that happened in the marriage that I won't get into, but it was bad," D'Errico explains in the clip. EXCLUSIVE: Kelly Rohrbach on Stepping Into Pamela Anderson's 'Baywatch' Role: 'I Didn't Want to Disappoint'"I'm sure my marriage and my divorce still affect me today in some way," she adds. "I have a lot of walls up. I've been burned a lot of times. I keep people at a distance."See the full clip in the video player above. Million Dollar Matchmaker airs Fridays at 9 p.m. ET/PT on WE tv.EXCLUSIVE: 'Million Dollar Matchmaker' Patti Stanger Picks Matches for Brad Pitt, Jen Garner and Katy PerryMillionaire Matchmaker Patti Stanger Wants to Match Katy Perry Up With a Man Outside Hollywood




Happy Birthday, Trisha Yearwood!
The country star turned 53 on Tuesday, and in honor of her special day, her husband, Garth Brooks, adorably surprised her with a trip to Louisville, Kentucky.
Brooks kicked off the celebrations by first posting a special message to Yearwood on her own Twitter page.
"It's the Queen's Birthday!!!" he wrote, accompanying the tweet with a video in which he asked fans to send her well wishes. "Join me in celebrating #HappyBirthdayTrisha!!! love, g."MORE: Garth Brooks Tops Highest-Paid Country Stars of 2017 While Dolly Parton Reps for the GirlsThen, the two headed to Louisville for date night -- at a Bruno Mars concert!
"I know it was my birthday, but I'm not sure who had more fun!" the blond beauty joked on Facebook.(function(d, s, id) {

}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));Thank you for all of your birthday messages and cakes 🎂! Garth surprised me with a trip to Louisville to see Bruno Mars! I know it was my birthday, but I'm not sure who had more fun! XoxoPosted by Trisha Yearwood on Wednesday, September 20, 2017Naturally, Yearwood's fans couldn't get enough of the cute selfie the two shared.
"Okay....y'all are seriously the cutest couple ever," one fan wrote. "What an awesome hubby you have!"
"Score, @garthbrooks I love it!" another tweeted. "Glad you got spoiled. You 2 are the cutest... definite #RelationshipGoals."
Yearwood and Brooks, 55, first started dating in 2000. Brooks proposed in 2005, and the lovebirds said "I do" on Dec. 10, 2005 in a private ceremony at the couple's home in Owasso, Oklahoma.EXCLUSIVE: Garth Brooks and Trisha Yearwood Celebrate First-Ever Duets Album Together  Related GalleryPDA Alert! Celebrity Couples Who Can't Keep Their Hands Off Each Other






Get ready to see a whole new side of the beauty industry.ET was on set of Lifetime’s American Beauty Star -- a new competition series that aims do for hair and makeup artists what Project Runway has done for fashion designers -- with host Adriana Lima, contestant mentor Sir John (Beyonce’s personal makeup artist!), and judge Sarah Brown, Vogue contributing editor, to find out why it took until 2017 to make a show like this happen.“This is such an exciting time for beauty,” Brown gushes. “What's been amazing in the last year or two is that we've seen the definition of beauty expand, to be so much more inclusive than it ever has been.”“Right now, the conversation is so broad and includes every gender, every ethnicity, every type of person, every everything,” she continues. “There's just room for everyone, and makeup brands are getting on board with that, the modeling agencies. Everything is changing, and so this show is at the perfect time [to] capture that moment of inclusion and this expanding definition of beauty.”'American Beauty Star' Season 1 Trailer: It's 'Project Runway' for Hair and Makeup Artists!Brown describes the show as “boundary-breaking,” and Sir John notes social media has totally changed the game.“From Harlem to Hong Kong, you can hashtag any popular lipstick shade, or hairspray, and you'll see a mosaic of women wearing hijab, or one is in Ireland, one is in Korea, getting ready for a date night, or in Dubai,” he says. “You didn't see that years prior. So, I love that that's happening, and we're on a path to see a huge shift or turn of beauty, and if we're at the top of the roller coaster, it's just a really good ride to be a part of.”The cast promises the 12 contestants are taking beauty places viewers won’t expect, surprising even them week after week.“We're seeing incredible transformations,” Brown shares. “Attitudes change … I think that men will be watching, too ... boys and men [can find] something for themselves in beauty, whether they wanted to do it to someone else or they want to put it on their own face, and we're at this great moment right now, culturally, you know, where that's becoming acceptable, which is a huge leap, you know?”EXCLUSIVE: Heidi Klum Says 'Project Runway' Designers 'Weren't Happy' About Dressing Models of All Sizes“What I love about this show so much is that it's showing what is behind the creativity process,” Lima jumps in. “The positive, the nervousness, the struggles, and overcoming the struggles. It's so beautiful to see someone grow in so many different ways, and that's what you'll be watching at home.”“When you look at beauty, as a whole, there's an emotional connection that happens with the viewer,” John adds, explaining what sets the show apart from shows like Project Runway or Top Chef.“There's an emotional connection that happens with a woman and her mirror,” he continues. “If you've ever given a cancer survivor a new way to ... fill in her eyebrows in a way she hasn't prior, that emotional thing that happens, that lore is something you can't imitate with fashion or [other] programs that have come prior. So hopefully viewers can connect in a very personal way, as well.”Adriana Lima Wears Diamond Wedding Band, Declares 'I Am Committed to Myself'“Beauty has everything to do with a woman's personal journey, and it has to do with you know, who she wants to be,” he adds. “It's armor. It's an arsenal, at the end of the day … it changes your sense of well-being and give you a sense of pride in yourself.”But don’t worry -- the show still delivers the drama you’ve come to expect from reality TV.“It's emotional,” Brown teases. “There's backbiting … every element that goes into a really fun TV show is in this show, and then the thing that's really cool is, it's totally real.”“It's important for this to be socially relevant,” she wraps up. “If we did a show about who does the best smokey eye, I don't want to watch that show.”American Beauty Star premieres Thursday, Sept. 21, at 10:30 p.m. ET. Check out the video below for more with Lima.EXCLUSIVE: Adriana Lima on Raising Her Daughters in a Beauty-Obsessed World -- Will They Model, Too?




No matter how busy they are, Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez are never away from one another for very long.Just this week, Rodriguez escorted Lopez to a celebratory event for her show, World of Dance, and the very next day, she joined him for the season 9 premiere of Shark Tank.EXCLUSIVE: Jennifer Lopez Teases Business Plans With Alex Rodriguez, Talks 'World of Dance' Season 2The former MLB pro and triple-threat star appear to be nearly inseparable these days, and there's a good reason for that. "I think we're just best friends," Rodriguez told ET's Lauren Zima at the ABC show premiere. "We just love spending time together. Our kids love each other, so it's a good thing."The 42-year-old athlete and businessman added that they really do enjoy supporting one another. "It's what it's all about," he gushed. "It's a good time for us and it's great to be supportive and loving towards each other." Rodriguez also admitted that Lopez, a former American Idol judge, has shared tips with him for judging on a reality competition series such as Shark Tank. "She's kind of the master mind behind television," he said, praising the 48-year-old entertainer. "She's been doing it for so long and she's so natural. It's great, she's a good coach to have."On Tuesday, Lopez revealed to ET's Cameron Mathison that she and Rodriguez were "absolutely" talking about going into business, and her guy further confirmed the exciting news. MORE: Jennifer Lopez Says Alex Rodriguez Romance Is the First 'Good Relationship' She's Ever Been In"We got some things we're working on that we're not really ready to announce yet," Rodriguez teased. "I think her fans [and] my fans are going to be very excited to get involved."As for why Lopez makes a great business partner, Rodriguez explained, "I'm a big believer in women equality. I feel women should get paid just like men, and I come from a strong mother who had two jobs. I have two daughters. I have a sister. [Jennifer is] the epitome of women power and she's smart in so many ways. She has the ability and business to kind of see around corners and see what's next. No one connects better with her fans than Jennifer."The new season of ABC's Shark Tank premieres on Oct. 1.EXCLUSIVE: Alex Rodriguez Says Girlfriend Jennifer Lopez Is a 'Role Model' to His Daughters  Related Gallery17 Pics That Prove Jennifer Lopez Doesn't Age




















The future of killer robots is here.James Cameron revealed during a recent private event that Linda Hamilton is attached to his and Arnold Schwarzenegger's planned reboot of the Terminator franchise, The Hollywood Reporterfirst reported.In his remarks, Cameron highlighted the importance of Hamilton's tough and badass heroine, Sarah Connor -- who appeared in the franchise's first three films, as well as 2009's Termination Salvation -- returning for the reboot, noting that the aging acting hero is a trope usually only reserved for men."There are 50-year-old, 60-year-old guys out there killing bad guys,” he explained.  “but there isn’t an example of that for women.”In August, Cameron sat down with ET's Ash Crossan to discuss the future of the franchise, and how much the modern era of drones and artificial intelligence will shape the time-jumping, apocalyptic world."We have to ask ourselves some fundamental questions: Is there something that can be said in this Terminator universe that hasn't been said -- and is relevant to the world we're in right now?" the 63-year-old director posited. "There's so much in our world that's catching up to Terminator. We have killer robots, they're called unpiloted combat drones ... we're on the cusp of artificial intelligence that could be equal of a human intelligence.""So we got to start asking ourselves what that means for our existence as a society and for our own sense of meaning," he added.EXCLUSIVE: The One Scene James Cameron Changed in 'Terminator 2' Re-Release: 'It Just Bugged Me'Basically, Cameron admitted that when it comes to dramatizing Terminator with that lens, things could get pretty bleak."This is where fiction comes in," he said. "It allows us to explore different possibilities, so obviously if we were to explore it in a Terminator, the context is all going to be very negative."Flashback: Arnold Schwarzenegger Compares ET to the Terminator on the Set of 'Terminator 2'The director and his creative team have a long time to grapple with these questions, as the new Terminator won't "be back" until after 2019.Meanwhile, Cameron also opened up to ET about the one scene he just had to change in Terminator 2. See more in the video below.EXCLUSIVE: The One Scene James Cameron Changed in 'Terminator 2' Re-Release: 'It Just Bugged Me'  Related GalleryFavorite Movie Cast Reunions














Sasha Farber is sharing secrets from the ballroom!
The 33-year-old dancer stopped by ET for a Facebook Live interview on Tuesday, where he opened up about why he's not a pro on Dancing With the Stars this season, which pairs have the best chance at taking home the mirrorball trophy, and, of course, wedding planning with his fiancee, Emma Slater.
Just last season, Farber competed with Olympic gymnast Simone Biles, placing fourth in the competition. He also was a pro during seasons 17, 22 and 23, paired with Nicole "Snooki" Polizzi, Kim Fields and Terra Jole, respectively. So after four amazing seasons, why was Farber placed in the troupe for the dance competition show's 25th anniversary?
"The show changes. They always bring different people in," Farber told ET's Cameron Mathison and Lauren Zima. "And it's always -- it's a height issue for me, too. Everyone's pretty tall [this season], not going to lie."MORE: 'Dancing With the Stars' Season 25 Premiere: Best Lifts, Kicks, Tricks and Flips!Farber said that the DWTS team was "very professional" when they delivered the news to him.
"There's Joe [Sungkur], Ashley [Edens-Shaffer] and Deena [Katz] in the room and they all -- Deena cried," he recalled. "It was one of those things where they just couldn't really do much about it and I totally understand. It's a business thing. I'm still proud of the family and we're going on tour and it's good. It's good to be in the ballroom."
Although he seemed to be pretty bummed about the news at first, he says he's now "doing great."
"I'm not going to lie, it was a little bit weird to be in the ballroom [this week] and not getting to compete," he admitted. "The best part of [the show] is doing the creative aspect of it. Getting someone who has never danced before and transforming them into this superstar, and they become a true dancer with the knowledge that you give them."
"But I mean, I'm still there and I get to perform," Farber added, explaining that it also feels "nice" to just sit back and watch everyone dance. "Once you're in the Dancing With the Stars family, you're in the family. And it really is a family. All the pros love each other, all the celebs become amazing friends."Monday night's premiere featured highly entertaining performances from this season's contestants. Obviously, we had to ask Farber about which stars really blew him away. Here's what he had to say about some of his top picks:Jordan Fisher & Lindsay Arnold
"First of all, he annihilated it. It was like watching two pros dance. And you know, he improved so [much]. No joke, from the camera blocking to the dress rehearsal, which is, like, maybe a two-hour rehearsal? So different. His frame changed. His posture changed. He became a different person. He was just sharp … I can definitely see them going all the way, but it's going to be tight. There's a lot of talent."Vanessa Lachey & Maksim Chmerkovskiy
"I did NOT expect her to be that good, for sure!"Emma Slater & Drew Scott
"He is a tall guy. Len [Goodman] said it best, he's definitely a 'fixer-upper.' And his personality and dedication is brilliant. He's so dedicated."
Farber also noted that Slater and Scott are "traveling more than anyone in the show."
"I think Emma will be traveling to Canada every week after the show. I feel like Emma literally said bye to me at 3 a.m. today in the morning," he shared. I was like, 'Bye!'"So with Slater in Canada and Farber in Los Angeles, both constantly busy in rehearsals, are they still able to make time for wedding planning?
"Yes, every day," the Moscow, Russia, native shared. "We want to kind of do it in March, but it's just so hard with the tours and the seasons ... we kind of want to do a quick wedding and just get it over and done with."
"But it will be big," he revealed. "I want everyone to have fun. We're going to have a lot of shows, a lot of special appearances. It'll be a lot of fun." Premiere RecapSasha Farber is here to break down the Dancing with the Stars premiere with us!Posted by Entertainment Tonight on Tuesday, September 19, 2017As fans of DWTS know, Farber proposed to Slater almost a year ago live on the show. Recalling the special night to ET, he said the moment was both "amazing" and "insane."
"I've never been more scared in my life," he joked. "I had to dance before and I was like, 'I don't even know what's coming next.' I had the ring in my pocket and I was worried she was going to feel it or it was going to fall out. Then, I couldn't even get it out when -- I was trying to shake."
"It was just scary and I don't even really remember it perfectly," he added. "But it's one of those things where our families are on separate sides of the world, so it was good for them to kind of see it [together]."
Relive Farber's sweet proposal in the video below!EXCLUSIVE: Emma Slater Gushes Over Fiance Sasha Farber's Proposal: 'It Was the Best Day of My Life'  Related GalleryThe Complete List: 'Dancing with the Stars' Winners





Halle Berry has made it Instagram official!The Kingsman: The Golden Circle star confirmed her relationship with British music producer Alex Da Kid on social media on Tuesday, with a sweet photo of the couple captioned, simply, "My balance."A source tells ET that Alex is a low-key guy. “He is a very chill guy and soft spoken. He's low key and a really nice guy. He's very creative and serious about his music,” the source said.Romance rumors have been swirling about Berry and her 35-year-old beau since last month, when the two were reportedly spotted out together in Los Angeles.ET talked to Berry at the London premiere of Kingsman on Monday night, where she didn't dish on her love life, but did open up about the excitement of an international premiere.EXCLUSIVE: Halle Berry Stuns in Sheer Gown at 'Kingsman 2' London Premiere"I've been a big fan of these kind of movies," the Oscar winner said of the action-packed comedy. "I was in a [James Bond] movie, and that royal premiere is one of the fondest memories of my career. So, to be back here in London for another premiere that's equally as special is really exciting."Meanwhile, Berry's co-star, Channing Tatum, also talked to ET at the premiere and admitted he was a little scared, as the prank war between him and Berry was only getting more intense!EXCLUSIVE: Channing Tatum Praises Wife Jenna's Booty at 'Kingsman: The Golden Circle’ PremiereWatch the video below for what he had to say.EXCLUSIVE: Channing Tatum 'Afraid' as 'Kingsman' Dares With Halle Berry Get Bigger and Bigger!  Related GalleryThey Dated?! Surprising Celebrity Hookups




Dancing With the Stars' season 25 premiere went a little better for Nikki Bella than it did for her partner, Artem Chigvintsev. ET's Cameron Mathison caught up with the pair after their tango performance, where they opened up about that crazy body slam."The body slam actually didn't [hurt during practice]," Chigvintsev revealed. "I mean, it hurt, but it didn't hurt like this, and the end of the routine, that hurt because this floor is wooden... it doesn't bounce." "I got such an adrenaline rush and lifted him even higher than usual," Bella confessed, adding that she pinned Chigvintsev down at the end of their performance because "it just felt right." EXCLUSIVE: Debbie Gibson Talks Competing on 'DWTS' While Struggling With Lyme Disease"It just is in the moment, like, how do I slam someone who looks like they just died, and not give him a 1, 2, 3?" she continued. "I was like, 'Victory!'" "WWE fans, anything for you," Chigvintsev conceded. "That's right! For me, WWE universe and the Bella Army!" Bella agreed. While Bella looked right at home body slamming her partner, she told ET that the rest of the performance was a bit out of her comfort zone. EXCLUSIVE: Sasha Pieterse 'Bummed' By Performance on 'DWTS' Season 25 Premiere: 'It Wasn't My Best'"Wrestling, I've been dong it for 10 years. I know it. It's a part of me," she explained. "I just started learning this for two weeks, and so to come out here and be fearless Nikki, but show I have dance moves, it's so scary." "I can do this, but then all of the sudden, chin up, form, I'm like, 'What?' And then I'm, like, out of my comfort zone. Now I'm freaking out," she added. Bella's fiance, John Cena, gave her a sweet shout-out after the show, but when will he finally make it to the ballroom? "In a few weeks!" Bella shared. "He has No Mercy this Sunday, so he's been prepping for that. He just flew in from China, so once he kicks Roman Reign's butt, he'll make his way over here."EXCLUSIVE: Victoria Arlen Tears Up After Stunning Debut on 'DWTS,' Explains Why It Was 'Emotional'Dancing With the Stars airs Mondays at 8 p.m. ET/PT on ABC. EXCLUSIVE: Nick & Vanessa Lachey Talk 'DWTS' Face Off & Rocking Rhinestones: 'Bring it On'




Adriana Lima wants to change your idea of “beauty.”The Brazilian supermodel is stepping out of her comfort zone to host Lifetime’s new competition series, American Beauty Star. Think  Project Runway, but for hair and makeup artists. The 36-year-old confesses she totally reached out to Runway host, and fellow Victoria’s Secret Angel, Heidi Klum for tips.“Honestly, when I received the call [to host] I was like, ‘Holy s**t!” Adriana tells ET on the series' L.A. set. “Is that truth? I did not believe it. I swear. I did not believe it. Me, really? With this accent? Really, me? I did not believe it at all.”“I love the show,” she adds. “It’s showing the human side of [the industry]. What goes behind creating a look, what emotions? Where do you find creation, and where do you find creativity?”Alessandra Ambrosio, Adriana Lima and More Victoria's Secret Models Take Over Asia -- See the Pics!EXCLUSIVE: Adriana Lima Reveals When She Feels Most Beautiful -- and Why She 'Married' HerselfEXCLUSIVE: Adriana Lima Reveals When She Feels Most Beautiful -- and Why She 'Married' Herself  The series, premiering Sept 21, pits 12 salon professionals against each other in weekly challenges designed to highlight different facets of the beauty world.“We have challenges from makeovers, to a beauty pop-up bar, red carpet look,” Adriana explains. “Some challenges where they get to express themselves and personalities, or express how they could change the world in different ways.”Adriana admits “everything” about the show surprises her, and that she’s learned a lot from filming, from how to host (“Whoa!”) to beauty tips and tricks.“I learned to embrace the simple things throughout the whole process,” she shares. “It’s about standing up for what you believe ... I find imperfections, mistakes beautiful, too.”The mom of two says she hopes the show will challenge how people view the beauty industry. It’s not all skin deep.“We’re not only celebrating physical beauty, because creation is the start the beauty,” she says. “And how does that happen? Emotions, heart. That’s how the creation process starts. So it’s much more than only appearance and what is put outside. The artist has some kind of connection [to] whatever they are expressing.”Adriana Lima Locks Lips With Metin Hara While on Vacation in Turkey -- See the Steamy Pic!“I think that the industry’s changed,” she adds. “Everyone wants to feel connected with the person behind the makeup or whatever, the picture. People want to see that human connection … [for] my children, I think there’s a lot of positive messages in fashion and in beauty, and those messages are the ones I will embrace and I will reinforce into my children’s lives.”In fact, Adriana says she has no qualms about letting her daughters with ex Marko Jaric, 7-year-old Valentina and 5-year-old Sienna, enter the business.“I have one possible candidate [for modeling],” she teases. “I will not name her, because I don’t know, she may change her mind and I don’t want her to have pressure from everyone out there, OK? So, there is a possibility and whatever is her decision I will be right there, supportive.”Adriana Lima Wears Diamond Wedding Band, Declares 'I Am Committed to Myself'Adriana says she hopes she leads by example for her girls, showing them beauty can be whatever you think it is.“I feel the most beautiful when I’m myself, expressing my feelings,” she says. “If I put on a red lipstick, because I love a red lipstick just because, I don’t have an explanation for that. That’s when I feel beautiful. If I don’t want to use anything, I don’t want to use anything.”That thought process was part of the reason behind a viral Instagram she shared in May, where she announced she was single, claiming she “married” herself. (Adriana has since gone on to enter a relationship with spiritual healer Metin Hara.)“It’s like a symbolic thing,” she says of the post. “It’s talking about loving yourself. That’s how everything starts. If you’re incapable of loving your own self, how can you love anyone else in your life, if you don’t know how to embrace you?”For more on American Beauty Star, check out the video below.'American Beauty Star' Season 1 Trailer: It's 'Project Runway' for Hair and Makeup Artists!




It's now or never!Emilia Clarke shared a cute Instagram selfie on Tuesday of her dying her hair platinum blonde, after years of the naturally brunette actress donning wigs to play Khaleesi on Game of Thrones."AAAHHHHHHH SHHHHIIIII****** I done did it," Clarke wrote. "Mother of dragons meet Emilia. Emilia meet mother of dragons. If you squint just so you might never know. All hail to the magnificence of @kevalexanderhair and @candicebanks74 the genius creators of 'KHALEESI WIG' (and not forgetting all the hair on Game of Thrones for 8 glorious years) for at long last making this magical moment a reality. #khaleesikicksoff #gameofthrones #cominghomeneverfeltsogood."Jon Snow Teaches Ginger Spice a Famous ‘Game of Thrones’ Line and the Result Is HilariousThe 30-year-old actress is back on the Game of Thrones set, after the epic season seven finale last month. Season eight of the hit HBO show will be its final one, and will only contain six episodes.In July, Clarke admitted she has plenty of anxiety over shooting the highly anticipated final season. "Oh God, I get sleepless nights over it," Clarke told Elle magazine. "'Oh, you’re gonna mess it up. It’s the last season, and it’s going to go wrong.' My mates are like, ‘It’s you -- you [and Daenerys] are one and the same now. You need to trust your instincts!’ And I’m like, ‘No, I’ve got to do more research!’""The higher everyone places the mantle, the bigger the fall," she added. "That sounds really awful, but it’s true! I don’t want to disappoint anyone."'Game of Thrones' Stars Emilia Clarke & Kit Harington React to That Season Finale TwistET spoke to Clarke last April, when she talked about nudity on Game of Thrones, strong women and balancing her love life.Watch below:Emilia Clarke on How She Preps for Her 'Game of Thrones' Nude Scenes  Related GalleryActors Who've Undergone Body Transformations For Roles


Midway through Stevie Wonder’s 1973 hit “Living for the City,” the music stops for a skit in which a black man arrives in New York City and is promptly arrested while crossing the street and sentenced to 10 years in prison. That passage, recorded more than four decades ago, speaks to some of the deeply entrenched problems that Colin Kaepernick—and, as of this past weekend, hundreds of other athletes—protests by kneeling during the national anthem.
So it’s not surprising that Wonder was among the first to bring Kaepernick’s gesture into the music world. At the Global Citizen Festival in Central Park on Saturday, the 67-year-old Wonder, helped by his son Kwame Morris, bent both knees—one for America and one, he said, for the world.  A day later, he repeated the gesture with Dave Matthews Band at a concert in Charlottesville, Virginia, benefitting those affected by recent violence there. On the second occasion, he gave a speech mourning bigotry: “If I can see it, dammit, I know you can see it.”
How Trump Turns Unpopular Outbursts Into Political Winners
Donald Trump’s “son of a bitch” comment alluding to Kaepernick and the resulting “take a knee” movement may seem like further confirmation that, under this reality-TV president, the cultural is newly political and vice versa. But entertainers have always been more than entertaining, as Wonder’s example shows. Kaepernick’s defiance, meanwhile, follows in a line that includes Jackie Robinson, Muhammad Ali, and the Olympic sprinters Tommie Smith and John Carlos. The biggest novelty in this latest chapter is just that the president is entering the fray.
The events of this past weekend also highlight the different roles that different kinds of entertainment play in the national discourse. “This is a job,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said to ABC News when defending Donald Trump’s call for protesting athletes to be fired. “And the employers have the right, when the players are working, to have rules.” He was calling for the NFL’s teams as private businesses to curtail First Amendment expressions for players—as they already do, in various ways. Trump’s desire for a shut-up-and-play paradigm to apply to national-anthem etiquette really isn’t far-fetched: “Sports has become a trillion-dollar global entity by projecting athletes, really, who are as bland and apolitical as possible so they don’t offend anybody in the audience,” Dave Zirin, the author of Game Over: How Politics Has Turned the Sports World Upside Down, told NPR in 2013.

The same cannot entirely be said for talents who work in the cultural spheres more readily described as “the arts”—music, film, literature, etc. Commerce certainly shapes the creative expressions of the art world, but even the big-tent pop stars of our time are given to political statements. Kaepernick’s concerns about police brutality are echoed not only in Wonder’s catalogue but also in countless other musicians’ work, from Kendrick Lamar to Lady Gaga. Moreover, the Trump era has seen artworks way more explicitly “disrespectful” to national symbols than anything any athlete has tried. Rappers have toyed with the specter of presidential assassination. Visual artists have replaced the Statue of Liberty’s face with a vagina and painted the American flag in blood. Typically, an artist has to be pretty famous and their work extremely shocking—see Kathy Griffin’s mock decapitation of Trump—to get anything near Kaepernick’s level of attention.
It is largely the presumption of commerce over expression in sports that allows for protests like Kaepernick’s to be so transgressive—and to draw Trump’s special ire. “He’s fired!” Trump bellowed during his Alabama rally, objecting not to athletes protesting as citizens or even as public figures, but rather as employees of a large commercial entity. As many times before, the president’s culture-war escalations are couched in capitalist terms—talk of fan boycotts and dented ratings. “If you see it, even if it’s one player, leave the stadium,” Trump told his audience about kneeling players. “I guarantee things will stop.”
Few people in Stevie Wonder’s audience are likely to walk out if the man who wrote “Living for the City” takes a knee (or if he, as he did at a recent telethon for hurricane relief, calls global-warming skeptics “blind or unintelligent”). Same goes for fans of other artists who’ve followed Wonder’s example and knelt—a list that so far includes Pharrell, John Legend, Eddie Vedder, De La Soul’s Posdnuos, and eight castmembers of 1984 on Broadway. Such creators are expected to give voice to the struggles that led Kaepernick to protest in the first place; it is, in large part, the job of an artist. In doing so, they build their own largely like-minded constituency—it’s often when fans are caught off guard by an artist’s political stance that truly damaging blowback results.
But Wonder’s career is also an example of the power that a hitmaking artist can have as a crystallizer of political attitudes and a chronicler of the moment. Two days before Richard Nixon resigned from office, Wonder released “You Haven’t Done Nothin’”—an eventual No. 1 hit that would be widely seen as a not-so-fond farewell to the president: “We are amazed but not amused / by all the things you say that you’ll do,” he sang. During the 2016 presidential campaign, other musicians remixed the song to refer to Donald Trump. Wonder himself hasn’t officially updated “You Haven’t Don’t Nothin’,” but it’s not hard to imagine, as the president continues to bite back at his critics across the pop-culture landscape, that he might yet.


“The truth is, I am kind of done with politics for now.”
That was Megyn Kelly, on Monday morning, talking to her studio audience during the live debut of her new NBC morning show, Megyn Kelly Today. In response to the declaration, the people gathered within the airy, brightly lit set roared with approval. “Right? I know!” the host continued, her tone breezy and conspiratorial. “You know why! We all feel it. It’s eeeverywhere. It’s everywhere.”
Pleasingly apolitical, relatably indignant, preternaturally glossy: It’s a brand Kelly has been working to cultivate throughout her television career, but particularly within the whirl of publicity that has led to today’s morning-TV debut. In Kelly’s 2016 autobiography, and in glowing profiles with headlines like “Blowhards, Beware: Megyn Kelly Will Slay You Now” and “After Fox, Megyn Kelly Aims To Be a Force for Good,” the former Fox News Channel host—having moved, earlier this year, to NBC—has made a point of emphasizing her conviction that politics is a choice one can make, a topic that can be cordoned off from all the others, and, as such, willfully avoided. “Megyn Kelly Doesn’t Want to Be Political” was the headline of an interview Kelly gave to Elle magazine’s Mattie Kahn, its publication timed to coincide with Monday’s premiere of Megyn Kelly Today. The conversation went in part, like this:
Kahn: But tuning out seems incredibly difficult right now. I’m thinking of people like Jemele Hill on ESPN. There’s a way that politics seeps into so much—
Kelly: She got political.
Kahn: She did.
Kelly: She didn’t have to.
Politics as unseemly—politics as inconvenient—politics as something viewers all feel, and all would prefer to ignore—was thus, unsurprisingly, the ethic Kelly brought to the debut of Megyn Kelly Today, an hour of television that was by turns performatively wacky, stridently emotional, fun, awkward, informative, and weird. There Kelly was, the former lawyer, merrily riding a tandem bike with Al Roker through Times Square. There she was, frying eggs with Matt Lauer (as she flipped them, the eggs splattered over the edges of her pan; Lauer congratulated her nonetheless). There she was, talking in confessional tones about her decision to move to daytime TV (“I wasn’t happy, but I was scared to change”). There she was, tearing up as she told the story of her father’s death, when she was 15, of a heart attack. There she was, receiving a bouquet of red roses from her husband, Doug, who spent the show seated next to Kelly’s mom on a set whose blonde woods and soft lights evoked a Malibu mansion. “Oh! This is a surprise,” Kelly said in response to her husband’s gesture, unconvincingly.
Can Megyn Kelly Escape Her Past?
What Megyn Kelly Today also featured, however, was very, very much of the thing Kelly had cheerily insisted it wouldn’t. Politics, as they are wont to do, infused the morning’s proceedings—there because, yes, politics are eeeeverywhere. “The personal is political” is not merely a rallying cry of a women’s movement from which Kelly has, in public, disassociated herself; it is also the osmotic reality of an America whose president was elevated to the position with the help of reality TV, and in which late-night hosts are shaping healthcare policy for millions of Americans, and in which politics, for many, have daily consequences of life and death. And in which, indeed, Megyn Kelly, journalist—propelled to widespread fame through infotainment’s powerful trajectories—recently found herself in the position to sign an $18 million-a-year contract with NBC.
To mock “politics,” whether as a monolith or as an existential inconvenience, is an easy play and a winning ploy; Kelly is correct, of course, that many Americans, particularly at this hyper-partisan moment, find “politics” both tiresome and anxiety-provoking. But the apolitical stance, particularly from a media figure like Kelly, is as disingenuous in the context of morning television as it is anywhere else—a philosophical extension of the aw-shucks wonder Kelly effected on Monday morning, while Savannah Guthrie gave her a tour of the winding innards of 30 Rock. (Kelly has been an employee of NBC for much of 2017.) As Megyn Kelly knows—as she knows perhaps better than most—politics infuse even, and especially, the things that claim to be apolitical. Even in the morning. Even in a faux-windowed studio in the middle of New York City. The weather is political. The water is political. Football is political. Alex Jones is political. The New Black Panther Party is political. Tamron Hall is political. Swimming pools are political. Santa Claus is political. The phrase “we all feel it” is political.
And yet: “If my producers and I do our jobs,” Kelly said on Monday, cheerily, “you will find out what you need to know today, to get yourself through the day—to have a laugh with us, a smile, sometimes a tear. And maybe a little hope to start your day.”
She paused. “Some fun! That’s what you want to be doing, some fun.”
In the name of apolitical fun (and in the name, of course, of Comcastian vertical integration), Kelly’s first full segment found the host interviewing the cast of Will & Grace—a show that has remained relevant and beloved in large part because of, yes, its politics. Crowded onto a small leather couch meant to mimic the one in Will’s apartment, Megan Mullally (Karen), Sean Hayes (Jack), Debra Messing (Grace), and Eric McCormack (Will) talked about the show’s revival as they jockeyed for space among the couch’s throw pillows. And in the course of the discussion, they mentioned President Trump multiple times—by name and by implication. “Any teaser on current events?” Kelly asked Mullally. “What do you mean? Everything’s going great,” Mullally replied, rolling her eyes dramatically. “The character of Karen, she’s best friends with Donnie and Melania,” Mullally continued, tugging at the neck of her blouse to indicate her discomfort.
Later, Max Mutchnick, Will & Grace’s creator, explained that the show’s revival came about when “I was in London with my husband, and we were talking about the election … ”
Later, reintroducing the show’s cast and creators after a break, Kelly summarized the previous segment’s discussion: “We talked a bit about this show’s impact, and culturally”—Kelly repeated the word for emphasis—“culturally, it had a huge impact.” And then she mentioned the famous interview in which Joe Biden credited Will & Grace with doing more than anything else to bring about the (extremely political) legality of same-sex marriage.
From there, wackiness ensued—bike rides, egg whites, congratulatory mimosas with the cast of the Today show (“Oh-em-gee!” Kelly exclaimed, as Lauer and company swarmed her onstage, bar cart in tow)—all of it building up to the final segment, the one Kelly had been teasing most excitedly throughout the hour: a serious-toned, news-magazine-style profile of Sister Donna Liette. The 77-year-old woman, Kelly said, lowering her voice dramatically, “faced with violence tearing apart her Chicago neighborhood … decided to do something about it.”
“She may look like a sweet little grandmother,” Kelly continued, donning the easy indignation of an anchor about to explain an outrage, “but most days she can be found driving alone through one of America’s toughest neighborhoods: Back of the Yards, Chicago’s South Side, where gun violence is a way of life.”
As Kelly spoke, a chyron displayed: “Chicago Nun Takes Back Her Streets.”
Chicago, and particularly the crime rates of that city, have been a particular touchpoint for the Trump presidency. “If Chicago doesn’t fix the horrible ‘carnage’ going on,” he tweeted in January, “... I will send in the Feds!” It was a sentiment, sent in the early days of his administration, that expanded on Trump’s inaugural address—a speech in which “American carnage” functioned as a leitmotif, and in which the president, in dire tones, spoke of “mothers and children trapped in poverty in our inner cities … and the crime and gangs and drugs that have stolen too many lives and robbed our country of so much unrealized potential.”
Which is to say that Kelly’s choice of interview subject—the “nun taking back her streets”—was deeply political. It celebrated the work of a single white woman, working to “take back her streets” (her streets). It whiffed of “the girl was no saint, either” and “he just is white.” The segment featured pans of the neighborhood set to mournful piano music. At one point, Kelly’s cameras captured a sign placed in a garden that Liette and a community of Chicago mothers had created together. It read, “Putting Neighbor Back in the Hood.”
Kelly’s interview with Liette began like this:
“How many murders do you hear about a week?” she asked.
“Probably five or six or seven a week, at least,” Liette replied.
“It’s like living in a war zone,” Kelly said. It was not a question.
“Almost all of our boys have been shot,” Liette replied.
The segment, in its contours a human-interest story of the kind that might be aired on 60 Minutes or, indeed, the Fox News Channel, was part of the “Settle for More” series that will ostensibly remain a staple of Megyn Kelly Today—the name being “a mantra,” Kelly told her audience on Monday, “that says, if you want change, you must seek it.” (Settle for More is also the title of Kelly’s 2016 autobiography. She mentioned the book multiple times during the show.) This particular iteration of “Settle for More” ended with a pleasantly morning-show twist: Liette and some of the mothers she works with in Chicago joined Kelly onstage, in the studio, surrounding the host in a semicircle. Kelly presented Liette with checks from Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage and from Ace Hardware, to further her work in the community. Everyone applauded. It was a nice thing: money, for people who need it. Money that might help life in “a war zone” seem a little less warlike.
It was also, of course, a deeply political thing—and, in that, a fitting conclusion to the premiere. In the past, when Megyn Kelly has been at her best as a journalist, she has been—a word so often associated with her—prosecutorial: She has, whether addressing Trump’s pattern of misogyny or Karl Rove’s electoral math or O’Reilly or Ailes or even Alex Jones, interrogated the powerful. She has refused to be cowed or charmed, or to fall prey to the smoke and mirrors of televised politics. At her worst, though, Kelly has engaged in a particularly insidious brand of political argument: the kind that refuses to admit itself as politics at all. The kind sees things from a narrow perspective, but claims to be omnivisual. The kind that lobs grenades into the culture war and then innocently throws up its empty hands. The kind that says, before it talks of Joe Biden and Donald Trump and taking back her streets, “I am kind of done with politics for now.”
For her morning-show debut, the fashion-conscious Kelly chose as her inaugural outfit a pair of slim-cut black pants—pants were something she rarely wore during her glass-desked tenure at Fox News, and did as a matter of soft rebellion—topped off with a blouse of pink silk. The shirt’s distinguishing element was the neckline feature known as the pussy bow, and the garment overall was a nearly direct replica of the one worn by Melania Trump just after her husband’s “grab ‘em by the pussy” scandal—and before, it would turn out, political protests would aim to reclaim both the word “pussy” and the color pink. You might be tempted to read into Kelly’s remarkable wardrobe choice—if her show, of course, weren’t apolitical.


This story contains spoilers for the first two episodes of Star Trek: Discovery.
For more than 50 years, Star Trek has obeyed a particular formula when introducing its new shows. The first episode is double-sized, a mini-movie designed to introduce a new vessel (be it Enterprise, Deep Space Nine, or Voyager) and its crew. Our hero is the commanding officer, a steady hand atop a pyramid of Starfleet command (Captains Kirk, Picard, Sisko, Janeway, and Archer). And if there’s conflict, it’s mostly external, as the Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry insisted that Starfleet officers don’t get in fights with each other, though that’s a rule that was made to be broken.
Star Trek: Discovery, which premiered on CBS Sunday night, is the first new Trek show in 12 years (the last, Enterprise, was canceled by UPN in 2005). It’s also the first to debut in the streaming era, which prioritizes serialized storytelling and values die-hard fans who will fork over subscription dollars. That’s why CBS is using Discovery as bait to draw people to its CBS All Access service, where future episodes of the show will air exclusively. And that’s also why Discovery’s action-packed opening episodes—which centered around a Starfleet mutiny and featured a very different kind of main character—felt so incongruous to Trek history. The show probably needed to make such a dramatic shift in order to return to the air, but it’s likely to distress some veteran fans, who have always been resistant to change.
CBS’s Star Trek Could Change the TV Broadcast Model
The star of Discovery is Sonequa Martin-Green, best known for playing Sasha Williams on The Walking Dead. She’s Lieutenant Commander Michael Burnham, the second-in-command on the USS Shenzhou and a loyal deputy to its captain, Philippa Georgiou (Michelle Yeoh). The show’s opening two hours (the first of which aired on CBS, with the second debuting immediately after on CBS All Access) see the Shenzhou stumbling into a Klingon trap designed to provoke warfare between the bellicose alien species and the peaceful Federation. Trek fans would quickly realize from the year provided (2256) that Discovery is set 10 years before the original series, a time when the Klingons were still regarded as mostly mysterious aggressors, stock villains for Captain Kirk to lock horns with from time to time.
It’s an age of greater conflict, which makes sense for the show Bryan Fuller and Alex Kurtzman have created. Discovery is action-packed, has its main narrative set around a Federation-Klingon war, and heavily borrows from the visual style of J.J. Abrams’s rebooted Trek films, replete with lens flares and metallic set dressings, far from the day-glo delights of the original show. The first episode ended with a big cliffhanger, as Klingon warships bore down on the Shenzhou. And viewers were only able to watch the epic conclusion if they signed up for CBS All Access (which is $5.99 per month with ads, or $9.99 per month without).
The tactic appears to have worked—the CBS broadcast, along with the show’s long-established fanbase, has driven All Access subscriptions to unspecified record highs. At a time when brand recognition is key and shows that might have been once dismissed as cult favorites (like Gilmore Girls or Arrested Development) are now highly sought-after, Star Trek is the best imaginable property to launch a streaming service with. But CBS’s ultimate calculation was an interesting one: It’s looking to attract hardcore fans to build up All Access, of course, but it wants Discovery to be conventionally thrilling enough to draw a wider audience, too.
That’s probably why Michael Burnham is the franchise’s first leading character who isn’t a commanding officer—because the pilot episode’s big story twist revolves around her attempt at mutiny. Faced with the Klingon threat, Burnham advises Georgiou to attack their ships preemptively, explaining that Klingon culture respects battle and considers it a form of diplomacy. She’s drawing on her peculiar heritage as a human raised by Vulcans, after her family was killed in a Klingon raid. But when Georgiou ignores her (saying that the Federation doesn’t fire first), Burnham subdues her with a Vulcan neck pinch and tries to launch the weapons herself.
It is the most implausible moment in the otherwise sterling opening episodes of Discovery. Burnham’s respect and love for Georgiou, whom she has served under for seven years, has already been well-established by that point, and her reasons for wanting to open fire on the Klingons are a little too vague. That she’d suddenly turn on her boss, violating a sacred Federation rule, is tough to believe, and Burnham’s move feels like a story decision designed more for shock value than anything else. The Federation and Klingon ships quickly engage in open warfare anyway, and Georgiou and Burnham soon reconcile and go on a recon mission on board a Klingon vessel (where Georgiou is killed in action).
That leads to another cliffhanger: Burnham is convicted of mutiny and stripped of her rank. According to the teaser for next week’s episode (available online only, as all future episodes will be), this will lead to her being placed as a prisoner on the USS Discovery, the show’s titular ship, captained by Gabriel Lorca (Jason Isaacs) and equipped for war with the Klingons. The ongoing storyline isn’t completely unexpected—every other Trek series had them too. But the earlier shows mostly relied on an episodic structure that sold self-contained tales from week to week and emphasized the utopian status quo of the Federation.
It’s hard to know if a series like that—particularly Star Trek: The Next Generation, which remains the gold standard for the franchise—could ever exist on television again. The Next Generation followed a crew whose members were deeply in sync, rarely got in arguments that lasted more than a minute, and all excelled at their jobs. It was, above all, a show about exploration, where the threats were often philosophical rather than physical, and where the rule upon encountering most new alien races was never to interfere with their cultures.
Discovery, like almost every new Trek show, will have growing pains, and may initially struggle to win over the franchise’s die-hard fans as it courts new ones. Its plotting exists on a knife-edge of tension, and characters now openly quarrel with each other. But after 50 years, it was long past time for the show to evolve, and for all CBS’s streaming gimmickry, it’s exciting to have the franchise back and finding new ways to tell stories. As the medium of television evolves, it’s comforting to know that Star Trek is there to evolve right along with it.


On Friday, as Puerto Rico contended with the aftermath of a hurricane that had left much of the island without power, and North Korea threatened to detonate a hydrogen bomb in the Pacific Ocean, the internet-gossip complex grappled instead with the momentous news that an unmarried 20-year-old reality star was pregnant. Kylie Jenner, TMZ reported, the youngest scion of the Kardashian family, had been telling friends that she and her boyfriend, the rapper Travis Scott, were going to have a baby. Unidentified family friends promptly confirmed the news to People. And some fans began to wonder—had Kylie’s mother, Kris Jenner, leaked the news herself to boost the ratings for E!’s Sunday night 10-year-anniversary special of Keeping Up With the Kardashians?
Such an act might seem unconscionably cynical, even for the unrivaled Mama Rose of reality television. But this was the stuff the Kardashian empire was built on: family drama transfigured into family opportunity. When Kris Jenner first began shopping the sizzle reel for her family’s prospective reality show in 2007, it was only a few months after her daughter, Kim Kardashian, had gained notoriety after the release of a sex tape featuring Kardashian and the singer Ray J. “There was so much media coverage swirling around Kim then, both positive and negative, that we knew we had to act fast and take advantage of the moment,” Jenner writes in her memoir. Lemons, meet Minute Maid.
The Real Housewives of Jane Austen
Kim’s sex tape wasn’t mentioned in the 10-year-anniversary special that aired on Sunday night, hosted by the inscrutably bland and improbably ageless Ryan Seacrest. But E!, for the first time, aired the original Keeping Up With the Kardashians sales tape, a minute of footage that turned a wealthy Calabasas family into a global media brand. “Hey, I’m Kim Kardashian, and I get to live every girl’s dream,” Kim, a celebrity stylist at the time, intoned over footage of her posing for photographers, signing autographs, and rifling through stacks of clothing. Seconds later, she was introducing her family. “I’m going to throw raw chicken up your cooch,” her sister Kourtney yelled in grainy definition, apropos of nothing. The reel went on to explain how Kim’s dad was Robert Kardashian, O.J. Simpson’s best friend, and how 16 years ago, Kris had divorced Robert and married the retired Olympian Bruce—now Caitlyn—Jenner. Then Kim wrapped up. Whatever the future held, she explained, “we’ll fight, scratch, and bitch our way through all the drama, together as one big happy family.”
Both the sizzle reel and the anniversary special were presumably meant to be triumphant: the before-and-after celebrations of a family so influential that a simple cocaine rumor involving Kim garnered more social-media engagement than Donald Trump Jr.’s screenshotted Russia emails. And yet, as the 90-minute show went on, it felt increasingly sad, no matter how gamely Kris and her daughters joked about most of them not going to college, or a younger Kim thinking grapefruit was called “greatfruit.” The most mournful presence was Scott Disick, Kourtney’s ex-boyfriend and the father of her three children, seen frowning backstage as Kourtney blithely told a million or so viewers that their relationship was “definitely psychotic.” Over the course of the evening, Disick gnawed anxiously on his hand, sank back into his chair with his feet on the set’s coffee table, and grimaced repeatedly. “I’m dying over here,” he said at one point, a statement that everyone politely ignored.
Then there was Rob Kardashian, notable primarily by his absence, and by the fact that the only footage screened of him all night was from seven or eight years ago, before his weight gain and his self-imposed reclusion. “Our buddy Rob isn’t here,” Seacrest noted briefly, and somewhat patronizingly. “How’s Rob doing, Kris?” Kris assured the world that Rob was doing well, that he’s working on a new clothing line, and she sees him every day. “We’re literally on a family group chat,” Kendall Jenner added, confessing that she frequently mutes it because the messages are too much. At which point Rob was so swiftly forgotten that it became newly apparent why he had to have a baby with his half-sister’s boyfriend’s ex-fiancée to get some of his mother’s attention (the drama all captured, naturally, in a one-season E! docusoap produced by Seacrest and Kris Jenner).
But the saddest figure of all was Kylie, even without the context of her pregnancy. Flashback footage from the show revealed Kylie at age 9, exuberantly mimicking her sister Kim in an improvised monologue and grinning cheekily through her freckles. It also showed her, at the same age, jumping onto her mother’s stripper pole, mocking up a routine that was alarmingly accomplished. “I feel like I can’t even remember a time before Keeping Up,” the present-day Kylie explained, a dead-eyed, Juvederm-plumped shadow of her former self. “Where does this go?” Seacrest asked her. “What do you wanna do when you’re able to drink?” The audience laughed. Kylie chuckled, mirthlessly. “My makeup is my passion, so this show and this opportunity has been really awesome,” she said. Then archival footage from the show chronicled her evolution from spirited tween to reluctant superstar. “I missed out on being normal,” a spotty, make-up free Kylie told Kourtney in one scene. “Being able to feel like I can like get out of the car and nobody’s staring at me.”
All this unfiltered “honesty” is as much a part of the Kardashian brand as is spandex. The cameras, over the last 10 years, have chronicled Kim’s marriage, Kim’s divorce, Kim’s next marriage, the birth of Kourtney’s three children (in graphic detail), Khloe’s marriage to then-NBA player Lamar Odom, the latter’s problems with addiction and almost-fatal overdose in a brothel in Nevada, Kris’s marital woes with her husband, and Caitlyn’s decision to transition. Keeping Up With the Kardashians has captured a family being so profoundly battered and buffeted by fame and notoriety that you have to wonder: Was it worth it? If Kris were offered the same Faustian bargain again, would she accept, knowing everything the next 10 years would bring?
As the special wrapped up, producers wheeled out an elaborately decorated cake and trays of champagne. “You guys, this is our favorite cake from Hansen’s,” an indeterminate voice exclaimed, because no product can be left unplaced. Then, as Lorde’s “Supercut” played, a montage of old footage from the past 10 years played out: fights, bikini waxes, fillers gone wrong, Kim’s butt being X-rayed, a tween Kylie doing an impression of “Girls Gone Wild,” her dad’s horrified reaction. But the final few scenes were of tears: Kim’s, Rob’s, Scott’s, Khloe’s, Kim’s again, and finally Kris’s, as she told her daughters her husband had left her. In closing, the camera showed the Kardashian-Jenners on vacation years ago, as a wave drenched and destabilized them all on their luxury yacht—as apt a metaphor as the producers could find for the impact on a family of a decade of television.


This story contains spoilers through the entirety of mother!
The second act of mother!, Darren Aronofosky’s divisive new film, escalates quickly. In one scene, the character played by Jennifer Lawrence—identified only as “Mother”—is embodying domestic goddesshood, preparing a nursery for her unborn child and serving Pinterest-worthy small plates to her narcissist poet of a husband, simply called “Him” (Javier Bardem). Minutes later, she’s hyperventilating while looters tear her kitchen apart, a rave kicks off in her living room, a strange religious cult forms on the stairwell, refugees get trapped behind wire fences in her entryway, she’s pepper-sprayed in the face by riot police, explosions rattle the house, Kristen Wiig assassinates a group of hostages, and a cop who tries to help Mother has his head blown off by a rifle.
This cinematic segue from a Restoration Hardware catalog into a war zone in a matter of minutes is one of the elements of the film that’s perplexed audiences. The fact that (monumental spoiler ahead) Mother then gives birth to a baby which is killed and eaten in front of her by the aforementioned sinister cult, also seems to have offended some people. It’s just not what you’d necessarily expect from a major film released by Paramount Pictures starring Lawrence, America’s indubitable sweetheart. But there is a context within which mother! makes perfect sense, and a discipline to which it’s remarkably faithful: Antonin Artaud’s Theater of Cruelty.
What Is the Meaning of Mother!?
Artaud, a French writer and dramatist, died in 1948. During his life, which was plagued by mental illness and drug addiction, he achieved relatively little artistic success: His one surviving theatrical play, Jet de Sang (Jet of Blood) wasn’t staged until decades after his death, and a radio play he wrote and recorded called Pour en Finir avec le Jugement de dieu was shelved before it was broadcast because it largely consisted of unintelligible references to God and bodily functions, interspersed with random bursts of sound. But his manifesto for a “theater of cruelty” has endured, influencing some of the most innovative directors of the 20th century, from Peter Brook to Lars von Trier. Mother!, with its immersive, all-encompassing chaos, its dream-like symbolism, and its determination to shock its audience out of complacency, is an experiment in Artaudian cinema—a narrative of creation and destruction that confronts viewers with the absurd violence of reality.
“Without an element of cruelty at the root of every spectacle, the theater is not possible,” Artaud wrote in his 1938 book The Theatre and Its Double. “In our present state of degeneration it is through the skin that metaphysics must be made to re-enter our minds.” Published the year before the start of World War II, The Theatre and Its Double was responding to a world that Artaud saw as ravaged by “disorder, famine, blood, war, and epidemics,” and to a polite kind of theater that was unable to offer a true portrait of humanity. “There are too many signs that everything that used to sustain our lives no longer does so, that we are all mad, desperate, and sick,” he wrote. “And I call for us to react.”
This sense of fury and provocation underpins mother!, which Aronofsky has described as a movie he wanted to “howl at the moon.” Lawrence’s character is Gaia, mother nature; the house she lives in with Him is the Earth. It’s a quiet, peaceful (blandly decorated) paradise until it’s plagued by humans, in the form of Ed Harris and Michelle Pfeiffer, who fight, screw, spill, get sloppy drunk, make messes in the kitchen, and leave bloody tissues everywhere. Their sons arrive, prompting a vicious murder and a raging wake in which the metaphor becomes clear: Humans are ruining Mother’s world. Mother! is a climate-change parable that uses horrific imagery, discomfiting sounds, and subconscious irritants to call attention to what Aronofsky sees as a profound crisis for humanity, one that we need to be jarred into noticing.
The main difference between mother! and most of Artaud’s work is that it isn’t surreal—the story has a clear and recognizable plot about an artist who craves recognition and his much-younger wife who feeds his ego. And yet it’s strangely similar to Jet de Sang, which also opens with a happy, simple world that the play proceeds to destroy. In the first scene, a young man and a young woman profess their love for each other. Then a hurricane ravages the stage, stars collide, and a storm of severed limbs, scorpions, frogs, beetles, and architectural elements rains upon the stage (Artaud resisted offering insight into how directors might stage this scene). The Young Man and Woman are chased away by degenerate sinners: a prostitute, a knight, a wet nurse, a priest, and God himself.
Jet de Sang was Artaud’s attempt to create “theater which events do not exceed, whose resonance is deep within us, dominating the instability of the times.” He wrote of wanting to emulate Hieronymus Bosch and Matthias Grünewald in representing the monstrous nature of human sin as spectacle. The riotous second act of mother!, a kind of 21st-century Dante’s Inferno, replicates this imagery, absorbing audiences in Mother’s point of view as she witnesses flashes of grotesque faces and frenzied rituals. The overall effect is, as Artaud wrote, “a theater in which violent physical images crush and hypnotize the sensibility of the spectator seized by the theater as by a whirlwind of higher forces.”
Aronofsky specifically uses sound to add to the chaos, throwing in discordant, painful high-frequency notes to create tension, and layering fragments of obscene insults to illustrate rising disorder: After Mother rejects the advances of a male stranger at the end of the first half of the film, he spits, “You’re an arrogant cunt.” The film’s dialogue is almost tangential; at its best, it’s stilted and strange. (Bardem’s character, recalling how his house burnt down, oddly describes the trauma of losing everything, even “your dirty toothbrush.”) This is Artaudian, too: He considered language to be insufficient in communicating the pain of existence. He also complained that “no one ... knows how to scream anymore,” an assertion that finds fresh meaning with the news that Lawrence reportedly ruptured her diaphragm while filming some of her more intense vocal scenes.
Another, odd parallel is that Artaud, in the opening chapter of his book, describes the ravaging effects of a plague on a population, specifically “organs that grow heavy and turn to carbon.” This is the exact imagery Aronofsky uses to convey the increasing decay of Mother’s home—a beating heart she can sense through the walls, and that she observes blackening until it dies.
But the most provocative element of mother! occurs toward the very end, when a baby is murdered and subsequently eaten by a frenzied mob. While Artaud never included the death of a baby in any of his existing work, it’s a recurring trope in modern theater. In 1965, the producers of Edward Bond’s Saved were prosecuted after his play included a scene of a baby being tortured and stoned to death by a group of bored, disaffected teenagers. Bond, like Artaud, was trying to illustrate that violence is inherent in human nature, and that the worst atrocities of the 20th century—the Holocaust, Hiroshima—came from instincts that have never fully been neutered. In 1998, the playwright Sarah Kane tackled similar themes in her play Blasted, in which war erupts in a Leeds hotel room, and one of the characters—after being blinded and raped—eats a dead baby onstage.
As a symbol, a baby represents the most potent form of vulnerable human goodness, and so when it’s destroyed in art, it’s to truly emphasize a fundamental kind of evil. That doesn’t mean people won’t find it horrific or manipulative—and that’s usually the point. Mother! is an attempt both to portray the darkness that exists within humankind, and to present it to audiences in so shocking and disturbing a fashion that they can’t ignore or reason away what they’ve seen. “Theater of cruelty” refers not just to the cruelty of life, but to cruelty inflicted on audience members to stir them out of their everyday torpor. As Artaud wrote, “the images and movements employed will not be there solely for the external pleasure of eye or ear, but for that more secret and profitable one of the spirit.”
It’s a noble purpose, maybe, but not one that’s commercially viable, even now. “In modern culture, powerful machinery has been set up whereby dissident work, after gaining an initial semi-official status as ‘avant-garde,’ is gradually absorbed and rendered acceptable,” Susan Sontag once wrote. “But Artaud’s practical activities in the theater barely qualified for this kind of cooptation.” Artists, particularly filmmakers, continue to weave his theories into their own work, but the end result is often failure. Mother!, which has been given the rare and dubious honor of an F grade by CinemaScore, is not a commercial success. But the sheer volume of articles that attempt to analyze and unpack it (including this one) proves that people are thinking about it. Which is exactly what Artaud—and presumably Aronofsky—wanted.


Joan Didion Is Ready for Her Close-Up
Dana Spiotta | Vogue
“What struck me, as a young person, was how unapologetic [Didion] always appeared, how self-possessed. She, like Susan Sontag—another writer who didn’t seem to mind getting her photo taken—remade for me what was possible for women. They were intellectuals who also seemed to understand what their physical selves signified for the culture. We gazed at them, and they gazed back.”
The Original Shock of Rolling Stone
Amanda Petrusich | The New Yorker
“That pop music dominates the cultural conversation is evident and presumed. Yet, in the 1960s, rock records didn’t command column inches in serious publications. Back then, [Jann] Wenner’s insistence on the music’s significance and import—its relevance to the Zeitgeist, its abundance—was a lunatic gesture.”
Beware the Open-Plan Kitchen
Caitlin Flanagan | Vulture
“Bristol and Aubrey Marunde are the stars of Flip or Flop Vegas, and they have brought the HGTV formula—an endless loop of television in which the dreams of women are made manifest by the swinging sledgehammers of men—to the quivering edge of reductio ad absurdum. They love one another; they never quarrel; they worship together at the Church of Home Depot in the Parish of Lowe’s.”
Colin Kaepernick and Blade Runner: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
Who’s Laughing Now?
Tom Bissell | Harper’s
“At the end of the 2004 show [of SNL], after Trump wishes everyone a good night and the credits roll, he can be seen embracing Seth Meyers, who, 13 years on, would emerge as one of his chief comedy antagonists. … And there’s Trump shaking hands with, of all people, Questlove from the Roots. And then there came a great earthquake, and the full moon became like blood, and the stars of the sky fell to the earth.”
Harry Dean Stanton: Fully Inhabiting Scenes, Not Stealing Them
Manohla Dargis | The New York Times
“His role as Travis [in Paris, Texas], who’s on a redemptive journey, certainly elevated Mr. Stanton’s profile and helped make him an emblem of cool. … Yet even as Paris, Texas brought Mr. Stanton a measure of fame, he remained a quintessential character actor, a performer who ranged wide and far (Laverne & Shirley!), imparting something real and true called Harry Dean Stanton.”
Jeff Bridges Will Be ‘the Dude,’ Now and Forever
Caity Weaver | GQ
“Jeff Bridges isn't turned off by this, as some already famous actors might be—by the fanatical, undying popularity of a weird thing he did once, back in 1998, that no one has ever forgotten, that people quote at him ad nauseam. He’s too imperturbable, too Dude for that. Bridges is famously cool with the weighty Lebowski legacy. It’s obvious why within moments of meeting him.”
From Ghost Town to Havana: Two Teams, Two Countries, One Game
Rick Paulas | Longreads
“The resulting documentary about the weeklong trip tells the stories of two coaches and two baseball teams, but more than that, it exposes ways in which the American model of youth development has fallen short compared to Cuba. For starters, having the security, both economic and social, … that allows the time to coach, as opposed to the U.S. model of relying on the good hearts of volunteers, which is to say, those with enough money to have the free time to do so.”
The Many Arms of Takashi Murakami’s Career
Mengna Du | Hyperallergic
“Murakami always strives to complicate conventional dichotomies created by institutions—between the low and the high, the marginalized and the mainstream, the East and the West—but the minute he succeeds, he fails. From his earliest attempt to subvert Nihonga through Nihonga itself, to his embracing of the formerly marginal otaku subculture, he seems never to be able to escape the cycle of resistance, cooptation, retreat, and repeat.”


Don’t Miss
How This Year’s Oscars Contenders Are Tackling Trump—David Sims notes that some of the biggest hits, and one notable flop, at the Toronto International Film Festival played as blunt allegories for the current political moment.
The Business of Creativity
How My First Novel Became a Movie—Caren Lissner explains how it took 14 years of false starts, navigating Hollywood, and a modest payout for her book Carrie Pilby to be adapted into a Netflix film.
Saving One of Western Art’s Most Iconic Paintings—Kimberly Chrisman-Campbell goes inside the massive, two-year museum effort to conserve The Blue Boy, Thomas Gainsborough’s famed 18th-century portrait.
TV
Women Won Big at the 2017 Emmys—David Sims recaps the award show, where top honors went to Big Little Lies, Veep, and The Handmaid’s Tale.
Sean Spicer and the Self-Contradicting Politics of the Emmys—Spencer Kornhaber thinks the cameo by the former press secretary put a confusing spin on the many anti-Trump jokes of the night.
Veep’s Showrunner on Clinton, Trump, and Insulting Jonah—Megan Garber talks to David Mandel about writing political satire for a fractious world ahead of his Emmy acceptance.
How the Emmy Awards Put Hulu on the Map—David Sims notes that The Handmaid’s Tale became the first streaming-TV show to win Best Drama Series, an honor that surprisingly didn’t go to Netflix.
The State: A Provocative New Drama Considers ISIS—Sophie Gilbert reviews the four-part miniseries by Wolf Hall’s Peter Kosminsky that explores life inside the terrorist group for the Britons who join up.
The Anger of Jimmy Kimmel—Megan Garber analyzes the late-night host’s Tuesday monologue on the politics of American health care, in which he offered indignation rather than tears.
The Good Place Is Still TV Heaven—Sophie Gilbert says NBC’s quirky hit returns with more moral philosophy, food puns, and otherworldly humor.
Transparent Tackles Israel-Palestine, and Other Boundary Issues—Spencer Kornhaber writes that the dramedy’s unusually joyful fourth season says that division is agony and reconciliation is a process.
Film
What Is the Meaning of mother!?—David Sims delves into the plot, allegories, and shocking ending of one of the most surprising Hollywood releases of the year.
Kingsman: The Golden Circle Is More Farce Than Satire—Christopher Orr believes that while the sequel shares some of its predecessor’s strengths, this installment of the comic-action franchise is broader and less original.
Battle of the Sexes Is a Breezy Crowd-Pleaser—David Sims offers his opinion on the film about a famed 1973 tennis match with surprising resonance for today.
Lady Gaga’s Illness Is Not a Metaphor—Spencer Kornhaber dives into the new film that details the reason the star postponed her recent tour and tests cultural attitudes about gender, pain, and pop.
Stronger Is a Profound, Oscar-Worthy Gem—David Sims watches the surprisingly excellent inspirational drama, in which Jake Gyllenhaal plays Jeff Bauman, who lost his legs in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing.
Books
There and Back Again—Vann R. Newkirk II ponders what J.R.R. Tolkien’s classic The Hobbit still has to offer, 80 years after its publication.


Transparent is the rare TV show held up as a symbol of the Obama era to return in 2017 without piling on references to Donald Trump. But the fourth season of the soulful Amazon dramedy about a Los Angeles family whose onetime patriarch transitions genders at age 68 could, if you wanted, be read as one long subtweet of wall builders. It’s a 10-episode riff on the concept of borders, with a riskier and more explicit political theme than most other shows would dare.
That hot-button theme? Drumroll ... the Israel-Palestine conflict. Yes, really. Maura Pfefferman, having returned to academia, is invited to lecture at an Israeli conference on gender and Judaism. One of her adult children tags along—followed, after a shocking Holy Land revelation, by the rest of the Pfeffermans. Ali, the youngest and wokest of Maura’s three kids, connects with an activist named Lyfe who shows her around Ramallah. Her growing distress about the plight of Palestinians complicates what would otherwise be an intergenerational Birthright trip.
The Brilliant Challenge of Transparent
The borders motif plays out in smaller ways, too. The family’s gorgeous home in the Pacific Palisades is being Airbnb’d to an odd German family who’s hostile to any Pfeffermans living in the basement unit. The lonely but overbearing Shelly moves in with Josh, collapsing the mother-son buffer zone. Sarah and Len consider letting another lover into their de facto marriage. Alia Shawkat’s groovy preschool teacher, a new addition, observes that deception often takes the place of boundaries in relationships: “You compartmentalize. ... It’s human.” Jason Mantzoukas, playing a reformed pothead, says, “Boundaries are how people tell other people what they need.” In every case, you see the value of borders maintained conscientiously—but often, peace comes from opening up.
Three years after its initial wave of acclaim, Transparent is as beautiful television as ever, making great use of the hard-won familiarity between its audience and its characters. Previous seasons reveled in the self-involved Pfeffermans torturing themselves, but the show now eases off the pain and lets its characters just live, somewhat contentedly, for a bit. Deep thinking about sex as a source of both trauma and healing obviously informed the scripts, too. An early scene, for example, has Ali being interviewed by college administrators looking into harassment allegations against her former lover and boss. “Nothing was done to me here, do you understand?” she says. A Pfefferman is, for once, not triggered.
Well—scratch that. The investigation, as well as a riotously mean poem by its target published in The New Yorker, does kick Ali into a bit of spiral. But her angst isn’t overdone, communicated in grace notes during the small-scale and emotionally generous first few episodes. Amid the grating yet comforting din of a family dinner in the premiere, Ali, Sarah, and Josh escape to the rooftop to get high but instead just banter in the cruel-but-loving way that only brothers and sisters can. A BuzzFeed quiz they take sends the trio to a sex-addiction group therapy session—and like so much of Transparent, the expedition is outwardly comedic but inwardly serious, spiritual.
The conceit of the Israel trip keeps the Pfeffermans mostly together for the season, which means that rather than wrecking strangers’ lives they’re instead negotiating with one another. It also means this exquisite cast gets to work as a full ensemble. The creator Jill Soloway’s team has perfected the art of crosstalk, somehow wringing huge laughs from how these characters, like all of us, are mostly only capable of mediocre jokes. Touring Jerusalem, the family stops at the handprint of Jesus on the Via Dolorosa, and the fact that they’ve only ever lived in a Jewish American bubble has never been funnier. “I don’t get it, if Jesus was the Son of God, why did he just grow up to be a carpenter?” Len asks. Sarah shoots back, with endearing lameness, “Harrison Ford was a carpenter.”
The characters’ shaggy-dog awkwardness, it must be said, is sometimes shared by the show itself to its detriment. Maura’s friend Davina, a trans AIDS patient in a less-than-happy relationship, gets her biography told in flashback—but it, unfortunately, comes off as shoehorned-in and rather rote. The long-suffering Shelly unveils a deep secret in what should have been one of the season’s emotional climaxes, but a lack of set-up makes it land like a non-sequitur. And Ali’s journey through the West Bank—while mostly fascinating and stereotype-busting—has a tinge of explainer journalism. But even such missteps are admirable signs of the show insisting on the full humanity of marginalized people, regardless of which side of any given border they’re on.
The show wisely doesn’t make too much of the metaphors inherent in its Israel-Palestine plotline, but they’re obvious. Viewers are explicitly reminded that Israel represented a fresh start for persecuted Jews, but also that such relief meant others’ torment. Previous seasons have stressed how liberation—for Maura from masculinity, but also for others from various situations they felt oppressed by—can be a selfish act, inflicting pain on bystanders. There’s also the notion that Israel is a land divided much as a person’s identity can be bifurcated, which the somewhat hallucinatory season emphasizes by giving each of the Pfeffermans their own imaginary friend. Reconciliation can be an agonizing process, and Transparent never suggests easy answers. But its compassion for all who struggle feels, now more than ever, like progress.


Jeff Bauman’s life story is a devastating and inspiring tale of loss and triumph over adversity: His legs were amputated above the knee after he was wounded in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing, but with the aid of prosthetics, he learned to walk again. The fear I had going into Stronger, the film about Bauman’s recovery starring Jake Gyllenhaal, was that it would cram this genuinely wrenching material into the Hollywood “based on a true story” formula, resulting in a three-act movie of tragedy, love, and stirring achievement that exists primarily as a showcase for an Oscar campaign.
But Stronger, which is directed by David Gordon Green (a former indie darling with one of the most eclectic resumes in the film industry), distinguishes itself with its attention to detail and its focus not on the physical feat of Bauman’s rehabilitation, but on his interior battle with post-traumatic stress. The performances, particularly from Gyllenhaal and Tatiana Maslany (as Bauman’s girlfriend, Erin Hurley), are certainly Oscar-worthy, and the story arc largely follows the inspirational parabola of Hollywood screenwriting. But the movie shouldn’t be dismissed as just another real-life drama to catch on cable TV someday; Stronger is a profound, sensitively made gem.
Jeff Bauman, Boston Marathon's 'Man in the Chair,' Slowly Learning to Walk Again
When we meet Bauman, he’s a lovable, hard-drinking Bostonian working at the deli counter at Costco and trying (vainly) to win back Hurley’s heart after a recent breakup. After hearing that she’s running in the Boston Marathon, Bauman plants himself near the finish line to cheer her on and is wounded in the subsequent terrorist attack. Green keeps the horror of the incident at arm’s length at first (we see the explosion, in the distance, from Hurley’s perspective), though he fills in details later as Bauman begins to remember more about that terrible day.
Crucially, Green and the Stronger screenwriter John Pollono emphasize Bauman’s perspective, and are committed to closing the distance between his distressing situation and the audience. One beautifully shot scene set not long after the bombing illustrates Green’s approach: The director follows the first changing of Bauman’s leg dressings, where the doctors and nurses comfortingly advise him that some amputees choose to watch the procedure and others do not, and that there’s no wrong decision.
Green trains the camera behind Bauman’s head, keeping everything else out of focus as the nurses guide him through the expected pain and shock of the procedure. Hurley, meanwhile, comes in and out of the frame, first unsure of how to offer support, then withdrawing, then slowly returning to Bauman’s side. The moment is perfectly choreographed while feeling entirely natural; it involves routine medical details the viewer might not think to consider, all the while invoking the fraught dynamics of Bauman and Hurley’s relationship and how they’ve changed after the attack. I later learned Green had hired Bauman’s real-life doctors and nurses for the scene to lend it authenticity—and it shows.
That verisimilitude persists throughout the film, even after Bauman leaves the hospital and starts the slow business of returning to a somewhat normal existence. He lives with his mother (a lively Miranda Richardson) in a cramped walkup apartment, and shares her penchant for drinking. He has to contend with his celebrity as he quickly becomes a living symbol of the “Boston Strong” spirit and is regularly accosted by strangers about his bravery. “Am I a hero for standing there and getting my legs blown off?” he asks one admirer. Gyllenhaal makes sure even these bleak statements have a tinge of dark humor, as Bauman tries to keep up appearances.
Most important of all is Bauman’s relationship with Hurley, and Stronger’s exploration of how their bond is initially motivated by her deep guilt over his presence at the marathon but eventually becomes something more tender. Green isn’t afraid to acknowledge the difficulties of a romantic relationship in which one partner serves as a caregiver. He’s also wise to avoid the common pitfalls of similar movies, where the supportive wife or partner doesn’t get much of a chance to be a real character. Maslany’s work in Stronger is just as heartfelt and textured as Gyllenhaal’s, and she’s given space to flesh out Hurley’s own trauma, and flaws, after the bombing.
The film does sag a little in its downbeat middle act, as Bauman sinks deeper into denial about his PTSD and some inevitable confrontations ensue. But Green wants this, in the end, to be a movie about overcoming incredible odds. Stronger is such a raw, exposed nerve of a film that it can be uncomfortable to take in, even in lighter scenes where Bauman is drinking with his friends and family. And yet there’s a genuineness to Green’s vision, a drive to avoid the narrative shortcuts that movies like this usually lean on. Coupled with two fantastic leading performances, that makes for a true-story drama that actually lives up to the remarkable reality it’s trying to portray.


For nearly 100 years, he’s been the star attraction in the palatial portrait gallery of The Huntington Library, Art Collections, and Botanical Gardens, a turn-of-the-century estate in tony San Marino, California. Today, he lies on a table in a small, chilled room above some administrative offices, surrounded by surgical tools, looking more than ever like a vulnerable boy on the cusp of adolescence, playing dress-up in a cavalier’s clothes.
He is Thomas Gainsborough’s The Blue Boy, the famed 1770 portrait of a young child in a blue satin doublet, cape, and breeches, holding a beplumed wide-brimmed hat—a kind of English Civil War cosplay popular for masquerade balls in the 18th century. Watching over him is Christina O’Connell, the museum’s unflappable senior paintings conservator. Charged with cleaning, preserving, and repairing the world-renowned art collection, O’Connell has just embarked on a groundbreaking two-year conservation effort, dubbed Project Blue Boy.
This isn’t O’Connell’s first peek at the raw, worn edges of The Blue Boy’s canvas. When she arrived at The Huntington four years ago, her big inaugural project was transferring The Blue Boy from his ornate, early 20th–century frame to a more historically appropriate 18th-century frame. Now, she has removed that frame to get a much closer look at the painting itself. O’Connell is fortunate in that she has plenty of material for comparison: The Huntington owns no fewer than 13 Gainsborough paintings, including one with flaking paint awaiting O’Connell’s attention on a nearby table.
It’s going to have to wait a while. O’Connell is currently in the midst of an intense three-month scientific analysis period. The Blue Boy will be reframed and returned to the portrait gallery on November 1. It will remain there for 10 months while O’Connell processes reams of data and formulates her treatment plan. Then the painting will come down for another several months of treatment. Part of this work will be done in the lab, but as much as possible will be completed in a cordoned-off area of the portrait gallery, in full view of the visiting public.
Although The Huntington has long had a state-of-the-art conservation lab and a team of paper conservators to care for the institution’s collection of 420,000 rare books and seven million manuscripts, this is the first time The Blue Boy has had a permanent caretaker, rather than relying on freelancers for quick fixes. “Past treatments have been short-term solutions, so a more comprehensive treatment is overdue,” O’Connell says. Another impetus for his makeover is the 100th anniversary of the institution’s charter, approaching in 2019. O’Connell aims to wrap up Project Blue Boy in time for the celebrations.
O’Connell isn’t daunted by the prospect of meddling with a work of art so famous that it’s been likened to an American Mona Lisa. “I’ve worked on paintings in worse condition that this,” she says. “I’ve worked on paintings that arrived in pieces.” And it won’t be her first time working in public, either. She was part of a team that painstakingly conserved a Sebastiano Mainardi altarpiece in front of visitors to the Indianapolis Museum of Art. She plans to hold “Ask the Conservator” Q&A sessions in the gallery, but she downplays the spectator appeal of her job. “I imagine it will be very boring for them as I’m taking my tiny, tiny brush and adding material to microscopic areas of peeling and cracking,” she says with a laugh.
With a master of science degree in art conservation from the University of Delaware, O’Connell is trained in chemistry as well as studio art and art history. In addition to a rigorous educational background, paintings conservators need what she calls “hand skills”: manual dexterity, steadiness, and artistic ability “to intricately reintegrate any damages so that the original brushwork of the artist can be seen and understood.” The Blue Boy’s issues that need fixing are “both structural and visual,” O’Connell says. The original canvas was lined a century or so ago, and the lining is beginning to separate. Paint is lifting and flaking in some areas, though it’s being held down by multiple layers of old varnish; as O’Connell removes yellowing topcoats and trapped dirt, she’ll deal with the deterioration beneath. The painting’s wooden stretcher is visible where the canvas has worn away at the edges; O’Connell hopes to confirm that it is the original, 18th-century support.  
O’Connell’s overarching goal is to keep the beloved painting on display as much as possible. “He has not been off view for more than a couple of days since The Huntington opened to the public in 1928,” says Melinda McCurdy, the museum’s associate curator of British art. The institution has made a major effort to publicize Project Blue Boy; the 207-acre campus is dotted with signs alerting visitors to the painting’s unprecedented—if temporary—absence. The project will also be chronicled on The Huntington’s blog and social-media feeds. As well as keeping The Blue Boy visible, the publicity will “educate the public about conservation,” McCurdy says. “They imagine what it is, but they have no idea what conservation actually entails.”
For one thing, it involves a shocking amount of paperwork. “Documentation is a really big part of what conservators do,” says O’Connell, patting a thick stack of file folders holding a century’s worth of Blue Boy scholarship. “Right now, I’m studying, observing, and documenting. In a nutshell, I’m understanding the materials and techniques of Gainsborough and how they have aged over time, and also the previous conservation efforts and how those have aged over time.” Both in the files and on the canvas, she’s looking for anything that’s been added to—or taken away from—the painting since it left Gainsborough’s studio.
Forensic science is also a big part of O’Connell’s job. UV light will indicate how evenly and heavily layers of varnish have been applied over time, and infrared light will reveal Gainsborough’s preparatory layers. X-ray fluorescence will help O’Connell understand which pigments the artist used. Paint samples taken in 2009—“smaller than a period on a printed page”—will be reanalyzed using updated techniques. “All of these different analyses provide different pieces of the puzzle,” O’Connell says.
None of this equipment comes cheap; fortunately, corporate and private donors have jumped at the chance to be part of the historic project. “Everyone’s doing us a favor,” O’Connell tells me. GE allowed her to rent a digital x-ray machine for a single day; the painting had to be moved down to a basement storage room, where cinderblock walls offered protection from the radiation. “It was amazing to see the paint layers revealed in real time,” McCurdy says. “It was just a little glimpse into what we’re going to learn.”
Pride of place in O’Connell’s lab is given to a six-foot-tall surgical microscope on loan from the medical-instruments company Haag-Streit. While The Huntington’s paper conservators already had a high-tech benchtop microscope, this one has the long neck necessary to reach over the 6-by-4-foot canvas. (“Luckily, I’m tall and I have long arms,” O’Connell jokes.) The microscope features dual eyepieces, a monitor showing visitors the conservator’s view, and a footpad that allows O’Connell to adjust the microscope without taking her hands off her work. (She’s had to give up the sturdy clogs she normally wears in the lab in favor of thin-soled ballet flats while she learns to manipulate the sensitive controls.) Best of all, the microscope’s base is so heavy that it won’t tip over in an earthquake.
Earthquakes are never far from O’Connell’s mind when a masterpiece like The Blue Boy is on her table. She “put[s] him to bed every night,” building him a fortress of ethafoam blocks, boards, and plastic tarps, carefully weighted down in case of disaster. While the painting is insured for millions of dollars, it is, of course, irreplaceable. For example, if it were arriving on the market today in its native England, it would “definitely be stopped” from coming to the U.S. by modern U.K. cultural heritage laws, McCurdy says.
Back in 1921, the American railroad magnate Henry Huntington acquired The Blue Boy from the Duke of Westminster for just $728,000. Though a bargain by today’s standards, at the time it was the highest price ever paid for a painting, albeit one described by The New York Times as “the world’s most beautiful picture.” The media breathlessly chronicled the portrait’s journey “from gilded galleries in Park Lane to the Wild West across the winter sea,” to quote Cole Porter’s ditty The Blue Boy Blues. By the time it arrived at Huntington’s California estate, it was not just a painting but also an icon.
Since then, The Blue Boy has become a part of The Huntington’s DNA. At one point, the museum even installed a trap door beneath the painting, allegedly so it could be whisked into a basement bomb shelter in the event of a nuclear attack. That same basement now holds a collection of Blue Boy kitsch, from ashtrays to needlepoint pillows, assembled by an enthusiastic donor.
The Blue Boy has become part of the Western cultural DNA, too. One of the painting’s first owners was John Hoppner, a painter whose work is represented in The Huntington’s collection. The Pop Art pioneer Robert Rauschenberg credited The Blue Boy with inspiring him to become a painter after he visited The Huntington on shore leave from the Navy during World War II. More recently, the L.A. artist Alex Israel evoked it in his 2014 self-portrait in a blue satin Dodgers jacket. The contemporary portraitist Kehinde Wiley, who took art classes at The Huntington as a child, cites The Blue Boy as a transforming influence. Quentin Tarantino paid tribute to a now-lost silent movie about the painting—F. W. Murnau’s 1919 Der Knabe in Blau—by putting Jamie Foxx in a frilly blue suit in Django Unchained.
“It’s famous not just because it’s famous. It’s famous because it’s good,” McCurdy points out. Nevertheless, the painting’s fame has tended to obscure how little scholars really know about it. Even the sitter’s very identity is in question. Though The Blue Boy was long thought to be a portrait of Gainsborough’s young neighbor, Jonathan Buttall, recent scholarship points to a model even closer to home: Gainsborough Dupont, the artist’s nephew and assistant.
While Project Blue Boy is still in its early stages, O’Connell is already confident that it will uncover some surprises. X-rays performed in 1939 revealed an unfinished portrait of an older man behind his head. Further studies in 1994 uncovered a fluffy white dog at the boy’s feet—possibly the artist’s own English water spaniel, Tristram. McCurdy hopes the current investigation will answer questions not just about The Blue Boy, but also about that ghostly unfinished portrait. “There’s a backstory behind why that portrait was abandoned,” she says. “If we can learn more about that painting, we may uncover some fascinating anecdote about Gainsborough’s life or studio practice.” Thanks to recent advances in technology, “there’s a chance we’re going to get a pretty clear image of that face,” she predicts.
McCurdy, who came to the The Huntington as a graduate student 17 years ago, has been waiting a long time to see The Blue Boy’s true colors. “One thing I’m looking forward to is getting as close as possible to Gainsborough’s original palette,” she says. “It’s under layers of layers of varnish, which discolors over time. Even if only a few layers come off, it will look like a whole new painting.” But not too new. “We don’t want it to look brand new—it’s not!” McCurdy explains. “Paintings tend to look jarring when they’re first cleaned. It’s always a balance between the artist’s intent and public expectations.”
Touring The Huntington’s portrait gallery, hung with full-length paintings by Gainsborough and his contemporaries, it’s immediately evident which canvases have undergone similar conservation treatments: They positively glow with depth, clarity, and saturated colors, while the untreated canvases look hazy, chalky, and dull in comparison. But it’s impossible to tell where the painter’s brushstrokes end and the conservator’s begin. “If I do my job right, you don’t see my work,” O’Connell says. “It’s invisible.”


When Kingsman: The Secret Service landed in theaters two years ago, it was a surprising, if modestly guilty, pleasure. For more than 30 years—going back at least as far as Never Say Never Again—James Bond had been derided within his own franchise as a “dinosaur,” for his tailored suits, sexist attitudes, and proclivity for violence. Kingsman thus served as a kind of Jurassic Park for the Bondian gentleman spy, resurrecting him from prehistoric Connery DNA discovered in fossilized amber somewhere. It was, as I noted at the time, “reactionary bordering on retrograde bordering on reprobate [but] also a tremendous amount of fun.”
Pulling off such a satirical feat once was hard enough, and it seemed unlikely that the movie’s director, Matthew Vaughn, could manage it a second time. He doesn’t—quite. But Vaughn’s new sequel, Kingsman: The Golden Circle, while not as fresh as its predecessor, is nonetheless better than one might expect: a goofier, more over-the-top treatment of a premise that was pretty goofy and over-the-top the first time around.
Tea and Testosterone: The Rip-Roaring Appeal of Kingsman
Kingsman, you see, is the name of a discreet and oh-so-very-British private intelligence service. (Its headquarters is accessed by way of a luxury tailor on Savile Row.) In the first film we watched the impeccably dressed, umbrella-wielding superspy Harry Hart (Colin Firth) take a young hooligan nicknamed “Eggsy” (Taron Egerton) under his wing and make him into a Kingsman—essentially a killing machine in vest and tie. Alas, before the final reel, Harry himself was shot dead.
Or was he? The trailers for The Golden Circle have not been coy on this point, so I won’t be either. Within the first 15 minutes of the movie, Harry is revealed to have survived, even if he’s dealing with a certain degree of amnesia. (In related news: Finally, Warner Bros! As if anyone ever believed Superman wouldn’t be brought back to life for Justice League.)
But if Harry is still kicking, the same soon cannot be said of most of his fellow Kingsmen. Early in The Golden Circle, their HQ is blown to smithereens, leaving only Eggsy and support staffer “Merlin” (Mark Strong) in one piece. (A post-Hogwarts Michael Gambon gets to play “Arthur,” the head of Kingsman, for mere seconds before meeting his maker.) So Eggsy and Merlin crack open the organization’s only-in-case-of-supreme-emergency safe and discover ... a bottle of bourbon? About the time they reach the bottom of it, they recognize it to be a clue and make their way to the Kentucky distillery whence it came. (Aficionados will recall that Kentucky was also the location of the bigot-filled church in the first movie, and thus appears to be the franchise’s stand-in for America as a whole.)
When they arrive at the distillery, Eggsy and Merlin discover a parallel American agency, Statesman, founded at the same time as their own. Replace Kingsman’s bespoke suits with cowboy-wear, their Arthurian codenames with ones based on varying types of liquor, and—well, you get the idea. It’s worth noting here that, although Channing Tatum (“Tequila”) and Jeff Bridges (“Champagne,” or more colloquially, “Champ”) feature prominently as Statesmen in the film’s trailers and other marketing, their roles aren’t much more than cameos. More notable among Kingsman’s “American cousins” are Pedro Pascal (who was marvelous as Oberyn Martell in Game of Thrones) as “Whiskey” and Halle Barry as support agent “Ginger Ale.”
Once again, a capitalist villain has launched a plan for global genocide transmitted by means of an addictive consumer product; this time, though, it’s drugs rather than smart phones. The villain in question is Poppy Adams (Julianne Moore), a vice merchant who has outfitted her jungle lair like a faux 1950s diner—Dr. No by way of Johnny Rockets.
The story proceeds from there pretty much as one might expect. Kingsmen and Statesmen unite to tackle the Poppy problem, double crosses ensue, and numerous action sequences take place that are cleverly choreographed, comically violent, and spatially impossible without abundant CGI assistance. Heroes and villains alike deploy the kinds of gadgets that the Bond franchise grew appropriately embarrassed about long ago—cars with machine guns, cars that turn into subs, robot arms, robot dogs—and there are gags concerning John Denver and the war on drugs. We witness the eating of an exceptionally revolting hamburger and the placement of a diabolically naughty tracking device.
The returning cast is solid, but while Firth and Egerton don’t have quite the twinkle they showed in the previous outing, Strong throws himself fully into Merlin’s delightful brogue. Moore shows off her comic chops as the Happy Daysified supervillain, and Pascal is a charismatic onscreen presence even if his Texan accent occasionally falters.
Which brings me to the extended cameo by a generationally famous pop icon playing himself—I won’t say whom—which begins relatively understated but becomes considerably more gonzo as it progresses. Is it a rather cheap and cheesy bid for audience amusement? Of course it is. But it is nonetheless an effective one.
That is, in fact, a reasonable summary of The Golden Circle overall. Whereas the first Kingsman was a relatively focused spoof of the Bond genre, the sequel goes farther afield for its humor. (There is, after all, no real history of American cowboy-spy movies for Statesman to parody.) The movie is too long, too violent, too silly—too everything. Yet for those who enjoyed the original Kingsman, it is a more than adequate second act. To put it another way: first time satire, second time farce.


“In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit.” So began the legendarium that dominated a genre, changed Western literature and the field of linguistics, created a tapestry of characters and mythology that endured four generations, built an anti-war ethos that endured a World War and a Cold War, and spawned a multibillion-dollar media franchise. J.R.R. Tolkien’s work is probably best remembered today by the sword-and-sandal epic scale of The Lord of The Rings films, but it started in the quiet, fictionalized English countryside of the Shire. It started, 80 years ago in a hobbit-hole, with Bilbo Baggins.
Although Tolkien created the complicated cosmological sprawl of The Silmarillion and stories like the incestuous saga of Túrin Turambar told in The Children of Húrin, Middle-earth itself is mostly remembered today as something akin to little Bilbo in his Hobbit-hole: quaint, virtuous, and tidy. Nowadays, George R.R. Martin’s got the market cornered on heavily initialed fantasy writers, and his hand guides the field. High and epic fantasy are often expected to dip heavily into the medieval muck of realism, to contain heavy doses of sex and curses, gore and grime, sickness and believable motives and set pieces. Characters like Martin’s mercenary Bronn of the Blackwater are expected to say “fuck.” Modern stories, even when set in lands like A Song of Ice and Fire’s Essos that are filled with competing faiths, tend toward the nihilist, and mostly atheist. Heavenly beings are denuded of potency and purity; while the gods may not be dead, divinity certainly is.
Modern fantasy and its subgenres, as represented in Martin’s work, might be positioned as anti-art in relation to Tolkien. In that way, Tolkien still dominates. While the watchword of the day is subversion—twisting tropes, destroying moral absolutes with relativism, and making mockeries of gallantry and heroism—subversion still requires a substrate. So although fantasy creators in all media have devoted most of their energies in the past eight decades to digesting Tolkien, so in turn Tolkien has become part of the fabric of their works. There’s a little Bilbo in Tyrion, a bit of Smaug in Eragon’s dragons, a dash of Aragorn in Shannara’s Shea Ohmsford, and a touch of Gandalf in the wizards of Discworld.
That’s why, on this week’s anniversary of the publication of The Hobbit and of the entrance of Tolkien into the fantasy genre, it’s important to reread and reconsider his works, and his first especially. Although the short and whimsical book is considered lightweight compared to The Lord of the Rings trilogy, it’s still in many ways the best that literature has to offer. Tolkien is first a linguist, and it’s not only his creation of elvish, dwarvish, and orcish languages out of whole cloth that impresses, but also the way he toys with English and illustrates the power of language itself to create. Ever a good author surrogate, Bilbo’s true arms and armor aren’t his trusty half-sword Sting or his mithril shirt, but—as Gollum would find out—his words and riddles. As Bilbo tells Smaug, the dragon:
I come from under the hill, and under the hills and over the hills my paths led. And through the air. I am he that walks unseen. … I am the clue-finder, the web-cutter, the stinging fly. I was chosen for the lucky number. … I am he that buries his friends alive and drowns them and draws them alive again from the water.
Bilbo’s warrior-poetry is big and boastful enough to go toe-to-toe with Muhammad Ali.
The hobbit’s journey from the comforts of the Shire through the mysterious dwarven ruins in the bowels of mountains and to the lair of a treasure-hoarding dragon double as a Bildungsroman, not only for the protagonist but for Tolkien as well. In the climax of the book, when the hero despairs at the greed and collapse of diplomacy that leads to the pointless Battle of Five Armies, so is revealed Tolkien’s hatred of war. His own experiences as a soldier in the trenches of World War I gave him a worldview that blended an old-world genteel Christian Englishness with an acid skepticism of power that wouldn’t become mainstream in American audiences until 40 years later during the Vietnam War.
The internal and external quests of The Hobbit are perhaps especially important today. In a time when young men in particular seem disaffected, unmoored, prone to violence and radicalization, and are dying at accelerating rates from “deaths of despair”—suicides and overdoses, mostly—the central lessons of the book aren’t found in the fantastic elements, on the backs of Eagles, or in the scope of Tolkien’s maps. Rather, the important lessons are found in the development of Bilbo and his dwarf companions Thorin, Balin, Fíli, and Kíli: the dignity of humanity, the virtue of generosity, a respect for life, a duty to do good, and the ways in which brotherhood can be used to move men toward those ideals. In a world today where nuclear doom—for which The Ring can be read as a metaphor—hangs over every country, where efforts to work for common good seem to crumble, and where inequality and hegemony seem likely to persist in perpetuity, perhaps those quaint values are more crucial now than ever.
Some things in The Hobbit and The Lord of The Rings trilogy can be left behind. The world of Middle-earth betrays forms of paternalism, imperialism, and racial essentialism that have no use today. But other elements that are now often derided—like Gandalf’s tendency to act as a demi-deus ex machina and the books’ belief that good always prevails—are actually paramount to the works’ legacy. The true ethos of a nihilistic society, where bad-news fatigue and eroding faith in truth and in human institutions are enduring enough to create a durable meme out of the “This is fine” dog, might be a desperate need to seek assurance that things might actually turn out fine. And the overwhelming lesson of The Hobbit’s time “between the Dawn of Færie and the Dominion of Men” is that things might not turn out fine, but that people can become whole through the effort of making them so.


“Pain without a cause is pain we can’t trust,” the author Leslie Jamison wrote in 2014. “We assume it’s been chosen or fabricated.”
Jamison’s essay “Grand Unified Theory of Female Pain” unpacked the suffering-woman archetype, which encompasses literature’s broken hearts (Anna Karenina, Miss Havisham) and society’s sad girls—the depressed, the anorexic, and in the 19th century, the tubercular. Wariness about being defined by suffering, she argued, had led many modern women to adopt a new pose. She wrote, “The post-​wounded woman conducts herself as if preempting certain accusations: Don’t cry too loud; don’t play victim.” Jamison questioned whether this was an overcorrection. “The possibility of fetishizing pain is no reason to stop representing it,” she wrote. “Pain that gets performed is still pain.”
How Beyoncé and Kanye Made Marriage Cool Again
Jamison’s work might come to mind when watching Lady Gaga’s new documentary, Gaga: Five Foot Two, or when reading about the singer postponing her European tour. The pop star this month informed the world that she suffers from fibromyalgia, which causes chronic muscle pain. In the documentary, she visits the doctor, she curls up on a couch, she cries in agony. On Instagram, she prays while holding a rosary. The caption is a lengthy apology to her fans for having to postpone upcoming performances due to her condition.
While forthright, Gaga’s statements about her struggle have been somewhat couched in embarrassment—and the public has responded with both sympathy and skepticism. “I use the word ‘suffer’ not for pity, or attention, and have been disappointed to see people online suggest that I’m being dramatic, making this up, or playing the victim to get out of touring,” she wrote. It’s not the first time she’s been doubted or criticized about something that her body has gone through. When hip surgery made her cancel her 2013 tour, some folks accused her of faking her injury because of underwhelming ticket sales.
In many ways, this skepticism is deeply familiar. It is a documented fact that women tend to report more pain than men—but also that their pain is seen as less credible, with women less likely to be given strong pain relievers, facing inordinately long wait times to be treated, and likely to be told that their problems are mental or emotional rather than physical. It’s not hard to draw a line from the presumptions underlying that inequality to the gendered way that literature and music about suffering is often classified. It’s also easy to see how such attitudes give rise to the “post-wounded” affect Jamison writes about.
This bias is, in fact, so familiar that there are scripts that a plugged-in, empathetic person might use to respond to Gaga. “Believe women,” goes the mantra of campaigns to curb sexual assault. “Believe the patient,” counsels medical literature on the topic of pain. But Gaga’s situation presents another test of compassion and trust. Believe the pop star? Who’d be so gullible as to do that?
* * *
Of all the celebrities to face a medical trial in public, Gaga would seem a particularly complex one. She rose to stardom for celebrating the artifice of fame: for leaning into the fabulous possibilities of forgetting the self, for bypassing “realness” in glimmering studio pastiches. Authenticity, fixed identity, and even the limitations of the human body were, explicitly, jokes in her universe. You needed not know Gaga the person.
But Gaga has spent the past three years deconstructing her previous project, which is its own kind of performance. Elaborate dance pop ceded ground to jazz standards, showtunes, and country rock. Tentacle gowns went into the closet; jeans and a pink cowboy hat came out. The director Chris Moukarbel shot Five Foot Two largely on handheld—maybe even smartphone—cameras. You see Gaga cooking, recording, planning, crying, bonding. In one scene, she’s topless as she chats with her team by the poolside. The implication: This is Gaga, au naturel. Yet she never seems to forget the camera.
Five Foot Two documents last year’s release of her album Joanne, and makes clear how much Gaga’s public reboot relied on demonstrating that she, like everyone else, suffers. Gaga has increasingly mined the traumas of her own life, with songs and philanthropic efforts growing out of her rape at age 19. The dissolution of her engagement to the actor Taylor Kinney, mournfully referenced a few times in the documentary, seemed to inform the breakup-themed Joanne singles “Perfect Illusion” and “Million Reasons.”
But there was a deeper source of anguish on Joanne, too. The album is named for her aunt, an aspiring artist who died of lupus at age 19 in 1974. “Seeing what that did to [my father] and my family was the most powerful thing I experienced growing up,” Gaga tells the journalist Darryl Pinckney in the film. “I am Joanne. I am my father’s daughter. That is what this record is about.”
The most memorable scene of the documentary comes when she first plays the album’s delicate, acoustic title track for her grandmother, Joanne’s mom. The moment verges on uncomfortable, and not only because Gaga’s father, Joanne’s brother, gets up and leaves the room in apparent distress midway through. Gaga herself seems hungry to have her telling of an ordeal she did not personally experience validated by those who did. “Did I get it right?” she asks her grandmother, mid-hug. “Yes you did,” her grandmother responds. But she has a warning for Gaga, too: “Don’t become maudlin over all this.”
It’s never explicitly stated, but Gaga seems to connect to Joanne’s story in part because of her own medical situation. Iconography about hospitals and crutches and wheelchairs over the years hinted that the seemingly bionic pop star faced problems of the flesh off-stage. In 2010, she told Larry King she tested “borderline positive” for lupus. She’s still feeling the effects of the injury she sustained in 2013, as seen in a Five Foot Two moment when she pauses rehearsals for her Super Bowl halftime show because of hip tightness. Fibromyalgia appears to make that problem worse, and being a pop star in chronic pain certainly doesn’t seem easy. One scene shows her having her makeup done for a performance while sitting in a doctor’s examination room.
Gaga’s particular ailment is an almost-literal rendering of Jamison’s “pain without a cause”—which is, as she notes, “pain which can’t be trusted.” A poorly understood but widespread disorder that seems to inordinately affect women, fibromyalgia is sometimes assumed to be psychosomatic. “Drug Approved. Is Disease Real?” read a 2008 New York Times headline about the first FDA-sanctioned drug to treat it. Gaga has said that she wants to help raise awareness and research dollars. During one excruciating flare-up shown in Five Foot Two, she sympathizes with less-privileged sufferers of the disorder: “Like, I don’t know what I’d fuckin’ do if I didn’t have everybody here to help me.”
A few moments later, she’s looking straight into the camera. “Do I look pathetic?” she asks, tear-streaked, lying on a couch, a therapist massaging her. “I’m so embarrassed.” It’s a powerful moment because the stigma of pain is clearly part of the pain itself. But it’s also aesthetically striking. To answer Gaga’s question, she actually looks like she did in parts of the “Bad Romance” video—crying, stripped down, and oddly luminous. It’s a sign of fame’s power on the viewer: Whatever lengths she might go to put person over persona, the persona remains.
* * *
Pop music has firmly moved on from the phase of gleeful, Technicolor artifice that Gaga stood for at her peak. Contemporaries in wildness like Kesha and Miley Cyrus have done much what Gaga has done and traded Alexander McQueen creations for cowboy boots. They have also made a diaristic turn, harmonizing their music with their angsty, tabloid sagas.
Usually this means trading on the spectacle of suffering to sell pop’s ultimate commodity—inspiration. Beyoncé’s Lemonade is the signal example, taking the sting of infidelity to spin a tale of hurt and overcoming. Kesha’s alleged abuse by her mentor and producer Dr. Luke was addressed and transcended on this year’s Rainbow. Katy Perry marketed her latest album with an on-camera therapy session in which she cried about her “real” self wanting to be known. Taylor Swift seems on the verge of unveiling a more acidic survival story.
“Victim to victory” songs are always in fashion, but the latest boom relies, more than pop usually does, on the feeling of authenticity. Adult listeners of drive-time radio typically know they’re in the realm of fantasy and commerce, yet fully enjoying the confessional-pop performance means buying into the non-musical narratives surrounding them. Beyoncé rolled her own child and husband into the Lemonade visual experience. “I write this shit, baby,” Kesha insisted on a recent single. You’re explicitly asked to believe that the gap between performer and person is negligible.
Joanne already fit into this triumphant-confessional class, with Gaga singing about family members and friends by name and roaring, “I might not be flawless but you know I’ve got a diamond heart.” The meta-text, all along, was Gaga’s own career arc—a sense that she’d come down from the heights she’d reached from 2008 to 2013, stumbled with her third album, and might never recover. Glimmers of past traumas and family tragedy contributed to the pathos. Her medical troubles would seem to retroactively add in a new layer, though it’s unclear when she received her fibromyalgia diagnosis, and little on the album can be heard as an explicit reference to illness. Certainly the lyrics about healing through love on her post-Joanne single, “The Cure,” now seem a lot less generic.

Susan Sontag’s 1976 essay “Illness as Metaphor” warned against real physical sickness becoming reduced, in the cultural consciousness, to symbols of strength and weakness, nobility and sin. “My point is that illness is not a metaphor, and that the most truthful way of regarding illness—and the healthiest way of being ill—is one most purified of, most resistant to, metaphoric thinking,” the critic wrote. Yet pop musicians, by trade, render the entire world in metaphor. One love story is everyone’s; the smallest triumph stands in for the largest and vice versa.
Thus far, though, Gaga has mostly communicated about her illness in straightforward terms: footage showing her in pain and statements saying she simply, practically, cannot perform. It’s left up to the public to connect Gaga’s Joanne-era theme of vulnerability with her real-life medical saga. But perhaps that connection is better off undrawn: Gaga’s current struggle is just a struggle, not a statement about the human condition or about the singer’s own career. Inevitably, some will question her suffering—because she’s a woman, because of the nature of her sickness, and because of her job as a performer. But pain performed, as Jamison wrote, is still pain. And for now, Gaga is asking not for applause but understanding.


The most significant conflict in Battle of the Sexes isn’t the much hyped exhibition tennis game between the legendary athletes Bobby Riggs (Steve Carell) and Billie Jean King (Emma Stone)—the real-life 1973 match that’s the ostensible subject of Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris’s new film. More gripping is the struggle that plays out in the background of the famous match, one that built the foundation of the modern sport. In the first half of the movie, King organizes a boycott of a major tennis tournament over the disparity in prize money between men and women, and helps found the Virginia Slims Circuit, a series of tennis tournaments that eventually became the Women’s Tennis Association, a principal organizing body of the sport.
As played by Stone, King is somewhat mousy and shy in private, and even-handed and friendly in public. So, of course, she’s tarred as a radical by old boys of the sport like Jack Kramer (Bill Pullman), the organizer of the tournament she pulls out of. King’s supposed extremism amounted to arguing for equal prize money for female players and a union to help support their profession. The outsized reaction her effort received is the most fascinating part of Battle of the Sexes, a crowd-pleasing, middle-of-the-road piece of cinema that’s nonetheless frighteningly relevant today.
How This Year's Oscar Contenders Are Tackling Trump
Battle of the Sexes is directed with all the verve of a TV movie. It depicts tennis as little more than a job for King and a lark for Riggs, a retired legend of the sport who is now touring the oldies circuit to try and cover his gambling debts. That’s perfectly fitting, however, for a film covering a sporting event that was about much more than pure athleticism. Riggs vs. King was a sideshow blown up to national proportions by Riggs’s skill for advertising his own brand of chauvinism, which he inflated to cartoonish proportions to get himself back in the news and eventually lure King onto the court.
As King notes before their showdown, Riggs is largely just putting on a show for the cameras—but his public supporters, including Kramer, bought into his argument that men were inherently superior athletes and deserving of more prize money. Battle of the Sexes might be about a seemingly innocuous publicity stunt, but it was a stunt that became symbolic of a generational war over gender roles. King was no longer one athlete, but a standard-bearer for the very concept of feminism, and the battle she had to fight was not the one she was trying to draw attention to.
It’s not hard to connect the dots to the present day, especially when considering Riggs’s particular Trumpian brand of showmanship. But there’s little malevolence to Carell, who plays Riggs as a mostly harmless buffoon, a lovable cad spouting canned lines about women belonging in the kitchen. His half of the movie, as a result, feels pretty airless and slow—there aren’t many compelling stakes to his publicity ploy outside of his gambling addiction, which is presented with the same easy-breezy tone as everything else. Riggs shouldn’t be someone viewers take super-seriously, but as a competitive foil, he isn’t much to root against either.
King’s half is much more interesting, and Stone’s performance is surprisingly thoughtful and internal—less of a broad impression than Carell’s. The early chunk of the film, which follows King’s organization of the pioneering Virginia Slims Tour alongside the famed publisher Gladys Heldman (Sarah Silverman), is engaging, as is the material focusing on her burgeoning relationship with her hairdresser Marilyn Barnett (Andrea Riseborough). Dayton and Faris handle King’s first lesbian relationship with far more nuance and care than the main storyline, which often feels like little more than a loose summary leading up to an inevitable conclusion—the big ’73 match at the Houston Astrodome.
Riseborough is extremely winning as Barnett, a freer spirit than the relatively buttoned-down King, and her chemistry with Stone is effortlessly tender, even as their relationship threatens to spill into the public eye and endanger King’s marriage. Much like the story of the Virginia Slims Tour, King and Barnett’s romance almost feels like it could carry its own movie; and as a subplot, it’s far more enthralling than scenes of Carell palling around with his tennis buddies and causing a ruckus at a Gamblers Anonymous meeting.
But even though the subplots about King’s life generate the best drama, the film is ploddingly building to a much simpler (and less interesting) showdown: the “battle of the sexes” itself. Dayton and Faris first depict Riggs’s May 1973 match against King’s rival Margaret Court (Jessica McNamee), a thorough victory for Riggs that prompts King to finally accept his challenge to try and shut him up. I won’t spoil the outcome of the Riggs-King match (though a quick Google search would certainly do that for you), but there isn’t much suspense to the script, written by the Oscar-winner Simon Beaufoy (The Full Monty, Slumdog Millionaire). The battle’s been waged throughout the movie, on many fronts, and it’s clear what side the storytellers are rooting for.


When introducing his new movie The Shape of Water at the Toronto International Film Festival last week, the director Guillermo del Toro was clear about the message he wanted to convey. The Shape of Water is a romantic, grown-up fairytale, where a mute woman (Sally Hawkins) working at a secret government facility in 1962 falls in love with a sea creature (Doug Jones) that’s being held there against its will. It’s a story of empathy triumphing over prejudice, one where the facility’s villainous supervisor (Michael Shannon) is largely driven by hatred of what he doesn’t understand.
Veep's Showrunner on Clinton, Trump, and Insulting Jonah
“It’s super easy to sound smart when you’re a cynic,” del Toro said of the movie. “And I just thought, can we listen to The Beatles and Jesus, and sound smart when we talk about love?” Such a statement might sound trite, but it’s the bedrock of the film’s storytelling. When discussing The Shape of Water, del Toro (who is Mexican) has been equally upfront about how its sea creature is a stand-in for “the other,” or the outsider, in any kind of political situation. As this year’s Oscar race kicks off, del Toro’s movie is resonating—it won the Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival. It’s also part of a larger trend in political and allegorical mainstream filmmaking, where directors are plainly and loudly tackling the Trump administration, some with more grace than others.
The Toronto International Film Festival, which ended Sunday, has long been a proving ground for Oscar buzz, a preview of the next few months in cinema where movies either begin to build critical momentum for a major awards campaign or wither on the vine. This year, a sizable chunk of the festival’s biggest hits have a few key things in common—they’re coming out in the first full year of the Trump administration, they’re deeply topical despite many of them being period pieces covering unfortunate historical events, and they have all the subtlety of a sledgehammer.
The Shape of Water is an excellent film because it functions as both a parable and a delightful genre work that’s by turns rollicking fun and soaringly emotional. Del Toro has taken this storytelling approach in the past, particularly with his Spanish-language movies set in the shadow of the Spanish Civil War (The Devil’s Backbone and Pan’s Labyrinth). But The Shape of Water is more directly applicable to the current debate raging over the White House’s hardline immigration policies and the emergence of the alt-right.
Del Toro hasn’t shied away from that interpretation, saying of Shannon’s villain, “He doesn’t see anyone because his arrogance is so big. ... It speaks about the issue we have today that choosing fear over love is a disaster.” When asked about the current political climate, he said, “It’s like a cancer. We have a tumor now. That doesn’t mean the cancer started with that tumor. It was gestating for so long.” In dramatizing America’s idealized past in The Shape of Water, del Toro tries to get at the root of problems in the present. The film takes place in the ’60s, when the country is a forward-looking superpower, but the story is set largely within a darker underbelly. “If you were white, Anglo-Saxon, and Protestant, it was a great time to be alive,” del Toro said of that decade. “If you were not, if you were anything else, it was not.”
The allegory of American rot in The Shape of Water is mythic, but other Toronto hits were more obvious in their political parallels. Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris’s Battle of the Sexes, a recounting of the famous 1973 exhibition tennis game between Billie Jean King (Emma Stone) and Bobby Riggs (Steve Carell), all but invites viewers to map it onto the 2016 election. Riggs is a loudmouthed, if brazenly charismatic, performer who gets TV publicity by barking misogynistic opinions about women. King is unfairly burdened by the mantle of her sex, as her showdown with Riggs is billed as a winner-take-all war between Riggs’s outmoded values and the feminist movement. Dayton and Faris’s film is a gentle crowd-pleaser, but it would have seemed broader and more dated if it were released just a couple years earlier, before the Trump-Clinton race.
Joe Wright’s Darkest Hour, a biopic of Winston Churchill’s (Gary Oldman, assured of an Oscar win next year) first month in office as prime minister amid the Dunkirk evacuation in 1940, would have felt similarly passé not long ago. The film centers on Churchill’s boisterous resistance to the invading German armies, and the disquiet that provokes within his party, which still has a substantial contingent hoping to sue for peace. Wright and the screenwriter Anthony McCarten turn that ideological fight into a swooning parable of courage in one’s convictions and the necessity of standing up to extremism rather than trying to meet it halfway—a seemingly simple message that’s delivered with old-fashioned, stiff-upper-lip panache.
Other TIFF films focused on times in American politics that were similarly fraught, even if their contemporary resonance is less clear. Peter Landesman’s Mark Felt: The Man Who Brought Down the White House is a biopic about the FBI lifer who became “Deep Throat,” the journalist Bob Woodward’s source on the Watergate scandal. As written and directed by Landesman (a former journalist who has written for The Atlantic), the movie has the same blunt competence of his last film, Concussion, and sees Liam Neeson playing Felt as a warrior for political sanity in an age of back-stabbing chaos. Unfortunately, the movie misses some of the deeper complexity of the internecine wars between various government agencies at the time.
There’s also Chappaquiddick, a retelling of the 1969 car accident that almost ended the political career of Senator Ted Kennedy (Jason Clarke) and resulted in the death of his brother’s former campaign worker Mary Jo Kopechne (Kate Mara). That film, directed by John Curran, is much more narrowly invested in the double-edged mythos of the Kennedy family and is impressive mostly for how bitterly it portrays its subject, considering his eventual bounce-back. But given the many current scandals and distrust in government, any story touching on relevant tales from the past should find purchase with studios seeking Oscar gold.
There are films looking to take on the harder task of examining American race relations in more specific ways than The Shape of Water’s depiction of “the other.” Dee Rees’s terrific Mudbound, which has been acquired by Netflix, follows a white family and a black family in post–Civil War Mississippi, digging into the ways their dynamics have and haven’t changed since the conflict. But that movie (based on a novel by Hillary Jordan) succeeds because it’s character-driven, spending time on the backstories of each member of its ensemble and building slowly, and carefully, to its tragic outcome.
George Clooney’s Suburbicon, which had a rocky debut at TIFF, tries a more forthright approach, marrying a script about suburban crime shenanigans written by the Coen brothers in the 1980s with a real-life story. Clooney and his co-writer Grant Heslov took the Coens’ script and added a subplot based on the case of the African American Myers family, who moved into the Pennsylvania suburb of Levittown and were subjected to months of racially motivated torment by their white neighbors who wanted to drive them out. In joining the two ideas, Clooney seems to be trying to make a point about the ignorance and sublimated evil of the white couple (played by Matt Damon and Julianne Moore) at the center of the darkly comedic main plot. But since the two storylines never interact, and the actors playing the Myers family aren’t given much screen time, the juxtaposition feels bizarre, as does the uplifting note Clooney decides to end things on.
In talking about the movie, Clooney admitted he made story changes after Trump was elected (in the middle of Suburbicon’s production). “It changed the temperature on the film a little bit. ...  The goofy seemed too goofy,” he told me. “It was really written as a piece to talk about the idea that there’s a group of white Americans who are terrified that they’re losing their place in society and are blaming minorities for it.” Clooney’s intentions might have been noble, but Suburbicon was poorly received—it’ll be best remembered as an early reaction to a political moment that’s far from over. But when I spoke with him, Clooney did hit upon something that’s true about every wildly topical era in Hollywood: Movies succeed not when they’re didactic, but when they manage to reflect or capture a larger national mood.
“I don’t think films can tell people what to think, and I don’t think films can lead anything [politically] because it just takes too long to make them,” Clooney said. “What films can do is they can point to a moment in time in your history and tell you what you were thinking.” In the ’60s, Hollywood made films about nuclear paranoia and the end of the world; in the ’70s, it churned out cynical dramas about the nation’s growing distrust in government and rejection of societal norms. Now, viewers are seeing a wave of mainstream cinema that’s trying to find the right language for empathy and political resistance. As Clooney noted, movies can tell the country what it’s thinking, and this year’s Oscar crop is just the start of that effort.


“By the way, before you post a nasty Facebook message saying I’m politicizing my son’s health problems, I want you to know: I am politicizing my son’s health problems.”   
That was Jimmy Kimmel on Tuesday evening, in a monologue reacting to the introduction of Graham-Cassidy, the (latest) bill that seeks to replace the Affordable Care Act. Kimmel had talked about health care on his show before, in May—when, after his newborn son had undergone open-heart surgery to repair the damage of a congenital heart defect, he delivered a tearfully personal monologue sharing the experience of going through that—and acknowledging that he and his family were lucky: They could afford the surgery, whatever it might cost. Kimmel concluded his speech by, yes, politicizing his son’s health problems: He emphasized how important it is for lower- and middle-class families to have comprehensive insurance coverage, with protections for people with preexisting conditions. “No parent,” he said, speaking through tears, “should ever have to decide if they can afford to save their child’s life. It shouldn’t happen.”
The monologue went viral—it was a speech that “will surely be a big part of his late-night legacy,” my colleague David Sims noted at the time—and one of the people who saw it was Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana. The politician, a physician by trade, soon began talking about the need for an Obamacare replacement that would pass the “Jimmy Kimmel test.” Cassidy appeared on Jimmy Kimmel Live!, sound-biting the same message. Cassidy assured Kimmel—and, per the transitive property of late-night television, the American public—that he would work to create a new health-care bill that would pass that test.
The bill Cassidy ended up co-authoring with Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, which the two introduced earlier this month—a bill that, in the frenzied fashion becoming so common with such things, may be voted on next week—does not pass the test.
And so, on Tuesday, Jimmy Kimmel yet again politicized his son’s health problems. This time not with tears, but with anger.

“I don’t know what happened to Bill Cassidy,” Kimmel told his audience. “But when he was on this publicity tour, he listed his demands for a health-care bill very clearly. These were his words. He said he wants coverage for all, no discrimination based on preexisting conditions, lower premiums for middle-class families, and no lifetime caps.”
Kimmel paused. “Guess what? The new bill does none of those things.”
The bill does pass Cassidy’s “Jimmy Kimmel test,” the host allowed—but a different Kimmel test. “With this one, your child with a preexisting condition will get the care he needs—if, and only if, his father is Jimmy Kimmel. Otherwise, you might be screwed.”
It was a notable shift. The power of Kimmel’s earlier speech on health care was not just the pathos of its story, but also its ability to make the political personal: to drive home the idea that, while “health care” might seem academic and theoretical, it can, in an instant, become intensely personal, with stakes no less than life or death. Kimmel, this time around, took that same logic—the political, made personal—but applied it to a single person: Bill Cassidy.
“This is not my area of expertise,” Kimmel said. “My area of expertise is eating pizza, and that’s really about it. But we can’t let him do this to our children, and our senior citizens, and our veterans, or to any of us,” Kimmel told his audience.
We can’t let him. We can’t let him.
And then Kimmel zoomed out, extending his anger to Cassidy’s colleagues. “Health care is complicated,” Kimmel noted. “It’s boring. I don’t want to talk about it. The details are confusing. And that’s what these guys are relying on. They’re counting on you to be so overwhelmed with all the information, you just trust them to take care of you. But they’re not taking care of you. They’re taking care of the people who give them money. Like insurance companies.”
They. They. They.
Kimmel is a host who once boasted that an episode of his show would be “Trump-free”—and who once announced that “if anyone says the name of the orange-colored man with the Russian boyfriend, they will have to put $100 in that jar that Guillermo is holding right there.” Now, though, the politics have knocked on his own door, at his own home, for his own son. And he is rising to meet them—another late-night host who is embracing the idea that politics and entertainment are, at this moment in America, tightly tangled together. On Tuesday, at the end of his monologue, Kimmel listed the medical interest groups that have opposed Graham-Cassidy. He shared a number that viewers can call to tell their representatives that they oppose the bill. He took for granted that anger can be its own political force.
“There’s a new Jimmy Kimmel test for you,” Kimmel told Cassidy: “It’s called the lie detector test. You’re welcome to stop by the studio and take it anytime.”


This story contains spoilers through the whole first season of The Good Place.
The moment The Good Place transformed from genially quirky sitcom to malevolently brilliant work of art came at the end of the first season, when Eleanor (Kristen Bell) finally twigged that something was extremely wrong with heaven. After dying in the first episode and being welcomed by an angel named Michael (Ted Danson) to a sterilized, fro-yo friendly paradise, Eleanor spent the series trying to earn her spot in The Good Place, since a clerical error seemed to have sent her there by accident. But observing how efficiently the afterlife emotionally tortured Eleanor and her three new friends, she concluded that it was actually The Bad Place, a.k.a. hell. With that, Michael’s gentle expression twisted into a diabolical grin, revealing the monster he’d been all along.
Not since a journalist morphed into Al Pacino in The Devil’s Advocate has a metamorphosis been so jarring. Of course, there were clues: Michael kicked a puppy in the very second episode, and no self-respecting Elysium so closely resembles a chichi outdoor mall in Pasadena. But Eleanor wasn’t the only target. We, the audience, had been fooled into thinking The Good Place was just a zany comedy about a drunken pharmaceutical rep who lucks her way into heaven, but really it was a much craftier and more complex beast, using food puns and toilet humor to disguise a show that was deeply interested in the moral philosophy of existence. When Eleanor scribbled a note to herself to “find Chidi,” her “soulmate” (William Jackson Harper) who actually ended up being her soulmate, she wrote it on a page ripped from T.M. Scanlon’s What We Owe to Each Other, a 1998 treatise that considers the duty humans have to be good to one another.
The Otherworldly Genius of The Good Place
The brilliance of the twist was that it upended everything viewers thought they knew about the show while also making perfect sense. Where could a second season go from there? Judging by the first four episodes, two of which air on Wednesday night before the show returns to a normal Thursday schedule, The Good Place’s showrunner, Michael Schur, has it all figured out. To reveal too much would be to spoil the surprise, but the second series picks up where the first left off, with Eleanor in The Good Place 2.0, her memory wiped, trying to decipher the note she wrote for herself while acclimating to an afterlife that’s just as strange as ever, though tinged with a more palpable darkness.
The most obvious advantage of The Good Place post-reveal is that it allows Danson to play up his devilish side. His fiendish giggle from the finale, rapidly immortalized in GIF form, offered a glimpse of Michael’s potential as a baddie, but he’s not just evil in the new episodes—he’s in trouble. Understandably so, since the (dubious) conceit of The Good Place is that it’s a worthwhile investment to recruit hundreds of demons as actors and construct a huge paradise just to torture four souls who weren’t even that terrible during their time on Earth. (In addition to Eleanor, Michael’s carefully crafted hell-alternative was designed to plague Chidi, a Senegalese ethics professor who can’t make decisions; Tahani (Jameela Jamil), a self-absorbed and shallow philanthropist; and Jason (Manny Jacinto), a moronic DJ and wannabe dancer from Jacksonville.)
The Good Place has always had elements of a workplace comedy, but with Michael intent on finding ways to make his elaborate idea work, the show is now more explicitly akin to The Office and Parks and Recreation (both of which Schur also worked on). Michael gives himself comforting pep talks about confidence before Skype meetings with his boss, a demonic higher-up (Marc Evan Jackson). And he has to negotiate with his disgruntled underlings, most of whom want to go back to their old jobs pulling out fingernails, tossing people into acid pits, and working the old (self-explanatory) penis flattener. There’s a meta element, too, with the demon who played Real Eleanor last season (Tiya Sircar) now unhappy with her new, diminished role (“There’s a great arc coming for Denise the Pizza Lady,” Michael tells her, placatingly.)
Watching the first few episodes, I was concerned that it all seemed too scattered, with Groundhog Day–like repetition that could quickly become wearing. But I wasn’t giving Schur enough credit. There’s a distinct plan in place, one that opens up all kinds of new narrative ground for the show to explore. Along the way, it gets to pursue the most fascinating questions it set up last season. What does moral growth really mean? What if The Good/Bad Place ended up redeeming the four souls it was designed to torture? What if Michael, in trying to devise a hell for others, created a world that ended up tormenting him just as much? And, most intriguingly, what does the real Good Place look like?
These are complex existential questions for a show obsessed with terrible puns (“Knish From a Rose,” “Biscotti Pippen,” and “Beignet and the Jets” are a few of the bakeries in the new, improved Good/Bad Place), one that has space in its universe for something called “butthole spiders.” But that’s the magic of The Good Place: The bad stuff is really what makes it special.


This story contains spoilers throughout for the plot of mother!
Since it was announced, the prime selling point of Darren Aronofsky’s new film mother! has been two-fold: that it stars one of the most famous actresses working today, Jennifer Lawrence, and that the particulars of its plot are an utter mystery. Well, after months of secrecy, the movie hit theaters in wide release last weekend, and audiences are finally getting the chance to puzzle over this bizarre, chaotic work of horror.
Aronofsky’s tale is blunt, fantastical, and obviously laden with symbolism, but for me, the biggest delight about mother! is how many people have shared with me their different takes on the film’s message. My colleague Christopher Orr discussed the movie’s openness to multiple interpretations in his review, noting both the story’s Biblical allusions and its apparent self-referential tone about the difficulty of life as an artist, and how monstrous creators can become. Now that mother! is out, it’s worth dig more deeply into the great debate that’s already emerged over the film’s meaning.
Mother! Is a Stunning, Ferocious Head Trip
The plot of mother! is very simple—at least until it starts getting more unhinged. It begins on a shot of a woman’s crying face in the middle of a vast inferno, after which a man (Javier Bardem) inserts a crystal into a pedestal and magically repairs the burnt home around him. Cut to: an unnamed woman (Jennifer Lawrence) who lives in this gorgeous house in the middle of nowhere with her husband (Bardem). He’s a poet of some renown, busy toiling on his next great work (although he appears to be suffering from writer’s block). She’s devotedly renovating their home, painting the walls and such, and seems to have some mystical power to “feel” the heart of the house, by touching the walls and visualizing a giant, pumping organ.
Soon enough, another man (Ed Harris) shows up, identifying himself as a doctor looking for a place to stay. Bardem (the characters have no names, so it’s easier to identify them by their performers) invites him in and the two rapidly bond, to Lawrence’s discomfort. Harris quickly gets sick, with some unspecified ailment creating a bruise on his side. Then his wife (Michelle Pfeiffer) shows up, unafraid to snipe at Lawrence over the large age gap between her and her husband. Harris, encouraged by Pfeiffer, accidentally breaks Bardem’s crystal, inspiring his rage. The visiting couple’s grown-up kids (Domhnall and Brian Gleeson) then show up and immediately get in a fight, with the elder killing the younger and receiving a scar on his forehead in the struggle. As the family holds a funeral in the house (while Lawrence’s agita only increases), there’s a deluge of water prompted by a guest breaking a fancy sink fixture, which finally drives everyone out for good.
This covers the first half of the film, which, as Orr noted, you could cheekily call a “testament”: one where Bardem is a stand-in for God, Harris and Pfeiffer are Adam (down to his rib injury) and Eve (as much of a temptress as ever), and their kids are Cain and Abel, with the former killing the latter and being “marked” for this primal sin. Bardem’s magic crystal is a violated forbidden fruit, and the burst sink pipes are the flood punishing God’s early followers and wiping the world clean.
When the film’s second act begins, Bardem’s new poetry is complete and Lawrence’s character is pregnant. By the end, her baby (likely some sort of stand-in for Christ’s body) has been eaten alive by a crazed mob of Bardem’s followers. They initially burst into the house as fans of his work but devolve into violence and surreal scenes of warfare, ravaging the house before Lawrence burns it down in a fit of grief at the loss of her child. As she dies cursing her husband, Bardem asks for her love, and she assents. It comes in the form of her heart, which he pulls out of her chest and turns into a crystal that he then uses to rebuild the house again, creating a new bride, played by a new actress.
It’s wild stuff—but the Bible allegory only goes so far, even if Aronofsky himself hinted at it when introducing mother! at the Toronto International Film Festival (he referred to Harris’s character as “the man,” then added, “that’s a clue”). Lawrence’s character has no obvious counterpart in either testament; instead, she’s some sort of analogue for Mother Earth, or Gaia, an embodiment of nature and creation, with the house (which slowly gets destroyed by its callous houseguests) a stand-in for the planet itself. Or you could see her as the warmer, welcoming half of the Godhead, with Bardem representing the aloof, unknowable half. There are vague concepts of reincarnation and renewal in the film’s ending, too, more reflective of Hinduism or Buddhism than anything Judeo-Christian.
The joy of mother!, to me, lies beyond the religious metaphor of God and Adam and Eve and so on; judge it just on that level, and it feels bludgeoning from a storytelling perspective. There’s a lot more to dig into, some of it probably conscious on Aronofsky’s part, some of it not so much. He’s spoken in interviews of the environmental message he’s trying to get across, telling The Hollywood Reporter, “I think [the planet’s] being undone by humanity. I don’t blame one gender over the other gender. I think it is about how people are insatiable, how there’s this endless consumption.”
But, like so many films (especially one with such obvious personal investment on Aronofsky’s part), mother! is clearly also a movie about art and the creative process, one with a rather negative view of the great creator at its center. The brooding Bardem can’t help but hold Lawrence at arm’s length, sometimes storming off to write, other times brushing off her concerns about the invading houseguests (from whom he draws inspiration). Though she loves him, Lawrence can’t help but fixate on the major age difference between them, and after their relationship eventually falls apart, Bardem uses her heart—her inspiration—to build a grand new work and, with it, a new female partner.
Aronofsky is, ironically, now romantically involved with Lawrence, though they met during the filming of mother!, well after he’d written the movie. But of course, such industry romances are hardly unusual, and neither is the idea of artists writing about their own relationships; it’s just fascinating how Aronofsky has turned that dynamic into something grand, destructive, and ultimately horrifying. Lawrence’s character, at times, seems like a parody of the “barefoot and pregnant” stereotype, always padding around the house without any footwear. The actress called this a conscious choice, saying, “It never would have been right for my character to wear shoes. Nature is her creation.”
Whether you loved it or not (I was mixed on its overall quality), mother! is the kind of film that just doesn’t get a wide release in Hollywood—it’s violent, it’s weird, and it’s genuinely trying to baffle viewers and spark debate. It’s exciting to see a big star like Lawrence use her clout to get it made, and even more exciting for a major studio to release it around the country. Though the movie’s opening weekend was pretty weak—an estimated $7.5 million with an “F” CinemaScore (which measures audience satisfaction to try and gauge word-of-mouth), Paramount has stuck up for the film, saying in a statement, “This movie is very audacious and brave ... we don’t want all movies to be safe. And it’s okay if some people don’t like it.”
The studio, essentially, deserves to be lauded for putting out a film so polarizing. Whether viewers love or hate it, they always seem to exit mother! with a strong opinion, which is more than can be said for most Hollywood blockbusters. For a movie that seems deeply unsubtle in its storytelling, mother! is still as mysterious as the misshapen, oblong crystal that Bardem creates his paradise from—different from every angle.


Hulu's The Handmaid's Tale won the Emmy award for Best Drama Series on Sunday night, the first time that a streaming service has snagged the show’s top award.
In many ways, this is a surprising news peg (Hulu?!) for an unsurprising story (the rise of streaming television). Hulu is a distant third behind Netflix and Amazon in the streaming wars, which makes last night’s underdog achievement impressive. But it was only a matter of time before a streaming company took home an award for best series. Netflix has been nominated for top drama or comedy several times—for House of Cards, Orange Is the New Black, Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, and Master of None, and Amazon has earned several nods for Transparent.
Meanwhile, the growth of prestige television on streaming services is part of the long term decline of critical darlings on broadcast television (NBC, ABC, CBS, and Fox). The last broadcast production to win the Emmy for top drama was 24, on Fox, in 2006. While comedies like 30 Rock (NBC) and Modern Family (ABC) have thrived at the Emmy’s in the last decade, HBO's Veep has won the last three awards for best comedy series. Critically acclaimed shows aren’t the only thing in decline on broadcast television. Everything else is, too. Out of 78 prime-time broadcast series that aired in both 2016 and 2017, only one—ABC’s The Bachelor—increased its viewership among people under 50.
So, what exactly is the larger significance of Hulu’s win?
As a first-order effect, one should expect Hulu to spend more money on prestige dramas and other expensive shows. Hulu senior vice president Craig Erwich told New York Magazine that he wanted to use The Handmaid’s Tale—“the most-viewed launch of a show in [Hulu’s] history”—to build the network’s roster of dramas. “If you look at the history of entertainment, often there can be a show that defines a service, but it does not itself make the service,” he said. “Because you have to continue to follow up.”
Hulu’s redoubled attempts to pad their roster will create even more competition in the crowded market for prestige drama, adding to what is already a glut of cinematic television. A superabundance of expensive television shows is good news for streaming networks that are supported by subscriptions, since each new show offers another reason for unconvinced viewers to sign up for the service. But it’s bad news for networks that are supported by advertising, since more shows divided by a stable population means fewer viewers per show. Prestigious awards alone might not cause viewers to cut the cord. But if they contribute to a growing sense that most must-see television is on streaming services, it weakens the pay-TV product and encourages future cord-cutters.
There’s also a notable demographic split: Americans over 65, who broke for Trump by an 8 point margin, are watching more traditional television than ever. Americans under 30, who voted for Clinton by an 18-point margin, have reduced their traditional television viewing time by 50 percent since the Great Recession. And the divide showed at Sunday’s Emmy’s. The show wasn’t just a historic moment for these streaming services. It was also an extended roasting of President Trump, from Stephen Colbert’s monologue, to Sean Spicer’s appearance, to many, many presentations and thank-you speeches that skewered the president. In an age of hyper-polarization, Americans can’t even share television anymore.


When it premiered in the U.K. in August, Peter Kosminsky’s four-part miniseries The State capped a summer that had seen two of the worst terrorist events in recent British history: a bombing at an Ariana Grande concert in Manchester that killed 22 people and wounded 250, and an attack near London Bridge in which eight died and 48 were injured. Both acts were claimed by the Islamic State, the militant group in Iraq and Syria that an estimated 850 British nationals have left home to join. So Kosminsky, the writer and director behind the period piece Wolf Hall and the factual drama The Government Inspector, was wary about how viewers might receive The State, which dramatizes the experience of life inside ISIS for the new British recruits. On the one hand, he’s humanizing people who sign up to commit horrific acts in the name of Islam. On the other, he’s contributing to a media culture that tends to disproportionately portray Muslims as terrorists.
The balancing act required of The State was near-impossible—to create a deeper understanding of the lives of the men and women who join ISIS without either lionizing them or demonizing a whole religion. But the series, which airs in the U.S. on the National Geographic Channel over two nights on Monday and Tuesday, has somehow pulled it off. Kosminsky’s drama is a cautionary tale first and foremost, but one that probes the alienation and nihilism that, he feels, define the majority of extremists. “These are groups of people with a very absolutist attitude to society who want to tear it down and replace it,” he told me recently. “But they’re also looking for a place where they feel they can belong.”
The Best Film About Islamic Terrorists Is a Comedy
The State follows four primary characters, all amalgams based loosely on real people who joined ISIS. Jalal (Sam Otto) and Ziyaad (Ryan McKen) are schoolfriends from London who decide to travel to Syria after Jalal’s older brother is killed fighting there. Shakira (Ony Uhiara) is a young doctor and single mother who hopes to help save the lives of ISIS soldiers, and who brings her 9-year-old, Isaac (Nana Agyeman-Bediako), to the caliphate. Ushna (Shavani Cameron) is a doe-eyed teenager who dreams of being a “lioness” wife to ISIS fighters she mythologizes like boy-banders. At the beginning of the first episode, which sees all four embark on their respective journeys to Syria, Ushna comically navigates her bright pink suitcase through wire fences and over fields to enter ISIS territory.
Kosminsky’s goal in creating the series wasn’t explicitly uncovering how fundamentalism takes root—he explored that subject in 2007’s Britz, which starred Riz Ahmed and Manjinder Virk as British Muslims who end up on different ends of the political spectrum. With The State, he wanted a more thorough sense of what happens once people cross the border, and their conviction runs up against reality. So it’s there that his story really starts, as Shakira and Ushna are taken to one house for female members, and Jalal and Ziyaad to another for men. Kosminsky and his research team spent months poring through public records and interviewing people who’d returned home after traveling to Syria, although he declines to talk about the latter, since they were interviewed on background and occupy precarious legal territory. The characters might be composites, chosen to represent the kinds of people he kept encountering in his research, but the events in the show are all real.
What’s notable in the first episode is that even though there are early signs the four new recruits are headed for disaster, all of them seem delighted by their new home, and by the sense of inclusion they feel. The closing scene, which depicts the male recruits cheering and hugging each other, and the female recruits sitting down together to eat dinner, smiling and laughing, is accompanied by rousing string music. It’s the most provocative moment in the series, simply for how momentarily rosy a portrait it paints of a group Kosminsky describes as a “death cult.” But he felt it was necessary to emphasize the appeal of ISIS to disaffected citizens, most of whom only have a tenuous relationship with Islam. “People contemplating going to Syria are people with no sense of investment in our society,” he said. “They feel very apart from it, and more importantly, they feel a sense of disgust at our society … And they’re looking for a band of brothers or sisters, or a place where they will be welcomed, [where they] don’t feel like they have to hide or make excuses for their faith.”
At a private screening of The State in July, Kosminsky was asked whether he was concerned about humanizing ISIS in the wake of two horrific attacks carried out in its name. “It doesn’t do any service to people who’ve suffered at the hands of ISIS to pretend that all the people who go over there are clinically insane,” he said. His characters are delusional to different extents, but they’re not sadists. And Jalal and Shakira even become audience surrogates as they’re exposed to some of the more horrific practices ISIS engages in: the rape and torture of Yazidi sex slaves and their pre-pubescent daughters, beheadings, the harvesting of organs from captured enemy fighters. Shakira, in one scene, finds her newly indoctrinated son playing football with a human head.
One of the hardest things to comprehend watching The State is what a strong-minded female doctor could see in ISIS that would compel her to endanger both her own and her son’s lives. Uhiara’s performance as Shakira is phenomenal, even more so given she’s often limited to using her eyes, since her character is veiled. But Shakira’s sense of medical ethics, and her commitment to saving lives, seem directly opposed to both the tenets and the practices of ISIS. “What I was trying to do was show a kind of battle between the head and the heart,” Kosminsky said. “In her head, she’s rationalized this. She believes in the concept of the caliphate, a perfect place for Muslims that she can help build. But her heart is protesting in the most violent way imaginable.”
By the end of the fourth and final episode, any illusions have been dispelled. The atrocities portrayed in The State are well documented by now, and hard to ignore even for the four recruits themselves. What is surprising about the series, though is the insight it seems to offer into extremist groups all over the world: Scenes where women brutally discipline each other while veiled from head to foot have echoes of the recent Hulu series The Handmaid’s Tale, itself based on history; the sense of raging nihilism that Jalal and Ziyaad feel at the beginning of the series brings to mind the alt-right. The State, while a meticulously researched and reportorial series about life inside ISIS, ends up being a parable about isolation and disaffection. It’s not a cheerful ending, but redemption for these characters isn’t the point. It’s trying to understand them, Kosminsky would argue, that matters.


The Emmy Awards have always been a solid arbiter of when trends in the TV industry are here to stay. When HBO got a Best Comedy Series nomination for its fledgling spoof of a talk show, The Larry Sanders Show, in 1993, it was a sign that the network’s move into scripted programming was destined for success. When Michael Chiklis was named Best Actor in a Drama for FX’s The Shield in 2002, it signaled a breakthrough for original shows on basic cable, which had been largely derided as also-rans. With streaming television, the latest and largest revolution, the Emmys have been quick to respond, showering shows like House of Cards and Transparent with attention. But none had ever won a Best Series trophy until Sunday night, when Hulu’s The Handmaid’s Tale made history.
For Netflix, its rival’s victory has to sting a little. When the company, just a few years removed from solely operating as a DVD mail-rental service, announced its first original series House of Cards in 2011, it was seen as little more than a gimmick. Before the show launched, Netflix’s Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos wasn’t even sure if streaming series would be eligible for the Emmys, since they never aired on broadcast television. But House of Cards was an instant success with the TV awards body, garnering a slew of nominations (it’s been shortlisted for Best Drama for each of its five seasons), and more importantly, providing instant prestige to a tricky new format.
Why Netflix Is Releasing So Many New Shows in 2018
It was the triumph of House of Cards at the 2013 Emmys (and, the year after, Orange Is the New Black) that drew impressive creators to streaming networks, and convinced big actors to sign on for shows that would only be available to paying subscribers online and would never even generate ratings data. Since breaking through in 2013, Netflix has netted 14 nominations in the Drama and Comedy Series categories in total—for House of Cards, Orange Is the New Black, Stranger Things, Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, Master of None, and The Crown. The last of those was hotly tipped to do well at the Emmys this year because of its broad appeal to voters—a period piece in the style of Masterpiece Theatre about the British monarchy.
But in the end, the more searing and topical Handmaid’s Tale ran the board Sunday, collecting trophies for Directing, Writing, Lead Actress (Elisabeth Moss), Supporting Actress (Ann Dowd), and Guest Actress (Alexis Bledel). Though Netflix got some solid wins, like a Best Supporting Actor award for John Lithgow in The Crown and Best Writing for Master of None, it ended up losing the top prize to a show that it turned down a few years ago (though Sarandos said The Handmaid’s Tale “wasn’t in the creative form that it is today,” likely referring to an earlier draft of the pilot script).
The Best Drama win is a huge victory for Hulu, which has struggled to define itself with the same brand of quality Netflix established right out of the gate. Its original series, like The Path, Difficult People, and Casual, remain mostly niche hits. The network’s early approach was to greenlight low-budget comedies like Deadbeat or The Wrong Mans, often as co-productions with Europeans networks, but almost all of those shows have been canceled. With The Handmaid’s Tale, based on Margaret Atwood’s novel and featuring a talented cast including Moss, Dowd, and Samira Wiley, Hulu finally has a critical and award-winning hit that can draw in subscribers.
It’s a necessary approach in the streaming era, one Netflix leapt on quickly after recognizing that its back catalog of licensed programming couldn’t last forever (indeed, shows like 30 Rock and How I Met Your Mother are expiring and will leave the platform next month). To retain subscribers, the companies have to offer viewers something they can’t get anywhere else—and The Handmaid’s Tale is exactly that. Hulu had been lagging behind Netflix and Amazon in the original-series department, but just one hit (like Amazon had with Transparent) is enough to change that.
Until this year, streaming TV had remained an interloper at the Emmys, usually netting just one or two nominations in the Original Series categories. This year, a majority of nominated dramas (three from Netflix, one from Hulu) were streaming shows. Within a few years, that’ll likely become the norm, especially since HBO has already become a quasi-streaming network of its own, offering its shows to subscribers in online-only form for $15 a month. The Handmaid’s Tale breakthrough might have been expected, but it’s still significant—and it’s only the beginning of a major television revolution.


This post contains light spoilers through Season 6 of Veep.
“I’m out of a job,” David Mandel joked from the Emmy Awards stage on Sunday evening, as he accepted the statue for Best Comedy Series on behalf of Veep. “I guess we all are,” the HBO comedy’s showrunner added, motioning to the cast and crew assembled behind him—“so if anyone hears anything, I’m looking for movie work, but I’ll do television.”
Mandel was overstating the case just a little: While Veep, the political satire for which he serves as a writer as well as an executive producer, announced that its upcoming season, the show’s seventh, will be its last, he and his team are still very much employed: They’re currently planning that final season, set to air in 2018, and with it the fate of Selina Meyer, that perpetually powerful underdog, and the powerful underdogs in her orbit. Just before the Emmys, Megan Garber spoke with Mandel about how that work is going—about the show’s sixth season, just out on DVD, and about what it’s like to make a show about the American presidency during a time when, as so many people joked during the Emmys telecast, the White House can seem like its own Comedy Series/Drama Series/Reality Competition Program. The conversation below has been edited and condensed.
Megan Garber: You’ve said before that any similarities between Veep and the politics of the real world are usually coincidental—that you’ve made an effort to maintain the integrity of the alternate world you’ve helped to create. Will you keep to that separation in the final season, focusing on thematic overlaps rather than specific ones?
David Mandel: It’s always going to be thematic. And it’s always going to be its own world. For all I know, in Veepworld, at the 1980 convention, Reagan and Ford figured things out, and Ford was the vice president in ’80, and everything was different. Maybe that’s where the time-streams split. Either way, there will continue to be no Donald Trump character in the show, no appearances by any real politicians or real media people. But if there’s anybody on the show who seems like somebody … there are probably reasons for that.
And while you can’t ignore the changes of the last election, I also think that if you go back to 2008, you can already see the way campaigns, campaigning, and elections have changed. So I think there’s an opportunity now for us to dig into all of that.
MG: What in particular changed then, do you think? The rise of social media, that kind of thing?
DM: Social media. All the voter anger. A lot of these “What is an insider? What is an outsider?” questions. And also the idea that people can have just multiple interpretations of the same person. And the hate that has been bubbling up since 2008. I think that’s all interesting.
MG: Are there particular places you look to for inspiration when you’re thinking about how to consider those ideas as comedy?
DM: We do a lot of just looking at history. There’s so much, dare I say, real stuff that has happened. And we have wonderful advisors from both sides of the aisle who have worked on campaigns and for campaigns. In some cases, we’ve met with actual candidates. So we really run the gamut with our research, and in some ways our stories are amalgamations and slightly different versions of things that have happened in reality. I’m a fan of nonfiction. I’m a fan of history. I find that, by looking to the past, we can see some really interesting things.
MG: Have you read What Happened?
DM: I haven’t read it yet. I’ve read the excerpts. But let’s just say I’m well-versed in Shattered, so.
MG: I realize this is not a major coincidence, as coincidences go, but: In the introduction to What Happened, Clinton mentions that she wrote much of the book at her dining-room table, at her house in New York. And in the acknowledgements, she talks about the staffers who worked with her to write it, and she describes them sitting in her living room, writing and editing. Reading that, I couldn’t help but think of Selina, writing her own memoir at … her dining-room table. In New York. Surrounded by her trusty staffers.
DM: You know, especially when it comes to Hillary, it’s this funny thing. Sometimes I think it’s very exciting, when real life sort of hews to what we’ve done on the show—but then sometimes I think it blurs a lot of things for people. They go, “Oh, Hillary did this,” and “Selina did this”—and, “therefore, Selina equals Hillary.” And that’s the part that drives me crazy. Clinton lost, and everyone goes, “Oh, they’re doing that story now.” And it’s like, “No, we did that years ahead!” The show was created in a vacuum that had nothing to do with Hillary Clinton, and it continues to have nothing to do with Hillary Clinton.
MG: I actually hadn’t realized until recently how early the Selina-out-of-office idea had solidified for you, and how long you’d been planning for the show to explore what it means not just to have power, but to lose it. And you’ve also mentioned that there have been jokes you’ve cut specifically because they might appear to be overly derivative of real-world events—even though you wrote them before the event happened in reality. I’m thinking of Trump jokes, in particular.
DM: Right—but also, there have been only one or two of those in a season of 10 episodes jam-packed with jokes. And then someone writes an article, and the headline emphasizes the changed joke. I mean, the notion that we had to change a joke because it was too close to Donald Trump is true. But think about the number of jokes we do in an episode—percentage-wise, you’re talking less than 1 percent of content. I understand why that’s very exciting to reporters, but it’s not particularly exciting to us.
MG: Very fair! But to be a little meta about that, one of the things that interests me about this moment is the new fluidity that can exist between creators and audiences, and the way shows function not just as art, but as ideas—which can often mean fodder for thinkpieces, that kind of thing. Do you read the pieces written about Veep, and do you respond to that audience analysis of the show? Or do you try to keep the show contained to your own creativity and your own desires for it?
DM: I don’t particularly respond. I mean, sometimes I read the reviews, and go, “Great, they see what I want them to see.” And sometimes I read them and go, “Nope, that’s wrong.” But, you know, what are you going to do about it? I am surprised sometimes—or not necessarily surprised, but there are things that I think to myself, like, “Oh, I wonder if someone will do something about this fact or this story”—little bits and pieces of things that are taken from real life. And people rarely do, which I’m always surprised by. And then I wonder why not. I’m not saying we made such a wonderfully obscure reference, but I do wonder, “Maybe people don’t know that story.” I get curious about that kind of thing.
MG: Are you thinking of anything in particular?
DM: I thought, last year, Sherman Tanz was a little bit of a quasi-Mercers-meet-Sheldon Adelson—I thought someone might have discussed it. But it’s more a curiosity than anything else. Just like, “What are people getting, or not getting?” And at the same time, while I’m curious, it doesn’t change anything. The notion of changing what you’re doing or rewriting because of what people say or think—it’s like how you get those Star Wars prequels, I guess. All of the sudden there’s a lot of Boba Fett clones.
MG: Something we’ve been interested in at The Atlantic is the broad question of what art can do at this moment, the political role that art can play in a time of turmoil. Do you have anything like that in the back of your mind as you’re going about the writing process?
DM: Maybe a little. But at some point or another, it’s a comedy. You’re not trying to change the world. But I do think the show has a lot of interesting things to say about political power. That’s what the show, to me, is really about: power. Who has it, who wants it, what they’ll do to get it—all of those things. That’s Selina in a nutshell. And obviously, because of what it has to say about power, the show talks a lot about hypocrisy, both in the government and beyond. And, with all that, I guess some part of me hopes that someone’s eyes will be opened to something through the show. But we’re trying not to be on a high horse.
And we enjoy pointing out the hypocrisy on both sides. So it’s not about Trump, and it’s not-not about Trump, if that makes any sense. Technically Trump is on one side, yes, but he’s not really on a side. And on the more liberal, Democratic side there can certainly be a lot of self-aggrandizement, and it’s very fun to take our shots at that, as well. I pride myself on the show really being about the both-sides abuses of power—both sides not really being about anything.
MG: Can I take that as confirmation that Selina’s party will never be revealed on the show?
DM: Never. Even in the episodes that are not written, you’re never going to know. It’s part of the show. Another thing the show prides itself on is that people from both sides enjoy it. The show has many a Republican fan, and I hope that means something to people who maybe have their own conceptual notion of what a Hollywood show about politics might be. We’re not that.
MG: Speaking of negative spaces, I have to ask you about Jonah. I love that you and the other writers keep a running list of insults for him. And it’s a small tragedy to think that the ones that don’t air will be lost to history. But, meanwhile: What’s your current favorite of the Jonah-insults that have aired so far?
DM: I was quite fond, last season, of an insult that didn’t even have a curse in it. It was when Furlong told Jonah to—I can’t remember the exact line, but told him to stop biting James Bond’s cable-car wire. Which really made me laugh. I was a big fan of the Roger Moore James Bond movies. I didn’t write the joke, but the allusion to Richard Kiel’s Jaws character made me laugh. And I think in its own very strange way, it bothered Tim [Simons, the actor who plays Jonah] a lot. Which made it doubly funny.


When opponents of the president talk about “normalizing” an abnormal administration, they are talking about the sort of thing that took place onstage Sunday night at the Emmys: Sean Spicer, Donald Trump’s first White House press secretary, showed up and made a joke about one of his false claims.
The night otherwise had been a showcase of Hollywood’s liberal leanings as applied to 2017. Stephen Colbert’s intro song and monologue sounded the alarm about global warming, Russian meddling in American politics, and police violence in cute but cutting fashion. “I’d like to vote for Selina Meyer, she’s pretty foxy,” he sang, referencing Julia Louis-Dreyfus’s Veep character. “Imagine if your president was not beloved by Nazis.”
But soon after, Colbert posed the question of how many people were watching the Emmys. The answer came in the form of Spicer’s cameo. The Republican operative wheeled out a podium like the one Melissa McCarthy used in her SNL impression of him. In a mock-stern voice, he announced: “This will be the largest audience to witness an Emmys, period, both in person and around the world!”
*Sean Spicer Is Back* pic.twitter.com/Qfpomd5r9q
There were two ways to read the joke. Charitably: This was a mea culpa, with Spicer tacitly admitting to the whopper he told about Inauguration Day crowds by telling what seemed like a whopper about the Emmys. It was Spicer amplifying the critique that McCarthy’s impression already made of him as a bullheaded, unrepentant fibber.
Less charitably: This was a neutral pop-culture reference, evincing as much of a point of view as someone coming out and quoting Daenerys Targaryen would have had. The Hollywood establishment, in overwhelming part, likes to present itself as in opposition to the Trump administration. But turning the PR guy for that administration into just another character in the entertainment landscape, a lovable provider of quips and shticks, flattens the moral dimensions of the national debate. It says that, deep down, politics is just sport, just drama. Which then undercuts the anti-Trump stands made on the Emmys stage.
Women Won Big at the 2017 Emmys
Many viewers were quick to air discomfort with the Spicer bit. “There’s nothing funny about the damage [Spicer] assisted in planning, defended, & celebrated when he worked in The White House,” tweeted the activist DeRay McKesson. The actor and former Obama adviser Kal Penn wrote, that Spicer “can normalize himself in good fun, but he still passionately advocated against human rights, health care, & American values.” Yet the stigma was apparently not so serious that Spicer couldn’t hold court at the post-Emmys parties. “He could barely eat at the Governor’s Ball, he was so popular,” a CNN source said.
CNN’s reporting also noted that the Spicer cameo was Colbert’s idea: “He and his producers knew there would be blowback. … But Colbert thought it would be funny and surprising, and that’s what mattered most.” The tension between the desire for the shocking laugh and the desire to maintain a real critique will only mount in the coming months and years. Last week, Spicer appeared on Jimmy Kimmel Live!, leading my colleague David Frum to write, “As former Trump staff seek to integrate themselves into American civic and business life, it will be important to evaluate which of them can be rehabilitated—and which have compromised themselves in ways that cannot be redeemed.” Already, the short-lived White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci has landed gigs co-hosting The View and TMZ on TV, where he, no doubt, can be let in on the jokes about him.
Backstage after the Emmys, Alec Baldwin was asked about the propriety of Spicer’s appearance. “Spicer obviously was compelled to do certain things that we might not have respected, that we might not have admired, that we might have been super-critical of, in order to do his job,” Baldwin replied. “But I’ve done some jobs that are things that you shouldn’t admire or respect me for either. So he and I have that in common, I suppose.” The obvious truth about that comparison is that Baldwin is an entertainer and Spicer was a public servant, held to a different standard and capable of more significant lapses. Or maybe not, as it turns out.


Five years ago, I got an email from two Hollywood producers who wanted to turn my first novel, Carrie Pilby, into a movie. I was thrilled, but reminded myself not to expect much. After all, in the years since the book’s publication in 2003, two other production companies had paid me a few thousand dollars each to option the rights for a year, and nothing had come of it. Should I really fantasize about my characters living and breathing on the big screen?
The novel tells the story of the nerdy 19-year-old Carrie, who graduated from Harvard three years early and has no idea how to date or make friends in New York. It was published in the middle of the “chick lit” craze, when offbeat single-gal books like Bridget Jones’s Diary and The Girls’ Guide to Hunting and Fishing were taking over the publishing industry. Luckily, reviewers said mine was one of the more original novels in the genre, and it went on to sell 74,000 copies worldwide. But nearly a decade later, I was struggling with revisions to a new book, still living in a tiny apartment in the town I’d moved to after college, and about to turn 40. I really wanted my writing to reach a new audience. Actually, I really wanted to be able to afford furniture.
Every other author I knew who’d dealt with Tinseltown had emerged disappointed. One novelist friend whose single-girl book came out around the same time as mine saw the rights quickly gobbled up by producers, who then nabbed Lindsay Lohan to star. My friend waited for the movie to happen for more than a decade—then wound up writing a novel about an author who waits for her book to become a movie. Another colleague, a best-selling novelist, saw her project green-lit and script completed, but the project fell apart when, supposedly, two of the main producers became romantically involved and ran off together. Neither story was a complete tragedy; the authors got a little extra publicity for their books and some option money, usually $500 to $5,000 for each year the producers held the rights. But these stories had taught me to manage my expectations.
Fortunately for me, things worked out the third time: The film adaptation of Carrie Pilby finally came out this month on Netflix after a limited theatrical run in April. The movie stars the British actress Bel Powley (who had won raves for her lead performance in the 2015 indie favorite The Diary of a Teenage Girl), alongside Nathan Lane, Gabriel Byrne, Vanessa Bayer, Jason Ritter, William Moseley, and Colin O’Donoghue. As I (still) work to finish my new teen novel, I’ve been answering a lot of questions: Why did it take so long to make the movie? Am I happy with how it all turned out? And most of all, why aren’t I rich? The truth is, so much has to align when adapting a book for the screen that it’s practically a miracle when it works out. And even though this strange process hasn’t left me wealthy, it’s been fascinating and rewarding to watch it unfold from start to finish.
* * *
I wrote Carrie Pilby when I was a frustrated, single 20-something living in Hoboken, New Jersey. I had finished several young-adult novels that agents rejected as “too slow,” so one Friday night I penned a funny rant that eventually turned into a book. I sent a few chapters to literary agencies in New York, ultimately drawing the interest of Cheryl Pientka, a relatively new agent. When she submitted the novel to publishers, she also passed it along to a film agent in L.A. who had worked with a lot of adaptations, and that agent mailed the manuscript out to various producers.
Then came my first two (failed) encounters with Hollywood. Early on, a film company optioned the book to adapt it into a TV series, paying me $5,000 to hold onto the rights for a year. The project never came to fruition (though I still think Carrie Pilby would make a great show). A few years later, I struck a similar deal with Disney, but again, nothing emerged. Still, my experience seemed like the norm, considering the vast majority of properties that get optioned for TV or film never actually get made.
My third chance came in 2012, when I got an email from Suzanne Farwell, who had produced It’s Complicated and The Holiday. She told me she had partnered with the independent film producer Susan Johnson (Mean Creek), who was ready to direct her first feature. So I signed a contract to give them the rights for a year, and then went back to work at my full-time community newspaper job in Hoboken, editing a story about pooper-scooper laws.
Only this time, things started happening after I signed the contract—albeit slowly. Even making an independent film for less than $5 million takes a lot of meetings with investors. There are six major studios in Hollywood, meaning only a few companies have the budget to produce, distribute, and publicize films themselves: These studios raked in 84 percent of the box-office gross in 2016. With more than 700 films released domestically in theaters last year, and more heading to other platforms and festivals, that’s a lot of competition for a limited pool of resources. But Johnson and Farwell had new technology in their favor. In 2013, they jumpstarted the project by doing what Johnson had done with prior indie films: launching a Kickstarter campaign to raise seed money.
What Netflix Can Offer Shonda Rhimes
The month-long effort exceeded its original $50,000 goal, raising more than enough to land a screenwriter—in this case, Kara Holden (Meant to Be). It was unusual and exciting to have both a female director and female screenwriter: In its first report on the subject in 2015, the Directors Guild of America found women make up just 6.4 percent of feature-film directors, while 13 percent of writers on the 250 top grossing domestic films last year were women. My contract didn’t award me any creative control over the script; most book authors don’t get much leverage unless you’re as successful as E.L. James or Stephen King. But in this case, the director and producers were enthusiastic about the book and had done great work, so I had to have a little faith.
Johnson was kind enough to send me drafts of the script for feedback anyway. Holden kept most of the main storylines intact, while enriching and fleshing out others. I found it satisfying, in one case, to see a manipulative male character get his just deserts, since the book had left the outcome unresolved.
Once the filmmakers had a finished script in hand, they could attract talent. From 2013 to 2015, a slew of respected actors came on board, including the leads Powley and Lane. But there still were months when it seemed like nothing would happen. As with any creative project, one change could scuttle the whole thing at the last second—an actor’s scheduling conflict, funds drying up, a similar project coming out at the same time. Then came news that gave the movie the push it needed: Powley had a long line of projects set up for 2016, so production needed to start by the end of 2015. Finally, we had our deadline.
* * *
On an afternoon before Thanksgiving, I left work, took a bus across the Hudson River, and stepped into an alternate universe: a production office that the filmmakers set up on the 23rd floor of a Manhattan skyscraper. A costume designer, set designers, producers, and accountants ran through a hallway wielding outfits, props, schedules, and scripts. It was humbling to meet them and surreal to spy receipts on a desk billed to Carrie Pilby. The office was bare-bones, with storyboards taped to the walls. Someone had strung Christmas lights across a Macintosh computer. They were handcrafting a movie.
After five years of raising money (including a climactic last-minute phone call to secure the last few thousand dollars), holding auditions, revising scripts, and cobbling together wardrobe and sets, the actual filming took only 20 days. Once a week for a month, I left my office to visit the set for a few hours. On the first day, cameras were crammed into a small building that was to be Carrie’s apartment; most of the crew had to watch the action on a monitor in a different room. To my surprise, everyone seemed relaxed, confident, and upbeat. “We’re happy,” Johnson explained.
Like the crew, the actors were very kind when I met them. When I was introduced to Lane, the Broadway legend showed me his copy of the book, marked up, and said dramatically, “It’s a beautiful book, and I think it’s going to be a beautiful movie.” I thanked him and said I was sure it would be. Filming was followed by six months of editing, including adding sound effects and the score, which was composed, to my delight, by Michael Penn of Boogie Nights.
While millions of dollars are spent on a film’s production and post-production, there’s another, crucial step—getting the finished product to viewers. The industry has changed drastically in the last few years, with some films going straight to Netflix and other digital platforms. The fate of indie movies in particular is often determined at festivals. There, distributors see a trailer or the finished product and decide how much money to invest and where to release it; they can speak with filmmakers and gauge audience and critic interest.
Almost exactly a year ago, Carrie Pilby debuted at the Toronto International Film Festival, a launchpad for several Oscar-winning projects including Silver Linings Playbook and American Beauty. I made the trip to see the film screened before 1,500 people. It had been apparent to me during the process that the filmmakers really “got” the book, turning my 400 pages into a heartfelt 90-minute movie. Sitting in the audience, listening to the crowd laugh and applaud, it was clear to me that the audience “got” the film. And the next day, I was pleased to read a four-star review in The Guardian calling Carrie Pilby an “ambitious, upbeat, and surprising comedy.”
The film had a weeklong theatrical run in April, thanks to the Sony distributor The Orchard, and it went to digital platforms soon after. I was surprised: I’d hoped Carrie Pilby would be in theaters longer, but large-scale openings are relatively rare for indie films. While many people still love the cinema experience, and 18 to 24 year olds went to the movies an average of 6.5 times last year, up slightly from 2015—29 percent of adults and children spent 2016 without making a theater trip. In the last few years, Netflix has inked deals with film-industry bigwigs like Adam Sandler, Martin Scorsese, and the Coen brothers to release their projects on the streaming service. I’ve been hearing from a whole new audience now that the film is on Netflix.
Following the premiere of Carrie Pilby, it seems most people I talk to are still curious about the whole money aspect. The fact is, book authors rarely become wealthy from movie deals. When the screen rights are sold (or when the option is “exercised”), the writer often gets a sum equal to about 2.5 percent of the budget. Keep in mind indie films are only made for a few million dollars. There are sometimes monetary bonuses if a big studio signs on, but after 10 to 15 percent agent fees and then taxes, the resulting sum is often less than six figures. However, I am now quite rich in inspiration, which helps as I put the last touches on that teen novel and a funny memoir.
In the years before I sold Carrie Pilby, when I was struggling through my 20s, I used to read about people my age making it big quickly and seethe with jealousy. But most artistic and entrepreneurial folks I know have been forging on for two or three decades, project by project, small victory after small victory. Even two of the actors in the film told me they still feel like they have to fight to get roles. It’s the slow, steady steps that lead to realizing a creative dream. As it turns out, occasionally there are happy endings in Hollywood. With dedication, passion, an ability to withstand rejection, and a little luck, it’s possible to be an overnight success in just under 20 years.


Colin Kaepernick Has a Job
Rembert Browne | Bleacher Report
“As a black man with a black biological father and a white biological mother, adopted by loving white parents who raised him in a majority white town to become a star three-sport athlete, a God-fearing Christian, and a model citizen, this went well beyond the experience of a privileged American jock. This was a unique finesse, somewhere between Orenthal and Obama.”
The Battle for Blade Runner
Michael Schulman | Vanity Fair
“How did a movie marked by infighting, artistic compromise, and commercial failure manage to burrow its way into pop-culture immortality? Much of the answer lies with Ridley Scott, whose hyper-detailed imaginative vision was matched only by his Draconian means of realizing it. It would be wrong, though, to call Blade Runner an auteurist masterpiece—it’s also a mess.”
Michael Keaton: ‘There Was a Lot of Bad Taste in the ’90s and I Contributed to That’
Hadley Freeman | The Guardian
“He looks strikingly different from the man I have spent four decades watching on screen: He has the trim, spry build of a wiry woodsman rather than a 66-year-old actor, thanks to half a lifetime spent in rural Montana, fishing and hunting. His walk is reminiscent of a rooster’s strut, with his chest puffed out and a bounce on his toes; that swagger we saw in 2014’s Birdman ... was not a put on, it turns out.”
Graydon Carter and Film Festivals: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
The Art of Space Art
Kastalia Medrano | The Paris Review
“Most objects in space are either so faint or so distant that even the newest generation of telescopes can’t return images that do them aesthetic justice. Hence the value of artists, who can extrapolate scientific findings into fantastical craters and overlarge moons, their colors dark with science-fiction vibrancy.”
On Set With This Is Us: TV’s Feel-Good Megahit Ups the Stakes in Season 2
Lacey Rose | The Hollywood Reporter
“The development pipeline already is being clogged with self-consciously soulful imitations as rivals looks to reverse-engineer its success, but replicating This Is Us won't come easy. Some credit the show's evocative tone for helping it to cut through, others its pitch-perfect casting. The only piece everyone, including [the creator Dan] Fogelman, seems to agree on is its significance as a cultural antidote.”
Tears of a Crazy Clown
Judy Berman | The Baffler
“Human nature, and carving real human beings out of Twin Peaks’s caricatures, turned out to be one of The Return’s central concerns. As the season progressed, it shattered any lingering impression of [David] Lynch as a detached, self-consciously quirky sadist, chuckling mirthlessly over the rottenness at the core of American life and the ignorance of any person who fails to see it.”
The Inevitability of Taylor Swift. Ready For It?
Kelsey McKinney | The Village Voice
“Unlike with the release of 1989 in 2014 ... Swift is no longer perceived as a sweet pop darling. In place of the critical and popular thrill over her new album, there has been a soft collective groan. The world, for many, feels so polarized, so dire, that cute and clever doesn’t cut it anymore.”
Asking Questions Louis C.K. Doesn’t Want to Answer
Cara Buckley | The New York Times
“‘There are these people in the world that we all talk about, and we want to know that they’re all good or they’re all bad,’ Louis C.K. said. ... ‘The uncomfortable truth is, you never really know. You don’t know anybody.’ ... It’s an observation that raises the question of how well do audiences know Louis C.K., a man who has built his career out of relentlessly, albeit thoughtfully, mining collective discomforts and taboos.”


Don’t Miss
‘What More Do You Need’—Megan Garber reads What Happened, Hillary Clinton’s latest memoir, in which the politician has become cautiously diaristic.
The Business of Creativity
Why I’m Still Trying to Get a Book Deal After 10 Years—Anjali Enjeti explains her dedication to becoming a published author and how her approach has changed over the last decade.
Marjorie Liu on the Road to Making Monstress—Lenika Cruz interviews the writer about working for Marvel, the loneliness of novel-writing, and why her epic-fantasy comic series is mostly populated by women and characters of color.
Film
Yorgos Lanthimos on His New Film The Killing of a Sacred Deer—David Sims chats with the director of The Lobster about the dark premise of his follow-up, working with stars like Colin Farrell and Nicole Kidman, and his unique sensibility.
Mother! Is a Stunning, Ferocious Head Trip—Christopher Orr watches the writer-director Darren Aronofsky’s metaphor-rich horror movie, a work of amazing ambition that’s definitely not for everybody.
Hollywood Moguls Are the New Auteurs—David Sims unpacks the news that Star Wars: Episode IX director Colin Trevorrow lost his job after clashing with the real power behind the franchise: the producer Kathleen Kennedy.
First They Killed My Father Is a Surprising, Devastating Triumph—David Sims praises Angelina Jolie’s new film, which follows the Cambodian Civil War and the brutal Khmer Rouge regime through the eyes of a young girl.
TV
Insecure and the Fiction of Possibility—Megan Garber reviews the HBO show’s Season 2 finale, which takes a Sliding Doors approach to its characters’ lives to masterful effect.
The Strange Confusion of Top of the Lake: China Girl—Sophie Gilbert thinks Elisabeth Moss, Nicole Kidman, and Gwendoline Christie star in a recurring series gone very wrong.
Darkness on the Edge of Broad City—Spencer Kornhaber says the manic-pixie yas kweens squirm under Trump in Season 4.
Better Things Is Almost Perfect Television—Sophie Gilbert calls the FX comedy-drama by Pamela Adlon one of the sharpest and most poignant shows in recent memory.
The Apolitical Politics of the Celebrity Hurricane Telethon—Spencer Kornhaber writes that amid raising $44 million, Stevie Wonder and Beyoncé blew past the question of whether it’d be divisive to talk about climate change.
Will Netflix or HBO Dominate the 2017 Emmy Awards?—Sophie Gilbert takes a look at what to expect from the 69th ceremony honoring the best of television.
Music
Princess Nokia’s Brash, Oddball Rap—Spencer Kornhaber listens to the young artist’s 1992 Deluxe, a super-fun, smart celebration of how identity is tied to culture.
The False Prophets of Protest Music—Spencer Kornhaber dismisses the political rock of members of Rage Against the Machine, Public Enemy, and Cypress Hill as seeming immediately obsolete.
Books
Jenny Zhang: ‘Tiny Stories’ Are Vital to Literature—Joe Fassler talks to the Sour Heart author about Roberto Bolaño’s “Dance Card,” humanizing minor characters through irreverence, and homing in on history’s footnotes.
A Novel That Imagines a World Without Bees—Tori Latham analyzes Maja Lunde’s climate-fiction debut, which uses species extinction to ask its human characters: What’s more important, self-interest or sacrifice?
Eka Kurniawan’s Darkly Comic Tale of Boyhood—Jane Yong Kim believes Vengeance Is Mine, All Others Pay Cash is a surreal, poignant account of a teen attempting to become a man.


There’s only one scene in First They Killed My Father that isn’t told through the eyes of Loung Ung (Sareum Srey Moch), the young daughter of a high-ranking Cambodian government official who was swept up in the terror of the Khmer Rouge’s campaign of genocide in 1975. It’s the opening montage, one cutting between footage of Richard Nixon insisting on American neutrality in the country and newsreels of the violence and bombing that spilled over into Cambodia’s borders during the Vietnam War. “This is not an invasion of Cambodia,” Nixon intones over images of burning jungles and burnt bodies on the streets of Phnom Penh, as the Rolling Stones song “Sympathy for the Devil” roars on the soundtrack.
Perhaps it’s a little on the nose, but it’s also the one freewheeling, stylish flourish director Angelina Jolie allows in her sober new film, an adaptation of Ung’s 2000 memoir of her childhood during the Khmer Rouge rule of Cambodia in the late 1970s that resulted in the deaths of close to 2 million people (a conservative estimate). First They Killed My Father, subtitled A Daughter of Cambodia Remembers, is a Khmer-language film focused on the atrocities Ung personally witnessed as she was torn from her childhood in Phnom Penh during the Cambodian Civil War, and its villains are mostly the unnamed soldiers and revolutionaries that torment her family. But before she delves into this individual story, Jolie takes great strain to make clear how this chaos was sewn, and that responsibility for Cambodia’s descent into violence lies far beyond its borders.
By the Sea: When Ennui Is Très Jolie
To this day, very few films have been made about the brutal Khmer Rouge regime, a legacy the country is still only beginning to come to grips with. The most memorable is certainly Roland Joffé’s Oscar-winning 1984 epic The Killing Fields, but that was a film centered on the American journalist Sydney Schanberg (played by Sam Waterston) and his reporting. Jolie could be accused of bringing a similar Western perspective, though she is the adoptive mother of a Cambodian son and has done extensive charity work in the country. But the triumph of First They Killed My Father is that she avoids any white-savior pitfalls, presenting Ung’s story clearly and candidly, and wisely keeping her camera trained on Srey Moch, an astonishing young first-time actor who proves a perfect conduit for the story Jolie wants to tell.
Ung is one of seven children living in relative comfort in Phnom Penh; her father (played with extraordinary grace by Phoeung Kompheak) is a government official, and when the Khmer Rouge rebels sweep into the capital, he knows he’ll be marked as a target and spirits his family into the countryside. Jolie, who co-wrote the film with Ung, does not try to over-explain every political detail of the civil war or Pol Pot’s resulting regime (a purportedly Communist government that immediately descended into dictatorial terror). First They Killed My Father is told from a child’s-eye view, with the camera frequently focusing on Ung’s open, sweet face and then cutting to whatever nightmare she’s seeing.
At two hours and 16 minutes long, the film might sound like a slog, but Jolie has no interest in drawn-out depictions of torture or execution, holding off on the sort of relentless, graphic violence she could deploy to easily drive the horror home. That’s not to say First They Killed My Father lacks gruesome imagery, but it’s usually brief and chaotic, glimpsed by Ung as she tries to flee or ignore the terror going on around her. At first, she’s living in secret with her family, who try to pose as ordinary, working-class folk to avoid the wrath of the Khmer Rouge (whose targets, aside from ethnic minorities, included anyone connected with the prior government). Later, she’s separated from them and trained as a child soldier for the ongoing civil war; Ung’s story follows her long, slow quest to reunite with her siblings.
Jolie’s masterstroke is that she never departs from the gaze of her young protagonist. There’s little sense of time passing—it could be months or years, given Ung’s inability to find any grounding in the destroyed farmland, labor camps, and military bases she’s swept through. It’s easy to understand every decision she makes to survive, even her terrifying recruitment as a soldier who lays mines in Cambodia’s dense jungle. The loss of her father (hardly a spoiler, considering the film’s title) is the film’s most profoundly restrained moment, all the more devastating for how cryptically it happens, as he does his best to hide the details of his impending fate from his children.
First They Killed My Father, which debuts on Netflix and in limited theatrical release Friday, is Jolie’s fourth film as a director and her first unambiguous triumph. Though she showed extensive visual flair in her last two movies, the war epic Unbroken and the dark, romantic drama By the Sea (a seemingly autobiographical tale that co-starred her then-husband Brad Pitt), this film matches that with a simpler, more powerful story, largely free of cliché and delivered with incredible restraint. Jolie’s clearly trying to use her brand as a Hollywood megastar to make projects with limited commercial potential and get them to the widest possible audience. But as altruistic as that effort may be, the films still have to be good to really make an impact—and First They Killed My Father is very, very good.


Protest music is thriving, if you want to hear it. A top-of-my-head assortment: Kendrick Lamar’s post-election self-interrogations, Sheer Mag’s resistance-minded retrofitting of Thin Lizzy, Vince Staples’s dizzying F.U. to the White House, and Lana Del Rey’s knowingly naïve pleas for world peace. Even the slick, chart-courting likes of Fifth Harmony have anthems about building bridges and not walls. Yet if your genre tastes or tribal affiliations or overpowering nostalgia for the WTO protests disqualify the above from being taken seriously—well, today you have the thudding debut by Prophets of Rage.
A super-group formed during the 2016 election because “dangerous times demand dangerous songs,” Prophets of Rage includes members of Rage Against the Machine (among them the effects-pedals activist Tom Morello), Public Enemy (including Chuck D, the stern embodiment of rap’s political potential), and Cypress Hill (B-Real, the squeaky stoner of “Insane in the Brain”). Their protest-artists pedigree is mostly impeccable, and their initial outings saw them reworking old hits for today’s rallies. Outside the Republican National Convention, for example, Chuck D and B-Real aimed Zack de la Rocha’s lyrics in “Killing in the Name” at newly explicit targets. Now, it was “some of those up in Congress” who were “the same that burn crosses.”
The National's Super-Political Love Songs
Eight months into the Trump administration, any temptation to call such an effort overly ham-handed has been squelched. The chorus of Prophets of Rage’s “Unfuck the World” says “no hatred / fuck racists,” and the president’s response to the Charlottesville violence has made clear that the band is not simply stating the obvious. Yet over the 12 tracks of their self-titled debut, the Prophets seem stuck in an aesthetic bunker of nostalgia and self-satisfaction—an unfortunate place from which to launch a revolution.
On the opener, “Radical Eyes,” Chuck D booms that he’s feeling “rage-ified,” and that’s a handy term for the mode the album is in. It’s a lot like Rage Against the Machine, but it’s not the real thing. Rage’s Morello, drummer Brad Wilk, and bassist Tim Commerford dutifully rebuild the sound that shook ’90s radio: sludgy low end, drums marrying James Brown and “When the Levee Breaks,” and fluorescent guitars that might make you think of a video-poker machine announcing a jackpot. But in place of de la Rocha’s agitation there’s Chuck D’s steady preaching and—a big part of the problem—B-Real’s simplistic sneer. Their forgettable verses make way for choruses that loop-the-loop over mounting squall from Morello and Public Enemy’s DJ Lord. It’s as if mere repetition and noise might alchemize words into deeds.

Such rap-rock is not, exactly, the music of these times. Are the messages current, at least? “You fell asleep and when you woke up / 45 for the win,” Chuck D says on the opener, and it’s worth noting that the line would have technically worked regardless of who prevailed last November. “By George, he’s the new Wallace,” he raps on “Hail to the Chief,” a song that doesn’t aspire to much other than further bumming out those already bummed by Trump’s election. On “Smashit,” B-Real seems annoyed at Democrats: “They forgot about Michigan / like all is magnificent.” Otherwise, the album mostly passes in a blur of vague condemnations of liars and PSA-mild calls for action: “Give a damn, evil can’t stand / When the people take a stand.”
Even the more specific songs are fangless. It might take a few listens to “Strength in Numbers” to notice the Standing Rock references amid its bumper-sticker word salad, and the flirtations with nonviolent resistance in “Fired a Shot” just come off as controversy-adverse metaphors. “Legalize Me” takes some of the faux-militant vibe of Edwin Starr’s “War” to rumble about decriminalizing pot, with B-Real mostly just listing the places where dispensaries already do business. You’re left thinking weed should be legalized so guys in Che Guevara T-shirts might more easily get high, rather than to help break the schools-to-prison pipeline. “Living on the 110,” which draws attention to the homelessness under a major Los Angeles freeway, is a highlight simply because it commits to one concrete cause.
Rage Against the Machine and Public Enemy didn’t always talk in terms of specific policies or people either. But they did have a knack for rendering society’s longstanding injustices in vivid, even shocking terms. Zack de la Rocha, a true radical, could shake the listener’s soul with images like the one in “Down Rodeo”: “I’m rollin’ down Rodeo with a shotgun / These people ain’t seen a brown-skinned man since their grandparents bought one.” Chuck D once described black alienation with brilliant candor, calling Elvis and John Wayne “straight-up racist.” He recycled that famous verse last year for Prophets of Rage’s “No Sleep Til Cleveland,” itself a rewrite of a Beastie Boys song. The fact that the results made for the best track in the Prophets of Rage catalogue suggests that these past giants of political music are just that: the past. If revolution comes by song, it will come from elsewhere.


In 2013, Netflix became the first streaming service to win a Primetime Emmy Award. That was just four years ago, but feels considerably longer in TV years—at the time, individual chapters of the show House of Cards were still commonly referred to as “webisodes,” and Netflix had a relatively paltry 30 million subscribers instead of the roughly 104 million it has today.
Today, the television landscape is completely different. Almost half of the shows nominated for best comedy or drama at the Emmys this year come from streaming services: Netflix’s Stranger Things, The Crown, House of Cards, Master of None, and Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, and Hulu’s The Handmaid’s Tale. Netflix isn’t quite the biggest player at this Sunday’s ceremony; HBO received 111 nominations, even without Game of Thrones, its flagship production, being eligible. But the streaming service almost doubled the number of nominations it received compared to last year (91 to 54). And with Netflix intent on releasing an even bigger slate of new shows in 2018, its influence will only increase.
A Shake-Up for the 2017 Emmy Nominations
For viewers, Netflix’s vast infusion of cash has contributed to a spate of exceptional television—both from the streaming service itself and from the traditional networks struggling to keep up. The trend to watch for this year is whether voters reward less conventional recent releases (FX’s Atlanta, Hulu’s The Handmaid’s Tale, Netflix’s Stranger Things, HBO’s Big Little Lies) or more traditional Emmys-friendly fare (Netflix’s The Crown, ABC’s Modern Family, Ryan Murphy’s Feud: Bette and Joan). That’s to say nothing of the shows and actors that didn’t get their due: HBO’s The Leftovers and Insecure, Amazon’s Fleabag, Starz’s The Girlfriend Experience, Oprah Winfrey’s performance in The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks.
FX’s Atlanta is one of the shows it would be gratifying to see honored on Sunday, given the ingenuity of its storytelling and the surreal but compassionate humor of its creator and star, Donald Glover. The same goes for ABC’s Black-ish, which responded to the election with a thoughtful and nuanced dissection of racism in America. But it’s entirely likely that the award for best comedy series will go to HBO’s Veep, which has been nominated for all of its six seasons, and won the last two years in a row.
The best drama category has been upended by the ineligibility of Game of Thrones (due to its later schedule in 2017), which also won the award for the last two years. It’s possible that NBC’s hit family drama This Is Us could pull off a surprise win, or that HBO’s Westworld or Netflix’s The Crown could score. But it seems most likely that either Netflix’s Stranger Things or Hulu’s The Handmaid’s Tale will ultimately triumph. This would be a significant victory for streaming TV, which hasn’t yet claimed one of the two big prizes at the Emmys.
Then there are the acting awards. Jeffrey Tambor’s performance as Maura Pfefferman on Amazon’s Transparent won him Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series in 2015 and 2016. In the Lead Actress category for comedy, it’s most likely Julia Louis-Dreyfus will win for the sixth successive year for HBO’s Veep, but if voters decide to go rogue, Jane Fonda or Lily Tomlin could triumph for Netflix’s Grace and Frankie. For Lead Actress in a Drama Series, the biggest contenders look to be Elisabeth Moss for The Handmaid’s Tale and Claire Foy for her role as Queen Elizabeth II in The Crown. Lead Actor in a Drama is anyone’s guess, with Anthony Hopkins (Westworld) and Milo Ventimiglia and Sterling K. Brown (This Is Us) seeming like strong candidates.
The limited-series acting categories seem to be where HBO still dominates. Nicole Kidman should claim the lead-actress award for her extraordinary performance as an abused wife in Big Little Lies, but Reese Witherspoon is also nominated for the same show. Jessica Lange and Susan Sarandon are also both nominated for Feud, as are Carrie Coon for Fargo and Felicity Huffman for American Crime. All six actresses have done remarkable work this year. In the lead-actor category, Riz Ahmed and John Turturro face off for HBO’s The Night Of, with Robert De Niro another contender for his role as Bernie Madoff in The Wizard of Lies. HBO could also clean up in the supporting categories, with Bill Camp and Michael K. Williams nominated for The Night Of, Alexander Skarsgard, Laura Dern, and Shailene Woodley for Big Little Lies, and Michelle Pfeiffer for The Wizard of Lies. But Stanley Tucci and Alfred Molina deserve praise, too, for their supporting roles in Feud.
The supporting categories for comedy and drama look promising for streaming services: Ann Dowd deserves to win Supporting Actress in a Drama for her role as Aunt Lydia in The Handmaid’s Tale, with Samira Wiley nominated for the same show, Uzo Aduba for Orange Is the New Black, and Millie Bobby Brown for Stranger Things (Thandie Newton has a good chance for Westworld, and This Is Us’s Chrissy Metz is a fan favorite). For comedy, Judith Light and Kathryn Hahn are both nominated for Transparent, but the award seems destined for Kate McKinnon for her work on Saturday Night Live. Alec Baldwin will also presumably win for playing Donald Trump on the same show, but in the Supporting Actor in a Drama category, John Lithgow seems to be the favorite for his role as Winston Churchill on The Crown.
Beyond that, the biggest questions are who will win for Outstanding Limited Series (likely Big Little Lies), Outstanding Television Movie (potentially The Wizard of Lies, although Netflix’s Black Mirror could win its first Emmy for “San Junipero”), and Outstanding Variety Talk Series (the Emmys’ host this year, Stephen Colbert, should rightfully win for his reenergized post-election work on The Late Show). HBO may ultimately end up the biggest winner of the night—it took 19 awards at last weekend’s Creative Arts Emmys, to Netflix’s 16 and NBC’s 9. But the real race, for Netflix, seems to be just beginning.


The novel Vengeance Is Mine, All Others Pay Cash opens simply, by stating its premise: The teenager Ajo Kawir has a bit of a hardware problem. His bird, as he puts it, “won’t stand up.” His friend Gecko knows what’s going on; it’s why he never invites Ajo Kawir to watch porn together or to “loiter in front of the post office and catcall the girls passing by.” Gecko’s father does, too; it’s why he takes his son’s friend to see a sex worker, and why he says things like, “Only guys who can’t get hard can fight with no fear of death.”
From the get-go in this story, the ups and downs of burgeoning teenage identity tangle with the warmhearted, if sometimes misguided, efforts of family and friends to solve deeply personal issues. Also from the get-go, the lens turns both inward, to Ajo Kawir’s thoughts, and outward, to a world too often preoccupied with the virility of its men. This latter focus makes sense, given that Vengeance is the work of Eka Kurniawan, the talented Indonesian author who was longlisted for the Man Booker International prize in 2016 and whose previous novels, Beauty Is a Wound and Man Tiger, have examined the deeply embedded effects of societal sexism.
With his new protagonist, Kurniawan wryly homes in on the young man’s insecurities and fixations. Ajo Kawir initially bemoans his fate. He tries all manner of wake-up remedies, from rubbing chili pepper on his penis to letting it get stung by bees. He begins to talk to it, cajoling and scolding by turns. Simultaneously, he is blossoming into a brawler ready to take on anyone with his fists, or a knife: “Even when cornered, he was the kind of fighter who’d let his opponent break his arm if it gave him the opportunity to break the other guy’s leg.” That inclination ends up getting the 19-year-old tasked with killing a gangster named Tiger.
The Lucky Ones Is No Ordinary Coming-of-Age Novel
The semi-comic, pulp-y framing lures readers into what becomes a poignant exploration of an adolescent mind lurching toward maturity. Because if the reactions to Ajo Kawir’s predicament are fairly sweet, the reason for it—seemingly, the horrific rape of a vulnerable woman by local police officers that the teen witnesses—is anything but. Ajo Kawir’s terror and guilt at watching, and at first feeling aroused by, tremendous sexual violence are matched in intensity only by his resulting anger toward influential men who see women as disposable. (His growing ability to exact physical revenge complicates the power dynamic as well.)
There’s no mistaking the moral stakes Kurniawan sets up, from the complicity of the bystander to the surrounding community’s internalization of individual violence. If the fable-esque set-up seems a bit heavy-handed, Kurniawan avoids that pitfall by wrapping his tale in warmth and candor. He captures the tender rationale of teens in the swell of adolescent transformation, showing (through the character of Gecko, who gladly loans his father to his friend) how intuitively empathetic young people can be toward each other. Ajo Kawir himself is a complicated mix of soul and physicality: He doubts his ability to satisfy a woman, even as he comes to a strange sort of peace with his body. He’s by turns forlorn, frustrated, and wise—and slowly his life unfurls in fascinating, rich ways.
Kurniawan’s unhurried, magical-realist style, which the author last used in Man Tiger—to tell the story of a man who has a female white tiger dwelling inside him—is a snug fit for the world of Vengeance. The early chapters are particularly electric, full of the sort of specialness that’s only possible through the whole assumption of kids’ perspectives, with their internal logic and low-to-the-ground vantage. And while characters aren’t fleshed out descriptively, they aren’t stick figures either. The sparseness means the occasional detail lands brightly: Readers learn in passing that Ajo Kawir devoured martial arts comics while growing up, as, apparently, did his crush Iteung, a fellow fighter he notices mimicking the language of the comics.
Vengeance is interesting formally, too: Its brief, cinematic scenes, not always chronologically ordered, build like stacked, occasionally off-kilter blocks, a visual Jenga. Kurniawan confidently drops in details without explaining them, sets readers down in medias res, and presents dream sequences as though they’re real, always shifting gears with ease. It’s to his credit (and to Annie Tucker’s simple but vibrant translation) that his experiments don’t create reader whiplash.
Such flash imagery helps bring to life the many, many fights Ajo Kawir lands in. If fists go up frequently in Vengeance, they also, it’s worth noting, belong to both enemies and lovers. A physical confrontation with Iteung leaves Ajo Kawir feeling “shattered to pieces,” while his foes get some poetic treatment as well. “Then a punch struck him squarely on the jaw,” Ajo Kawir dreams, of dueling with Tiger. “He felt himself flying, floating, and then landing on the surface of the water.”
Vengeance isn’t trying to show the fights’ beauty for beauty’s sake, but to illustrate how a boy might find them beautiful—freeing, wild, their own form of political identity and coalesced power, a way to not have control and be okay with that. That tension is, of course, part of the author’s broader point, tracing back to the rape Ajo Kawir witnesses: His yen for violence both proves and indicts the long reach of unchecked brutality. There is, Kurniawan suggests, a wisp of a line between selfish cruelty and righteous violence, between voyeurism and action, between a passionate embrace and a death grip.
In Man Tiger, Kurniawan masterfully played with time to tell a complicated family story from multiple sides. The point of that novel, as with Vengeance, is to show the insidious, trickle-down effects of men who wreak havoc with little consideration for those around them. Both works illustrate these knots of community, where propriety and rage and survival coexist, with a surprising amount of compassion—and illuminate the pain and learning of the next generation with tremendous grace.


Darren Aronofsky’s heady horror film mother! begins with a large and beautifully octagonal Victorian country house, encircled on all sides by tall grass and, beyond, by trees. There is no driveway or other obvious means of access—no evidence, really, of a world apart from this house. A young woman lives there with her older husband, a poet. She is played by Jennifer Lawrence and identified only as “mother,” though she does not yet have any children; he is played by Javier Bardem and identified as “him.” She spends her days cooking, cleaning, and meticulously restoring the house, which, we learn, had previously burned in a fire. (She is literally a “home-maker.”) He, meanwhile, spends his days brooding, fountain pen in hand, over a blank page. He was once a famous writer, but his words have abandoned him.
God's Will vs. Man's Will in Darren Aronofsky's Noah
One night, a stranger (Ed Harris) shows up on their doorstep. He says he’s a doctor, and that he’d been told the house was a bed and breakfast. It isn’t, but Bardem’s character nonetheless invites him to stay the night.  (“This house is too big for the two of us,” he declares.) To the consternation of Lawrence’s character, the two men spend the night drinking and smoking. It turns out that the stranger is a huge fan of the poet’s old work, and the latter is delighted and energized by this revelation.
The next day, a woman (Michelle Pfeiffer) knocks on the door, and explains that she is the doctor’s wife. The poet invites her, too, to stay in the house indefinitely, over his own wife’s strenuous objections. This latest newcomer, after getting high on spiked lemonade, pries unpleasantly: That’s quite an age difference between you and your husband. Why aren’t you pregnant? Are you doing your part in the bedroom? If this all seems a bit rude, trust me when I say that these impositions are nothing compared to the ones yet to come. (The door chime in this home is certainly the most ominous since Tony Soprano caught a bullet at Holsten’s ice cream parlor.) Yet the poet seems to thrive on this accumulating attention, despite the escalating shock and dismay of his devoted wife.
It would be wrong to say more about the plot of mother! except to note that what begins as a quietly bucolic fable—albeit one in which menace looms—gradually spins out into a phantasmagoric horror show, stuffed to the seams with allegory. Why do the walls of the house beat like a heart when Lawrence’s character lays her hands on them? What’s in the golden elixir that she takes for her dizzy spells? Did something shriek and flee down the drain when she plunged that clogged toilet bowl? Why is her husband so obsessed with the mysterious crystal he keeps locked away in his study?
For its first half or more, I expected mother! to be a gothic nightmare in the manner of Poe or Chambers or Lovecraft, with healthy dollops of Kafka and Rosemary’s Baby thrown in for good measure. (I was hoping for the kind of movie that Guillermo del Toro’s Crimson Peak aimed for but ultimately missed.) But Aronofsky’s ambitions are far larger and stranger, even by the standards of such previous head trips as Black Swan and Noah. This is a film of fierce and idiosyncratic intensity, a metaphor for subjects both vast and banal: on the one hand, gender roles, creativity, birth, and (as Aronofsky himself has attested) global warming; on the other, the symbiotic interplay between fandom and celebrity. Biblical allusions are woven throughout—Cain and Abel, a flood that resets the world, the birth of Christ—and the story is essentially told in two separate chapters that might as well be called testaments.
There’s a strong sense, too, of winking self-critique on Aronofsky’s part. Bardem’s emphatically male artist heaps indignity after indignity upon his wife in his craving for more fame, more love, more attention. It is, at a fictive remove, pretty much what Aronofsky does to his lead actress.
And if not for another bravura performance by that lead actress, the film might easily have collapsed under the weight of its own pretensions. Bardem and the rest of the cast are strong, but it is Lawrence’s groundedness and humanity that tether her director’s wilder fancies. It helps, too, that Aronofsky (who also wrote the screenplay) injects frequent doses of black humor into the proceedings. He never loses sight of the fact that, philosophical trappings aside, this is at its core a movie about the Worst House Guests Ever.
In the end, mother! is a film certain to be revered by some and reviled by others. And while I’d place myself mostly in the former camp, plenty of reasonable people will find themselves in the latter. This is a demanding film, and there is one grisly (though in no way gratuitous) twist near the end that will test the endurance even of those who appreciated what came before. So be forewarned: Aronofsky has made precisely the movie he set out to make. But it may very well not be the movie for you.


The category of literature known as climate fiction—“cli-fi,” as it’s known—has gotten quite crowded in recent years. Even just in the past six months, there’s been Paul Kingsnorth’s Beast, which remains hopeful about impending disaster; Lesley Nneka Arimah’s short story “What It Means When a Man Falls From the Sky,” which tackles both ecological concerns and the refugee crisis; and Ashley Shelby’s South Pole Station, which takes on climate-change denial. Into this busy field enters Maja Lunde’s novel The History of Bees. Lunde, a writer of children’s and young-adult books, pieces together a tale that makes the long-term effects of climate change the backdrop for a set of stories about familial relationships, love, and loss.
Following a simple premise—what would happen if bees disappeared?—Lunde’s novel, originally released in Norwegian in 2015, jumps back and forth, across time, between the stories of three beekeepers. The term, it should be noted, is used loosely: There’s William, a British biologist in the mid-1800s; George, a farmer in the contemporary Midwest; and Tao, a young Chinese mother in a bee-less 2098 who spends hours performing manual labor in the fields to make up for the lack of apiformes. All three are dealing with personal problems brought about by the existence—or lack—of bees in their life. But the novel smartly relies limitedly on its ecological-disaster framework and instead gains its best footing in the quiet and intimate relationships it depicts between its characters. At times, it’s easy to forget you’re reading a novel exploring the consequences of a species extinction—instead, you’ve become invested in the lives of the people whose stories it follows.
Beast Celebrates a Man's Abrupt Return to Nature
This family-drama quality stems from the fact that much of the book takes place before the Collapse, an ambiguous event that occurred over several decades, led to the obliteration of bees, and has greatly depleted the resources they help produce (crops, animal feed, and, in turn, a number of animals). Tao’s plotline is the only one that occurs completely in the post-Collapse world, one in which China’s citizens are forced to hand-pollinate trees, due to the country’s early use of pesticides. “It had paid off to be the ones who polluted the most,” Tao thinks to herself. “We were a pioneer nation in pollution and so we became a pioneer nation in pollination. A paradox had saved us.”
Tao’s story, which opens the novel, is easily the most captivating. It’s also the most urgent, because it takes place after, not before, global disaster. In addition to the stress and exhaustion brought about by her grueling work outdoors, Tao struggles to create a life for her 3-year-old son Wei-Wen, and her constant attempts to provide him the best possible education exasperate her husband Kuan, straining their relationship. When Wei-Wen mysteriously disappears, it pushes Tao and Kuan further apart. Lunde places you in Tao’s head and forces you to feel the emptiness around her:
This thing that was between us had grown to be insurmountably large. … It became almost unbearable to be in the same room. He stirred up the same thoughts again and again. The same two words. My fault, my fault, my fault.
Tao becomes so caught up in blaming herself for her son’s disappearance that she withdraws from those around her. Initially provoked by the ecological disaster, the void she feels deepens because of her lack of connectedness to those around her, and because of her belief that she alone can solve all of the problems—whether minute and personal or huge and systemic—that exist in her world.
If most of Tao’s storyline follows her attempts to discover her missing son, George’s and William’s more closely trace their irascible connections with their children. The difficulty with which the two men attempt to relate to their kids and their kids’ developing hobbies mirrors the trouble they have grasping the realities of a changing world. George, living during the beginning days of the Collapse in the United States, struggles to maintain his bees as he rejects new farming techniques meant to streamline the process of beekeeping. He’s disappointed in his son Tom, who’s recently gone off to college and seems wholly disinterested in his father’s profession, and much more drawn to pursuing a Ph.D. in writing.
George’s decided unlikability—he’s oblivious to his son’s desires and puts himself above everyone else—is clearly intentional. With his rigid self-centeredness, he serves as a foil for the bees, which are both the novel’s primary symbol and its binding narrative force. In addition to being an integral part of keeping the environment in order, “each tiny insect was subordinate to the greater whole,” as William points out early in the novel, sacrificing an individual identity for collective wellbeing. George is the complete opposite. If his verve for beekeeping drives his life, it also results in the downfall of his relationships. Lunde, in creating this unbearably stubborn character, suggests the tricky balancing act between human self-interest and sacrifice, and shows how parents can sometimes be the ones who struggle with this tension most of all.
The third storyline, William’s, works as a combination of the other two, mingling the sympathy readers may feel for Tao with the contempt they might feel for George. When first introduced, William is immobilized in bed by an overwhelming depression brought about by his lack of scientific achievement. A renewed sense of passion—both for his family and his work—becomes the driving force behind the scientist’s return to life. But, his fixations come at a cost: Determined to make new strides in the world of mid-19th century beekeeping, he becomes blind to those around him. His egocentrism and need for recognition don’t allow him to realize that “a single person’s life, … thoughts, fears, and dreams meant nothing” if they don’t “apply to us all.”
William’s inability to comprehend the communal nature of life, a quality each character shares in some way, is central to the novel’s broader point—that self-interest alone can result in both personal destruction and larger catastrophes that affect those outside of one’s immediate orbit. The book does, however, leave open the possibility of a way of life that values the collective over the individual, as bees do from the day they are born to the day they die.  
At times, the moralizing about the environment and humans’ role in global warming can come across a bit heavy-handedly. But increasing awareness of the earth’s fraught future, in the end, is not the main thing the novel is trying to do. Instead, it wants you to consider what it is you feel deeply about—whether that’s achieving fame, standing by traditions, or protecting your family—and then consider whether you would sacrifice those things for the greater good.


When the comic-book series Monstress introduces its haunted heroine, she has the look of someone just barely surviving. Maika Halfwolf is naked, missing part of an arm, wearing a metal collar, and being sold at a slave auction—a casualty in a bloody conflict between humans and Arcanics, a race of magical creatures. Of course, Maika is more than she seems. An Arcanic who looks human, she’s enraged by her mother’s death, her missing memories, and the atrocities she’s suffered. There’s also a strange, deadly power taking root in her body and mind—one she can neither understand nor control.
Written by Marjorie Liu and illustrated by Sana Takeda for Image Comics, Monstress is a sprawling epic fantasy that drops readers into the middle of a magic-filled alternate history. Described as a kind of “matriarchal Asia,” Maika’s universe is wracked by a race war and inhabited by violent witch-nuns, vicious deities, and innocent civilians—all of which is brought to life by Takeda’s exquisite manga-style, Art Deco–inspired art. Liu doesn’t ease her audience’s arrival into this intricately designed world by defining new terms or supplying a linear history of Maika’s life (the scale and complexity of the worldbuilding has earned Monstress comparisons to George R. R. Martin’s A Song of Ice and Fire books). Still, Liu and Takeda’s series differs from most genre fare, comics or otherwise, in at least one key way: There are almost no men or white characters.
The Eisner Award-nominated series is the high point thus far of Liu’s own rather unusual career path. In her mid-20s, Liu had graduated from law school and was working at a firm when the sale of her first book convinced her to switch careers. She churned out romance and fantasy novels for years before getting her first gig to write a comic for Marvel, somewhat to her surprise. “It was crazy enough to desire being a novelist,” Liu told me. “I enjoyed reading comics, but it never occurred to me to actually write them until years later.”
After a stint at Marvel working on series such as NYX, X-23, and Astonishing X-Men, Liu took a serious break before reuniting with a former colleague, Takeda, to start their own ambitious series together. Hailed when its first issue came out in 2015, Monstress saw its second volume published this summer. (While the next issue, #13, was originally slated for a fall release, it’s now being pushed until January because of how big the new story arc is.) For The Atlantic’s series on the business of creativity, I spoke with Liu about giving up a law career, working for Marvel, why she quit writing novels, and the decision to make women the stars of Monstress. Our conversation has been edited for length and clarity.
Cruz: Since you got your start writing novels, what was the learning curve like when you did your first comic?
Liu: I realized I was thinking about fiction two-dimensionally. When I’m writing comics, I’m also visualizing how the story will look on the page—not even always art-wise, but panel-wise, like how a moment will be enhanced dramatically by simply turning a page and getting a reveal. It requires thinking about story in a way I never had to consider when I was writing prose.
I didn’t have any teachers. I got into comics because I wrote an X-Men novel for Pocket Books, and I introduced myself to the head of recruitment at Marvel. I’d heard through the grapevine they liked the book, so that gave me the courage to go up to them and be like, “Hey, if you ever need a writer, here I am.” But I learned how to write comics through Googling scripts, having read a ton of comics, and getting guidance from my editor at the time, John Barber.
Cruz: What was the editing process like at first?Liu: One of the most significant notes I recall is from when I was writing NYX, which was a Marvel book about these teenage mutants who are living on the streets of New York. And [the character] Kiden, one of her powers is that she can stop time. I remember the editor writing, “This is not a film. So how do you guide an artist when it comes to describing stopped time? Because literally everything is already stopped on the page.” That was a real eye-opener to how this was a very deep medium I was working in.
Ultimately, a comic writer is writing for the artist, and a script will not be read by anyone except whoever is behind the scenes. In the best moments, I think of my scripts as love letters to artists. I want to give them the best story possible so that they will have the best time possible drawing these things. It’s not just their livelihoods; they also invest in your work creatively and emotionally. I love writing novels, but there is something deeply invigorating about the comic-book medium. It’s not just the kinds of stories we’re able to tell, but it’s also the relationships that are built and the collaborative force that generates between you and your whole team when things are going right.
Cruz: What has your partnership with Sana Takeda been like?
Liu: Early on in X-23, we needed a fill-in artist for a couple of pages. Sana came on and only drew two or three pages, but they really stuck with me. Later when we needed a new artist, I specifically requested her. It was a wonderful process; it felt like she was reading my mind. Eventually, as it happens with all books at Marvel, the series ended, but I never forgot what a great experience it was to work with her. So two or three years later, I was in Japan [where Takeda lives], I looked her up and we had lunch, and I said, “Hey would you ever want to work together again?,” and she was like, “Sure, sounds great!”
Working on Monstress has been a very, very different experience than when we were working on X-23, and not only because that was a work-for-hire book. Both of us, in those years apart, went through our own journeys of growth, and when we came back together, we were in very different places.
Cruz: What do you mean by that?
Liu: How do I put this ... while I was working on X-23, I was dealing with a lot of depression. I was feeling really burned out as an artist, as a novelist specifically. I was really unhappy, and I felt really guilty for being unhappy. I was writing for a living, I was living a dream. So why in the world was I so unhappy?
Writing is very isolating, and I didn’t have a lot of balance in my life. There was always a reason for me not to be out in the world, because I could just say, “I have a deadline.” For someone who is already sort of shy and occasionally socially phobic, that was a very deadly trap to fall into. So I woke up one day and realized, “If I’m not careful, this is going to be my life forever until I die, and I’m going to be profoundly alone.” I told myself, “I can’t do this anymore. My writing does not matter more than my life.”
The Invisible Artists Behind Your Favorite Comics
I had to make certain decisions. I mostly stopped writing novels, but I kept writing comics because A) I needed money, but also B) I still enjoyed it. Writing comics wasn’t draining me. Between X-23 and Monstress, I underwent this huge life change where I moved, I quit writing novels, and I focused on what I wanted for my art and from life. Now, when I look back on who I was then and who I am now—it’s not that I’m unrecognizable. But there are days when it feels close to that.
Sana had gone through a similar journey, but in the opposite direction. After X-23, she couldn’t get work at Marvel or DC. They basically told her that her style was “too manga.” There was no room for her. So she started doing other things: designing, working for a gaming company, teaching. She thought, maybe, she wouldn’t ever do comics again.
Without those years of growth, Monstress would not be the book it is today. If you look at Sana’s art in X-23 versus the art in Monstress, chances are good you’d think they were done by two different people. Sana wanted to push herself. I don’t know many artists who could change so radically even in just a couple of years. It wasn’t like a leap forward, it was more like a leap sideways, going from one incredible style to another.
Cruz: What is the process of making the newest issue of Monstress like?
Liu: I wrote an outline for this arc, and I broke that down into six issues. I sent the outline to our editor, Jennifer Smith, who sent the outline to Sana, and everyone made notes and sent them back to me. Then I started writing scripts. And it’s a long script: Issue #13 won’t be coming out now until January. This is an oversized issue, and we wanted to build enough time to have more oversized issues in this next arc because it’s a lot of story. The script goes through my editor, who makes her notes, then I send it to Sana, who gets it translated [into Japanese]. She’ll send me character designs, layouts, and background scenery art, just to see if our vision is matching up for how the world looks. But I leave her alone once she starts drawing.
Cruz: What was it like going from writing big comics based on famous properties to creating something that’s entirely your own?
Liu: Oh, it’s scary! Writing for Marvel was a tremendous amount of fun, but it could be frustrating. Because you’re still working for a corporation, and at the end of the day, you don’t own anything you write. I would invest myself in these characters and sometimes, without much warning, be told the book is ending. Going into these books, you always tell yourself, “Don’t get too attached.” But sometimes the only way to write these characters is to get really attached.
Now, writing for Monstress on the other hand. It was funny, because I thought I knew how to write comics; I’d been writing at Marvel for so many years. It was so much harder than I expected, because I’d spent the previous years playing in someone else’s sandbox. I was writing someone else’s characters, writing in a world that was much like our own. Monstress is so much bigger and complex. So when I started writing it, and I was like, “Oh shit, I’m in trouble.” I had to step back and teach myself all over again how to write comics. Because writing a huge epic fantasy requires way more organization, worldbuilding, and character.
There’s a reason why the first issue of Monstress was triple-sized. Everything that needed to go into that first issue couldn’t be done in 20 pages; it had to be done in 70. You can get a sense of the difficulty I was facing, telling this huge story when technically you’re limited to a very small amount of space. Every panel has to count. It took me a really long time to get it right—about seven to eight months of constant hard work. But once I got the first arc and that first issue hammered out, it was like, “I can breathe now.”
Cruz: How has the way you think about money changed over the course of your career?
Liu: Money is always a concern. Part of the reason why my folks—why any immigrant family—wants their kids to go into law or medicine is because there’s the promise of reliable work. That’s a powerful idea that got hammered into my head growing up: Be this thing or else you’ll starve.
So to walk away from practicing law after I sold my first novel, that was tough. My family was happy for me, but there was also pressure because of the uncertainty. I had to do a lot of soul-searching, though at the end of the day, there was no way I was not going to write novels after selling that first one. The choice I had to make was whether to write full-time or write part-time and practice law. The catch is that I got a four-book contract with that first novel. I made a gamble and told myself that if I write two to three novels a year, then I can hopefully build my career faster than if I’m writing part-time and practicing law.
But I was super poor for those first few years. I lived on the family farm [in Indiana] so I wouldn’t have to pay rent, and I made barely anything at first. Ninety-nine percent of writers can’t live off their earnings alone; they need a day job or a spouse or family who’s willing to support them. Part of why writing comics was so attractive was that it was a regular paycheck. I wrote one to two comic-book issues a month, which meant being paid every month as opposed to just two or three times a year for novels.
But back to your original question: The way I think about money hasn’t really changed at all, in the sense that being an artist of any kind is a perilous endeavor financially. There will be months or years when everything is going great, and just as quickly that can dry up without much rhyme or reason. But I tell myself the same is true for any career. How many lawyers do I know who can’t get work practicing law? A lot. So I’d rather take my chances with a pen in my hand telling stories.
Cruz: When writing Monstress, how did you decide to make anger Maika’s defining emotion?
Liu: Female rage is not really permitted in real life. Angry women are called bitches, too emotional, hysterical, whereas male rage is often portrayed as heroic, righteous, intelligent. In Monstress, Arcanics wear collars around their necks to keep them from exercising their full selves. And I think one of the collars around the necks of women is society’s views about female rage. Which isn’t to say anger is necessarily a force for good. Rage can be energizing and sustaining, but it’s ultimately problematic if it doesn’t lead you to a deeper exploration of the source.
I’d argue the other defining emotion for Maika is grief. There’s a tremendous amount of injustice in her mind that needs to be answered for, and anger sustains her. Put another way, her anger is revolutionary. But like most revolutionary impulses, the consequences on the individual tend to be terrible. Women need rage to survive in society, but female rage without a project of emancipation in the long run might not be as rewarding as we want it to be.
Cruz: When I first read Monstress I was struck by how overwhelmingly female it was, and with so many characters of color. It reminded me of how little people have come to expect on the diversity front in mainstream art, where movies and shows get praise for even the smallest instances of representation.
Liu: Monstress is my response to and a product of my frustration with being bombarded by stories I’m told I should be grateful for. Like when we see TV shows where there are like a million white people and one Chinese woman, if we’re lucky. It’s a lie of white supremacy—the visual lie that tells us our heroes, our stories, our love lives, and everything that we aspire to, everything that is heroic and romantic, is white. Being surrounded by that, I think, really deforms the imagination, and it deforms the heart as well.
I grew up loving epic fantasies, and almost all of them were written by white men. With white, mostly male, casts. When you’re a kid, you don’t always think about what that means, but you do as you get older. I was deeply immersed in Chinese culture in my community and my family growing up, so how come when I was writing fiction as a kid, all my stories were about white people? Even though my personal life was incredibly diverse, my imaginary life was very white.
Monstress was my response to that. When it comes to diversity, people act like, “Oh, we can’t do this.” Bullshit! The easiest thing in the world is to say, “Every single person in this book is going to be a person of color.”
When I look at Hollywood, I don’t think it even occurs to the people in charge that they can make these choices. I talk a lot about the importance of structural diversity over the optics of diversity. Optics are fine. But without real structural diversity behind the scenes, ultimately the optics either won’t last or they’ll replicate the same system they’re coming out of. When I mentor young writers of color, I say we need more creators of color, more writers of color, and more women in order to see lasting change.


The finale of the first season of Pamela Adlon’s FX dramedy Better Things ended with Sam (Adlon) and her daughters driving around in the family minivan, the girls gazing out the window while Duke (Olivia Edward), the youngest, squeezed her mother’s hand. The track playing in the car was Alice Cooper’s “Only Women Bleed,” and all three of Sam’s kids sang along. It was a fitting ending for a debut series that had concerned itself singly with what women and girls go through, filtered through Adlon’s own experiences as a single mother and an actress. Sometimes it was funny (Sam memorably threw a teenage co-star out of her car after he tried to show her his penis, adding as a mom-like afterthought, “You can keep the jacket!”). Sometimes it was sad. But the show, dedicated to Adlon’s three daughters in real life, ended with acceptance. As Sam put it while addressing a female empowerment seminar at her daughter’s school, women have one thing in common: “We all bleed and we all suffer.”
If Better Things were just a comedy loosely based on Adlon’s life in Hollywood after 40, like a welcome heir to the highly underrated ’90s sitcom Cybill, it would still be spectacular, simply because Adlon is so sharp and so funny. But its ability to take a more wrenching look at womanhood made it one of the best and most distinctive shows of 2016. The second season, which debuts on FX Thursday, is somehow even better, directed in its entirety by Adlon, and written with Louis C.K., who co-created it. Dreamier and more wistful in style but with the same caustic sense of humor, the show takes more risks with structure and technique. Despite the fact that the writing in Better Things is a real gift—“Will you girls stop stealing candles for crying in the tub?” Sam pleads during an electrical outage—some of the most potent scenes are wordless altogether, as if to emphasize how many different things the show can master.
The Corner of Hollywood and Motherhood
Season 1 introduced Sam Fox, her eccentric British mother, Phil (Celia Imrie), and her daughters: Max (Mikey Madison), Frankie (Hannah Alligood), and Duke (Olivia Edward). (That all five characters have male names seems intentional.) Sam, like Adlon, is a former child actress who’s found reliable work later in her career as a voiceover artist (Adlon voiced the character of Bobby on King of the Hill for 13 seasons). Her ex-husband pops up sporadically but is mostly out the picture; Sam has an off/on thing with a married ex (Mather Zickel) that involves self-loathing and sexts that she dashes off between plunging the toilet and giving the dog eye drops. Max, the eldest, is more open with her mother about sex and drugs than Sam would like (“These things are normal but you should be ashamed of them,” Sam explains). Duke, the baby, is doted on by everyone. Frankie, the funniest one, got sent home from school in the season finale for using the boy’s bathroom; she assured her mother it wasn’t because she was identifying as one, but Sam seemed to accept at the end that her daughter was probably transgender.
In the seven episodes of Season 2 that have been released to critics, this storyline has been largely left alone, with Adlon telling a panel that she and her daughter went through similar phases, implying Frankie will figure things out at her own pace. The first two episodes feature Sam trying to manage not just her own sex life but her daughter’s, after 16-year-old Max starts dating Arturo, a louche, swaggering 36-year-old Spaniard. Adlon plays Sam’s response to this development as a kind of paralysis—she’s intuitive enough to know that freaking out will only drive Max away, but she’s also viscerally pained by seeing her eldest child already vulnerable to the worst schools of male bullshit artistry.
A recurring theme in the second season is this constant tension between weakness and strength, and assessing which one is more important at any given time. Teaching an acting class, Sam critiques two comedians performing a scene for exuding too much confidence. “You’re playing a person in this scene,” she explains. “People are weak. They’re not cool and fast.” The defining characteristic of her approach to relationships, though, is a desire for power—she dates a terrible Jeremy Corbyn-lookalike in the second episode so she doesn’t have to feel anything, and then is deeply unnerved when she meets someone who seems perfect for her. “I don’t know how to do this,” she says. “I don’t know where this goes. I’ve got no place to put it.”
Unlike the first season, which employed a roster of guest stars including Lenny Kravitz, David Duchovny, Julie Bowen, and Bradley Whitford, the second focuses on its primary cast members. A more prominent role is given to music, which never fails to convey both mood and a sense of humor (the closing track to the Arturo episode includes the lyrics, “Daughter, leave those boys alone”). Adlon’s direction is deft, especially considering she’s in virtually every scene. After a climactic conversation with Max, Sam briefly lets her hand linger on Max’s closed bedroom door—a gesture that conveys all the maternal love that Sam knows better than to try and vocalize. In one episode, after she meets a man in a bar, she falls into a kind of reverie remembering the moment, where his words are muted to a quiet hum. In another, she experiences a blissful beach day with her daughters but whether the scene is real or imagined is left ambiguous.
The series gets into more poignant emotional territory with a storyline involving the increasing physical and mental fragility of Phil, Sam’s mother. Imrie, a brilliant English comic actress, gets to convey Phil’s poisonous rage at sensing her own decline, as well as rare moments of connection with her daughter, whom she’s passive-aggressively sniped at for years. It’s to the credit of Louis C.K., who wrote the fifth episode, “Phil,” that the subject is so honestly handled. “You get used to things being hard where you can work to make them better,” Sam’s friend Tressa (Rebecca Metz) tells her about her own father’s deterioriation. “But this isn’t that. There’s no good end to this. It doesn’t get better. Your mother is gonna get worse and worse and then she’ll be gone.”
After this storyline, though, comes “Eulogy,” one of the most spectacular TV episodes in recent memory. The first half of it deals with Sam’s career—how tedious and stupid acting can be, and what it means to love it and try and be good at it anyway. The second tracks her attempts to get her daughters to recognize that her job is important. For once, Sam gets what she wants, in a funny, dark, and fiercely moving conclusion that captures the weird genius of her parenting style and the infrequent joy of single motherhood. The episode distills all the things that make Better Things so good: the acknowledgment that life, for women, is hard and baffling and humiliating and painful, and that it can also—fleetingly—be perfect.


There’s an anecdote Hillary Clinton tells about the frenzied run-up to the 2016 U.S. presidential election. She was in Scranton, Pennsylvania, campaigning with Joe Biden in his swing-state-set hometown. She noticed a woman staring at her—with more intensity than even Hillary Clinton is used to being stared at by members of the public. The woman finally approached her. She’d been gazing at Clinton, she explained, out of confusion. “I’d read you’d gained 130 pounds!”
It was a Kinsley gaffe whose truth was revealed not by the politician, but about her: Many people will believe pretty much anything about the former first lady/senator/secretary of state/presidential candidate. In her, the demands of American celebrity and the dynamics of American politics have mingled in an extremely targeted form of magical thinking. Whatever Hillary Clinton might do, a hefty chunk of people will assume its nefariousness. Whatever she might say, a significant portion of the populace will simply assume she is lying: Lady Macbeth, in the age of alternative facts. Is her marriage a sham? Is she sick with a chronic disease? Did she kill Vince Foster? Is she, just under those perfectly pressed pantsuits, hiding the scales of a reptile?
“I’m a Rorschach test,” Clinton said of herself, during the 2008 presidential primaries, and she was correct. The trouble, for all involved, is that she is also a human, with the moral and emotional freight the designation implies. Clinton may be a vessel for this moment’s internet-fueled iteration of the paranoid style; she feels them, though, those accusations flung in her direction. Once, when Clinton was the first lady, a staffer read aloud from a magazine story that repeated one of the moment’s trendy rumors: that Hillary had had sex with a colleague. Hearing it, the Washington Post’s Marc Fisher reported—or, rather, mishearing it—“Clinton’s eyes filled with tears.” She asked the staffer, “It really says I had sex with a collie?”
Every politician’s story will fuse the mundane and the mythic. Each will involve a strategic blend of fact and fiction. Each will rely on performances that a dubious and tenacious public will attempt to decode. Clinton’s story, however, has involved such things in decidedly disproportionate amounts. This is one of the themes of What Happened, the new book Clinton released on Tuesday.
Set in the negative space of a presidency that wasn’t, the book is a political memoir in the tritest traditions of the genre. Its chapters include titles like “Perseverance,” “Grit and Gratitude,” and “Making History.” It offers inspirational quotes from Rilke, various Roosevelts, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Hamilton. But What Happened—its blunt title belies its tone—is also casually conversational. It is personal. It is a book fit for a time in which celebrity demands intimacy, and in which even one of politics’ most common works of poetry—the memoir—will revel in the idle revelations of prose. It marks a transition for Clinton; it also suggests much broader transformations at play in American politics and American life. “In the past,” Clinton writes, “for reasons I try to explain, I’ve often felt I had to be careful in public, like I was up on a wire without a net. Now I’m letting my guard down.”
* * *
“There are times when all I want to do is scream into a pillow.”
“I knew the proper and respectful thing to do was to keep quiet and take it all with grace, but inside I was fuming.”
“I answered a ton of emails; I returned phone calls. It hurt. There’s a reason people isolate themselves when they’re suffering.”
Suffering is not a word one would likely expect to read in a campaign memoir, particularly one written by one of America’s foremost practitioners of classic Clintonian pragmatism. There it is, though, along with “pain” and “anger” and “with my heart still aching,” in What Happened. There is the country’s almost-president, talking not just of her dreams for the American future, but also of the anger she bears toward it. There she is, confiding to her readers about her fears. And her frustrations. And her love of Pepperidge Farm goldfish crackers (a generous serving of which, she notes, has “only 150 calories—not bad!”).
What Happened, whose title of course requires no further predicate, occasionally engages in blame, what-happened-wise: of Clinton herself, of Donald Trump, of Bernie Sanders, of James Comey, of Vladimir Putin, of the American media, of many more. It is occasionally dishy, as per the commercial demands of most such post-campaign books (at one point, Clinton refers to Jason Chaffetz as “the then-Utah Congressman and wannabe Javert”). It also, however, takes the performative authenticity so common in those works—the focus-group-approved anecdotes, the personality-by-committee—and attempts to subvert it. “Reading the news every morning was like ripping off a scab,” Clinton writes, and this is probably another thing you would not be expecting to read in a campaign memoir.
One of the ideas that has solidified around Clinton in recent years—an outgrowth of a media environment that once allowed her to believe that a magazine had accused her of bestiality—is that there are essentially two of her, contradicting each other: the persona versus the person, the public figure (controlled, cautious, calculating) versus the private one (warm, witty, capable of holding strong opinions about snack foods). “What’s remarkable,” Henry Louis Gates wrote of the then-first lady, in 1996, “isn’t that she can be funny, spontaneous, and mischievous, and has a loud, throaty laugh; what’s remarkable is the extent to which she has sequestered her personality from the media.” It’s a narrative that grew as Clinton twice sought, and twice lost, the American presidency. In 2016, the writer Rebecca Traister diagnosed the matter as “Hillary Clinton versus Herself.” The journalist Ezra Klein noted that “the Clinton America sees isn’t the Clinton colleagues know.” He named the disconnect “the gap.”
You could read What Happened as a post-facto attempt to bridge that distance: Here are 494 pages of concessional humanity, full of the kind of confessional revelations most commonly associated with the first-person industrial complex. Clinton’s earlier memoirs, Living History and Hard Choices, often embraced the prosaic prose of the big tent (“In this world and the world of tomorrow, we must go forward together or not at all,” “One thing that has never been a hard choice for me is serving our country. It has been the greatest honor of my life”); What Happened, which rehashes some of the former works’ aphorisms and insights, does, too. More often, though, it relies on simpler, and more intimate, exposition. It is written in the first person, but often slides into the second. It is cautiously diaristic.
In the book, Clinton discusses the wounds not just of November 2016, but of insults accumulated within a system so often baffled by women who seek power. (“For the record, it hurts to be torn apart,” she writes. “It may seem like it doesn’t bother me to be called terrible names or have my looks mocked viciously, but it does”). She discusses the partially unexpected joy Chelsea’s arrival brought her when she was born in 1980, noting that “getting pregnant was not easy for me.” The woman so often denigrated as “shrill” shares how she once enlisted the help of a linguistics expert to help her make her speeches more appealing to audiences. And how once, in college, she went on a blind date with a man “who wouldn’t take repeated nos for an answer,” and whom, finally, she had to slap to rebuff. (“But he did back off,” she notes, “and I went to bed that night shaken but not traumatized.”)
There is a certain circularity to such revelations: In early 2009, just before the New Hampshire primary, Clinton won awkward plaudits from media outlets when, answering a question about how she kept going during the grueling campaign—“I mean, as a woman, I know how hard it is to get out of the house and get ready,” the voter had said, going on to ask, “Who does your hair?”—the candidate teared up. Just a little. But still. While Clinton’s response had mostly elided the woman’s question (she had joked about how she “has help,” hair-wise, and then explained that she did the work of campaigning because the issues are both “personal” for her and “about all of us together”), it was the tears, to the press, that were the salient point. They were evidence of “the gap” in action, answers to the unsolicited advice pundits had been offering Hillary for decades—thoughts on how she might more effectively accomplish the task of her own self-humanization. “Clinton Finds Emotion on the Trail,” CBS put it. “Question draws out a usually guarded Clinton,” the Los Angeles Times had it. The Washington Post announced that it had detected “A Chink in the Steely Façade of Hillary Clinton.”
Others saw something else. “There was a whiff of Nixonian self-pity about her choking up,” The New York Times’s Maureen Dowd wrote, in an op-ed asking, “Can Hillary Cry Her Way Back to the White House?” The columnist shared her theory that “what was moving her so deeply was her recognition that the country was failing to grasp how much it needs her”—and that “in a weirdly narcissistic way, she was crying for us.”
Eight years later, in What Happened, Clinton gets the last say, by way of a decidedly different answer to the “who does your hair?” question. She talks in detail about her “glam squad.” She name-checks her (two) hairstylists and her makeup artist (“recommended to me by Vogue’s Anna Wintour after she saw me at an event and knew I needed help”). As before, though, she puts the routine into a political context. “I’ve never gotten used to how much effort it takes just to be a woman in the public eye,” Clinton notes, adding, “I once calculated how many hours I spent having my hair and makeup done during the campaign. It came to about 600 hours, or 25 days! I was so shocked, I checked the math twice.”
There are several exclamation marks in What Happened. There is also much evidence of the wry humor those who know her—those on the “person” side of the gap—tend to emphasize: “I doubt that many people reading this will ever lose a presidential election,” she acknowledges, adding, “(Although maybe some have: Hi Al, hi John, hi Mitt, hope you’re well).” She refers to the period after November 8 as “that horrible, no good, very bad time.” She talks about eating over-refrigerated Quest bars on the campaign plane—and about the fact that warming them up enough to make them edible often required sitting on them, “with as much dignity as one can muster at such a moment.” Clinton begins the chapter titled “Showing Up” with an epigraphic observation: “That which does not kill us makes us stronger.” She attributes the line to “Friedrich Nietzsche (and Kelly Clarkson).”
Mostly, though, Clinton shares. She emphasizes the relatable smallness of her post-election life, the mundanity of it, the casual humanity of it. After she delivered her concession speech on November 9, she writes, she went home to Chappaqua and put on yoga pants and a fleece. She hiked in the woods, with Bill and their dogs. She drank lots of Chardonnay. She organized her closets and FaceTimed with her grandkids and watched Blue Bloods and Downton Abbey (she likes the latter show because it reminds her of a night she spent in Buckingham Palace, when she was the secretary of state). She finished Elena Ferrante’s Neapolitan novels. She prayed. (“I can almost see the cynics rolling their eyes,” she notes of that last one.)
And also: She got really sad. She got really angry. “I didn’t go public with my feelings,” she notes; “I let them out in private. When I heard that Donald Trump settled a fraud suit against his Trump University for $25 million, I yelled at the television. When I read the news that he filled his team with Wall Street bankers after relentlessly accusing me of being their stooge, I nearly threw the remote control at the wall.”
She didn’t go public then; she is going public, of course, now. And in some ways that’s its own kind of concession. Hillary Clinton is at this point pretty much a metonym for gendered double standards, and one of the paradoxes of her long career in politics has mirrored one of the paradoxes of sexism itself: It can be unclear whether something is happening because of gender or because of something else. The media coverage of Clinton often carries this whiff of uncertainty: Is she treated the way she is because she is a politician—a performer, a celebrity, a body that seeks to rise above the body politic—or because she is a woman?
What is clear is that the media’s ongoing obsession with her emotions is tinged with sexism. (Remember when, the morning of her concession speech, CNN pundits offered a thorough analysis of the feels she must surely have been experiencing as she delivered her address?) And with What Happened, Clinton is cannily feeding the beast. Much of the coverage of the book, in the run-up to its release, took delight in dismissing it as an “anguished, angry memoir,” as Clinton reveling in the “woe is me.” Many assumed that Clinton would use the book as a way to engage in our well-established rituals of public apology, the stuff of rehabilitation and reconciliation and agreements to appear on Dancing With the Stars. But Clinton, ultimately, is doing in the book what the American media have for so long done to her, ostensibly on her behalf: She is commercializing her humanity. She is selling her emotions, for what will likely be a tidy profit. As the book’s jacket promises, “This is her most personal memoir yet.”
In all that, What Happened is doing the thing so many women politicians and women citizens have done, recently, in response to a world that refuses to make space for them: It reclaims. It takes the logic of “nasty woman” and “nevertheless, she persisted” and “reclaiming my time” and makes it literary. In the book, the woman who has for decades contended with a media system that demands ever more of her—more emotion, more authenticity, more humanity—is giving that system what it asked for. But she’s doing that on her own terms. For the purposes of selling her own stuff. “I’ll bet you know more about my private life than you do about some of your closest friends,” Clinton points out, in her most personal memoir yet. “You’ve read my emails, for heaven’s sake. What more do you need? What could I do to be ‘more real’? Dance on a table? Swear a blue streak? Break down sobbing? That’s not me.”
And yet now, just a little bit, it is. Here is yet one more “me” Clinton is displaying, a self that will be embraced by some and reflexively disbelieved by others. A self that emerged, likely, from some heady fusion of Clinton’s leaked emails and political strategizing and Kim Kardashian and social media and a culture that sees information that confides and confesses as the most honest information of all. What Happened arrives in the year 2017, and also takes its measure: It assumes a new and newly emotional style of political engagement. It acquiesces to a moment in which an author, before explaining how we might move Onward Together, loses her patience with the public meant to do the moving: What more, she asks, not bothering to mask her frustration, do you need?
Clinton’s memoir almost—almost—takes a cue from Donald Trump, whose victory in November emphasized, among so much else, the political power of the unfiltered id. What Happened is in that way one more concession that Hillary Clinton, who ached but who healed, has offered up to the American republic. The book is cannily revelatory. It is savvily emotional. It is a series of controlled explosions. “When I feel wronged,” Clinton confesses, “I get mad.” She adds: “And then I think about how to fight back.”


The most famous moment of pop-culture political protest in recent memory happened at a post-hurricane telethon, with Kanye West using his spot in a 2005 Katrina-victim fundraising effort to tell the nation, “George Bush doesn’t care about black people.”
There was no such memorably inflammatory moment at Tuesday night’s “Hand in Hand” telethon for those affected by hurricanes Harvey and Irma. As is the case with these sorts of affairs, the hour was largely a showcase for supergroup performances (check out George Strait, Chris Stapleton, Miranda Lambert, Lyle Lovett, and Robert Earl Keen closing the show with “Texas”). There was also the surreal sight of dozens of superstars smilingly answering phones: George Clooney and Julia Roberts switching handsets, Nicki Minaj making fans squeal, Justin Bieber mugging in the guise of an ’80s Miami drug-cartel accountant. So far, the event has raised $44 million to be distributed by Comic Relief USA to charities including the Rebuild Texas Fund, Habitat for Humanity, and Save the Children.
But sprinkled in were a few statements that were remarkable in what they show about our divided times. Many viewers may have heard them as anodyne; others likely reacted a bit like Mike Myers did standing next to Kanye West 12 years ago.
Hurricane Harvey’s Public-Health Nightmare
The broadcast began with Stevie Wonder offering an invocation that gradually moved from unifying to confrontational. “We’ve come together today to love on the people who have been devastated by the hurricanes,” Wonder said, warming up for a rendition of “Lean on Me.” “When love goes into action, it preferences no color of skin, no ethnicity, no religious beliefs, no sexual preferences, and no political persuasions. It just loves.”
So far, fairly inarguable. But then: “And anyone who believes that there’s no such thing as global warming must be blind or unintelligent. Lord, save us all.”
In the wide swaths of America where climate change is taken for granted and the latest back-to-back catastrophes that have killed dozens and displaced millions seem more than a spooky coincidence, Wonder’s is not a particularly provocative statement. Other swaths—those who’d just been called blind or unintelligent—obviously felt differently. Write-ups on conservative news sites were almost immediate, with The Daily Caller reporting that the telethon was “getting political” from the start.
(In the clip of the full telethon MTV posted on YouTube, Wonder’s opening comments aren’t included; a representative said the omission is from a glitch that may be repaired soon.)
A pre-taped segment from the Houston native Beyoncé was also notably pointed. Many of her celebrity colleagues used their spotlight moments to call out specific instances of bravery (Selena Gomez was movingly choked up discussing the swept-away Saldivar family) or particular needs (the plight of pets, in Eric McCormack’s case). Beyoncé gave a more big-picture view, connecting Harvey and Irma with other recent distressing developments in the headlines.
“During a time where it’s impossible to watch the news without seeing violence or racism in this country, just when you think it couldn’t possibly get worse, natural disasters take precious life, do massive damage and forever change lives, leaving behind contaminated water, flooded hospitals, schools, and nursing homes,” she said. “Natural disasters don’t discriminate. They don’t see if you’re an immigrant, black or white, Hispanic or Asian, Jewish or Muslim, wealthy or poor. It doesn’t matter if you’re from Third Ward or River Oaks, we’re all in this together. Seeing everyone of different racial, social, and religious backgrounds put their own lives at risk to help each other survive restored my faith in humanity.”
Watch: Beyoncé's heartfelt message on natural disasters & climate change. #HandInHand pic.twitter.com/B0McFh21Dt
She was dressed in radiant white—which, naturally, was the focus of certain coverage more than her words were—but her rhetoric was that of someone feeling drained by current events. Then she picked up on Wonder’s theme of speaking out for the scientific consensus, saying, “The effects of climate change are playing out around the world every day. Just this past week, we’ve seen devastation from the monsoon in India, an 8.1 earthquake in Mexico, and multiple catastrophic hurricanes.” (If the list seems to contain a non sequitur, note that there is evidence seismic activities and climate change may be linked, though it’s hard to claim a connection in the case of this latest quake.)
Messages like Beyoncé’s, whatever their political implications, seemed first intended to strike against complacency by talking about the specific circumstances of this era. Another pop giant with Houston connections, Drake, sent a message more explicitly seeking to interrupt apathy. “These days it seems as one issue is ending, another is beginning” he said. “I know it can be extremely overwhelming. But your attention and your assistance is of extreme importance.”


“I’m much more mature than when you last saw me,” Ilana Wexler says to a former confidante in the third episode of Broad City’s fourth season. I won’t spoil the context of the scene, but Broad City fans will know to assume the line arrives with a jumbo-molar-sized heap of irony. Suffice it to say, Ilana’s supposed newfound maturity does not save her from a predicament involving cocaine, lingerie, and her shouting, “You owe me a doodoo favor, bitch!”
Broad City’s excellently demented chronicle of two New York City slackers continues a rich TV-comedy tradition of following totally inept young urbanites who viewers, for some reason, hold up as generational symbols. And it, like many such shows before it, has a funny relationship to the notion that its characters might “grow up.” Seinfeld mocked the idea of personal improvement and then punished its antiheroes for their stasis. Girls baffled with tiptoe-forward, somersault-backward character arcs, but it still ended up scooting its gals to some state beyond early-20s tetherlessness. Broad City has smirked at cliches of maturity from the start, and any hints of growth in Abbi and Ilana have been corkscrew, mostly cosmetic—nothing to stop them from getting weird.
29 New TV Shows to Watch This Fall
Remember, it was in the series premiere that Ilana groaned to Abbi, “You’re losing your edge, and I wasn’t gonna say anything, but you’re not as fun as you used to be.” If Abbi had indeed lost her edge by then, her “not as fun” phase turned out to be a disgusting hoot anyways, involving shellfish binges, and booze cruises, and poop in boots. Season 2 ended with Ilana’s 23rd birthday, which she marked by setting goals for the coming year: “I want to finish a book—reading, not writing—I want to gradually lower my dosage of anti-depressants, and I want to join Ancestry.com. Oh, and see a mangina from behind.” Season 3’s big dramas, about Abbi dating a coworker and Ilana losing her friend with benefits, were mostly overshadowed by the frenetic two-part finale in which their menstruation-related hijinks on a flight to Israel were mistaken for terrorism.
So: Trust that in Season 4, the Broad City duo does not suddenly discover responsibility and sobriety. What instead happens is that the world inflicts some pain upon them, and the show guffaws at their gonzo squirming. Provocatively, a big source of said pain is plenty familiar to the show’s liberal-leaning viewers: the Donald Trump presidency. The 2016 election is as much a bomb here as it is in American Horror Story: Cult—and like with that show, the focus is less on the new political reality itself than on peoples’ emotional reactions to it. Creators/stars Ilana Glazer and Abbi Jacobson have talked about rewriting the season after the defeat of one of their recent guest stars at the national polls: “It is dark as fuck,” Glazer told The Daily Beast. “It is as dark as the world is today.”

That perhaps counts as overpromising—it wasn’t till a second viewing of the three episodes screened for critics that I really saw what Glazer had been talking about. Trump’s influence makes for an explicit plot point, and there are winks at politics throughout (one episode opens with a brilliant little parable about the haves and have-nots). Much of the season takes place in winter, placing the frequently pit-stained ensemble instead in parka-swathed discomfort. But by and large the show is still defined by extended riffs of surreal whimsy and raunch. You finish each episode giggling about, say, later-in-life circumcision or feminist witchcraft—two plot topics—rather than wallowing in any dark emotions, per se.
But pay close attention to Ilana. Abbi has always been the Eeyore of the duo, and she actually finds herself on the ups—romantically, professionally—early on (it will come as no surprise that she’s not exactly nonchalant in her new relationship). Ilana, too, is meeting life milestones, holding down a stable job that’s earning her a ton of tips (it will come as no surprise that she doesn’t respond to the windfall by investigating her 401k options). Yet there’s a new brittleness, a strain, to her extreme silliness. The manic-pixie-yas-kween shtick has started to seem like a façade for some real anxieties.
Maybe it always was one to some extent. The fourth-season premiere offers a heady formal experiment inspired by the 1998 Gwyneth Paltrow romantic comedy Sliding Doors, flashing back to the day Abbi and Ilana met at a New York City subway station to investigate two alternate realities: one in which they did make the train they’d been rushing toward and one in which they didn’t. What transpires are two day-in-the-life stories typical in their absurdity but also subtly poignant in what they depict about friendship. I shouldn’t say much about these flashbacks, but trust that a cruel twist involving burrito bowls complicates the episode’s premise deliciously.
What I can say is that the Ilana and Abbi of 2011 seem a little different than the ones of today, and not only because they’re listening to slightly dated pop and wearing slightly dated clothes. Abbi’s on the lookout for a bestie much in the way that another show’s version of her mousy-millennial archetype might be on the lookout for a boyfriend. Ilana’s yet to embrace the full glory of her kinky hair. That they’ve progressed since then does show that change is possible in Broad City’s universe.
More importantly, though, the glimpse of the past deepens the characters and foreshadows inner struggles to come. The 2011 Ilana’s obliviousness brought her to the brink of a few personal crises, and the day we see her have without Abbi by her side is a total bummer. The revelation isn’t that a new friend cheered her up—it’s that this happy-go-lucky spirit was ever in need of cheering up at all.


By Heart is a series in which authors share and discuss their all-time favorite passages in literature. See entries from Colum McCann, George Saunders, Emma Donoghue, Michael Chabon, and more.
Jenny Zhang’s story collection Sour Heart begins with something you don’t see often in fiction: a two-page meditation on the logistics of taking “a big dump.” The Zhang family lives in a crumbling building on a particularly drug-ridden block in Bushwick, Brooklyn, where a faulty toilet often forces them to run, clenching their bowels, to the gas station across the street. Too poor to buy a toilet plunger, the Amoco is their humiliating last resort.
It’s an indicative anecdote. Sour Heart often derives its strength from Zhang’s ability to locate humor, pathos, and magic in the kind of mundane, everyday scenarios other writers might skip over entirely—the utter boredom of childhood afternoons, the frantic prickle of a nocturnal skin itch, the grinding daily degradations of poverty.
How Rudyard Kipling Turned His Guilt Into Fiction
In a conversation for this series, Zhang spoke about Roberto Bolaño’s “Dance Card,” a short story that pays tribute to what is overlooked, silenced, and forgotten. It’s an elegy to the neglected Chilean writers and artists who lost their homes, their minds, and sometimes their lives resisting the violent Pinochet regime, installed in a U.S.-backed military coup on September 11, 1973. She explained how the story’s unusual approach helped her learn to foreground minor characters and historical footnotes through irreverence and absurdity—techniques that also help flout the literary establishment’s attempts to idealize, sanitize, and pigeonhole writers who address aspects of the immigrant experience.
Sour Heart features a cast of loosely connected, Chinese American narrators as they strive against destitution toward dignity, and negotiate the fierce, fraught love between child and parent. It’s the first book published by Random House’s new Lenny imprint, selected by the Girls creator Lena Dunham. Jenny Zhang is also the author of the poetry collection Dear Jenny, We Are All Find and essays in Harper’s, The New York Times Magazine, and Rookie. She lives in Brooklyn and spoke to me by phone.
Jenny Zhang: Roberto Bolaño’s story collection Last Evenings on Earth shows you the eye of the storm by focusing on the most far-flung margin, the thing that’s farthest from the center. The book gives a sense of the things that were happening in Latin America during the 1970s, particularly the revolutionary struggles in Chile after the military coup. But though you can feel the impact of the violence, the disappearances, the fear and paranoia that engulfed people at the time, Bolaño rarely addresses the political context head-on. On the big events, he mostly stays silent.
At first, this surprised me. We tend to approach world literature with the historical turning points in mind—wars, revolutions, the things that make it into the newspapers. I came to Last Evenings on Earth expecting this, probably out of my own ignorance of what it meant to be Chilean in the 1970s. Ultimately, though, I found it even more moving and frightening to encounter these desperate characters in their less extraordinary hours. They’re afraid for their lives, but we mostly encounter them on the days when the death squads they’re trying to elude don’t actually show up.
The book is a reminder that the most interesting things in life and literature tend to be the mundane, the banal, the pathetic, the easily overlooked. The final story in the collection, “Dance Card,” is especially an ode to the struggles of minor characters—and a scathing critique of the human impulse to cast certain historical figures as mythic heroes, while forgetting about the rest.
“Dance Card” is presented as a numbered list, which gives it the feeling of a library catalog, or the index at the back of a book, or the collected footnotes to a larger story we never get to read. The unnamed narrator, B, tells his life story in this fascinating way—almost as if he’s writing his autobiography by sharing only what seem like the most minor and insignificant parts of his life.
The first thing we learn about him is that he spent his youth obsessed with Pablo Neruda, Chile’s best-known and best-selling poet, which his mother read to him constantly as a child. But the narrative of B’s life becomes, in many ways, the story of his falling out of love with Neruda. By the end, you feel almost horrified by the suggestion that a single voice could stand in for the experiences of an entire country.
Though the piece grapples with the physically and psychologically violent fallout of a military coup, it’s telling that the central dramatic scene involves not bloodshed but something more everyday: B’s argument with a filmmaker, Alejandro Jodorowsky, about poetry. When Jodorowsky tells B that Nicanor Parra is the greatest Chilean poet, praising him and reciting his works by heart, B argues for Neruda, the artistic father figure he has cherished since childhood. Looking back, B mocks his naive devotion to Neruda:
At that stage I was a highly sensitive young man, as well as being ridiculous and full of myself, and I declared that Chile’s finest poet was, without any doubt, Pablo Neruda. All the rest, I added, are midgets.
B admits later that he’d only read two Neruda collections at that point, and even then had already grown tired of one of them. After making his pathetic case, B leaves the house in tears, forced to recognize the world is so much larger than he knows. The argument seems to change him. A year later, he’s still a Neruda fan, but he starts to read more widely and learns to revere the names of other poets.
Ultimately, the narrator—like so many Bolaño characters—becomes obsessed with what we don’t get to read. He’s spooked by the obscure poets, the forgotten minor figures whose work has been lost or destroyed. The story is filled with brief asides, alluding to writers who died under torture, who died of AIDS or overdoses, who met various inglorious ends. And in light of all these forgotten voices, Neruda’s monolithic stature becomes revolting to him. At the end of the story, he likens him to Ugolino, an Italian count who appears as one of the damned in Dante’s Inferno, a man who stabbed his own nephew to maintain power and was imprisoned with his children who implored him to cannibalize their bodies once they were dead. In the final page, it’s almost as if Neruda’s continued fame parasitically feeds off the suffering younger generation:
66. Do we have to come back to Neruda as we do to the Cross, on bleeding knees, with punctured lungs and eyes full of tears? 67. When our names no longer mean a thing, his will go on shining, his will go on soaring over an imaginary domain called Chilean Literature. 68. By then all poets will live in artistic communities called jails or asylums. 69. Our imaginary home, the home we share.
B comes to feel there’s just too many examples of people who died without pity, who died without forgiveness, without redemption, to really believe that every human gets the destiny they deserve—or that there’s even such a thing as deservedness, especially in art. He’s tormented by the thought that Neruda’s name will “go on shining,” long after the names of his fallen contemporaries “no longer mean a thing.” Bogged down by all these tiny stories of the forgotten poets, the wretched ones, he can no longer believe in what he originally wanted: a leader, a meaningful leader.
We seem to need our poets and writers to be more than that—we’re not satisfied with just them being mere artists. But “Dance Card” reminds us that each time you amplify one voice, you silence another. I think that’s one reason why, in this story, Bolaño takes such pains to torpedo his own myth. Bolaño was very aware of how easy it was for it him to become a symbol, how easy it would be to elevate him into an archetypal Latin American writer, and this collection actively tries to ward off future attempts to do that.
Throughout Last Evenings on Earth, Bolaño is ambiguous and contradictory about his own autobiography. In all the stories, the narrator is unnamed or just “B”—and it’s not clear to what extent these characters can be separated from one another, which characteristics or events are autobiographical or imagined. I like the way they blur together—it think it influenced the way I approached Sour Heart, a collection of stories where every single narrator is a Chinese American girl, the progeny of Chinese artists and poets, whose lives intersect and converge in minor, but significant ways. I think I learned from Bolaño how to present different aspects of a fragmented self in a way that eludes any easy autobiographical reading.
The real Bolaño did participate in some revolutionary activities in Chile (although even that has been hotly debated)—famously, he was arrested, and locked up with other political prisoners who were being tortured. But though similar circumstances befall the narrator of “Dance Card,” it’s not told like Orwell coming back from war with his battle scars. We’re told, instead, the pathetic, comic story of a failed resistance, as if Bolaño’s saying: I joined the revolution and was bored. When the character B goes to the only revolutionary cell in the suburban town he’s in, the other freedom fighters are all senior citizens—or else they are 15. He’s sent to keep watch in an empty street, and he forgets his password. When he’s picked up during a random road check, the whole event is written to emphasize the randomness and absurdity of his misfortunes. B spends the night in a jail, and while he can hear others being tortured near him, he is left alone to pass the time reading a magazine article about Dylan Thomas. The whole thing is much more pathetic than heroic. It’s almost like he fails to be in “the right story”—as if he’s just a footnote in a larger narrative.
I love the way he plays with our expectations of autobiography, how he frustrates our desire to find the perfect leftist, activist, Latin American writer and revolutionary who is heroic in all the right ways. It provided a way to write about the stories I heard growing up, about another failed revolution where poets and artists were often jailed over the most trivial and petty of things, where their lives ended in tragic and absurd ways. I was captivated by my parents’ stories of the Cultural Revolution—stories of people dying, and street fights, and torture, stuff that was all very sensational and hard to forget. But after those stories ended, there were always other stories about the people whose stories ended in more comic ways, less glorious ways. I remember hearing about a man who went through all these machinations to elude capture by Mao Zedong’s regime, only to end up stranded in the U.S. Virgin Islands, cut off from his family for 30 years. When they were finally reunited, he promptly lost a leg in a freak accident.
Similarly, in “Dance Card” B hears three different versions of the same story of a Chilean woman who was a member of the MIR (the leftist revolutionary organization that was systematically targeted, rounded up, tortured, and murdered by the Pinochet regime) “having live rats put into her vagina” and who survives only to “die of sadness” years later. The character B isn’t sure if it’s an incredibly common story or if each of the stories was referring to the same woman. Bolaño tends to foreground those footnoted, overlooked tragedies in a way I find really beautiful.
Whenever there are significantly awful historical events, I’ve found there’s always a lot of comedy in them despite the gruesomeness. There’s a way certain things—death, extreme poverty—are deemed so tragic that they cannot be profaned, they can only be spoken of reverently or seriously. It’s been important to me in my writing to show that people are not only defined by the hardships they experience. Women are often defined by the worst thing that has happened to them. Even just calling someone an “immigrant” implies that their identity is bound by the most difficult thing that’s happened to them. To me, that’s just not an interesting use of literature. You can bring out the humor in people’s situations without trivializing them.
Think about it: If it weren’t so shitty and miserable to be poor, it would be really funny. There’s a part in the first story in Sour Heart where this Chinese American family lives in a violent, unsafe, poor neighborhood—I tried to convey that by describing the way their stuff gets stolen every week by the same people, and each time they buy it back it only gets stolen again. It’s not a scary confrontation with knives—it’s this grinding inconvenience that eventually drains their funds, forcing them, ultimately, to move out.
Sometimes that’s what poverty is. The fact that it costs so much to be poor is absurd. Poor people often have very little access to healthy food and are forced to shop in supermarkets that sell expired goods, rotting produce, and they have to do it at a higher premium than rich people. Poor people also pay disproportionately more of their income for rent. If that weren’t so supremely terrible, if their humanity hadn’t been so completely compromised, it would be comic.
Being scatological is another way I found the humor in my characters suffering. Maybe it’s inappropriate and immature—but when you’re hungry, do you know how much you think about what you put in you, how much you think about what comes out of you? Your whole life is dictated by the things that are or are not going in you, that are or are not coming out of you. That’s a huge part of life, especially for immigrants who are used to eating a completely different set of foods at home, and I felt like it was worthy of pages.
When I go back to China, every single one of my elders has a laundry list of issues with their bowels and their bowel movements. It’s because so many of them lived through a time of famine where they literally had to eat bark, some of them while working under extremely harsh conditions. I had an aunt who was sent to work in Heilongjiang, an area that borders Siberia and China. For eight years, she said, she was served this thing called mantou in the morning—a kind of bread she had to eat within 10 seconds or it would literally turn to ice. For eight years of her life, every morning, she had this ice cube of bread in her stomach and now she has these horrible stomach problems—just the way so many other people have horrible back problems, or knee problems, because of the labor they had to do.
The narrators of my stories descend from people who lived through that, and in some small way I think there’s something powerful in laughing at something really terrible that happened to you. After all, there’s nothing more dangerous than making fun of a tyrannical regime—humor and profanity are the first things that are rounded up and eliminated. More than that: These tiny moments of levity are what free people from being mere victims to the vagaries of history. To take humor out of someone’s narrative is to deprive them of a kind of humanity. It’s using them, too—a way of wielding people functionally. But no one wants to be a pawn in someone else’s ideological signaling. You want to be a full, whole human. You want your humanity to be restored.
The fear of being used symbolically haunts me. I fear how quickly the symbolic usages that my writing might have can eclipse the writing itself. I realize that I’m very easy to tokenize. I’m very easy to wield symbolically. I have an anxiety that our need to have a way to talk about the “immigrant experience” will override what I’m actually writing about. But I don’t want to be anointed a chronicler of the immigrant experience. I worry that my work will become too meaningful in all the ways that I never wanted it to be, and not meaningful enough in all the ways that I want it to be.
And yet, now that I have this book out, I think I also feel some amount of shame: Why is it that I get to be read? Why has someone decided that what I have to say should be heard? On the other side of not wanting to be forgotten, of not wanting to vanish, is—for me, at least—shame that I now exist on the page. I fear that my words will be misunderstood, but I also have shame about fearing that because I don’t want to be so controlling about something I’ve made. It’s just that poetry and literature are often used as proxies in these ideological, cultural battles. And writers are constantly saying: No, just read the actual words.
There’s such longing at the end of “Dance Card.” There’s this longing for community in every single thing that Bolaño wrote. In almost every book, he writes about someone who has this initial interest, curiosity, idealism, who goes searching for an artistic poetic community where their words and ideas will matter. Then there’s this fall from grace, realizing that maybe no such thing exists—or that all communities are fractured and disturbed and destroyed by in-fighting and pettiness, but also real differences.
I think every writer who still goes on and doesn’t quit, must have that longing, must keep that longing alive and must in some way not be willing to give up on that possibility that’s there’s a shared home for all of us who believe in the beauty of words and language and stories and poetry. What Bolaño, at the end of “Dance Card,” calls “our imaginary home, the home we share.” It’s a dark vision—in the line before, he suggests the best poets can hope for are “artistic communities called jails or asylums.” You have to ask yourself if he means “asylum” in the sense of “refuge” or “asylum” in the sense of a place you’re thrown into because you’re politically persecuted or because you’re deranged and deformed by all the suffering that’s befallen you.
But there’s also a glimmer of hope. A sense of the poet’s longing: Please don’t take my imagination away from me, let me have that, let me have a home there. All writers have imaginary homelands, especially exiled writers who literally cannot go home, and there is a sense that the home we do share is that realm of the imagination, a place where all our voices can be heard.
I still believe in it. Writing is an asylum in both senses of the word: I’m finally on safe ground, and also I’m going mad. All together with everyone else. Literature is a place to go mad together.


Princess Nokia’s “ABCs of New York” at first seems built on a simple gimmick. “A is for the apple, take a bite and spit it out,” raps the 25-year-old rising star. “B is for bodega, eating on your mama couch.” It’s a list song, a nu-“10 Crack Commandments” or “Alphabet Aerobics,” rendering America’s biggest city in adult nursery-rhyme.
But as the track unspools over a laid-back keys loop, the seemingly rigid format begins to break down. By the letter “G,” for “ghetto girl,” Princess Nokia is going off on half-verse tangents—“rainbow clothes / Baby hairs and well-done toes / Single mothers carry those bummy sneakers / What are those?” When she moves to the next letter, it’s casual, unannounced; only afterwards do you realize “H” is for “Hunts Point.” Now instead of her foisting the A-B-C concept on the listener, the listener’s trying to find alphabetical meaning in her free-form journaling. In the final verse, the letters are swirled together, out of order. But “X” is unmissable: “Livin’ in the city, you can never be a xenophobe.”
The Urgent Message of M.I.A.'s Kala at 10
The way that song grabs attention with a simple idea and then complicates it, enlivens it, and gives it a little political charge is typical for Princess Nokia. She’s one of the most fascinating new forces in music because of how she strikes a balance between high-minded concepts, social specificity, and the playfulness that only hip-hop can afford. Last year’s self-released EP, 1992, is now available on streaming platforms with eight new tracks, essentially making it a full-fledged album: 1992 Deluxe. It’s a great debut, teeming with the same kaleidoscopic possibility as the city she hails from.

Destiny Nicole Frasqueri has been releasing music under the name Princess Nokia for three years, and in some ways she seems a perfect match for an era in which identity—racial and otherwise—has become a newly explicit cultural focal point. “I am a Yoruba, Taino, Puerto Rican girl with really brown skin, full curly hair, and a spirit that does not quit,” she told Teen Vogue in a recent interview, and her lyrics celebrate other labels, too—nerd, tomboy, goth, ’90s kid, bruja. But one listen to 1992 makes clear that her appeal is less on-paper and more in-the-ear, with her identity inspiring intoxicatingly brash, unpretentiously clever anthems about nonconforming. This is rap that uses the word “diaspora” both out of wokeness and because it’s fun to say.
The husky toughness in her voice is unmistakably a New Yorker’s, but part of her talent is her ability to morph, whether echoing Southern drawls or adopting the vogueish triplet flow. Her beatmakers trend classicist—using soul textures, crisp snapping drums, bright synth lines, with the occasional skitter of new trap music—and the sturdy backing frees Princess Nokia to experiment with delivery. Aggressive singles like “Tomboy” and “Kitana” have her unloading fast, tight bursts of syllables over a militaristic roar. Other times, she and her producers nail very specific moods: glowering and confident for the supernatural boasts of “Brujas,” pensively jazzy on the NYC commuter’s sketchbook “Green Line.”

A big part of the album’s charm comes from getting to know Frasqueri, who has a knack for imparting her own uniqueness while connecting it to the environment around her. On the opener, “Bart Simpson,” she sketches herself as a high-school slacker using details that make for both a distinctive personal portrait and a totally relatable vision of teenage struggle: “Eczema so bad I’m bleeding, but I smile and keep it cheesing.” Later, the silky highlight “Saggy Denim” pairs a litany of ’90s touchstones—Sublime, Selena, Calvin Klein—with the rapper’s memories of growing up “in the projects with nasty stairs and halls.”
Nokia’s big muse, in fact, is the relationship between one’s own culture, interests, and individuality. Anime, horchata, yaki ponytails—whatever the signifier she’s using in the moment, she implies that people can be defined by the things that give their lives texture but not reduced to them. “The world was born of innies / And I was born an outie,” she raps on “Goth Kid,” a compilation of references to Marilyn Manson and Edward Gorey that revels in the mismatch between the stereotypes others might want to place on her versus the one she’s trying to claim (“Gothic is the pain you feel and not the clothes that’s on your back”). Standing apart gives you power, she’s saying. But her mission clearly is not just about being different. It’s about recognizing the folks who might see themselves in her, and reveling in their shared language.


Strange things can happen when television shows move from one locale to another. The languid moodiness of True Detective’s first season, mired in the mystic culture and history of rural Louisiana, looked more like lumpy, peyote-swigging fan fiction when the show was rebooted in exurban California a year later. Even a simple production change can make a difference: The X-Files, transplanted from filming in dreary Vancouver to sunny Los Angeles in its sixth season, suddenly saw all the myriad possibilities of alien comedy and adjusted its tone accordingly.
Top of the Lake, the 2013 miniseries by Jane Campion about a female detective (Elisabeth Moss) investigating a missing, pregnant 12-year-old, was set in the fictional remote town of Laketop, New Zealand, and much of the series’s power came from its bleak, otherworldly landscape. The vast mountains looming over yellow fields put the eerie, even surreal behavior of Laketop’s inhabitants in the right kind of frame. When a show is so anchored by its topography, it’s hard to imagine what it might look like elsewhere—picture Twin Peaks set in Panama City, or The Killing in San Diego.
But that’s about what happened with Top of the Lake: China Girl, Campion’s follow-up, currently airing over three nights on Sundance TV in successive two-hour installments before it heads to Hulu. Set around Sydney’s Bondi Beach, the six-hour drama feels unmoored by its new location. The characteristic obsessions are all there—motherhood, misogyny, self-actualization—but removing them from the context of South Island’s dramatic scenery has somehow neutered their narrative potential.
The Visceral, Woman-Centric Horror of The Handmaid's Tale
It’s by no means the only issue with the series. Set against this much more conventional backdrop, the holes in Campion’s detective story are clearer, but the story and the dialogue have been heightened to the point of absurdist theater, as if to compensate. The first series saw Robin (Moss), a Sydney detective, tasked with finding a missing girl while visiting her hometown. Throughout her investigation, personal and professional concerns became increasingly entangled: The case required Robin to revisit her own sexual assault in high school, she was drugged and assaulted again by a colleague, and a primary suspect in the disappearance was revealed to be her real father. In China Girl, Robin is back in Sydney, four years later, investigating the death of a woman whose body was dumped into the ocean in a suitcase, and who appears, against all odds, to be linked to the daughter Robin gave up for adoption 18 years ago.
The primary antagonist in the show is misogyny, which seemed to have infected Laketop so perniciously in the first season that even an all-women retreat run by the enigmatic GJ (Holly Hunter) couldn’t endure it. “Are you a feminist? Are you a lesbian?” a drinker in the local bar asks Robin early on, before expounding on the sexual superiority of Thai women. Within the tight-knit rural community, which was deeply suspicious of outsiders, the hatred and subjugation of women had coagulated at every level, to the point where Robin’s boss, Detective Sergeant Al Parker (David Wenham) was revealed to be not only a rapist but also the mastermind of a ring of underage prostitutes.
But in China Girl, set in the much larger city of Sydney, the show’s continued presentation of men as rapists, pimps, cheats, and murderers is so committed it starts to become comical. There’s a group of unprepossessing bloggers who run a website for rating sex workers online and meet weekly to debate their favorites (the primary character literally lives in his mother’s basement). Robin’s male colleagues either proposition her or disparage the appearance of her new partner, Miranda (Game of Thrones’s Gwendoline Christie). Even Robin’s ally, a criminal pathologist, fixates on her sex life, telling her he’d marry her if only he had a bigger penis. The real villain, though, is Alexander “Puss” Braun (David Dencik), a German immigrant and former academic who’s cartoonishly evil in a logic-defying way, as if the Joker ran a brothel and groomed underage girls for the sole purpose of torturing their parents.
As despairing as they are about toxic masculinity, the new episodes are fixated on the subject of motherhood—what it means, what it costs, and the lengths women will go to when they’re denied it. Campion based some of this on her own experiences, and the inclusion of her own daughter in the cast, Alice Englert, playing Mary, Robin’s biological daughter, amplifies the energy. Nicole Kidman, a new addition to the show, plays Mary’s adoptive mother, and the tension between the woman who bore a child and the woman who raised her casts an ugly kind of pall over proceedings. “You withheld from her,” Kidman spits in one of the odder scenes, sporting prosthetic teeth and a curly gray wig. “Mothers don’t do that. They reassure their children. That’s what they do.” This accusation—that Robin, who gave up the baby she had after being raped as a teenager, is selfish and a bad mother—is a hard statement to qualify, but it’s far from being the only head-scratcher.
China Girl is full of aphorisms and statements that might be profound if they weren’t so nonsensical. The conversations between Robin and Miranda are particularly dense, as if Pinter were imagining female workplace conflict:
MIRANDA: I’m not your partner! I’m your whipping boy. I have to be hopeless so you can be clever and you can be capable.
ROBIN: I take care. I’m careful with people.
MIRANDA: I’m the one that cares!
ROBIN: No, I can translate. You’re fucking dangerous.
Worse is that Robin, who was so competent while being realistically vulnerable in the first season, is now a grab-bag of clichés about single women in their 30s: hostile, perpetually drunk, and obsessed with her fertility, plagued by recurring dreams about fetuses. Moss, Emmy-nominated for her mesmerizing performance in The Handmaid’s Tale, seems thwarted by the stilted dialogue she’s given here, and her spotty New Zealand accent doesn’t help. Kidman exudes bossy self-absorption as Julia, a devotee of Germaine Greer–feminism who’s consumed with parenting as it relates to her own identity. “Your baby has been loved by me very much, and now she hates me,” she tells Robin, bitterly.
But China Girl’s biggest failing is how it treats its female characters of color. The title refers to the police moniker given to the victim uncovered in the first episode, who was Thai, not Chinese. It’s obvious that Campion is perturbed by the legalized sex industry in Sydney, staffed overwhelmingly by migrants from Asia. In considering it, she makes two storylines converge: The sex workers in Puss’s brothel are also illegally acting as surrogates for infertile white couples. It’s a clumsy plot device, and the point it seems intended to make about Western exploitation of immigrants never comes through. Nor are the Thai characters given the opportunity to become more than window dressing—China Girl offers no context on their histories or feelings or dreams, beyond emphasizing that they mostly hate their jobs. In seeking to expose the ethical failures in how the West profits from foreign labor, Campion unwittingly perpetuates the cycle, giving short shrift to women whose presence merely embellishes the stories of her white characters.
To call Campion a living legend is to understate her achievements. She’s the only woman in film history to win the Palme d’Or at the Cannes Film Festival, which she achieved in 1993 for her Oscar-winning movie The Piano. Her work has consistently documented and mined misogyny as a subject, from her 1996 adaptation of The Portrait of a Lady, also starring Kidman, to her 2003 thriller In the Cut. The first season of Top of the Lake, which functioned perfectly as a standalone work, was subtle and nuanced enough to point out how hatred of women can become engrained in communities at every level. China Girl, removed from the enclosed landscape of Laketop, loses its distinctive visual environment (the cinematographer on the first season was Adam Arkapaw, who didn’t return for the second). But it also loses the sense of magical realism and willing suspension of disbelief that setting provided. The ending of the final episode points to a third installment of Top of the Lake, although at this point fans of the first season might be more inclined to pretend the second never happened.


Updated on September 12 at 11:24 a.m. ET
Since the “relaunch” of the Star Wars franchise—a yearly onslaught of sequels and spinoffs under the umbrella of Disney and the mega-producer Kathleen Kennedy—the hefty price paid to George Lucas for the films has looked eminently worthwhile. Star Wars: The Force Awakens made $2 billion worldwide in 2015. Rogue One took another $1 billion in 2016. Episode VIII, The Last Jedi, should earn somewhere between those two totals this year, and there are many more projects along the way guaranteed to print money. Star Wars remains the strongest brand in Hollywood. The only victims of its sale to Disney, thus far, have been young, up-and-coming directors.
More than two years ago, Kennedy hired Colin Trevorrow, the director of Jurassic World (the fourth-highest grossing film in cinema history), to complete her Star Wars sequel trilogy as the writer and director of the still untitled Episode IX. Given his success wrangling one complicated franchise, his ascendancy to Star Wars seemed logical, and Kennedy praised him as an “incredible talent” and “skilled filmmaker” in announcing the hire. Last week, Trevorrow was fired, a decision characterized by Kennedy as “mutual” but reported as being entirely unilateral. It was announced Tuesday that J. J. Abrams, who helmed The Force Awakens, would be replacing him. Trevorrow is the fourth director Kennedy has reportedly outright dismissed since she took charge of Star Wars, and the most high-profile to date. The move is the clearest confirmation yet of who the real auteurs are in 21st-century Hollywood: the franchise producers.
The Book of Henry Is a Warped Nightmare of a Movie
That’s not to say Kennedy is dictating exact instructions to each of her directors. But like Kevin Feige (the producer overseeing the Marvel films), John Lasseter (in charge of Disney and Pixar animation), Jason Blum (the mogul behind almost every horror film hit of recent years), and Toby Emmerich (the chief content officer at Warner Bros.), the buck stops with Kennedy on every major decision, and she sets the overall tone of the franchise, a multi-billion dollar enterprise of major importance to Disney’s shareholders. Producers have always been crucial in Hollywood. But not since the industry’s “Golden Age” of the ’30s, ’40s, and ’50s have individual executives wielded so much influence.
That’s been apparent on Star Wars from the minute Kennedy took control. Her first hire, Abrams, was an experienced Hollywood producer and director who had already worked on big franchises like Mission: Impossible and Star Trek, who helped deliver a crowd-pleasing movie on a tight schedule after the film’s original script, by Michael Arndt, was hastily revamped. (In a statement announcing Abrams’s return, Kennedy said, “With The Force Awakens, J.J. delivered everything we could have possibly hoped for.”) But aside from Abrams, Kennedy’s initial hires for Star Wars were the same brand of young, up-and-coming directors who had made their name quickly and shown some promise with larger-scale genre work.
Rian Johnson, picked for Episode VIII, burst onto the scene with the indie noir Brick in 2005 and had gotten raves and solid box-office totals for his time-travel drama Looper (2012). Trevorrow, similarly, emerged with a small-budget indie (also about time travel) called Safety Not Guaranteed in 2012, which he parlayed into the moneymaking sensation Jurassic World. Gareth Edwards, hired to helm the gritty spinoff Rogue One, had made the well-liked indie Monsters in 2010 and then jumped to the awe-inspiring Godzilla in 2014. Josh Trank, hired for an untitled spinoff, had the found-footage superhero film Chronicle under his belt and was busy with a Fantastic Four reboot. Phil Lord and Chris Miller, picked for a Han Solo spinoff film, started out in animation and then turned the 21 Jump Street reboot into a surprise hit.
Of all the directors I just named, only Johnson has emerged unscathed (The Last Jedi is due out in December after a drama-free production). Edwards did get to make Rogue One, but the film was extensively reshot by the director Tony Gilroy (Michael Clayton) with a number of scenes, including the ending, reportedly being changed wholesale. Lord and Miller were fired in the middle of production on their Han Solo movie, due out next summer, over Kennedy’s apparent dissatisfaction with their reliance on improvisation and goofy tone (Ron Howard was hired as their replacement). Trank never even got to make his movie, losing the gig after the calamitous release of his Fantastic Four (he said he stepped down because he wanted a lower profile). And now Trevorrow, who had been writing story treatments for Episode IX with his usual collaborator Derek Connolly, is gone.
The actual reasons for Trevorrow’s departure are still being dug into by industry reporters, but the fact that his latest film The Book of Henry was critically derided this summer certainly didn’t help matters. According to Vulture’s Chris Lee, that catastrophe might have started the ball rolling on Trevorrow’s dismissal, but he wrote that Trevorrow’s ego played an even bigger role. “When the reviews for Book of Henry came out, there was immediately conjecture that Kathy was going to dump him because they weren’t thrilled with working with him anyway,” an anonymous executive claims in the story. “He’s a difficult guy. He’s really, really, really confident. Let’s call it that.”
It is hardly shocking news that a film director might perhaps be egotistical, especially after the blazing success of Jurassic World. Hollywood is a business where directors are always given incredible amounts of power, overseeing every creative decision in a project that can cost hundreds of millions of dollars. Perhaps Trevorrow was especially guilty of hubris, but if Hollywood were to fire every director that was overly confident in his (or, sadly much more rarely, her) own abilities, it would quickly find itself out of working directors.
The problem was not just Trevorrow’s intellectual vanity or inability to collaborate. His firing is also a symptom of the new way of doing business, where franchise directors have to defer creatively to their producers on a scale that’s unusual even by Hollywood standards. If Episode IX were just one movie, Kennedy’s role would be different—she’d be working more directly to help along Trevorrow’s vision, and to help him finance and mount whatever big artistic ideas he had for the project. But Episode IX is just another in an endless series of money-makers, and Trevorrow was one easily replaceable cog in a machine.


This post contains spoilers through Season 2, Episode 8 of Insecure.
It was the conversation that had been building since the beginning of Insecure: Issa and Lawrence having the heart-to-heart they’d been needing to have since even before they broke up—in the now-gleaming kitchen of the apartment they had shared for so many years. “I’m sorry,” Lawrence said. “For not being who you expected me to be. Who I expected me to be.”
“I wanted to be better for you,” Issa replied. “Because of you.”
And then: “Lawrence, I still love you so much.”
And then: “I love you, too.”
Insecure’s Nuanced Take on Singleness
It was soft and honest and cathartic. It was a repetition of the kitchen scene shared by Lawrence and Aparna—the latter, like Issa, perched precariously on the counter—earlier in the episode, Insecure’s Season 2 finale. But, now, the couple in question was Issa and Lawrence. And the two, having said what needed to be said, embraced, for a time that was long and meaningful and laden with what ifs. Were they getting back together? Were they finding, finally, some closure? Were they becoming friends?
“So ... I’m gonna head out,” Lawrence says.
“Okay,” Issa replies, hesitantly. They walk out of the kitchen. Lawrence steps out of the apartment’s doorway, into the open air outside. “Bye, Issa,” he says.
And then: He steps back into the apartment. He drops to his knee, in the doorway. He tells Issa he can’t imagine his life without her. He asks her to marry him. She giddily accepts. She looks at the camera, directly. And then the frames flash forward: to Issa in a wedding dress, cuddling with a suit-clad Lawrence on the blue couch they’d bought together. Issa with a swollen abdomen. The couple bringing the new baby into the same spot where Lawrence had proposed: that doorway, that place of there and not-there, that space of possibility both embraced and foreclosed. Issa looks at the camera again.
And then the scene’s action flashes back to the current moment, to that same threshold: to Lawrence, standing on the one side of the doorway, and Issa, standing on the other. The two, so very close, and so very not. “Bye, Issa,” Lawrence says again. And then he walks away. The future(s) will not come to pass, at least not now.
I believe the critical term for the emotional arc of this series of scenes is aaaaahhhhh. Insecure has, from the beginning, made artistic use of such gut-wrenching, fourth-wall-bending fakery: The show is extremely skilled at subverting audience expectations and exploring that blunt but fine line between what is and what might be. Lawrence, at the end of Insecure’s first-season finale, in that other apartment, in that other bed. Issa, in the show’s second-season premiere, having that heady conversation with her estranged ex—but only, it will turn out, in her mind. It’s a technique that takes that core element of the literary romantic—the pathos of the paths not taken—and makes it cinematic.
Insecure’s Season 2 finale is titled “Hella Perspective,” and it’s fitting: This is a piece of television devoted, explicitly, to the exploration of points of view. The episode, in an extremely literal interpretation of its title, on the one hand uses the frame that so many sitcoms have before: the multi-perspectival one. “30 Days With Lawrence,” it begins, via title card. And, later: “30 Days with Molly.” And “30 Days With Issa.” But that frame itself, it turns out, is another fakeout: “Hella Perspective” is not an episode told, strictly, from the differing points of view of those differing characters—an act of aesthetic empathy along the lines of You’re the Worst’s “Twenty-Two” or Master of None’s “New York, I Love You” or pretty much any episode of Orange Is the New Black—so much as it is one that adopts a more sweeping sense of possibility: the kind traditionally seen in science fiction. The stuff of Star Trek and Stargate and Doctor Who. The alternative-reality impulse that has occasionally been adopted by sitcoms and cinema, but that is extremely difficult to execute in a manner that isn’t also swathed hopelessly in Sliding Doors cliche: one fate versus another, pop philosophy in action.
For Insecure, though, an exploration of what might be—and what will never come to pass—makes a fitting conclusion for a season that has, from its outset, cared so much about the dynamics of possibility itself. Issa and Lawrence. Or Issa and Daniel. Or Issa and Eddie. And also: Molly and Lionel. Or Molly and Dro. Or Molly and Quentin. Each one, after all, is not merely a romantic pairing; it is also a path. It is a direction a life might take: marriages, children, fates individual and collective, doors passed through and shut. Insecure is a show that is deeply interested in the trajectories of fate—in how small events can escalate to become big ones, in how life can change in an instant. In ways that are immediately obvious, and ways that will reveal themselves in their fullness only much later. This is one of the things that makes Insecure at once sitcomic and exceptionally poetic: Two roads diverged. Waiting with myself. In a minute there is time for decisions and revisions which a minute will reverse.
And, of course, that sense of twisted fate is not merely a matter of the show’s romantic plotlines. Lawrence gets pulled over, and he drops his credit card as he’s getting his license out, and everything changes from there. Kelli gets her period during the race she’s running, and all her training is rendered useless in an instant. Issa ends Season 2 confronting the door-framed logic of decision-making: She’s unclear about the future of her job. She’s unclear about her living situation. Molly is deciding between staying at her current job—a job where she is not respected as she deserves—and moving on to another one. So many people here are caught in the in-between, weighing options, choosing fates. And so many things are, too. Inglewood is being gentrified (“I-wood!” a perky future barista informs Issa). Even the show’s media environment is exploring—via Due North, Insecure’s brilliant show-within-a-show—alternative realities. “Hella Perspective” is an episode, and Insecure is a show, in many ways about the frustrations of flux: That life is a series of choices means also that it is a series of rejected possibilities.
Little surprise, then, that doorways have factored so prominently in the show—that thresholds have served as locations for some of Insecure’s most dramatic and pivotal scenes. They are powerful in that way—as places that divide the public from the private. As spaces that bring people together, and that enforce separation. Doors are constantly opening in this show, and it’s often a mystery who will be on the other side; doors are constantly closing, too. The doorway is where Lawrence and Issa have come together; it is where, in the place where he might have proposed, he said goodbye. “There’s a medical term called ‘magical thinking,’” Dr. Pine tells Molly, early in Insecure’s second season. The therapist observes that Molly frames much of her life with “should,” when there’s so much more power in the “could.” Who can blame her, though? The “could” can be stifling. The “could” can be overwhelming. The “could” is there and not there, a door that is always ajar, a spectral reminder of all that is not but might have been.


Yorgos Lanthimos first gained international recognition as a Greek filmmaker with a taste for a particular sort of black comedy, making movies (including Kinetta, Alps, and 2009’s Oscar-nominated Dogtooth) that had one foot in science fiction and another in body horror, and yet still managed to provoke laughs with nightmare scenarios. He broke out in 2015 with The Lobster, starring Colin Farrell and Rachel Weisz, a surreal epic set in a world where single people are sent to a hotel to try and find love, and are condemned to be turned into an animal of their choice should they fail. At once sweetly heartbreaking and mesmerizingly disturbing, the film was a cult hit that got a surprise Oscar nomination for Best Original Screenplay.
Lanthimos’s newest film, The Killing of a Sacred Deer, re-teams him with Farrell in a very different role: While Farrell played the loveless sad-sack protagonist of The Lobster, here he’s a successful heart surgeon named Steven who has a beautiful wife (played by an eminently poised Nicole Kidman), two children, and an expensive home. Steven takes the teenager Martin (Barry Keoghan) under his wing after the death of Martin’s father on his operating table, and things turn sinister as the teen begins to exact an elemental sort of revenge, forcing Steven to make a frightening choice about the future of his family.
The film has all the hallmarks of a Lanthimos movie, including his curious skill with dialogue (his characters usually speak long, expository sentences with a flat, affected monotone) and his taste for macabre plotting. But it also feels like a fascinating new step for the director, one more heavily steeped in gothic drama than bizarre comedy, announcing itself with a startling opening shot of real-life open-heart surgery. I spoke to Lanthimos about his idea of the film ahead of its North American debut at the Toronto International Film Festival (it is scheduled for U.S. release on October 27). This interview has been edited for clarity and length.
David Sims: I have to tell you, I saw the film a few days ago, and I had very strange dreams that night.
Yorgos Lanthimos: Good, so we went straight to the subconscious, then.
Sims: Did you first come to The Killing of a Sacred Deer thinking about this terrible choice Colin Farrell’s character has to make?
Lanthimos: I think the initial thoughts were around the oddity of a very young person (Martin) trying to get revenge over something an older person has done. And that kind of dynamic, that a teenager can actually terrorize someone grown-up and mature. And, also, the themes of justice and the ambiguity of the situation we choose to put [Farrell’s] character in. He’s a doctor, and whether or not there was any fault, that kind of ambiguity, leading into impossible questions and dilemmas. It’s hard to say one particular thing that sparked the idea, because I work very closely with Efthymis [Filippou]; we write the scripts together, and it’s mostly a dialogue. We start discussing a situation, one says one thing, one says another thing, and it just progresses around ideas we’re interested in.
Sims: Martin—when he presents the rules of this scenario Steven is trapped in—feels like a sort of Rumpelstiltskin, or any sort of demonic figure in fairy tales.
Lanthimos: We didn’t set out to create such a specific association or atmosphere—it was mostly about trying to make this young boy, this teenager, feel both as a young, innocent boy and as someone who’s very mature, with tremendous power over other people. We’re trying to create a balance, which you don’t find everyday in life. We didn’t want him to appear as evil or naïve; we wanted an ambiguity, with elements that you understand. Up to a point, you go with him, and you identify with him and his pain.
Sims: There are all these shots of long hallways, of the camera gliding behind characters. The camera is in motion a lot here, unlike your other films.
Lanthimos: You are right, there’s much more movement than in any of my previous films. I never think about it much, the visual aspect of it, until we start making the movie. I don’t really think about it when we write. When we finish, and I start putting the film together, and we pick the locations, I do think about that a lot. On this one, I just felt the need for the camera to be almost like another entity, in some ways. Like there’s another, otherworldly presence—very discreetly. I thought of these high angles, or very low angles, with the camera following people around, creeping from below or above. That was the initial feel that I thought was fitting to the whole story. And then you face actual hospitals, they have long corridors, so obviously you work with that. What you thought of as an initial approach takes shape because of your surroundings.
Sims: You do an excellent job capturing what can be a little frightening about a hospital: that it can be a little too clean, that it can be eerily quiet.
Lanthimos: The most important thing for me about the hospital was that it looked state-of-the-art and new, that it wasn’t a Gothic-type old hospital. Both as a juxtaposition to the genre the film flirts with, but also in terms of the story, that was the most important part for me. I wanted nobody to think that this was a terrible hospital, and that’s why nobody’s figuring out what’s wrong. It needed to feel like all the scientific resources were there, that Colin’s a successful surgeon who knows what he’s doing.
Sims: You capture that in his home, as well—that everything looks so pristine and modern and very classy and expensive, that despite all of that, there’s nothing he can do as his children begin to get sick. Which is very scary!
Lanthimos: Yeah, you feel helpless.
Sims: But this movie more exists in ‘the real world,’ versus something like The Lobster. Were you thinking of larger world-building, or was that less of a concern?
Lanthimos: No, you’re right, The Lobster is very particular, and we did need to create a very specific world with specific rules so the whole premise would work. But the way we thought about this story, it seemed it would take place in the normal world; well, the world that we know. [Laughs.] I don’t know that it’s normal, but the world that we live in. Within this world that we’re familiar with, something odd and otherworldly happens. So it was important that it felt like the real world, so that the situation did seem extreme and strange and impossible to deal with.
Sims: Did you always figure on casting Colin again?
Lanthimos: No, we wrote this [movie] after The Lobster, but as with the visual stuff, I don’t think about actors or anything else while we’re writing the script. I try to keep the process quite separate, so that I’m open to anything. But I had a great experience working with Colin on The Lobster, and it seemed like an excellent fit. It’s quite a different role from The Lobster, quite more challenging and complex. It’s also great to create these kinds of relationships and then try to evolve with the other people and try to do different things. Next time, things are easier and you can go further.
Sims: It is a very different role in The Killing of a Sacred Deer. In The Lobster, he’s very befuddled, it’s a more outwardly comedic character, while here his character is on top of the world. What kind of an impression did you want him to give at the start of the movie?
Lanthimos: We don’t talk much; I try not to say too many things with the actors. Not to analyze too many things about the film, because I think it’s better for the process. The way I work, and the material we work with, I think if you analyze too much and have too many specific ideas, it just becomes a little bit too superficial, and then performances might become too self-conscious and project relatively narrow things. Whereas I cherish ambiguity, and surprise, and actors that are present in the moment, and not trying to get through particular ideas in the scene, or in the moment. That approach limits the resonance of scenes in general. So I do try to stay away, as much as possible, from having too many detailed discussions about what it is, and what the character is. Definitely no background story—all I know is what’s on the page.
And of course, Colin knows that, from working together before. So he did have questions at the beginning, probably something like what you said. The only thing I remember, the only thing we discussed, is he said, “This is more of a grounded world, right? It’s more real?” And I said, “Yeah, yeah. But, you know.” And he said, “Yeah, I know.” He’s a very smart guy, he has a great sense of humor, he gets our work, and he gets the material. You don’t have to go into great length trying to explain it or figure it out. It’s just about fine-tuning, about helping the actors find the right volume, or tone, or speed. So I work more in physical ways like that. Usually, I say, “This is too loud, or too slow,” I never go too intellectual with their performances.
Sims: There is a particular rhythm to your dialogue and how it’s delivered. So I assume you take care that everything is said in that rhythm.
Lanthimos: Yeah. That’s partially true, but I think the writing and the material also has a very strong imprint, it’s kind of there. All the talented and smart actors, they get it; as soon as it comes out of their mouth, they know if it’s right or wrong. If the writing has a particular voice, they get it, and they can hit it. I’ve been very lucky, and I’ve worked with great actors, and actors that know and appreciate my previous work, and that helps a lot as well. They’re aware of the universe, though every film is different, obviously. But I think they understand the intention.
Sims: Was that true of Nicole Kidman? Was she acquainted with your work?
Lanthimos: It was a similar situation; she was aware of my work, and we had met a couple of times before. Obviously, I admire her very much, and she’d seen some of my films, and we met and were always talking about doing something together. We started sending out the script, she read it and texted me saying, “I love it, and I want to do it.” And I just replied, “Okay.” And that was it! And the experience was great. She’s extremely committed and hard-working and talented, obviously. It was just about fine-tuning all these things. And she had a great relationship with Colin, and they went on, after we wrapped, a few weeks later they were on another set together [in The Beguiled].
Sims: Have you seen it?
Lanthimos: No, I want to watch it!
Sims: I was also very happy to see Alicia Silverstone, in that one important scene as Martin’s mother. She’s an actress I’ve loved for a long time, and you don’t see her on screen as much these days. Were you thinking of her, when it came time to cast the movie?
Lanthimos: I have to say, I didn’t! My casting director thought of her. As you said, I was a huge fan; I’d seen Clueless when I was a teenager a thousand times, the Aerosmith music videos, and all that. But because she had fallen off my radar, I didn’t think of her, I’m ashamed to say. But our casting director, Francine [Maisler], I think she saw her in a play, near when we were casting, and as soon as she mentioned her, I said, “Yes! Let’s do that!” And she was amazing, it’s perfect. She came in and out, unfortunately only for a day, but it was really fun to do it with her.
Sims: That first shot of The Killing of a Sacred Deer, of open-heart surgery on an operating table, really announces the film in a particular way. What were you thinking when you decided to open the film that way?
Lanthimos: I wasn’t thinking, really. [Laughs.] It just felt right—a film about a heart surgeon opens with a heart. And as you get into it, you think about the most impactful way of doing that, and the simplest way, at the same time. At the beginning, we wrote this scene that was much more elaborate, with many shots of the doctors, and scalpels, and the machines in the operating theater. But we shot the actual operation first, the shot that is in the film, a few days before principal photography started, because it took a lot of preparation, and there’s a lot of protocol, and everything had to be sterilized. It was the first shot we did, it was the first shot of the film, and as soon as I saw it I just felt that I didn’t need to shoot anything else.


Ten years ago, while sitting at my computer in my sparsely furnished office, I sent my first email to a literary agent. The message included a query letter—a brief synopsis describing the personal-essay collection I’d been working on for the past six years, as well as a short bio about myself. As my third child kicked from inside my pregnant belly, I fantasized about what would come next: a request from the agent to see my book proposal, followed by a dream phone call offering me representation. If all went well, I’d be on my way to becoming a published author by the time my oldest child started first grade.
Things didn’t go as planned. I spent the next several years querying agents while writing other books. I read blogs and interviews to get the latest industry news and figure out which agent was looking for what kind of project. I attended several dozen writers’ conferences, residencies, workshops, craft lectures, book festivals, and readings. I joined critique groups and exchanged work over email with countless writer friends. For my novels, I hired freelance developmental editors (one of them a former senior editor at a major publishing house). I enrolled in and graduated from an MFA program in creative writing. And yes, I did get that coveted offer of representation—twice. My first agent tried her damnedest to sell my second nonfiction book, but after two years we amicably parted ways. My second agent and I weren’t a good fit, so we split up earlier in the process.
Today, six manuscripts languish on my laptop—two nonfiction books, two novels, and two picture books. My older children are now teens, and my youngest, the one I was pregnant with when I started this journey, a fourth grader. In the meantime, I’ve managed to forge a rewarding career as a freelance writer, editor, and teacher. My essays, articles, and book reviews have appeared in publications I could never have dreamed of writing for: The New York Times, The Washington Post, NPR, The Guardian, and NBC. Despite all this, I’m no closer to getting a book deal.
So after 16 years of writing books and 10 years of failing to find a publisher, why do I keep trying? I ask myself this every day.
* * *
My books have been living in my head for more than a decade. I have had tea with the characters, argued with them, and begged them to get over their hang-ups. While writing articles or teaching, I’m simultaneously rethinking passages or entire chapters of my books. A walk through the woods is an excuse for me to mull over how to tighten my prose, increase the suspense, flesh out a scene, or dig deeper emotionally. It’s a dual life, with one foot in reality and the other in the worlds of my stories.
Some of my resolve to get published stems from my ego. Aren’t my words important? Isn’t there something of value here? Wouldn’t this story bring joy or peace to a reader? Another part of me craves having a visceral connection to an audience; it’s isolating to keep these stories to myself, to experience them alone.
I’ve continued to endure the submission process—especially as I’ve grown more disillusioned—in large part because I have the financial means to do so. My spouse’s income and health insurance allow me to manage a chronic medical condition, co-parent three children, write, edit, and teach without needing to hold down an additional job. I can control how often I submit and work around other life obligations.
The truth is, my dedication to getting a book deal has been expensive. Each local writing conference costs about $250, and I’ve attended six. Over the decade, I’ve spent approximately $5,000 paying top-notch editors to carefully critique my work. My two-year, low-residency MFA program cost in the neighborhood of $26,000. Learning about the craft of writing and the business side of publishing can be an outrageously costly endeavor, one that not every writer can afford (or, necessarily, needs).
Over the years, I’ve come to accept the significant roles that luck and timing play in publishing success stories. Sometimes it’s a matter of sending a query at the exact moment an agent or editor is looking for a book about a particular issue. Sometimes it’s about winning a contest or writing an intriguing article or viral blog post that catches the eye of an editor. Indeed, several essays published in The New York Times’s Modern Love column have led to book deals.
One of my books received more than 30 requests for full manuscripts from agents and multiple offers of representation, but my relationship with my agent didn’t work out. Meanwhile, some of my author friends who signed with the first agent they queried ended up with book deals in just months. I remember a conversation I had with a writer friend about four years ago, both of us hungry for contracts. She was impressed that I had already finished multiple books, and was, at the time, represented by a prestigious literary agency. Today, I still don’t have a deal, and her debut novel is coming out next year.
Some 571 million print books were sold in 2015, 17 million more than the year before. In 2016, book sales held steady. Even though the market for books appears, at the very least, to be stable, in the years I’ve tried to sell a manuscript, things seem to have gotten tougher. My writing has improved substantially, but fewer agents and editors are interested in my work.
Keeping perspective has been key for me: remembering that editors and agents are overworked and underpaid, and literary fiction, generally speaking, does not generate big sales. As a result, presses are very selective, even if their criteria can seem opaque. “There aren’t a certain number of slots to be filled, with publishers working to figure out who to stick into those slots,” the literary agent Chip MacGregor wrote in a blog post. “Nearly every publisher I know is simply looking for good books that fit their lines, and that they can sell and make money.”  
Self-publishing can be a popular and accessible option for writers who wish to bypass the traditional route altogether. But while there are some wild success stories in self-publishing, they tend to be genre works—romance, erotica, science fiction, crime, young adult, and Christian lit. I’ve yet to meet an author who felt their self-published literary novel or memoir generated enough sales to make up for the amount of time and money spent marketing them. And as a literary critic, I know that very few editors are willing to run book reviews for self-published works; I don’t want to spend years writing and revising a book if not even my local paper will cover it.
The Book He Wasn't Supposed to Write
When it comes to coping with the stress that inevitably comes with seeking a book deal, writers’ communities are an aspiring author’s life jacket. Whether online or in-person, these groups help us navigate the submission process, set realistic goals, and simply provide sympathy and support. When I first began writing seriously 16 years ago, I attended informal gatherings at writers’ homes and in libraries and bookstores, eventually finding organizations offering more formal craft lectures and workshops. More recently, the explosion of social media has made networking easier. Under the Twitter hashtag #amwriting, writers announce daily word counts, publishing successes, and link to articles about the industry. Facebook performs a similar function. “I’ve curated my Facebook feed so that it’s almost all writers and readers,” said Nayomi Munaweera, the author of the novels Island of a Thousand Mirrors and What Lies Between Us, who submitted for seven and a half years before acquiring a book deal. “I get a great deal of affirmation and support there.”
These online communities can be especially vital for writers from backgrounds that continue to be severely underrepresented in the publishing industry. Twitter hashtags like #DVpit (short for “diversity pitch”) and #OwnVoices help writers from marginalized communities find agents. My own South Asian writing community has helped me through the process of trying to sell a book. We trade horror stories of our experiences with rejection and culturally insensitive comments by agents or editors who express that they wish we wrote more (or less) about racism, featured fewer (or more) non-English words in the manuscript, and questioned why our South Asian characters would eat pizza. But we’re there to cheer each other on, pizza-eating characters and all, finding solidarity and humor in our shared failures.
* * *
“Why am I still trying to get a book deal?” is a question that haunts other writers in my position, too. Bettye Kearse, a retired pediatrician, has been working to get one of her four books published—three picture books and a nonfiction book—since about 2005. “I have thought about quitting,” Kearse told me in an email. “I acknowledge spending 27 years writing and rewriting the same book doesn’t make sense.” Kearse came very close to getting a deal for her nonfiction book, but soon after the acquiring editor sent her a contract, he was fired. “That experience was the worst, to get so close, then to end up with nothing,” Kearse said.
“[Being on submission] was like a slow mauling of my psyche,” another writer, Michael Bourne, told me. A contributing editor to Poets & Writers and a critic for The Globe and Mail, he’s been trying to sell two literary novels on and off since 2004. His second book got him an agent, who then couldn’t sell the work to a publisher. “A week or two would go by, and then, bam, I’d wake up to another email [regarding another rejection] from my agent kicking me in the teeth. When it was all over, I spent a few months staying up late writing sad-boy essays about what it felt like to watch your dreams crash to earth,” Bourne said. But like me, he had found healthy perspective. “I have a solid base of family life and paying work, with enough time to write that I can probably write a book every five years or so,” he said. “I’m fairly confident my work will get published eventually, but if it doesn’t, it won’t kill me. I’m still going to write.”
Despite not getting a book deal after 10 years, I’m happy with the career I’ve built. Rejections still flood my inbox, but my smaller successes go a long way toward offsetting the disappointment. Last year after the presidential election, I decided to shift my priorities, to spend more time volunteering for social causes and political campaigns and less pursuing traditional book publishing. I haven’t stopped submitting, but once a month—and only once a month—I send out a single query letter to an agent or small press. My complicated spreadsheet of submissions collects dust in a filing cabinet. I’ve disappeared from Facebook groups where other aspiring authors recount the highs and lows of submission. By recalibrating, I’ve regained a small amount of control in a process that has very little predictability.
My dream of seeing one of my books sitting on a shelf in a library will never fade completely. Maybe in a few months I’ll ramp up my submissions again. Maybe I’ll maintain this slower approach for the rest of my life. But for now, I’m doing what works for me. It’s not the ending I’d hoped for, but it’s a happier, more balanced path.


The Years With Graydon
David Kamp | Vanity Fair
“There are a lot of people at V.F. who have been with Graydon for all or most of his tenure, and some, like me, who have worked alongside him even longer. You don’t engender that kind of loyalty simply by offering a good benefits package. … Graydon has always possessed a showman’s charisma, a persuasive ability to make you believe, to use one of his stock lines, that This is the best job you’re ever going to have.”
Best Pictures, Maybe, but Telluride Is Not About Oscars
A.O. Scott | The New York Times
“Spending time at a film festival is like living inside an accordion. Time expands and contracts—months are compressed into a few hours of screen time, and a day of screenings lasts a week—and you can’t always extract the music from the noise. The Telluride Film Festival, which spans each Labor Day weekend in this high-altitude former mining town, is an old-time squeeze box wired up to a Dolby sound system.”
John Legend: ‘Trump Is an Embarrassment to the Country’
Lauren Duca | The Guardian
“Legend and [Chrissy] Teigen have a massive amount of agency in their careers, although that doesn’t mean there aren’t compromises. As a mainstream star, Legend is well aware that a careful balance between art and commerce is crucial to his continued success. A lot of artists are rather precious when discussing this aspect of songwriting. Legend is refreshingly frank.”
This Is for Boston
Isaiah Thomas | The Players’ Tribune
“I may act like a tough guy on the court. And I may seem like I have ice in my veins when I’m competing. But it ain’t ice, really. I got blood and I got a heart like everyone else. And so when I say this hurts, man—just know that it isn’t because of anything anyone else did. It’s only because of something I did. I fell in love with Boston.”
Aaron Rodgers and Gossip Girl: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
Kevin Smith’s Celebrity Reboot
Abraham Riesman | Vulture
“Kevin Smith has used his second act to craft a new-model utopia of modern fame, one built on niche interests, a direct line to fans, and an unmistakably unique voice. At one time, Smith seemed to represent a new model of filmmaking: cheap, lewd, bracing, and provocative. Now he’s again at the center of a new model: the business of niche audiences and narrowcasting directly to fans. … He just might exemplify the future of celebrity.”
Christina Tosi Has a Cookie
Mary H.K. Choi | Eater
“As accessible or sentimental as her food tastes, it requires a fiercely analytical and precise mind to make a Milk Bar Birthday Cake reminiscent of an old-school birthday cake from a box. This is why Milk Bar recipes are exhaustive, harrowingly convoluted ways of getting to a particular flavor destination from our collective youths. Liberating textures or flavors that would otherwise stay trapped inside the minds of Nabisco food scientists is not easy.”
Historical Art or Racist Propaganda? How Should Hollywood Handle Problematic Classic Like Gone With the Wind?
Tre’vell Anderson | The Los Angeles Times
“Films ranging from D.W. Griffith’s silent-era The Birth of a Nation (in which members of the Ku Klux Klan are portrayed as heroes) and Nazi sympathizer Leni Riefenstahl’s Triumph of the Will have long been subject to debate. … While these pictures can be considered art and each has historical significance, they can also be recognized as sentimentalizing or implicitly endorsing behavior now thought to be reprehensible.”
The Courageous Radicalism of Kate Millett
Maggie Doherty | New Republic
“Millett didn’t stop at the social; culture, too, played a role in shoring up patriarchy. A Victorianist by training, Millett also analyzed how male writers, both canonical and contemporary, portrayed heterosexual relations; she found that all too often, male literature suggested that men had a right to dominate women—politically, socially, sexually.”


Don’t Miss
The Remarkable Rise of Tiffany Haddish—Michael P. Jeffries writes that the standup and Girls Trip star’s success points to how comedy has—and hasn’t—changed for women and entertainers of color.
Film
Why Is Hollywood Developing Three Different Joker Movies?—David Sims believes the flurry of news about multiple films featuring Batman’s chief villain shows just how desperate the industry is becoming.
33 Movies to Watch This Oscar Season—David Sims looks at the buzzy biopics and indie hits filling theaters over the next few months.
It: A Solid but Conventional Shocker—Christopher Orr thinks the latest adaptation of Stephen King’s classic horror novel privileges CGI scares over dread and nuance.
Rebel in the Rye Is Phony Through and Through—David Sims says Danny Strong’s directorial debut starring Nicholas Hoult as J.D. Salinger misses the mark in trying to capture his unique talent.
TV
The Deuce Is Magnificent Television—Sophie Gilbert enjoys the new HBO show from David Simon and George Pelecanos, calling it the rightful heir to The Wire.
David Lynch Found the Perfect Ending for Twin Peaks—David Sims wraps up the 18-episode Showtime revival, which gave audiences both a tidy conclusion and a messy, dreamlike unraveling of everything that came before it.
Turning the Trump Era Into a Horror Story—Spencer Kornhaber ponders the FX anthology series AHS: Cult, which channels liberal anxieties for a gory, queasy romp.
29 New TV Shows to Watch This Fall—Sophie Gilbert breaks down the upcoming additions to an already packed television schedule, including The Deuce, American Horror Story, and Alias Grace.
Music
The National’s Super-Political Love Songs—Spencer Kornhaber talks to the singer and lyricist Matt Berninger about his band’s adventurous, election-influenced new album.
29 New Albums to Listen to This Fall—Spencer Kornhaber previews the most anticipated records of the season, from Miley Cyrus to Kamasi Washington.
Art
The Sad, Ecstatic Passions of Carol Rama—Jane Yong Kim reviews an exhibit focused on the self-taught Italian artist who explored the female body and its social context with curiosity and urgency.
Writing
More Than 100 Exceptional Works of Journalism—Conor Friedersdorf rounds up fantastic nonfiction from 2016 that’s still worth discovering and pondering today.
Theater
The Ferryman: Jez Butterworth on the Legacy of Hate—Sophie Gilbert watches the playwright and screenwriter’s new London hit, which is set during the Troubles in 1981 Ireland but considers timeless issues.
Sports
The Four Quarterbacks to Watch This NFL Season—Robert O’Connell highlights a rookie, a comeback hopeful, a virtuoso, and an all-time great as the players fans should be paying attention to in the coming year.


Midway through the first episode of The Deuce, premiering on HBO Sunday night, Candy (Maggie Gyllenhaal), a veteran sex worker, explains to a nervous teenage client whose encounter with her has ended prematurely why he can’t try again without paying for it. “It doesn’t seem fair,” the boy complains, evolving from shy nervousness to nasty petulance in a blink. Candy asks what his father does, and when the teenager replies that he owns a car dealership, she issues a free lesson in the principles of work. If his father sells a car, she explains, “he doesn’t give the easy customer two cars for the price of one, right? This is my job, Stewart.”
It’s a scene that’s characteristic of David Simon. Candy, distilling the tenets of capitalism from micro to macroeconomics, could be Stringer Bell lecturing street dealers on supply and demand. And The Deuce, like The Wire, is about infinitely more than the industry it’s profiling—in this case, sex in 1970s Times Square rather than drugs in early-aughts Baltimore. There are familiar faces, too (the kick from seeing Cheese and Chris Partlow in bell-bottoms would be worth the HBO subscription alone). But it’s in the scope of its story and the complexity of its characters that The Deuce (created by Simon and George Pelecanos) comes the closest to Simon’s earlier masterpiece. It’s about the sex trade, but also about the weirdness of human sexuality; there are Mafiosi gangsters, and corrupt cops, and selfish journalists, and new pornographers. The playing field is different but the game—and the rules—are the same.
29 New TV Shows to Watch This Fall
That’s not to say it’s perfect. The eight episodes that make up the first season are clear preamble for the main story to be told later, a maddening hallmark of streaming shows that appears to be catching on with episodic TV. The fact that James Franco plays not one primary character but two—twin brothers Vincent and Frankie Martino—feels intended to make some kind of point about duality and nature/nurture that’s presumably being saved for a subsequent season. Visually, though, the show is richer than anything Simon’s done before, thanks in large part to Michelle MacLaren, the Breaking Bad and Game of Thrones alumna who directed the first and last episode. Painstakingly, with everything from typography to body hair, the show recreates 1971 Midtown Manhattan in all its seamy, squalid disorder.
The 90-minute pilot, made available to stream in August, is maybe the series’s finest episode, setting up the manifold characters and their various arcs with a structure that loosens considerably later on. In the first scene, a drunken man in a bar cajoles the woman he’s sitting with to “give me something I can’t get at home”—an early explanation for the thriving prostitution industry in the stretch of 42nd Street known as “the Deuce.” Vincent (James Franco), the bartender, works double shifts in bars on both sides of the river to support his feckless wife (Zoe Kazan) and their two children. He’s further beleaguered by his twin brother Frankie (also Franco), a profligate gambler who’s distinguishable from Vincent only in his gum chewing and his radiant, jittery douchebag energy.
Thanks to his night job in a Korean restaurant near Times Square, Vincent is well acquainted with the pimps, panderers, and professionals who work nearby: C.C. (Gary Carr), a genial smooth-talker; Larry (Gbenga Akinnagbe), a surlier but more conflicted individual; Rodney (Method Man/Clifford Smith); Reggie Love (Tariq “Black Thought” Trotter); and Gentle Richie (Matthew James Ballinger), the lone white guy, a hippie prone to spouting aphorisms about capitalism. The men engage in banter about politics and business (Nixon, Rodney and Larry agree in one scene, is a pimp himself), and they physically and emotionally abuse their stables of women, from the budding reader Darlene (Show Me a Hero’s Dominique Fishback) to the deceptively savvy newcomer Lori (Emily Meade).
Just as The Wire manipulated prurient curiosity about drug dealers in decaying Baltimore communities to slyly make points about social inequity and injustice, The Deuce relies on a titillating subject—sex for sale—to hook viewers. But the sex on display is anything but arousing. The show (like the recent Hulu drama Harlots) navigates a complicated path between showing the reality of sex work and somehow keeping the action from being impossibly depressing. It’s as often funny as it’s brutal, and yet the two modes don’t undermine each other. Candy’s initiation into the world of porn, for example, is a money shot that involves cold Campbell’s potato soup and a Macgyvered pumping device.
There are labyrinthine plots and subplots involving an honest cop, Officer Alston (Lawrence Gilliard Jr., a.k.a. D’Angelo Barksdale), an ambitious reporter (Natalie Paul), an outspoken NYU student (Margarita Levieva), and a Mafia capo (Michael Rispoli) who engages Vincent and Frankie in his bid to clean up Times Square—by moving the street action into lucrative indoor parlors. Franco, who directs the third episode, anchors the action, making Vincent plausibly decent, although possessing some less obvious flaws. But it’s Gyllenhaal, as Candy, who takes the series to a different level. She’s luminous onscreen, exuding Candy’s washed-out, sluggish demeanor, her world-weariness, and the unexpected energy she derives from making films—not as a star, but as a creator. In many of her scenes, Candy is seen by viewers as a reflection looking into a mirror, ostensibly tweaking her makeup or covering bruises, but the image that comes across is of someone trying to really perceive what she’s become.
Before agreeing to play Candy, Gyllenhaal reportedly asked for some influence over her character, and it’s her scenes that take the show in its most explicitly feminist direction. Simon and Pelecanos seem to have realized, too, that a show about the sex trade needs to have a strong female point of view. (“We realized, to try to do the story, two middle-aged straight guys, it just wasn’t going to work with just us,” Pelecanos told UpRoxx’s Alan Sepinwall.) There’s a riotous scene in the diner where the women disgust their pimps by talking about their periods, but there’s also a deeply rooted sympathy for the reality, the tedium, and the danger of their daily lives. The Deuce is unfailingly candid and thoughtful about misogyny, and the legion forms in which it manifests.
This narrative nuance is all wrapped up in an aesthetic that’s part Taxi Driver, part Super Fly. The gaudy ostentatiousness of the era helps communicate Simon’s point that the core of the sex industry is exploitation, and it filters from top to bottom, with hardly anyone empowered. Vincent persuades his waitresses to wear leotards to bring in business; Candy seduces shy actresses to get a better take; the mobsters give the women safer environments to work in so they can take a cut of their labor. In the final episode, Lori observes Linda Lovelace (Heather Cole), starry-eyed, and imagines the promise and liberation of porn’s golden age. The kicker is that Simon, and his viewers, really know what happened next.


I spoke with Matt Berninger of The National on August 21, just as the solar eclipse was casting its shadow over the eastern United States. He’d been on the phone most of the day in Los Angeles and missed the celestial phenomenon, but nonetheless had a metaphor for the moment. “When Trump won it felt like the sky changed color a little bit, and literally that’s what’s happening right now as we speak,” he said with a laugh. “It’s pretty creepy.”
The National have been putting out albums of sumptuous, introspective rock for 16 years, and their seventh, Sleep Well Beast, should continue to grow their acclaim and fandom. It should also continue to get the band and its distinctively deep-voiced singer tagged as “gloomy,” a fair description given the album’s stated theme of divorce and straightforwardly devastating highlights like “Empire Line” and “Guilty Party.” But Sleep Well Beast, out Friday, is also one of The National’s liveliest albums yet, featuring pitter-pattering drum machines, scorching guitar licks, and Berninger experimenting with delivery styles.

One of the best lyricists of this era, Berninger writes in free-associative code that, with repeated listening, reveals fine portraits of self-doubt and desperation. Until talking with him, I hadn’t realized just how much of Sleep Well Beast had been shaped by recent politics. The National campaigned for both Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, and Berninger believes that the same dark, personal impulses he always sings about can explain Donald Trump’s rise. This conversation has been edited.
Kornhaber: There’s a sample or spoken-word segment about “the reality-based community” losing their power on the Sleep Well Beast track “Walk It Back.” What is that?
Berninger: Well, according to Wikipedia, it’s Karl Rove who said that to [the journalist] Ron Suskind, but I don’t think he officially admits to having said that. After Trump won, I just chewed on it over and over again. It’s basically someone saying, “Yeah, we know what we’re doing. If we can control people’s understanding of what is true then we get to do whatever the fuck we want.” That’s been the secret strategy for a long, long time.
Kornhaber: So what is that quote doing on what sounds, to me, like a song about a relationship?
Berninger: I don’t think of one song as being a relationship song and one being a politics song. It’s one big giant bowl of stuff for me. “Fake Empire” [from 2007’s Boxer] is a political song, but it’s also a song about getting fucked up and avoiding responsibility in life. It’s a drinking song, too.
Politics is personal. I don’t understand why people separate love and politics in their art—and I don’t know who does. We don’t expect people who write novels to be like, “Oh, this chapter is the political chapter and over here is the love chapter.”  Somewhere along the line, musicians felt it was uncool to be political. It never made any sense to me. Who’s cooler than Nina Simone? And why would you take it out of your toolbox of stuff to write about?
Kornhaber: But when you think about the world, you think about the dynamics of politics being the same as the dynamics of relationships?
Berninger: How you respect yourself or someone else in the most immediate relationship is political. If somebody sitting next to you in a movie theater is eating popcorn in a way that bugs you, your choice to go, “ugh, shut up,” or your choice not to do that is political. How you treat your wife is political.
LCD Soundsystem's Oddly Inspiring Flip-Flop
I’m a big believer that the tiniest little things you do have a significant effect: “I’ll do the brave, kind thing versus the self-serving, ego-driven fear thing that gets me the piece of pizza or the tax cut or anything else.” When you choose to do the small thing, the petty thing, the selfish thing, it affects everything.
If you go out and look at political songs and political signs, so many of them come back to the same thing about kindness and gentle hearts. So love songs are super political to me, and political songs are super romantic.
Kornhaber: You sing a lot about sleep on this album. It’s in the title, the first single is about dreaming, and you seem to be addressing someone who’s asleep a lot of the time. What are you getting at?
Berninger: Trauma causes lots of reactions, and a lot of times we have to shut down for a while. I was kind of fascinated with that. There’s a time where you stare at the ceiling and think, “If I can just get some sleep, when I wake up something will have resolved itself.” And often it helps! Dreams are a way of expressing some dark fear we’ve got to get out one way or another.
In that sense we are in some sort of bad dream right now—I mean that kind of literally. Our American conscience went to a very sleepy place, and we allowed Donald Trump to become our president. It’s not just America; we’ve all been letting the planet get so sick. The beast [as in “Sleep Well Beast”] is the future, the truth. It’s about to come back, I hope.
Kornhaber: On a songwriting level, I listen to a song like “Guilty Party” and it feels so much more direct than some of your past work. Is that true or am I missing something?
Berninger: That’s an example of a song where it’s a real simple thing: Unpack one little idea and all the shades of that idea. “Guilty Party,” that’s a breakup song. It’s kind of about my marriage, but my wife and I are not broken up, and I think we have a healthy marriage most days. It’s also kind of about the band—that’s a relationship that is hard to maintain and not lose sight of why you’re doing it. So “marriage” comprises a lot of different things.  The tone was intentionally supposed to be kind of unencumbered by flourishes, and I didn’t want to overwrite.
There’s a sketch called “Black Barn” that split into two different songs, “Sleep Well Beast” and “Guilty Party.” They’re the same beat but the one [count] is in the different place. “Guilty Party” is like the good-looking, popular twin. I hear that and instantly I’m like, “That song just works.” Whereas “Sleep Well Beast” is the moody twin that sits in the corner and reads books and doesn’t try to date the prettiest girl in the class.

Kornhaber: Can you talk about the dynamic of writing with your wife [Carin Besser, co-credited for all the lyrics and melodies on Sleep Well Beast]? Is it therapeutic or tension-causing or both?
Berninger: Obviously both. We started writing together the minute we started dating. “What do you do?” “Oh, I make websites and rock songs and martinis. What do you make?” [She] was a poet and a writer and an editor. So we just started sharing our creative stuff right away. I would let her listen to demos, and she’d give ideas on how to make it better on every level.
Here’s an example. “The System Only Dreams in Total Darkness” was a totally different song. We were supposed to be finished with it, and the band was fighting about what was wrong with it. It was late in New York and it was a little earlier in L.A., and she called me and she said, “You know, I think the problem with that one is the lyrics.” She went and opened up old Garage Band sessions and found something where I mumbled about the system sleeping in darkness. She was like, “That’s a way better chorus, let’s build from there.”

She’s outside of the crucible, and the other guys know she makes me way better as a writer. She’s had two nicknames. One has been Yoko, ever since we met, and that sometimes stings and sometimes it’s fun. We all have hurtful nicknames for each other. But they also refer to her as The Oracle.
Kornhaber: Who is Valentine Jester [a name mentioned on the new song “Day I Die” and 2005’s “Val Jester”]? Is that a real uncle of yours?
Berninger: Yeah, my mom’s uncle. He was a bachelor who moved in with my mom’s mom and lived with her the whole time I knew him. He loved television, dominoes, and beer. And for some reason I always write about him. He was always a sweet, happy man—but too many beers he would turn into a cranky guy who didn’t want to hang out at the family reunion. He loved to skip the fuck out. I’ve always respected that. He didn’t want to do what everybody thought he should do in his life.
Kornhaber: Why keep invoking him?
Berninger: He’s a spirit animal a little bit. I didn’t know him well, but he’s a character in my brain, the idea of my uncle Valentine Jester. I can’t even remember how old I was when he died. I don’t know how old he was either. But he had a profound effect. That, for me, is afterlife, y’know? That’s heaven.
Kornhaber: I want to ask about white maleness.
Berninger: Excellent, yes!
Kornhaber: Some people, not all of whom are fans of yours, have held you guys up as a very stereotypical kind of white male band. I’ve picked up on a little self-awareness about that through your whole career, but what do you think?
Berninger: No one needs any more of our stories. Everyone knows what it’s like to be a white man, because every lead actor in 99 percent of stories being told has been a white man. So yes, I’m very conscious of it. If I’m going to try to write and make art, I’m going to have to be aware of the fact that everyone knows what white dudes’ problems are. I at least have to be talking about it more directly and in a different way.
It’s not like I’m ashamed of being a white man, or being a man. Let me put it this way. I was raised Catholic. And it’s obviously a really oppressive religion to women. But also institutionalized religions are just generally repressive. The kind of guilt I had as a kid about dirty magazines because of the Catholic church—I had so much self-loathing. And I’m right at Broadway: a white, straight, American dude from the Midwest. Nobody’s coming for me. To be aware of that, and to then try to write songs where you are overly sympathizing with your own issues—it’s scary territory, feeling sorry for yourself. It’s definitely thin ice that I’m on.
Kornhaber: It is something you make fun of sometimes. I think of that song “I’m the Man to Be” from the El Vy record [Berninger’s side project].
Berninger: Yeah, that song is a cathartic expression of celebrating your own most ridiculous, self-aggrandizing impulses. I do that a lot. “All the Wine” [from 2005’s Alligator] is the same song. They’re self-deprecating portraits of me puffing myself up because I’m so clearly filled with self-loathing. People always ask me, “Why do you always mention your dick in songs?” I’m like, “Because I’m probably insecure as a lover! Why are you asking? Of course!” I’m not pro-dick.
Kornhaber: In “Turtleneck,” you sing about a rich male savior of the poor who’s wearing a shitty suit. Were you thinking of anyone specific there?
Berninger: Obviously, Trump is Trump. Trump is what it is, and it’s evolving every five minutes. You know at the end of Terminator 2? When the liquid terminator turns into a demon and a man and it’s screaming as it’s dying. I feel like Donald Trump, and the Republican party, is in those last moments of when the Terminator is screeching. That is my brother’s hopeful interpretation.
Hopefully it’s the death throes of an illness of America. The racism, the sexism, but it’s also the self-hatred. Our country has these puritanical values, and we’ve repressed ourselves because it’s a way of controlling. When you make people feel guilty about something, sex or whatever it is, you control their sense of what defines them as being better than other people. Religion infects people with this idea of superiority. And it’s not Jesus’s.
Kornhaber: Going back to the album, which you’ve said is pretty dark, is there a happy ending on this album?
Berninger: I don’t think of a record as having an ending—movies and books have an ending. But I do think about our records as being ultimately really optimistic and positive things just because they make me feel better. It feels good to make a rock song out of this ugly mess. I sleep better having made some art out of the fact that I didn’t know how to deal with my own self-loathing about being a horny white man afraid to cross the street.
Kornhaber: Speaking of sex being at the the core of all our dark desires: Leonard Cohen. You have a reference to him with the song title “Dark Side of the Gym.” What do you take from him?
Berninger: He wrote about sex, he wrote about God, he wrote about politics, all within the same verse. And they all were these beautiful, personal little stories. Everything feels so humongous, but then they also have all these little details.
“Famous Blue Raincoat” is the one I go back to just because it’s like The Great Gatsby or Lolita. That song has so many little details—about a house in the desert, and a lock of hair, and all this kind of stuff—but it’s so big. That song is just a giant, complex story that I don’t quite understand.
He’s one of 20 songwriters that I steal from. Tom Waits, Leonard Cohen, Nick Cave—people like that really go right to the most sensitive parts of the skin. Which are the wires that are frayed and sparking? Those are the ones they’ll put their wet hand on. Because they just have to. It’s the only wire in the room that matters, the one that might burn the place down.


Every 27 years it rises again to stalk the countryside and bring terror to children. I refer, of course, to Pennywise, the diabolical kid-eating clown first made famous in Stephen King’s 1986 horror novel, It. But I also refer to It itself, which was last seen as a two-part miniseries in 1990 and has now returned as a feature film by the Argentine director Andy Muschietti, best known for his 2013 movie Mama.
I recently revisited the old miniseries and found it to be a Spielberg-y throwback to the vibes of 1980s cinema—a bit like last year’s Netflix thriller Stranger Things. The difference, of course, is that Stranger Things, which returns for a second season next month, is consciously (and brilliantly) aping all those old ’80s tropes. The It miniseries, by contrast, couldn’t help but embody them: It did, after all, feature both John Ritter and Harry Anderson in central roles.
How Stephen King Teaches Writing
Unlike the miniseries, Muschietti’s film has opted to tell only half of King’s sprawling novel. That story began in 1957 in the town of Derry, Maine, with the murder of a young boy, Georgie Denbrough. Georgie’s preteen brother Bill, along with a group of fellow misfits who dub themselves the Losers Club, uncovered that Georgie’s death, and others, had taken place at the hands of Pennywise, an ageless and shape-shifting force of evil with a particular fondness for circuswear. The kids defeated the demon and pledged that if it ever returned they would come back to Derry to stop it again. The latter part of the novel took place in 1984, when Pennywise did in fact make his cicada-like reappearance and faced his final destruction at the hands of the now-40ish Losers.
Muschietti’s movie tells only the first “chapter” of the saga—there are plans for a sequel that will tell the second one—and he has moved the action forward to take place in 1988 and 1989. The odd result is that this telling, too, feels eerily like Stranger Things, albeit with considerably more gore splashed around: the same  campy-creepy decade; the same premise about kids trying to solve a paranormal mystery; even the protagonists’ same underlying (and, as a child of the ’80s, I can confirm entirely accurate) philosophy of action: When in doubt, jump on your bike and ride somewhere, anywhere. It doesn’t help at all—indeed, it exacerbates the disorienting but inevitable comparisons—that Finn Wolfhard, who plays one of the Losers in It, is also one of the child-protagonists of Stranger Things. (Muschietti has explained that this is entirely a coincidence; he did not see Stranger Things, which aired while he was in the middle of production, until after completing his film.)
The story, as any fan of the book or miniseries could tell you, begins with the most ill-fated paper boat in all of cinema. A rainstorm is sweeping Derry, and young Bill (Jaeden Lieberher), though too ill to go outside himself, carefully folds a construction-paper boat for little brother Georgie to play with. The latter delights in chasing the boat down the overflowing curb-streams of the neighborhood until it slips down a storm drain. There awaits Pennywise, who proceeds to bite off the boy’s arm before dragging him into the sewer. Poor Georgie. We scarcely knew you.
And so it begins. Pennywise starts haunting Bill and the other Losers (played by Wolfhard, Sophia Lillis, Jeremy Ray Taylor, Chosen Jacobs, Wyatt Oleff, and Jack Dylan Grazer) by appearing as the embodiments of their darkest fears: an eruption of blood from a bathroom sink, a painting come to life, a club-footed leper. These hauntings eventually lead the gang to a creepy old abandoned house that sits atop a well to the sewers—a perfect horror twofer if ever there was one.
The young performers are good across the board (in particular Lieberher, Lillis, and Wolfhard), and manage the tricky feat of carrying a film with no meaningful adult lead. In this, they resemble the cast of the King-story-based Stand By Me, and indeed many of the movie’s best moments revolve around the complicated navigations of adolescence more than the gruesome machinations of Pennywise. (There’s a nice nod to a screening of A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 tucked in there, as well as several to the far-greater horror of New Kids on the Block.)
As Pennywise, Bill Skarsgård—son of the actor Stellan—sports a frilled collar, white skin, and high forehead that recall the Elizabethan ideal of female beauty. The result is a monster coyer and less overtly clown-like than the 1990 Tim Curry version, though one, I suspect, that will ultimately prove less memorable.
Nor are the terrors of Derry limited to the many guises of Pennywise. Though the streets are lovely, darkness lurks behind its doors: an abusive father; a jealously protective mother; a posse of exceptionally murderous bullies. (It’s no coincidence that the best onscreen adaptations of King tend to focus on such human complications and abjure the supernatural altogether: The Shawshank Redemption, Stand By Me, Misery, etc.)
It is here, on the level of metaphor, that Muschietti’s film unexpectedly disappoints. One of the themes of King’s novel, and the original miniseries, was the deep-seated complicity of Derry’s adults in the atrocities committed by Pennywise. They were unable, in the literal sense, to see the visions he inflicted upon the children of the town. But, more broadly, they refused to acknowledge that anything unusual was taking place at all, even as the disappearance of one child was quickly superseded by the disappearance of another.
Muschietti nods lightly toward this idea, but despite his movie’s 135-minute running time, he prefers to devote his footage to the many CGI-enhanced transformations of Pennywise (including the way his jaw distends impossibly to reveal row after row of dagger-teeth, an image that has grown all too common in horror and sci-fi fare). This privileging of the Big Scare over the deeper dread is a particular letdown coming from Muschietti, whose Mama was a far moodier, more evocative entrant in the genre.
What we’re left with is a solid but relatively conventional horror movie, above average but overlong—especially given the decision to limit its scope to half of King’s novel. But the hoped-for sequel is quite clearly advertised at the film’s conclusion, which announces that it constitutes “Chapter One,” and closes with the iconic pledge that Bill demands of his fellow Losers: “Swear: If it isn’t dead, if it ever comes back, we’ll come back too.” I’m afraid I can make no such promise.


Jerry (Nicholas Hoult), the outspoken new student in Whit Burnett’s (Kevin Spacey) creative writing class at Columbia, isn’t your average writer. He speaks out of turn, offers haughty responses to constructive criticism, and refuses to kowtow to even the simplest notes on his work, lest it constrain his creativity. You see, Jerry is a young man blessed with extraordinary talent that will later catapult him to success. How do we know? Because his real name is J.D. Salinger, and the subject of the short story he’s writing is named Holden Caulfield.
The new film about Salinger’s career, Rebel in the Rye, is a work of searing mediocrity about an author who was horrified by the very idea of mediocrity, eventually sealing himself away from public life rather than subject his work to mainstream scrutiny. Written and directed by Danny Strong, the Hollywood scripter behind true-story movies like The Butler, Recount, and Game Change, Rebel in the Rye is immediately and passionately convinced of its hero’s genius before he’s written a line or uttered a word of dialogue. Strong seems to believe Salinger’s name, and his salty attitude, are enough to convince the audience of his talent. Why else would the director not devote a single moment in the film’s 105-minute running time to trying to understand what distinguished the young author from his contemporaries?
Salinger and the Perils of Privacy
Rebel in the Rye offers a cursory glance at every stage of Salinger’s career, including his time at Columbia, his service in World War II, his emergence as a short-story writer for The New Yorker, the 1951 publication of The Catcher in the Rye and its overwhelming success, and his later retreat into total seclusion in New Hampshire. Based on J.D. Salinger: A Life by Kenneth Slawenski, the movie sticks to the formula of Strong’s other scripts, focusing on major moments in the life of a public figure rather than concentrating on any one period in history. In Rebel in the Rye, Strong leaves the work of establishing Salinger’s genius to the ensemble around him, who consistently and loudly praise how exceptional his work is.
Dramatizing the creative process, particularly that of a writer, is never easy to do on film. Strong’s concept, as much as I could understand it, is that Salinger’s youthful attitude ended up mirroring the startling rebelliousness of his most famous character, Holden Caulfield. That’s as close as Strong gets to showing how Salinger drew inspiration from the world around him, though there’s very little mention of any of his other works, particularly his short stories about the Glass family, beyond their titles.
But Salinger is hardly the most dynamic protagonist, and he’s certainly not interesting enough to come across as a generational talent. Strong takes the audience through some early aspects of the writer’s biography, like his romance with Eugene O’Neill’s daughter Oona (Zoey Deutch) and his early rejections from The New Yorker, but Hoult plays Salinger as a typically frustrated young man, trying to make a creative breakthrough and angry at how closed-off New York’s literary establishment seems. The film conveys his struggles in the most shallow ways possible. Writer’s block sees Salinger bitterly tossing his pencil across the room, while his announcement that he’s pursuing a career in writing is greeted with warnings from his father Sol (Victor Garber) that he’ll never amount to anything. When Salinger does make it, the film barely shifts in tone.
Where did Holden Caulfield come from? According to Strong, he was the personification of Salinger’s fight against literary heterodoxy, with the book’s grim outlook forged in the fires of World War II. The film lacks the budget to stage much of Salinger’s service in Europe, instead subjecting us to rote flashbacks of battlefield chaos and a scene where he rails at Burnett about the friends he lost overseas. The genesis of The Catcher in the Rye appears to be little more than Burnett encouraging Salinger to turn his Caulfield short story into a novel; once that decision is made, the rest is a dramatically inert inevitability.
Of course, Salinger encounters resistance from the stuffy publishing world—editor’s notes, suggestions of plot changes, horror at the novel’s frank language and then-unusual portrait of teenage disaffection. But the author stands his ground, telling his agent (Sarah Paulson, one of the movie’s many wasted talents), “I won’t do it, I won’t change a word! Holden would not approve!” Holden would certainly not approve of this film, one that crams an author’s mysterious and fascinating legacy into the most basic of biopic formulas. I can’t imagine many viewers will, either.


When the comedian Tiffany Haddish was 9, her stepfather tampered with the brakes on her mother’s car, hoping to kill his partner and her four children. Rather than going out with her mom that day, Haddish asked to stay home and look after her younger siblings—sparing her from the horrific accident that left her mother mentally impaired. As the oldest child, Haddish did what she could to help for three years, from tying her mother’s shoes to paying bills, but eventually Haddish and her siblings were placed in foster care.
Haddish used the trauma and tragedy of her upbringing to ignite what is now a blazing comedy career. As a child, the Girls Trip star was teased for being a foster kid, but Haddish has also talked about maintaining a strong sense of self worth in her recent Showtime standup special, She Ready!: From the Hood to Hollywood. “The state of California paid so much money to make sure I don’t die ‘cause they knew I was gonna be special,” Haddish tells her audience. “They knew it. They was like, ‘This one right here, she gonna be a unicorn.’ And they was right. I’m the last black unicorn, bitch!”
Haddish’s ascent in recent years—debuting on NBC’s The Carmichael Show in 2015 and appearing in the 2016 action comedy Keanu and the summer hit Girls Trip—is a testament to her talent and resilience. But her story also offers insight into what it takes for a black woman in comedy to become successful today. Haddish’s rise points to where systemic roadblocks still lie for performers of color, particularly women, when they first enter the business—and how some barriers to entry may be falling as comedy enters a new golden age, with fewer gatekeepers and more platforms for artists to reach their fans.
Haddish defies the odds not only in her climb from poverty to nascent stardom, but also in her standing as a newly minted “black unicorn” in a genre dominated by white men. A few years ago, in an attempt to explain Saturday Night Live’s failure to cast more black women over the last four decades, the cast member Kenan Thompson lamented, “In auditions, they just never find ones that are ready.” As writers at The Atlantic and other outlets noted at the time, the absence of black women at SNL wasn’t so much about performers’ readiness, but about the show’s readiness. Though SNL has worked to fix this longstanding disparity in recent years, notably by hiring Leslie Jones and Sasheer Zamata (who left after last season), its cast makeup is symptomatic of problems deeply rooted in comedy and the entertainment industry at large.
A recent University of Southern California study of 21,000 characters and production staff on more than 400 films and TV shows found that all women, including women of color, are dramatically underrepresented in writers’ rooms and director’s chairs. Only one-third of speaking characters in the report were women or girls, and just 28.3 percent were people of color. The industry hires shockingly few black directors, which has clear consequences on-screen: In movies made by black directors, roughly 53 percent of speaking characters are also black. For all other films, that number drops to 10 percent.
Movie studios commonly defend patterns of racial inequality by insisting that famous headliners are the key to success and that movies with white leads fare much better overseas than movies featuring actors of color. Defenders of this line of thinking can point to statistics: In the top 100 movies of 2014, 73 percent of speaking or named characters were white. But these outcomes are more the result of a self-fulfilling prophecy. Audiences have repeatedly shown they will support films with lesser-known leads and performers of color. One of the year’s biggest hits so far, the low-budget horror film Get Out, was made by a black director, Jordan Peele, and starred a relatively unknown black actor, Daniel Kaluuya.
Even though Girls Trip has a black director and writers, Haddish faced questions about her low profile. Her agent initially told her that studio executives were looking for someone with a bigger name to play her character, Dina. Haddish told her agent to tell them, “I’ve had a name since 1979. Okay? I was born with a name.” In the end, her rare comedic gifts won out, and reviews of Girls Trip regularly singled Haddish out for praise. “Haddish just about runs away with the movie. Her portrayal of the fast-talking, histrionic loose cannon steals nearly every scene,” wrote The Washington Post’s Stephanie Merry. Vulture’s Emily Yoshida called Haddish “the clear and undeniable breakout star of the film,” adding, “You cannot take your eyes off Haddish when she’s onscreen.”
As Girls Trip showcased (but as her earlier fans already knew), Haddish is a brash, uninhibited, and highly skilled physical performer. She uses facial tics and expressions to create pauses in her stories and set up punch lines. She describes and demonstrates sexual maneuvers and poses in exaggerated and shameless fashion; her demonstration of “grapefruiting” a penis in Girls Trip is slapstick gold. And Haddish plays an impressive range of characters, including her grandmother and a version of herself in the midst of what she calls a “psychotic break” in She Ready!, and Hi-C, her gangster role in Keanu.
Haddish’s speech patterns during performances place her within the rich tradition of black vernacular comedy, but she appeals to a wide cross section of fans. As I discovered while researching my new book Behind the Laughs: Community and Inequality in Comedy, being funny isn’t enough to make it in comedy, especially for people of color. The Insecure cast member Amanda Seales told The Los Angeles Times that black women in particular often feel pressure to “figure out how to get into the mainstream, be the ‘it girl,’ and get the whites to like you.” As Seales suggests, comedians of color often have to train themselves to “cross over” in order to appeal to white audiences, in a way that white comics don’t have to. While Haddish’s relatively light skin and slim body type help distance her from racist stereotypes of sexually aggressive black womanhood, she also refuses to tone down her act. She complements her physical abilities with a sharp focus on black women’s pleasure, both on stage and in Girls Trip.
Haddish, of course, follows other unapologetically black women in comedy, like Mo’Nique, Sommore, and Sheryl Underwood, whose styles and sensibilities clearly influenced Haddish’s act. No matter how many myths and glass ceilings Haddish and her contemporaries shatter, the lineage of black women in comedy will continue to be shaped by the top-down and bottom-up forces of inequality in the industry. With every dollar Girls Trip earns, Hollywood has even fewer excuses for overlooking black women as screenwriters, directors, and on-screen talent. It’s a problem with a seemingly clear solution for those atop the entertainment industry: Stop ignoring black women and invest in their work. Unfortunately, the many problems that originate at comedy clubs and theaters at the lower levels of the business don’t have as obvious a fix.
* * *
One issue that shapes Hollywood’s talent pipeline is the shortage of black-owned and -operated comedy clubs. For example, Chicago, one of comedy’s capital cities and home to one of the largest African American populations in the United States, had just one such venue in 2016: Jokes and Notes. Now, it has none, as the long-time comedy entrepreneur Mary Ella Lindsey closed the establishment. She explained to The Chicago Sun-Times,
With a comedy club, you need foot traffic. If you look at the North Side, there are three or four comedy clubs, but you have restaurants, and bars, and foot traffic ... I’ve been at such a disadvantage over the last five years because there are no restaurants, and the biggest thing I’ve always heard about why people aren’t coming is ‘crime.’ … I’ve never had an incident.
Lindsey opened Jokes and Notes roughly 10 years ago in Bronzeville, a South Side neighborhood that appeared to be gentrifying. But the area has not significantly improved in the eyes of entrepreneurs who might have opened restaurants and shops near Lindsey’s club, and Lindsey couldn’t stay in business.
So why don’t aspiring black performers go elsewhere? Why don’t they just head to the North Side of Chicago, which boasts several standup clubs along with two of the most influential comedy theaters and training centers in the country, The Second City and iO Theater? Well, they do. In fact, black performers, like Peele and Keegan-Michael Key, have been performing at these venues for some time. The Second City boasts new fellowship and outreach programming, like the NBC Universal-sponsored Bob Curry Fellowship, designed to attract performers from underrepresented groups.
Haddish herself got her start at a Laugh Factory comedy-camp program tailored to young performers from underprivileged backgrounds. She was mentored by stars like Richard Pryor and Dane Cook, and she has said the camp boosted her confidence and set her on the path to stardom. As Haddish explained in an interview with People, “Going to that comedy camp and having all those men tell me, ‘You’re beautiful. You’re smart. You’re talented.’ Like, for somebody to tell me that, even if they didn’t believe it or mean it, it was enough. It was enough to light a fire.”
But even when one barrier to entry is removed, performers of color and economically disadvantaged comics still face serious obstacles to professional development. Whether in standup or sketch, comedians who have money to fall back on have a much better chance of lasting in the business than those who come from backgrounds like Haddish’s. The comedy camp didn’t rescue Haddish from poverty; she lived in her car during the early years of her career.
Even beyond the cost factor, the experiences of people of color, women, and women of color at these theaters differ dramatically from those of their white, male counterparts. They learn in predominantly white classes with predominantly white instructors and perform for predominantly white audiences. Scenes in sketch and improv comedy can also sometimes veer toward racial stereotyping that puts comedians of color in a difficult bind.
The Second City veteran, improv instructor, and cultural critic Ali Barthwell recounted an example of this treatment for my book. She was at an improv audition where she played an adventurer exploring a deep hole in the ground. One of the other improv players saw the hole and said to Barthwell, “I don’t want to go down there. It’s scary and black. No offense.” Passive-aggressive racism like this is doubly poisonous for comedians from underrepresented groups because they’re expected to shrug off their discomfort, sometimes in order to prove their true commitment to comedy. If black women react with justified frustration, they become more vulnerable to the “angry black woman” stereotype. In general, comedians of color aren’t expected to push back when they feel certain jokes cross the line. The former director of digital content at The Onion and best-selling author Baratunde Thurston told me:
People just think you’re superhuman and they can just say anything to you and you have to take it as a joke. And if you’re doing comedy and race, people want to like test you, and be like, “Wussup my niggaaaah!” I’m a human being still. I have feelings, I have standards, and I have a sense of self respect.
Conventional thinking holds that comedians from marginalized groups will have more opportunities if gatekeepers and audiences simply take a colorblind approach to producing and consuming comedy. Comedians themselves often buy into this notion and strive for universalism and “funny is funny” meritocracy; Jerry Seinfeld has made such arguments repeatedly over the past few years. But as Barthwell and Thurston describe, comedy isn’t colorblind, and insisting on neutrality often means demanding that black comics adapt to white norms—and preserve the status quo. Neutrality keeps inequality in place, often yielding stale and unimaginative comedy that alienates and excludes performers of color. But the fact that the critically acclaimed Girls Trip is the most successful live-action comedy of the year, with $126 million and counting at the box office, demonstrates that good art, good business, and diversity are indeed compatible.
Haddish’s career took a rather traditional route, from doing standup at major clubs, to landing a sitcom role on a major network, to starring in a movie from a major studio. Ultimately, however, Haddish’s future and the future of black women in comedy may lie elsewhere. Digital production and distribution, as well as social media, have wrested some power from television and film studios and placed it in the hands of artists. Issa Rae started Awkward Black Girl as a YouTube web series before getting a deal with HBO to make her show Insecure. Phoebe Robinson and Jessica Williams are following in Rae’s footsteps, and the co-hosts of the WNYC 2 Dope Queens podcast will take their act to HBO as well. As Robinson explained, becoming a content producer, rather than just a performer, means, “You can be more in charge of your destiny, rather than, ‘I hope someone will cast me as something.’” This approach allows artists to cultivate a following and demonstrate their worth without first needing a major investment from a film company.
Though these new channels exist, movie and television studios still wield tremendous power. So when financial investment from studios does come—as it has for Haddish, who just inked a deal to star alongside Kevin Hart in the 2018 film Night School—stars can maximize their influence by forming their own production companies. Hart, whose comedy is a far cry from the social commentary of Pryor, has already taken steps to ensure black creators have more access to the writers’ room and director’s chair (the Girls Trip director Malcolm D. Lee will helm Night School). Historically, the success of men like Hart, Pryor, Bill Cosby, Eddie Murphy, Dave Chappelle, and Chris Rock has not opened as many doors for black women in comedy. But for all the challenges that remain, Haddish and her peers now have new outlets and platforms for ensuring their work reaches fans—and that there will be many more black unicorns to come.


Football devotees call it “the ultimate team sport,” and in a sense they are right. No play is made alone. The linebacker who bursts through to level the running back can thank his linemen for occupying blockers; the receiver who gets behind the defense for a 40-yard touchdown can thank the distracting routes of his cohorts who end up empty-handed. Still, nobody approaches the importance of the quarterback, especially in today’s NFL. Recent rule changes designed to protect players have had the side effect of liberating offenses, making passers unquestionably the most valuable commodities in the sport. A great one can elevate a bad team to relevance, or a good team to Super Bowl contention. A lousy one can sink even the most well-stocked squad’s chances.
The 2017 NFL season, which kicks off Thursday night, will have its share of plays that remind you of football’s variable thrills, but most games—and the eventual championship—will likely come down to the men under center. Here, then, are four quarterbacks worth paying special attention to, as they set the terms of the sport’s present and future.
Deshaun Watson, the Rookie
In last year’s college football championship, the Clemson quarterback Deshaun Watson progressed from star to legend. He broke the record for passing yards in a title game, with 420, and with one second left threw the game-winning touchdown, leading his Tigers past the then-undefeated Alabama Crimson Tide. “I couldn’t hear the crowd,” he said then of his heroics. “I just felt at peace.”
Watson was drafted by the Houston Texans with the 12th pick in April’s draft, and though he’ll be relegated to backup duties in Week 1, the hope in Houston is that he’ll take the starting job soon and, eventually, become the player to push a promising team over the hump. Outfitted with a stellar defense and talented receiving corps, the Texans made the playoffs in each of the past two seasons, but each appearance ended in a blowout loss due, in large part, to subpar quarterback play. Watson—strong-armed, nimble-footed, and with a well-earned reputation for leadership and poise under pressure—presents a possible solution.
He could help solve a leaguewide problem, as well. The NFL needs an infusion of youth at its premium position; last season, four of the five leaders in passing yards were older than 30. A generation of star quarterbacks, including Peyton Manning and Tony Romo, has started phasing into retirement. With a skillful roster around him and a strong pedigree behind him, Watson is as good a bet as any rookie to inherit the role; Drew Brees, one of those soon-to-exit elders, recently called him “as talented as they come.”
Cam Newton, the Comeback Hopeful
For pure joy, no season in recent memory tops Cam Newton’s 2015 campaign. That year, he threw for 35 touchdowns and ran for 10 more, won the Most Valuable Player award, and led the Carolina Panthers to a 15-1 record and the Super Bowl. He played like an action hero, firing passes into impossibly tight windows and battering through defenders. Along the way, he enlivened the normally buttoned-up culture of the NFL, offering wide smiles where other players might have opted for blankfaced stares, celebrating his touchdowns by racing to the seats and handing the football to a kid in a Panthers jersey. Newton’s excitement bothered some of the more dour segments of sports media, but that didn’t much matter as his team rolled over all comers.
Carolina lost that year’s Super Bowl, though, while Newton followed a subpar performance with a surly press conference, and the year since has been as difficult as the previous one was easygoing. The 2016 Panthers went 6-10, and their quarterback saw his productivity slip in every statistical category. Defenders made a habit of delivering punishing hits to Newton, which were curiously not flagged as excessive, and tired arguments often trotted out regarding black quarterbacks resurfaced. “Running is an easy, lazier way to play quarterback,” the Fox Sports host Colin Cowherd said recently, forgetting—or, more likely, ignoring—Newton’s ability to disassemble defenses with his arm or his legs.
The 2017 Panthers have an offense energized by the addition of the rookie running back Christian McCaffrey, and they hope to prove that last season was an aberration, not the start of a downward trend. A bounceback year for Newton, meanwhile, would be welcome beyond the Carolinas. At his best, he is living, laughing, rumbling proof that the game’s most demanding job need not be its least fun one.
Aaron Rodgers, the Virtuoso
Aaron Rodgers makes throws that seem not only unprecedented but, until replays show them again and again, physically impossible. Take, for example, the pass that helped his Green Bay Packers beat the Dallas Cowboys in the divisional round of last year’s playoffs. With 12 seconds left in a tie game, facing third and 20, Rodgers took the snap, spun away from the Dallas rush, and—on the run—threw a 35-yard dart diagonally into the arms of Jared Cook, who corralled it on the last sliver of grass before the sideline. The completion set up the winning field goal, and after the game, Rodgers was as giddy as any spectator. “I love that part,” he said. “I love the challenge—I love the opportunity to go out there and make plays.”
The problem, for Green Bay, is to use Rodgers’s rare ability to make football magic without becoming reliant on it. Detractors might argue that the Packers have overburdened their quarterback in the years since they last reached the Super Bowl, in their 2010 championship season. Rodgers has kept to his remarkable standards since then, but he has needed to, rescuing teams with weak defenses and slapdash running attacks. He has thrown an unheard-of three Hail Mary touchdowns over the past two seasons, a testament both to his ability and to his team’s sometimes dire straits.
There’s little question that the 33-year-old Rodgers will be remembered as one of the best of his era when he leaves the game. He is an offense unto himself, an exploder of norms and inventor of angles. What remains to be seen is whether he will spend the rest of his career keeping flawed teams afloat or leading great ones to championships. In some ways, despite his deserved accolades, Rodgers represents the downside of modern quarterbacking’s outsized importance; some passers can be so good that the deficiencies around them go overlooked until it’s too late.
Tom Brady, the Champion
In February’s Super Bowl, Tom Brady turned in the defining performance of what may be the greatest quarterback career of all time, leading the New England Patriots back from a 28-3 deficit to an overtime win. The comeback had all of its perpetrator’s trademarks: perfect accuracy, uncanny timing, unflappable cool, and a dash of what might look like luck, had it happened to anyone else. It was the fifth championship for Brady and the head coach Bill Belichick, the defining duo of 21st-century football.
Maybe the only thing more unlikely than the win itself is the fact that it wasn’t a swan song. At age 40—ancient in the lifespan of a pro football player—Brady seems better than ever; a recent ESPN.com ranking of the NFL’s best 100 players put him at the top of the list. He owes his relative agelessness to an approach that privileges the mental over the physical. Brady hardly moves behind his offensive line, bouncing on his toes and surveying the defense, and he doesn’t really throw deep, by contemporary standards. Rather, he goes about his work like the world’s most well-paid locksmith, glancing in one direction and sending the football in another, manipulating the opposition’s strategic cogs.
There is nothing new to say about Brady: no sudden deficiencies to report, no hurdles to overcome. He’s at the apex of his profession, and he figures to remain there for some time. For its NFL preview issue, Sports Illustrated ran a cover with star players from other teams, miniaturized, scampering over a gigantic Brady, trying to find purchase. The metaphor landed. He is not only his team’s central figure but the sport’s, the best at the most crucial task. In 2017—and, likely, beyond—the rest of the league can only try to catch up.


What does September mean in this moment of Hasn’t-Even-Peaked-Yet-Peak-TV? Basically, a lot of television. Although the summer wasn’t exactly a respite, given the abundance of new Netflix series and the rejiggered schedule for a somewhat popular show about dragons, the back-to-school season is bringing an embarrassment of new series, rebooted classics, and spinoffs. Below is a brief, non-comprehensive guide to the most intriguing new shows, with a bonus section on returning series that are worth the time.
New shows, reboots, and revivals:
American Horror Story: Cult (September 5, FX)
The seventh season of Ryan Murphy’s anthology series tackles the most terrifying monster of recent times: the news. Set in the immediate aftermath of the 2016 U.S. presidential election, the 11-episode season uses the chaos of Donald Trump’s political ascendancy to examine cult figures, social polarization, and the looming anxiety amped up by social media. Scary clowns abound, both in costume and in power.
The Deuce (September 10, HBO)
The first collaboration between David Simon and George Pelecanos since Treme, The Deuce is set in 1970s New York City, when Times Square had more peep shows and porn theaters than Olive Gardens and Elmo impersonators. In the eight-episode series, James Franco plays twin brothers Vincent and Frankie Martino, a bartender and a gambler who get swept up in a mob plan to profit from the burgeoning sex industry. Maggie Gyllenhaal is Candy, a sex worker with bigger ambitions. Fans of The Wire will appreciate familiar faces: Method Man, Gbenga Akinnagbe, Chris Bauer, Anwan Glover, Lawrence Gilliard, Jr.
Riviera (September 14, Sundance Now)
The Oscar-winning writer and director Neil Jordan (The Crying Game) helms this 10-part import from Britain’s Sky Atlantic, set on the Cote d’Azur. Julia Stiles stars as a curator whose billionaire husband, Constantine (Anthony LaPaglia), is killed in an accident aboard his yacht, spurring her to investigate his death. Iwan Rheon (better known as Ramsay Bolton) plays Constantine’s eldest son, who rejects the family fortune and the trouble it seems to entail.
The Vietnam War (September 17, PBS)
Ken Burns and Lynn Novick’s newest project is their most ambitious yet: a 10-part, 18-hour history of the Vietnam War that dwarfs even Burns’s 680-minute reckoning with the Civil War, the 1990 series that cemented his reputation as America’s greatest historical documentarian. Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross of Nine Inch Nails curate the soundtrack and provide an original score.
The State (September 18, National Geographic)
This four-part miniseries from the British writer and director Peter Kosminsky (Wolf Hall) aired in the U.K. last month on Channel 4, where it was largely praised for its dramatization of the lives of Britons who leave their homes to join ISIS. Kosminsky and his researchers spent months sifting through public records and conducting interviews to more accurately portray life inside the terrorist organization, and the result is a shocking cautionary tale.
Star Trek: Discovery (September 24, CBS)
Twelve years after the last Star Trek series went off the air, this long-awaited prequel to the original 1960s Star Trek is expensive (reportedly costing around $8 million per episode), nine months late (it was supposed to debut in January), and exclusive to viewers willing to pay $5.99 a month for CBS’s streaming platform. Sonequa Martin-Green (The Walking Dead) is First Officer Michael Burnham, with Michelle Yeoh (Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon) as Philippa Georgiou, the captain of the Starship Shenzhou.
The Opposition With Jordan Klepper (September 25, Comedy Central)
The former Daily Show correspondent gets his own perch in Comedy Central’s 11:30 p.m. slot, previously occupied by Stephen Colbert and Larry Wilmore. The Opposition might sound like a new TV HQ for #theresistance, but it’s billed as satirizing “alternative-media” voices, with Klepper’s character channeling Alex Jones, Louise Mensch, and shouty fabulists on both the left and the right.
The Good Doctor (September 25, ABC)
Freddie Highmore (Bates Motel) stars in this new Monday-night medical drama about a brilliant pediatric surgeon who has autism and who relocates to a respected hospital in San Jose, where his new colleagues wrestle with the opportunities and challenges provided by his abilities. The series is co-created by David Shore, the showrunner behind House, and is based on a hit Korean drama of the same name.
Young Sheldon (September 25, CBS)
How did Sheldon Cooper come to be? It’s possibly not a question too many Big Bang Theory fans have asked, but the Chuck Lorre comedy’s astronomical ratings make the greenlighting of this prequel an obvious yes. Iain Armitage (Big Little Lies) plays the title character, a 9-year-old growing up in East Texas in 1989 who enters high school as an extremely precocious youngster. In a first for Lorre, the show departs from the multi-cam, laugh-track format to go for more of a nostalgic, Wonder Years vibe.
Law & Order True Crime: The Menendez Murders (September 26, NBC)
The true-crime boom of late has inspired none other than Dick Wolf, whose newest NBC spinoff dramatizes the 1996 trial in which two young men from Beverly Hills were convicted of murdering their wealthy parents. Edie Falco plays Leslie Abramson, the brothers’ defense attorney, with Josh Charles as their psychiatrist and Anthony Edwards as the presiding judge.
Will & Grace (September 28, NBC)
“Will and Grace are still living together, Jack’s across the hall, Karen’s still rich,” is how Eric McCormack summarized this 16-episode revival of the hit NBC comedy, which garnered 16 Emmy Awards during its previous eight seasons on the air. In other words, more of the same, only with updated topical references (Grindr, Brangelina’s divorce, Fox News) and some creative working around that definitive series finale.
Big Mouth (September 29, Netflix)
Nick Kroll and John Mulaney (Oh, Hello) voice two teenagers hitting puberty in this surreal new Netflix animated show, which sees its characters battle hormone monsters and newfound sexual urges. The show is created by Kroll and Andrew Goldberg, both friends since childhood, and features the voices of Maya Rudolph, Jenny Slate, Jessi Klein, Jordan Peele, and Jason Mantzoukas, among others.
Ghosted (October 1, Fox)
A former LAPD officer (Craig Robinson) and a gentle bookstore employee who claims his wife was abducted by aliens (Adam Scott) are paired up to investigate the paranormal in this odd-couple comedy—kind of The X-Files meets Police Squad! Adeel Akhtar (Four Lions, The Night Manager) plays their no-nonsense wrangler.
Curb Your Enthusiasm (October 1, HBO)
“In the immortal words of Julius Caesar, ‘I left, I did nothing, I returned,’” is how Larry David described the 10-episode revival of his HBO comedy, which arrives six years after the eighth season moved a newly single Larry to New York. Bryan Cranston, Elizabeth Banks, Nasim Pedrad, Lauren Graham, and Judge Judy are among the guest stars scheduled to make an appearance.
Ten Days in the Valley (October 1, ABC)
Kyra Sedgwick stars in this new ABC drama created by Tassie Cameron, about a workaholic TV producer, Jane Sadler, whose daughter disappears. The show, originally intended as a vehicle for Demi Moore, covers one day in each of its 10 episodes, as investigators probe Jane’s personal life to try and uncover who’s targeting her family.
The Gifted (October 2, Fox)
Set within the X-Men universe, this 10-episode drama from Matt Nix (Burn Notice) focuses on two separated parents (True Blood’s Stephen Moyer and Person of Interest’s Amy Acker) who discover that their teenage children are mutants. While the series won’t cross over with Legion, the FX drama drawn from the same X-Men film series, or with any of the movies, its first two episodes are directed by Bryan Singer and Len Wiseman.
The Mayor (October 3, ABC)
Created by the writer Jeremy Bronson, and executive-produced by Daveed Diggs, this new ABC sitcom—inspired, in part, by Chance the Rapper—focuses on a young musician who runs for mayor of his hometown in a bid to get more attention for his mixtape, but who accidentally wins. Brandon Micheal Hall (Search Party) is Courtney Rose, the unlikely new addition in City Hall.
Dynasty (October 11, The CW)
The original Dynasty’s “slavering fetishization of wealth, power, and conspicuous consumption,” was, Mark Harris posited at Vulture, the defining cultural emblem of Reagan’s America. Which makes this reboot, by The O.C. and Gossip Girl’s Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage, timely, to say the least. Grant Show plays the billionaire Blake Carrington, whose new wife, Cristal (Nathalie Kelley), prompts a face-off with his daughter, Fallon (Elizabeth Gillies).
I Love You, America (October 12, Hulu)
Sarah Silverman’s new weekly topical show for Hulu is being billed as an honest attempt for the outspoken comedian to engage with “real” Americans whose opinions and beliefs are at odds with her own. The series’s co-executive producers include Will Ferrell and Adam McKay (Anchorman, The Big Short).
Mindhunter (October 13, Netflix)
David Fincher’s first television project since House of Cards—following a multi-series deal with HBO that was scuttled after budget disputes—is roughly based on a 1995 book about the FBI’s elite serial-crime unit. Set in 1979, it stars Jonathan Groff and Holt McCallany as two agents who investigate serial killers by interviewing the ones who’ve been caught. If it sounds like The Silence of the Lambs, that’s because it’s working with identical source material.
White Famous (October 15, Showtime)
The Saturday Night Live alum Jay Pharoah stars in this Jamie Foxx-produced comedy, based loosely on the Oscar-winning actor’s breakout days as an entertainer and the mixed blessing of becoming “white famous.” The 10-episode series’s showrunner is Tom Kapinos, of Californication and Lucifer.
The Last O.G. (October 24, TBS)
Tracy Morgan. Jordan Peele. Tiffany Haddish. Those are three extremely good reasons to check out TBS’s new comedy, created by Peele, and starring Morgan as  Tray, an ex-con released from a 15-year prison sentence who returns to a remarkably different world. Haddish plays his ex-girlfriend, who’s been raising Tray’s twin sons with her white boyfriend (Ryan Gaul).
Alias Grace (November 3, Netflix)
Sarah Polley (Away From Her, Stories We Tell) adapted the second TV series this year to come from a Margaret Atwood novel, after Hulu’s acclaimed production of The Handmaid’s Tale. Sarah Gadon plays Grace Marks, a servant convicted of murder in 1843, whose culpability is called into question by a doctor investigating the crime.
SMILF (November 5, Showtime)
Frankie Shaw (Mr. Robot) adapts her award-winning short film of the same name—loosely based on her own experiences as a single mother struggling to build a career—into a comedy series for Showtime. Set in South Boston, the 10-episode show features Rosie O’Donnell as the mother of Shaw’s character, with Connie Britton as her boss.
The Girlfriend Experience (November 5, Starz)
The first season of Starz’s The Girlfriend Experience, loosely based on the Steven Soderbergh movie of the same name, featured Riley Keough as an enigmatic law student and sex worker. The second, again executive-produced by Soderbergh and written by Lodge Kerrigan and Amy Seimetz, reboots the premise with two new stories set in D.C. and New Mexico, starring Anna Friel, Carmen Ejogo, and Louisa Krause.
Future Man (November 14, Hulu)
Josh Hutcherson (The Hunger Games, The Kids Are All Right) stars in this Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg-produced comedy about a slacker janitor who’s unexpectedly tasked with time travel to save humanity from extinction. Ed Begley Jr. and Haley Joel Osment co-star, along with Glenne Headly, whose storylines were rewritten after the actress died in June.
Runaways (November 21, Hulu)
The third Marvel TV series to debut this fall (ABC’s lackluster Inhumans and Fox’s The Gifted are the others) is, like Dynasty, created by Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage. Based on the comic series of the same name, the 10-episode Hulu show is about a group of teens who unite to fight their parents when they discover the adults are part of a nefarious criminal organization called the Pride.
Godless (November 22, Netflix)
Continuing to spend money like it’s not even a thing, Netflix debuts this six-episode Western co-created by Steven Soderbergh and Scott Frank (Get Shorty). Jeff Daniels plays Frank Griffin, a gunslinger and the leader of a group of outlaws bent on revenge against a traitor. Also in the cast: Michelle Dockery, Sam Waterston, Thomas Brodie-Sangster, Jack O’Connell, and Merritt Wever.
She’s Gotta Have It (November 23, Netflix)
Spike Lee adapts his 1986 classic of the same name into this 10-episode dramedy, starring DeWanda Wise as Nola Darling, a charismatic Brooklynite torn between three different men. The producers include Lynn Nottage, who’s twice won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama.
Returning shows:
Amid such a wealth of new shows to choose from, there are a number of returning series worth catching up on, particularly the ones that don’t require a heavy time commitment. BoJack Horseman returns to Netflix for a fourth season on September 8, and the weird satirical comedy about a disgruntled animal movie star (voiced by Will Arnett) is both ingenious and tragic. Top of the Lake: China Girl (September 10, Sundance) is the long-awaited second season to the 2013 Jane Campion miniseries starring Elisabeth Moss as a detective in New Zealand investigating the case of a missing pregnant 12-year-old. Broad City, which returns to Comedy Central for a fourth season on September 13, promises to address the election this season, albeit with President Trump’s name bleeped out.
There were a handful of truly excellent comedies that crept under the radar last year, and Pamela Adlon’s FX series Better Things, starring the actress and director as a single mom in Hollywood, was one of them. But there’s time to stream all 10 half-hour episodes before Season 2 returns on September 14. More widely praised (and rightfully so) was NBC’s The Good Place, which returns September 20, and whose epic final-episode twist shall not be spoiled. Great News (September 28, NBC), which improved hugely a few episodes into its first season, gets 13 more episodes, with executive producer Tina Fey starring in seven of them as a new, Sheryl Sandberg-like boss at the TV station.
Another hit for NBC was This Is Us, which returns September 26, and which my colleague Megan Garber memorably christened “must-weep TV.” USA’s engaging but tentacular hacker drama, Mr. Robot, is back for a third season on October 11. But possibly the biggest show this fall is the second season of Stranger Things, the out-of-the-blue Netflix phenomenon, which re-immerses viewers in the Upside Down on October 27.


This story contains spoilers through Episode 1 of American Horror Story: Cult.
Your fears are all founded, horror stories always say. The monster really is under the bed. That closet does contain a killer. The glint in your child’s eye is a demon.
Or, as in the case of American Horror Story: Cult—take whatever nightmares, whatever worst-case scenarios, that the election of Donald Trump planted in your mind. They’re all coming true.
American Horror Story's Mind-Bending Experiment
The seventh season of Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk’s FX anthology series may mark the first mass-market filmed fiction to tackle the Trump era head-on. Tuesday night’s premiere episode opened on the evening of November 8, 2016, spiraling into a riff on the way fear, perception, and plain cruelty shape public life in this moment. As is often the case with Horror Story, the show has hit on an intriguing high concept, and its first few episodes are compulsively watchable. As is also often the case, incoherence and overreach threaten to topple a premise already teetering on the edge of exploitation.
Sarah Paulson heartily plays the brittle Ally Mayfair-Richards, a mascot for liberal panic. The first horror scene of the show takes place at the diversely attended election-night viewing party held in her and her wife’s tasteful, Crate and Barrel-ized home. As it dawns on Ally that neither The Huffington Post nor Rachel Maddow nor Nate Silver can reverse what’s happened, the music rumbles ominously and Paulson shrieks as if her fingernails are being removed with pliers. Her wife, Ivy (Alison Pill), tries to console her with breathing exercises. Their young son, Oz (Cooper Dodson), clutches his stuffed animal in the other room and listens to her screams. Early on, the show seems to ask, What is the adult world’s present hysteria doing to the kids?
On the other side of the national divide is Kai (Evan Peters), a basement-dwelling, internet-dwelling rageball who humps the screen when Fox News announces Trump’s win. No, these characterizations aren’t subtle, and the show could afford to cut its share of on-the-nose punchlines by half. But this is American Horror Story, and pushing clichés past the breaking point is part of the point. You’d be right to roll your eyes at the sight of this stringy-haired misanthrope munching on cheese puffs. Yet, tired becomes inspired when Kai puts those puffs in a blender and smears the resulting orange slurry on his face so as to mock his liberal sister Winter (Billie Lourd) with hideous Trump drag.
Winter, it turns out, is a Vassar student who took a year off to try and help elect the country’s first woman president. At first it seems like the show is overloading itself with caricatures—like when she asks a friend why CNN didn’t include a trigger warning with its election results. But swiftly it becomes clear that Winter isn’t that into safe spaces: She’s actually conspiring with her ideologically opposed brother. Kai is a self-styled revolutionary with a touch of the Joker, fomenting fear to cause change. Winter’s interest in that plan? Not immediately clear. But when she shows up to babysit Oz, she gets to quick work corrupting the kid by exposing him to the darkest parts of the internet.
Much of the first episode follows Paulson’s Ally in a post-election psychological spiral. Debilitating phobias of clowns, blood, and little clusters of holes have flared back up thanks to Trump, she tells her therapist, Dr. Rudy Vincent (Cheyenne Jackson). In one of those supremely questionable creative choices that only Ryan Murphy would make, an early sequence essentially recreates a frightening scene from 2014’s American Horror Story: Freak Show, even going so far as to re-feature John Carroll Lynch’s melty-faced Twisty the Clown. It eventually becomes clear that the sequence is just a visualization of what Oz’s reading in a comic book—but his young imagination makes the horrors leap off the page. So too does Ally’s anxiety. One glimpse at the comic-book cover and she’s in full-blown freakout.
Ally’s sightings of gruesome clowns around town—a reference to the rash of creepy carnivalesque encounters around North America last year—provides one of the big political metaphors of the show. The horror itself isn’t novel: Everyone has squirmed through psychological thrillers in which the main character might be delusional, and few slasher narratives are more familiar than that of a threatened heroine not being taken seriously by those around her. But by the premiere’s end, it seems obvious that at least some of these clowns are real, and that the real intrigue is in the allegory. Is Ally’s tendency toward mistrust protecting her from a greater threat? Or is it just making her a target?
As for one of the greatest liberal fears about Trump’s election, Cult indulges in it fully: Yes, the results of November 8 did empower terrible people to do terrible things, the show says. Kai commits a hate crime against a group of day laborers and then has his subsequent beatdown by the laborers filmed, presumably to gin up anti-immigrant sentiment when the tape is released. He also menaces the town mayor, and glimmers of Peters’s American Horror Story Season 1 character, a disaffected school shooter, shine through as he glowers, “There is nothing more dangerous than a humiliated man.” The horror story here is that Americans really are being gaslit, and that some of the people who cheer Trump are fueled only by resentment and do want to see the world burn.
But there is also, oddly, a comfort to the show as its pulls the viewer into its funhouse version of reality. It’s so outrageous, so parodic, that the nightmare it presents feels just like that, a nightmare—unreal, something from which the viewer will awake. Perhaps it discounts the seriousness of real-world hate crimes to have them rendered cartoonishly here. Perhaps it’s unfortunate that the first major pop-culture processing of the political era is entirely rooted in white, liberal anxiety. But perhaps, it’ll turn out, the show’s Cheeto-caked villains will make a useful point of comparison for our world’s recent sources of fear—the bogeymen, as well as the real threats.


No subgenre has seen a more massive boost in prestige in Hollywood than the comic-book film. It used to be surprising when critically acclaimed young directors like Bryan Singer would take on a project like X-Men, whereas now it’s practically a matter of course for fledgling artists to leap at such an opportunity, and for Oscar-feted stars to burnish their credentials with a superhero jaunt (think Benedict Cumberbatch in Doctor Strange or Cate Blanchett in the upcoming Thor: Ragnarok). But at last, we have an example of this trend running in the opposite direction, of a bulletproof comic-book brand that’s losing much of its luster: the Joker.
When Tim Burton made his first Batman film in 1989, he cast one of Hollywood’s biggest and most dependable stars in the role of Batman’s greatest enemy. Jack Nicholson, already a two-time Academy Award winner (he’d later collect a third trophy in the 1990s), was paid a king’s ransom for the role (his cut of the film’s profits ran to an estimated $50 million) and received top billing above the movie’s ostensible lead Michael Keaton. Since then, the Joker has remained the most prestigious comic-book movie role, winning Heath Ledger a posthumous Oscar for 2008’s The Dark Knight; Jared Leto was cast in the role in Suicide Squad not long after his Oscar win for Dallas Buyers Club.
Hollywood Has a Bad-Movie Problem
Now, it seems, Warner Bros. (who produced all of these Joker films) is desperate to rediscover the cachet that has vanished from the role. Over the last few weeks, widespread industry reports have suggested the studio is simultaneously pursing three Joker projects: a Suicide Squad sequel, a standalone film focusing on the villain’s relationship with his partner in crime Harley Quinn (Margot Robbie), and, mostly bizarrely, a Joker “origin film,” to be directed by Todd Phillips (The Hangover) and produced by Martin Scorsese. Leto would ostensibly star in the first two projects, but for the third, Warners reportedly has a bigger target in mind: Leonardo DiCaprio, who recently won his first Oscar.
DiCaprio is, of course, a longtime collaborator of Scorsese’s (they’ve made five films together), as well as an actor who has branched out into more villainous, challenging roles (as in Quentin Tarantino’s Django Unchained). But according to The Hollywood Reporter, the chances of landing DiCaprio “could be slim to none,” despite Scorsese’s involvement; the very idea of his casting was met with online mockery from many a film publication, along with reports of Leto furiously making his displeasure known to the studio. In 1989, the notion of a Batman movie was risky, but Burton still got Nicholson on board. What’s changed since then? Simply put, studios’ obsession with making franchise films and audiences’ growing backlash against that oversaturation.
The poor critical reception to Leto’s performance in Suicide Squad didn’t help, of course. But even though that film was lambasted, it made serious money, grossing $745 million worldwide, enough to encourage Warner Bros. to greenlight a sequel and the Joker/Harley Quinn spinoff (which will be written and directed by Glenn Ficarra and John Requa of Crazy, Stupid, Love). The studio has invested heavily in its DC Comics franchise and saw major critical and commercial success this year with Wonder Woman. It has Justice League coming in November and films like Aquaman, Flashpoint, Green Lantern Corps, a Wonder Woman sequel, a standalone Batman, and many more on deck, along with the aforementioned Joker movies.
Despite Wonder Woman’s success, the studio’s approach seems to be throwing films at the wall and seeing what sticks, as it’s doing with the Joker projects. The idea, according to The Hollywood Reporter, would be to set up a franchise within a franchise—the Leto films would be part of the main connected universe, but the Scorsese-produced “origin” film could be disconnected and given different branding, to distinguish it and perhaps mollify Leto. Still, “Warners executives are acutely aware of the risks of audience confusion,” the story helpfully notes.
The prospect of multiple Joker films coming out in the new few years is maddening from both a creative and a business perspective. But it’s exactly the kind of moneymaking gamble studios are willing to take as they try to eke out new revenue streams from the same pieces of intellectual property. This summer was officially Hollywood’s lowest-grossing in 10 years ($3.8 billion), with the worst ticket sales in 25 years ($428 million). That’s because big weekends in 2017 were devoted to sequels to films audiences clearly hated (such as the fifth Transformers and the fifth Pirates of the Caribbean); vain attempts to launch entire franchises within one movie (Universal’s The Mummy); and weak cash-ins on ’90s nostalgia (Baywatch, Ghost in the Shell, Power Rangers).
It would be hard for studios to throttle back at this point. Creaky franchises like Transformers, the “monsterverse” (centered on creatures like King Kong and Godzilla), and the “Dark Universe” (revolving around Universal monsters like Dracula and The Mummy) have expensive writers rooms devoted to their continued existence. Studios hire award-winning screenwriters to work with producers and churn out scripts for spinoffs and sequels. It’s why a film centered on the Transformer Bumblebee is in production and why there were several announced sequels to The Mummy in the works before the film even hit theaters.
Hence, the Warner Bros. plan to make three Joker movies simultaneously. The studio seemingly doesn’t care about diluting the brand, a process that’s been slowly happening for decades anyway. The gap between live-action film portrayals of the Joker has narrowed dramatically: It was once 23 years (between Cesar Romero’s take in the 1966 Batman: The Movie and Nicholson). Then, it was 19 years (between Nicholson and Ledger), then eight years (between Ledger and Leto). Now, it could be as little as three. The desperation, with every cast change, is becoming more evident; no wonder Leo isn’t interested.


After an uneven summer and a truly dreadful slate of releases in August, the film calendar finally gets more exciting in the next three months, as indie hits, arthouse triumphs, and Oscar-baiting biopics roll out to audiences. With far fewer sequels, remakes, and franchise efforts to worry about, the season has a lot of promising projects ahead—here are 33, in particular, to look forward to.
It (September 8)
What It Is: The first cinema adaptation of one of Stephen King’s best regarded tomes, It follows a group of pre-teens in the fictional town of Derry, Maine, as they are tormented by the manifestation of their worst fears.
If You Need Convincing: This project cycled through several directors and actors before finally settling on helmer Andy Muschietti (Mama) and casting Bill Skarsgard as the demonic clown Pennywise. That creative tumult often leads to a messy product, but the early buzz on It is positive, and the film’s advertising campaign has been genuinely frightening—you can’t beat a scary clown.
mother! (September 15)
What It Is: Darren Aronofsky’s first film since his 2014 epic Noah, starring Jennifer Lawrence and Javier Bardem as a married couple whose tranquil life in the countryside is upended by the arrival of a mysterious couple (Ed Harris and Michelle Pfeiffer).
If You Need Convincing: The plot of this movie remains shrouded in mystery, though it certainly has the vibe of a suspenseful horror film from its cryptic advertising. But it could represent a real creative bounce-back for Lawrence, who hasn’t starred in a critical hit since 2013’s American Hustle.
Kingsman: The Golden Circle (September 22)
What It Is: The sequel to the surprise 2014 hit Kingsman: The Secret Service, an aggressive, hyper-violent upending of the James Bond formula from the director Matthew Vaughn (Kick-Ass, X-Men: First Class).
If You Need Convincing: This time, the agents of Kingsman (including Taron Egerton, Colin Firth, and Mark Strong) journey to America, where they tangle with an all-star cast including Halle Berry, Channing Tatum, Jeff Bridges, and a villain played by Julianne Moore. The first Kingsman was widely polarizing but drew some raves for its gleeful mockery of British class stratification.
Mark Felt: The Man Who Brought Down the White House (September 29)
What It Is: A biopic about the FBI lifer Mark Felt (Liam Neeson), who became the anonymous source “Deep Throat” for reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein and aided the investigation into the Watergate scandal that toppled the Nixon presidency.
If You Need Convincing: Neeson, with grey hair and a slimmed-down frame, is a dead ringer for Felt; the film also features Diane Lane as his wife Audrey and Michael C. Hall (Dexter) as White House counsel John Dean. Writer/director Peter Landesman, a former New York Times journalist, last made the NFL expose Concussion.
Blade Runner 2049 (October 6)
What It Is: Thirty-five years later, a sequel to Ridley Scott’s sci-fi masterpiece, now starring Ryan Gosling (as a new “Blade Runner,” Officer K, hunting android “replicants”) and directed by Denis Villeneuve (coming off of an Oscar nomination for 2016’s great piece of sci-fi, Arrival).
If You Need Convincing: Harrison Ford is back as Rick Deckard but in a more limited role that seems reminiscent of his performance in Star Wars: The Force Awakens. The film’s larger plot, outside of Officer K and Deckard linking up to solve a mystery, is unknown, but the ensemble includes Jared Leto, Mackenzie Davis, and a returning Edward James Olmos as Gaff. Get your unicorn origami ready!
The Florida Project (October 6)
What It Is: The most expansive film yet from the director Sean Baker (whose last film, the surprise 2015 hit Tangerine, was filmed on an iPhone). Set in and around a low-rent motel in Orlando, Florida, the film follows Moonee (Brooklynn Prince), a mischievous 6-year-old, as she gets up to hijinks and bothers the motel manager Bobby (Willem Dafoe).
If You Need Convincing: Baker has graduated from the world of micro-budget filmmaking to the regular, small-budget indie world here. The Florida Project is joyous, stressful, and heartbreaking, and features a subtle, sensitive performance from Dafoe that deserves serious awards attention.
Marshall (October 13)
What It Is: A biopic about a young Thurgood Marshall (Chadwick Boseman, who has already convincingly played Jackie Robinson and James Brown and now adds a third icon of American history). The film essays Marshall’s work as an NAACP attorney on a specific case, a specious rape charge against a man named Joseph Spell (Sterling K. Brown) in Greenwich, Connecticut.
If You Need Convincing: The film is clearly a passion project for the African American director Reginald Hudlin, who has not made a film in 15 years (he’s mostly worked in television and as a producer in recent years). Marshall also features Josh Gad, Kate Hudson, Dan Stevens, and James Cromwell.
The Snowman (October 20)
What It Is: The latest helping of Nordic noir is an adaptation of the best-selling crime thriller by Jo Nesbø; Michael Fassbender stars as Detective Harry Hole, on the hunt of a serial killer with the help of a brilliant recruit (Rebecca Ferguson).
If You Need Convincing: The film is directed by Tomas Alfredson, the Swedish director who excels at moody, frightening works of high tension, including Let the Right One In and Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy.
(BPM) Beats Per Minute (October 20)
What It Is: Also known as 120 Beats Per Minute, Robin Campillo’s new film was a hit at this year’s Cannes Film Festival, where it won the Grand Prix. Set in France in the 1990s, it follows a group of AIDS activists who were part of the advocacy group ACT UP.
If You Need Convincing: The sweeping biopic drew some of the biggest raves of the year at Cannes, drawing comparisons to Larry Kramer’s play The Normal Heart as a landmark work of gay history.
Wonderstruck (October 20)
What It Is: The new film from Todd Haynes (Velvet Goldmine, Far From Heaven, Carol) is a somewhat surprising choice for the director—an adaptation of a children’s book by Brian Selznick. It debuted at Cannes to positive reviews.
If You Need Convincing: The film stars frequent Haynes collaborator Julianne Moore but sounds rather daring from a storytelling perspective, focusing on two parallel plotlines (one in 1927, one in 1977) and following two children on special quests through art museums in search of mysterious heroes.
The Killing of a Sacred Deer (October 27)
What It Is: A bizarre, demented fable of a doctor (Colin Farrell) who is handed an impossible choice regarding the life of his wife (Nicole Kidman) and their children; a grim fairy tale, as funny as it is horrifying. In other words, the new film from the Greek maestro Yorgos Lanthimos (Dogtooth, The Lobster).
If You Need Convincing: Lanthimos isn’t for everyone. But nobody makes movies like him, and Farrell (so good in The Lobster) has become his muse, reciting his odd, robotic dialogue better than anyone. The Killing of a Sacred Deer is even stranger and scarier than the film that got Lanthimos an Oscar nomination, but it still deserves to be seen.
The Square (October 27)
What It Is: A searing, epic, 140-minute satire of social mores and political correctness from Ruben Östlund, the Swedish director behind the 2014 crossover hit Force Majeure. The Square is about a lot of things—the fine line between works of art and publicity campaigns, the tenuous grasp progressives have on their views of the world—and it’s just as searing, if more sprawling, as Ostlund’s last film.
If You Need Convincing: Thanks to the international cachet of his last film, Ostlund has drawn in a bigger cast for The Square, including Elisabeth Moss and Dominic West, who all have brilliantly funny set-pieces devoted to them.
Suburbicon (October 27)
What It Is: A long-awaited crime comedy that’s some 30 years in the making. Directed by George Clooney, the film (about the dark underbelly of a dull American suburb) was first written by the Coen brothers in 1986, shortly after the release of their first movie, Blood Simple.
If You Need Convincing: Clooney has assembled an all-star cast for this strange little black comedy, including Matt Damon, Oscar Isaac, and Julianne Moore; though he hasn’t made a great movie in a few years, he’s still the Oscar-nominated director behind the excellent Good Night, and Good Luck (2005).
Thor: Ragnarok (November 3)
What It Is: The latest Marvel Cinematic Universe effort, the newest in a never-ending barrage of superhero films that now come thrice a year. But don’t turn back! The Thor series has always been most in touch with Marvel’s zany Technicolor storytelling vibe, and Ragnarok, which follows Thor’s adventures in space with the Hulk (Mark Ruffalo), looks like a hoot.
If You Need Convincing: Cate Blanchett is playing the villain Hela (the Norse goddess of death), but more importantly, it’s being directed by Taika Waititi, the up-and-coming New Zealander whose last feature was Hunt for the Wilderpeople, one of the most charming comedies of 2016.
Murder on the Orient Express (November 10)
What It Is: Kenneth Branagh directs and stars as Hercule Poirot, trying to solve one of Agatha Christie’s most famous mysteries. Did the butler do it? Has Poirot’s mustache finally been styled too ridiculously? We’ll soon find out.
If You Need Convincing: The passengers on the Orient Express include Penélope Cruz, Willem Dafoe, Judi Dench, Josh Gad, Derek Jacobi, Hamilton’s Leslie Odom Jr., Michelle Pfeiffer, Daisy Ridley, and Johnny Depp.
Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri (November 10)
What It Is: Mildred Hayes (Frances McDormand) is trying to solve the murder of her daughter in a small Missouri town. Angered that the police aren’t doing their job, she takes out three advertisements to try and shame them into action.
If You Need Convincing: This riotous-looking black comedy looks like career-best work from McDormand and comes from the writer-director Martin McDonagh, the great Irish playwright behind dark film comedies like In Bruges and Seven Psychopaths.
Justice League (November 17)
What It Is: Remember how the DC Comics cinema universe suddenly seemed exciting and fun in the wake of Wonder Woman? This will be the true test if that can be sustained, a team-up film featuring Superman (Henry Cavill), Batman (Ben Affleck), the aforementioned Diana Prince (Gal Gadot), Aquaman (Jason Momoa), The Flash (Ezra Miller), and Cyborg (Ray Fisher).
If You Need Convincing: This film’s production has been chaotic following the tragic death of the director Zack Snyder’s daughter, with the established comic-book hand Joss Whedon coming in to rewrite the script and shoot a bunch of new footage. So even the trailers probably don’t offer a lot of clues on what Justice League will end up being.
Coco (November 22)
What It Is: A new Pixar film, the company’s first original work since 2015’s The Good Dinosaur, which is centered around the Mexican Day of the Dead and its accompanying folklore. It follows Miguel, a young aspiring musician who finds himself in the Land of the Dead, exploring his family history.
If You Need Convincing: Director Lee Unkrich’s last film was Toy Story 3, one of the company’s all-time biggest hits, but he worked closely with the Mexican American animator Adrian Molina (who wrote and co-directed the film with him).
Molly’s Game (November 22)
What It Is: The directorial debut of Aaron Sorkin, based on the true-life memoir of Molly Bloom, who ran high-stakes, underground poker games in the worlds of Hollywood and high finance. Jessica Chastain stars as Molly, who rubbed shoulders with movie stars and the Russian mob before being targeted by an FBI investigation.
If You Need Convincing: Sorkin has long been destined to write and direct, but it’s still an intriguing new challenge for him—he’s never done it before, not even on the TV shows he’s created (like The West Wing or The Newsroom).
Call Me by Your Name (November 24)
What It Is: One of the most hyped Oscar players of the year is this swooning coming-of-age drama, directed by Luca Guadagnino (A Bigger Splash), written by James Ivory, and based on the acclaimed novel by André Aciman. It follows the budding romance between a young man named Elio (Timothée Chalamet) and an older academic called Oliver (Armie Hammer) in an Italian villa in the 1980s.
If You Need Convincing: The film has been wildly hyped at every film festival it has played at, with Hammer and Michael Stuhlbarg’s performances drawing particular acclaim.
Other films to look out for: Nicholas Hoult stars in the J.D. Salinger biopic Rebel in the Rye (September 8); Enlightened creator Mike White directs Ben Stiller in the indie comedy Brad’s Status (September 15); Steve Carell and Emma Stone are Bobby Riggs and Billie Jean King in Battle of the Sexes (September 22); Tom Cruise plays a real-life DEA renegade in American Made (September 29); Kate Winslet and Idris Elba are stranded on a mountain in The Mountain Between Us (October 6); Gerard Butler fights weather gone wild in the so-bad-it’s-great Geostorm (October 20); Margaret Qualley plays a young nun in acclaimed drama Novitiate (October 27); the bad moms are back for more mischief in A Bad Moms Christmas (November 3); Woody Harrelson plays the belligerent president in Rob Reiner’s biopic LBJ (November 3); Richard Linklater directs the war dramedy Last Flag Flying (November 3), Greta Gerwig makes her directorial debut with the comedy Lady Bird (November 10); Gary Oldman inhabits Winston Churchill in his Darkest Hour (November 22); and Benedict Cumberbatch plays Thomas Edison in The Current War (November 24).


The Ferryman, the first new play from Jez Butterworth in five years, opens with the revelation that a body has been found. It’s late August 1981 in Northern Ireland during the height of the Troubles, when hunger strikers were rallying attention and support for the Irish Republican cause. In the play’s first scene, a priest is summoned by an IRA leader—not to facilitate a burial for the dead man, but to keep his family quiet. “You see, Father,” Magennis, an IRA member says, “there’s no oxygen down there. The peat is acidic. It pickles you. The years roll by and nothing changes.”
Seamus Carney, whose body has been found remarkably intact, with his Timex wristwatch, his wallet, and his Gola sneakers, is one of the Disappeared, the 16 men and women who were killed by the IRA and whose bodies were buried in unknown locations, with their families left to wonder for decades whether they were dead or alive. This is the premise of The Ferryman, a critical and commercial smash directed by Sam Mendes (Skyfall), which transferred to London’s West End in June after debuting at the Royal Court Theatre in April. The play is set at harvest time, as Seamus’s older brother, Quinn (Paddy Considine), brings in the bulk of his crops for the year. The timing is no coincidence: Everyone in the play, in one way or another, is reaping what’s been sown.
Escaped Alone Finds Comfort at the End of the World
Butterworth, an Englishman, didn’t set out to write a play set during the Troubles; if anything, he told me, it felt like “a terrible idea, a really really bad one.” Fragments of the play had been percolating in his mind for decades: a work based in part on the experiences of his partner at the time, the actress Laura Donnelly, who plays Caitlin Carney in The Ferryman and whose uncle was disappeared seven months before she was born. “I didn’t want to begin,” Butterworth said, “but once the voices start coming to you, and the plot starts coming to you, you haven’t really got a choice.”
But what sets The Ferryman apart, even from Butterworth’s other successes (his 2009 play Jerusalem was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Play), is how deeply it probes the heritage of hate, using the framework of the Troubles to explore traditions and impulses that are buried even in the earth itself. In the same bog where Seamus was found, Magennis notes, prehistoric men have resurfaced, sometimes with their hands and feet bound, victims of crimes that predate the history books. The Ferryman, an intimate family drama with the breadth of Greek tragedy, explores the impact of deeply entrenched discord on a community that has conflict in its DNA, whose children are raised on folk tales about fierce, warmongering fairies, and who bear the cost of choices made decades ago, the toll passed down from generation to generation.
* * *
Butterworth is a prolific writer for film and television. He contributed to the script for the last Bond movie, Spectre, and cowrote both the Valerie Plame biopic Fair Game, starring Naomi Watts and Sean Penn, and the 2015 Whitey Bulger biopic Black Mass. He’s a writer on the upcoming drama Britannia, a fantastical, Game of Thrones-style series starring David Morrissey and Kelly Reilly. But plays, for him, come slowly. His last show before The Ferryman was The River, which ran in 2012 in productions in London and New York starring, variously, Dominic West and Hugh Jackman. Jerusalem, which debuted in 2009 in a production starring Mark Rylance, was previously his biggest hit to date. “I think for some reason I’ve made film much more of a technique-based thing,” he said. “It’s way more of a craft than I’ve allowed plays to be. I do see them very differently. I don’t have many original ideas for anything. I tend to work for film in a kind of hired-gun capacity, and as such it feels like a blessed relief.”
The idea for The Ferryman coagulated in 2015, when Butterworth was in New York for The River, heading to a cabin owned by Neil Pepe, the artistic director of the Atlantic Theater Company. Butterworth had previously written a significant portion of his play Parlour Song there, after being snowed in while alone. In the car with Donnelly, he suddenly had the idea to write something about Northern Ireland, and when he ran it by her, she replied that it sounded like a story. When he got to the cabin, Butterworth wrote out a skeleton plan for the play, in a shift from his typical process. “Usually, when I’m writing a play, I just follow my nose,” he said. Then he left the concept alone for two years, until, in early 2017, he sat down and started writing. The pace of writing—an idea mulled for several years, followed by a feverish burst of activity—was normal, he said. “They kind of find their way into being. … I do think there’s something about not being in a hurry with things. You want them to feel indelible and worthwhile and not of their time, because they take so much out of you.”
Seamus Carney, whose body has been found at the beginning of the play, disappeared on New Year’s Day 1972, the beginning of the bloodiest year of the Troubles, when 479 people died in the conflict between the Catholic Irish Republicans and the Protestant Unionists. After he disappeared, his wife, Caitlin (Donnelly), and his son, Oisin (Rob Malone), went to stay with Seamus’s older brother, Quinn, who runs the family farm with his wife, Mary (Genevieve O’Reilly), and their seven children. Caitlin’s presence over the past decade has upended the family dynamic; Mary now mostly stays upstairs, suffering the symptoms of a number of vague viruses, while Caitlin helps raise the children, and shares a close relationship with Quinn.
Also living on the farm are Uncle Patrick (Des McAleer), a genial drunkard who recites Virgil, Aunt Patricia (Dearbhla Molloy), the fiercest family devotee to the Republican cause, and Aunt Maggie Faraway (Bríd Brennan), so-called because she drifts in and out of lucidity. Maggie’s poetic interludes, with their fragments of history and glimpses into family lore, give the play a sense of magical realism. In one instance, Maggie recalls how Aunt Pat’s beloved brother Michael was killed in the Easter Rising of 1916, after which Aunt Pat returned home clutching his pistol in a blood-stained handkerchief, while thousands of banshees howled around the grief-stricken and furious sister.
Over and over, the play alludes to the idea of purgatory, where lost souls wait to get to heaven. Uncle Pat quotes from The Aeneid, where the Ferryman who gives the play its name ushers the buried dead to the afterlife. Seamus, unable until now to have a Christian burial, lingers in a purgatory of his own, but so does his wife. “Sure, a kneecapping hurts,” Quinn says. “Even with a death. There’s a body. She can grieve. In time the pain finds a home. But take a man out to a bog in the middle of nowhere. Put a bullet in his head. Then send friends to the widow to tell her they’ve seen him. … Give that woman hope. Keep the wound open. It’s genius, sure it is.”
The play’s themes are both timely and timeless, illuminating the thorny topics of Confederate history in the United States and ISIS attacks in Europe, and the appeal of extremist causes to disaffected young men. In Act Two, the Carneys’ cousins, the three Corcoran boys, come to the farm from the city to help with the harvest, and in a drunken late-night melee in Act Three, the oldest, Shane Corcoran (Tom Glynn-Carney), brags about his involvement with the IRA, trying to wow the country boys with his amped-up antics. Built into the structure of the scene, Butterworth said, is a sense of “delving deep into the past for reasons to still be angry, and to feel that there’s still a fight. You can look at the Corcoran boys and look at those pictures of the four people who were radicalized in Barcelona. The process of radicalization is going on in that late-night scene—the reasons why it happens, and the fact that it’s not necessarily only political.”
But the allure of the family fight has deeper roots still. Diarmaid Corcoran (Conor MacNeill) tells his cousins how, at the funeral for Bobby Sands, an 80-year-old woman on the bus spray-painted “JUSTICE” on the back of his and his brother’s leather jackets as a mantra for the young protestors to remember what they’re working for. The most ferocious IRA supporter on the farm is Aunt Pat, a woman pickled not by peat but by her own desire for revenge. Hearing Margaret Thatcher on the radio, Aunt Pat declares her wish to “disembowel that smirking sanctimonious, stone-hearted sow right here on this table,” and when Quinn protests, she responds, “Have you forgotten your own history there, Quinn Carney? Good luck with that, is all I’ll say.”
More than countless other re-litigations of the Troubles, The Ferryman captures how the mission for Northern Irish independence has become a religion itself, captivating and bloodthirsty, and requiring seemingly endless sacrifices to keep it alive. There are totems and symbols that recur throughout the play: watches and a particular pistol, which becomes a physical manifestation of enmity being passed from one person to another. “I love this one!” the 11-year-old Nunu exclaims when Aunt Maggie begins an ancient fairy tale. “It’s so violent!” And when an IRA leader confronts Quinn, who left the organization a decade ago, he reminds Quinn of his pledge: “You looked me in the eye and said you’d watch that baby burn in a fire, if it meant a free Ireland. And I thought, ‘That is what it takes. That is the cost of freedom. The price is unimaginable. And here is a man who knows that. And is willing to pay it.’”
For audiences in London, a city that lived through IRA bombings in the ’70s and ’80s, the show has the luxury of historical distance from the Troubles. It can excavate the dimensions of a conflict that was often interpreted at the time through the bluntest political rhetoric. Given that the play has already recouped its investment in London, and that Butterworth’s previous works have gone to Broadway, it seems likely, he said, that this one will also move across the Atlantic at some point. And as The Ferryman has resonated with English audiences, it will have its own imprint on Americans, whose history with hatred is as different as it’s the same. The show’s universality, Butterworth said, “comes back to the fact that the ideas that really haunt you have a universal quality to them. That it wouldn’t matter where you’re from or how old you are or how you got to the theater that day. They’ll gain traction, and quickly.”


This story contains spoilers through the end of Twin Peaks: The Return.
Never let it be said that David Lynch leaves his audiences unsatisfied. Presented with the challenge of finding a suitable conclusion to his dazzling, incomparable 18-hour odyssey Twin Peaks: The Return, the director gave viewers the best of both worlds. The first hour of Sunday’s two-episode finale was as clean an ending as fans could have expected from a series that so often defied the most basic concepts of television plotting. And the second hour saw that all unravel, with a resolution that was at once tedious and mesmerizing, a jolt of primal horror delivered to provoke utter bewilderment. It was a conclusion that seemed to undo the show’s entire existence, while leaving us with as many questions as before.
But there’s nothing wrong with questions. “Good art asks questions, you know?” the show’s star, Kyle MacLachlan, said in an interview given after the finale aired. And Twin Peaks: The Return was good art indeed, diverging from the 1990 ABC series it sequelized in so many ways but giving viewers the same thing its forbear did: a television experience genuinely unlike anything that had come before. In the months since the revival debuted, I’ve been foolish enough to try and predict where its story arcs might be heading, what conflicts might be bubbling to the surface week to week. But the creators Lynch and Mark Frost (who cowrote every episode together, with Lynch directing) never let an episode pass without a scene that rendered me dumbfounded at its ambition.
Twin Peaks Returns to Terrify, Delight, and Confound
There are too many to list, but I’ll try and recall at least a few: Agent Dale Cooper’s navigation of a mystical black-and-white fortress, the beginning of a particularly trying hero’s journey. The trials and tribulations of “Mr. Jackpots,” the perennial casino winner bankrupting its beleaguered bosses in one crazy night. The first reveal of an older Bobby Briggs (Dana Ashbrook, one of the most revelatory performances of the year), gazing at a portrait of his long-dead girlfriend Laura Palmer. The execution of Chantal (Jennifer Jason Leigh) and Hutch (Tim Roth) by an angry Polish man. Evil Cooper’s arm-wrestling match with a Teutonic gangster. A visceral rant, delivered from a stopped car, by an unnamed female driver trying to get her family home. The endless depths of the show’s magical eighth episode, detailing the birth of the villainous Bob and the behaviors of the sooty “woodsmen” who accompany him. And the slow, sensuous dream dance of Audrey Horne (Sherilyn Fenn), seemingly trapped in the prison of her own mind, to close the sixteenth episode.
If Showtime’s Twin Peaks had an overarching plot, it was about the return of Dale Cooper, split into two bodies: one a half-mute simulacrum called Dougie, incapable of much more than parroting back whatever was said to him, and the other Bob himself, inhabiting Cooper’s body and seeding mayhem across America. Their inevitable confrontation was drawn-out, but in the show’s penultimate episode, it finally came to pass, with Evil Cooper laid out by the well-meaning police secretary Lucy, and Good Cooper finally shaken out of his reverie, there to watch the destruction of his tormentor.
This was the “satisfying” part—I put that word in quotes not because the episode wasn’t a joy to watch, but because for Twin Peaks, a satisfying plot resolution still features some of the most confusing imagery I’ve ever witnessed on television. Bob (the late Frank Silva, whose image was used with great and sparing power by Lynch in this revival) emerged from Cooper’s body as a spinning globe of hate; he was eventually destroyed by Freddie (Jake Wardle), a comparatively minor character with superhuman punching power, delivering a literal right hook to the jaw of evil incarnate.
But what to make of the finale—Episode 18—itself? It was, for the most part, a haunted trek through the series’s deepest, darkest psychological scar, the murder and abuse of Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee), the show’s iconic victim and the protagonist of Lynch’s wrenchingly sad film, Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me. Many times throughout Twin Peaks: The Return, characters have been treated to a vision of a vortex in the sky, a swirling portal to another world where supernatural beings of emotion try to guide them through their fated paths. Whether this portal is allegory or pure, soaring fantasy, Lynch has always specialized in giving unique flesh to our sorrows, our pains, and our desires to be better or to wallow in pity. The show’s “Black Lodge,” or this series’s black-and-white fortress (rendered as a sort of cinema of the mind’s eye), are beautiful, but confounding realms of darkness and light, seemingly serving as proving grounds for Cooper’s heroic odyssey back into the real world.
The FBI agent’s final journey was centered around Laura, the young woman whose murder he successfully solved in the original series. In the Twin Peaks: The Return finale, after witnessing Bob’s destruction, Cooper traveled back to the scene of Laura’s murder, guiding her away from the crime and apparently erasing it from the show’s history (archival footage of the pilot ended with no body being found wrapped in plastic along the shore). But then, after an unnerving car drive and sex scene with his assistant Diane (Laura Dern), Cooper found himself in a random motel in Texas, subsequently discovering Laura living under a different name, unaware of her identity. As Cooper took Laura to her childhood home, the place where she was tormented by Bob (possessing the body of her father), he found a different family living there; suddenly confused, he asked, “What year is it?” as Laura let out an unearthly scream.
Some devoted fans of the show will debate the semiotic meaning of every scene and gesture in the finale, to try and puzzle out whatever new nightmare Dale and Laura have created for themselves. Cooper’s quest to save Laura, in the end, seemed recursive, and his search for some magical deliverance at her old home (such a portentous place) seemed especially misguided; it felt like Lynch trying to depict the ultimate foolishness of thinking every loose end can be tied up, that every wrong can be undone.
Toward the end of the season, FBI Deputy Director Gordon Cole (played by Lynch) recalled a dream he had in which the actress Monica Bellucci (playing herself) spoke to him at a restaurant in Paris. “We are like the dreamer who dreams and then lives inside the dream,” she told him, adding with a hint of worry, “But who is the dreamer?” There’s no better way to sum up the world of Twin Peaks all the way through its finale. Is Cooper dreaming this all up? Is Lynch? Are the viewers? Whatever the answer, we’re all living inside the dream, forever seeking that dreamer.


The release schedule for the next few months of music is chockablock with new voices, classic names, and bands in the process of transitioning from the first category to the second. I’ve collected some of the more interesting-looking albums below. Note that this list only includes music for which a release date has been announced—a significant limitation in the era of the surprise album drop.
September 8
The National, Sleep Well Beast
This generation’s glum-funny heir to Leonard Cohen, Matt Berninger, delivers unusually lucid lyrics as his now-venerable Brooklyn band experiments with drum machines and snarling guitar solos.Listen to: “The System Only Dreams in Total Darkness”
Syd, Always Never Home
What it is: The dreamy R&B singer already released one acclaimed album this year and now delivers a so-called “feature soundtrack” that promises more immersive, shape-shifting storytelling.Listen to: “Bad Dream / No Looking Back”
Ted Leo, The Hanged Man
The cult-beloved power-pop bandleader’s first album in seven years is a catchy, urgent, and inventive cry against complacency in all its forms.Listen to: “You’re Like Me”
Tori Amos, Native Invader
Donald Trump’s election caused the storied singer-songwriter to scrap much of her planned 15th album so as to address the political moment, but she retains her evocative style and interest in the natural world.Listen to: “Cloud Riders”
Neil Young, Hitchhiker
One of the “lost albums” Neil Young recorded in the late ’70s, the acoustic Hitchhiker includes early takes on some of the icon’s classic songs as well as two previously unheard cuts.Listen to: “Hitchhiker”
September 15
Prophets of Rage, Prophets Of Rage
Members of Rage Against the Machine, Public Enemy, and Cypress Hill teamed up for a protest-music tour during the 2016 election and now are releasing a batch of slogan-slinging originals.Listen to: “Radical Eyes”
Gucci Mane, Mr. Davis
The Atlanta rap charmer has been on a tear since leaving prison in 2016, and his third album in a year boasts an all-star roster of collaborators including Nicki Minaj and The Weeknd.Listen to: “I Get the Bag,” featuring Migos
Ringo Starr, Give More Love
The two living Beatles reunite for the rambunctious opener to Ringo’s 19th solo album, and there’s a little more help from Ringo’s friends—Joe Walsh, Peter Frampton, Edgar Winter—later in the track list.Listen to: “We’re On the Road Again,” featuring Paul McCartney
September 22
Godspeed You! Black Emperor, Luciferian Towers
The masters of the gorgeously ominous instrumental epic have an especially anarchist raison d’etre on their sixth album, which arrives with a list of political demands and a three-part closer called “Anthem for No State.”Listen to: “Storm” (from 2000’s Lift Your Skinny Fists Like Antennas to Heaven)
Cut Copy, Haiku From Zero
The smartest and slickest of this century’s new-wave revival acts say that they channeled modern information overload while recording their latest set of glitterball anthems.Listen to: “Standing in the Middle of the Field”
The Killers, Wonderful WonderfulEarly hints about the “Mr. Brightside” authors’ first album in five years indicates even greater levels of nostalgia, irony, and Oingo Boingo influence with which to rock arenas than before.Listen to: “Run for Cover”
Leon Russell, On a Distant Shore
The blues rocker who saw a late-in-life resurgence in popularity thanks to a collaboration with Elton John recorded this set of originals and standards before his death last fall.Listen to: “Love This Way”
Midland, On the Rocks
This new country trio is drawing buzz for following Chris Stapleton’s example by harkening back to “classic” country and rock sounds—but with the pop sheen associated with their hitmaking Nashville label Big Machine Records.Listen to: “Drinkin’ Problem”
September 29
Kamasi Washington, Harmony of Difference EP
A jazz saxophonist enjoying rare crossover stardom in the worlds of pop and hip-hop in part due to collaborations with Kendrick Lamar, Washington is releasing six songs he first debuted at the Whitney Biennial earlier this year.Listen to: “Truth”
Miley Cyrus, Younger Now
No longer a pop provocateur, Cyrus is rebooting herself as a soft-edged rocker and country singer—though the quirk in her voice definitely remains.Listen to: “Malibu”
Protomartyr, Relatives In Descent    
This Detroit punk-poetry act has emerged as one of the most interesting new bands in years, and a blazing new single hints this fourth album could bring them a wider audience.Listen to: “A Private Understanding”
Shania Twain, Now
The country-crossover megastar of the ’90s returns to build on the generational goodwill that has accumulated in the 15 years since she last released an album.Listen to: “Life’s About to Get Good”
Wolf Alice, Visions of a Life
The British alternative rock band has been bubbling as a next-big-thing contender for a few years now, and the singles from their sophomore album offer a tasty blend of dreaminess and aggression.Listen to: “Don’t Delete the Kisses”
October 6
Kelela, Take Me Apart
After years of tinkering, the acclaimed and futuristic singer says her proper debut will reflect her identity as “a black woman [and] a second-generation Ethiopian American, who grew up in the 'burbs listening to R&B, jazz, and Björk.”Listen to: “LMK”
October 13
Robert Plant, Carry Fire
What it is: The Led Zeppelin legend’s latest single shares its name with a “Stairway to Heaven” lyric, but Plant has said he’s journeying to new musical territory, and his solo career to date suggests it’ll be worth following him there.Listen to: “The May Queen”
Beck, ColorsWhat it is: The follow-up to Beck’s beautifully downbeat surprise Grammy Album of the Year winner, Morning Phase, should see the chameleonic songwriter returning to the realm of bold, upbeat pop.Listen to: “Wow”
Wu-Tang Clan, Wu-Tang: The Saga ContinuesWhat it is: The strange saga of their previous album—whose one copy ended up in the hands of Martin Shkreli—seemingly concluded, the rap collective has made what RZA calls a “masterpiece” that will be, refreshingly, available to all.Listen to: “People Say”
Kurt Vile and Courtney Barnett, Lotta Sea Lice
What it is: Two of the most distinctive singer/songwriters to recently rise in indie rock now blend their dry wits and lackadaisical charm.Listen to: “Over Everything”
October 20
Lindstrøm, It’s Alright Between Us As It Is
This Norwegian electronic musician can be relied on for breezily melodic dance music to energize not only nightclubs but also workdays.Listen to: “Shinin,” featuring Grace Hall
Destroyer, Ken
The poet-weirdo of The New Pornographers, Dan Bejar, offers his 12th album of oddly beautiful lounge rock with hissed, heady lyrics.Listen to: “Sky’s Grey”
October 27
Weezer, Pacific Daydream
Last year’s “white album” was the best and most heartfelt release in years from these California pop-rock stalwarts; now comes the seasonally inappropriate, beach-themed follow-up.Listen to: “Feels Like Summer”
Julien Baker, Turn Out the Lights
A rising Memphis folk-rock singer capable of disarming delicacy and forthrightness, Baker is releasing the follow-up to an acclaimed 2015 debut.Listen to: “Appointments”
November 10
Taylor Swift, Reputation
Her two confrontational, hip-hop-inflected singles suggest that the pop titan most of America could once agree on is looking to start arguments this time out.Listen to: “Ready for It”
November 17Morrissey, Low in High School
The ever-arch, ever-quarrelsome, and never-humble singer from The Smiths “[captures] the zeitgeist of an ever-changing world” on his 11th solo album, says his label.Listen to: “Suedehead” (from 1988’s Viva Hate)


Each year, I keep a running list of exceptional nonfiction that I encounter as I publish The Best of Journalism, an email newsletter that I curate weekly for its subscribers. This is my annual attempt to bring roughly 100 of those stories that stood the test of time to a wider audience. I could not read or note every worthy article published in the past few years, and I haven't included any paywalled articles or anything published at The Atlantic. But everything that follows is worthy of wider attention and engagement. I hope it provides fodder for reflection and inspiration for future writing. My thanks to all of the publishers, editors and, writers who made these gems possible.
POPULAR MECHANICS / Marooned Among the Polar Bears by Justin Nobel
“Sergey Ananov is trapped on a slab of ice in the Arctic Circle. He has no locator beacon, no phone, and barely any water. The fog will hide him from any rescuers. Night will come. Hypothermia will come. And whatever large, powerful creatures that scratch out their existence in this primordial world—maybe they will come too.”
STARTUP / Season Four by Lisa Chow (audio)
Dov Charney recounts his rise and fall at American Apparel and tries to make a comeback.
THE NEW YORKER / Citizen Khan by Kathryn Schulz
“Wyoming is huge—you could fit all of New England inside it, then throw in Hawaii and Maryland for good measure—but it is the least populous state in the Union; under six hundred thousand people live there, fewer than in Louisville, Kentucky. Its Muslim population is correspondingly tiny—perhaps seven or eight hundred people. Contrary to the claims of Stop Islam in Gillette, however, the Muslims who established the mosque are not new to the region. Together with some twenty per cent of all Muslims in Wyoming, they trace their presence back more than a hundred years, to 1909, when a young man named Zarif Khan immigrated to the American frontier.”
DAGBLADET / The Baby in the Plastic Bag by Bernt Jakob Oksnes
“The plastic bag is stained with blood. He leans down, grasps one of the handles, and realises that there is yet another carrier bag inside the first, its handles knotted together. As he works to untie the knot, muffled whimpers can be heard from within. The knot gives way and the plastic handles slide apart. As Tor glances inside the bag, he beholds what lies within. It is a human being. A living newborn baby, blue and cold.”
CHICAGO MAGAZINE / Dispatches From the Rap Wars by Forrest Stuart
“For the gang—and others like it—the rappers are designated as the ticket out of poverty. It becomes the responsibility of the rest of the members to support and protect them. Each rapper has ‘shooters.’ These are members who make good on the threats the rappers dish out in their lyrics. And, yes, that means shooting—and sometimes killing—people. CBE has about a dozen shooters. A.J. may be the one holding an automatic weapon in his Instagram photos, but he has never shot at the opps.”
ROADS & KINGDOMS / The Barnacle Queens of the Spanish Seaside by Matt Goulding
“When she left her job to work the rocks, she fell instantly in love with almost everything about her new profession: the open air, the ever-changing office space, the sisterly camaraderie. But she didn’t love the way she and her fellow women were treated.”
GQ / Inside the Federal Bureau of Way Too Many Guns by Jeanne Marie Laskas
“There's no telling how many guns we have in America—and when one gets used in a crime, no way for the cops to connect it to its owner. The only place the police can turn for help is a Kafkaesque agency in West Virginia, where, thanks to the gun lobby, computers are illegal and detective work is absurdly antiquated. On purpose. Thing is, the geniuses who work there are quietly inventing ways to do the impossible.”
SPIEGEL / Three Shepherds on a Surreal Front by Christoph Reuter
“The attempt to retake Mosul from Islamic State has been underway for almost two weeks. Resistance is fierce and chaos on the front lines has resulted in some surreal scenes.”
HUFFPOST / Meet the Ungers by Jason Fagone
“When they were young, 230 men and one woman were convicted of terrible crimes—murders, rapes, robberies. They thought they were going to die in prison. They were supposed to. But then, just a few years back, Merle Unger Jr., one of the most notorious escape artists of our time, discovered an ingenious (and legal) way to get them out. It was an unimagined second chance for them—and a nerve-wracking experiment for everyone else.”
THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE / David’s Ankles: How Imperfections Could Bring Down the World’s Most Perfect Statue by Sam Anderson
“My mind could not stop imagining it. An earthquake hits the center of Florence: The church bells ring out of time, terra cotta tiles rain down from the Renaissance rooftops, priceless paintings rattle off the walls of the Uffizi. Meanwhile, inside the Accademia Gallery, the David’s pedestal begins to tilt. Slightly at first, just enough to shift the statue’s gaze, so that he looks not at his old enemy anymore—the implied Goliath off in the distance—but at a new one: the floor he’s been standing on for 134 years.”
THE LOS ANGELES TIMES / Framed by Christopher Goffard
“She ran down the hall, seized by panic. She thought it must be about her husband, who was now working as a traveling wine salesman. He was on the road all the time, and she thought he’d been in an accident. Officer Charles Shaver tried to calm her down. He was not here about her husband. Did she have anything in her car she shouldn’t have?”
VANITY FAIR / Joan Rivers’s Remarkable Rise to (and Devastating Fall From) Comedy’s Highest Ranks by Leslie Bennetts
“Only a few months earlier, Joan Rivers had everything she ever wanted: fame and fortune, the job of her dreams, a loyal husband, a loving child, a lavish estate—and a future that beckoned with enticing possibilities. After years of struggle, she had not only succeeded as a comedian, but made history on the newly launched FOX Network as television’s first and only female late-night talk show host. And now she’d lost it all.”
ESPN / O.J.: Made in America (video)
The year’s best documentary.
THE WASHINGTON POST / From Belief to Outrage: The Decline of the Middle Class Reaches the Next American Town by Eli Saslow
“Fast-food consumption was beginning to tick up. Foreclosures were up. Meth usage up. Heroin up. Death rate up. In Dan Quayle’s Middle America, one of the biggest news stories of the year had been the case of a mother who had let her three-week-old child suck heroin off her finger.”
THE WEEKLY STANDARD / Big Budget Items by Andrew Ferguson
“As you walked around you got the idea that here, right here, after 200 years of ceaseless propulsion across a vast continent, the American dream had finally come to rest. This is where it had been heading all along. And then you turned a corner and saw that Frank Gehry didn't like it.”
VIRGINIA QUARTERLY REVIEW/ Vertical Descent by Elisabeth Donnelly
“If sport, in the truest, downright ancient-Olympic sense of the word, is embodied by a lone warrior running to Marathon to tell the troops news of war, then ‘synchro,’ as it’s called by insiders, is its opposite. It’s not a war game. It’s not a show of superior speed and cunning in comparison to a direct opponent. It developed over the last hundred years, and it’s obstensibly, on the surface, showbiz. Yet while showbiz may be in its origins, synchro is a celebration of extraordinary athletes proving that they can perform with skill and beauty in the water. It combines dance, gymnastics, choreography, originality, and artistry in order to tell a story. The competition, as it is, is seeing who can be more perfect in the water.”
THE LINCOLN JOURNAL STAR / A Mom for All Ages by Marcella Mercer
“Medicine for Arianna and Dontae alone tops out at $12,200 a month. The family’s medical needs are so massive and complex that Lynn’s Dakotamart Pharmacy in nearby Belle Fourche hired an additional full-time employee just to process their prescriptions. By age 3, it had cost about $3 million to keep Arianna alive.”
REPLY ALL / A Simple Question and Lost in a Cab by PJ Vogt and Alex Goldman (audio)
SACRAMENTO NEWS & REVIEW / Homeless—and In Hiding by Raheem F. Hosseini
“There are more than a dozen—mostly of Southeast Asian descent, dehydrated and dazed groggy by the sun—but this represents only a third of the people who called this field home and flew under the radar of Sacramento County’s lead homeless agency. Or at least they used to.”
OXFORD AMERICAN / Ride Along With the Cow Police by Matt Wolfe
“Cattle rustling, signature crime of the Old West, has returned to Texas.”
ARS TECHNICA / Finding North America’s Lost Medieval City by Annalee Newitz
“A thousand years ago, huge pyramids and earthen mounds stood where East St. Louis sprawls today in Southern Illinois. This majestic urban architecture towered over the swampy Mississippi River floodplains, blotting out the region's tiny villages. Beginning in the late 900s, word about the city spread throughout the southeast. Thousands of people visited for feasts and rituals, lured by the promise of a new kind of civilization.”
GQ / Inside the Church of Chili’s by Daniel Riley
“Like most chains, there’s plenty that’s cheesy about Chili’s Grill and Bar. But there is also something special—something that converts its most devoted employees into enthusiastic, unblinking evangelists. Their devotion to The Sizzle is pure, and these are their secrets.”
THE WASHINGTON POST / ‘What Kind of Childhood Is That’ by Eli Saslow
“After losing their parents to overdoses, three children confront America's opioid epidemic.”
THE GUARDIAN / McDonald’s: You Can Sneer, But It’s the Glue That Holds Communities Together by Chris Arnade
“When many lower-income Americans feel isolated and empty, they yearn for physical social networks. And all across the U.S., this happens organically at McDonald’s.”
WIRED / The Internet Really Has Changed Everything by Rex Sorgatz
“Napoleon would be trapped in the amber of time, in a big glass case, if not for one thing: access to information.”
CITY JOURNAL / Portrait of the Neighborhood as a Hipster Haven by Kay S. Hymowitz
“Williamsburg’s creative class has learned the ways of market competition, profits, distribution, business plans, customer satisfaction, and vertical markets, along with sustainability, organic materials, and community responsibility. The marriage between art, millennial politics, and old-fashioned capitalism will strike some as Marx’s worst fear come true. But even the haters would have to admit that it tastes and looks good.”
THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE / What Happened to Worcester? by Adam Davidson
“These two trapped, poor, broken people somehow met and managed to put all that pain behind and create a new life in what still felt like the fresh, quickly growing frontier of central Massachusetts. Bumpa, following a tip from a minister who had moved to Worcester, seems to have arrived in the city with an office job in hand, at the Heald Machine Company, where he worked until his retirement decades later. A combination of historical luck, a fast-growing economy, and his own hard work enabled him to carve out a good life that must have seemed unattainable when he was younger.”
THE WASHINGTON POST / ‘How’s Amanda?’ by Eli Saslow
“She had no job, no high school diploma, no car and no money beyond what her mother gave her for Mountain Dew and cigarettes. A few days earlier, a dentist had pulled all 28 of her teeth, which had decayed from years of neglect. It had been a week since she’d seen her 9-year-old twin sons, who lived in a nearby suburb with their father, and lately the most frequent text messages coming into her phone were from a dealer hoping to lure her back with free samples.”
COMMENTARY and NATIONAL REVIEW / Trump’s Terrifying Online Brigades and Why White-Nationalist Thugs Thrill to Trump by James Kirchick
“Though we all have reason to be annoyed by the resurgence of political correctness, the alt-right remedy is the oratorical inverse of the problem they claim to despise. Social-justice warriors needlessly shut down debate and proscribe words and ideas to assuage the feelings of allegedly vulnerable minority groups; the alt-right flings around racial epithets and Der Stürmer cartoons purely to transgress accepted social codes. And that’s only the most charitable explanation for their behavior, assuming as it does that they don’t ‘really’ mean what they say. But what about that element of the alt-right that actually does have a political agenda beyond annoying its adversaries?”
THE CUT / From Pickup Artist to Pariah by Rachel Monroe
“Jared Rutledge fancied himself a big man of the ‘manosphere.’ But when his online musings about 46 women were exposed, his whole town turned against him.”
THE WEEK / The columns of Michael Brendan Dougherty in aggregate, including America Is More Divided Than Ever. So Why Is Obama Optimistic?, Why Is America Backing Saudi Arabia’s Atrocious War in Yemen? Donald Trump’s Malicious Stupidity, How Hillary Clinton Could Blow It, Trump vs. Clinton Is a Verdict on America, How Donald Trump Watered Down the Very Idea of American Greatness, This Election Is God’s Judgment on Us, and The Limits of a Trump Presidency
THE NEW YORKER / The Most Exclusive Restaurant in America by Nick Paumgarten
“Damon Baehrel’s methods are a marvel, and his tables are all booked until 2025. Or are they?”
THE RINGER / The Burning Desire for Hot Chicken by Danny Chau
“Hot chicken was a dish created for the express purpose of bringing a man to his knees. Its origin myth wasn’t the result of a mistake, like chocolate chip cookies, Coca-Cola, or the French dip sandwich. Hot chicken was premeditated; to this day, every bite of Nashville hot chicken is touched by the spectral presence of a betrayed lover.”
TAMPA BAY TIMES / Farm to Fable by Laura Reiley
“What makes buying food different from other forms of commerce is this: It’s a trust-based system. How do you know the Dover sole on your plate is Dover sole? Only that the restaurateur said so. And how can you be sure the strawberries your toddler is gobbling are free of pesticides? Only because the vendor at the farmers market said so. Your purchases are unverifiable unless you drive to that farm or track back through a restaurant’s distributors and ask for invoices. I did.”
FOOD 52 / In Sickness, In Health, In White Castle by Allison Robicelli
“The children the doctors said you’d never bear came immediately. He didn’t drive, but occasionally he took three trains to White Castle to surprise you with a sack of ten. Sometimes you were so happy you’d cry. Sometimes you’d scream at him for not psychically knowing you were nauseous. You’re amazed that he never once—back then and in all the years that followed—stopped trying to make you happy.”
THE RINGER / Sriracha Is a Quintessentially American Flavor by Danny Chau
“David Tran’s exact sriracha recipe may not be available to the public, but with only six core ingredients (red jalapenos, garlic, distilled vinegar, sugar, salt, and xanthan gum), it’s as open source as any name-brand foodstuff. But no matter how good or bad an outside interpretation, the signifiers always lead you back to the source, to the first time you let the rooster into your life.”
LUCKY PEACH / Why New York Is Better Than San Francisco by Peter Meehan
“My best memories are experiences of texture more than flavor: crinkly, crumpled, shiny foil keeping a sandwich swaddled in steam-softened white paper piping hot; the kaiser roll crumbly, the fine cornmeal from its underside adding a pleasant grit to the assemblage; the bacon on the border of unbearably crisp but not too far gone; the egg, if eaten while magma-hot, still passably tender; squeezed-out packages of ketchup providing cool, sweet counterpoint.”
EATER / Maybe Just Don’t Drink Coffee by Matt Buchanan
“At this point you could, as more than half of all American adults do on a daily basis, drink a cup of coffee to stave off the fog of imminent unconsciousness. After all, you love coffee. And not just because of the caffeine. But have you really thought it all through?”
LIFE & THYME / Good Graces by Carolyn Phillips
“As my mother-in-law reaches out and refills my cup, I do not know whether I am more shocked by the senseless cruelties in her story or by the fact that she has just now actually served me tea.”
EATER / The People’s Cheeseburger by Willy Blackmore
“Locol’s messaging isn’t geared toward people who will not be its primary customers. Choi and Patterson don’t openly talk about conscious capitalism or triple-bottom lines. They’re mostly just leaning on the premise that serving neighborhoods like Watts, which often have a dearth of food options beyond corner stores and outposts of gigantic chains, is good business both ethically and fiscally, and likely to be profitable.”
GIMLET MEDIA / Milk Wanted by Phia Bennin (audio)
“A breast milk paradise, shady breastmilk scammers, and the surprising history of breast milk in the United States.”
ROADS & KINGDOMS / A Last Dinner in the Jungle by Shane Mitchell
“Here, atop a toxic landfill, mired in mud and muck, in a makeshift kitchen lacking running water or refrigeration, was a bird to sing about. A spicy paste clung to pieces of meat, juicy without being greasy. What do you crave when you can’t go home again? Or worse, fear being sent back? Perhaps this drumstick, DayGlo red with spices.”
THE WEEKLY STANDARD / The Migrants of Calais by Christopher Caldwell
“We are using antiquated categories that make the most explosive social problems of our time wholly invisible to us. The geographical segregation into globalized and unglobalized areas has created a sort of epistemological trap. From the age of social democracy, when class was measured by one dimension, income, we have inherited the habit of assuming political issues will pit ‘the rich’ against ‘the poor.’ But today's issues don't. The dividing line on most issues is whether people are being helped or hurt by the global economy.”
GARDEN AND GUN / The Columns Hotel by Rick Bragg
“It was as if someone had taken so much of what is lovely and unique about this place and just hung it on the thick, wet air, to be admired. It was just a moment, fine in itself.”
HAZLITT / Hunger Makes Me by Jess Zimmerman
“A man’s appetite can be hearty, but a woman with an appetite—for food, for sex, for simple attention—is always voracious: she always overreaches, because it is not supposed to exist.”
VIRGINIA QUARTERLY REVIEW / Cost of Living by Emily Maloney
“At some point I started billing differently. I can’t say when. It could have been when we had a patient die and I had to bill his family. It could have been when I saw the dizzying costs that were itemized for inpatient bills, or the time the woman I evaluated—my patient, our patient—and then billed was saddled with an amount she could never hope to pay. I remember her: how she came in and explained that things were difficult, that she didn’t have insurance, but she needed someone to lance the boil that had erupted at her waistline. It had been causing her incredible pain, to the point where she could no longer dress herself. Please, she said. But she had already been registered, been given an ID bracelet, all the apparatuses of the emergency department and its tracking. Her bill popped up later on my screen; I saw the amount. This, somehow, totaled the cost of living. I thought of my own unpaid medical debt, reduced the amount, told no one, and let the next chart flash across my screen.”
n+1 / Every Body Goes Haywire by Anna Altman
“It’s inconceivable to most people that this is it—there is no other, underlying condition. The headaches are the condition itself.”
ELLE / My Destructive Dependency on Migraine Drugs by Dana Goldstein
“For a period of several years that ended only six months ago, I had a migraine, of varying degrees of intensity, essentially 100 percent of the time that I was awake.”
THE GUARDIAN / Dance Lessons for Writers by Zadie Smith
“On YouTube you will find them, locked in many dance-offs, and so you are presented with a stark choice. But it’s not a question of degrees of ability, of who was the greater dancer. The choice is between two completely opposite values: legibility on the one hand, temporality on the other. Between a monument (Jackson) and a kind of mirage (Prince).”
LIT HUB / Walking While Black by Garnette Cadogan
“The sidewalk was a minefield, and every hesitation and self-censored compensation reduced my dignity. Despite my best efforts, the streets never felt comfortably safe.”
FACEBOOK / What It’s Like to Be Black in Naperville by Brian Crooks
“Please, bear with me for a few minutes. Hopefully, it'll help you understand why I feel the way I do about what's been going on.”
NATIONAL AFFAIRS / Renewing the University by Alan Jacobs
“When students demand the intervention of administrative authority to solve every little conflict, they end reinforce a power structure in which students and faculty alike are stripped of moral agency, in which all of us in the university—including the administrators themselves—become instruments in the hands of a self-perpetuating bureaucratic regime. Few social structures could be more alien to the character of true education.”
FILM COMMENT / The Great Recession by Shonni Enelow
“While cooler styles have always been with us, from Greta Garbo and Cary Grant to Steve McQueen and Charlotte Rampling, those actors communicate that they are above or outside of emotion, either aristocratically detached or winningly unflappable. In contrast, the thread of resistance to and evasion of spectacular emotionality among many in today’s new generation of stars doesn’t evoke emotional detachment or indifference but rather a tortured mistrust of expression itself—one that, in its understated way, clearly forms its own kind of emotional appeal to the audience at the same time as it dramatizes why the actor must resist making one.”
REAL LIFE / Auto Format by Navneet Alang
“Twitter has colonized my mind. Almost every day for just under a decade, I have checked the site, have tweeted, retweeted, been subtweeted. My mental map is the frontier surrendered, and Twitter is the empire. To become occupied by a social network is to internalize its gaze. It is to forever carry a doubled view of both your own mind and the platform’s.”
BRIGHT WALL / DARK ROOM / The Grace of Keanu Reeves by Angelica Jade Bastién
“Keanu, of course, isn’t the first star to exist at the crossroads of virile and vulnerable. Actors like James Dean, Montgomery Clift, and Paul Newman embody a similar alchemy that have drawn women (and men) to them. But these actors often seem to fight against the lustful gaze of the camera, while Keanu supplants himself to it. Where they seem cynical, disinterested, or too wounded as a romantic lead, Keanu is utterly open.”
THE AMERICAN SCHOLAR / Saving the Self in the Age of the Selfie by James McWilliams
“Daily life offers endless opportunities to cultivate character-building behaviors that, once they become habitual, can nurture our weapons of resistance rather than exchange them for the conveniences of the Internet. Four of these habits stand out as essential to the preservation of an anchored identity: spending time alone, engaging in meaningful conversations, forming friendships, and pursuing an activity within a community. Imagine, if you can, an identity that’s permitted to develop with minimal interference from digital culture and you’ll begin to grasp the benefits that these four kinds of stresses can have on a self hoping to develop a healthier relationship with digitized life.”
THE WEEKLY STANDARD / Love Me Do by Andrew Ferguson
“A bit past the midpoint of the last century, roughly from early 1967 to late 1969, a sizable number of human beings believed that Paul McCartney was the coolest man who ever lived. Compared with your average world-historical claim, this one was not unreasonable.”
PRISON UK / Preparing for Prison by Alex Cavendish
“Never underestimate that cold click of steel as your wrist is cuffed, chaining you to another human being who now has control over you. Most newly convicted prisoners are so shocked at the experience that they become compliant. I know I did.”
GARDEN AND GUN / Dog Days of Youth by Douglas Cutting
“At daybreak, about the moment when ducks move before legal light, I snapped off the couch from a bad dream and looked around. Total silence. I scrambled to the porch door. Saw Gauge Man on his bed, sound asleep. Stared. Looked around again, buzzing with exhaustion and delirium. Looked back at my dog—slick pawed and skinned up around his nose and chin—and realized it was real. He’d run a long way back from somewhere, and he was home, and so I piled onto the old dog bed with him and buried my face in his fur and suddenly recognized all the spaces he filled.”
AEON / Nadia’s Story by Ana Todorović
“We could get into an ambulance and go to Southampton, where I would have a caesarean and Nadia would be put on a machine for some time, ‘to give her heart a rest’. Then she would be treated with drugs, and she would have to stay in hospital. Perhaps for six months, perhaps for a year. She might not survive the birth, or the machine, or the medication, but if she did, there would be some chance of a full recovery. And some chance of a partial recovery, a life with a debilitating heart disease, or disability, or both. The alternative path would be to ‘put her to sleep’ with a needle to the heart, after which her birth would be induced and it would all be over.”
THIS AMERICAN LIFE / Will I Know Anyone at This Party? (audio)
“Right now lots of Republicans feel like they don’t recognize their own party. Like a Minnesota congressman who’s confused when the residents in his district, people he’s known for years, start calling for a ban on Muslims moving to their town.”
THIS AMERICAN LIFE / Who’s Really on Line One? by Zoe Chace (audio)
A radio producer “goes to Greenville, South Carolina to talk with Tony Beam – host of the radio show Christian Worldview Today. Tony and his listeners are evangelical Christians, and usually, Tony backs a candidate for office and his listeners tend to agree with him. But this election season, things are playing out very differently.”
MOTHER JONES / I Spent 5 Years With Some of Trump’s Biggest Fans. Here’s What They Won’t Tell You by Arlie Russell Hochschild
“The deep story of the right goes like this: You are patiently standing in the middle of a long line stretching toward the horizon, where the American Dream awaits. But as you wait, you see people cutting in line ahead of you. Many of these line-cutters are black—beneficiaries of affirmative action or welfare. Some are career-driven women pushing into jobs they never had before. Then you see immigrants, Mexicans, Somalis, the Syrian refugees yet to come. As you wait in this unmoving line, you’re being asked to feel sorry for them all. You have a good heart. But who is deciding who you should feel compassion for? Then you see President Barack Hussein Obama waving the line-cutters forward. He’s on their side.”
OXFORD AMERICAN / The Last Florida Indians Will Now Die by Justin Nobel
“As a child, I learned of certain native tribes and their respective homelands—the Cherokee in the South, the Navajo in the Southwest, the Iroquois in New York State. What I wasn’t taught is that these tribes exist because they were defeated, and in defeat they signed treaties with the U.S. government. As awful as their lot was, these treaty tribes are now recognized by the federal government, meaning at least some money is available for healthcare, housing, and schools. These tribes also have the right to operate casinos. Perhaps most significantly, they have the legal right to exist, a spot in the record. They will be remembered, if only because some bureaucrat has made a mark in a list.”
THIS AMERICAN LIFE / Tell Me I’m Fat and Once More, With Feeling (audio)
Stories on a theme.
THE WASHINGTON POST /  The White Flight of Derek Black by Eli Saslow
“His father, Don Black, had created Stormfront, the Internet’s first and largest white nationalist site, with 300,000 users and counting. His mother, Chloe, had once been married to David Duke, one of the country’s most infamous racial zealots, and Duke had become Derek’s godfather. They had raised Derek at the forefront of the movement, and some white nationalists had begun calling him ‘the heir.’”
THE NEW YORKER / White Plight? by Hua Hsu
“In working-class America, an élite-resenting identity politics has emerged in which whiteness spells dispossession.”
THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE / Choosing a School for My Daughter in a Segregated City by Nikole Hannah-Jones
“I’d be lying if I said I didn’t feel pulled in the way other parents with options feel pulled. I had moments when I couldn’t ignore the nagging fear that in my quest for fairness, I was being unfair to my own daughter. I worried—I worry still—about whether I made the right decision for our little girl. But I knew that I made the just one.”
GQ / My Son, The Prince of Fashion by Michael Chabon
“I took my son to Paris Fashion Week, and all I got was a profound understanding of who he is, what he wants to do with his life, and how it feels to watch a grown man stride down a runway wearing shaggy yellow Muppet pants.”
1843 / Eton and the Making of a Modern Elite by Christopher de Bellaigue
“The world’s most famous school aspires to become an agent of social change; but, as old boy Christopher de Bellaigue learns when he goes back, it is also an increasingly effective way for the global elite to give its offspring an expensive leg up in life.”
AEON / Gender Is Not a Spectrum by Rebecca Reilly-Cooper
“Nobody, and certainly no radical feminist, wants to stop anyone from defining themselves in ways that make sense to them. So if you want to call yourself a genderqueer femme presenting demigirl, you go for it. Express that identity however you like. A problem emerges only when you start making political claims on the basis of that label, demanding that others call themselves cisgender, because you require there to be a bunch of conventional binary cis people for you to define yourself against.”
BUZZFEED / To Love Your Sister Is to Grieve Your Twin by Tomi Obaro
“She is my best friend, but that phrase doesn’t quite do the relationship justice. Our kinship is so binding that there are memories I have of us where I’m not sure if I was actually there or if she was there and I’m just hijacking the recollection. Growing apart, or becoming sisters and not twins, was mostly horrifying, but sometimes it’s a relief. It means my worst fear, her death, can’t devastate me as much as it once could.”
THE PLAYERS’ TRIBUNE / A Guy Like Me by John Scott
“People think enforcers skate out there for two minutes a night, take a few pops and call it a night. What a life, right? But I’ll be honest. You can never shut it off. It’s a 24/7 job. When you know a fight is coming up, you can never shut off your brain. You can be the toughest guy in the NHL, and there’s still that fear. I’d stay up all night on HockeyFights.com and YouTube, researching the tendencies of the next enforcer on the schedule.”
ESPN / The Art of Letting Go by Mina Kimes
“MLB's code is clear: Flip your bat and you'll pay. But in South Korea, flips are an art. How does this alternate world exist? And what does it say about us?”
ELLE / The Afterlife of a Ballerina by Alice Robb
“At age 16, Alexandra Ansanelli was anointed a prodigy. By 22, she was a principal for the New York City Ballet. At 26, she was a principal for the Royal Ballet. By 28, she had given it all up.”
OXFORD AMERICAN / Blood Ties by Alex Mar
“A self-mythologizing takes place when we assimilate the stories of our ancestors into our own—it’s automatic. We tell ourselves that their triumphs have somehow entered our bloodstream.”
SPIEGEL / A Visit to Ground Zero of Refugee Anxiety by Takis Würger
“Clausnitz became shorthand for the xenophobic side of Germany after residents threatened a bus full of refugees. We spent a month in the town to find out what happened.”
THE BUCKLEY CLUB / My Open Letter to Conservatives by Conservative Black Man
“Conservatives need to try to understand why black people feel the way we feel about some of these things. Would it hurt for you to show compassion for a mother who has lost her son to a derelict police officer, rather than pointing out the black on black crime statistics in Chicago? Why is the first reaction to the mentioning of the KKK a pivot to the Black Panthers as if the Black Panthers were ever at the top of that figurative mountain? Have you ever tried to understand what most black people feel when they see the Confederate flag? Have you taken the time to ask any?”
RAND / Assessing the Implications of Allowing Transgender Personnel to Serve Openly
This lengthy report is more dry than everything else recommended here, but is noteworthy as the most careful, logical, informative, fact-based approach I’ve seen on this subject. If you want the research brief instead, it’s here. A short, polished essay is here.
LAPHAM’S QUARTERLY / The Anomaly of Barbarism by John Gray
“While much remains unknown, there is nothing mysterious in the rise of ISIS. It is baffling only for those who believe—despite everything that occurred in the twentieth century—that modernization and civilization are advancing hand in hand. In fact, now as in the past some of the most modern movements are among the most barbaric. But to admit this would mean surrendering the ruling political faith, a decayed form of liberalism without which Western leaders and opinion formers would be disoriented and lost. To accept that liberal societies may not be ‘on the right side of history’ would leave their lives drained of significance, while a stoical response—which is ready to fight while being doubtful of ultimate victory—seems to be beyond their powers. With mounting bewilderment and desperation, they cling to the faith that the normal course of history has somehow been temporarily derailed.”
STANDPOINT MAGAZINE / Islam and the French Republic: From the Banlieues to Le Pen Land by Ben Judah
“A Jew can’t live where he wants anymore. Bit by bit, everyone is moving from the banlieues. As soon as there are ethnic populations, and as soon as it gets, shall we say, problematic, the Jews move. The visible ones — they get constantly attacked.”
THE GUARDIAN / My Night Out in Cleveland With the Worst Men on the Internet by Laurie Penny
“The most widely accepted definition of a troll is a provocateur—someone who says outrageous, extreme or abusive things to elicit a reaction. For them, the reaction itself is the win. The key distinction is between the attention-hustlers—the pure troll howlers who play this grotesque game for its own sake and their own—and the true believers.”
CRACKED / How Half of America Lost Its Fucking Mind by David Wong
“Basic, obvious truths that have gone unquestioned for thousands of years now get laughed at and shouted down. … The foundation upon which America was undeniably built—family, faith, and hard work—had been deemed unfashionable and small-minded. Those snooty elites up in their ivory tower laughed as they kicked away that foundation, and then wrote 10,000-word thinkpieces blaming the builders for the ensuing collapse.”
SLATE STAR CODEX / Book Review: Albion’s Seed by Scott Alexander

THE GUARDIAN / Inside the Fight to Reveal the CIA’s Torture Secrets by Spencer Ackerman
“The Panetta Review saga would spur a furious CIA to take an extraordinary step: it would spy on its own legislative overseers—especially Jones. The episode would spill out publicly the following March, when top committee Democrat Dianne Feinstein, who had already taken a huge political risk in pushing the torture inquiry, accused the CIA on the Senate floor of triggering what she called a constitutional crisis. Both sides requested the justice department pursue a criminal investigation on the other. The bitterness would nearly overshadow a landmark report, a fraction of which was released to the public in December 2014, that documented in chilling detail the depravations CIA inflicted on terrorism suspects after 9/11.”
COSMOPOLITAN / Why Did It Take 9 Hours and 3 Emergency Rooms For This Woman to Get a Rape Kit? By Jillian Keenan
“The complicated, infuriating, little-known reasons why women can be denied emergency care after a sexual assault.”
ROADS & KINGDOMS / The Dog Thief Killings by Calvin Godfrey
“The dog would serve as the centerpiece of a big party attended by former colleagues and war buddies. His wife would spend the better part of a day cooking it up, organs and all; his job was to make sure they got a good one, properly prepared.”
MEDIUM / Chronicles of a Concerned Citizen by Aglaia Berlutti
“A reflection on the wave of lynchings in Venezuela.”
THE INTERCEPT / Operation Smoke and Mirrors by Jamie Kalven  
“Two Chicago police officers uncovered a massive criminal enterprise within the department.”
MOTHER JONES /  My Four Months as a Private Prison Guard by Shane Bauer
“Inmates are glued up against the TV room window, watching a young white cadet named Miss Stirling pick through their stuff. She’s pretty and petite, with long, jet-black hair. The attention makes her uncomfortable; she thinks the inmates are gross. Earlier this week, she said she would refuse to give an inmate CPR and won’t try the cafeteria food because she doesn’t want to ‘eat AIDS.’ The more she is around prisoners, though, the more I notice her grapple with an inner conflict. ‘I don’t want to treat everyone like a criminal because I’ve done things myself,’ she says.”
BUZZFEED / The Court That Rules the World by Chris Hamby
“A parallel legal universe, open only to corporations and largely invisible to everyone else, helps executives convicted of crimes escape punishment.”
REASON / The Truth About the Biggest U.S. Sex Trafficking Story of the Year by Elizabeth Nolan Brown
“The reality—as evidenced by police reports, court documents, online records, and statements from those involved—is far less lurid and depraved. Instead of a story of stark abuse and exploitation, it's a story of immigration, economics, the pull of companionship and connection, the structures and dynamism that drive black markets, and a criminal-justice system all too eager to declare women victims of the choices they make.”
THE NEW YORK TIMES / The Fighter by C.J. Chivers
“The Marine Corps taught Sam Siatta how to shoot. The war in Afghanistan
taught him how to kill. Nobody taught him how to come home.”
DIGG / Broken by Kevin Heldman
“When we talk about hoods and bad neighborhoods, crime zones and ghetto areas in NYC and you then compare them to East New York, all those areas that fit those definitions are nothing like East New York. East New York is sicker, sadder, more dysfunctional, more isolated, harsher, frailer, madder, toxic, broken through and through everywhere.”
PRO PUBLICA and NEW YORK DAILY NEWS / The NYPD IS Kicking People Out of Their Homes, Even If They Haven’t Committed a Crime by Sarah Ryley
“The NYPD Is kicking people out of their homes, even if they haven’t committed a crime. The nuisance abatement law was created in the 1970’s to combat the sex industry in Times Square. Since then, its use has been vastly expanded, commonly targeting apartments and mom-and-pop bodegas even as the city’s crime rate has reached historic lows.”
ESPN / The Hardest Choice Demaryius Thomas’s Mom Will Make by Eli Saslow
“She spent 15 years cut off from America in a 20-by-20-foot concrete cell, and now she has an invitation to the biggest American spectacle of all.”
REASON / Confessions of an Ex-Prosecutor by Ken White
“The day O.J. Simpson was acquitted, I began my career as a federal prosecutor. I was 26—a young 26 at that—on the cusp of extraordinary power over the lives of my fellow citizens. After years of internships with federal and state prosecutors, I knew to expect camaraderie and sense of mission. I didn't expect it to influence how I thought about constitutional rights. But it did.”
SPIKED / The Tyranny of Transparency by Tim Black
“This isn’t a legal problem. It can’t be corrected by frantic invocations of Article 8 of the Human Rights Act. No assertion that ‘Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence’ can magically restore substance to the idea of privacy. That’s because the idea of privacy has not been legally debased; rather, it’s been culturally and politically undermined.”
THIS AMERICAN LIFE, PRO PUBLICA, and THE MARSHALL PROJECT / Anatomy of Doubt by Robyn Semien and An Unbelievable Story of Rape by T. Christian Miller and Ken Armstrong (the print version appeared at the very end of 2015)
“If she met certain conditions for the next year, the charge would be dropped. She would need to get mental health counseling for her lying. She would need to go on supervised probation. She would need to keep straight, breaking no more laws. And she would have to pay $500 to cover the court’s costs.Marie wanted this behind her. She took the deal.”
THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE / The Secrets of the Wave Pilots by Kim Tingley
“For thousands of years, sailors in the Marshall Islands have navigated vast distances of open ocean without instruments. Can science explain their method before it’s lost forever?”
PHILOSOPHY NOW / A Golden Manifesto by Mary Midgley
What a bygone moment of female ascendance in philosophy can teach us about the pursuit of truth.
HARPER’S / What Came Before the Big Bang? by Alan Lightman
“Physicists hope that within the next fifty years or so, string theory or other new theoretical work will provide a good understanding of quantum gravity, including an explanation of how the universe began.”
THE GUARDIAN / Artificial Intelligence: ‘We’re Like Children Playing With a Bomb’ by Tim Adams
“If you look at all the things the world is spending money on, what we are doing is less than a pittance. You go to some random city and you travel from the airport to your hotel. Along the highway you see all these huge buildings for companies you have never heard of. Maybe they are designing a new publicity campaign for a razor blade. You drive past hundreds of these buildings. Any one of those has more resources than the total that humanity is spending on this field. We have half a floor of one building in Oxford, and there are two or three other groups doing what we do. So I think it is OK.”
AEON / The Empty Brain by Robert Epstein
“We don’t store words or the rules that tell us how to manipulate them. We don’t create representations of visual stimuli, store them in a short-term memory buffer, and then transfer the representation into a long-term memory device. We don’t retrieve information or images or words from memory registers. Computers do all of these things, but organisms do not.”
AUDUBON MAGAZINE / Can the Ivory-Billed Woodpecker Be Found in Cuba? by Mac McClelland
“Earlier, the photographer sidled next to the writer and asked, as they both turned their faces away from the merciless beating of the oxen, a patch of protected Cuban forest being deforested with the tearing down of ever-larger branches and trees with which to assault them, ‘Do you ever wonder if this is all worth it? For a bird?’ The two of them snickered darkly. Just moments before, a chunk of wood had cracked off an oxen-beating club as it broke over the animal’s hide and shot past the photographer’s head, missing him by maybe an inch. ‘One that almost definitely doesn’t exist?’”
THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE / The Amateur Cloud Society That (Sort of) Rattled the Scientific Community by Jon Mooallem
“To keep it all from feeling ephemeral or imaginary, he eventually decided that membership should cost $15 and that members would receive a badge and certificate in the mail. He recognized that joining an online Cloud Appreciation Society that only nominally existed might appear ridiculous, but it was important to him that it not feel meaningless.”
THE INTERCEPT / The Dark Side of VR by Janus Kopfstein
“The data that virtually reality headsets can collect will give corporations and governments unprecedented insight and power over our emotions and physical behavior.”
LONGREADS / STAT: My Daughter’s MS Diagnosis and the Question My Doctors Couldn’t Answer by Maria Bustillos
“Is there a dietary treatment for multiple sclerosis? And if so, why is the medical establishment ignoring published academic research that started in the 1950s proving it?”
LOVE + RADIO / Doing the No No by Britt Wray
“Adam Zaretsky is a bioartist who explores the manipulation of DNA, the fringes of genetic modification, and butts up against the ethical boundaries of science and beyond.”
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK / How to Hack an Election by Jordan Robertson, Michael Riley, and Andrew Willis
“Andrés Sepúlveda rigged elections throughout Latin America for almost a decade.”
NAUTILUS / How Necking Shaped the Giraffe by David P. Barash
“As notably long as are giraffe necks, these are actually outclassed by their legs, such that those monumental necks are—believe it or not—too short to comfortably reach a puddle; as a result, a drinking giraffe must splay its front feet wide apart. And, by the way, the same fluid sluice-way control mechanism in its lengthy neck works in reverse when a giraffe is done drinking and eventually raises its high head, allowing only a relative trickle of blood to flow back down so that its brain doesn’t suddenly become hypoxic.”
THE TEXAS TRIBUNE and PRO PUBLICA / Hell and High Water by Neena Satija, Kiah Collier, Al Shaw, and Jeff Larson
“Houston is the fourth-largest city in the country. It’s home to the nation’s largest refining and petrochemical complex, where billions of gallons of oil and dangerous chemicals are stored. And it’s a sitting duck for the next big hurricane. Why isn’t Texas ready?”
WIRED /A Swarm of Controversy by Hannah Nordhaus
“In their struggle for survival against killer mites, bees get an unlikely ally.”
NEW YORK / I Used to Be a Human Being by Andrew Sullivan
“Observe yourself in line for coffee, or driving, or even just going to the bathroom. Visit an airport and see the sea of craned necks and the dead eyes. We have gone from looking up and around to constantly looking down. If an alien had visited just five years ago, then returned today, wouldn’t this be its immediate observation? That this species has developed an extraordinary new habit—and, everywhere you look, lives constantly in its thrall?”
THE BOSTON GLOBE / Where Did ISIS Come From? The Story Starts Here. by Neil Swidey
“An attempt to pinpoint the moment when the American occupation of Iraq failed so catastrophically that it birthed a juggernaut in global terrorism. Paul Bremer is interviewed.”
RADIOLAB / From Tree to Shining Tree
“A forest can feel like a place of great stillness and quiet. But if you dig a little deeper, there’s a hidden world beneath your feet as busy and complicated as a city at rush hour.”
IDLE WORDS / Shuffleboard at McMurdo by Maciej Cegłowski
“The whole thing is like one of those Russian fairy tales, where the hero must cross seven seas and seven mountains, slay Koshchei the Deathless, find the giant oak, exhume an iron chest, open it to find a hare, cut the hare open to find a duck, dig through the duck to find an egg, and crack the egg open to reveal an enchanted golden needle, or in this case, Zippo lighter.”
Honorable mention to writer R. Scott Moxley and editor Gustavo Arellano for OC Weekly’s dogged coverage of misconduct in the Orange County, California, law enforcement community; and to National Review for standing on principles its more populist competitors lacked with its Against Trump issue and related commentary by David French, Kevin Williamson, Charles C.W. Cooke, Jonah Goldberg, and others.


In 1945 in Turin, a solo exhibit of paintings by a young Italian artist was shut down. The works on display were propulsive with energy and psychologically driven: They depicted naked, often flower-crowned, women wagging their red tongues; defecating; copulating with snakes (or, perhaps deploying them as makeshift penises); and confined in psychiatric wards, wearing heels and nothing else. The delicate watercolors, tinged with pinks, greens, and crimsons, were interpretable as subtle stabs at Fascism and at societal responses to “deviant” female behavior. The police closed down the exhibit on opening day.
These paintings were the work of Carol Rama—and many of them no longer exist, either lost or destroyed. The incident of censorship is a footnote of art history but nonetheless marks an important moment for Rama’s career and, by extension, for artists like Cindy Sherman and Kiki Smith who would later be inspired by her. The shut-down would guide Rama’s aesthetic choices—she stopped making figurative pieces for years after, though hints of the human form remained in her abstractions—and would cement her reputation as an artist intensely interested in women as sexual beings, as medical curiosities, and as social symbols.
Anicka Yi’s Strangely Persuasive World of Smells
Rama—who died in 2015 at the age of 97—is getting some much-deserved recognition at the New Museum in New York City, with the most comprehensive exhibit of her work to date in the United States. (Other retrospectives have been staged recently in Venice and Barcelona.) Carol Rama: Antibodies represents an almost dizzying array of ideas, materials, and predilections across the artist’s six decades producing art: She used teeth, claws, burlap, and rubber; attached plastic eyeballs and syringes to canvases; and made paintings of disembodied breasts and testicles. She once crafted a bronze sculpture of a penis nestled inside a lady’s pump—in one fell swoop eliding the superficial distance between two trickily symbiotic symbols and poking some fun at Freud along the way. In all these works, Rama used womanhood as a lens for investigating anything from cultural norms and desire to illness and hysteria.
Of those themes, Rama’s interest in the interplay between health and society seems most enduring and deeply held. Italian asylums would be reformed in the ’60s and ’70s, but at the time that Rama was growing up, they were still clearinghouses for abuse, and for institutional perspectives that punished mental illness. Yet Rama, whose mother was committed to a psychiatric clinic when the artist was a child, saw it as a place of great vibrancy and liberty: Human bodies, to her eyes, assumed all manner of shapes and positions, seemingly with abandon. Or, as she would later say, “Madness is close to everybody.”
The tension between freedom and constraint that the young Rama observed is evident elsewhere in the show, too: On a platform in the middle of one room are a couple of Rama’s “wedding dress” pieces: The garments—black sweater dresses with plush, red organs embroidered onto the chest—simultaneously flout marriage tradition and acknowledge the strange importance of costumes. In another work, a shiny row of human teeth gets repurposed as the spine of a beast perched on a man’s head: an animalistic portrait of the human psyche, joyfully unleashed yet inextricably linked to its corporeal host.
Those works, and many others, show Rama’s media-agnostic and voraciously curious approach to longstanding questions. If her watercolors of the ’40s provoke the most visceral and intimate response, Rama found a subtler sort of expression in the abstract pieces she pursued in the ’50s as she briefly joined up with the Concrete art movement and in the bricolage works of the ’60s that saw her create darkly emotive canvases affixed with animal claws and bits of fur—by turns abstruse and entirely tactile.
Rama’s rubber-based pieces—the gomme works of the ’70s—were in some ways even more subtle and count among her more intellectually interesting explorations. For these austere-looking but thematically complex works, Rama took inspiration from her father’s bike-tire factory, disassembling and flattening bicycle inner tubes to create mixed-media collages. While not figurative, many of these pieces bring to mind organs and veins. Occasionally, Rama molded the rubber, reminiscent of skin or casing, into anthropomorphic curves; at other times, she let the uncut circular tubes hang three-dimensionally from her canvases like protuberant bouquets.
The most stunning of the rubber works are those in her later mucca pazza series, Rama’s artistic response to the cultural fervor elicited by reports of mad cow disease. Intrigued by society’s need to turn the cows into both dangerous pariahs and mystical figures worthy of attention, she made a handful of simple compositions: She cut flesh-hued rubber into shapes reminiscent of udders, breasts, and testicles and placed them in a variety of positions on painted canvases. The symbolism is clear: The paintings, which she saw as “extraordinary self-portraits,” recall the longstanding social and literary archetype of the “mad” woman and embrace the fickle, politicized language of sickness. The series seemed particularly personal for Rama, who once referred to herself as a “premeditated lunatic” who painted “first and foremost to cure myself.”
Rama isn’t the only female artist of her generation to be awarded belated recognition in recent years. Her Italian compatriot Marisa Merz, who was part of the Arte Povera movement, as well as the Cuban geometric-abstractionist painter Carmen Herrera, have also received major retrospectives in the U.S. in the past two years, triggering familiar debates about delayed art-world celebrations of prodigious female talents. Similar conversations occurred in relation to the French sculptor Louise Bourgeois, who didn’t receive her first retrospective until she was in her 70s. For Rama, those early so-called “psychosexual” paintings and her difficult family circumstances—a mom who struggled with mental health, a father who killed himself—mean protofeminist and autobiographical frames have often been imposed on her work. (It seems no coincidence that broader appreciation initially came in 1980, with a reshowing of those original, censored watercolors.)
The artist herself appears to have had little patience for the industry’s late recognition; if few others acknowledged her decades of work, she herself did. Her studio in Turin, where she lived for most of her life, was meticulously arranged with collected objects and works, a suggestion that she cared about self-presentation and, perhaps, about preserving her own oeuvre. When she won the Golden Lion for Lifetime Achievement at the Venice Biennale in 2003, Rama apparently posed the question, with some irritation: Why had it taken so long? She seemed to understand something that the Turin police of the ’40s did not: that, censored or not, her works would have a long and illuminating shelf-life.


The Search for Aaron Rodgers
Mina Kimes | ESPN 
“Rodgers, 33, isn’t studiously bland, like many of his elite brethren, and he isn't evasive either. He’s just ... cautious. Wary of being misunderstood or revealing too much. Over the years, as his celebrity exploded, he closed certain windows, sequestering his private life while he charmed the public with his dry wit and quirky hobbies. (He does crosswords! He likes Wes Anderson films!) He showed us everything and nothing at all. And for a while, that was enough.”
When Gossip Girl Ruled the World
Josh Duboff | Vanity Fair
“If every generation has its one or two shows that prove defining, that essentially everyone seemed to watch as if there were no other choice in the matter, Gossip Girl—which is celebrating the 10th anniversary of its premiere this September—would be that show for anyone who was a teenager or twentysomething (or, in many cases, older than that!) when it first aired.”
Gal Gadot and Stranger Things: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
Elaine Welteroth, Teen Vogue’s Refashionista 
Jazmine Hughes | The New York Times Magazine
“One tenet of the magazine under Welteroth is that a person can be interested in fashion and politics. She already knew how to make a fashion-and-beauty magazine appealing to her readers—and the advertisers who wanted to be inside. But could Elaine Welteroth really lead the #Resistance and make a glossy magazine at the same time?”
The Poetic Work of Trailer Recutters
Patton Oswalt | The New Yorker
“The Trailer Recutters ... have discovered cinematic transcendence through sheer practicality and commerce. These people are very clear about their aim of finding work in the industry—the videos they make are calling cards, audition reels. But in this prosaic pursuit they sometimes kick loose aesthetic revelation. The film whose guts they’re rearranging yields a sleeker, differently breathing animal.”
Mystery Solved: Why Literature’s Greatest Detectives Are All Obsessed With Food
Mackensie Griffin | Eater
“They were not just detectives, but detective gourmands: a detective of stunning intellect who obsesses over food, knows his tastes, and does not compromise them for any reason. … Each of these prolific authors used food—and the access their characters had to it—to illustrate their characters’ high status in society, secured by wealth as well as knowledge.”
Off With Her Head
Yashar Ali | The Cut
“[Kathy] Griffin, who made her career by mocking celebrities, is not the most likely comedian to be martyred over the inalienable right to criticize the president. But in the past couple of years, her act has become more and more political. … In the course of our talks, the theme she returned to most forcefully was the right to provoke with humor.”
Can the Onslaught of TV Reboots and Revivals Survive in 2017?
Rebecca Nicholson | The Guardian
“The most talked-about TV revivals all had a huge impact on culture, but crucially, those impacts were of their moment. … The danger is that if the show changes too much, people will miss its familiarity and its legacy may suffer—but in order to remain relevant, it must adapt to its current context. This is a delicate balance to find.”
Taylor Swift’s ‘Look What You Made Me Do’ Is the First Pure Piece of Trump-Era Pop Art
Mark Harris | Vulture
“If nothing else, ‘Look What You Made Me Do’ finds a new way to commercialize self-exoneration. It’s perfect for a world in which our chief executive’s chief subject of fascination is his own size, his reach, and the way in which he is received. If he ever puts out a record, it will surely be called, like hers, Reputation.”


Don’t Miss
Bran Stark and the Problem of Omniscience—Spencer Kornhaber notices that the Game of Thrones character joins a long line of fictional oracles who are inscrutable, all-knowing, and troublesome to the narrative.
The Business of Creativity
The Podcast Made From Inside Prison—Galen Beebe tells the story of Ear Hustle, an audio series that seeks to highlight the everyday experiences of inmates at San Quentin.
Why Aren’t There More Women Working in Audio?—Joy Lanzendorfer writes that although music production and sound engineering are fields dominated by men, that’s very slowly changing.
What Lena Waithe Wants From Hollywood—Adrienne Green talks to the Emmy-nominated actress and writer about what’s next on Master of None, creating her own show, and forcing the industry to pay attention to new black talent.
Film
Will Hollywood Learn a Lesson About Whitewashing?—David Sims poses the question after the actor Ed Skrein stepped down from playing a character in the Hellboy reboot who was originally written as Asian American.
The Long, Strange Trip of Tulip Fever to Theaters—David Sims notes that the film, based on a Tom Stoppard script and an acclaimed novel, is finally being released after three bizarre years of languishing in post-production.
TV
What Did Game of Thrones Accomplish This Year?—David Sims, Lenika Cruz, and Megan Garver discuss “The Dragon and the Wolf,” the Season 7 finale.
Game of Thrones: About That Hookup—Megan Garber argues that incest in the show is a metaphor for insularity, myopia, and people’s unwillingness to see beyond themselves.
Why Netflix Is Releasing So Many New Shows in 2018?—David Sims observes that the company is ignoring warnings about “Peak TV.”
The Great British Bake Off Keeps the Dream Alive—Sophie Gilbert watches the beloved contest, which returned with new stars but the same ethos after a much-lamented shake-up.
Music
The MTV VMAs Tackle Charlottesville and Suicide—Spencer Kornhaber says the surprising highlights of the ceremony broke out of pop music’s echo chamber.
LCD Soundsystem’s Oddly Inspiring Flip-Flop—Spencer Kornhaber listens to the band’s slow-burning American Dream, which testifies to the power of choosing to start again.
Sports
When McGregor Faced Mayweather—James Parker thinks that, in the end, the much hyped fight played out as it was destined to.
Books
Basket of Deplorables Riffs on Trump’s America—Sophie Gilbert dives into a new collection of short stories by Tom Rachman that consider privacy and cultural bubbles in a post-truth era.



We asked readers to answer our question for the October issue: What crime most changed the course of history? Vote for your favorite response below, and we’ll publish the results of the poll in the next issue.
Create your survey with SurveyMonkey



LCD Soundsystem became one of the most celebrated bands of the 2000s with a seemingly unsexy concept: dance music about getting older. Shuffle along to paranoid ranting about the youths who are hipper than you! Sweat while sobbing about the friends you’ll never see again! Energetically clean your house to the thought that your prime has passed! Bandleader James Murphy’s encyclopedic mastery of underground-rock history and his DJ-honed knack for the joys of rhythm ensured his band’s appeal. Yet the heart of the LCD experience was in his mangy croon: Whether he was reciting an essay or repeating one syllable ad nauseam, it reminded the listener that the song, and everything else, would eventually have to end.
He proved that concept with shocking literalness in 2011 when, at the height of LCD Soundsystem’s popularity, the band played a sold-out “funeral” at Madison Square Garden and quit, supposedly for good. Murphy explained the decision as a response to feeling like LCD Soundsystem was on the cusp of becoming bigger than he wanted it to be, and to his desire to explore other creative outlets. A mere five years later, though, LCD has returned, playing huge festival gigs and now releasing a fourth studio album. The cynical read: They wanted the paycheck. The band’s read: They just wanted to play again.
The Classic-Rock Ecstasy of The War on Drugs
Yet a deeper read of the band’s story emerges while listening to American Dream, LCD Soundsystem’s surprising, slow-burning, and satisfying comeback album. The breakup and resurrection now stands as an object lesson in Murphy’s favorite subject: maintaining vitality over the slog of decades. In some of his riskiest music to date, Murphy insists that life can encompass more than one climax if you want it to—and that the greatest parties come only after you accept your own mortality. “We’re all going to die someday, so you change your mind,” he wrote in a 2016 Facebook comment that foreshadowed the album’s themes. “You get remarried to your ex if you fall back in love. You speak to your parents after vowing to never do so again. Or, you play with your band again."
One listen to American Dream dispels the suspicion that Murphy wants to resume the march to mainstream stardom. The dance-punk elements he previously used for cleanly produced and easily appreciated rave-ups now thump in grimier, more monotonous songs where catharsis is only ever hard-earned. Percussion does, as before, drive the show, but the impression you get from listening is not of precise, software-assisted composition but rather a fleet of players in one echo-y studio, jamming out on bongos and high hats and Roland TR-808s. Choruses are notional, half-remembered things here. Melodies emerge from syllables that first seem atonally barked. The guitar and keyboard tones are as likely to scratch at the listener’s fear reflex as they are at their pleasure center. Daft Punk would not play this material at most houses.

But stick with American Dream and eventually most of these songs reveal themselves as meaty mind-and-body workouts. It’s taken months for the lead single, “Call the Police,” to click into place for me, but it deserves to be ranked as one of the best political-personal-pop anthems of the year. Over dual guitar lines—one like a rumbling engine, the other like skywriting—Murphy tries out a circa-2017 counterculture pose: “There’s a full-blown rebellion but you’re easy to confuse / by triggered kids and fakers and some questionable views.” As the song froths over, the nasty state of the national discourse comes to feel like a rock bottom—somewhere from which to launch. “When we all start arguing the history of the Jews / you got nothing left to lose,” he sings, pronouncing “jews” in a campy yodel of disbelief and abandon.
Another initially perplexing single, “Tonite,” is similarly soulful. Over squelchy electro funk and assisted by a vocoder, Murphy rambles on about how the eternal concerns of pop music—“Everybody’s singing the same song / It goes ‘tonight, tonight, tonight, tonight, tonight, tonight’”—are a tell for the fear of dying. His lyrics are, as always before, made up of impressionistic snippets that feel like inside jokes. But the gist is always in reach. Toward the end of the tune, he turns to address “you who’ve been badgered and taunted and told that you’re missing a party,” before a chorus of condolence surges upward: “That’s … all … lies.” He’s saying there’s more than tonight, tonight, tonight, as it turns out.

As fits the occasion, many of these songs are rooted in the feeling of waking up after a big rager. The slow-dancing title track tells of being filled with revolutionary fervor while on an acid trip and then facing crushing malaise during the comedown. “Other Voices” narrates a solitary morning ritual over a riotous dance floor bustling while a wheezing guitar line traces Murphy’s ragged vocals. Eventually bandmate Nancy Whang breaks in with a crisply enunciated verse: “Who can you trust? And who are your friends?” The feeling of betrayal and suspicion she refers to gets blown up to devastating proportions on the nine-minute disco dirge “How Do You Sleep?,” in which Murphy’s narrator condemns a cocaine-hoofing narcissist from his past.
If these songs don’t always sound energized with new life, they are powerful for the way they reconcile exhaustion with a commitment to moving forward. The track that’s the key to it all—as an explanation for LCD Soundsystem’s return, and really for the universal existential quandaries Murphy likes to chew on—is the skittering Talking Heads homage “Change Yr Mind.” Guitars nervously scratch, an alarm-like cowbell rings and leaves, and Murphy sings of an awful stasis: “I ain’t seen anyone for days / I still have yet to leave the bed.” Post-election blues? Post-breakup blues? Post-youth blues? Any of it fits. But as the whirling rock arrangement settles into something closer to techno’s comforting pulse, Murphy has an epiphany: “If we don’t like where it’s been, it could be over … You can change your mind.” It’s a small, humble stab at inspiration—but one that, given the messenger, you can believe.



"Winter is coming," they warned us, and the seventh season of Game of Thrones might have proved them right. But no one mentioned that winter in Westeros would coincide with so many troubling events in real-world politics. In this episode, Megan Garber, staff writer for The Atlantic, joins Radio Atlantic cohosts Alex Wagner and Matt Thompson for a conversation about lessons from the show, and other recent pop culture.
Two things to note:
Links:
“I Saw His Humanity: 'Reveal' Host On Protecting Right-Wing Protester” (Kelly McEvers, NPR)
Pygmy Girls Initiation Song


Since 2004, Hollywood has been working to adapt the Deborah Moggach novel Tulip Fever, which has long been seen as a major prestige project with Oscar potential. Tom Stoppard, the legendary British playwright, wrote the screenplay for the final iteration of the film. The movie stars three Academy Award winners (Alicia Vikander, Judi Dench, and Christoph Waltz), along with up-and-coming stars like Dane DeHaan and Cara Delevingne. Footage from the film was screened at the Cannes Film Festival ... in May 2015. Now, after untold delays, it’s coming out, packaged as “the year’s sexiest thriller.”
Two years after Tulip Fever was first scheduled for release, audiences will finally be able to see it in theaters. But the film, out Friday, isn’t being screened for critics, and the release strategy is reminiscent of someone being snuck out the back door in hopes of attracting as little attention as possible. It’s a fittingly strange ending to one of the most mysteriously drawn-out productions in recent film memory—but so many questions remain. What happened to Tulip Fever along the way, to transmogrify it from high-end awards contender to a studio’s secret shame? And will the fuss around its delayed release actually help in drawing eyeballs to a movie that might otherwise have been dismissed as a staid costume drama?
It Is Now Possible to Buy Tulips With Bitcoin
Moggach’s book is set in the Netherlands in the 17th century, at the height of “tulip mania,” a phenomenon where the recently introduced flower became the hottest ticket in Europe before the speculative market around it collapsed in 1637 (not unlike so many a dot-com bubble hundreds of years later). DeHaan plays an artist, Jan Van Loos, who falls for married society woman Sophia (Vikander) when he’s contracted to paint her. Together, they invest in the tulip market in an effort to make enough money to escape from the clutches of her domineering husband Cornelis (Waltz).
You’d be forgiven for thinking that doesn’t exactly sound like a box office barn-burner. But the novel was once a hot Hollywood property, optioned by Steven Spielberg and initially planned as a $48 million DreamWorks production in 2004, directed by John Madden (Shakespeare in Love) and starring Jude Law, Keira Knightley (or perhaps Natalie Portman), and Jim Broadbent. The film was in active pre-production, with sets built and some 12,000 tulips planted, when the U.K. government closed a tax loophole and the financing collapsed. Those 12,000 bulbs, Moggach said, were given to her friends and neighbors in London, sprouting everywhere as a reminder of a film that never was.
Moggach isn’t some Hollywood neophyte: She wrote the screenplay for the 2005 Pride and Prejudice and saw her novel These Foolish Things adapted into the film The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel. So there remained interest in Tulip Fever, which was finally resurrected as a film by the mega-producer Harvey Weinstein. Though its budget was lower, at $25 million, Weinstein still assembled a big cast and hired Stoppard to work on the script; many more tulips were planted, and the film was finally committed to celluloid in 2014. That, usually, would have been the end of that.
Tulip Fever was first slotted for a November 2015 release, capitalizing on Vikander’s emergence as a star (she won an Oscar for The Danish Girl, which came out that fall). Then it was moved to July 2016. Then February 2017, seemingly acknowledging that the film had limited awards potential, coupled with rumors that The Weinstein Company, which produced the film, was lacking in funds to mount several major releases every year. Just before its February release, the film was punted again, down to August, and in some strange final indignity, it was shoved to September 1, where it will (reportedly) finally debut in semi-limited release.
Some journalists have attended screenings throughout the years; many more audiences have been subjected to untold test screenings, with Weinstein and the director Justin Chadwick trying out various cuts. But this new edition has been largely kept under wraps. A Writers Guild of America screening was canceled, at the last minute; the horror film Annabelle: Creation was reportedly shown instead. The film’s advertising strategy, such as it is, is suddenly emphasizing that Tulip Fever is a steamy sex thriller, a far cry from the tony Stoppard-penned costume drama it was originally pitched as. Soon, audiences will be able to decide for themselves.
The journey of Tulip Fever is a sort of Hollywood eclipse, an occasional phenomenon that has no wider bearing on the industry but is the kind of unusual, fascinating spectacle that draws in some committed film fans. Something similar happened with David O. Russell’s Nailed, a 2008 comedy starring Jake Gyllenhaal and Jessica Biel that was disowned by its director and eventually released as Accidental Love in 2015, making only a few thousand dollars at the box office. There was also Serena, an epic drama starring Jennifer Lawrence and Bradley Cooper, which took almost two years to make it to theaters and was barely noticed upon release.
But Tulip Fever seems special even by that yardstick. It’s a film that, more likely than not, was never anything more than ordinary—an Oscar player that missed the mark, hardly an unusual phenomenon in any given year. But all this fuss over its mysterious release has turned it into a genuine curio, the kind of potential camp-fest that will be remembered for years simply because of the circumstances of its production. We’ll finally know how good, or bad, Tulip Fever is on Friday. But the real thrill for this one has been in the wait.


“I don’t want life to be hard for you,” a mother, played by Angela Bassett, says to her daughter Denise after learning her child is gay in the Master of None episode, “Thanksgiving.” “It is hard enough being a black woman in this world. Now you want to add something else to that?” Lena Waithe, who plays Denise, read for the role when the character was supposed to be a straight childhood friend to the main character, Dev (Aziz Ansari). Soon after casting Waithe, though, the co-creators Ansari and Alan Yang ditched the character’s background for one based on some of her real-life experiences.
That decision—to have Denise reflect Waithe’s identity as a queer black woman—led to Waithe being asked to co-write “Thanksgiving,” which went on to become one of Master of None’s most praised storylines. Thanks to her work on the episode, Waithe is up for an Emmy Award for comedy writing on September 17; she’s also the first black woman ever to be nominated in the category. Based largely on her own experiences, “Thanksgiving” chronicles Denise’s life over decades of holiday dinners, where she evolves from a tomboyish teenager in the ’90s to a woman coming out to her mother and dealing with familial growing pains as she brings a series of girlfriends home.
The Emmy nomination is just the beginning of what looks to be a busy year for Waithe, who previously worked on shows such as Bones and films such as Dear White People. Following her performance on the second season of Master of None, Waithe is now producing her own drama series on Showtime, The Chi, about a handful of black men on the South Side of Chicago, where she’s from, and developing a pilot about her experience living in Los Angeles in her 20s. She’ll also appear in Steven Spielberg’s film adaptation of Ready Player One, which is set to premiere in March 2018.
With each project, Waithe is solidifying her place among a cast of Hollywood’s new multihyphenates—including Issa Rae, Donald Glover, and Aziz Ansari, to name a few—that juggle writing, acting, directing, and producing responsibilities. For The Atlantic’s series on the business of creativity, I spoke with Waithe about how the industry is shifting, overcoming the stigma associated with black women creatives, and how writing “Thanksgiving” changed her view of storytelling. The interview that follows has been edited for length and clarity.
Adrienne Green: How did you get your start in the entertainment industry?
Lena Waithe: I’ve been obsessed with television since I was 7 years old, and I’ve always been writing on some level. My first official job was an assistant to the showrunners at [UPN’s] Girlfriends. I got the chance to be around all these cool black people making art and that was really big for me. I was writing bad scripts for a while, and luckily those writers would give me feedback. I ended up working for Gina Prince-Bythewood and ultimately worked for Ava DuVernay on [her film] I Will Follow.
Green: Earlier this year at an event honoring Gina Prince-Bythewood you told a hilarious story about being her assistant and being given the task of getting Whoopi Goldberg on the phone without help. What lessons about the business did you learn from that early part in your career?
Waithe: Honestly, [I learned about] decorum and the way specifically black women have to carry themselves in this industry. You can’t be pissed about a note, you can’t be angry about the way that something is happening, you can’t be unhappy about the creative process. When you handle it, you have to be Claire Underwood in House of Cards. In that town, there is still a stigma that goes along with being a woman, particularly a woman of color, where people already want to label you difficult or not easy to work with. It’s happened to me. So we ultimately have to navigate this industry in a different way. We have to sometimes be kind to people who aren’t kind to us, we sometimes have to be polite, even when we’re not in the mood, we have to handle dealing with executives in a different way because otherwise we run the risk of being put in industry jail.
People can say what they want about a person, but if you’re successful and you make them money, then people don’t care. The truth is, I’m always working to get to that place so I don’t have to make myself quieter or make other people feel comfortable in certain instances. I learned a lot of that in watching Mara [Brock Akil], in watching Gina [Prince-Bythewood], in watching Ava [DuVernay] because they really do glide through the industry with a lot of class and grace and dignity, even though they’ve been put through probably a lot more trials and tribulations than their white male counterparts.
Green: Where do you draw the energy to encourage yourself when that gets frustrating?
Waithe: You remind yourself that the reason that you have to behave that way is because people are insecure. Because the truth is, the paradigm is shifting in the industry. They need [black women] now, in a real way. Look at Ava, look at Issa [Rae], myself. Tracy Oliver is now the first black woman to be credited as a writer on a film that made over $100 million for Girls Trip. Make no mistake, the people that own these big corporations and networks are still in charge. But, this is not a coincidence. How many more box-office successes or Golden Globes will it take before people realize, “Oh, the people who aren’t ‘in charge’ have the drop on what the culture is wanting and needing and starving for.”
There’s controversy around certain stories about brown bodies being told by people who aren’t brown, and the world isn’t standing for that [anymore]. So now there’s a really dire need for writers and creators to come on and tell our own stories. I was in D.C. and I was honored to go to the National Museum of African American History and Culture. To be a black person is to come from a long bloodline of survivors and storytellers, with a resilience that people can’t even comprehend. I walked out of there a different person. I stood in front of Emmett Till’s casket. Without telling our stories, we will be forgotten.
I don’t subscribe to that thing that white folks can’t tell our stories. A white person wrote one of my favorite episodes of A Different World, called “Mammy Dearest.” But, what I do believe is that the person that was sitting at the head of the table was a black woman, [the director Debbie Allen,] and they were working together to make sure that story was told in a very dignified way.
Green: What is it like having concentrated creative control now that you’re developing your own show on Showtime?
Waithe: I definitely have been very mindful of what kind of leader and creator I want to be. A lot of that has to with looking at the writers that you work with. They’re all like your children. They all need love, but different versions of it.
Having a singular vision [is important]. There’s a difference between being collaborative and something being done by committee. When everyone falls in line with whatever the vision is you get something really great. You look at [projects by] Jordan Peele, Donald Glover, Michaela Coel, Justin Simien, there’s obviously a single vision. I do think it’s difficult sometimes for the industry to do that because what you’re saying in that instance is, “This person is in charge.” Some people look at that and think, “Oh, I must be inferior if they’re in charge.” No, this person is the sergeant, but you’re all on the same team.
Waithe: Sometimes you can’t always preserve it. Especially if it’s your first show, you have to be really collaborative. I’m still growing my legs as an artist. Maybe on the next thing it will be more exactly my vision, because I will have learned different things about how to assert myself. The Chi is about Chicago, it’s where I’m from, so it’s a part of who I am. But also it’s the first TV show that I’ve ever sold. I’m hopeful that people in Chicago will like it, I hope that people will respond to it. But for me, by the time that I get my third show, there’s no excuse for, “Yeah I’m still trying to figure it out.”
Master of None’s Greatest Strength Is Its Curiosity
Green: Both you and Aziz Ansari have spoken about the fact that he and co-creator Alan Yang wouldn’t proceed with the “Thanksgiving” episode unless you wrote it. How did being consulted like that change your perception of writers rooms where characters of diverse backgrounds aren’t written with input from writers of color?
Waithe: I’ll be honest, writing that episode was the most freeing experience I’ve ever had. It’s the difference in going from being a slave to being free. They didn’t bring in somebody to rewrite me or put it through a filter of somebody that doesn’t look like me to make it more palatable for a broader audience. Our writers’ draft versus the real one is like 98 percent the same. That never happens, but what that says to me is, when it does happen that’s when success comes. Aziz let me lead. He said, this is your story, I can’t tell it the way you can, and you need to do this your way. For me to have that experience was enough, but the reaction to it was icing on the cake.
It’s interesting because [the director] Barry Jenkins said he made Moonlight for an audience of two, him and [his co-writer] Tarell McCraney. I made that episode for an audience of one: myself. This is something that I never thought I would write about, not because I’m ashamed of it but because I was feeling like, “I’m gay, of course I had a coming-out story.” That’s such a part of our narrative [as LGBT people], but I guess people needed that story in my very unique, specific sort of way. And for people to embrace it the way they have, it feels like the world is embracing, not just me, this queer brown girl from the South Side of Chicago, but they’re also embracing my voice. They were like, “We see you, we appreciate you, we love you,” and that was the fuel I needed.
Green: Given the offerings of shows on TV right now, where do you think the conversation about diversity in storytelling is heading?
Waithe: I don’t think there’s ever a time where the industry all of a sudden is going to go, “Ok, we’re going to start letting these black girls tell their stories, purely and unfiltered.” Because you’ve got to understand, [the people in charge] saying, “We’ve got to let them lead,” means that there needs to be a real shift in culture and industry. If they really start to accept the reality of the thing—that we don’t need the notes as much as they think, that we don’t need to be put through a filter, that we don’t need that guy to come and rewrite us—that breaks down the whole infrastructure. They start looking around like, “Well what do y’all need us for?”
There are places like FX and Netflix saying, “We want to be a place where people can see your work.” There needs to be more of a real collaboration. Things become problematic when someone that oversees a show that they don’t really get but they like the idea of it try to make it fit into a box. But when people say, “I don’t get this, but that’s okay and I’ll support you,” that’s when you get magic. Sometimes you fall flat on your face, so I understand the fear. But at the end of the day, when you succeed you make something amazing. I saw Moonlight in the movie theater three times—three times! I want more of that.
Green: You’re the first black woman to be nominated for an Emmy in comedy writing. Do you predict people will receive your work or ideas differently now as you’re pitching new projects?
Waithe: I’m sure. I’m not naive to the business, so I know what [the Emmy nomination] means. I think it puts me in a different position in the industry and gives me little bit more respect. But I’m an artist at the end of the day. People ask how my life has changed, and I got up and had a writing session the day after [getting nominated].
I’ll never not be Lena Waithe, Emmy-nominated writer. But I hope what that [means] is that there was that moment in time where I was my best self, I made something that the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences believes is worthy of a nomination. But, at the same time, I’m still gonna go hard. I would never rest on that. The goal is to surprise people with my writing, to make them think, and laugh, and to make them emotional while watching a character that looks nothing like them or comes from a  completely different walk of life. And if I get nominated in the process that’s fantastic. But ultimately I want to write something that makes people want to go to the movies three times.
Green: What would you say is the most difficult part about achieving this level of success and trying to usher in new voices or hold the door open?
Waithe: It’s not difficult at all. Does it take more effort? Sure. But there’s a multitude of voices that I come across that I love—Marcus Gardley, Justin Hillian, Cathy Kisakye, Dime Davis. I literally just gave you every writer in the writers room of The Chi. That is the difference, saying their names. Just how we say our ancestors’ names, I say their names. I’m going to force the industry to notice them. My hope is that I can continue to introduce executive industry people to amazing black writers so that there’s no shortage of them to choose from. I don’t want to just hire people to make my stuff look good. I want to know what show they have to make and how I can help make it happen. That’s the only way the industry is going to change—from the inside out. It just can’t be about my empire. I want to not just see us run races in separate lanes, I want to see us grab hands and run faster and cross the finish line together.


Last week’s announcement that the actor Ed Skrein had been cast as the supporting character Ben Daimio in an upcoming reboot of the film series Hellboy was, in many ways, unsurprising. Skrein, a white Englishman, is best known for his work in the third season of Game of Thrones and as the villain in Deadpool. That genre cred, it seems, was enough to land him a role playing someone explicitly written as Japanese American in the original Hellboy comics.
Skrein’s casting was hard to justify from even the most cynical angle. Daimio is a supporting role, and Skrein is not the kind of star who guarantees big box-office sales (the usual reason cited for such casting)—and yet the move was another in a long line of “whitewashing” incidents, where white actors are cast in roles originally written for, or obviously intended as, people of color. Studios have done little to address this issue in recent years. But criticism from fans, activists, and Asian American actors made at least one person on the project take notice: Skrein himself, who announced within days that he’d be leaving the movie. “I accepted the role unaware that the character in the original comics was of mixed Asian heritage,” Skrein said. “There has been intense conversation and understandable upset since that announcement, and I must do what I feel is right.”
What Is Matt Damon Doing on Top of The Great Wall?
Beyond Skrein’s quick response to the Hellboy backlash, the detail he went into in his statement was notable. “Representation of ethnic diversity is important, especially to me as I have a mixed heritage family,” he said (Skrein is of Austrian-Jewish and English descent). “It is our responsibility to make moral decisions in difficult times and give voice to inclusivity.” His acceptance of that responsibility as an artist was clear, as was the effectiveness of the pushback from fans that helped him realize it. The creator of the original comics, Mike Mignola, thanked him for his decision, tweeting, “very nicely done.” But the buck shouldn’t stop with Skrein; he shouldn’t have been in this position in the first place.
Lionsgate, the studio behind Hellboy: Rise of the Blood Queen (which will star Stranger Things’s David Harbour), and the film’s producers Larry Gordon and Lloyd Levin said in a statement that the decision to quit was Skrein’s. “Ed came to us and felt very strongly about this. We fully support his unselfish decision,” they said. “It was not our intent to be insensitive to issues of authenticity and ethnicity, and we will look to recast the part with an actor more consistent with the character in the source material.” They haven’t, however, answered the question of why Skrein was chosen to begin with; if anything, his casting came off as a symptom of institutional lethargy in Hollywood around this issue.
There have been plenty of flashpoints over whitewashing in Hollywood’s history. Decades ago, white actors would routinely play characters of color, often sporting offensive makeup; classic films like Breakfast at Tiffany’s or Lawrence of Arabia feature performances from Mickey Rooney and Alec Guinness that are horrifying racial stereotypes. While such blatant failures happen less often, subtler ones are commonplace today, including in movies where white actors play real-life people of color: The Social Network (Max Minghella’s character is Indian in reality), or 21 (where the Asian American card players at the center of the real story were made into white characters in the film).
And then there are obviously clunky moves, like having Emma Stone play an (entirely fictional) character named Allison Ng in Aloha who proudly describes herself as a quarter Hawaiian and a quarter Chinese. For most of Hollywood’s history, audiences might have been generally unaware of off-screen changes, especially if the real-life figures being portrayed were less well known. But modern online activism and the wave of bad publicity that comes with it (which can drive ticket sales down) have begun to spur meaningful change, with one example being Skrein’s prompt response.
The most prominent whitewashing controversy in the immediate lead-up to Skrein’s casting centered on Scarlett Johansson playing Motoko Kusanagi in the live-action remake of the classic Japanese anime Ghost in the Shell. That film tried, through complicated plot mechanics, to explain why Motoko’s brain had been put into the body (or “shell”) of a white woman, a half-hearted measure that ended up enraging fans and confuse casual viewers. (One particularly jarring scene saw Motoko mourning the death of her old body with her Japanese mother, an attempt at heartfelt drama that came too suddenly, and ended too quickly, to feel remotely earned.) The studio, Paramount, blamed the film’s financial failure on the whitewashing debate and bad reviews, which was especially ironic since the industry defense of Johansson’s casting was that she had global box-office appeal.
Even more recently, Adam Wingard’s critically reviled Netflix remake of the Japanese manga Death Note prompted another fan outcry online over its mostly white casting. Remakes are, of course, slightly trickier territory than straight adaptations, but much as with Ghost in the Shell, Doctor Strange, and many other prior examples (like M. Night Shyamalan’s The Last Airbender, the ancient Egyptian epics Exodus and Gods of Egypt, or the Jake Gyllenhaal vehicle Prince of Persia), Death Note retained the specific character names of its source material.
The go-to excuse for Hollywood executives defending questionable casting is that producers want to hire actors who have proven pull at the box office (and who are usually white). It’s an easily dismissed justification, not least because vehicles with white stars fail all the time without hurting the performers’ careers. Many of these parts, like the one Skrein landed, are supporting roles that hardly make or break ticket sales but that could help a new or rising performer of color gain the kind of exposure to eventually be seen as a global draw. Still, Hollywood is not nearly as star-driven as it once was; one of the most successful films of 2017 so far was Get Out, which starred the relative unknown Daniel Kaluuya, while another was Dunkirk, featuring the total unknown Fionn Whitehead.
More importantly, films like Gods of Egypt and Ghost in the Shell have flopped in part because of the negative publicity generated by their casting—a pattern that should worry executives who are genuinely interested in the bottom line. Fan communities, activists, and performers have been speaking out about diversity and representation for many years, and their critiques had a direct impact in Skrein’s case. His decision to stand aside is a rare one and might signal a growing awareness among white actors about what they can do to help address a longstanding issue. Of course, this could also be a blip—one instance where a performer walked away from a paycheck and a studio agreed because the role wasn’t too central to its project. But if (or, likely, when) another misguided casting decision is made, the performer in question should find it harder to ignore both Skrein’s precedent and the bad buzz that will surely follow.


It’s hard to accurately convey how well-loved The Great British Bake Off is in the U.K., just as it’s difficult to explain the appeal of the somewhat eccentric televised baking contest—in which a contestant once fashioned a cake re-creation of his near-death experience—to someone who’s never seen it. When news broke last year that the series had been purchased by a rival network, after airing on the BBC for all of its seven seasons, a fit of something akin to national hysteria broke out. The show’s two hosts, Sue Perkins and Mel Giedroyc, quit in high dudgeon, as did one of the judges, Mary Berry. (The sole remaining star, Paul Hollywood, chose to stay with the show and has been lambasted with snake emojis on social media ever since.)
Suffice to say, when the eighth season debuted on Channel 4 on Tuesday night, and one of the new judges, Sandi Toksvig, jokily referred to Perkins in a fake phone call while “floating” above the set in a hot-air balloon, you half expected the country to furiously spit, “How dare you stand where she stood,” like Harry Potter confronting Snape in the Battle of Hogwarts. But the moment passed, the show got back to business, and soon it was clear that this was no Great Stylistic Shake-up, just the same old beloved format with a few fresh faces, and an extra 15 minutes of advertisements sandwiched in between rounds. Stays could be loosened. Teeth could be unground. A crisis was averted.
#gbbo I liked it. Ads didn’t bother us that much. Out with the old in with the new 👍🏼
After almost a year of catfighting, snubs, and calls to boycott a cultural product so insanely popular that half of the nation’s televisions watched the Season 7 premiere, it was a relatively smooth transition. It’s hard not to imagine Channel 4 executives breathing a colossal sigh of relief, given that the Bake Off poaching was such a PR disaster for the network that its chief creative officer was drafted to repair the damage to its brand. There were concerns that the broadcaster, known for its quirky indie aesthetic, might hipsterize a show that was defiantly un-hip at best, filmed in a tent so big that grannies, Millennials, bankers, and hijab-wearing Muslims could bake cosily side by side. When the first trailer for the new season, a stop-motion animation featuring anthropomorphized baked goods vomiting jam into tarts and puffing up suggestively, was released, some feared the worst.
The Great British Break-Up
And yet the producers, predictably, have kept Bake Off almost exactly the same. To replace Mary Berry, a pastel-clad octogenarian with a nanny-knows-best demeanor and a veritable garden of floral prints, Love Productions drafted Prue Leith, a similarly plummy 77-year-old catering entrepreneur. Beyond a stunning gaffe in the first few minutes when Leith mentioned the dreaded c-word on camera (calories), she fit so smoothly into Berry’s shoes that it was almost uncanny.
The new presenters, Sandi Toksvig and Noel Fielding, were more of a gamble. Toksvig, an Anglo-Danish actor and comedian, felt obviously drafted into the Perkins role, doling out smutty innuendo and wry asides as the contestants fashioned fruity sponges and mini fingers and showstopping cake illusions. Fielding, a comedian and actor best known for the surreal comedy show The Mighty Boosh, was the big wild card in the lineup—a self-professed goth artist who once dated Courtney Love and who’d previously been fired by the BBC after he admitted to taking a pharmacopeia of illegal drugs.
And yet, in the debut episode, Fielding was so restrained he came across almost like Willy Wonka playing it straight to meet his girlfriend’s parents. Beyond the show’s opening setpiece, where he sported a steampunk top hat and flying goggles, Fielding’s typically outrageous wardrobe was limited to a collared shirt printed with birds. There was a lone madcap moment where he pretended to eat a marigold, and a slightly uncomfortable flirtation with a baker who was carving a champagne bottle out of a phallic piece of modeling chocolate, but otherwise, the entertainer who once “shocked” the Daily Mail with a song about erections mostly seemed nervous.
Now, it’s more apparent than ever that the show’s appeal is less in its stars than in its contestants. The casting team reportedly auditioned 150 bakers on camera out of several thousand applicants to get the right mix of amateurs, and Season 8’s instant fan-favorites—the Liverpudlian granny Flo, who crafted a cake to look like a giant watermelon, and the Hackney teenager Liam, who cheekily invited Prue to his house for breakfast—proved how winning the formula is. The Bake Off tent, Charlotte Higgins wrote in The Guardian in 2015, “stands in for a utopian little Britain in which all—the firefighter, the student, the grandmother, the doctor, the nurse, the prison governor, the full-time mother, the musician—exist in harmony.” Britain may be divided by Brexit, and by national politics, and even by the cultural merit of Celebrity Love Island, but #GBBO, as it’s referred to on Twitter, is a great uniter. Popular among men and women, young and old, it keeps what’s left of Britain’s tattered dream of pluralism and equality alive.
So, in this particularly turbulent moment, it’s more needed than ever. The show, Lucy Mangan wrote last night, is “where I want to be when the bombs start falling.” It’s a green and pleasant island in stormy waters. It brings together NHS biochemists and amateur blacksmiths, apples and cinnamon, priapic goths and the founder of the Women’s Equality Party. The news that PruPaul’s Bake Race, as one fan christened the reboot, still retains the power to comfort is welcome indeed, even if it’s less popular than it once was. (Roughly 6.5 million viewers watched the first episode on Channel 4, making it a huge hit for the network but far below the BBC’s average of 10 million.) In the U.S., where the series is known as The Great British Baking Show for copyright reasons, the new season will air on PBS in 2018.


Updated on September 11, 2017
On a hot summer day in Nevada City, California, a group of teenage girls are scattered before a stage in the town’s cultural center. They’re studying an analog soundboard, which is covered with so many knobs and levers that it looks like it belongs in the cockpit of an airplane. Onstage, a band is doing a sound check, which requires lots of drumming, strumming, and saying “check” into a microphone.
“Check is a really annoying word,” the guitar player says. “Yeah, it’s losing all meaning,” the bassist replies.
It’s the last day of the week-long Live Sound Camp for Girls. This afternoon, there will be a show, but the band won’t be the real focus. Rather, the performance will be a chance for 16 girls—and a few boys—to show off the live music-production skills they’ve learned by controlling all the technical aspects of the concert on their own.
The camp’s instructor, Tiffany Hendren, hovers by the soundboard as the teenagers take turns with the headphones. One participant, 17-year-old Mary Vogel, explains the intricacies of micing a drum set to me.  “You’re creating something live right in front of you,” she says of sound engineering. “You’re making it richer. You’re taking out the little buzzes and snaps and things you just don’t want to hear because it takes away from the performance.” Vogel, who has spent two summers at the camp, says she’s considering taking music-production classes in college next year.
Sound Camp, which has events in California as well as St. Louis, Philadelphia, and New York, is part of SoundGirls.org, an organization co-founded by Karrie Keyes, the live-sound engineer for Pearl Jam. Keyes tells me she started the camp to encourage girls and introduce them to potential careers in audio. “It lets them get their hands on the gear before anyone can discourage them or frighten them away,” she says.
Keyes works in a profession that has long been notoriously dominated by men. In 2000, the Audio Engineering Society’s (AES) women in audio committee—which is now, tellingly, defunct—loosely estimated that 5 percent of those working in the field were female. A 2016 survey by AES found 7 percent of its members were women, though that number is incomplete because participants could opt out of reporting their gender. According to Women’s Audio Mission (WAM), a nonprofit that trains women for sound careers, that number is probably lower. With men holding the vast majority of technical jobs in audio, it follows that virtually all the music we hear—on the radio, over headphones, or in a live venue—has been shaped by a man.
Women like Hendren and Keyes spend many years mastering their craft. When she’s not teaching at Sound Camp, Hendren is a full-time sound engineer who works for venues in St. Louis and tours with bands. Hendren got her start by spending five years as a monitor engineer, which means she was in charge of what artists hear on stage. Her venue saw 150 to 175 shows a year, but she says she can count on one hand the number of female sound engineers she met during that time.
“The guys who worked at the venue were great,” Hendren says of The Pageant in St. Louis. “But I always felt like I had to be a little bit better at my job than they were. And then when I started talking to other women, and had that feeling confirmed, it was like, ‘Okay, I’m not imagining this. This really is taking me a lot more effort than it’s taking that guy over there.’” Hendren says she has lost work for being a woman; in one case, she was rejected for a job because the band’s wives were uncomfortable with a woman being on the bus.
Teaching at Sound Camp has been life-changing for Hendren. When she describes the first time she saw the girls run a show without her help, she tears up. “It was so great,” Hendren says. “It was really amazing to feel like I did something for someone that no one was able to do for me.”
* * *
It is important to note that, despite the challenges, women have been producing music for decades. In the 1950s, when Cordell Jackson (nicknamed “the rock-and-roll granny”) couldn’t break into Sun Records, she started her own Memphis-based label, Moon Records, likely making her the first female record producer and engineer in the U.S. Other early women producers include Bonnie Guitar, whose label made hits like The Fleetwoods’s “Come Softly to Me,” and Sylvia Moy, who produced Motown acts and worked with Stevie Wonder. Ellie Greenwich co-wrote and co-produced hits like “Chapel of Love” and “Leader of the Pack.” Sylvia Robinson, known as the “godmother of hip-hop,” started Sugar Hill Records, which put out the seminal track “Rapper’s Delight” in 1979.
Today, prominent female producers include Sylvia Massy, Sally Browder, Leslie Ann Jones, and Kara DioGuardi. There’s the rapper Missy Elliott, who has built a well-regarded career as a producer; Linda Perry from 4 Non Blondes, who has worked with artists like Pink and Christina Aguilera; and Tokimonsta, a classically trained pianist who has worked with Kelly Rowland. Still younger rising stars include WondaGurl, a Canadian beatmaker who has been producing since she was 9 years old and who famously worked with Jay-Z when she was 16.
The impressive individual accomplishments of these women, however, don’t change the overall systemic picture—the fact that list after list from music publications ranking top producers often don’t include a single woman. Billboard’s 2016 Power 100 list only has 14 women on it, with none in the top 10. No woman has won the Grammy for Producer of the Year (Non-Classical). In the award’s 43-year history, there have been only six women nominees for that category: Janet Jackson, Mariah Carey, Paula Cole, Lauryn Hill, Sheryl Crow, and Lauren Christy, who worked with Liz Phair and Hilary Duff.
As the last set of examples suggests, when a woman is lauded for her producing skills, she’s usually also a well-known performer. Men, on the other hand, are more likely to be touted for their musical technical prowess alone, according to several female engineers I spoke with. “It’s always a sexy woman performing ... a sexy woman singing who’s produced by an amazing man behind the glass,” says Leslie Gaston-Bird, the AES vice president for western USA/Canada. “Even Björk had to come out and say, ‘I produce my own stuff. ... I just happened to work with a man.’”
Women in audio deal with unique challenges that come from working within a cross-section of two traditionally male-dominated fields. Because of the technical nature of their jobs, they experience issues similar to those many women in STEM—science, technology, engineering, and math—face, such as struggling for respect and being second-guessed by their peers. On top of that are the added pressures of the competitive and fickle music industry.
Historically, audio engineering has relied on apprenticeships: An established engineer will find a younger person with potential and interest, take him under his wing, and teach him the job. Such mentorships foster loyalty but can also end up shutting women out of the field. “[The apprenticeship model] gives young women a challenge because it’s less likely that an older [male] engineer is going to see himself in a young woman,” says Susan Rogers, a professor at Berklee College of Music who was also the sound engineer on Prince’s Purple Rain. “So it’s another barrier of entry.”
Since training an engineer from scratch is a lot of work, the industry is increasingly turning to colleges to teach audio professionals. Which brings up another possible reason for the lack of female producers: Women don’t take as many music-engineering classes. At Berklee, for example, only 15 to 20 percent of students in engineering classes are women, Rogers says. According to an AES convention paper presented in 2016, male students regularly outnumbered female students 5 to 1 at the Recording Engineers Institute in New York. This year, the University of Colorado’s Recording Arts Program reported seeing 45 female applicants compared to 170 male applicants.*
It’s possible, too, that women aren’t going into audio because they don’t know these careers exist. When Gaston-Bird interviewed women in the industry about their careers, she found that the majority learned about their jobs by accident, by going to shows and talking to people who work with bands. (This awareness problem, to be fair, can apply to men as well.) But this still doesn’t explain why, when women do know about audio engineering, they tend to choose other career paths in music instead.
While there are few studies on the issue, the little data there is suggests this disparity starts young. In 2014, researchers at the University of Colorado, led by Gaston-Bird, asked 36 students (18 male, 18 female) at a Denver secondary school what music-related careers they were interested in. The results were divided along gender lines between technical and nontechnical careers. While both groups wanted to be artists, the girls were also interested in being sound designers, music therapists, songwriters, teachers, and composers. The boys wanted to work in sound design and mixing, electronic-music programming, audio software design, producing, and recording engineering.
Terri Winston, the executive director of WAM, says she believes women don’t go into audio partly because of how young girls are first exposed to technology. When women don’t play with tools or learn to build things as children, they can lack interest or confidence in using those skills as adults. “It’s not just our industry,” Winston tells me. “We have a very serious problem in this country in how we socialize women in technology and in leadership positions in general.”
Winston herself got to dodge this particular roadblock: Her father was a mechanical engineer who encouraged her to tinker with his equipment when she was growing up. At WAM, she tries to foster a similar sense of curiosity by exposing her students to different audio technologies in the “hope something sticks.” So far, it has: In 14 years, WAM has placed more than 400 women in sound-related jobs with companies like Dolby Laboratories, Pixar, Google, and Electronic Arts.
***
Once women secure jobs in audio, they can still grapple with sexist remarks, condescension, and unfair performance standards—as a recent discussion on the AES Facebook page illuminates. “This last 3 years I’ve spent designing and building a recording studio from scratch, and not a day has gone by where I haven’t experienced sexism,” one poster wrote. “I waste so much of my time on proving myself in ways that the men around me are never challenged on,” another said.
Emily Lazar is a mastering engineer who has been nominated for three Grammys and has worked with thousands of musicians, including Sia, David Bowie, and Björk. In an email, she explains that when she was coming up in her field in the ’90s she had few options for dealing with sexism at work. “If you did not just go along with a lot of the behavior, you would at least be excluded from sessions and your position threatened,” Lazar says. “I think the overt behavior has improved as of late. However, the underlying bias is still very much evident.”
Difficulties that women face in other jobs are only amplified in a heavily gender-skewed field like audio. Getting pregnant and having children can come with career-defining consequences. The hours are long and unpredictable, which can take a toll on family life, and there’s a constant pressure to stay relevant: In the competitive music world, even a brief hiatus can open the door for someone else to take your job. “There’s no taking time off and saying, ‘Here’s my replacement,’” says the sound engineer Shani Gandhi, who at 29 has already won a Grammy for Best Folk Album as engineer on Sarah Jarosz’s album Undercurrent. “If you don’t work, you’re not making money.” This lack of stability makes it even more financially risky to have a family. Most audio professionals are self-employed, which means health care comes out-of-pocket, and there are no benefits like paid maternity leave.
Technological changes have eased some of the pressure on this front. As with other fields, women working in audio in the 1970s and ’80s often felt they had to choose between careers and family. According to Rogers, during that period the recording tools were hardware-based, which, combined with expensive studio time, meant everyone involved in making the album had to keep working on-site until it was finished. Now the recording technology is usually on a laptop that can be paused when needed, and studios are often at home, which offers women more flexibility. However, issues like childcare still remain a challenge.
While the music industry has long ignored how few women work in audio, there are glimmers that things may be starting to change, from the newly formed Diversity and Inclusion Committee at AES to the continuing success of WAM to the rapidly growing SoundGirls.org. Trina Shoemaker, who has been a music producer and sound engineer for 23 years, says she’s optimistic about the industry’s future because, compared to when she was coming up, more women are seeking careers in audio. They just don’t have visibility yet, she adds, because it can take so long to become successful—a decade to learn the skills and another decade to master them. “There’s usually a 20- to 25-year period of time when women enter a field before they become proficient, and then the equalization happens,” Shoemaker says. “With audio, women started entering the field in the ’70s and ’80s. Now we’re in the 2010s, and there are quite a lot of women.”
At the SoundGirl’s camp in Nevada City, it’s striking how inspired the girls seem to be by learning audio technologies. Siena Bratt, 17, says working the analog soundboard “makes me feel like a badass.” As a burgeoning musician, she didn’t know before attending the camp how much control the engineer has over how the music sounds when it reaches the audience. “You really have all the power,” Bratt says. “And that’s incredible to me.”
* This article has been updated to reflect more recent data about enrollment in the University of Colorado’s Recording Arts Program.


This post contains spoilers through Season 7, Episode 7 of Game of Thrones.
“None of you were there to see what happened! None of you knows the truth!”
So protested Lord Petyr “Littlefinger” Baelish in Sunday’s Game of Thrones season finale, after his onetime ally Sansa Stark ambushed him with accusations of murder and treason in front of an audience of knights and lords.
“You held a knife to his throat,” cut in Bran Stark, the ever-less-chatty younger brother of Sansa. “You said, ‘I did warn you not to trust me.’”
Bran was referencing an incident from way back in Season 1, when Baelish betrayed Ned Stark, consigning the honorable family patriarch to execution. And Baelish had been right: No one accusing him had witnessed that moment. But when Bran spoke, a look of shock and recognition came over the conniving Baelish’s face. Somehow, this boy could see his past. Moments later, Baelish was consigned to death, his throat cut by Arya Stark, youngest daughter of Ned.
Thrones played Baelish’s comeuppance as the result of an Avengers-like team-up between the three living Stark heirs, demonstrating the extraordinary change they have all undergone over seven seasons. Sansa employed hard-earned wisdom; Arya employed long-honed force; Bran employed expensively gained sight. But step back and it becomes clear that the defining factor here was Bran. Baelish’s deceit, until now, had resulted in a long string of unchallenged wins. He finally met his match not because Sansa the self-described “slow learner” finally caught on, nor because Arya had trained to kill, but because Bran’s magic omniscience unveiled all the hidden things Littlefinger did to the Stark family.
It was two season finales ago that Bran gained the mysterious title of “The Three-Eyed Raven” after a long, strange trial north of the Wall. But it was in this season finale that the full scope and importance of his powers were most significantly displayed. Not only did he dig up the receipts to condemn Littlefinger, he provided a huge revelation for viewers by discovering that Jon Snow, thought to be a bastard of Ned Stark, is actually of royal parentage.
Both developments were a sign that Bran has become an MVP of the Game of Thrones plot engine. His powers are in fact so great that they threaten to break the story—as all-seeing, all-knowing types, whether in comic books or classic novels or religious texts, often threaten to do.
* * *
On some level, storytelling is the act of revealing information. To experience any narrative is to hear a mystery solved, and common plots are often quests for knowledge—how to save the world, the community, the self. So it’s striking that characters with the power to see things they haven’t personally experienced are legion in literary history, whether you look to mythology (Cassandra) or to pop entertainment (Professor Xavier in his Cerebro). Maybe that owes to a fundamental human desire to know the unknown. Maybe it’s also because of the oracle character’s usefulness as a narrative device, an easy way to close plot holes.
Certainly Bran’s powers help clarify the once-vexing question of what role he’s been meant to play all along. After providing the first gasp-worthy twist of Thrones when he was pushed from a tower in the series premiere, he’s rarely been a source of thrills. First, he convalesced; then, he underwent a long journey to the North for hazy supernatural reasons. Lately, after returning to his home of Winterfell and reuniting with his sisters, it seemed he might finally start affecting the larger storyline via clairvoyance. Instead, until the finale he just inspired memes about his stoner-like dialogue, his coldness toward loved ones, and his apparent refusal to use his powers to solve urgent problems.
All of which, in a way, should be very familiar: Bran is a trope. The often-criticized cliché of mystic disability—which explicitly or symbolically implies that bodily difference marks spiritual difference—has long been in full-force with Bran, who first began seeing visions once he lost the ability to walk. But some other common features of shamans, seers, and psychics are increasingly apparent: his cryptic-ness, his distance from those around him, his caginess about when and how to employ his powers. He’s the Yoda of Westeros.
The show explained these personality changes in the awkward farewell between Bran and Meera earlier in Season 7, during which Bran’s longtime companion said, “You died in that cave,” and he professed to not really be Bran Stark anymore. Cut him some slack, Thrones was saying—the ability to see all of the present and past would change you, too. (It’s not a theoretical matter, really. Are you quite the same person you were before Google was at your fingertips?)
But it’s also obvious that his character quirks serve a meta-narrative purpose. An omniscient hero could quickly sap the show of suspense, solving all problems and anticipating all threats with ease. To prevent that, Thrones took away Bran’s relatability as a human. No longer is he necessarily motivated by love of family, a sense of honor, or even self-preservation. Some other, murkier agenda is at work.
What’s more, the show has kept conveniently coy about the mechanics of Bran’s powers. In the finale scene with Samwell Tarly it seemed Bran’s visions had shown him who Jon’s parents were—but had not shown him that Jon’s father had his previous marriage annulled. It was only when Sam mentioned the annulment did Bran have the crucial flashback showing Jon as the rightful Targaryen heir. This suggests there are limits to Bran’s powers, gaps between what he’s able to know and what he has consciously chosen to learn.
Such haziness makes some sense within the story—he’s still getting a handle on his index—but it makes more sense for the integrity of the show: Bran, and hence the viewer, can’t solve every mystery all at once. You could argue that a better way to handle this situation would be for the show to lay out clear rules about how Bran’s sight works so that the audience can better understand what and when he gets to see. But all along, Thrones has shown little patience for explaining the system of magic underlying its world. (This is becoming more of an issue as supernatural forces move closer to the center of the story; see all the confusion about why the undead can’t find a way to kill six guys in the middle of a lake.)
Other oracle-like characters such as Melisandre and Thoros, it should be noted, also have been circumscribed by Thrones. Both serve the capricious Lord of Light, both clearly have limits on their powers, and both have been sent away from the main action at crucial moments (Thoros recently to the grave; Melisandre to Essos for most all of Season 7). The arms-distance treatment of such characters obviously helps the show tell its story, but it also fits with Thrones’s larger themes. Magic is a terrible thing, and the only thing that’s kept it from destroying the world till now has been its scarcity—which troublingly, over the course of the story, has started to become surfeit.
* * *
The “omniscient narrator,” in fiction storytelling, is the person relaying the tale who, it’s clear, knows everything that the characters and the reader might want to know (as opposed to, say, how in the Song of Ice and Fire books the reader experiences each chapter through the lens of a different character). Great omniscient narration can impart the scope and thematic cohesion of a Charles Dickens novel. Poor examples of it leave the reader feeling confused or manipulated for how information was doled out.
The map-spanning title sequence of Thrones winks at the idea of an omniscient narrator, but the series has in large part kept its camera aligned with the eyes of its characters. When we get a flashback, as with Cersei’s prophecy at the start of Season 5, it’s because someone is thinking about their past. But an increasingly widespread criticism of the show is that the uber-narrators—the showrunners—seem more driven by spectacle and business imperatives than by the desire to convincingly impart the feeling of characters experiencing a cause-and-effect universe. Note, for example, how the important action of Season 7’s Winterfell plotline, essentially a conspiracy among the Stark siblings, happened almost entirely off-camera—presumably so as to enable the season-finale reveal.
Bran’s omniscience gives the show’s writers more cover to cut corners. They can spell out the answer to the mystery of a character’s parentage whenever they now want, or they can reveal a villain’s crimes at the maximally dramatic moment, and they can simply say the revelation itself is part of the story thanks to the murky way Bran’s gift works. Fascinatingly, the potential pitfalls of having an omniscient character aren’t far off from the problem that philosophers and theologians have long debated about the notion of an omniscient god. When does a being who can see everything choose to act on its knowledge? Why not all the time?


The first sentence of Basket of Deplorables announces, “You can’t see me right now. Then again, I can’t see you either.” You can take the narrator, Georgina, literally: A recent head injury has left her blind, and adrift at a buzzing election-night party at a Tribeca loft where she feels increasingly alienated from the intellectuals, musicians, and n+1 editors in her social circle. But her statement applies to all five of Tom Rachman’s new stories, released on Audible in the U.S. and in book form in Britain and Australia. Set consciously in the current moment and a few years from now, the darkly satirical tales consider a broader kind of cultural myopia—one that afflicts conservatives and liberals alike.
There’s something inevitable, if not rote, in the first wave of cultural works responding to the Trump presidency. Most seem sprung from outrage or sheer incomprehension: “The nightmare is in high gear,” is how the playwright Tony Kushner described his in-progress play about Donald Trump to The Daily Beast. But even in this early phase, it’s apparent that the 45th president is as difficult a subject as he is irresistible. Neither satire nor fiction can adequately capture him. So writers might be wise to consider him obliquely, as Rachman does: as a presence in the room, not a focal point. Basket of Deplorables is less interested in Trump than in the people and factors that enabled his presidency, and sometimes not even in those. Its point is that Americans’ increasing polarization and suspicion of each other is leading to a place that could make even 2017 seem like halcyon days for humanity by comparison.
Pussy, the First Trump-Era Novel, Is a Brutal Satire
The world of the five stories is an intricate, interconnected one, with many of the various connections and hints only emerging on a second read. The first tale, from which the collection gets its name, is set on November 8, 2016, at a prototypically dazzling Manhattan soiree, where fashion designers mingle with cultural theory professors and Salvadoran waiters serve sumac-spiced appetizers raided from “the pages of Ottolenghi.” Georgina, the narrator, is a former photographer known for her caustic images of rock stars and artists; her good-natured partner, Roger, is a publisher who prides himself on his parties, where Henry Kissinger and Britney Spears might both be proffered as cultural curiosities for the left-leaning “hothouse intellectuals” in attendance.
Rachman’s portrait of how the evening unfolds could seem unsettlingly familiar. At first, the guests chat blithely about other things, safe in their shared knowledge that The New York Times’s website gives Hillary Clinton an 85-percent chance of victory. CNN is on in another room, since cable news is “too excruciatingly IQ-melting.” But as the news ekes out that Trump has won Ohio, then Wisconsin, then Pennsylvania, the mood in the room darkens. There are comments that Bernie Sanders would have won, or that Americans feel left behind, or that a large portion of the nation is simply “godawful.” But the twist in the story’s ending isn’t about Trump at all—it’s a revelation from Georgina that throws both her relationship and her liberal bona fides into question.
It’s a strange and unsatisfactory ending, at least until it’s expanded on a few stories later. Each primary character is revisited at least once, giving readers the sense of a world that’s increasingly claustrophobic and incestuous, where no two individuals can be unconnected. The story “Leakzilla,” set in Portland, imagines a hack of all the major email servers that publishes every private message ever sent. In this new landscape, the only unscathed citizens are the very old, the very young, the very poor, and the extremely paranoid. Amid this massive invasion of privacy, a new dating service has been established, HonrDate, where people commit to going out with each other without revealing their names, so no awkward revelations can be excavated before a first in-person encounter.
The premise is a terrific one, but it’s slightly undermined by the story itself, in which the narrator, Tim, pretends to be a Trump voter to impress his date, whose identity he’s figured out and whose personal emails he’s scoured. The meeting unfolds like a strange pas de deux, where neither seems willing, or able, to be honest about what they really believe. “Don’t you think,” Tim’s date asks, “privacy is actually the right to be different in different situations?” People, she observes, were nicer before the hack, maybe because “a little bit of fake is what’s required to be decent.” But once again, the encounter gains more dimension with a revelation in a later story, “How the End Begins,” in which Tim’s date’s sister stumbles upon a website that lists the future cause of death for all humans on Earth and seems to uncover a horrifying impending event.
Like most good speculative writers, Rachman seems nervous at the path technology is laying out for mankind. It’s a theme in the book that’s largely removed from the subject of Trump: Although the stories casually mention right-wing content farms, and oddballs “ in Kalamazoo or some such place blogging about how the Clintons molest baby pandas,” the more dire threats are bipartisan. After Leakzilla, Tim notes, each time a friend ghosts, you wonder, “Was it something I emailed?” And yet, it’s impossible to isolate the political ascendance of Trump, Rachman appears to argue, from an online climate that has rendered Americans’ worst impulses in more vivid clarity, while making them somehow more blinkered than ever.
The collection’s moral lessons are sometimes so subtle that you might miss them, and the ending of one story in particular is maddeningly opaque. But Rachman’s deft cultural references and his acute skewering of American culture make for uncomfortably precise satire. Sean Hannity pops up, leading a bombastic campaign to free an American arms dealer who fakes his own death; there are references to Alec Baldwin on Saturday Night Live, and “niche-huge” Netflix sitcoms, and the found poetry in auto-filled Google searches. The lone unconvincing voice in the five stories is that of a Wharton MBA grad and a horrendous bully who overuses “terrific” and “fantastic” and brags about how popular he is. Somehow, in fiction, the cadences are just too absurd to be true.


Since first moving into original programming in 2012, Netflix has gone from a fringe curiosity to a major player in film and TV, actually living up to the mantle of “disruptor” that so many tech companies try to claim. But even by that standard, the last few months have been a whirlwind, with Netflix making several of its biggest acquisitions yet: securing a deal with the juggernaut TV producer Shonda Rhimes, luring David Letterman out of retirement, buying Jerry Seinfeld’s Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee series, giving the green light to shows by the Coen brothers and Steven Soderbergh, and optioning an entire comic-book brand (the indie Millarworld, which birthed the cult-favorite film Kick-Ass).
In a recent, wide-ranging interview with Variety, Netflix’s chief content officer Ted Sarandos made it clear the company had no plans to let up: It’s looking to increase its original offerings until they make up half of the service’s entire library, aiming to spend $7 billion on content next year. Reading Sarandos’s comments, it’s clearer that the phrase that’s been used to describe this era of abundant television—“Peak TV”—is only part of the picture. We’re really in an era of Peak Netflix, where the company is launching such an unprecedented volume of new programming that its more traditional rivals have to choose between spending into oblivion or possibly having their shows swamped.
What Netflix Can Offer Shonda Rhimes
Netflix has seen its share of flops in the last couple years. The Naomi Watts-starring drama Gypsy, one of its big 2017 launches, was quickly canceled, as was the comedy Girlboss. Expensive epic TV shows like The Get Down and Sense8 struggled to click with a wide audience and were canceled early. And while other 2017 offerings like Santa Clarita Diet, Friends From College, and Ozark secured renewals, each debuted to mixed reviews and couldn’t quite capture the zeitgeist. The same goes for the company’s original films, which so far have failed to crack the Oscar market.
But for all those misses, Netflix has had plenty of hits, some unsurprising (its stable of Marvel shows), some more so (the teen-suicide drama 13 Reasons Why, the 1980s female wrestling dramedy Glow). Even bigger is Stranger Things, one of the very few TV programs that rivals Game of Thrones as a genuine “water-cooler” hit, cutting through the glut of niche TV. Netflix’s strategy is to get these shows by casting a massive net; risk-taking, in Sarandos’s eyes, is much more appealing than releasing a hit every time.
“Every one of our creative executives has buying power,” Sarandos told Variety, revealing just how drastically his company’s programming model differs from that of a traditional TV network. “They can greenlight a big-budget show in the room without me.” In upending the hermetic pilot process—where networks lock creators into producing a pilot episode of their shows without any guarantee it’ll go to series—Netflix can move much quicker than most and make bigger commitments to brand-name creators like Rhimes. The company spent $5 billion on content in 2016 and $6 billion in 2017, and will up that figure next year.
When the FX Networks chief John Landgraf coined the phrase “Peak TV” in 2015, he was talking to television critics about the explosion in scripted shows in recent years, which grew from about 180 in the early 2000s to 455 in 2016. “[The business] is in the late stages of a bubble. We’re seeing a desperate scrum. ... There is simply too much television,” Landgraf told the press. Since then, the number of scripted shows has plateaued in the world of basic and premium cable, but streaming networks are continuing to increase production.
To Landgraf, “Peak TV” was a dire warning. To Sarandos, it’s a marketing tactic, a way to keep Netflix at the forefront in a rapidly changing industry. When companies like HBO and FX broke into original TV in the early 2000s, they did so by making sure every new show was an event, after years of development. With its ambitious 2018 release schedule, Netflix is moving much more quickly. Sarandos’s biggest fear is not the amount of money he’s spending, but that Netflix will be a victim of its own success. “The more successful we get, the more anxious I get about the willingness of the networks to license their stuff to us,” he told Variety, acknowledging that the company still needs a base of older, licensed material to keep subscribers on board.
The company’s tactics have been far less popular in the film world, where some creators (like Christopher Nolan) regard Netflix as an enemy of the theater experience. Sarandos is unabashed about his desire to change the movie-release model. “I don’t think we compete with Amazon in the movie space at all,” he said, referring to Amazon’s habit of giving films wide releases, then hosting them exclusively online many months later. “I frankly don’t understand their strategy. I don’t understand why perpetuating a model that feels more and more disconnected with the population is good.”
That’s what’s impressive (or terrifying, depending on who you work for) about Sarandos’s future plans. Within five years, television has changed from the prescribed September-to-May schedule that has existed since the birth of the medium to a never-ending blitz of new shows that networks struggle to keep up with. And even though Netflix hasn’t toppled the similarly staid film calendar as quickly, it could mark the beginning of the end for movie theaters, if the company’s success so far with TV is anything to go by.


This post contains spoilers through Season 7, Episode 7 of Game of Thrones.
“Out of all the people in Thrones, Jon, of all people, is probably the least up for incest,” Kit Harington told Entertainment Tonight last month. “But we don’t know whether they’re related.”
The actor was talking about the romantic tension between his character, Jon Snow, and Daenerys Targaryen—a tension that Game of Thrones, sometimes gracefully and sometimes awkwardly, has been meticulously building over the course of its seventh season. It’s been a tension complicated by the fact that while, as Harrington suggested, viewers didn’t know for sure whether the two were related … we have also been preeeeetty sure that the two are related. Sunday’s episode, “The Dragon and the Wolf,” confirmed it: Jon is not, in fact, the illegitimate son of Ned Stark; he is in fact the legitimate son of Ned’s sister, Lyanna, and her husband Rhaegar Targaryen. Who was also the older brother of one Daenerys Targaryen. Which would, yep, make Jon Snow, né Aegon Targaryen … Dany’s nephew. Which would make the consummation of their attraction, as one of the final scenes of the season … extremely complicated.
What Did Game of Thrones Accomplish This Year?
Game of Thrones is a show that has depicted slaughtered children, and sexual violence, and martial violence, and torture both psychological and physical; it is a show that, often, looks at conventional notions of morality and scoffs at their quaintness. Incest in some ways is no different: It’s a taboo that Thrones has generally regards with a mixture of horror and shoulder-shrugging acceptance. Dany herself is the product of incest—her parents were brother and sister—as were Joffrey, Myrcella, Tommen, and Cersei’s (alleged) unborn child. Cersei and Jaime represent one of the longest-standing romantic partnerships of the series. Gilly is both the mother and the half-sister of baby Sam. Yara Greyjoy, having not seen Theon since they were children, initially flirted with him—an elaborate prank meant primarily to remind her brother of his diminished power on the Iron Islands.
Incest lurks everywhere in this world. And while it is sometimes treated as a moral failing (Cersei and Jaime, together, have never been paragons of anything save for savvy accessorizing), it is also, often, treated as a political one. Incest, in Thrones, is a situation that is also a metaphor—for what happens when people get too insular, too myopic, too unwilling to see beyond themselves. It is the Westermarck effect, gone terribly wrong. It is a warning about what can befall the world when narcissism gets politically weaponized.
Dany and her nephew Jon come from a long line of people who, having “the blood of the dragon,” were reluctant to marry outside that line, thus diluting the blood in question. That’s one of the many ways Game of Thrones’s history parallels the real world’s: Incest, of course, was once common, particularly among nobility. It is thought that King Tut suffered from an array of physical maladies brought on by at least two successive generations’ worth of interfamilial marriages. Charles II, the last of the Spanish Habsburgs, suffered from disabilities that came from 16 generations of inbreeding. Charles Darwin married his first cousin; his work on inbred plants led him to fear that the couple’s children, seven of whom survived into adulthood, would suffer the ill effects of the familial connection.
Historically, then, in the known world and beyond its continents, incest has given rise to a sweeping bit of hubris: People’s attempt to preserve their blood lines ended up, often, compromising them. The practice that took its name from the Latin incestus (“unchaste, impure”) ended up proving itself all too literally.
Whether Dany and Jon will have children—children who might in their own way fall victim to this sad irony—is an open question. For now, their union has made for one of Game of Thrones’s more twisted plot twists. As Alan Taylor, the director of several of the show’s episodes, including last week’s “Beyond the Wall,” told The Daily Beast: “There’s no secret that this is where this is going. Readers of the book have known that things were heading towards this destination for a while. Even the characters in this story know it’s heading in this direction.” Some fans cheered the movement of “Jonerys” from the realm of fanfic and into the realm of, simply, fic. Others gagged at it. Others were simply confused by it. (So much so that Newsweek, in a nod to the inevitable, recently enlisted the help of a psychosexual therapist to reassure fans that “there’s nothing wrong with you for wanting to see aunt and uncle get it on.”)
The reactions have been as mixed as they are in part for the simple reason that Jon and Dany are not Jaime and Cersei. They are good people, fundamentally. They grew up separately, in different places and different worlds. And, of course: They do not currently know that they are related. There are Luke-and-Leia vibes to the courtship between the last of the Targaryens; they are protected, in some sense, by their ignorance. And their relationship, as such, seems primed to provoke, rather than outrage or disgust, something simpler: questions—about intimacy, and its expanses, and its limits.
That puts the relationship between Dany and Jon in league with other such relationships in literature—which are often calibrated to be scandalous, yes, but which are just as often calibrated simply to be complicated. They may provoke judgment; they also, however, often demand sympathy. Chris and Cathy, in Flowers in the Attic, are victims of abuse at the hands of an evil grandmother. Emmeline and Richard in The Blue Lagoon are victims of a shipwreck and its attendant isolation. Little Charles and Ivy in August: Osage County are the victims of ignorance: They sort of understand their relationship to each other. And also they very much do not understand their relationship to each other.
Some literary portrayals treat incest as a profound—perhaps the profound—violation of the order of things: In One Hundred Years of Solitude, the members of the Buendía family live in constant fear that the results of their intermarriages will come to haunt them (in this case, via children born with the tails of pigs). In John Irving’s The Hotel New Hampshire, John and Franny’s intimacy gives way to an incestuous encounter. In James Ellroy’s White Jazz, the protagonist David Klein harbors an incestuous attraction to his sister. In Jeffrey Eugenides’s Middlesex, the narrator’s grandparents were siblings. There is often a cyclical inevitability to these stories: a sense of mistakes made in one generation, transmitted to another. A sense of destabilization at the most fundamental levels. A sense of doom. In the Harry Potter series, Voldemort is descended from a family in which cousins regularly marry.
But other portrayals—in American pop culture, in particular—use relationships between siblings and pseudo-siblings as vehicles through which to examine anxieties: about intimacy, about otherness, about the state of the modern family. Maeby and George-Michael in Arrested Development. Cher and Josh in Clueless. Margot and Richie in The Royal Tenenbaums. Kathryn and Sebastian in Cruel Intentions. Dexter and Debra in Dexter. Even Greg and Marcia Brady in A Very Brady Sequel—an on-screen coupling that poked fun at the very real fling between Maureen McCormick (Marcia) and Barry Williams (Greg).
The treatments of incest here range from the tragic to the taunting; what they have in common, though, is the same thing that makes the shipping of Dany and Jon so uniquely bizarre and, from a literary perspective, compelling: They blur lines. They occasionally poke fun. They often poke holes. They suggest, overall, a world that is much more complicated than it might initially seem to be.
In Thrones’s case, as the show moves into its final season, it has managed to set up conditions in which Dany and Jon are complicated in part by the fact that they are at once people and allegories: They are both lovers and rivals, both new acquaintances and lifelong relatives. They suggest order in the world and, now, the threats against it. “The Dragon and the Wolf” is a paradox, because the dragon and the wolf, it turns out, are one and the same. In one way, definitely, the couple’s newfound intimacy puts the “ewwwww” in “newfound”; it is the rough equivalent of the horror-movie character who, not being privy to the full picture, decides to open that door. More than that, though, their romance is a slow-moving tragedy. Because, in Thrones’s final season, Dany and Jon will very probably learn the truth. They will very likely suffer—through no fault of their own, but because of the failings of their fathers. They, the next generation of Targaryens, will be punished for the attitudes of those who carried the blood of the dragon and decided, despite it all, to keep it in the family.


In pop, as in other arenas, conflict is the quickest way to cause conversation, as MTV’s Video Music Awards well know. At Sunday night’s ceremony, Taylor Swift didn’t show up for a confrontation with Katy Perry like she’d been suspected to, but she did premiere a sour, super-meta music video about the small scandals of her career. Remy Ma, the rapper who’s let the latest phase of her public career be dominated by a war of words with Nicki Minaj, took the couple seconds of screen time she got to, once again, mention Minaj. The girl group Fifth Harmony opened their performance by having a body double fall off stage: a symbolic middle finger to Camila Cabello, who left the band last year.
These moments were lowlights (though, okay, it was hard not to laugh at the Fifth Harmony thing). Not only did they show a generation of stars simply recycling their own fame rather than coming up with fresh sources of inspiration, they displayed pettiness that feels extra cynical given the difficult national moment. The more memorable developments of the VMAs connected to issues outside of the room and offered surprising uplift. While it’s true that pop music has traded in easy empowerment and obvious sloganeering for a while now, a few figures last night found ways to speak on the issues of the day with new urgency.
Who Killed Taylor Swift?
Pink, the perennially under-hyped hitmaker of the 2000s, accepted MTV’s Video Vanguard Award with an impressive medley that featured a levitating car and some shockingly poignant dance. But it was her acceptance speech that’ll endure. She told a story about her 6-year-old daughter feeling “ugly” for looking “like a boy,” and Pink—butch icon that she is—replying by pointing to David Bowie, Prince, Janis Joplin, Annie Lennox, and others as examples of fabulous famous androgyny. The speech landed because of the way that it lifted from her own life to lightly comment on larger current issues about nonconformity, sexism, and acceptance. Less subtle: the ribbon she wore that read, “Fump Truck!”

Even more blunt-force messaging came from the rising rapper Logic, who made an undeniably powerful statement against suicide. His track “1-800-273-8255” shouts out the national crisis hotline, and last night he delivered it with featured vocalists Khalid and Alessia Cara while surrounded by survivors of suicide attempts and people who’d lost loved ones to suicide. Statistics show self-harm to be on the rise among young people, and cultural obsessions such as 13 Reasons Why and the recent deaths of the rockers Chester Bennington and Chris Cornell have kept the issue front of mind (Jared Leto memorialized both musicians in a speech last night). Some of the participants were in tears throughout the performance; plenty of viewers surely were too.

A remarkable portion late in the show turned almost fully from pop to politics to address the fallout from the violence in Charlottesville. Reverend Robert Lee IV, a descendent of the Confederate general Robert E. Lee, took to the stage saying, “We have made my ancestor an idol of white supremacy, racism, and hate. As a pastor, it is my moral duty to speak out against racism, America’s original sin.” He then introduced Susan Bro, the mother of Heather Heyer, the woman killed by the car attack in Charlottesville. Speaking at surprising length and with significant composure, she announced the formation of a scholarship foundation in her daughter’s name and praised the winner of the VMA for Best Fight Against the System—a category for videos with a social message.

Elsewhere, performers broke through the slog of the night with memorable creative concepts: Lorde refrained from singing her song “Homemade Dynamite” to instead give a charming-weird interpretive dance; Kendrick Lamar opened the show flanked by ninja warriors climbing a flaming trellis; Alessia Cara changed from a glamorous gown to plain black comfywear while performing her body-positivity anthem “Scars to Your Beautiful”; Miley Cyrus played Elvis impersonator with a group of geriatric dancers.
Uncomfortably overseeing all of this was the host Katy Perry, feigning a doofus, semi-woke persona throughout the night. Her shtick was that she’d supposedly been in outer space for a while and had missed all the news headlines of the past year: a set-up for some very mild jokes about Donald Trump’s Twitter feed and the already-forgotten PR catastrophe that was the Fyre Festival. The truth was the audience didn’t need such winking, cutesy, tentative stabs at connecting with the wider world. The highlights of the night plenty demonstrated the power of speaking frankly about what’s happening back on Earth.


Every week for the seventh season of Game of Thrones, three Atlantic staffers have been discussing new episodes of the HBO drama. Because no screeners were made available to critics in advance this year, we’ll be posting our thoughts in installments.
David Sims: In the end, I was tricked by the shorter season length, the extra-long wait for the show to come back, and the extended running times of the episodes. I forgot that this season of Game of Thrones was the penultimate one, a mere table-setter for the real war to come … next year. That isn’t to say the Season 7 finale wasn’t full of big plot turns—it absolutely was. Jon and Daenerys formally sealed their alliance, both militarily and romantically, just as Bran decided to spill the beans about Jon’s true parentage. Jaime finally turned his back on his sister, just as she fomented a drastic battle plan for survival. Littlefinger got his comeuppance, once and for all. And the Wall finally came down, after several thousand years of doing its job (that is to say, not falling down).
And yet, after all this chaos, after the burning of the loot trains, the loss of a dragon, and so much more death and destruction, it somehow doesn’t feel like that much has changed since the end of last season (when the truth about Jon’s birth was first confirmed). Daenerys is still waiting offshore, trying to decide how she wants to conquer. The Night’s King and his army of the dead are still approaching, having finally (after seven seasons!) made it to the top of Westeros. Cersei is still stewing at King’s Landing, plotting to rule a continent simply for power’s sake. And Jon is still as stubbornly noble as ever, resolute in his mission to stop the White Walkers but only by the most honorable means possible.
Is Game of Thrones on Thin Ice?
Put shortly, I confess to feeling a little cheated by this extra-long season finale of Game of Thrones, even though I was broadly satisfied with its biggest story decisions. It was especially strange that the first half of the action existed only as a sort of long con, with the second half basically refuting everything that had come before. No, Euron didn’t really flee to the Iron Islands with his tail between his legs. No, Cersei won’t really be allying with Daenerys. No, Sansa hasn’t actually been won over by Littlefinger’s plotting. No, David Benioff and D.B. Weiss haven’t totally thrown the internal logic of their characters out the window.
But then why did we have to suffer through that drawn-out negotiation scene, in which it took 25 minutes of screen time before the Hound revealed the contents of their lockbox (a screaming wight), and another 20 minutes more before Cersei falsely claimed that she would ally with the hated Daenerys to conquer the northern threat? There were some nice character reunions—like Tyrion and Pod—and some more frightening ones—the Hound and the Mountain, whose enmity remains unresolved—but apart from that, it was a whole lotta talk and no action.
The idea, I think, is to underline what a masterful game-player Cersei has become, tricking even her conniving brother Tyrion into thinking that she’s developed a sense of altruism because of her unborn child. No, instead Cersei’s brilliant scheme is to do nothing while Jon and Daenerys try to deal with the zombies themselves. If Cersei is so clever, though, I wish her ultimate goal were a little harder to poke holes in, as Jaime does pretty effortlessly, pointing out that whoever wins the northern battle will more than likely overwhelm Cersei’s seriously depleted forces (which now consist of Euron the madman, the mercenary Golden Company, and whatever Lannister and Tyrell bannermen haven’t been cooked alive by dragonfire).
Cersei is about as smart as Jon, who this season has cost Daenerys a dragon in service of the silliest recon mission ever and in return won her exactly zero more troops to fight the White Walkers with. His pivotal moment this episode, refusing to pledge neutrality in the coming war, was classic Jon—chivalrous but not very political, and his next move—bedding Daenerys before a legal marriage—was even dumber, and that’s before Bran’s casual revelation (to Sam of all people) that Jon’s real name is Aegon Targaryen, and he’s Daenerys’s nephew.
As a longtime fan of the books, I can’t deny feeling a certain delighted tingle on hearing Lyanna Stark whisper the name Aegon or on watching her marriage to Daenerys’s brother Rhaegar. These are things book readers have speculated on for so many years, and they’re among the few plot twists I can safely assume will end up in George R. R. Martin’s last books, if he ever does write them. As a fan of the show, it felt a little too cutesy—with Jon and Daenerys’s union, in particular, feeling rushed toward an obvious conclusion, ever so slightly unearned (though maybe I’m just holding Jon responsible over the death of the dragon, which Daenerys isn’t).
That was Season 7 of Game of Thrones in a nutshell: a weird combination of its story feeling both sped up and stalled out, with Benioff and Weiss giving the viewers bombastic set-pieces in between countless scenes with maddeningly circular dialogue. We’re finally ready for the end times, but I’ve been ready ever since Daenerys took her troops across the Narrow Sea. In the end, this was the season of the White Walkers, the show’s most visually striking, but narratively inert villains, marching ever closer to an inevitable conclusion. That’s what we’ve done this year. I can only hope Season 8 offers something more human—and more surprising.
Lenika Cruz: I’m really sad to say that “The Dragon and the Wolf” ranks somewhere near the bottom of Thrones episodes for me, and certainly at the bottom of Thrones finales. While “The Dragon and the Wolf” had some really big, powerful moments—Littlefinger falling off the ladder of chaos and into a pool of his own blood, Jaime walking away from a livid Cersei, the flashback to Rhaegar and Lyanna’s marriage, the Wall coming down, Daenerys arriving in King’s Landing with her dragons, Jon Not-Sand and Dany doing what Targaryens do best—it was frustrating to see them delivered in an episode rife with loose ends, characters making gallingly dumb choices, bad dialogue, and lazy storytelling.
Some would argue these problems have plagued Thrones all season, if not for longer—especially since Benioff and Weiss have been trying to make do with the rough outline Martin gave them for the series’s end. And we could debate the extent to which these issues have seriously hurt the show (from a narrative, not ratings, angle, of course). In general, if I’m enjoying myself during an episode, I tend not to fixate on the imperfections. But for the first time, I am seriously questioning the strength of the foundation Thrones sits upon. Not everything worked for me this season, but a lot of it did, up until last week’s “Beyond the Wall.” At the time, I went a bit easier on the episode than David and Spencer did. Yes, the kidnap-a-wight plan was absurd, and the speed with which a team of supposedly scrupulous people agreed to it bewildering, but it had the possibility to be cool in execution. Rewatches soured me on the episode even more, leading me to wonder if watching the seams come apart with “Beyond the Wall” destroyed my suspension of disbelief going into the finale.
As you smartly pointed out, David, the first half of the episode consisted of major characters making questionable decisions that were later revealed, with less of an “A-ha!” than maybe hoped, to be masks for other, more reasonable, decisions. The Dragonpit summit struck me as something that should have been compelling in theory (all these major characters in the same place at the same time!), but it nonetheless left me deflated thanks both to the minimal build-up and the unbelievable neatness of it all. The show tried to telegraph its awareness of how awkward and futile-seeming the whole exchange was (“We are a group of people who do not like one another,” Tyrion helpfully acknowledged), but those efforts rang false, much like the previous episode’s attempts to comment on its foolish-hero storyline. Still, one of the best Dragonpit moments was the brutal, near-scientific, presentation of the wight-in-the-box: It was more effective and frightening than I thought it would be, prompting even Cersei’s stoic mug to express actual fear.
I tried to stay on board, but then came Jon’s horribly timed display of Starkian chivalry, which we were supposed to believe was enough to make Cersei forget how terrified she was just two seconds ago about an army of zombies. It made no sense to me why Dany wouldn’t have briefed her Hand on the fact that Jon had bent the knee for her—something she should have done especially before heading into negotiations with a rival. The situation reminded me of Jon and Sansa conveniently not getting on the same page about Winterfell matters in private, seemingly as a way to engineer scenes of tension with the northern lords. In the end, Jon agreeing to extend the truce wouldn’t have made a difference; either way, Cersei would have been playing them. But his decision struck me as a superficial ploy—to derail talks and create an excuse for Tyrion to meet with Cersei alone. (Much like the wight mission seemed like a not-so-subtle one to give the White Walkers their ice dragon.)
If, as you noted, David, this episode did a poor job of rationalizing Cersei’s duplicity, it did at least make clear that this woman who so fetishizes the notion of family has virtually no family left. My sense is that she’s all but certainly lying about her pregnancy: With no real, living children left for her to protect, she’s now using a fake, phantom child to protect her—a twisted, but on-brand, bit of manipulation for Cersei. And while she couldn’t quite bring herself to murder her brothers (each called her bluff), she’ll also go into early next season without their trust. The way things ended between her and Jaime, I can finally see a path clearing for him to become a Queenslayer (something I really thought would happen this year, but oh well).
As for Sansa and Arya in the north—the reveal that they were working together all along against Littlefinger was the only payoff that would have been satisfying given the rampant confusion that thread stirred. Nearly everyone I talked to about last week had very different, shaky interpretations of the “rivalry,” but in a post-show interview the creators suggested Thrones had tricked fans into thinking Arya and Sansa might really try to murder each other. (The show did not.) Seeing Littlefinger meet his end after a season of irrelevance—and finally seeing the Stark girls behave like we’d expect and hope them to—was a relief. It was nice, too, to see Bran finally make his visions useful (That’s So Three-Eyed Raven), although he was far too late in the case of Jon and Dany, who engaged in an act whose name, if it exists, is less punny than “twincest.”
I could spend a while complaining about the dialogue (Bronn and Jaime’s interminable conversation about cocks; Brienne’s uncharacteristic “Fuck loyalty!”; Sansa telling Arya, “You’re still very strange and annoying”; everyone robotically repeating some variation of “We’re fucked”) and the loose ends (How’s Grey Worm doing? Are we to assume that Theon doing some good punching constitutes a redemption arc?) But mostly, I just want to be way more excited for Season 8 than “The Dragon and the Wolf” left me. I can’t help but compare this finale to Season 6’s “The Winds of Winter,” which managed to be terrific even though the creators were out of source material. I don’t want to think the show is doomed to be a less-good version of itself without Martin’s books as a guide, though it might well be. But for all my frustration, not even the Night King (who, let’s be honest, looked like a huge dork sitting on Ice Viserion) or a good look at Ser Gregor’s face could scare me away from watching six more episodes and seeing Thrones through to the end.
Megan Garber: Given some of the events of “The Dragon and the Wolf,” and given how down you guys are on this episode, I should maybe say at the outset: I’m totally not kidding. I really liked this episode! No Cersei-ing, promise! The episode left me riveted. It left me feeling more confident that this story might actually be going somewhere good as it heads toward its conclusion. It struck me as satisfying both in the ends it tied up and in the new ones it unfurled.
Partially, okay, yes, that may be because of one very particular thing this hour-and-a-half of television accomplished, which is that “The Dragon and the Wolf”—too late, but finally—rid the world of Petyr Baelish. (And while we’re gathered, let us all hope together that those savvy Winterfellians burned his body, because I can take a lot from this show, but I definitely cannot take an ice-zombified Littlefinger.) I agree, Lenika, his demise was a relief: Old “chaos is a ladder” finally reached the point beyond which he could climb no more, and now his watch is ended, and while what is dead may never die … I really, really hope he is dead for good.
But the de-Baelishization of Westeros isn’t the only reason I’m on Team Dragonwolf. I also appreciated, overall, all the fake-outery afoot in this episode. This season has been, on top of everything else, a really fascinating (I think) meditation on the dynamics of belief, and trust, and faith—when it comes to existential threats, and when it comes to geopolitical strategy, and also when it comes to other people. The whole Wight-in-the-Box storyline was definitely absurd at points—last week, for one of them—but it also existed as an acknowledgement of what it takes to make people believe: For Cersei to trust in the particular kind of magic the Night King represents, she’d need to see it first-hand. She’d need to be terrified by it, in person. She’d need to be threatened, first-hand.
And, so, Daenerys and her group, like some masterful product-pitchers on Shark Tank, created a presentation, complete at the end with a flaming zombie-hand, that was dramatic and compelling and basically presented itself. Cersei, of course, should have totally invested.
To me, though, it was also fitting that the Season 7 finale would complicate those broader ideas by getting the show back to one of its oldest and most reliable themes: good, old-fashioned lies. The simplistic strain of dishonesty that got Ned Stark killed after Joffrey went back on his word, and that led to the Red Wedding, and that was so much a part of the show before it got much more complicated in its considerations. “Some day you’ll sit on the throne and the truth will be what you make it,” Cersei told Joffrey back in Season 1. She is now living the predicate of that prediction—only Cersei is the one engaged in the truth-making. She’s the one destabilizing the world by refusing to operate according to the most basic kind of honor there is: honesty.
Arya and Sansa, too, engaged in a kind of lie when it came to Littlefinger. The circularity of their revenge was simplistic, sure—they faked out the ultimate faker, in an elaborate ruse—but I actually appreciated the tidiness of the whole thing. (Plus, the show succeeded in faking me out with that team-up twist: I’d been thinking that Arya had already killed Littlefinger and was simply Faceless Man-ing him in that cool exchange with Sansa—a circular return to the beginning of the season, with Arya’s pretending to be Walder Frey. I was pleasantly surprised to realize that I, too, had been fooled.) Game of Thrones has (generally) been thoughtful about revenge and justice and the interplay between the two, and here was Sansa, in particular, having seen so much and survived so much, getting a fitting kind of vengeance against the man who has been such a constant source of manipulation and instability in her life. Thank you for all your many lessons, Sansa tells Littlefinger, her coldness a call-back to the way she dispatched Ramsay Bolton to his dogs. And then her sister slaughtered him.
I definitely agree that there were some scoping problems as all this played out—the way, as you said, David, the sped-up and the stalled-out collided—but I actually didn’t mind that here as much as I have in past episodes. The speed and slowness struck me as better earned in this episode than they did in previous ones. And they seemed, in the context of “The Dragon and the Wolf,” like fitting reflections of a show that has been compelling in part for its ability to tangle the soaring and the small. I loved those little moments of wry humanity you pointed out, Lenika: Sansa’s note to Arya that “you’re still very strange and annoying,” that tiny but meaningful little glance exchanged between Brienne and the Hound. (There is much smizing in Westeros, at the moment!) Bronn dismisses the headliners of Wightapalooza and “the clever words that come out their pie holes” and Tyrion replies, quietly, “It’s good to see you again.” That kind of thing—the soft moments against the hard ones—gets me every time.  
But those moments also work on a thematic level. Love is often, in this show, presented as a political complication—imagine what might have happened had Robb Stark not fallen for Talisa, or had Tyrion not fallen for Shae, or had the Lannister twins remained siblings alone—and the finale set up conditions where romantic love, in particular, might either save humanity … or (oof) contribute to its demise. “The Dragon and the Wolf” solidified what we already basically knew about Jon’s true parentage; that means he is now romantically involved with not only his aunt, but also his (potential) rival for the throne. It means there’s a chance, going into the show’s final season, that Dany and Jon will at some point have to choose between each other and something greater than either of them: political power, perhaps, or salvation itself. Or maybe love, in the end, will adopt a more Nolanian dimension: Maybe it will be the force that breaks the wheel. Maybe what we’re headed toward is the two houses, the Targaryens and the Starks, joining forces in the most literal of ways—Daenerys and Aegon, the rulers of the Andals and the First Men, the protectors of the realms, the breakers of chains, the parents of dragons.


By midnight, we were good and ready. Boxers had been slugging away all evening, but it was Gervonta ‘Tank’ Davis, in the junior-lightweight contest that immediately preceded the main event, who brought at last the requisite note of wildness and transgression. Davis, approximately two feet tall, is a teetering, veering energy cone with an expression of sealed hostility and neck tattoos. Having already lost his belt by failing to make weight, and wearing shorts trimmed with fur of the smurfiest blue, he put in a scattered and rhythm-less shift against the hardwearing underdog Francisco Fonseca, finally laying him low with an illegal clout around the back of the head that appeared not to have stunned Fonseca so much as perforated his morale, or disgusted him completely: He sank to his knees and stayed there, like a seminarian having a nervous breakdown. Hooray for the sport of boxing!
And now: Here it was. This preposterous, Trump-ish thing was about to happen. As in an anxiety dream, a man was about to step into the ring, before an audience of millions, and participate in his first ever boxing match—against Floyd Mayweather. “I’m calm, comfortable,” recited Conor McGregor auto-hypnotically in his dressing room. “I see me truly outclassing this man and putting him to sleep.” He actually did look sort of calm: a lot calmer, anyway, than the screaming, dehydrated, sunken-eyed nutcase (with an apparent erection) that he had been at the weigh-in the day before. Restored now to something like his proper weight, McGregor lounged sleek and insouciant as they wrapped his hands, taking sips, as it were, of his own magnificence. Second-round knockout, perhaps, Conor? “I may stretch it a little bit longer.” As the whim took him.
Four Ways of Looking at Mayweather vs. McGregor
There was, of course, no way that he could pull it off. Take out Floyd “Money” Mayweather, evasive and cold-blooded ringmaster, supreme cynical manager of pugilistic risk? Not a chance. But what if ... ? Might he ... ? How about that tree-felling left fist of his? This is what Conor McGregor does: He bends our expectations to his will, like Uri Geller bending a spoon. And, for a few rubbery and deranged-feeling minutes at the beginning of the fight, there did seem to be a small but leaping possibility that he might have—if not psyched out his opponent—then perturbed him at some level. Crouched behind the turret of his raised guard, moving in a cramped and tight-shouldered shuffle, Mayweather was doing absolutely nothing. He threw four punches in the first round. McGregor, by contrast, was vibrantly busy, bouncing around in his fighting-Irish stance and whipping up chances from the broad and magically protected zone in front of him. His right hand was out, pawing, dabbing affectionately at Mayweather while his left hovered and looked for a target. At one point he caught him cleanly with a counter-uppercut. (“That was intriguing,” noted a ringside commentator.)
Round one, round two, round three, round four ... So this was Conor McGregor, boxing. No hook kicks, no takedowns, a drastic restriction of his capacities—although now and again he would incur the referee Robert Byrd’s displeasure by drubbing the top of Mayweather’s dome with an MMA-style “hammer fist.” His legal punches were landing, though. “Lovely shots,” said his coach John Kavanagh after the eighth round. (McGregor’s corner was ablaze with dapperness, the whole team shirtsleeved and waistcoated like angelic bartenders.) And Mayweather, for his part, continued to do almost nothing. He lumbered uncharacteristically forward, and then turned his back. The details, the angles, seemed to be escaping him. What was going on? Had the sheer freakishness and openness of McGregor's style disrupted his game? Was an upset in the offing?
Uh, no. The apparition of McGregor’s dominance turned out to be an illusion produced by the extreme boringness of the Mayweather gameplan, which was: Wait until he gets tired, and then knock him over. And after 25 minutes of suspending the world’s disbelief, Conor McGregor got tired. He slowed down. His chest—tattooed with a crowned gorilla eating somebody’s heart—rose and fell in vast sighs. At which point Mayweather accelerated, popped out his combinations, and rocked McGregor repeatedly until Byrd stopped it in the tenth. The technical knockout gave the undefeated Mayweather his historic 50th win. In the post-fight interview, McGregor lamented the stoppage—“I get like that when I’m tired. ... Let me wobble back to me corner!"—but appeared otherwise satisfied. Elated, even. And why not? He was still alive, he was undisgraced by the battle just concluded, and he was richer and more famous than ever. “Some buzz,” he said. Let him wobble back to his corner.


Two brothers, Eddie and Emile, sit in the small room they share, each on his own bed. Emile wants to watch a soap on TV. Eddie, a devout Seventh-Day Adventist, asks him to use headphones so he won’t have to hear the TV on the Sabbath. Fine—in theory. But the headphones are too short to use while on the bed, so Emile takes them off. Eddie, who remembers soap operas playing in his violent childhood home, turns off the TV. Emile turns it back on. The tension continues for days, escalating beyond electronics: Eddie stops showering in protest. Emile starts smoking on his bed. “You’re gonna kill me with cancer!” Eddie shouts at his brother. “Fratricide! Fratricide!” their next-door neighbor yells.
Emile and Eddie aren’t just brothers sharing a room; they’re also inmates sharing a cell. The scene is recounted—by the brothers themselves—in the first episode of the podcast network Radiotopia’s show Ear Hustle, which launched in June and will run through October. The brilliant series is a collaboration between the inmates Earlonne Woods and Antwan Williams and the prison volunteer Nigel Poor, and it is conceived, recorded, and produced from inside of San Quentin State Prison. The show addresses legislative issues through the personal narratives of inmates and highlights the universal experiences shared by those who are incarcerated and those who are not. “Everything that happens in prison happens on the outside,” Poor told me. “We really wanted it to be an outside/inside production in every way.”
The 30-minute, biweekly documentary series sheds light (or rather, sound) on lives that remain largely hidden from those on the outside. Of the 2.3 million people incarcerated in the United States, 1.3 million of them are in state prisons like San Quentin—yet contemporary first-person accounts of prison life can be hard to find. Ear Hustle and shows like it return some of the humanity that the carceral system removes and provide a link between inmates and outsiders.
Ear Hustle is credited as the first podcast to be created entirely in prison, but it fits into a broader legacy of prison-born audio shows. As the writer Annie Brown wrote in her 2016 California Sunday Magazine article on the history of prison-audio production in the U.S., the first radio show produced in prison began airing in 1938, and in the mid-1980s, inmates at Louisiana State Penitentiary established what they claimed was the first licensed radio station inside a prison. The long-running program Radio Diaries also did a four-part series about the criminal-justice system that originally aired on NPR in 2001. In it, inmates, correctional officers, and a judge kept audio diaries for six months, recording, as the show’s website says, “the sounds and scenes of everyday life behind bars: shakedowns, new inmate arrivals, roll call, monthly family visits, meals at the chow hall, and quiet moments late at night inside a cell.”
Ear Hustle takes inspiration from these earlier shows but is different in one regard: It combines the insight of inmate-produced radio with the editorial freedom of a podcast. The show reaches beyond the borders of a broadcast radius and also benefits from Radiotopia’s established listener base; its episodes have been downloaded 2.9 million times thus far. And because the show is not broadcast on air, the producers have more freedom in what they can say and how they can say it. “We don’t have the restrictions of time or the language constraints or content constraints,” Julie Shapiro, Radiotopia’s executive producer, told me. “They can really do whatever they want with it.”
* * *
Poor began collaborating with inmates when one of her students in the Prison University Project approached her about shooting a documentary. When filming inside San Quentin proved too logistically difficult, they switched to audio and created an interview-based program that was aired on a closed-circuit station inside the prison. Soon, the local radio station KALW partnered with inmate producers to create San Quentin Radio, which airs on one of the station’s daily shows: The 5-to-10-minute segments explore stories about living with HIV in prison, transitioning genders as a corrections officer, and learning to code while incarcerated. Poor, wanting to create longer, more narrative-driven pieces, recruited Woods—whom she had met while working on the radio project—and the two of them conceived of Ear Hustle. When they learned of Radiotopia’s Podquest competition, they asked Williams to join them as the show’s sound designer.
Woods and Poor co-host Ear Hustle and speak for each side of the inside-outside dichotomy. “I can be the voice for people on the outside who haven’t had experiences in prison,” Poor told me. “And Earlonne is definitely the voice of the experience of being incarcerated. He’s the authority there.” Woods, who is in his mid-40s and is almost two decades into a 31-year-to-life sentence for attempted second-degree robbery, provides a reality check for Poor’s at times naïve understanding of prison. In the episode “Looking Out,” which explores the ways inmates fulfill their drive to nurture while incarcerated, Poor relays a story she heard about an inmate who was in High Desert State Prison for 10 years without hearing or seeing any dogs.
“One day he heard a dog barking,” Poor says, “and he was so overwhelmed by it—”
“Bullshit!” Woods interrupts, the word bursting from his mouth.
“Why do you say bullshit?” Poor asks, laughing.
Woods explains that not only can inmates see dogs on TV, but also the unit that investigates whether inmates have contraband patrols the prison with dogs. “They have dogs,” he says. “So their dogs is gonna walk through the institution, through the buildings, and they’re gonna bark.” You can almost hear his eyes rolling.
Their dialogue is playful and lively. Poor calls Earlonne “E,” and Woods shortens Nigel to “Nige.” Williams, meanwhile, is responsible for the show’s auditory details. The sound designer is in his late-20s and has served more than a decade of a 15-year sentence for armed robbery with a gun enhancement. In “Looking Out,” an inmate named Rauch (pronounced like “roach”) talks about caring for animals in prison. There’s the low croak of what sounds like a tuba when Rauch describes a frog that followed him around his cell, and then a fly buzzes by as he recalls catching insects for his spider. The intimate noises fill in the silence around the stories, embedding them in a three-dimensional soundscape.
Ear Hustle’s setting shifts in and out of focus. In “The SHU,” Woods talks about the time he spent in the Security Housing Unit, known in some states as solitary confinement. He describes how he and his cellmate wrote screenplays to keep themselves entertained: “My screenplay was about my fantasy life where everything went right. Where I made my momma proud, never went to jail, married my high school sweetheart, went to film school. But I still had my roots in the hood, and sadly, I had to kill off my character. … It’s like you’re the god of that world. It’s the only thing that you can control in the SHU. So why not kill off my character and then resurrect him in part two?”
“I should have known that E wouldn’t die,” says Poor.
Personal narratives like Woods’s provide an opportunity to explore legislative issues. In that same episode, inmates describe the 2013 hunger strike that contributed to ending indefinite confinement in the Security Housing Unit in California. Meanwhile, Woods’s sentence, which is written into the introduction of every episode, is a result of California’s Three Strikes sentencing law. Prior to 2012, the law mandated that a defendant convicted of a felony who had two or more previous serious or violent felony convictions be sentenced to a prison term of at least 25 years to life. “He’s in for a long time for something that doesn’t seem as drastic as people might think someone who’s in for 31-to-life might be in for,” Shapiro said of Woods. “I think your general listener picks up on that kind of thing and starts thinking about fairness of the laws ... and if they’re doing right by the people that are in prison.”
* * *
Audio stories are powerful, in part, because they counteract the tendency to see those incarcerated through the lens of their crimes. “The world wants to focus on why we’re here,” says Anastazia Schmid, an inmate at the Indiana Women’s Prison (IWP), in an episode of the radio program APM Reports from last year. “What they see is the felony of a crime that happened 20 years ago, but … nobody wants to know what in the hell is happening while we’re here.” Part of what Schmid has been doing while incarcerated is academic research. She and three fellow inmates presented their findings at the 2016 meeting of the American Historical Association. Because the women couldn’t attend the conference in person, they presented via video.
“If you close your eyes and just listen,” the producer Samara Freemark says in the report, the women’s presentations are “indistinguishable from the kind of lecture you’d hear delivered on the campus of any elite college.” For those who are incarcerated, such audio narratives can open a portal to the outside world as well. In the Ear Hustle episode “Catch a Kite,” inmates respond to postcards sent from listeners, sharing strategies for determining where to sit during prison meals and giving advice about what to say to an incarcerated relative. They are not just speaking into the microphone; they are speaking back to their audience.
But the portal can quickly close again. According to Poor, she spends 30 to 40 hours each week inside the prison, creating the podcast. This constitutes a full-time job, but in a world of constant communication—while I was talking to Shapiro, a listener tweeted at Ear Hustle from Belgium—the line between being there and not there is stark. “When I’m not in there, this veil goes down,” Poor told me. To discourage inappropriate relationships from forming, volunteers like Poor aren’t allowed to be on inmates’ visiting lists and therefore can’t call them. So her only way to communicate with Woods and Williams is to show up.
Showing up isn’t always an option. Lockdowns have kept Poor out of the prison for a week at a time, including halfway through this first season. Williams, Woods, and Poor record and produce the show inside the prison’s media lab. Because there is no email, Poor must transport files back and forth from the prison to get feedback from their outside consulting editor. During a lockdown, production stops, and Poor has no way to check in and no way to know when the veil will be lifted again.
The podcast is unstable in other ways, too. Poor worries that Woods or Williams will be transferred to another prison, which would effectively cancel the show. “A lot of this is dependent on the support of the institution,” Shapiro said. One prison official they depend on is Lieutenant Sam Robinson, San Quentin’s public information officer, who approves each episode before it airs. (There are, of course, the more prosaic worries about staying afloat: When Ear Hustle won the Podquest competition and joined Radiotopia, they received a stipend to cover initial operating costs; further costs are defrayed, but not yet covered, by advertisers and donations.)
Although Poor, Williams, and Woods report stories, Poor stresses the fact that they are not journalists. She has worked as a visual artist for more than 25 years and approaches this project from that perspective. “I think it’s a different way of looking at quote-unquote truth, human truth,” she said. “We are probably never going to definitively answer any question.”
But seemingly mundane experiences, Ear Hustle suggests, can reveal those human truths. The accounts that are common for those inside and outside of prison are ones of living: the difficulties of communication, the struggle of overcoming loneliness, the sometimes devastating desire to belong. Think of Eddie and Emile bickering in their cell: Who hasn’t chosen to be passive aggressive rather than express vulnerability?
These are stories about change, and that, in itself, is remarkable: Because when inmates tell their own stories, their narratives can evolve as their lives do. Ear Hustle’s episode “Misguided Loyalty” tells the story of Tommy Shakur Ross, who has served more than 30 years in prison for murdering a member of a rival gang. Poor notes on the show that Ross has changed since entering prison, but that the facts of his crime haven’t. “You can’t change the factors of your case. … The only thing you can do is move forward with your life and try your best to become a different person,” says Woods in response. “Muhammad Ali says it best: ‘The man who views the world at 50 the same as he did at 20 has wasted 30 years of his life.’ And if you’re gonna change, the story you tell about yourself has to change. And that’s true if you’re inside or outside of prison.”


Gal Gadot on Becoming Wonder Woman, the Biggest Action Hero of the Year
Alex Morris | Rolling Stone
“Gal Gadot is ostensibly here to talk about her rise from almost total unknown to an iconic, worldwide symbol of all that is good and powerful as the first-ever feature-film incarnation of Wonder Woman. But it's hard not to see elements of the superheroic in the way she just is. Never mind that she was up at 5 a.m. with a four-month-old (‘Dude, it’s exhausting, but it's the best’); in person, her aura hovers somewhere between Earth mother and glamazon.”
Turned Upside Down
Adam Sternbergh | Vulture
“This is the story of the Duffers’ breakout show, Stranger Things, which debuted last year and quickly became Exhibit A for the kind of hit that both harks back to an age of office watercoolers yet could happen only at this very modern moment—a moment characterized by unfettered social-media chatter and short-season TV shows you can binge-watch in one manic, unhinged weekend.”
Oprah and Ingrid Goes West: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
St. Vincent’s Cheeky, Sexy Rock
Nick Paumgarten | The New Yorker
“It had been more than three years since the release of her last album, which she’d named St. Vincent, as though it were her first under that name, rather than her fourth—or fifth, if you include one she made with David Byrne, in 2012. ... The self-titled album was widely considered to be a breakthrough, a consummation of sensibility and talent, a fulfillment of the St. Vincent conceit—this somewhat severe performer who was both her and not her.”
Degas’s Model Tells All
Jeff Nagy | The Paris Review
“Degas, as seen by the model Pauline, is no stoic devotee of the Muses but a curmudgeon subject to sudden bouts of theatrical self-pity, always on the verge of collapsing into melancholy ruminations over his failing sight, his oncoming death. The artist famous for his deft public quips becomes, in private, a mealy mouthed, repetitious prattler, retailing 20-year-old anecdotes for the two-hundredth time.”
How Atlanta Is Taking Over the Entertainment Industry
Alison Herman | The Ringer
“In Hollywood’s eyes, the South used to be a place to be utilized for its specific qualities and then left alone the rest of the time. … Now, it’s every place, a phenomenon that’s had a dramatic impact on the region even as that region’s flexibility—and therefore anonymity—has meant Georgia’s filming boom hasn’t attracted much notice outside of the area.”
A White, Hot Supremacist Summer
Wesley Morris | The New York Times
“To watch the movies or TV ... is to know that normalized white supremacy has been here all summer. It’s to know that the people who manufacture all sorts of popular culture have also, intentionally or not, tossed some racism onto the assembly line. It’s to know that whatever occurred in Charlottesville and then at that news conference didn’t happen in a vacuum. They were just the gnarliest flare-ups in a season of provocations that seem so business-as-usual that they scarcely feel provoked.”
Two Paths for the Personal Essay
Merve Emre | Boston Review
“For a certain breed of personal essayist at work today, there exists a necessary and desirable trade-off between aesthetic clarity and moral complexity; a bargain premised on the depressing notion that words are always insufficient to the task at hand and so we may as well stop trying to choose the clearest or most precise ones. The adjective that best captures the conditions of this bargain is messy.”
Farewell to the Village Voice, the Publication That Welcomed Me to America
Liel Leibovitz | Tablet
“Had you asked me what role I believe journalism played in public life, I would’ve given some sterile speech about speaking truth to power and reporting honestly so that we citizens can decide. The Voice changed all that. Journalism, it taught me, was about something larger than that: It was about community.”


Don’t Miss
The Enduring Fictions of Princess Diana—Megan Garber looks at how 20 years after Diana’s death, her life still asks uncomfortable questions about what we demand of fame.
The Business of Creativity
The Book He Wasn’t Supposed to Write—Thomas E. Ricks delivers an ode to the intense, but necessary relationship between writers and their editors.
Film
Remembering Jerry Lewis—David Sims eulogizes the iconic actor, singer, director, and entertainer, who died at the age of 91.
Beach Rats Is One of the Year’s Boldest Dramas—David Sims watches Eliza Hittman’s film that chronicles the life of a closeted young man spending his days on the boardwalks of Coney Island.
TV
Is Game of Thrones on Thin Ice?—Spencer Kornhaber, David Sims, and Lenika Cruz discuss “Beyond the Wall,” the sixth episode of the seventh season.
What Netflix Can Offer Shonda Rhimes—David Sims analyzes the move of television’s biggest producer from ABC to the streaming service, the most seismic shift in the Peak-TV era yet.
Deus Ex Westeros—Megan Garber questions whether Game of Thrones could go the way of Lost due to its recent absurd plot twists and unanswered questions.
It’s Not Too Late for Halt and Catch Fire—David Sims says there’s still time to catch AMC’s dazzling drama about the dawn of the internet age.
The Defenders Proves Heroes Aren’t Enough—Sophie Gilbert wonders what the four Marvel superheroes are really united against on the Netflix show.
Saturday Night Live Needs to Ditch the Special Guests—David Sims thinks the show’s summer Weekend Update specials have laid bare a troubling dependence on actors outside the core ensemble.
Music
Grizzly Bear Capture the Beauty of Connection—Spencer Kornhaber listens to the rock band’s fifth album, Painted Ruins, which balances mysterious complexity with pure loveliness.
The Classic-Rock Ecstasy of The War on Drugs—Spencer Kornhaber reviews the band’s album, A Deeper Understanding, which offers a powerful and steady high.
Who Killed Taylor Swift?—Spencer Kornhaber believes the jarring new single “Look What You Made Me Do” unveils a dark, not-altogether-convincing persona.
What to Expect From the 2017 MTV VMAs—Spencer Kornhaber predicts pop-gossip fireworks from Katy Perry and Taylor Swift, Kendrick Lamar’s victory lap, and some not-so-subtle politics.
Sports
Four Ways of Looking at Mayweather vs. McGregor—Nancy Kidder examines why so many people are paying such close attention to a fight critics have dismissed as a farce.


The first moments of Beach Rats are lit by the harsh glare of a cellphone flash bouncing off a bathroom mirror, as the chiseled Frankie (Harris Dickinson) takes selfie after selfie, his baseball cap obscuring most of his face. It’s an image that could easily come off as patronizing—the introduction of a preening, superficial young man, defining himself through the lens of a camera—but the film’s director, Eliza Hittman, has deeper goals. Locked away in this dark room, his eyes hidden from view, Frankie is grasping for a persona he can barely express in public, wrestling with his sexuality in ways his friends and family can’t understand.
Beach Rats is part slice-of-life Brooklyn drama, following Frankie and his friends as they stroll around the Coney Island boardwalk aimlessly, and part erotic art film, as Frankie struggles to come to terms with being gay. Hittman’s second film (after the similarly sexually charged 2013 drama It Felt Like Love), Beach Rats is a moody experience, light on plot and heavy on state of mind, guiding viewers through Frankie’s neon-lit world, where everything more than five feet away is obscured in darkness.
And, Scene: Moonlight
The movie is shot with grainy 16-millimeter film, and there’s a quiet confusion to much of the story, which takes place largely at night by Brooklyn’s beaches, where unseen waves crash in the distance. Frankie lives at home with his family, where his father is dying of cancer, and spends the day ambling around the neighborhood with his always shirtless friends, in search of weed and other cheap thrills. Unlike many a working-class Brooklyn drama, in Beach Rats the youths are very passive, mostly just mumbling dumb jokes at each other rather than engaging in testosterone-fueled one-upmanship.
At a beachside fireworks show, Frankie meets a girl, Simone (Madeline Weinstein), who tries to kindle a romance with this stoic Adonis. He runs pretty hot and cold, sometimes rebuffing her rather than explaining why he struggles to perform in bed, and other times clinging to her through a mix of guilt and social pressure. Throughout the film, he also browses online gay chatrooms and meets with random older men from the internet, who consistently ask what he’s looking for. “I’m not sure what I like,” Frankie demurs, over and over, partly copping to his own inexperience and partly denying a deeper truth about himself.
The hazy photography (of the cinematographer Hélène Louvart) recalls Barry Jenkins’s Moonlight, another coming-of-age gay drama that was shot in 16-millimeter, but Louvart is far more focused on the aesthetics of Frankie and his friends, capturing their bodies from all angles as they roam the beach, seemingly entirely comfortable with the way they look. Hittman contrasts this attitude with Frankie’s jumbled interiority—his discomfort with Simone anytime she initiates intimacy, his nervousness when he meets with other men. The director gets so much from Dickinson’s expressive face, drawing out every nervous tremble and flicker of fear in his eyes.
Dickinson, a young British actor with a few TV credits to his name, is quite a find, and he magnifies Beach Rats’s best moments, keeping Frankie from feeling like a sad, doe-eyed stereotype. There are moments of subtle aggression and direct nastiness, tempered with other scenes of (sometimes literally) naked vulnerability. Hittman’s impressions of Coney Island, just a couple neighborhoods south of where she grew up in Flatbush, are similarly nuanced, avoiding the more obvious imagery of it as a tinny, honky-tonk playground.
The film does, unfortunately, swerve into clichéd plot territory for its third act, seeking to bring some closure to Frankie’s attempts to lead a double life. Most irritatingly, Hittman suddenly brings his once passive cadre of friends into the foreground and has them behave like the bullies she had previously avoided reducing them to. There are notes of conflict that ring false and a closing scene of violence that’s hardly graphic, but the film ends on too easy a conclusion, a sort of spiritual punishment for Frankie’s ongoing denial of self.
It’s a predictable turn of events—Frankie’s attempts to hide so much of himself away can’t last forever—but since Hittman avoids such heavy-handedness throughout, the finale feels especially disappointing. But Beach Rats still lingered in my brain after I saw it, mostly for those quieter shots of Frankie’s face etched with emotions that were harder to pigeonhole. Hittman, and Dickinson, should have bright futures ahead of them, but it will be hard for either of them to make a work this boldly memorable.


On Saturday night in Las Vegas, Conor McGregor will face off against Floyd Mayweather Jr. in what is being billed as “the biggest fight in combat-sports history.” Mayweather is undefeated as a professional boxer and just one victory away from beating Rocky Marciano’s all-time record of 49-0. McGregor, meanwhile, has never professionally boxed: He’s a mixed-martial artist who in four short years has become the most popular fighter in the Ultimate Fighting Championship, or UFC.
Much of the traditional sports media and boxing establishment has denounced this fight. The HBO boxing color commentator Max Kellerman predicted McGregor “will not land one punch.” The former boxer and current promoter Oscar De La Hoya called the event a cash grab by both fighters: “It’s a win-win for them. It’s a lose-lose for [fans].” The sports journalist Jeremy Schaap said similarly, “In the end, the joke will be on us.”
Boxing's Boring Night
And yet, even critics have had to acknowledge the overwhelming fan enthusiasm. The New York Post’s George Willis wrote that the fight “will be a huge financial success, even if most people think it will be one-sided.” Though some (very expensive) tickets to the Vegas event remain up for grabs, promoters still predict the bout will exceed the live gate record of $72 million set by Mayweather’s fight against Manny Pacquiao in 2015.
This past spring, I taught a course on the history and literature of boxing and combat sports: My class studied accounts of famous bouts and relevant works from Homer’s The Iliad to Martin Scorsese’s Raging Bull. A theme that runs through much of the writing about fighting, as the French philosopher and amateur middleweight Albert Camus once noted, is that “there is good and evil, the winner and the loser.” Still, the public cares about more than just a fight’s outcome; the build-up and the aftermath are part of the story, too. Whether Mayweather vs. McGregor ends as a mockery, stunning upset, or somewhere in between, here are four narratives that can help devoted fight fans and casual viewers understand the match.
Both boxing and the UFC have their pride and future at stake in this fight. Boxing has a rich history, but it’s always had its critics, some of whom have been declaring the sport near-dead for decades. In 1913, The Los Angeles Times proclaimed, “Professional Boxing Is Dying a Natural Death,” because of poorly trained younger fighters who lacked “class,” well before any of the historic fights fans now remember. Actual deaths in the ring, most notably Benny Paret in 1962 and Kim Duk Koo in 1982, both on live television, caused temporary public retreats. The aftermath of the 1997 Mike Tyson-Evander Holyfield rematch, which was stopped when Tyson twice bit Holyfield’s ears, also left fans looking elsewhere. Nevertheless, De La Hoya and Mayweather used their Olympic boxing success and savvy promotion to become contemporary stars. Mayweather has been the most successful, beating De La Hoya, remaining undefeated, and headlining the most popular pay-per-view boxing events of all time.
In contrast, the UFC has only been around since 1993. Mixed martial arts (MMA) fans often feel disrespected by boxing fans, who sometimes view the UFC as too wild, unpredictable, and inferior to the so-called “sweet science” of boxing. The UFC has made recent gains in popularity and mainstream acceptance with megastars like Ronda Rousey and now McGregor. The sale of the UFC for $4 billion in 2016 dominated headlines and made it appear to some sports analysts that MMA was positioned to leave boxing behind.
This year is turning out to be a pivotal moment for both sports. Rousey is all but retired after a second loss at the end of 2016, and McGregor hasn’t fought since November 2016. Without its stars, the UFC has struggled to draw the same numbers. At the same time, boxing is having what may be remembered as a renaissance year. The heavyweight Anthony Joshua defeated Wladimir Klitschko in front of 90,000 fans in London in April. Canelo Alvarez beat Julio Cesar Chavez Jr. in May in a fight that drew more than one million pay-per-view buys and set up a much anticipated match-up between Alvarez and Gennady Golovkin on September 16.
Mayweather vs. McGregor pits both sports against each other. If McGregor wins against an undefeated champion, boxing as a sport may be humiliated, and its rules and traditions may appear outdated. On the other hand, if Mayweather trounces McGregor, the UFC star may suffer a significant blow to his reputation and see his sport’s second-class status further entrenched.
Promotion has long been integral to prizefighting. In the late 1880s and early 1900s, promoters used print outlets, such as the celebrity magazine the Police Gazette, to publicize fights and capitalize on gambling interests.The rise of radio and television later transformed boxing into a mainstream spectator sport in the 20th century. Today, Mayweather and McGregor are using social media at a level unprecedented in previous boxing matches or other sporting events. The fighters initially teased the matchup on Twitter and Instagram as an apparent joke in the spring of 2016. Dana White, the president of the UFC, first dismissed the prospect, but the fan excitement eventually prompted him, as well as Mayweather and his team, to embrace the idea.
The fact that fan interest was enough to convince promoters to stage the fight—and disregard criticism from journalists and other experts—may have fueled the media pushback. Furthermore, as the public cuts down on cable and satellite services, combat sports may need to further investigate distributing content via social media (following the NFL’s recent experimental deal with Amazon). If the fight turns out to be the boring mismatch that has been predicted, the critics will be vindicated. The ultimate numbers drawn by the fight in sales and pay-per-view buys will be a referendum on the utility of social media to construct and promote events like this.
A significant part of the promotion and story of any bout is the fighters’ backgrounds. During part of my course, students examined texts that delve into the appeal of the hometown hero. In his book Cinderella Man, a chronicle of the Irish American fighter James Braddock, Jeremy Schaap describes how boxing “was rooted in its ethnic and racial rivalries, which were exploited by promoters and relished by fans, many of whom were immigrants or first-generation Americans.”
In the 1930s, Max Schmeling—a German who wasn’t himself a Nazi but whose talent made him a favorite of Adolf Hitler’s regime—came to be symbol of Nazism for many Americans. Max Baer, who faced Schmeling in 1933, wore a Star of David on his shorts to emphasize his Jewishness (even though his actual heritage was uncertain). Schmeling’s later fights with the African American boxer Joe Louis were also promoted as a challenge to Nazism, with some sources saying Franklin Roosevelt told Louis before his rematch with Schmeling in 1938, “Joe, we’re depending on those muscles for America.”
Both Mayweather and McGregor have origin stories with broad resonance and appeal. Mayweather grew up in a boxing family in a poor neighborhood in Michigan where drugs were prevalent, only to go on to form his own promotion company and become the most lucrative pay-per-view attraction of all time. That rise, however, has been tarnished by repeated convictions for domestic violence, including time spent in jail after multiple plea bargains and suspended sentences. Mayweather travels with a large entourage and spends lavishly. His luxury goods and stacks of cash project an Instagram image of modern American success.
McGregor also grew up in a working-class neighborhood—in Dublin, Ireland. He started out boxing at age 12 and then transitioned to MMA. He was receiving welfare payments in Ireland as recently as four years ago before joining the UFC and winning the featherweight and lightweight championships. (He named a boat he purchased the “188” after the amount of his weekly welfare checks.) McGregor’s narrative has deep ties to his home country. Many of the fans who follow and cheer him in the stands are of Irish descent or from Ireland—a place with a storied history of professional fighting champions, such as John L. Sullivan, Barry McGuigan, and “Irish” Micky Ward. These fighters also came to be symbols of unity and pride for an island that had suffered civil unrest, invasions, famines, and financial crises.
The arcs of Mayweather and McGregor are inspiring to a certain extent, but the dueling backstories and accompanying trash talk have also led to accusations of racism. At an event in early July, McGregor taunted Mayweather with the phrase “dance for me, boy.” When criticized for racial insensitivity, McGregor declared himself “black from the belly button down” while performing a lurid dance. (McGregor claimed he meant to mock the idea of racism and show his love for all people.) Regardless of intention, these taunts exposed the racial stereotypes that still run through boxing. The exchanges evoked past promotional efforts such as James Jeffries being described as “the Great White Hope” in a 1910 fight with Jack Johnson, the first black heavyweight champion, as well as Muhammad Ali’s boast that he would beat the “gorilla” Joe Frazier in the “Thrilla in Manila.” These stories all demonstrate how often promotional narratives in boxing leverage racial and national identity—however ugly the effect—to create tension around a fight.
Both Mayweather and McGregor have made nods to the iconic 1976 film Rocky and its sequels ahead of the fight. In July, John Kavanagh, McGregor’s coach, tweeted an ode to Rocky II, the sequel when Rocky Balboa finally defeats Apollo Creed: “49-0 until he faced a tough southpaw that nobody gave a chance to.” McGregor followed with a film clip of himself on a stationary bike while monitored by medical staff. The video was captioned “If he dies. He dies.”—a clear nod to Ivan Drago, the Russian super-athlete who kills Apollo by knockout in Rocky IV.
For his part, Mayweather has willingly adopted the Apollo Creed persona, wearing a red, white, and blue “48” hat to the first press conference, referencing Apollo’s undefeated record before the first movie in which Apollo won. The allusions suggest Mayweather and McGregor are aware of their respective characters in this story and, while each may have a different view of the likelihood of the underdog prevailing, both recognize this narrative’s power to sell the fight.
In the end, McGregor’s long odds haven’t deterred many spectators from betting on a victory for the Irishman—far from it. The lead-up to the fight has been filled with stories about Las Vegas sports-book operators worrying about the prospect of a Mayweather upset, given the surprisingly disproportionate number of bets placed for McGregor. As ESPN’s Doug Kezirian reported, “not a single sports-book operator I spoke with anticipated the historic one-sided betting action they’ve seen on the fight,” with many predicting massive losses if McGregor succeeds.
It’s this power of possibility that may be the most universal aspect of the event. As Joyce Carol Oates wrote in the title essay to her 1987 book On Boxing, “If a boxing match is a story it is an always wayward story, one in which anything can happen.” How this fight plays out will determine whether “anything can happen” is a romantic, hopeful refrain about the sport, or merely an empty promotional line. When McGregor finally steps into the ring with Mayweather, the audience will either be witnesses to greatness or mere revenue sources. Either way, they’ll be a part of combat sports history.


On Sunday night, millions of people will tune in to see a long, bloody storyline come to a thrilling climax when two rival queens meet in the same location, with one toting CGI reptiles. The Game of Thrones finale will be on as well.
The MTV Video Music Awards, airing this year at 8 p.m. Eastern, is the televised ceremony that’s historically been the savviest and most shameless about causing conversation-baiting moments: unexpected make-outs involving Madonna or Michael Jackson, Kanye West’s “I’mma let you finish but … ,” Miley Cyrus twerking, “Miley, what’s good?,” etc. For this year’s ceremony, the prime source of drama looks to be in the pesky psychosocial narrative that is Taylor Swift vs. Katy Perry, from which observers can draw observations about gender and fame but also simply about two superstars trying to prolong their imperial phases.
Who Killed Taylor Swift?
The origins of their beef are hazy, but its benefit to both artists has been clear, as has the fact that it fed some urge in the fan/media ecosystem to see strong females feuding. This year, Perry dined out on the appearance of bad blood by releasing a trash-talking single about triumphing over a sheep in wolf’s clothing. Then, during her brain-melting publicity stunt of livestreaming herself for four days, she tearfully forgave Swift for whatever she did. Swift famously seemed to take aim at Perry in a 2015 No. 1 hit, and her newly announced album, Reputation, promises to devilishly embrace the backlash against her for being a “snake.”
Perry is hosting the VMAs and is set to perform a “zero-gravity” medley of her songs, while Swift will be there to premiere the music video for her acidic new single “Look What You Made Me Do.” Producers have publicly shot down rumors of a collaborative set, but how could any of the involved parties who thrive on attention resist an encounter? Perhaps the two will formally announce peace—and then hiss at everyone who egged their fight on over the years: Look at what you made us do. The appeal of a headline-grabbing moment for the singers is clear enough. Judging by sales of her loopy Witness, Perry’s appeal is flagging, and whether Swift can continue as a No. 1 commercial conquerer through another album cycle is the pop question of the moment.
The other vital superstar of the night will be Kendrick Lamar, someone who has largely kept the celebrity-media ecosystem at arm’s length. After putting out his most accessible album this year and being rewarded with unprecedented commercial success, he has eight VMA nominations, including Video of the Year (for “Humble”) and Artist of the Year. He’s also booked to perform, and judging from his pyrotechnic 2016 Grammys set, it could make for a splashy political statement. If someone were going to offer a powerful on-stage artistic commentary about, say, Charlottesville, it’d be him. Then again, he’s earned his right to just party.
Lamar will be among what’s apparently the largest crop of scheduled performers in VMAs history. The elevated headcount might be an attempt to make up for a dearth of icon-status folks such as Beyoncé, Rihanna, and Kanye West, who defined last year’s ceremony. To be sure, there will be huge names present—Ed Sheeran, Lorde, The Weeknd—but more intriguing are folks like the earnest young R&B crooner Khalid, making his VMAs debut. The cult-beloved rapper Logic reportedly will incorporate tributes to recently deceased rockers Chester Bennington and Chris Cornell into his set. More head-scratchingly: Rod Stewart will be joined by DNCE—the band of Joe Jonas of the Jonas Brothers, famous for the hit “Cake by the Ocean”—for a new version of “Da Ya Think I’m Sexy.”
If this all sounds like pop-gossip escapism during a time of national tumult, well, it is. But politics will be an issue, one way or another. A new awards category, “Best Fight Against the System,” will highlight videos with a social message, like Alessia Cara’s body-positivity statement “Scars to Your Beautiful” and The Hamilton Mixtape’s “Immigrants (We Get the Job Done).” Moreover, if the entire Perry/Swift situation seems a bit regressive in its identity politics, the VMAs have at least paid lip service to the idea of progress on that front. For the first time, its categories and awards will be gender neutral—which is to say, instead of “Best Male Video” and “Best Female Video” there’s simply “Artist of the Year.” And in the greatest sign of the times, the Moonman trophy is now just a Moonperson.


Who killed Taylor Swift? Her new single, “Look What You Made Me Do,” has her bragging of coming back from the dead, and the sound of her song does, in fact, feel like the work of a hell creature possessing someone once capable of charm.
The most drastic sign of Swift’s semi-fun new malevolence is the chant-and-dance chorus, which channels both Peaches and—this is not a joke but rather something literally acknowledged in the credits to the song—Right Said Fred’s “I’m Too Sexy.” Elsewhere, skewed string instruments are even more obvious in their spookiness than the soundtrack cues from American Horror Story. Underneath it all are churning electronic bass and snappy drum machines, aligning with recent radio trends save for whatever trend explained Swift’s previous success. The song is a monster: catchy but cringeworthy.
Inside the Taylor Swift Corn Maze
Swift, an expert manager of public narratives, trusts that anyone listening has been paying enough attention to the past few years of headlines to guess who the dirty no-good “you” of the title is.  The most obvious target: her perpetual tormenter Kanye West, who last year performed on a tilted stage like the one Swift sings about here and trapped her with a phone call like the one she stages in a skit late in the song. Other high-profile rivals, like Katy Perry or the radio host David Mueller, who she just testified against for sexual harassment, slot in just fine. So do the listener’s own villains thanks to the rather vague writing. Who can’t find use for such delicious taunts as, “No, I don’t like you”?

But given the newsprint-encrusted cover of her forthcoming album, Reputation, the safest guess is that “you” is more or less everyone: paparazzi, critics, and the public at large, subjecting her to the standard celebrity crucible of scrutiny. At some point every pop star turns on the industry that made them, and the form of that clapback can include hedonistic liberation (Britney Spears, “Piece of Me”) or folksy deconstruction (Lady Gaga, Joanne). Swift has chosen to lean into the snark, morphing into the destructobot that she’s been accused of hiding inside. This is a trick she pulled once, brilliantly, on 2014’s much funnier “Blank Space.” The new single, though, is only an accidental triumph in reputation management, giving the lie to the idea that a full-on cutthroat persona comes naturally to her.
Because the true horror of “Look What You Made Me Do” is in what Swift reveals, perhaps unintentionally: The pretense of just not caring anymore—the insistence that she’s “harder and smarter,” as she puts it in the Lorde-like pileup of the pre-chorus—is contradicted by how desperately Swift strains to communicate her transformation. She’s telling-not-showing, crudely. The cute vignette about the old Taylor having bit the dust is one example. So are the production choices, relying on old ideas about electronica as intrinsically cold and distancing. And the flat chorus draws on a pop-culture cliche of affectless avengers; Game of Thrones’s ever-more-monotone Arya Stark, fulfilling the same gendered archetype, even has a kill list like the one mentioned here. Swift sounds as though she’s stepping into a pre-made character, one a lot less fascinating than the one she came up with before.
Produced and co-written by Jack Antonoff, the song does have enough spin-class utility to stick around if the public’s able to get past the gut-level discomfort Swift triggers here. The way she clips her syllables in the verses and then unnaturally syncopates them in the chorus, and the way that the pre-chorus is its own monster hook, are signs of the calculation for catchiness that Max Martin executed on Swift’s juggernaut 1989. And the long list of “this sounds like” comments on social media when the song dropped—to Fergie, to Gwen Stefani, to Madonna, to Ladytron—are a sign that she’s out on less of a limb than it seems. The sass and self-aggrandizing routine that Swift has always peddled remains; it’s the recognizable humanity, the writerly poignance, and the eye for fresh angles that are gone. What did we make her do, really? Nothing that hasn’t been done before.


In June of 2011, to celebrate what would have been the 50th birthday of Princess Diana, Newsweek published a cover story with a title both simple and ominous: “Diana at 50: If She Were Here Now.” Written by the magazine’s then-editor, Tina Brown, who had been a friend of Diana’s during her short life, the essay was a blend of speculative and fan fictions: Brown imagined Diana having lived beyond mid-1997 and into the world of mid-2011. The images that accompanied Brown’s essay depicted Diana, age eerily grafted onto her with the assistance of Photoshop, gallivanting with her daughter-in-law, Kate Middleton, clutching an iPhone, grinning. The package indulged, on the whole, in a very particular kind of fantasy—that Diana’s unruly humanity might later in her life have resolved into the thing that had for so long eluded her: happiness.
What We Talk About When We Talk About ‘Unruly’ Women
The logic of Brown’s tribute to her friend is replicated in the new novel Imagining Diana, which also speculates about what might have happened had Diana survived the Paris car crash that did, in fact, take her life. Diane Clehane’s book is one of many new works that are being released to commemorate the 20th anniversary of Diana’s death: books (National Geographic’s Remembering Diana: A Life in Photographs), collectible magazine editions (Diana: Her Legacy of Love), and documentaries, among them National Geographic’s Diana: In Her Own Words. CBS’s Princess Diana: Her Life—Her Death—The Truth. PBS’s Diana—Her Story. TLC’s Princess Diana: Tragedy or Treason? The Smithsonian Channel’s Diana and the Paparazzi. HBO’s Diana, Our Mother: Her Life and Legacy.
In one way, the new works are simply predictable reiterations of the older ones: products of the Diana industry, its dusty machinery having lurched to life once more. But there is also, in them, something particularly fit to the world of the 21st century: the fan fiction. The Photoshop both literal and figurative. The consideration of celebrity as both a commercial transaction and an existential condition. Twenty years after she died, chased down by paparazzi who were chasing the images the people craved, many of these new takes look at Diana’s life and see not just a princess trapped in a flawed fairy tale, but also a public who helped to ensure her continued captivity. They reckon with the irony they helped to create—an irony that lives on, in some ways, for the celebrities of the current moment: that, as Diana’s brother Charles put it at her funeral, “a girl given the name of the ancient goddess of hunting was in the end the most hunted person of the modern age.” They look, once again, at Diana. And they seek their own—our own—redemption.
* * *
Photography is an art of intimacy. There’s equipment involved in it, yes—metal, glass, lenses that contort reality in order to capture it—but on the whole the taking of pictures is physical work, requiring a proximity between the photographer and the subject. There can be a magic in that; there can also be a sense of invasion. The subject, captured without her consent. The subject, zoomed in on. The subject, “shot.”
That dynamic—subject and object, stalker and prey—informs much of the conventional wisdom that sprang up in the days and years after Diana’s death: The press, the logic went (the photographers, in particular) were at least partially to blame for the car accident that took her life. The paparazzi, frenzied by Diana’s new relationship with Dodi Fayed, had chased her into that tunnel in Paris; they had encouraged Fayed’s chauffeur, Henri Paul, to speed up in an effort at evasion; the effort failed in the most tragic way possible. The jury at the 2008 inquests into the deaths of Diana and Fayed found the paparazzi to be a contributing factor in those deaths. In 2007, Phil Hall, who had been the editor of the News of the World during Diana’s life, put it bluntly: “A big Diana story could add 150,000 sales,” he said. “So we were all responsible.”
That sense of collective guilt remains a common theme in the new Diana documentaries. In Diana, Our Mother, Prince William notes of the tabloids that paid for the paps’ images, “I think it was an industry that lost its way, quite heavily. Lost its sense of decency, lost its perspective on what was appropriate.” In TLC’s Princess Diana: Tragedy or Treason?, an examination of the many conspiracy theories that arose to explain the crash, the royal historian Kate Williams compares Diana to a hunted fox. In the same film, Tamron Hall, the former NBC News anchor, describes Diana as the prey that finds itself under the constant surveillance of the media’s collective “hyena.” Prince Charles, in a TV interview with his then-wife, noted “the cameras poking at you from every corner.” Diana herself called her treatment at the hands of the press “appalling.”
What the movies also acknowledge, though, are the capitalistic forces at play in all that: The press was doing the bidding of the public—a public with a voracious appetite for Diana, and in particular for pictures of her. That Diana was “the people’s princess” was a concept introduced by the British prime minister Tony Blair in a speech he delivered after her death—and the term was a reference not merely to her reputation for unstuffiness, or to her humanitarian work, but also to the sense of ownership people had over her life. That sense was ratified by a progression of pictures: the 19-year-old pre-school assistant, the sunlight rendering her modest skirt virtually transparent. The 20-year-old bride, her dress billowing behind her like a pouf of airy possibility. The 21-year-old mother, expertly soothing her newborn. And then, later: The global celebrity, “shy Di” no longer, twirling on a White House dance floor with John Travolta. And meeting AIDS patients—hugging AIDS patients—at Middlesex Hospital in London. And touring the minefields of Angola. And sitting on the diving board of Fayed’s yacht in the Mediterranean, legs dangling insouciantly—ominously—over the edge.
Intimate and distant, public and private: Diana’s story was one often told through pictures rather than words. She tried to push back against that—in bids for sympathy, perhaps, but also, it seems, for complication itself. She wanted to be understood not as a fanciful literary figure, but as a full and flawed human. In 1993, the journalist Andrew Morton published Diana: Her True Story, the first work to document some of the truths that had complicated the life that had initially seemed such a fairy tale, among them Diana’s eating disorders and suicide attempts. In interviews, Morton stood by the veracity of his story while insisting that he would not reveal his sources for it. Only after she died did Morton disclose that Diana herself had been his source. (“Thank you for your belief in me,” she had written to her biographer in a letter, “and for taking the trouble to understand this mind—it’s such a relief not to be on my own anymore and that it’s okay to be me.”)
She had to fight for that nuance, though. Diana was, through the media, living a bildungsroman in real time. The young Lady Spencer was deemed suitable to become Prince Charles’s wife in part because she was so young—an asset not only when it came to the expectations of childbearing that would be placed on her (her uncle, Lord Fermoy, vouched for her virginity to the Daily Star), but also when it came to the more narrative elements of modern princessery: She arrived on the scene, essentially, a blank slate. No previous boyfriends who could sell stories of her to the tabloids. No dramas of the past that might inject themselves into her new life. Diana appealed to the royal family in large part because she had, prior to accepting that sapphire-and-diamond ring, led a quiet life of easy aristocracy.
And her story from there resonated not just because of the gauzy romance of royalty, but also because of the conflict that will result when the traditions of monarchy tangle with the realities of a heavily mediated world. As Tina Brown noted in her Newsweek essay, “‘Happily ever after’ will never have the same allure to the press as ‘it all went horribly wrong.’” Diana’s personal take on the modern-day fairy tale could be shaped and molded, the thinking seems to have gone—largely through the bards of the media.
“How are you coping with all the press attention?” an anonymous reporter, following the not-yet-princess as she walked to her car in London, asked Diana, in 1979, in a scene aired across several of the 2017 documentaries.
“Well as you can see,” Diana began to reply—and, then, she trailed off. “You can tell,” Diana said, dodging a sidewalk lamppost.
The reporter pressed on. “Are you bearing up with it quite well, though? Because it must be quite a strain with all of us after you.”
Diana’s reply? “Well it is, actually.”
She is polite; she is also a little bit baffled. She is being asked to comment, after all, on how she is coping with the press attention by a member of the press who is lavishing that attention. Early on, through the repetition of such ironies, Diana came to be a media event incarnate: a person who was famous for being famous. A walking tautology. In the Smithsonian Channel’s Diana and the Paparazzi, a tabloid editor describes a common practice for their Sunday editions, after Diana and Charles had separated and her life had become considerably less quiet than it once had been. If Diana had plans to go out on Saturday night, the editors would save a space in the paper for her: Whatever she ended up doing, they figured, would be newsworthy. In the sense that it would further the story being written about her in the media—the fan fiction that surrounded her even while she was alive.
* * *
Diana often compared herself to Marilyn Monroe: a woman also haunted and hunted, a woman also misunderstood, a woman who was in her own way famous for being famous. But Diana also had much in common with Beyoncé, and Kim Kardashian, and Taylor Swift, and the other women who would travel the path she helped to shape, with all those motorbiked cameramen in tow. She raised questions about a culture that is unsure what it wants from its celebrities: Are they role models? Are they warnings? Does their appeal rest in the fact that they are just like us—or in the notion, instead, that they are mortal gods?
Diana, so revered, so belittled, so sanctified, so victimized, was in her death a reminder of the obvious: The people in the images, held up as paragons of beauty and talent and fame itself, are ultimately flesh and bone. They are flawed and fallible, just like us. Diana, by virtue of the timing of her death, was perhaps the last of the analog celebrities: She died before Facebook and Twitter and Snapchat would come on the scene; she died less than a decade after her fellow Brit, Tim Berners-Lee, created the World Wide Web. (On the BBC’s 2002 list of the “100 Greatest Britons,” Berners-Lee was deemed the 99th greatest. Diana was deemed the third.) She died just before the dynamics of fame became regulated by the dynamics of marketing—just before, as The New York Times’s Katherine Rosman put it, celebrities took back some control, manipulating the press and calling it “branding.” She died just before she could, in some way, fight back.
And, so, 20 years later, to mourn Diana is also to mourn what she might have been, had she lived longer: personally fulfilled, in the manner of Brown’s fan fiction, and also, when it came to the press, more empowered. Better equipped. Front and center, rather than at the distant end of a roving telephoto lens. In 1997, Diana’s eulogies talked of guilt and shame; in 2017, her celebrations look for redemption. But they have a hard time finding it: Another irony of Diana’s celebrity was that people cared about her so reflexively that they weren’t sure how to care about her genuinely. They—we—looked at Diana and saw, first and foremost, an image to be bought. A character to be discussed. A royal to be envied. A heroine to be pitied. There was the people’s princess, trapped in a gilded tower, waving frantically at those gathered below as they gazed, and gawked, and paused to take just one more picture.


It’s easy to understand the reasoning behind Saturday Night Live Weekend Update: Summer Edition, convoluted name aside. SNL’s September-to-May network schedule keeps it off the air for the whole summer, and as the Trump administration (the program’s biggest ratings booster) rumbles along making news every day, the show doesn’t get any bites at the satirical apple, so to speak. So these half-hour episodes, centered entirely on the Michael Che and Colin Jost-hosted topical-news segment, are a way for the show to try and stay relevant ahead of a pivotal season. It’s also no coincidence that the most viral clips to come out of these specials have starred SNL veterans like Bill Hader, Jimmy Fallon, Seth Meyers, and Tina Fey.
Anytime Saturday Night Live starts airing Weekend Update specials, you know it just had a big year. In 2008, after the show’s ratings bump following Fey’s Sarah Palin impression, NBC ordered three primetime episodes to air as a sort of election special, anchored by Seth Meyers and Amy Poehler. The duo returned for another three episodes in 2009, as the political stuff was still flying high, and two more such specials aired in the fall of 2012, this time centered on the Obama-Romney election.
'Let Us Eat Cake': The Tina Fey Effect in 2017
Politics has always been a boon for Saturday Night Live. Its 42nd season, which aired over the 2016 election and Trump’s early months in office, revitalized the show’s ratings as usual. But unlike 2008, a moment that helped magnify SNL’s already impressive ensemble (including Kristen Wiig, Andy Samberg, Poehler, and Meyers), 2016 instead highlighted the show’s deficiencies. Saturday Night Live relied too heavily on celebrity guests and drop-ins from alumni, was confused on just how forcefully it should criticize Trump (though it eventually settled into a fairly harsh tone on that front), and clearly lacked the kinds of popular recurring characters that form the backbone of the show.
So far, Weekend Update: Summer Edition hasn’t done much to change that perception. In the first episode, Hader dropped by to play Anthony Scaramucci in a sketch that was pre-taped in Los Angeles, a trick the show employed a few times last year to work around the busy schedule of Melissa McCarthy (who played Sean Spicer to great effect). Hader was his typical amusing self as “the Mooch,” but there’s often an airless quality to those pre-taped bits (it’s called Saturday Night Live for a reason), and this time was no different.
On the next episode, the former Weekend Update hosts Fallon and Meyers performed a double act as George Washington and Thomas Jefferson, a cute hat-tip to their status as SNL’s wizened ancestors. Then Fey stopped by for a much remarked-upon monologue on the Charlottesville protests, speaking as an alumna of the University of Virginia. Through it all, Jost and Che provide the usual one-liners and chummy repartee, but the whole endeavor feels like a desperate attempt to stay in the conversation and keep up with the nonstop political news.
This is not to say Saturday Night Live is fading away; it was still one of the highest-rated, and most-discussed, shows of the 2016 season and remains hugely popular in the all-important advertiser “demo” (people aged 18-49). But the program is at a crossroads as it looks ahead to a year in comedy that promises to be just as politically charged as the last. Does it double down on the short-term play it made last season—lots of guest stars taking on lots of topical figures—or start to hand roles back to its actual ensemble, in the hopes of building them up with audiences?
Remember that some of SNL’s biggest recent stars have been Alec Baldwin (who plays Trump), Larry David (whose Bernie Sanders impression was highly touted), and McCarthy. Kate McKinnon, who played Hillary Clinton on the show, as well as Kellyanne Conway, Jeff Sessions, and many others, is entering her seventh SNL season, so it may not be long before she leaves to pursue a movie career full-time. Behind her, the bench is weak.
Aside from Kenan Thompson (a brilliant member of SNL’s firmament), the cast consists of solid ensemble players like Aidy Bryant, Cecily Strong, and Beck Bennett, none of whom has ever quite broken out in the way McKinnon has. Leslie Jones is the closest thing SNL has to a successor to McKinnon, but she might be a better fit for the Update desk (which has long been the provenance of stand-up comedians like herself). The rest of the returning cast is Pete Davidson, Kyle Mooney, Mikey Day, Alex Moffat, and Melissa Villaseñor, with Bobby Moynihan, Vanessa Bayer, and Sasheer Zamata all having left in the off-season.
Looking at that cast list (and it’s possible the show will announce more hires soon), it’s not hard to glean what’s in Saturday Night Live’s immediate future. Baldwin-as-Trump will remain the star as long as he wants the role, and he has announced his return even though he’s publicly noted his queasiness about the gig at times. McCarthy’s Spicer will perhaps only get a send-off sketch, as the press secretary stepped down this summer. But there will certainly be more White House staffers for the show to train its sights on, as well as more famous ex-SNL cast members on deck to take swings at them.
Still, this political boom can’t last forever, and without it, SNL’s future is relatively bleak. Of the most recent hires, Day (an experienced writer) and Moffat have stood out the most, but they’re similar comedic types (rangy white guys). Two of the show’s biggest personalities (Jones and Davidson) are stand-ups, who are less strong as sketch performers, and there’s a serious absence of good impressionists, another crucial part of SNL’s DNA. For the show to escape its cycle of viral mediocrity, the cast will have to take more risks, and the writers will have to push out more sketches that don’t require superstar guest appearances. Sad as it may be, don’t count on SNL to make these necessary changes in time for Season 43.


This story contains spoilers through all eight episodes of The Defenders.
The premise of The Defenders was a doozy: Netflix’s four Marvel superheroes, with their various powers, and foibles, and neatly color-coded worlds, would team up to battle an antagonist so powerful and so nefarious that it required their collective might to defeat it. What’s not to like? As The Avengers has proven, the only thing better than a superhero is a team of superheroes, griping, and squabbling, and eating shawarma together after saving the world again.
And yet, working through all eight episodes of the miniseries uniting Daredevil, Jessica Jones, Luke Cage, and Iron Fist, it became apparent around the fifth episode that something crucial was missing. This was (spoilers ahead) when it became clear that the primary goal of the evil organization the four heroes were fighting, The Hand, was ... to go back to K’un-Lun, a mystical city in a parallel dimension. Forget penetrating the upper echelons of government, or building a criminal empire by consolidating rival factions, or even getting New York City addicted to an extremely potent form of synthetic heroin. Instead, the five fingers of The Hand simply wanted to secure enough ground-up dragon bone (conveniently fossilized several thousand feet under Hell’s Kitchen) to secure their immortality and then go home, with or without the Iron Fist in tow.
The Disturbing Appeal of the Punisher
It was a plot that drew heavily on events from both seasons of Daredevil and the most recent debut of Iron Fist, in which The Hand was revealed to have infiltrated both New York’s criminal underworld and its corporate boardrooms. And yet, whether because of the show’s limited number of episodes or simple budgetary restraint, The Hand seemed positively subdued in The Defenders, lacking in motivation and manpower. Compare the final episode to the epic battle in the last episode of Season 2 of Daredevil, where Matt Murdock (in costume) fought a horde of several thousand ninjas led by Nobu Yoshioka. But in The Defenders, down in the Chamber of Secrets the mysterious midtown hole filled with dragon remains, The Hand’s four remaining fingers were left to do most of the fighting themselves, with only a sparse collection of henchmen helping on the sidelines.
If The Defenders proves anything, it’s that villains are as important to the success of a Marvel story as heroes are. To neglect them, or (as seems more likely) to be stymied by a confluence of existing narrative events that require reconciling, is to end up with a series that squanders its premise. In the third episode, when the four primary characters finally got to fight together for the first time, The Defenders proved its potential, showing how dynamic and fun it could be to have the squad’s various powers united for good. But as the series went on, it became progressively less clear what exactly they were fighting for. The threat of an earthquake that would destroy Manhattan loomed mysteriously large, even though the solution—detonating enough C-4 to bring down a midtown building—seemed more destabilizing to the city’s geology than smashing a mystical door to mine dragon bones could ever be.
Unpredictably, one of the biggest flaws of the miniseries was Sigourney Weaver’s Alexandra Reid, a paint-by-numbers aesthete of a villain with a yen for fine art and a wardrobe full of neutral separates from Akris Punto. Weaver brought exactly the same steely poise to the role that she did to her last major dramatic role, the Hillary Clinton-a-like Elaine Barrish in 2012’s Political Animals, with little of the underlying menace or sadism required in a woman intent on owning the world’s greatest human weapon. Even with the backstory that her daughter’s death had spurred her own quest for immortality, Alexandra was considerably less intriguing than Wai Ching Ho’s Madame Gao, whose own apparent super-strength almost bested Jessica Jones.
The show even seemed to acknowledge Alexandra’s flimsiness as an antagonist in Episode 6 when she was abruptly and unexpectedly murdered by Matt’s former lover/the Chaste warrior Elektra (Elodie Yung). But the sudden switch in enemies only pointed out the deficiencies in a different character. Elektra, brought back from death by The Hand with the last of the “substance” used to revive its leaders, has always been a difficult character, a sociopathic femme fatale bent on bringing out the bad in Matt Murdock. Revived, she was even more two-dimensional, intent on taking over leadership of The Hand for reasons that seemed opaque at best. The only plot element more irritating was Matt’s persistent belief that he could detect good in a woman whose favorite hobby is killing people with Okinawan sais.
The weakness of the villains in The Defenders comes into sharper focus next to some of the better Marvel series Big Bads. The most fascinating ones, like Jon Bernthal’s antiheroic Punisher, or David Tennant’s manipulative Kilgrave, have stepped outside of the comic-book realm to illuminate darker tendencies in the real world. Kilgrave, able to verbally control anyone in his presence thanks to a virus he emitted, served as an allegory about abusive relationships and controlling partners. And the disturbing appeal of Frank Castle/The Punisher, as my colleague David Sims wrote in 2016, pointed to the increasing appeal of simplistic, ferocious enforcers with guns who specialize in rough justice.
The first teaser trailer for the upcoming spinoff The Punisher, hidden after the credits of the final episode of The Defenders, hints at Marvel’s grimmest series yet—a bloodthirsty, noirish world of crime and … well, punishment. (If Daredevil’s color palette is red, Jessica Jones’s is blue, Luke Cage’s is yellow, and Danny Rand’s is green, The Punisher’s appears to be a queasy shade of aquamarine.) In Bernthal’s Castle, the franchise already has one charismatic, haunted antihero to enact his personal code on the world. But if he doesn’t have the antagonist he deserves, he’ll be missing the most pivotal thing a superhero needs.


Why would Shonda Rhimes, the star writer of ABC’s primetime lineup for the last decade and the creator behind shows like Grey’s Anatomy and Scandal, want to leave network TV? Her position atop the highly competitive pile of broadcast-television producers was unassailable, and her batting average for launching hit series to the widest possible audience remained strong. So why would she move to Netflix, a change that was announced last week? For all of the prestige the streaming service has rapidly accrued, its audience is still subscriber-based and thus much smaller than ABC’s nationwide reach.
The simple answer, according to Rhimes’s former producing partner Mark Gordon (who worked with her on Grey’s Anatomy), is burnout. Rhimes is the showrunner of both Grey’s and Scandal, an impossible-seeming workload for any writer, and also helps with producing and shepherding other shows to series (such as How to Get Away With Murder, The Catch, and less-successful programs like Off the Map and Still Star-Crossed). “I think the Netflix opportunity will give her a chance to broaden her horizons,” Gordon said at the Edinburgh International Television Festival. “She won’t have to do 22 to 24 episodes anymore. It’s brutal and was killing her.” That may be the case, but for Rhimes and many other producers the allure of Netflix lies in more than just a lighter workload.
Netflix Believes in the Power of Thumbs
Rhimes, and her company Shondaland, is the biggest fish Netflix’s original-TV silo has reeled in so far. But plenty of other prominent names have recently committed to producing original shows for the company, including the Coen brothers (creating an anthology series called The Ballad of Buster Scruggs) and Steven Soderbergh (producing a limited series called Godless). In every case, Netflix is writing huge checks to name-brand creators who can guarantee an audience and hopefully broaden an already wide subscriber base.
But for Rhimes, the draw has to be more than financial—after all, there’s plenty of money to be made in network TV. Her move to Netflix is the clearest sign of a seismic shift in the television world, where traditional metrics of success like massive ratings, syndication deals, and prime-time slots matter less, and greater artistic independence is the ultimate goal. Right now, Netflix can offer an unprecedented blank check for each of its creators. The question is whether it can sustain it into the future.
“Shondaland’s move to Netflix is the result of a shared plan [that Netflix’s chief content officer] Ted Sarandos and I built based on my vision for myself as a storyteller and for the evolution of my company,” Rhimes said in a statement announcing the news. “Ted provides a clear, fearless space for creators at Netflix. He understood what I was looking for—the opportunity to build a vibrant new storytelling home for writers with the unique creative freedom and instantaneous global reach provided by Netflix’s singular sense of innovation. The future of Shondaland at Netflix has limitless possibilities.”
She’s right: For Netflix, the prize is Rhimes’s brand, allowing her to pursue whatever kind of programming she wants. Despite Rhimes’s stature on network TV, her shows had to go through the drawn-out production process of any new ABC series—and could still end up dead on arrival. Still Star-Crossed, which Rhimes produced for ABC, was written in October 2015, ordered to pilot in January 2016, ordered to series in May 2016, and finally premiered on May 29, 2017. Because of poor ratings and mixed reviews, it was canceled less than a month later.
That kind of production cycle is the sort of thing Netflix has thoroughly disrupted. Rhimes won’t be competing for limited time slots with all the network’s other new offerings, nor will her shows need strong ratings out of the gate to guarantee future success. That will allow her to be more deliberate in identifying the kinds of stories she wants to tell and less worried about finding the perfect launch date for a series. Netflix pushes out so much content partly because it wants viewers to have endless new things to discover; it thrives on slower word-of-mouth appeal.
At the same time, Rhimes is a network-TV storyteller through and through. Her shows are gripping, overstuffed with plot twists and shocking reveals, and usually procedural in some form (Grey’s and Scandal both have “case of the week” stories along with their serialized narratives). She’s been pumping out 22-episode seasons for many years now, keeping up with the exhausting demands of the nine-month, network-TV season.
With Netflix, Rhimes won’t be asked to produce more than 13 episodes a season—perhaps even as few as eight—so her shows might not have the air of fatigue that plagued the later seasons of Scandal (which will conclude after this upcoming seventh season). Many Netflix series could be accused of stretching their stories out to fill the demands of a 13-episode run, but Rhimes should excel in that format, trimming some of the excess from her explosive season arcs to make them hit even harder.
The freedom of streaming TV may not last forever. Netflix is in billions of dollars of debt and shows no sign of making a profit soon, planning instead to deficit spend for years as Amazon did in order to create a base of original content. But there’s still enough stability to guarantee Rhimes and other top creators the creative freedom they lack at a broadcasting conglomerate like ABC.
The most significant shift in the future, in fact, may come at ABC’s end. Its parent company Disney has already announced its own streaming service, to debut in 2019, which will feature a vast library of films and TV, along with new original content. That move will end Disney’s vaunted deal with Netflix—which has given Netflix streaming rights to the Star Wars and Marvel movies, among other titles—and open a new front in a never-ending format war. Only a broadcast network like ABC could still claim to reach virtually all of America’s viewing public. But that power is clearly starting to diminish.


The War on Drugs has one of those band names that isn’t supposed to mean anything. But listen to the Philadelphia band’s wonderful fourth album, A Deeper Understanding, and, you may, in fact, think about drugs—and more specifically, clichés surrounding drugs and rock-and-roll history.
Bandleader Adam Granduciel is a student of that history, and his music often poses questions few rock fans may have thought to ask. Like, “What if Don Henley’s ‘The Boys of Summer’ was 10 minutes long?” or “Why can’t we live inside the fourth minute of Bruce Springsteen’s ‘Jungleland’ forever?” But he taps the past with a sensibility that’s new. The sounds of ’60s psychedelia are here, yet not the questing, form-free sensibility associated with psychedelics. Signifiers of ’70s and ’80s excess also abound, but the twitchy bravado or desperate intensity that critics might have described as “coked out” doesn’t. Rather, these songs pulse steadily and patiently, doling out climaxes of euphoria at carefully considered intervals. With apologies for using one of the iffiest tropes of record reviewing: This is classic rock on MDMA.
Grizzly Bear Capture the Beauty of Connection
Granduciel and a shifting cast of band members have been recording under the War on Drugs name since 2005, with their greatest commercial and critical breakthrough arriving via 2014’s Lost in the Dream. That album’s standouts “Red Eyes” and “Under the Pressure” perfected a formula for immersing listeners: Over a chugging and unfailing rhythm, the band tunefully layered guitar heroics, vintage keyboards, and Dylanesque vocals—all cloaked in dreamy reverb. The songs infiltrated streaming-service playlists, publications’ year-end lists, and the consciousness of the rock mogul Jimmy Iovine, who proclaimed the band’s impending hugeness. Granduciel signed to a major label, Atlantic Records, and has now delivered an album of spectacular scale and ambition.

It’s the rhythm that first defines most of the songs on A Deeper Understanding, with drum and bass interlocking for, say, a Creedence Clearwater Revival shamble, or a Tom Petty toe-tap. Once established, the groove is almost never interrupted—even as the song mutates for five, six, or 12 minutes. This is a technique most reminiscent of ’70s German rockers like Neu!, but also, structurally, of techno and house music. For Granduciel, it’s a way to achieve something novel and, perhaps counterintuitively, unpredictable. He told Vice, “I don’t like drums dictating the song; like when you hear a fill and then you know the chorus is coming up.”
The reliable hum lends itself to easy listening—and easy criticism. You can clean your house or host a dinner party to A Deeper Understanding, absolutely, and as it filters in you might find yourself thinking, “I like this song, the one with the pretty piano part,” or “this one, which reminds me of ‘Free Bird,’” only to eventually realize there are a number of tracks that fit those descriptions. Drive-by absorption might also make certain listeners write off the band as it transgresses common ideas of coolness and taste. The singer Mark Kozelek, for example, infamously once heard The War on Drugs playing on a distant festival stage and sneered at their “beer commercial lead-guitar shit.” That wasn’t an inaccurate description, to be fair—but it sold short the full scope of the music.
It’s the close listen that reveals Granduciel’s real talent. In interviews, he’s talked about obsessively fussing over every sound in the mix, and the payoff from that attention is serious: Each instrumental element is crisp and fully rendered, familiar yet fresh. Synthetic strings, for example, may not have been this capable of producing actual emotion, since, well, the early-’80s that Granduciel so often references. Some of the album’s most powerful guitar-shredding passages, played full blast, will make it seem as if an amp is plugged in in your living room.
But the point is not only the feel of these sounds. Granduciel writes generous, poppy hooks and deploys them at the moment of maximum possible impact. The guitar line that defines “Strangest Thing”—one of the best songs of the year—doesn’t arrive until 2 minutes and 40 seconds in, transforming what had been a wistful comedown tune into something massive, like “Purple Rain” played on  cathedral bells. On that song and elsewhere, it becomes clear Granduciel’s arrangements aren’t nearly as repetitive as they may initially seem. Melodies emerge, move among instruments, and then seem to die. Rebirth, minutes later, is always possible.

In the rare occasions that Granduciel varies the rhythm of a song, the effect on the listener is like that of a seismic event. I jumped a few times listening to the awesome new-age-y workout of “In Chains”: first when a drum fill did, for once, announce a chorus, and later when the song’s heartbeat hiccuped into the classic “Be My Baby” pattern. Contrastingly, the 11-minute single “Thinking of a Place” unwinds into a lush, long portion without drums. When the song’s main groove snaps back in, it’s like a magician pulling off a reveal—scarily sudden, but also smooth. Such moments show that through the ever-pretty, ever-nostalgic haze of his arrangements, Granduciel wants to keep the senses and the mind awake.
Does music this visceral need to mean anything? Granduciel sings in a pleasing but unvarying rasp, and he likes obvious rhymes: “All my waiting was in vain / I walked alone in pain / Through an early morning rain,” etc. Generally the songs tell of striving, endlessly, for bliss—in another person, in a place, or in one’s self. So if it seems on-the-nose for him to sing of a sky “painted in a wash of indigo” or of “somewhere they can make it rain diamonds,” it’s worth remembering that music, across eras, has often been about envisioning paradise through sound. He’s executing that mission with extreme care, finesse, and—most remarkably—consistency. The best passages of A Deeper Understanding are shot through with sadness simply because they eventually have to end, but with this high, you can expect another wave soon.


For years now, America’s best TV drama has consistently been one of its least watched. With Halt and Catch Fire now in its fourth and final season, ratings don’t really matter anymore, especially since the show is airing on AMC on Saturday nights (an audience dead zone if there ever was one). What’s important is that the series gets to complete its story, and will likely be discovered as a hidden gem on some streaming service once it’s finished and easy to binge. That’s because Halt has told the best, most definitive account of the birth of the computer age, the rise of the internet, and Silicon Valley’s never-ending cycle of creative booms and busts—and it’s done so without losing its grasp on the people in the eye of the storm.
The show’s creators Christopher Cantwell and Christopher C. Rogers have spun this tale while radically reinventing it each season, finding original ways to approach the familiar tale of two technology revolutions (the rise of personal computing and the dotcom boom). Beginning in Dallas’s Silicon Prairie in 1983 and now concluding in the Bay Area circa 1994, the show has chronicled the invention of the operating system, online gaming, social networks, internet browsers, and now (in Season 4, which kicked off with its first two episodes Saturday) the first search engines. With each shift, the series captures the thrill, and existential horror, that comes from creating something new and then trying to make it profitable.
Halt and Catch Fire’s Sad Ballad of the Future
Halt and Catch Fire’s tremendous third season saw its characters pull up roots to pilot ambitious projects in California, like eager prospectors going west for gold, and suffering creative and personal hardships as a result. Joe MacMillan (Lee Pace) is the show’s take on a Don Draper-type iconoclast, someone who endures in the industry by mixing egomaniacal magnetism with a charismatic form of bullying. Last season, he tried to convert his messianic image into a genuine push to create an early web browser, recognizing the impending importance of the world wide web. Prickly genius coder Cameron Howe (Mackenzie Davis) and her business partner Donna Clark (Kerry Bishé) looked to turn their indie games company Mutiny into a name brand with venture-capital funding.
But business, as it often does, got in the way of everyone’s starry-eyed ideals, and the show made a drastic time jump to a less-secure future (the early 1990s), where Donna and Cameron (whose partnership had been the emotional spine of the show) had an irreconcilable falling out, and Joe found himself tortured and alone after years of trying to have everything his way. In Season 4, Halt leaps forward again, thrusting us into the mid-’90s, where the internet is no longer a hobbyist fad but a crucial consumer market, and investors are working to figure out the best way to translate it to the widest audience possible.
Joe is now in business with Donna’s ex-husband Gordon Clark (Scoot McNairy), a grumpy engineer with a knack for encouraging the ambitions of those around him. Together, they run an internet service provider that’s fending off competition from bigger players like America Online. Gordon, as usual, is happy staying put in the business he’s built for himself. Meanwhile, Joe is busy digging for the next big thing, even writing the names of every website (there were only a few hundred in the mid-’90s) on Post-It notes in his basement, in hopes of detecting grander patterns like a deranged conspiracy theorist.
Joe’s original plan was to build a browser with Cameron, who is now a game designer disgusted by the violent, Mortal Kombat­-loving fanbase of her industry, but his project now resembles something people today take for granted: a search engine, a tool that can trawl through the deep recesses of the web and find whatever random piece of information you might be looking for. As usual, Halt and Catch Fire is less interested in the technical particulars of how such a thing would be designed. It’s more fascinated by creative sparks—what might drive Joe, a man seeking order in a world that has constantly upended his fantasies, to catalog the entire internet, all the world’s data, in a single place.
Quickly, Cameron is brought into Joe’s web of intrigue. In the season’s second episode, the two have a days-long conversation on the phone, including long periods of silence and sleep, where they wrestle with deep philosophical questions, chat inanely, and even play Doom together online, trying to figure out what inspired them to work together in the first place and how they can rekindle that partnership. Their on-off romance is one of the show’s ongoing arcs, but its tempestuousness serves as a perfect metaphor for Silicon Valley’s habit of falling in love with a new tech trend and just as quickly abandoning it—a cycle Joe and Cameron seemed cursed to repeat.
Working against them is Donna, once Cameron’s ally in the world of indie computing, now a shark-like businesswoman in venture capital who finds herself on a parallel path to her former friend. Her efforts to create a search engine are reminiscent of those of so many gargantuan tech companies—cobbling together algorithms and proprietary pieces of code to create a functional new juggernaut backed with blue-chip investments, a Goliath ready to take down Joe and Cameron’s lovingly crafted invention.
It’s a story that should be familiar to anyone who’s ever read one word about the success of Microsoft or wondered whatever happened to once dominant pieces of software like Netscape Navigator. Halt and Catch Fire succeeds by making its tech narrative not a dry history lesson, but rather a battle of wills between four very flawed, compelling characters, each possessed of the kinds of manic ambition and tendency toward self-destruction that make for the best television drama. If you haven’t gotten to Halt and Catch Fire in this heavily programmed era of peak TV, you’re forgiven—but it’s not too late to catch up for what should be a marvelous sendoff.


I had written five books for Scott Moyers, following him as he moved from editing jobs at Scribner’s to Random House and then to Penguin Press. We worked well together, and in part thanks to his strong editing hand, my last three books had been bestsellers.
So what happened when I finished years of work and sent him the manuscript of my sixth book stunned me. In fact, I was in for a series of surprises.
They began about 18 months ago, after I emailed to him that manuscript, a dual appreciation of Winston Churchill and George Orwell. When I had begun work on it, in 2013, some old friends of mine thought the subject was a bit obscure. Why would anyone care how two long-dead Englishmen, a conservative politician and a socialist journalist who never met, had dealt with the polarized political turmoil of the 1930s and the world war that followed? By 2016, as people on both the American left and right increasingly seemed to favor opinion over fact, the book had become more timely.
But two weeks after I sent him the manuscript, I received a most unhappy e-mail back from him. “I fear that the disconnect over what this book should be might be fundamental,” Scott wrote to me, clearly pained to do so. What I had sent him was exactly the book he had told me not to write. He had warned me, he reminded me, against writing an extended book review that leaned on the weak reed of themes rather than stood on a strong foundation of narrative. I had put the works before the two men, he told me, and that would not do.
There was more. But in short, he pissed all over it. It was not that he disliked it. It was that he fucking hated it. I was taken aback—I had enjoyed the process of researching and writing the book. So, I had expected, a reader would too. No, Scott said, the way you’ve done this doesn’t work.
Writing in Someone Else’s World
Partly, I was crushed. But even more, I was puzzled. How could I have been so off in my perception of my manuscript? This wasn’t a hurried work of a few months. For three years, I had steeped myself in Churchill, Orwell, and their times, reading hundreds of books, which were scattered in piles across the floor of my office in the attic of my home in Maine. The biggest of the piles was books by Churchill himself. The second biggest was diaries, memoirs, and collected letters by British politicians and writers of the 1930s and ’40s.
Scott followed up with a lengthy letter—I think it was about 10 pages—detailing his concerns. I live on an island on the coast of Maine. I received the letter the day before a major snowstorm. A few hours after it arrived, several old trees along the road downed power lines, taking the internet with them.
Cut off from email and other off-island communication, I spent that snowy day reading and rereading Scott’s letter. The next morning dawned crystalline and blue. I climbed into my pickup truck and drove slowly over 15 miles of icy backroads to the library in Blue Hill, on the mainland, where the internet was still working. The whole world was sparkling. I sat down in the sun-splashed reading room of the library, powered up my laptop, and sent a note to my literary agent, Andrew Wylie, asking him if Scott, being so negative, actually wanted to back out of the book altogether. If he really wanted out, then I didn’t want to dive into the job of rewriting it.
Andrew’s reply came flying back, within minutes. (He may be the world’s fastest email replier.) He also knows Scott well. No, Andrew replied, Scott is just trying to emphasize to you how much work you have ahead of you to make this a good book. I found this reassuring. I even felt contented, for reasons I don’t completely understand. If Scott was still on board, well then so was I.
* * *
I spent the next five months, from mid-January to mid-June of 2016, redoing the whole book, rethinking it from top to bottom.
I began by taking his letter and his marked-up version of the manuscript with me to Austin, Texas, where my wife and I were taking a break in February from the long Maine winter. (Austin is a great town for live music, food, and hiking—and its winter feels to me like Maine in the summer.) I sat in the backyard and read and reread Scott’s comments. I didn’t argue with them. Rather, I pondered them. If he thinks that, I would ask myself, how can I address the problem? I underlined sections. At one point he pleaded in a note scrawled in the margin, “If you would only defer to the narrative, you could get away with murder.” I liked that comment so much I typed it across the top of the first page of the second draft, so I would see it every morning as I began my day’s work.   
The next surprise, about three weeks into this process, was coming to realize, over the days of thinking about it, that Scott’s criticisms were spot-on. I saw that if I followed his suggestions and revamped the book, with a new structure that emphasized biography and told the stories of the two men chronologically, the book would be much better. I emailed a note to Scott. “You are right,” it said. This wasn’t so much an apology as the beginning of the next phase of work.   
“Only a good writer would be able to say that,” he graciously responded.
Next, I disassembled the manuscript. Writing is a lot like carpentry, hammering and sawing and sanding. In this case, I was like a builder taking down a house I had just finished constructing. Scott had persuaded me that my blueprint was off, so I disassembled the whole thing. I stacked my lumber, bricks, window frames, glass, and cement. And then, after a couple more weeks of taking notes on how to do it differently, writing signposts on my new blueprint, I set to reconstruction.
I dug a new foundation, lining it with solid chronology. I wrote a second note to myself at the top of the manuscript: “If it is not chronological, why not?” That is, I would permit myself on occasion to deviate from the march of time, but I needed to articulate a pretty strong reason before doing so.
That brought the third surprise. Making the text follow the order of events was easier than I had expected—and it made more sense. Anecdotes that I had thought could only go in one place, in a discussion of a theme, actually would fit easily into other places, where they fit in time. In fact, they tended to work better when they appeared in the order in which they had occurred in reality. They often slipped in seamlessly, not needing to be hammered in with an introduction or explanation. Like a board prepared for a well-constructed floor, they just slid into place.
The fourth surprise was how much I came to enjoy the rewrite job. In fact, during that time of redrafting, from winter through spring and into summer in 2016, my wife often remarked on how happy I was. When it was time for me to make lunch—usually I’d defrost a homemade soup—I’d come down from my attic office with a smile on my face.
Over the following months the new version of the book fell into place. I still needed help from my “critical readers”—trusted friends with writing skills and different perspectives who also read the manuscript at about this time.
One old friend, a seasoned magazine editor, basically told me that Scott was entirely right: Get out of the way and let the stories tell themselves. Another reader, a San Francisco lawyer specializing in software and communications law, pushed me to patch the holes in the logic of some of my arguments. Two journalist friends, one a writer on secondary education, the other an editor at Politico, helped me think my way through to a new conclusion that wove together the strands of the book—and, oddly enough, took me to Martin Luther King Jr.’s “Letter From Birmingham City Jail,” an essay solidly in the tradition of Orwell’s best commentary. All of them made me think through again what I was trying to say, and why I thought that was important.
In the process, I went back and reread a lot of Churchill and even more of Orwell. The latter was the tougher nut. Churchill’s subject ultimately always was himself, so he lends himself to narrative. Orwell’s subject was the world, so he gave away little of himself in his essays and novels, and not even much in his diaries. In his daily entries there, he was more likely to note the health of his chickens than he was that of his wife, who would die of cancer at an early age, during World War II. But with time I learned to read better between Orwell’s lines. I also went back to the works of Malcolm Muggeridge and other intellectuals and literary journalists of mid-20th century Britain for more context. I think I found what I needed. It felt like good, honest work, like I had not only rebuilt that house but had used an improved design that made it more durable, and easier to use.   
* * *
I sent the new manuscript to Scott in June of 2016, a bit over a year ago. This time he loved it.
In July, when I was in New Haven for a few days, I took the train down to New York’s Pennsylvania Station to talk to him, to do some planning, and to celebrate. We met at an ancient steakhouse in midtown Manhattan. It was a summertime Monday, and the joint was empty. Hundreds of clay pipes hung from the low ceiling, one of them supposedly belonging to Abraham Lincoln.
Over our Caesar salads with sliced steak, I asked Scott why he had been so rough on me the previous winter. “Sometimes my job is to be an asshole,” he explained with equanimity. I wasn’t startled at this. At one point on an earlier book, when I told him how stressed I was feeling, he had replied, a bit airily, I thought, “Oh, every good book has at least one nervous breakdown in it.”
Near the end of our lunch, Scott offered one more wise observation about the writing process: “The first draft is for the writer. The second draft is for the editor. The last draft is for the reader.”
At that lunch, he knew how grateful I was to him. Churchill and Orwell: The Fight for Freedom is a much better book for his powerful intervention. In retrospect, that first draft was herky-jerky and sometimes portentous. It also frequently was hard to read without rewarding the reader for making the effort. The final version, published in May of this year, pops right along.
That’s not just me who says so. Many reviewers have commented on how cleanly the book is written. So, contrary to my initial expectation, the hardest book for me to write became the easiest one to read. Readers seem to agree, recently putting this dual biography of two long-dead Englishmen on the list of bestsellers in hardcover nonfiction.
Most art has a public face—music is played, paintings are displayed, plays are enacted, movies are filmed and often watched by groups. Books tend to be more private, from one person’s act of writing to another’s act of reading. Most mysterious of all is the hidden middle stage, the offstage act of editing. Yet sometimes it can make all the difference.


This post contains spoilers through Season 7, Episode 6 of Game of Thrones.
Jon Snow is about to die. Again. This time, his imminent death is coming at the bony hands of the army of the dead: Jon, attacked by wights, has plunged into an icy lake. Torn at by zombies and closed in on by frigid waters, he seems to be done for. And, yet—here is a spoiler that, if you have been watching Game of Thrones, will be not much of a spoiler at all—Jon survives. Maybe because he’s a really strong swimmer who is not at all weighed down by the layers of animal pelts he had donned specifically for their heft. Maybe because of the Targaryen fire that warms his blood. Maybe because his soul is buoyed by his growing romance with his aun—
Is Game of Thrones on Thin Ice?
But we are not meant to question such things. Nor are we meant to question it when, during the epic battle between the Night King and the Guardians of the Known World, Tormund gets saved, at the last second, by the Hound. Or when Benjen gallops into the battle at the very last minute, sacrificing himself to the zombie-horde so that Jon might ride again, even though both of them totally could have fit on that raft horse. Or when Daenerys herself arrives on the scene at precisely the right moment: to save the remaining Guardians, Jon, finally, included.
In some ways, those moments are simply continuations of approaches Game of Thrones has long taken in its storytelling: plot twists, destabilized time, a steadfast faith in magic—the kinds of powers that merge the world of the show and the world beyond it. The kinds that come from authors, and showrunners, and the surly demands of narrative. More and more, though, as the show approaches its final season, it has been losing its reassurance of narrative control. Its seams are showing. Its stories are cracking like so much zombie-ice. We are not meant to question—this is a fictional and fantastical world, after all—and yet it’s becoming more and more difficult not to. So while the show’s current season is establishing mysteries about sororicide, and incest, and zombie-dragons, it’s also establishing a broader one: Does this story still know what it’s doing? Will viewers’ longstanding faith in it, in the end, be rewarded?
* * *
Game of Thrones is in many ways a show about faith: in gods, in others, in oneself. But it also demands, as any such show will, another kind of faith—in storytelling. In authorship. In the universe that is being constructed as a setting for the other things—a universe full of its own authors. Who knows, in this world, things others do not? Who decides how the stories will play out, and how the games will be played? The Lord of Light, and the Three-Eyed Raven, and Bran, and Hodor, and time travel, and resurrections, and dragons, and magic: Their presence has made Game of Thrones not just a work of fantasy, but also, in its way, a work of logic. This is a universe with its own rules to be obeyed—and, for the audience, its own disbeliefs to be suspended. Wildfire works as a weapon because, in the show’s world, it literally works as a weapon. Bran becomes the Three-Eyed Raven because we watch him in the transformation. Arya has become “no one,” we understand, because we have watched her become so many someones.
That so little of this has seemed the tautology it is has been a credit to the show’s execution: Game of Thrones, with the help of its hefty budget, has been exceptionally good at the art of universe-construction. It has been fantasy that has, against all odds, made sense. What is dead may never die has long been an element of the show; the remarkable thing is that, for the most part, the death-fleeing has seemed a natural extension of the order of things rather than a violation of it.
And yet here are some things that happened on Sunday’s show: Viewers learned that Arya carries around a set of rubbery death-masks in a tasteful leather satchel. And that ravens can travel, seemingly, at the speeds of turbo-jets. And that Gendry, on the ground, can somehow do the same. And that the army of the dead is as resourceful as it is populous, apparently, able as it was, after the battle was fought, to procure the massive chains with which to remove a dead dragon from icy waters. Maybe there’s a Home Depot conveniently located next to the Arby’s off the I(ce)-95?
In some ways, sure, all that is simply an extension of the disbelief-suspension that has always been a requirement of the show—the deus-ex-machina twists that have been presented not as easy solutions to narrative problems, but rather as evidence of the show’s cosmic surefootedness. Again and again, fate, which is to say the show’s authors, collectively, intercedes. The battle is lost—until Stannis makes a surprise appearance. Arya’s cover will be blown by Ser Amory—until Jaqen H’ghar kills him the second before he can tell her secrets. Daenerys and her small band of loyal advisors are doomed on Meereen, enclosed on by enemies—until Drogon shows up to save them, just in the nick of time. Jaime, in the line of dragon fire, is at the last minute pushed into a river by Bronn—and, then, rather than sinking to the bottom, as one might expect given the Kingslayer’s clothing (armor) and prosthetic (a hand made of gold), he survives by means unknown. Showrunners are their own kinds of gods; they tell their own kinds of truths.
But, now, winter has come. The series is coming to a close. The time for resolution is here. And the show has established, at this point, many more questions than answers. Is Arya still Arya, or someone—something—else? Will Bran, notably absent in Sunday’s episode, provide an as-yet-unseen salvation? Will the White Walker dragon breathe fire, or something else? Will the battle that will inevitably ensue be the final song of fire and ice? Is Jon Snow, infallible and invincible, the Drowned God? Will he and Daenerys—“Dany”—join the long line of coupled-off Targaryens?
They’re enticing questions. But “Beyond the Wall,” on Sunday, did not bode well for their answers. This is a season, after all, that has at times seemed almost overly aware of Thrones’s success as a cultural phenomenon. The Ed Sheeran cameo. The many, many meme-friendly moments. The plots that seem designed to get from one spectacular set piece to the next. As my colleague Spencer Kornhaber put it, “The fuzziness with time just adds to the impression that this is a story driven by coincidence and expedience rather than logic.” And it suggests a certain sloppiness in a show that has otherwise been so precise in its world-building—a sloppiness that asks other questions: Will Game of Thrones keep jumping sharks? Will it nuke fridges? Will it take the good faith it has built up over nearly seven seasons and squander it? Could it, in the end, go the way of Lost, its myths busted, its key questions unresolved?
Or: Is the show simply building, with all its moments of easy absurdity, to some final, pivotal plot twist?
Sunday’s grand battle followed in one of the traditions Game of Thrones has established over its seven seasons: It provided an epic event not to close out the season, but as a capper to the season’s penultimate episode. Next week’s finale will ostensibly yield, if past formulas are any indication, an episode that will pick up the pieces and start to make sense of the new world. It might provide another epic battle, cannily staged and stunningly shot. It might provide another extension of the question fans have been asking since those squawking dragons first crawled over Daenerys’s sooty shoulders at the end of the show’s first season: What if the Night King gets one? What then? We’ll soon find out. And we can safely assume that Jon Snow, saved by fate and fortune and the workings of a show that needs him, will be there to find out along with us.


Every week for the seventh season of Game of Thrones, three Atlantic staffers will discuss new episodes of the HBO drama. Because no screeners were made available to critics in advance this year, we'll be posting our thoughts in installments.
Spencer Kornhaber: In their post-episode interview with HBO, Game of Thrones showrunners David Benioff and D.B. Weiss said that they plot the show by mapping out the big moments they want each installment to end with. This week’s ending was as big as they come: A dead dragon was dredged from an icy pond and reanimated with evil energy. If you don’t get a dark thrill out of seeing Viserion open his scaly lid to reveal a blue marble, there’s no point in watching Game of Thrones at all.
Game of Thrones: No Choice at All
But Benioff and Weiss’s emphasis on building the show primarily for payoffs is taking a toll on the quality of Game of Thrones in general—consistent logic seems to drive the action less than it once did. You could feel the strain throughout “Beyond the Wall,” this season’s battle-heavy blockbuster. To be sure, the cinematography and effects did deliver the goods we’ve come to expect from the previous blow-outs like “Blackwater” and “Battle of the Bastards.” But sitting through the episode, it was hard not to relate to the wight that Jon & co. bagged: trapped, disoriented, and frequently screaming in frustration.
It didn’t help that the premise of the night’s big plot line was built on a foundation brittler than a frozen lake. The plan to go grab a zombie and present it to Cersei relies on the notion that Cersei might well be persuaded to band with her enemies to fight a common foe. But by now, viewers know better than to expect a smidge of concern for the greater good from her. So should Tyrion and Jon, the architects of the plan. If Cersei’s going to cease hostilities with Daenerys, it’ll only be so she can stab her in the back, not because she’s been impressed by a screechy corpse in a bag.
The show did try to acknowledge the insanity of the mission in the scene between Daenerys and Tyrion, the season’s umpteenth dissection of the tension between waging war with brutal effectiveness or righteous care. Would-be heroes are always going off and doing stupid things, complained Dany (can I still call her that?). But if she really thought Jon’s mission was stupid, why did she sign off on it in the first place? We get it, she’s inwardly conflicted. But the way she pings between trusting Tyrion’s cleverness and then questioning his motives before flying off to use her dragons to kill feels more determined by the needs of the overarching plot than anything we’ve come to understand about Dany herself. Like the Northern Lords that Sansa fretted about to Littlefinger, Khaleesi has become a weathervane.
This was an extra-long episode, but it’s worth noting that it wouldn’t have been so extra-long with all the exposition foisted upon the snowy expedition. The scenes of chitchat between Jon, Gendry, Tormund, Thoros, Beric, Sandor, and Jorah felt like a remedial refresher on the backstories of some characters who’ve been out of the spotlight for some time. Tormund—dispensing advice about surviving both the cold and lack of mating material—was the star entertainer of the road trip. But when he spoke of making big babies with Brienne, I got worried. Nothing says a character is about to die in battle like them planning for a happy future.
Fortunately for Tormund fans, and sadly for Brotherhood Without Banners fans if such people exist, the sacrificial soldier of the group turned out to be Thoros. (Well, him and the various expendable footmen who went strangely unacknowledged by any of the dialogue.) The fatal encounter with the rotted bear made for one of the spooky highlights of the night, easing both viewers and characters into the land of the dead. I’m curious why, though, the writers decided to have Thoros survive his initial wounds only to freeze later. It’s not like we need reminding of how cold it is out there.
In any case, the conceit of having the living end up besieged by the dead on an island in the middle of a lake was intriguing—a way to make this episode’s violent climax different from all the previous ones. But the execution of this inherently far-fetched set-up forced some nagging, distracting questions as the action unfolded. Like: Might not the wights build a bridge of bodies a la ants crossing water or World War Z’s undead scaling a wall? And didn’t any of them have projectiles—rocks, big chunks of ice, skulls, spears capable of killing dragons?
Also: How long were our guys shivering on that island, anyway? Plenty has already been written about how Thrones has lately become more liberal in its use of the fast-forward button when it comes to travel. Some pace-quickening is understandable, given how much story there is to get through. Still, it was hard to avoid a sense of whiplash when Gendry ran to send a raven and Dany flew her dragons north of the Wall within the space of a few minutes of screentime. The fuzziness with time just adds to the impression that this is a story driven by coincidence and expedience rather than logic. The dragons, or the undead fire-wielding uncle, will always show up at exactly the right moment.
There’s no denying, though, the fun of seeing those dragons descending on the dead. Instead of conveying carnage and tragedy as when Dany attacked the Lannister army, this was a downright beautiful portrayal of her firepower—which is fair, as no one is mourning the dead getting deader. And how freaky was that sequence of Viserion getting javelined by the Night King? The music cut out; dragon blood bloomed; the shot of the dead beast sliding into the water is one that will stay with me. In the moment, Emilia Clarke made a memorable choice to play her reaction as shocked blankness. After the battle, in the scene of her standing on The Wall and the scene of her bonding with the newly obedient Jon, the depth of her grief was plenty clear.
As for the other thread of the night: The Winterfell narrative was no less frustrating than the north-of-The-Wall stuff, and it didn’t even have the payoff of dragon fire. It’s true that the sisterly resentment between Arya and Sansa is particularly epic, and yes, Arya has become colder and stranger because of everything she’s been through. But on a fundamental level, I don’t buy that Arya is the person we see here: supremely uncharitable to her sister and easily manipulated by a man who everyone knows to be a manipulator. Then again, when she handed Sansa her dagger it may have hinted that her maniacal pose has more complexity to it than it seemed for much of this episode.
What do you think, David—is grief over a dragon blinding me to this episode’s virtues? And what’s with all the near-drownings of major characters this season?
David Sims: I’m sick of all the near-drownings on this show but particularly any involving Jon Snow, a character who has already died and been brought back to life, which makes any effort to wring tension out of his potential fate all the more insulting. But hey, this was a fairly insulting episode, one that piled frustrating, illogical twists atop a plot (Jon’s quest beyond the wall) that already felt tenuous.
Last week, I defended the silliness of the “let’s kidnap a zombie” caper as a fanciful decision rooted in character work—we understand why each of these bandits is up there, serving the larger causes they’ve always fought for. This week, that all came quickly crumbling down when it became clear Jon’s whole plan was to cause as big a ruckus as possible, then hope for not one, but two dei ex machina (don’t forget poor Benjen) to bail them out of their self-made disaster. All this to try and sway the mind of Cersei, who has never shown the slightest interest in serving the realm beyond expanding her own grip on power. As you said, Spencer, it quickly became apparent that the episode was geared toward one big, memorable image—zombie dragon—and it didn’t care how much nonsense we had to endure to get it.
Now, I’ll admit, I like the zombie dragon. The White Walkers of Game of Thrones have always felt worthy of a screaming Led Zeppelin guitar solo every time they appear onscreen, and what better way to mark that than by giving them an ice-breathing dragon? But Daenerys’s loss felt too forced, too much like behind-the-scenes scorekeeping to keep us interested in next season. Three dragons seem too easy for taking down a horde of wights? Well, how about two regular dragons versus one ice dragon? Now the scales are a little better balanced.
The other big thing this episode was building toward was that romantic moment between Daenerys and Jon. She should have been berating him for his foolishness, but instead there was obvious tenderness between the pair as he convalesced and she pledged to fight the White Walkers with him to avenge her lost baby Viserion. Again, I understand nudging these two characters together, but there was nothing emotional about this epic confrontation on the ice and no real reason for Daenerys to suddenly feel closer to Jon afterwards. Thrones is suddenly going through the motions and hoping the big-budget action extravaganzas will distract from that. They do, to an extent—I sure liked watching that dragon boil those zombies—but it’s not really the show I signed up for.
There have been instances in both this and the previous season where George R. R. Martin’s guiding hand has felt particularly lacking, and it’s usually for big climactic moments like this, the kind of easy sequences Martin has always eschewed. Sometimes it works better than others—Cersei’s detonation of the Sept was pretty hard to beat—but any time a major plot twist happens, I immediately find myself wondering if it’s really part of Martin’s plan for the future books. For years, fans have wondered who the third “head of the dragon” will be—if Daenerys and Jon are two potential allies, who would ride the third dragon alongside them? The show’s decision to kill one dragon off is an economical way of handling that mystery, but I doubt that Martin is going for anything quite so simple.
Like many an epic episode of Thrones, this hour-plus saga gave us very little else to pay attention to, since so much running time was devoted to Jon and the snow patrol doing battle in the wilds. So the only other major plot point was Arya’s confrontation with Sansa, which was so abysmally written I started fantasizing about outlandish future plot twists like “The Waif is somehow wearing Arya’s face” (don’t worry, I know she isn’t really). If the show is trying to make a point about Arya being turned into a cold-blooded psychopath over the years, it’s doing about as ham-fisted and poor a job as I could imagine.
The entire point of Arya’s arc last year—with the Braavosi theater company and her disinterest in cold-blooded murder—was that her empathetic spirit had not yet died out. And while I know Arya’s thirst for vengeance is strong, and her childhood grudge against Sansa was a big deal in Season One, her sudden irrationality on this issue was just eye-rollingly one-dimensional. If she cares so much about her family, she’d do better to stick up for her sister rather than blaming Joffrey’s psychotic violence on her. If this is something the show wants to pursue long-term, then it’s going to be quite the frustrating viewing experience. Then again, maybe that’s just classic penultimate-episode blues, and all of the reasons for these machinations will become clear in next week’s finale. Until then, I’m as baffled as one of Littlefinger’s patsies. Lenika, can you shed any light?
Lenika Cruz: Speaking of light, I want to go back first to the conversation between Beric Dondarrion—who here looked very Westerosi Walter White—and Jon Snow, the two people on the show we know have come back from the dead. Both confronted the inscrutability of the Lord of Light’s desires, something followers of R’hllor have long acknowledged. “What’s the point in serving a god if none of us knows what he wants?” Jon said, making me for a second think he was talking instead about the story’s authors rather than some mystical fiery deity. Beric admitted to not knowing the exact purpose for their resurrection but nonetheless suggested he at least knew what he was fighting for: people who can’t defend themselves. “Maybe we don’t need to understand any more than that. Maybe that’s enough,” he told Jon. Being of the stock of heroes and martyrs, Jon instantly agreed.
This episode’s chitchat didn’t bother me as much as it did you, Spencer—in part because the remedial refresher in the characters’ backstories was helpful, but also because I found these pairings somewhat enlightening. (I should add here that much of what irked you both about “Beyond the Wall,” also irked me, but having had a little time to think on this, I’m going to try and push back a little on some of your assessments.) Jon and Jorah finally got to talk properly about their fathers and their own relationships with each of the dead men. They spoke of the deep injustice of the deaths of Jeor Mormont and Ned Stark, two men who lived lives of honor and yet who met undignified ends: the late Lord Commander slain by Night’s Watch mutineers (like Jon himself) and Ned Stark on the executioner’s block for a treason he didn’t commit.
Other conversations, too, returned to that favorite Thrones theme of yore: skepticism of the romantic hero trope. Dany (sorry, I still gotta call her that) and Tyrion spoke, with little subtlety, about how heroes “do stupid things, and they die.” Thoros lived long enough after suffering his zombie-bear-inflicted wounds to destroy Jorah’s impression of him as “the bravest man I ever saw” and admit it was drunkenness that led to his legendary charging of the breach at Pyke with his flaming sword, not courage. Tormund accepted Jon’s explanation for Gendry’s presence (“he’s a good fighter”), saying, “Smart people don’t come up here looking for the dead.” And then the fire-kissed wildling, who lauded Mance Rayder as “a brave man, a proud man,” implicitly gave Jon permission to bend the knee to Daenerys to avoid the slaughter of his people (“How many of his people died for his pride?” Tormund said of Mance, apparently coming around to the thinking of Ned Stark when he traded his honor for the lives of his children.)
All these takedowns of heroism—as a trait often indistinguishable from foolishness, drunkenness, vanity—made the final showdown that much more disappointing on a larger narrative level, I’ll give you that. (As far as spectacle and effects go, it was terrific.) On one hand, you could argue that all these stupid heroes getting out alive, after the show once again heavily debated the stupidity of their mission, is subversive. And I know Thoros’s death, and the impending death of Melisandre, is supposed to weaken the audience’s expectation that, if someone important dies, someone can easily bring them back. But the fact that these men (minus the faceless expendables) were delivered at precisely the moment they needed deliverance—from a plot perspective—completely undermined the show’s apparent efforts at self-awareness. Regardless of what Benioff and Weiss say, all the head-scratching set-up and predictable dragon/Benjen ex machina wasn’t enough to justify Ice Viserion on its own, as cool as that image was. To me, the fact that no major characters lost their lives, or worse, exposed the insincerity of all that “heroes are dumb” dialogue. Comeuppance, in the world of Thrones, would have been something like quintessential tortured hero Jon Snow being captured and turned into a White Walker, not Coldhands swooping in to save the day for another foolhardy Stark.
It’s worth bringing up Bran here to connect things back to the Winterfell intrigue—the new Three-Eyed Raven (insert college-freshman-drug-use jokes here) has been woefully underused, to the point where the only explanation is that connecting the dots would neutralize too much dramatic irony and give the writers less plot to play with. Which is a terrible reason, of course. So, even acknowledging that a lot of the Sansa-Arya tension could be resolved by Bran putting them both straight—he has already proven to each of them that he’s legit—I’m going to try to argue that this particular thread isn’t quite as unbelievable as you think it is, David and Spencer. Arya’s arc last season was, indeed, about how she hadn’t fully lost her ability to empathize—but that was before the Waif killed her, before she stole a bunch of faces from the House of Black and White, before she murdered all the Freys, before she had to confront the cold reality that the castle she grew up in is a very different place now.
Before her return to Winterfell, Arya was still clinging to the piece of her that was still a child—the girl crouching by the foot of the statue of Baelor when her father was dragged before a jeering crowd (the “Beyond the Wall” director, Alan Taylor, helmed that episode, too), the girl who loved her direwolf, the girl who hid away the sword her brother gave her and never relinquished her name. For all her traveling and training, Arya has been forged by much different fires than the ones that made the steely and strong new Lady of Winterfell. Arya knows how to manipulate, yes, but I worry that she thinks too highly of her abilities to sneak and kill—the mindset and techniques that helped her survive and avenge when surrounded by enemies might not so quickly melt away, even in the relative safety of her childhood home. What looks like cunning and strength in one context can quickly become hubris and delusions of invincibility in another.
If we take this subplot at face value, it’s proof that the weapons each sister had to hone to stay alive to this point are vastly different; trained at each other, these weapons could prove deadly. After all, Arya is behaving much like the other tyrants Sansa has known—brandishing a knife, threatening to cut her up, forcing her to keep quiet or be destroyed. My first thought, David, was that Littlefinger is hoping to raise Sansa’s hackles enough to call Brienne to her aid, hopefully sparking a fight between her and Arya and using one to eliminate the other. Why he’s doing this, knowing Bran is squirreled away in some room or chilling in the Godswood, is beyond me.
I think overall, this will be one of the more polarizing episodes in Thrones history. Every viewer now is having to make a calculation about how much lax storytelling to forgive, considering the following: It’s not the creators’ fault that Martin hasn’t finished his books; there are just seven episodes left; and the show will naturally accelerate as it nears the finish line. On one end of the spectrum will be those who are perfectly content, after years of painful reversals and twists, to root for the “good guys” to stay good, and to “win” in the end, whatever that means. On the other end will be those who will feel profoundly betrayed if Game of Thrones, in its final hours, rejects the “no one is safe” attitude typified by game-changing moments like the Red Wedding. I’ll still give Season 7 until the finale to show me what kind of series this epic wants to be onscreen—if “Beyond the Wall” is any indicator, I’ll expect heated debate over the soul of Thrones until Season 8 returns (sigh) more than a year later.


Jerry Lewis, one of Hollywood’s most iconic and influential comedians with a decades-long legacy as an actor, writer, singer, director, and humanitarian, died on Sunday morning in Las Vegas at the age of 91. Beloved beginning in the late 1940s as a broad family entertainer with an unparalleled gift for physical comedy, Lewis was many things to many people over his 70-plus years in the industry. He was the zany instigator alongside Dean Martin’s straight man in their legendary comedy duo; he was a slapstick film star who pumped out movies dismissed by some as the lowest common denominator and embraced by others as high art; and he was a famously mercurial and acidic celebrity who devoted much of his star power to raising money for children suffering from muscular dystrophy.
Over his long career, Lewis never stopped working, even as his on-screen appearances dwindled. He sold out shows at the age of 90, and never lost grip of his specific, irascible sense of humor (as evidenced by this marvelously uncomfortable interview he gave The Hollywood Reporter last December). His star was at its apex in the ’50s and ’60s, but he did some of his most fascinating work in his later years, while many of his films, dismissed at the time as fluff, are now admired for the total artistic control Lewis exerted over them.
Jerry Lewis's Immortal Lip-Sync to a Trombone
Born in 1926 and raised in Newark, New Jersey, the son of Russian Jewish parents who both worked as entertainers in the Catskills, Lewis dropped out of high school in the tenth grade and began working as a comedian. In 1946, he formed a partnership with the 29-year-old nightclub singer Dean Martin and the two merged their acts, with Lewis performing elaborate physical-comedy skits alongside the crooning Martin, the former’s disheveled mania playing off the latter’s cool-guy attitude.
Their “sex and slapstick” routine, in which Lewis was the wisecracking id and Martin the smooth-talking ego, quickly got a radio show. They then made several appearances on television before jumping to Hollywood, starring in comedies like That’s My Boy, Sailor Beware, Jumping Jacks, The Caddy, Scared Stiff, and many more—17 in all, all released between 1949 and 1956. Almost as fast as they had risen to fame, Martin and Lewis broke up, ending their partnership in 1956 after years of creative strain, with Lewis reportedly looking to make more adventurous work, and Martin resentful of his increasingly diminished roles, and his partner’s controlling nature as an artist.
Lewis felt betrayed by the split, and though the two appeared together a few times on television, they didn’t fully reconcile until the late 1980s. Lewis occasionally spoke of his regret at the split—in that 2016 interview, referencing the time “when my partner was alive” as the happiest of his career. But he forged on as a solo act, making a string of films in the late ’50s with director Frank Tashlin (a Warner Bros. animator with a similar sensibility to Lewis) before taking on his directorial debut, 1960’s The Bellboy. A practically plotless, nearly dialogue-free ode to the slapstick heroes of Lewis’s youth like Laurel and Hardy, the film was a hit, and the beginning of Lewis’s most successful period as a filmmaker, one still revered (especially in France, where his reputation as a great auteur is unquestioned) as a landmark for movie comedies.
These films included The Ladies Man (1961), where he played a clumsy dweeb working at a ladies’ boarding house, and The Family Jewels (1965), in which he played seven roles. But the era is probably best remembered for The Nutty Professor (1963), a take on the Jekyll-Hyde story in which he plays the shy scientist Julius Kelp and his suave alter-ego Buddy Love. Lewis had taken the bifurcated comic chemistry of his Martin-and-Lewis act and put it into one body; the result is still extraordinary to watch. But as the studio system began to change in the late ’60s and the darker New Hollywood era began with the release of films like Bonnie and Clyde, Lewis struggled to adapt, with his broader material finding less and less of an audience.
His infamous attempt at a serious film about the business of clowning, the 1972 Holocaust drama The Day the Clown Cried (in which he played a washed-up clown who entertains Jewish children in Auschwitz), was such a disaster that it was never released and was tied up in an abyss of litigation for decades afterwards. Lewis would mock the effort himself, once saying, “I was embarrassed. I was ashamed of the work, and I was grateful that I had the power to contain it all, and never let anyone see it. It was bad, bad, bad. ... But I can tell you how it ends.” However, it became part of the legend of his diminished career in the ’70s, as he struggled to adapt to a grimmer, more subversive comedy world.
He returned to the big screen in 1981 with Hardly Working, which was a hit despite poor reviews; his next appearance, in Martin Scorsese’s 1983 satire The King of Comedy was much more acclaimed. As a famed talk-show host kidnapped by a disturbed fan (played by Robert De Niro), Lewis played off his public image in dark and fascinating ways, turning in the best performance of his later career—though the film was initially a box-office bomb before its reputation quickly grew. After that, he mostly made cameo appearances in television and film, as well as making his Broadway debut in Damn Yankees in 1995.
Through all his career highs and lows, Lewis was also a spokesperson for the Muscular Dystrophy Association, hosting an annual Labor Day weekend telethon to raise money for the cause of “Jerry’s Kids.” Over 44 years, he helped raise some $2 billion for the organization before he stopped hosting in 2010, the telethons’ effectiveness having been blunted by the internet age. Though unheralded by such organizations in the prime of his career, Lewis has been honored with the Academy’s Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award, a star on the Walk of Fame, a special tribute by the Cannes Film Festival, and France’s Legion of Honor as well as countless other lifetime achievement awards. He had six sons with his first wife Patti Palmer (whom he divorced in 1980), one of whom, Joseph, died in 2009; he is also survived by his second wife SanDee Pitnick and their daughter Danielle.


The inspiration for “Four Cypresses,” off Grizzly Bear’s spindly and hypnotic new album Painted Ruins, came one night when the singer Daniel Rossen returned to a Los Angeles apartment he’d been renting to find a man sleeping in his driveway. The next morning, he looked out the window and considered the thought of the man looking at the same thing as him: four cypresses in the neighbor’s yard. “The basis of the lyric, that’s where it came from—the idea of displacement, and homelessness, really,” Rossen told the podcast Song Exploder. “Trying to connect with someone else’s experience, trying to find shared experience with someone that’s having a much worse time than I am.”
Without that story, the song would be indecipherable lyrically, but still fascinating as music. It begins with an off-kilter groove of pinging keyboard and drums that, via the guiding help of a bassline, eventually steadies itself. Rossen—quavering, mannered, churchly—watches someone watch: “Instead of moving / You stared into the wall.” Guitars dive in, at first gentle then knotted; the arrangement grows and heaves, and Rossen sounds agitated. Eventually, though, there’s a sensation of free-falling into a passage of utter prettiness. Maybe that’s the moment when the sight-lines of narrator and subject meet. It’s certainly when all four band members, finally, pull in the same direction.
What's Wrong With Arcade Fire's Everything Now?
Grizzly Bear built a following from 2002 to 2012 by blending experimentalism, atmosphere, and audience-pleasing ambition in a way that typified the best of their era’s indie rock. The songs had common ingredients—two highly distinctive singers, textural guitar influenced by folk and jazz and flamenco, carnivalesque keyboard and classical woodwinds—but no common formula. When they wanted it to, their tinkering could achieve surprising catchiness, as with 2006’s “Knife” or 2009’s “Two Weeks.” But usually, they followed an internal logic, making music to get lost in.

The foursome has talked about their unease with how the music world has changed in the five years since their fourth album, Shields. With the rise of all-you-can-stream content overload and with the dwindling of robust online venues for fans to obsess and argue over rock music, how many people are going to have the patience for a new Grizzly Bear album? Painted Ruins at first seems to address this conundrum by grabbing attention with insistent, jittery rhythms that seem to promise exciting anthems. But the songs are actually less accessible than they initially appear. Painted Ruins just gets more jagged and inscrutable beneath its surface—though its craftsmanship is never less than impressive.
One thing that does seem clear is that the band is interested in the murky and instinctual way humans negotiate with one another. Singer Ed Droste has said that he doesn’t want his recent divorce to provide the lens through which the album is viewed, and that’s fair. The listener should apply their own context to subtly devastating songs like “Neighbors,” which seems to describe two people who live near each other but are unable or unwilling to achieve intimacy. Same goes for the kraut-rock thrum of “Mourning Sound,” which ascribes a sense of grief to the noises of the world Droste and Rossen sing about: dogs barking, trucks driving. Anyone who has had their perception reshaped by loss, which is to say most anyone, can relate in their gut.

The real drama of these songs is musical, in the push and pull between band members. Grizzly Bear call themselves a “democracy” and have said that over the years the recording process has become less frictional, more “adult.” Perhaps that explains the remarkable cohesion of Painted Ruins across a variety of dizzying arrangements and song structures. Through it all, the titular “paint” seems confined to shades of just a few colors—blue and grey, perhaps. To be sure, the album lacks the arresting tonal change-ups and sneaky hooks of their older material. But there’s a heap of satisfaction to be gained from giving oneself over to these songs’ carefully conjured moods, alternatively contemplative and grandiose. There’s even more fun to be had from zooming in on the fine details: the bird-squall guitars of the standout closer “Sky Took Hold,” the glum bass thumbing on “Wasted Acres,” the toy-box sounds of “Losing All Sense.”
Whenever it seems the band is getting too tangled up building altars for some indescribable muse, it straightens itself out, delivering the timeless pleasure of tension built and then released. The woozy, prog-touched “Three Rings” justifies its fussiness during a mid-song reverie on par with Radiohead’s most absorbing passages. When the queasy-making carousel of “Aquarian” starts to slow down as Rossen repeats “never reach the end,” you may well hope the ride goes on forever. Such moments of conflict giving way to peace comfortingly suggest, again and again, a resolution of the eternal struggle Droste spoke of: to connect.


Oprah Winfrey Is On a Roll (Again)
Jonathan Van Meter | Vogue
“Perhaps the main reason Oprah has returned to film acting is not just the recent uptick in the availability of actual roles for black women over 60, but also that she is being asked to return. … She has had a profound influence on our culture, not to mention our politics, given that many feel Barack Obama might not have made it across the finish line without her tireless support for him during his first presidential campaign, in 2007.”
Against Instagram
Josephine Livingstone | New Republic
“In exchange for knowing everything about us and monetizing our friendships, Facebook builds a shadowy and superpowerful corporate empire that may well propel its founder into the White House one day. So, Ingrid Goes West portrays Taylor Sloane as a narcissistic and shallow young woman whose life is filled with low-grade human connections. But it also points out that ‘Instagram Influencer’ is not a novel form. It’s that classic thing, the Sell Out.”
What the Departure of the Times’s Michiko Kakutani’s Means for Books Coverage
Boris Kachka | New York
“It’s usually overreaching to call any critic’s departure the end of an era, and Kakutani’s writing career isn’t over at all. … But an era really has ended. As chief book critic, Kakutani was inimitable and irreplaceable. (In fact the ‘chief critic’ position won’t be replaced.) She was the ‘voice of God,’ as one writer put it to me. … And as she grew into the job, she became more legend than human, less knowable the more we got to know her.”
Donald Glover and YA Twitter: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
Miyazaki, Lynch, Soderbergh—Why Are So Many Directors Un-Retiring?
Phil Hoad | The Guardian
“Miyazaki’s decision is symptomatic of times in which boundaries of old age have become fuzzy, and many people are motivated to continue working. Blithely announcing and then canceling retirement is currently all the rage in the wider film world—even among younger directors. … But it’s hard not to suspect that the old retirement hokey-cokey—in, out, in, out—is at least partly driven by PR reasoning.”
Her #OscarsSoWhite Campaign Changed How Hollywood Deals With Race. Now She’s Taking On HBO.
Sonia Rao | The Washington Post
“Since she cheekily tweeted ‘#OscarsSoWhite they asked to touch my hair’ in response to an all-white slate of Academy Award acting nominees in 2015, [April] Reign has been at the epicenter of the online conversation about representation in Hollywood. Her viral hashtag transformed the way we talk about entertainment, and she’s now using another to try to take down the Game of Thrones creators’ next TV show—all from her home office in Ellicott City, Maryland.”
In a Body-Positive Moment, Why Does Hollywood Remain Out of Step?
Brooks Barnes | The New York Times
“[Danielle] Macdonald must avoid a cycle that plays out over and over in moviedom. … A plus-size actress, almost always an unknown, lands the central role in a film and delivers a knockout performance. She is held up by producers and the entertainment news media as refreshing, long overdue evidence that Hollywood’s insistence on microscopic waistlines is ending. And then she is slowly but surely pushed into bit parts, many of which are defined by weight.”
The Books We Don’t Understand
Tim Parks | The New York Review of Books
“Once we have been hooked, then so long as the narrative moves along and intrigues us we won’t have too much trouble dealing with things that don’t make sense to us. On the contrary, any early perplexities will come across as exotic, part of the fascination. But eventually, with some novels at least, we will balk. After a hundred or two hundred pages, we will start to feel that this just doesn’t add up.”
Can Rotten Tomatoes Crush a Movie at the Box Office?
Sean Fennessey | The Ringer
“Rotten Tomatoes … finds itself trapped in a valley between its purpose and its power. To serve the fans with the insights of critics by way of the corporate stewardship of the very things being criticized feels like a tautological exercise. Instead, it’s a business plan—a growing business plan. As the film industry shrinks and reshapes itself, Rotten Tomatoes builds more loyalty and a bigger audience, and strikes more fear, founded or not.”
True Crime Gets Pretty
Laura Miller | Slate
“The authors of these new true crime/memoir hybrids … put themselves at the center of the story. … Each has a personal connection to the crime, or attempts to persuade her readers that it speaks to her inner life in some irresistible way. But they are writers and memoirists first. … They spend less time describing how they tracked down facts or pored over forensic reports than they do scrutinizing their own feelings, turning them over and over like heirlooms.”


Don’t Miss
An Indelible Image From Trump’s ‘On Both Sides’ Press Conference—Megan Garber dives into what it meant when the chief executive chose his own words over the ones that had been prepared for him.
The Business of Creativity
The Invisible Artists Behind Your Favorite Comics—Asher Elbein explores the world of colorists and letterers, who bring a silent medium to life.
Confessions of a Costume Curator—Kimberly Chrisman-Campbell explains that as a fashion historian, it’s her job to learn from other people’s clothes, which can be a challenging, messy, and often spooky task.
Film
The Trip to Spain Is Pure Comedy About Comfort Food—David Sims watches another hilarious entry in the faux-documentary series starring the comedians Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon.
Logan Lucky Is a Welcome Return to Movies for Steven Soderbergh—David Sims watches the charming caper film set at a NASCAR race, starring Channing Tatum, Adam Driver, Daniel Craig, and Riley Keough.
TV
Atypical Is So Close to Great—Sophie Gilbert thinks the Netflix series about a high-school senior with autism is warmhearted, funny, and totally inconsistent.
Game of Thrones: No Choice At All—David Sims, Lenika Cruz, and Megan Garber discuss ‘Eastwatch,’ the fifth episode of the seventh season.
Joking After Charlottesville—Megan Garber looks at Anthony Scaramucci’s appearance on The Late Show With Stephen Colbert, in which he was ready to laugh but the host and audience were not.
‘He Is Not a President’—Sophie Gilbert analyzes Seth Meyers and Jimmy Fallon’s damning critiques of Donald Trump in the aftermath of Charlottesville.
Would You Believe Jon Snow?—Megan Garber notices that Game of Thrones is exploring the life of another kind of monster this season: the alternative fact.
The Defenders: Marvel’s TV Universe Clicks Into Place—Sophie Gilbert enjoys the Netflix limited series that brings the gang together, to riotous results.
‘Let Us Eat Cake’: The Tina Fey Effect in 2017—Megan Garber asks: After Charlottesville, who should be speaking and who should be listening?
Music
The Dark Matter of America’s Foremost Musical Satirist—Conor Friedersdorf believes Randy Newman has done as much as any songwriter to anticipate the tragicomic place where the country finds itself.
Justin Bieber Has Another Question for the Pop World—Spencer Kornhaber says the singer’s shimmery new single “Friends” comes off as a gift to long-suffering fans, and as an attempt to further his hot streak.
Getting Hate Speech Off Music-Streaming Services—Spencer Kornhaber notes that Spotify has pulled a number of bands from its platform in yet another example of tech companies grappling with white supremacy.
Books
Beast Celebrates a Man’s Abrupt Return to Nature—Scott Beauchamp reviews Paul Kingsnorth’s novel, which builds on the ecological, humanist terrain of the writer’s previous work.
Art
The Follow-Up to Rain Room Is Brilliant and Unsettling—Sophie Gilbert visits Random International and Wayne McGregor’s + / - Human, an installation by way of Black Mirror.
Theater
A Play That Tests Ethical Questions in Real-Time—Sophie Gilbert attends The Majority, which quizzes its audience on hot-button issues to demonstrate how easily the shape of a query can alter its answer.


In a 2012 article published in the Public Opinion Quarterly, a group of researchers shared the results of a study they had done in the aftermath of the 2008 U.S. presidential election. The researchers, based on panels with young voters, found that the impression of Sarah Palin that Tina Fey had made famous on Saturday Night Live—“I can see Russia from my house!”—had changed the public’s feeling about the actual vice-presidential candidate. Fey’s jokes, the researchers suggested, had proven comedy’s power, especially in times of question and perhaps also in times of crisis, to shape people’s sense of the world. The jokes had woven themselves into the workings of American democracy. The researchers called it the Fey Effect.
On Thursday evening, the woman the effect was named for returned to Saturday Night Live, making a surprise appearance on the show’s Weekend Update: Summer Edition. Wearing a University of Virginia sweatshirt—she had graduated from the school in 1992—Tina Fey talked about the hatred on display in the place she loved, and the violence that had resulted from it. She talked about the American president’s reticence: his baffling but also not entirely baffling reluctance to use his bully pulpit to unequivocally criticize the bigots who had marched on Charlottesville. She did the thing that has been so crucial, and so frustratingly lacking in reflexivity, among those in positions of power: She named the hate groups, and she full-throatedly condemned them.
And then: Tina Fey ate cake. Sheet cake. Cake that worked as a visual metaphor for the sense of helplessness so many Americans are feeling right now, as hate groups feel validated and empowered, and as so many in the U.S. government give those groups ample reason for the feeling. Fey’s cake, destroyed by the end of the segment, was frosted with an American flag.

The bit is, in many ways, classic Fey: It’s self-deprecating, and uses food in particular as a tool of deprecation; it’s at once slapstick and cerebral; it folds a sweeping message about the emotional state of the country into a joke about baked goods; it refers to white supremacists as “chinless turds.” But the bit is classic Fey in another way, too: Its humor is also punctuated with moments of cringe-worthiness—about race, in particular.
‘He Is Not a President’
At one point Fey makes a joke about a drag queen being “a 6-foot-4 black man.” She yuks to Michael Che about her placement on the set: She’s sitting next to Colin Jost rather than Che, she explains, because the angle highlights “the better half of my face” (“This week, I think it’s important to be clear about that”). She ends the whole bit with an apparently off-handed joke about Thomas Jefferson and ... Sally Hemings, “that hot light-skinned girl over by the butter churn.” (This was an echo of a line in her memoir Bossypants: “To get some play in Charlottesville,” Fey wrote of her time at UVA, “you had to be either a Martha Jefferson or a Sally Hemings.”) All that came in the context of a segment that is in one way channeling a sense of national despair but that is in another toying with complacency as a response to evil’s banality: Let us eat cake.
It’s just a joke, you might say. It’s just a joke, Fey herself might say—as, indeed, she has said so many times before: after episodes of 30 Rock and Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt met with criticism for their glibness about race, after Fey and her team responded to the criticism by doubling down on the glibness. It’s just a joke, however, doesn’t account for the Fey Effect: for comedy’s power to shape the way people see the world. “Tina Fey starts a grassroots movement with ‘sheetcaking,’” the Twitter Moment about Fey’s appearance summed it up; that, itself, was not serious. There is no “movement” here. The joke is about seeing a problem in the world and turning inward in response. It’s about a kind of political introversion—an introversion that is, as astute critics have pointed out, its own kind of privilege.
The aftermath of Charlottesville has surfaced many truths and sparked many questions about this country and this moment; one of them is the matter of speaking itself. Who should be heard right now, and who should be quieting down? Who has wisdom to share? Who, on the other side, has something to learn?
Fey’s bit, perhaps unintentionally, asked those questions, too. Her appearance, Jost noted when he introduced her, as the studio audience went wild, was “personal”—Fey was speaking up about Charlottesville, Weekend Update suggested, because of her connection to UVA. There are many other people, of course, for whom Charlottesville is “personal” in extremely meaningful ways. But that wasn’t the kind of “personal” Saturday Night Live was exploring this week. It had its own definitions. It gave Fey’s fellow SNL alums, Jimmy Fallon and Seth Meyers, the chance to appear elsewhere in Weekend Update as George Washington and Thomas Jefferson—and to make jokes about the fact that the founders, while doing their founding, had enslaved other humans. Just jokes.
Saturday Night Live is a place, in general, of sanitized centrism: edgy, but not too edgy; summative rather than argumentative. In one way that gives it power as a broad shaper of the national mood: the Fey Effect, in action. In another way, though, its posture limits the show’s capabilities in moments of real moral crisis. It makes it clash against the comedy that more boldly embraces moral arguments and activist impulses. It makes SNL itself a little bit introverted.  
Last year, in an episode for his podcast Revisionist History, Malcolm Gladwell criticized Fey’s portrayal of Palin. The gags’ satire was “toothless,” he argued—funny, sure, but also easy and a little cheap. Parody, nothing more. Gladwell’s argument wasn’t terribly convincing—no one watches Saturday Night Live expecting Jonathan Swift—but it was also, perhaps, prescient: The years between 2008 and 2017 have been consequential ones, ones that have changed the character of the country and of the world. Comedy is adjusting to that, as are we all. But it is adjusting slowly. On Thursday, as history’s first rough drafts were still being written about Charlottesville—while it remained an open question whether the hoodless hatred on display there was a death rattle or the new normal—Saturday Night Live welcomed back its former star and, with great fanfare, let her eat cake.


Is The Defenders a good show? Not if you take “good” to mean that it’s well-written, or deftly plotted, or boasts particularly transcendent performances. The script includes lines that belong nowhere outside of a Ferrero Rocher commercial, like, “Your insight on music history—it never ceases to amaze me,” or, “Please tell your wife she makes it even better than they did in Constantinople.” Though Netflix has wisely trimmed the new spinoff of its four Marvel superheroes down to eight episodes, the first two still feature a laborious amount of wheel-spinning setup. And even if the actors are all doing their best, they can’t shake the bleak pomposity that infuses all of Marvel’s Netflix shows—a characteristic commitment to clenched jaws and deathly earnestness.
But none of this matters when the four characters finally come together, in a fight sequence of such exuberance and energy that the whole universe seems to click into place. Matt Murdock/Daredevil (Charlie Cox), Jessica Jones (Krysten Ritter), Luke Cage (Mike Colter), and Danny Rand/Iron Fist (Finn Jones) have each appeared in their own series up to this point, to varying effect and critical reception. But together, they’re a riot. Both their heroic vulnerabilities and the franchise’s weaknesses are superseded by the collective and the joy of watching a super-sensed, ultra-strong, bulletproof, luminous fist-wielding foursome smash soulless corporate henchmen into smithereens.
Marvel's Iron Fist Is Desperately Seeking a Hero
There is, of course, some exposition to get through before this point, just in case there are curious viewers tuning in who haven’t kept up to date with all four heroes individually (pretty much the only reason to soldier through the 13 episodes of Iron Fist). The first episode offers a quick catchup: Matt’s put away his costume and is focusing on pro bono work, Jessica’s still drinking excessively, Luke’s out of prison thanks to a timely intervention by Foggy (Elden Henson), and Danny and Colleen (Jessica Henwick) have chased the Hand to Phnom Penh, where they seem to hit a dead end. But all are back in New York by the time a strange event occurs that pulls them into the orbit of Alexandra (Sigourney Weaver), a wealthy and enigmatic woman with a fascinating past but only a single emotional register.
Weaver, despite her immense talent and ferocious poise, makes for the weakest villain the Netflix Marvel universe has seen so far, burdened with all of the tedious epicurean hallmarks of an arch-nemesis (she loves classical music and Botticelli masterpieces) but none of the personality, at least in the four episodes distributed to critics. Unlike Vincent D’Onofrio’s Wilson Fisk (Daredevil) or Mahershala Ali’s Cottonmouth (Luke Cage), she exudes bland elegance rather than menace. To that end, The Defenders relies on another familiar face for most of its epic set pieces, but it’s still hard not to long for a more genuinely ominous and unstable villain like David Tennant’s Kilgrave from Jessica Jones, who beyond threatening the physical safety of the four heroes could actually get inside their heads.
To the credit of The Defenders, though, it’s obviously learned from the pitfalls and rookie errors of the previous four series. Episodes are shorter, fight scenes are tighter, and the sheer volume of characters to deal with means there’s much less throat-clearing going on. Most of the criticism leveled at Finn Jones’s oft-petulant boy billionaire is incorporated into the show via Luke, who treats Danny to dressing downs and occasional physical face-offs that for viewers are likely cathartic. It’s oddly a lot easier to accept Danny Rand as a mystical-wisdom spouting, Converse-wearing brat when there’s someone onscreen making fun of him for it.
The flip side of the pared-down structure is that it allows for only a brief amount of time with each character, particularly Jessica, whose show debuted almost two years ago, and who hasn’t been heard from since. But that’s presumably the point of The Defenders—to remind viewers that these heroes are here to stay. The thrill of Marvel’s TV shows has always been the recurring characters who pop up in unexpected places, like the Madame Gaos and the Jeri Hogarths who add cohesion to their shared universe. (Jon Bernthal’s Frank Castle/Punisher reportedly shows up in later episodes of The Defenders, and there are rumors Kilgrave might also make an appearance.) It’s now at least clear why Claire Temple (Rosario Dawson) has been such a sparse but reliable presence all this time: Someone had to be the mutual friend who brings the gang together.


There’s something transgressive about touching other people’s clothes—especially dead people’s clothes. Some would even call it spooky. As a costume curator and fashion historian, I have colleagues who swear that they have felt, and even seen, ghostly presences in their museums’ costume-storage areas. It’s easy to get the chills in those cramped rooms, which are climate-controlled to the ideal temperature and humidity for textiles, not for humans. I myself have not encountered any phantom fashionistas, but once I opened a box and a fox stole—complete with eyes, paws, tail, and teeth—seemed to leap out, making me scream so loudly that two security guards came running. Occasionally I’ll find a stray hair, a frayed hem, or a telltale stain on an otherwise pristine garment carefully packed away for posterity in acid-free tissue paper and remember, with a jolt, that there was once a living, breathing, sweating human body inside it—a body that has been still for up to hundreds of years.
Obviously, this is not the impression we curators want to give museum visitors. Blockbuster fashion exhibitions are big business, from the $25 tickets to boutique-like gift shops, and the only scary thing about them should be the hours-long line to get in. Once inside the galleries, visitors see clothes reanimated on mannequins, with atmospheric lighting and music, high-tech interactive displays, and painstakingly researched explanatory labels and catalogues. The Costume Institute’s 2016 show Manus x Machina: Fashion in an Age of Technology was the seventh most attended exhibition in the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s 147-year history, beating the record-breaking Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty show from 2011. The Fashion World of Jean Paul Gaultier, organized by the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, drew even more people over the course of its five-year, 12-city tour, which ended last year. Even museums not known for collecting costume have bought into the trend; the Museum of Modern Art’s upcoming Items: Is Fashion Modern? will be the institution’s first fashion exhibition in 73 years when it opens in October.
The buzziest shows emphasize contemporary fashion. But historic dress—the kind I mostly deal with—is a powerful draw, too, especially in the age of Game of Thrones, Outlander, and Poldark. Few museum visitors have ever handled a marble bust or a gilded snuffbox, but everyone wears clothes. Whether it’s a 17th-century silk doublet or an Imperial Russian court gown, anyone can look at a garment and evaluate it from a place of experience. Maybe that’s why people are mystified when I tell them what I do for a living. They can relate to the subject instantly—and, at the same time, can’t understand why my job requires years of training and a graduate degree (or two). Today, when seemingly everything, from cocktail menu to playlist, is described as being curated, “But what do you actually do?” is a question I get all the time—and a full answer involves mannequin mutilation and crotch-stuffing, writing and lecturing, bidding on eBay, researching history and art history, and honing a sense of style that both channels and transcends the sensibilities of any given era.
* * *
I am not a fashion designer. The worst sin I can commit at my job is trying on the clothes in my care, or allowing someone else to, because museum pieces are for studying, preserving, and displaying, not for wearing. But it’s the wearing that gives them meaning. And it’s often the flaws in a garment—the discolorations, the smells, the split seams, the runaway sequins—that speak the loudest, poignant reminders of the lives lived in them.
An antique textile dealer once told me about a woman who called her, wanting to sell a black dress worn by her great-great-grandmother, who had died in the 1850s. Not another Victorian black dress, the dealer thought, rolling her eyes. The caller continued: “My great-great-grandmother was a slave.” The dealer nearly dropped the phone in shock, then invited the caller to name her price; documented slave clothes are as rare as Victorian black dresses are commonplace. The lesson was that sometimes, it’s the woman—or man—who makes the clothes, not the other way around. In other words, every wedding dress is special, but only Kate Middleton’s wedding dress could bring in $15 million in ticket sales during just two months on display at Buckingham Palace.
To most people, a preoccupation with clothing is superficial, if not borderline immoral; even the Bible asks: “Why do you worry about clothes?” But fashion historians are more inclined to agree with Oscar Wilde’s line from The Picture of Dorian Gray: “It is only shallow people who do not judge by appearances.” Though some may see our jobs as frivolous, curators understand that clothes reveal ineffable truths about not just individual lives, but also collective values and experiences. Garments act as totems and taboos, and retain their power to impress or intimidate long after they were first worn. Things like Ku Klux Klan robes and Nazi uniforms are collected but rarely displayed by museums, precisely because they so powerfully evoke events and emotions most would prefer to forget. At the same time, old clothes acquire new and problematic meanings over time. Many museums are now reluctant to display fur garments because they may offend animal lovers, even though fur has been an integral element of dress for thousands of years.
Thanks to modern technology and the efforts of specialist textile scientists, curators can now appreciate historical garments in ways their original beholders and wearers could not. Polarizing microscopes and high-resolution digital images reveal textures, weaves, and threads invisible to the naked eye. Cutting-edge conservation treatments reinflate sleeves crushed by centuries of careless storage or restore shattered silk linings. X-rays reveal the complex interior boning of a Balenciaga evening gown, and military-grade chemical inhibitors remove aluminum corrosion on Neil Armstrong’s space suit.
But no amount of scientific analysis can capture the feel, sound, and smell of historic clothing—and that’s where costume curators and conservators (who are responsible for the technical examination and treatment of textiles) have a privileged perspective. We get to touch it. We enjoy intimate proximity with other people’s clothes, laid out on lab tables under lights and magnifying glasses like surgical patients, not in dimly illuminated public galleries where the objects are kept out of reach behind glass or velvet ropes. We find the hidden pockets; the discreet padding; the lingering whiff of perfume or tobacco. By the time they go on public display, we know them as well as the clothes on our own backs.
* * *
Costume exhibitions offer a remembered way of dressing that is at once more attractive and more idiosyncratic than today’s. It seems to me that the popularity of these shows has skyrocketed alongside society’s growing tendency to dress down, a phenomenon that, while hardly new, has been greatly accelerated by the rise of the laid-back tech industry and social media. The growth of athleisure has hardly abated the craving for old-fashioned elegance: Dapper Day, first held at Disneyland in 2011, has grown into an international movement, workplaces have started embracing Formal Friday dress codes, and even corsets are back.
While the demand for such museum shows is clear, less obvious is the fact that they entail years of preparation, even if they’re typically on view for just a few months—the maximum amount of time the fragile fibers can be exposed to light without fading or deteriorating. Compared to other types of artwork, garments and textiles are relatively inexpensive to collect, but they are notoriously costly to store, maintain, and exhibit. New textile acquisitions must be quarantined in giant freezers for two weeks before being unpacked, to kill any insects that might have stowed away in their folds. One day, I was at work when a brand-new pair of Prada’s Art Nouveau-inspired Fairy shoes arrived in the mail: a donation, still in the original box. It was promptly slapped with a museum-inventory number and hustled into storage, never to be worn. There wasn’t a dry eye in the office.
We curators are only human, after all. Of course we want to try on the clothes; it’s what got us interested in working with costume collections in the first place. That said, you won’t find many curators on best-dressed lists. Given the opportunity, we’d probably all be wearing head-to-toe Issey Miyake and Martin Margiela. But most museums are nonprofits; in general, they don’t pay us well enough to indulge in the edgy, cerebral labels we love best. (One curator I know has worn the same artfully deconstructed Ann Demeulemeester dress for every speaking engagement for the past eight years.) Often, though, you can identify a costume curator by the accessories: a stunning shibori scarf picked up on a courier trip to Kyoto, or a fabulous piece of costume jewelry from an insider-y vintage store, or a shoe collection to rival any museum’s.
Curators are also drawn to natural fibers, which can be a curse in this day and age, when pure silks, wools, linens, and cottons are the exception, not the rule, as they were until the mid-20th century. Today, many of the fabrics and handcraft techniques common to historic garments and textiles exist only in haute couture. Most of our clothes and their materials are produced quickly and cheaply using machines; computers have simplified the tailoring and fitting process. This has made fashionable dress available to more people but at the expense of the quality and individuality evident in even the everyday clothing of previous generations.
The one high-tech textile curators love is Tyvek, the soft, white, spun-polyethylene material Netflix used to ship DVDs in. We go through bolts and bolts of it, using it to line worktables, shroud mannequins, and carpet gallery floors during installation. Tyvek protects, but—more importantly—it also conceals, for what happens behind the scenes of a costume exhibition is not pretty. Unlike hanging a painting on a wall, mounting a three-dimensional object on an entirely different three-dimensional object is an all-day endeavor.
Curators alter the mannequin to fit the garment, never the other way around. We routinely disfigure mannequins with polyester batting, felt, and tulle to make them conform to clothes that were custom-tailored for unique, imperfect bodies and often distorted by long-lost foundation garments. Alternatively, we dismember them; some of the unspeakable acts I’ve performed on mannequins include shaving down breasts, amputating toes, and truncating too-long limbs.
More than historians, we are also stylists. It takes a good eye and a steady hand to dress a mannequin, but it requires a bold leap of the imagination and intellect to outfit that mannequin with a hat, jewelry, gloves, shoes, and other accessories appropriate to the taste of the period; to anchor an orphaned garment in a place, a social class, and a time of year (and time of day); and, ultimately, to do so in a way that makes it accessible and attractive to multigenerational, multicultural audiences.
And that’s after you’ve agonized over the specs of the mannequin. Does it need hands? A head? Does the head need a face? Or hair? What is the hair going to be made of? (Paper, tulle, polyester fiberfill, and buckram are popular options; the Saint Louis Art Museum’s current menswear show uses suit interfacing, a clever tailoring twist.) When—for purely aesthetic reasons—the J. Paul Getty Museum included headless mannequins in its 2011 show Paris: Life & Luxury, one critic interpreted them as foreshadowing the guillotine. By leaving the mannequins’ bodies incomplete and allowing visitors to fill in the gaps themselves, curators sometimes risk inviting incorrect assumptions.
The color of mannequins has become a pressing concern in my line of work, too, as exhibition themes and displays ramp up their efforts to depict diversity. Mannequins with realistic skin tones tend to look old-fashioned or uncanny-valley-adjacent, but “neutral” colors like white or pale gray often read as Caucasian—the latter an especially glaring problem in a show like FIT’s Black Fashion Designers or the Chicago History Museum’s Inspiring Beauty: 50 Years of Ebony Fashion Fair.  In recent years, custom-made “floating” forms—hollow torsos concealed by the clothes and hung by invisible wires—have surged in popularity, because they sidestep so many of the issues that mannequins pose. Imagine inflating a garment like a balloon until it takes on the size and shape of its original wearer. It’s as if the former owner has just stepped out for a moment; literally disembodied, the garments themselves become ghosts.
Dressing mannequins, with all the practical considerations and cultural nuances that entails, has changed the way I dress myself. I have a vast collection of half-slips and other archaic undergarments, and you can usually find a few safety pins somewhere on my person, keeping all those layers in place. My tiny closet is crowded with acid-free boxes, shoe trees, and homemade padded hangers and linen garment bags. But studying other people’s clothes has shaped me in other, more profound ways, as well. I no longer view clothing as ornament or protection, but as communication. To my mind, dress codes and sumptuary laws are free-speech issues; dress speaks louder—and with more honesty—than words. And very little in fashion strikes me as new or surprising. Hemlines and hairstyles may change, but the forces driving them—human frailty, vanity, and ingenuity—are eternal.


Justin Bieber just wants to ask you a question, again. Owing either to marketing efforts or issues that can only be determined in a therapy session, the signature hits of the Canadian child star’s adult career have boasted choruses as interrogatives. When he transitioned to semi-adventurous dance-pop: “Where are you now that I need you?” Amid metronome and burbling keys: “What do you mean?” Over skeletal dancehall: “Is it too late to say sorry?” Now, he’s got a sunny new single and a hopeful new question: “Can we still be friends?”
In all cases, he and his team have executed a songwriting/brand-management trick. The lyrics literally address a lover—but allegorically it’s clear he’s talking to his famously devoted, famously long-suffering fans. Amid bucket-peeing scandals, and concert-stage surliness, and rants about the burden of giving autographs, he has repeatedly sought amends and checked on his followers’ loyalty. Asking, asking, asking: We cool? The plaintive stance is an easy match for Bieber’s musical and meta-musical identities—hangdog yet angelic, an eternal choirboy struggling with life in the spotlight.
‘Despacito’ and the Revenge of Reggaeton
The new single, “Friends,” is sleek electro—the zillionth child of the Eurythmics’s “Sweet Dreams (Are Made of This)” to approach the public in the past three decades. It’s a collaboration with Blood Pop, one of the trendy producers of the moment and the leading musical architect of this phase of Bieber’s career. His signature is to bedazzle otherwise pro-forma pop with fidgety rhythmic details and snippets of manipulated vocals that evoke the image of an all-Pokemon backing choir.
As usual with Blood Pop’s work, though, all the busy-ness seems secondary, a cosmetic chassis for the real engine of the song—in this case, an insistent beat, a tight verse-prechorus-chorus structure, an on-trend wordless hook, and Bieber’s melody. The singer here portrays himself as a nice guy earnestly wondering how an ex and her mom are doing. He’s got no “ulterior motive” other than, we learn in the second verse, wanting to know if she’s replaced him. (Yes, this is possibly all a way of explaining his continued public attention to his ex, Selena Gomez.)

The fan-management angle that will be applied to the question “Can we still be friends?” is obvious. Bieber abruptly called quits on his world tour in July, citing only “unforeseen circumstances.” Rumors circulated he’d done so out of some sort of Christian-faith renewal (was he going to start a new church?), but it also seemed plausible that he’d just gotten sick of the touring behind his 2015 album Purpose. From the start, concert reviews made clear, he wasn’t overly enthused to be at the center of arenas each night. But now he’s back with one of the most straightforwardly pleasurable singles of his career. Fans peeved at his behavior of late may, after everything, remain his friends.
The single also arrives during a remarkable hot streak for Bieber as a hitmaker. Through some savvy (and mercenary) collaborations, he has dominated the season’s airwaves, most notably by hopping on Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee’s Latin-world smash “Despacito” and turning it into the U.S.’s song of the summer as well as the most-streamed song of all time. This week, the tune hit 14 weeks in the No. 1 spot—tying “Macarena” for the longest-running U.S. chart-topper sung mostly in a non-English language. The song preceding it in lead position was also Bieber-centric, the DJ Khaled crew-rap “I’m the One.” Can “Friends”  give Bieber three consecutive No. 1s and total ownership of summer 2017 radio? It’s a long shot, but that question is, no doubt, the most interesting one the song is asking.


In a week of renewed national attention to organized white supremacy, the music-streaming platform Spotify has removed a number of bands alleged to be associated with neo-Nazism. On Monday, Paul Resnikoff at Digital Music News pointed out that 29 bands identified as racist by the Southern Poverty Law Center were available for listening on Spotify (as well as another eight apparently hateful artists that Resnikoff found). By Thursday, Spotify had removed many of the acts, saying that “illegal content or material that favors hatred or incites violence against race, religion, sexuality or the like is not tolerated by us.”
What Trump Gets Wrong About Antifa
The fact that the bands were available to stream in the first place speaks to the challenges of stemming hate speech on new, supposedly democratizing technology platforms. The SPLC’s list of white-power bands that Resnikoff cited was drawn up in 2014 to bring attention to their presence on iTunes, Apple’s service that sells downloads of songs and albums. Keegan Hankes wrote that “the racist music industry, a once lucrative source of funding for the white-power movement,” had faced challenges in distribution and funding in recent years—but was finding new life thanks to digital downloads. Streaming, which is supplanting downloading in popularity, could create a similar dynamic.
Some of the most famous white-power acts, like the band Skrewdriver, appear to have already been absent from platforms like Spotify and Apple Music (YouTube, still navigating how to handle extremist content, is another story). But the bands at issue this week are smaller, obscure ones that might slip under the radar for platforms accessible to hundreds of thousands of bands uploading music through independent distributors. “We are glad to have been alerted to this content—and have already removed many of the bands identified today, whilst urgently reviewing the remainder,” Spotify’s representative said to Billboard. Competitors are following suit. A source close to the situation told me Thursday morning that Tidal is currently in the process of deleting many of these same bands.
The push to stop tech platforms from being used to spread white supremacy isn’t limited to the music world. Buzzfeed reports that Apple Pay and Paypal have recently cut off business with a number of sites selling white-nationalist and Nazi merchandise. The hate publication Daily Stormer has now found itself without a web host after Google and GoDaddy cut ties. It briefly relocated to a Russian server but went down again after Cloudflare, a service that protects from denial-of-service attacks, dropped it as a client.
Music can be a particularly tricky, and important, font of hate for the tech world to  grapple with. The white-power rock scene has a long history, as well as real associations with violence. The man who massacred six people at a Sikh temple in Wisconsin in 2012, for example, played in racist hardcore bands. For now,  at least, the bans would seem to have a pretty clear logic—making it harder for bands listed as hate groups by a hate-group watchdog organization to court enormous potential audiences worldwide.
Yet as is always the case with artistic expression, it’s easy to imagine bans like this week’s triggering future battles over speech rights. What happens in the case of an established band like Pantera, whose singer Phil Anselmo made a white-power salute onstage last year and then apologized for it? And how long before white nationalists take the “both sides” rhetorical approach used by the president to, say, advocate for the banning of aggressive or racially fraught rap lyrics? Of course, the argument being made by critics of Donald Trump’s handling of Charlottesville holds here as well: The history of anti-black (and anti-brown, and anti-Semitic) oppression is so pernicious, and the power dynamics in this country so unequal, that the danger posed by organized white-power movements has no parallel.


This post references plot points through Season 7, Episode 5 of Game of Thrones.
“Perhaps we ought to listen to what he has to say.”
Sam Tarly is trying his best to convince the maesters of the Citadel that Jon Snow has not completely lost his mind. Sam is not having an easy time of it. Which is not entirely surprising: The truth Jon is telling, after all, involves murderous zombies rising from the north’s icy wastelands to attack the warm humans of the south and win them over for the army of the dead. Oh, and the zombie-horde includes some giants. Oh, and the whole undead army is operating under the leadership of an ice-king with superhuman strength who seems to be both exceptionally militarily strategic and also in possession of a lifetime supply of EyeCandys color contacts in Fancy Blue.
Game of Thrones: No Choice at All
Jon—while the audience of Game of Thrones knows this for sure, the denizens of Westeros do not—has not lost his mind. He has seen the army of the dead, right in the midst of their army-ing. He knows the White Walkers and their Night King are real, not as a matter of faith, but as a matter of observation. He’s been an eyewitness to the hungry hordes of former humans who have been converted, through some unknown magic, into weapons.
But Jon is fairly unique in that vision: To most everyone else in Westeros, the White Walkers are fanciful myths. They’re the stuff of legend and lore, which is also to say of lies. As a Citadel maester reminds Sam Tarly, quite reasonably, “prophesies of doom are never in short supply, especially when winter comes.”
* * *
Game of Thrones resonates in part because of its aggressive escapism: the dragons, the magic, the going-out tops that work as business casual. Here is a show that, in a time of political turmoil, offers viewers the chance, for an hour just before the new week begins, to get away from the fires and the furies of reality. But Game of Thrones resonates, as well, because it channels the anxieties of this chaotic moment: about power and who deserves it, about justice and how it might be found. In that sense Jon Snow’s ice-zombies are invested both with magic and with realism: They ask questions not just about life and death, but about truth itself. In a world of information that is both limited and easily manipulated, should people in the Seven Kingdoms believe Jon and his tales of imminent apocalypse? What if they do, and are fooled? What if they don’t, and are doomed?
Game of Thrones may be a show about war, and aristocracy, and loyalty, and tyranny, and, very occasionally, love; it is also keenly interested, however, in the dynamics of belief. It cares about the ways information can save lives and take them—the ways truths and non-truths can be weaponized for good and for ill. Ned Stark dies because, as a person of honor, he doesn’t understand how easily Joffrey will lie to him. The Lannisters retain their power not merely because of their fancifully outfitted bannermen, but because of their spies. Varys and Littlefinger, two expert intelligence-gatherers and information-manipulators, have survived thus far into the show’s generally Darwinian proceedings in large part because they have replaced martial ability with intellectual acumen: When you play the Game of Thrones, apparently, either you win, or you spy.
But Jon Snow and his ice-zombies represent a very particular twist on all that. And the show’s current season, along with them, represents a very particular twist. Having come to the south to warn its denizens that Winter Is Coming, the king of the north now finds himself in a position that is an extremely familiar one in the world Game of Thrones is operating in: Jon has to convince people that what he is saying is true. He must win over those who are not at all inclined to give him—or his observations—the benefit of the doubt. He must, in essence, prove that he is not fake news.
So Season 7 of Game of Thrones finds Jon, clad in his Winterfell leathers and Valyrian steel, ready for battle—and yet the war he is fighting, it soon becomes clear, will first be waged in human minds. Soon after Jon arrives at Dragonstone, once he has convinced Daenerys to allow him to mine the land’s caves for dragonglass, Jon shows her to drawings he tells her he has happened upon in his mining. They’re cave drawings—drawings that progress from primitive swirls and stars to a detailed image of humans and, then, finally, the Night King, rendered in minute precision, right down to those Fancy Blue eyes.
“They were here together, the children and the first men,” Jon tells Dany.
“Doing what?” she asks. “Fighting each other?”
Jon Snow could not have asked for a better opening. “They fought together against their common enemy,” he corrects her. “Despite their differences, despite their suspicions. Together.” He pauses, letting his words sink in with the queen. “We need to do the same if we’re going to survive. Because the enemy is real. It’s always been real.”
My first thought when watching the scene—and I was not alone in this—was that Jon had added the drawings of the Night army himself. The complexity of the art, after all, progressed from Cave of Forgotten Dreams to photorealism almost comically quickly. And also: Jon had good reason to get out his chalk set. The images were helping him, after all, to make a point: that winter really is coming. That the enemy is real, and always has been.
There’s a cyclical quality to that insistence. Jon’s efforts are repetitions of the efforts made by Jeor Mormont in the second season of the show: The lord commander of the Night’s Watch, after he had been attacked in his chamber by a wight, had sent a letter to the Small Council at King’s Landing, asking them for military aid. The White Walkers were moving south, Mormont told the king’s advisors. The Night’s Watch needed help fending them off. “Cold winds are rising, and the dead rise with them,” the lord commander had written.
Grand Maester Pycelle was not inclined to believe. “The northerners are a superstitious people,” he said.
“Mormont doesn’t lie,” Tyrion noted.  
Cersei, too, was dismissive. “One trip to the Wall and you come back believing in grumkins and snarks,” she told her brother.  
“I don’t know what I believe,” Tyrion replied. “But here’s a fact for you: The Night’s Watch is the only thing that separates us from what lies beyond the Wall.”
The council session ended; Mormont’s request went ignored. It’s taken several seasons for it, like the army of the dead, to rise again—this time, through the person of Jon Snow.  
“I put my trust in you, a stranger,” the king of the north tells Daenerys, “because I knew it was the best chance for my people — for all my people. Now I’m asking you to trust in a stranger because it’s our best chance.”
This time: The requests are heeded. Jon has spent the current season of Game of Thrones building a coalition devoted to facts—and to facing head-on the threat those facts represent. With the help of Tyrion, he is convincing Jaime—and, with Jaime’s help, Cersei—of the fact that the White Walkers are real. He is convincing Dany that Winter is not merely coming, but nonfictional.
They all, like Jon, still have their work cut out for them. “Cersei thinks the army of the dead is nothing but a story, made up by wet nurses to fight children,” Tyrion notes. “What if we prove her wrong?” He then advises Jon to fight reticence with evidence: to bring a wight—an ice-zombie—to the south, physical proof that winter is coming because, indeed, winter has already come. “Bring one of these things to King’s Landing,” Tyrion says, “and show her the truth.”
It’s an absurd plan. It’s absurd on its face; it’s absurd when Jaime sums it up to Cersei: “An army of dead men is marching on the Seven Kingdoms,” the brother informs the sister. “Tyrion says he’ll have proof.”
And yet it’s an absurdity born of necessity. Westeros is a world of hard lives and hard truths; its people are generally not inclined to believe in fairy tales. It, too, is a land that is guided by the paranoid style. Its people believe in different gods, and the trouble can come when they are asked to believe in truths about the physical world. The White Walkers are sometimes compared to climate change, and Jon Snow is sometimes compared to Al Gore: a speaker of truths that many people are not ready to hear. Jon and his ad-hoc team, in their mission, are seeking, essentially, the hard data that will make apocalypse feel to people less like a far-off story and more like an immediate threat. An existential one.
Sam, too, is engaged in that work: He knows that the maesters of the Citadel can be crucial in the fight to convince people to do some fighting in the first place. “Everyone in Westeros trusts and respects you,” Sam tells the wizened men assembled before him, appealing to their egos as well as their sense of civic duty. “If you tell people the threat is real, they’ll believe it. If you advise all the lords to send their men north to hold the Wall, they’ll do it. And if you tell every maester in the Citadel, they may find something that lets you defeat the army of the dead for good.”
“It could be done,” Archmaester Marwyn replies. “And this news could be authentic.” He pauses. “It’s possible.”


Clyde Logan (Adam Driver), a one-armed bartender in a small West Virginia town, is convinced his family is cursed. And he’s got plenty of reason to think so: He lost his arm to a roadside mine on his way home from his second tour in Iraq, and his brother Jimmy (Channing Tatum) can’t keep a job because of a lingering leg injury (or, as his apologetic boss puts it, a preexisting condition). Clyde looks back into the Logan family history and finds only misery, using the failings of his ancestors as an excuse for staying put in life. But where Clyde sees trouble, Jimmy sees opportunity—and a chance to reverse their misfortune.
Logan Lucky, Steven Soderbergh’s first film in four years (and his grand comeback from self-imposed retirement), is a jangly jaunt of a heist movie, following Jimmy’s elaborate plan to rob the NASCAR Coca-Cola 600 race at Charlotte Motor Speedway. The film has the same breezy feeling as Soderbergh’s Ocean’s Eleven, being a caper movie where, even as things go wrong, there’s never a pressing sense of danger. But Logan Lucky works because the stakes are higher than they initially seem: Just as Danny Ocean was really striving to reclaim his lost love, Jimmy and Clyde Logan are looking to disprove decades of family misery. They’re seeking a cosmic realignment.
Magic Mike XXL: This Time It Really Is for the Ladies
The robbery itself is low on pathos (there’s not even a villainous businessman, like Andy Garcia in Ocean’s Eleven, to cheer against), but Soderbergh smartly grounds it in emotion rather than greed, making a ridiculous scheme sound downright sensible. Jimmy is out of a job, yes, and needs a few bucks to hire a lawyer for his ongoing custody battle with his ex-wife Bobbie Jo (Katie Holmes). But there’s no dying relative, no massive debt owed to the mob, no overriding reason for him to try and pull off such a daring heist. Rather, Jimmy is trying to prove the very gods of luck wrong, and it makes him that much more fun to root for.
Logan Lucky feels like a Coen brothers movie, down to its fairly cartoonish view of life in West Virginia. There are plenty of John Denver references made, trucker hats worn, and broad Southern accents. There’s also a delightful grab-bag of colorful supporting roles for the sparkling cast: Hilary Swank as a meticulous investigator, Riley Keough as the Logans’ capable sister Mellie, Dwight Yoakam as a preening prison warden. Best of all is Daniel Craig as the expert safecracker Joe Bang, whom the brothers decide to break out of prison for his special skills, then break back into prison once the heist is done.
Most of the lead performers are easygoing: Tatum’s Jimmy is a hop and a step removed from the actor’s work in Soderbergh’s Magic Mike, a down-home boy possessed of a quiet brand of confidence. Driver’s Clyde is just slightly edgier, but Logan Lucky isn’t filled with the kind of violent hotheads you might expect from a heist story. Craig, whose Joe Bang sports a peroxide-blonde crew-cut that accentuates his ice-blue eyes, is the closest Logan Lucky comes to having a wild card. Even he’s more grounded than you’d assume, in one scene patiently explaining the science of an explosive bag of gummy bears he rigs up for the safe-cracking.
As with Ocean’s Eleven, the thrill of this film isn’t in whatever mortal danger the Logan brothers might be in, it’s the goofy joy of watching their plan come together, and witnessing Jimmy and Clyde side-step obstacles with grace. In all, it’s a gentle return from retirement for Soderbergh. Logan Lucky is like a cheerful sing-a-long of a movie, sweeping its audience along easily, even if some of the details quickly vanish from memory.
But, of course, Soderbergh was never really retired from moviemaking. It seems he was just looking for new ways to tell his stories and frustrated with a studio system that largely ignores these kind of actor-driven, mid-sized films that used to dominate Hollywood. Soderbergh made The Knick, a terrific exploration of the human ecosystem of a hospital in the early 20th century, on television. He served as the cinematographer and editor of Magic Mike XXL, the tone-poem sequel to his male-stripper movie that bathed its chiseled cast in moody color filters. Logan Lucky is yet another of Soderbergh’s wonderful ensemble pieces, one that should stand out in the cinematic doldrums of August.


The trolley problem, that hoary old mainstay of philosophy syllabi and drunken ethical squabbles, is, to put it bluntly, hot right now. Just this year, it’s popped up in episodes of both Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt and Orange Is the New Black, as characters wrestled with the principles of utilitarianism and what it means to try to do good in the world. It’s also become a meme, as New York’s Select All explored last year: a framework for people to explore everything from pro-life principles to the death of Harambe.
The problem, in its most basic form, goes like this: A runaway trolley car is heading toward five people, and if it hits them, they will die. You, the problem solver, are standing by a lever that enables you to redirect the trolley to a siding where only one person is standing. By pushing the lever you will save five lives but be directly responsible for the loss of one. Do you pull the lever—seek the greatest good for the greatest number—or do nothing, and let fate take its course?
Escaped Alone Finds Comfort at the End of the World
The issue with this particular conundrum, though, as Sarah Bakewell wrote in 2013, is that while people think they’re creatures of reason, our instincts are actually “fickle and easily manipulated.” And this is also the problem with direct democracy in general—when we’re asked to vote on matters of national importance, we tend to be uninformed, personally biased, or swayed by the strangest of factors. The Majority, a new show at London’s National Theatre by the performer and playwright Rob Drummond, is inspired by a wave of recent electoral upsets, from the Scottish independence referendum in 2014 to the Brexit vote last year. Throughout the show, Drummond asks a series of timely questions to which the audience votes “yes” or “no” on in real time, with the results immediately revealed, as he demonstrates how easily the shape of a question can alter its answer.
The questions range from the personal to the timely. Are we, the audience members, liberal? (90.55 percent yes.) Are we white? (91.18 percent yes.) Do we use social media? (67.29 percent yes.) Do we believe in absolute freedom of speech? (61.68 percent no.) Is violence sometimes the answer? (51.16 percent no.) Would we pull the lever to save five people? (70.94 percent yes.) What if, instead of pulling the lever, we had to push a fat man over a bridge to save five lives? Could we do it? (71.05 percent no, almost exactly the same percentage that would pull the lever the first time.) “It’s different when it’s a person, isn’t it?” Drummond notes, as if pondering our inconsistency.
These votes tend to play out as if the audience is participating in a game of Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? While we vote, on small devices that are given out before the show begins, jaunty music plays and a giant clock projected onto the stage ticks down the time remaining. The votes are interspersed with Drummond’s narrative, a strange, meandering story about how he got involved with the anti-fascism movement and ended up being arrested for punching a white supremacist. Drummond seems to want to use his personal experiences to illuminate the questions at hand, but his gonzo style means it’s hard to tell what’s real and what’s creative license.
As the show proceeds, the tone of the recurrent trolley questions gets darker, as if to emphasize to the audience the potential consequences of even the most theoretical questions. Would we save one innocent person to kill five nonviolent neo-Nazis? Should we vote for Drummond to dox a Scottish white nationalist—who pops up a handful of times in the story—right then and there? (On the night I attended, the audience voted “yes,” and Drummond dutifully typed the man’s name and address into a comment section on a website that may or may not be real.)
Drummond is an engaging host, although the show’s frequent jumps in style and tone sometimes make him feel like an interrogator rather than an entertainer. The pace often drags in his measured descriptions of his friendship with a mentally ill Scottish beekeeper obsessed with bringing down the “Nazis” who were overtaking his town, and the narrative doesn’t cohere as well as it should with the questions The Majority asks. But the show’s concept is a fascinating one, exposing the foibles and contradictions embedded in the minds of an audience of majority white, liberal, non-male theatergoers—which is exactly the audience Drummond wants to target, although conservatives who attend might find themselves in the majority more than they’d think. When he asks people to vote on whether they believe in absolute freedom of speech, and only 38.82 percent say yes, he pauses. “Liberal,” he says, with ironic emphasis.
By the end of the 90-minute production, after Drummond has shared his disgust with himself for, as he puts it, “punching a man for having an opinion,” the audience seems shaken. When he asks us again whether it’s okay to abuse someone for something they personally believe, 87.64 percent say no. He has, essentially, converted us. But the ease with which he’s done it is yet another unnerving element to bolster his argument—that few of us really know or deeply consider what we’re voting for.


It read like a poem—or, perhaps, an elegy.
“We
strongest
this egregious
bigotry, and
no place in”
And there the words ended: paper-printed snippets of the statement President Trump had delivered on Saturday, reacting to the events that had taken place in Charlottesville. “We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry, and violence,” he had said—before adding, apparently as an ad-lib: “On many sides, on many sides.” The president repeated those words on Monday, when he made, under pressure from his colleagues and from American citizens, a more expansive statement on Charlottesville. The bigotry on display in that city, he said, reading directly from a prompter, “has no place in America.”
Trump Defends White-Nationalist Protesters: 'Some Very Fine People on Both Sides'
On Tuesday, however, those words were replaced with new ones—during a press conference, set in the lobby of Trump Tower, that was meant to be about infrastructure, but that quickly came to be about Charlottesville. At one point, President Trump removed from his jacket pocket the text of his earlier statement, printed in large and blunt sans serif, to refer to what he had said before: “I brought it, I brought it,” he said of that text, reading it once again before putting it down, figuratively and extremely literally. The Associated Press photographer Pablo Martinez Monsivais captured the moment—in which only those few words, the we and the strongest and the egregious bigotry, were visible to viewers—and the reporter Colin Campbell tweeted the results: Here was the president referring to the carefully calibrated words that had been prepared for him. And here he was, replacing them—effectively erasing them—with new ones: words that, as The New York Times summed it up, give white supremacists “an unequivocal boost.” Words that led David Duke to cheer for the new order of things.
And, also, significantly: spoken words. Words that had not been prepared or otherwise vetted, but that seemed to have come directly from the mind of the president. Words, delivered in the presence of cabinet members who had come to talk about roads and bridges—they had brought scrolls printed with construction timelines to serve as visual aids—words that reportedly left members of the president’s staff “stunned and disheartened” precisely because they were public airings of “opinions that the president had long expressed in private.” Words that regressed to Saturday’s ad-libbed false equivalence: many sides, many sides.
Tuesday’s press conference will very likely be remembered as a moment of extreme moral clarity—the moment in which the emperor, speaking in his golden chamber with the aid of scrolls and servants, revealed himself, once again, for what he is. But there was something else that crystallized in that press conference: that image of the president, taking the words of reconciliation—words that had been selected and edited and set in the permanence of print—and undoing them. The president privileging his own words, the work of a mind in a moment, over those that had been chosen for him. In an instant, the “we” of the statement had been replaced, effectively, with an “I.”
Writing suggests rationality. Writing suggests consideration. Writing suggests external memory—Plato was wary of it, for precisely this reason—but it also suggests memory that is, by default, collective. The law distinguishes between written agreements and verbal ones, between libel and slander, between words that come in the heat of the moment, essentially, and words that take their time to breathe and cool. So do most people: When you really care about something—when you want to make sure you don’t forget about it—you generally write it down.
Those distinctions, however, are considerably less meaningful when it comes to American presidents, whose words are understood to be not merely their own, but the nation’s. Presidential words are traditionally the work of many behind-the-scenes writers; even when those words are spoken and “off the cuff”—even when they’re uttered in impromptu press conferences or on whimsical comedy shows—they have still, traditionally, adopted the deliberately calibrated approaches of text. Let me be clear, President Obama would say. Read my lips, George H. W. Bush put it, ruinously.
This caution, certainly, can be a frustration to people who simply want to know what a president is thinking. There’s a reason that “scripted,” in the political context, is usually something of a slur. In a broader sense, though, the sanctity of presidential words has long been an element of the compact between the presidency and the public. He will speak intentionally, the promise goes. He will speak carefully. He will speak understanding that he is speaking not merely for himself, but for all Americans. He will speak with the knowledge that, though he may be president, his mind—his particular sense of the world—is not the only one that matters.
Donald Trump rejects these norms. He treats his Twitter feed not as President Obama treated his—as a platform through which the White House, with all the institutions embedded in it, might speak to the nation—but as a mainline to the presidential mind. All the insults. All the typos. All the statements that would seem to suggest national policy, coming as they do from the president, but that often amount simply to angry observations. When President Trump speaks, in other words, he speaks for himself—often to the surprise and occasionally to the horror of the people charged with sending messages on behalf of the White House. It’s one reason Trump’s admirers admire him: the honesty of it, the ease of it, the rip-out-the-middleman efficiency of it. President Trump tells it like it is, they note. No political correctness here. No compromise here.
The other way of looking at the president’s attitude, though, is the way that is captured so elegantly in Pablo Martinez Monsivais’s image of those curtailed notes: as a rejection of the communal nature of government. Here were words that had been printed out for the president—words that he had delivered to a wounded and weary nation. Here were words that were written down in every meaningful sense of that phrase: carefully selected by a team of committed people, with an eye toward inclusion and an aim at the sweep of history. Words that were edited, and considered, and reconsidered, and calibrated for a country that is as diverse as it is immense.
And, then: Here were those same words, undone in the span of minutes. Here was all that careful writing, and editing, and fact-checking, nullified by the president’s erroneous equivalencies, by his ad-libbed words about the “alt-left” and George Washington. Here was the American president, choosing the workings of his own mind over the workings of the presidency. On Tuesday, President Trump used printed text to remind reporters, and the country, of what he had said before—what he had read before: “We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry, and violence. It has no place in America.” The president added, shifting in subject from the plural “we” to the singular Donald Trump: “And then I went on from there.”


To the question, “Do you know the work of Randy Newman,” the answer is too often, “The guy who did the Toy Story soundtrack? ‘You’ve got a friend in me …’ that’s him, right?”
And okay, sure. He composed soundtracks to the whole Toy Story series, among other well-loved films: Ragtime, The Natural, Parenthood, Awakenings, The Paper, Maverick, A Bug’s Life, Meet the Parents, Seabiscuit, Monsters University, and more. But summing him up like that is a bit like saying, “F. Scott Fitzgerald. Wasn’t he a screenwriter?”
The Film That’s Missing From the ‘Century’s Greatest’ Lists
Because while Newman is a talented and sought-after soundtrack composer, he is also a solo artist with a catalog as original as any in popular music. It stretches back to 1968. Yet even most folks who can hum his biggest commercial hits, “Short People,” “Mama Told Me Not to Come” (popularized by Three Dog Night), and “I Love L.A.,” fail to grasp how he would be regarded in a more just and discerning world. For Randy Newman is the foremost musical satirist of his generation––and the characters he has created and themes he has explored over his career show as nuanced a grasp of America’s dark currents and humanity’s crooked timber as any songwriter has managed. In fact, there may be no one in the American songbook whose work did more to anticipate the tragicomic place the United States finds itself in today.
His latest solo album, Dark Matter, added to that corpus when it dropped earlier this month. To grasp its worthy continuities and its single disappointment, I must first take you back.
* * *
The eponymous debut album that Randy Newman released in 1968 was a portent of all that followed. Its 11 tracks might be described as rock or pop except that they were backed by a full orchestra. Poignant songs about romantic longing, like “Love Story (You and Me)” and “Living Without You,” were juxtaposed with character-driven vignettes like “So Long Dad,” darkly irreverent commentaries on the human condition like “I Think He’s Hiding” (Newman’s response to Nietzsche’s claim that “God is dead”), and “The Beehive State,” a quirky tune of ambiguous meaning set on the floor of Congress. In time all those modes would be refined, all those subjects explored.
The songwriter’s second album, 12 Songs, established his willingness to create the darkest of unreliable narrators to plumb subjects as fraught as men who prey on women, as in “Suzanne,” and America’s long history of racist minstrelsy and stereotyping. His approach carried risks as surely as Vladimir Nabokov’s decision to channel Humbert Humbert in Lolita and Norman Lear’s creation of Archie Bunker for All in the Family. Newman benefitted from coming up in an era when critics protectively explained nuanced art to mass audiences rather than trying to stoke umbrage. Here is Rolling Stone’s  Bruce Grimes in a five-star review of the album:
Randy's concern with stereotyping led him to include "Underneath the Harlem Moon," the only song on the album he didn't write. Composed in the Twenties, every line contains some of the most blatant racial typing ever set down in song: "They just live for dancin'/They're never blue for long/It's no sin to laugh or grin/That's why darkies were born." Newman follows this cut with his own contemporary parallel, "Yellow Man."
After performing these songs at the Lion's Share, Randy said, "I was afraid I might be misunderstood and someone would jump on stage and beat hell out of me." Randy Newman's songs are not heavy-handed, and his humor is rarely direct.
He comes at you from corners.
This oblique approach bore fruit on his next album. Its title track, an anti-slavery song, might have been ignored as heavy-handed or predictable if the liberal songwriter had taken a straightforward approach. Instead, Newman captured the horrors of enslavement anew with “Sail Away.” The listener only gradually comes to see that the narrator waxing poetic about the wonders of America is actually duplicitously coaxing Africans aboard a slave ship, falsely promising that once they cross the ocean, they’ll just “sing about Jesus and drink wine all day––it’s great to be an American.”  
And the B-side of the album was just as cutting. Its first song is still relevant to anyone pondering the Strangelovian strains of American jingoism. He titled it “Political Science”:
No one likes us, I don't know why
We may not be perfect, but heaven knows we try
But all around even our old friends put us down
Let's drop the big one and see what happens
We give them money, but are they grateful?
No, they're spiteful and they're hateful
They don't respect us, so let's surprise them
We'll drop the big one and pulverize them
Asia's crowded, Europe's too old
Africa's far too hot and Canada's too cold
South America stole our name
Let's drop the big one there'll be no one left to blame us
We'll save Australia, don't want to hurt no kangaroo
We'll build an all American amusement park there
They've got surfing, too
Boom goes London, boom Paris
More room for you and more room for me
And every city the whole world round
Will just be another American town
Oh, how peaceful it'll be, we'll set everybody free
You'll have Japanese kimonos, baby
There'll be Italian shoes for me
They all hate us anyhow, so let's drop the big one now
After all that, it felt like a relief to arrive at a song about the Cuyahoga River fire of 1969, when an oil slick on the polluted Cleveland waterway caught fire, inspiring lyrics that deserve immortality: “Well the Lord can make you tumble / And the Lord can make you turn / The Lord can make you overflow / But the Lord can’t make you burn.”
(Not that he lets the Lord off either.)
Rolling Stone’s list of the 500 best albums of all time includes the songwriter’s next effort, Good Old Boys. “This album is no simple character study, but a composite survey of the roots and institutionalization of Southern bigotry in the 20th century,” Winston Cook-Wilson observed in Pitchfork––“in other words, the diciest and most formidable project Randy Newman had (and has) ever attempted.” It opens with “Rednecks,” where a “good old boy” narrator recalls watching a segregationist governor on a late-night program:
Last night I saw Lester Maddox on a TV show
With some smart ass New York Jew
And the Jew laughed at Lester Maddox
And the audience laughed at Lester Maddox too
Well he may be a fool but he's our fool
If they think they're better than him they're wrong
So I went to the park and I took some paper along
And that's where I made this song
What followed might’ve compared to “Southern Man,” Neil Young’s jeremiad against racism south of the Mason Dixon line, with Newman marshaling a character to skewer his own prejudice rather than scolding, “when will you pay him back?”
But unlike Young, Newman wasn’t content to let smug Northern liberals off the hook, even by omission. Thus a turn toward the end of the song when the redneck narrator pivots to an observation laden with that worst epithet: “Down here we're too ignorant to realize / That the North has set the nigger free / Yes he's free to be put in a cage in Harlem in New York City / And he's free to be put in a cage in the South-Side of Chicago /And the West-Side /And he's free to be put in a cage in Hough in Cleveland / And he's free to be put in a cage in East St. Louis / And he's free to be put in a cage in Fillmore in San Francisco / And he's free to be put in a cage in Roxbury in Boston.”
If every last listener was uncomfortable, Newman felt he’d done his job. The song may be the most uncompromising instance, among white songwriters, of putting artistic vision before commercial concerns: Here is the first track of an album that risked offending anti-racists who misunderstood its intentions; could hardly have done more to alienate the white South; and closed by taking added shots at a literal list of Northern cities where an upcoming artist with a small following would want to perform.
As if to confound listeners even more, Newman revisited his Southern man on later tracks, showing that he was neither a misanthrope nor a one-note polemicist, for “Birmingham,” “Marie,” and “Mr. President, Have Pity on the Working Man” were as humanizing in their portrayal of their subjects as “Rednecks” was scathing and unsparing. Never has cynicism been packaged with so much sentiment. Says Mike Powell, “Newman can get an orchestra to pull tears from you like a pickpocket. His sleight-of-hand is to bring out a monster and make you see the human underneath.”
Rounding out the concept album, Good Old Boys also included perhaps the most beautiful song that Newman ever wrote, “Louisiana 1927,” and two songs distilling the populist Louisiana governor Huey P. Long, “Every Man a King” and “Kingfish.”
Quoth the latter song, told from Long’s perspective:
I'm a cracker
And you are too
But don't I take good care of you
Who built the highway to Baton Rouge?
Who put up the hospital and built you schools?
Who looks after shit-kickers like you?
The Kingfish do
Who gave a party at the Roosevelt Hotel?
And invited the whole north half of the state down there for free
The people in the city
Had their eyes bugging out
Cause everyone of you
Looked just like me
(Before Twitter, populists actually delivered spoils to their supporters rather than expecting them to stay loyal based on no more than occasional demagogic missives.)
Now let’s skip ahead to 1979. The album is Born Again, the song, “It’s Money That I Love,” a straightforward if exaggerated portrayal of an ethos you’ll no doubt recognize:
I don't love the mountains / I don't love the sea
I don't love Jesus / He never done a thing for me
I ain't pretty like my sister / Or smart like my dad
Or good like my mama
It's money that I love
It's money that I love
They say that's money / Can't buy love in this world
But it'll get you a half-pound of cocaine / And a 19-year-old girl
And a great big long limousine / On a hot September night
Now that may not be love but it is all right
A few years later, he released Trouble in Paradise, an album best known for “I Love L.A.” The song would play at the Great Western Forum during Lakers games when I was a kid, in spite of those inevitable Newman twists that distinguished it from boosterism:
From the South Bay to the Valley
From the West Side to the East Side
Everybody's very happy
'Cause the sun is shining all the time
Looks like another perfect day
I love L.A. (we love it)
I love L.A. (we love it)
We love it
Look at that mountain
Look at those trees
Look at that bum over there, man
He's down on his knees
Look at these women
There ain't nothing like 'em nowhere
While Trouble in Paradise touches on everything from apartheid to the changing demographics of Long Beach as experienced by a white old-timer who doesn’t much like his new neighbors, its best tracks, by my lights, capture the particular entitlement of wealthy Southern Californians so adeptly that I’m still marveling. The self-indicting portrait of the narrator in “Take Me Back” is deliciously subtle. And here’s a bit of “My Life Is Good,” an upbeat song that zeroes in on the essence of a character nearly anyone associated with a private school in a wealthy area has met:
The other afternoon my wife and I
Took a little ride into Beverly Hills
Went to the private school our oldest child attends
Many famous people send their children there
This teacher says to us "We have a problem here
This child just will not do a thing I tell him to.
And he's such a big old thing. He hurts the other children.
All the games they play, he plays so rough..."
Hold it teacher / Wait a minute
Maybe my ears are clogged or somethin'
Maybe I'm not understanding the English language
Dear, you don't seem to realize:
My life is good
My life is good, you old bag
So many Newman characters, for all their different milieus, share an abiding disregard for the effect that their actions and attitudes have on those around them. That theme is exaggerated for effect on a track from the 1988 album Land of Dreams:
I ran out on my children / And I ran out on my wife
Gonna run out on you too baby / I done it all my life
Everybody cried the night I left / Well almost everybody did
My little boy just hung his head / I put my arm put my arm around his little shoulder / And this is what I said:
"Sonny I just want you to hurt like I do
I just want you to hurt like I do
I just want you to hurt like I do
Honest I do honest I do, honest I do"
The same character carried his disregard for his family over to his attitudes toward the public:
If I had one wish / One dream I knew would come true
I'd want to speak to all the people of the world
I'd get up there, I'd get up there on that platform
First I'd sing a song or two (you know I would)
Then I'll tell you what I'd do
I'd talk to the people and I'd say
"It's a rough rough world, it's a tough tough world
And things don't always go the way we plan
But there's one thing we all have in common
And it's something everyone can understand
All over the world sing along
I just want you to hurt like I do ...
Honest I do, honest I do, honest I do”
Then, every so often, amid the awful characters and biting satire on Newman albums, the unreliable narrators are sent off on break, and Newman does deeply earnest with the best of them. In relief, the gut-punch quality of the songs are accentuated.
That last linked song is from Harps and Angels, a 2008 release that was, one senses, supposed to mark the conclusion of a low-point in American politics. “Just a few words in defense of our country,” a circumspect Newman began, “… whose time at the top could be coming to an end. Now, we don't want their love. And respect at this point's pretty much out of the question. But in times like these we sure could use a friend.”
The defense of the country turns out to be a widely ranging history of bygone powers far less defensible. The indictment includes a critique of War on Terror excesses.
Newman leaves us with this observation:
The end of an empire
Is messy at best
And this empire's ending
Like all the rest
Like the Spanish Armada
Adrift on the sea
We're adrift in the land of the brave
And the home of the free
When I listened to that song I started worrying, because it sounded a bit like a culmination. I thought there was a chance that Newman wouldn’t make another album. Almost a decade passed without one. And that brings us up to the present year.
* * *
My hope that there would be a new Randy Newman album was reinvigorated months ago when, without warning, a new single appeared online. Its title: “Putin.” So political events had drawn the master satirist back to the piano! The song is told from the perspectives of a chorus of sycophants and the Russian leader himself, as in this scene, inspired by Putin’s geopolitical incursions into Crimea and its coastline:
He and his ex-wife Lyudmila are riding along the shore of the beautiful new Russian Black Sea
Let's listen in, a great man is speaking:
“We fought a war for this?
I'm almost ashamed
The Mediterranean
Now there's a resort worth fighting for”
“Putin” made me want a new Randy Newman album like I want a new season of The Wire; like I want Brian Wilson and Paul McCartney to collaborate writing songs for an HBO alt-history series about Brian joining Paul, John, and George in a supergroup circa 1969; like I want lost chapters of Don Quixote to be discovered in Salamanca.
And I kept imagining what the song after “Putin” might be.
Here was a songwriter who had excelled at commenting on politics; on Southern white populism; on “America First” jingoism; on nuclear war; on characters who love nothing more than money; on entitled men who prey on women, betray wives, chase women, and narcissistically crave public attention. What would the greatest musical satirist of his generation, who approaches nearly every subject obliquely, say about Donald Trump, a figure more ripe than any other for his dark humor and tragicomedy?
The new album, Dark Matter, is a delight. Its title track is a meditation on the relationship between science and religion in Newman’s inimitable style. And as it turned out, the song after “Putin,” “Lost Without You,” is one of those earnest Newman gut-punches: A widow speaks to his deceased wife, recounting the last time she saw their adult children and the instructions she gave about what to do when she’s gone:
Hush up, children
Let me breathe
I've been listening to you all your life
Are they hungry, are they sick?
What is it they need?
Now it's your turn to listen to me
I was young when we met
And afraid of the world
Now it's he who's afraid
And I'm leaving
Make sure he sleeps in his bed at night
Don't let him sleep in that chair
If he holds out his hand to you, hold it tight
If that makes you uncomfortable
Or if it embarrasses you
I don't care.
A Trump song never did come––and I got over it. Maybe this moment is too new to capture. In fact, I began to think, maybe Randy Newman has already given us everything there is to say about Trump and Trumpism in bits and pieces over the years. But then I listened to his recent interview with Marc Maron. Of course the president came up. And the songwriter mentioned that he might have found a way to write about the man––that a song with an oblique approach was rattling around in his head.
And okay, sure, I know there are concerts to perform to promote his new album; more films to score; Grammys to win; and golden years to enjoy; but I can’t help thinking that Newman could conceivably still have his best album in him. So if a single titled “Ivanka” drops one day, I’ll drop everything to listen. And if that appears on a final concept album? I’d say, “The country turns its lonely eyes to who? Randy Newman.”


Open any issue of The Wicked + The Divine, the critically acclaimed modern-fantasy series from Image Comics, and the first thing you see is spectacle and sound. Jamie McKelvie’s art breathes life into the stories of 12 gods reincarnated as pop stars: When one deity puts on a rock show, crackling energy explodes across the page, like music at the loudest and most impressive concert you’ve ever been to. The snap of a god’s fingers can make a cigarette flair into life—or cause a head to explode. Kieron Gillen’s dialogue flashes out across the panels, some witty, some heartfelt, some magical. It’s all brilliant work by two creators at the top of their game. But without the additional contributions of talents like the colorist Matthew Wilson and the letterer Clayton Cowles, it would all fall flat.
Though they rarely get the acclaim of superstar artists and writers, colorists and letterers are the secret sauce behind most comic-book storytelling. Colorists are the cinematographers of graphic narrative, laying hues over art to control mood and style; letterers are the sound designers, crafting fonts, effects, and speech balloons to bring noise to a silent medium. Both often operate behind the scenes. But as comics gain more mainstream attention, many in both fields are pushing for greater recognition of their contributions.  
In comics, it’s a truism that the best coloring and lettering is the sort you don’t notice. The goal of both disciplines is to meld so harmoniously with the underlying pencil art that they nearly disappear. Yet both are deeply intertwined with the more playful side of cartooning. The result is a delicate balancing act between fundamental principles and individual experimentation.
For Joe Caramagna, a letterer who’s worked on several Marvel books including Daredevil, Black Widow, and The Amazing Spider-Man, the no-frills approach is usually the way to go. When he gets a script, he pastes dialogue into digital-lettering templates, before working out balloon positioning and flow. For a new series, he’ll pick a font he that feels works with the look of the book. “I try to keep the lettering as clean and classic-looking as possible because I don’t want to try to upstage the art,” Caramagna told me.
It’s the letterer’s primary job to arrange speech balloons in ways that don’t obscure the art, and that lead the eye through the natural rhythms of a conversation. Legibility and clarity are vital: It should be obvious at a glance who’s speaking, and when. But letterers also have to calibrate their work to the art itself. “I’ve had editors ask for me to give a [word] balloon a loud screaming effect, because they want the moment to be bigger and more dramatic,” Caramagna said. “But the artist drew the character as steaming, not screaming. So it doesn’t work.”
Other letterers are a bit more experimental. For example, Deron Bennett (Batgirl, Batman, and Tale of Sand) likes to occasionally flex his creative muscles, and tap into his interest in typography and design. When the script calls for it, Bennett works out ways to show word balloons as if they’re underwater, or coming from behind glass or force fields. Working on the book Hacktivist from the imprint Archaia, Bennett developed a clever way of signaling dialogue in a foreign language; when multiple languages are present in the dialogue, each is written in a different color, with a bit of calligraphy from the language in question attached.
“We were going to be slipping in and out of different languages, and leaving a note each time would have been visual clutter,” Bennett said of Hacktivist. “So I looked at what we do to suggest singing in comics—a simple music note on the side of a balloon. I decided if I could just symbolize the language in the same way, it should work in distinguishing what was being spoken.” The result is intuitive and unobtrusive, as the best lettering often is.
While coloring might seem more flashy, it’s also a careful balance between individual flair and the needs of the underlying art. Colorists these days usually work digitally, painting over the pencils or inks provided by the series’ artists, using cues from scripts and art and conversations with writers to decide on tone. “The overall mood to the book is throughout the script and context for the larger story,” said Jordie Bellaire, the colorist of Moon Knight, Injection, and Hawkeye. “That informs the way the colors should feel as well. I try to keep myself open to the art and writing to try new things ... for things like speed and action, I try to find the simplest and most believable route to create an effect.”
Years before he began working on The Wicked + The Divine, Matthew Wilson started out at Zylonol Studios, a coloring outfit run by another artist. Initially he scanned original art and did technical work before moving on to color separation, a process where hand-colored work was reproduced in digital files. (The ubiquity of digital drawing now basically means this doesn’t exist anymore.) Eventually Wilson was making enough at Zylonol that he was able to branch out, taking on freelance coloring projects, gaining critical attention, and moving onto bigger books, including Daredevil, Black Widow, Paper Girls, and many others. “After 14 years of working at home, I’m totally unqualified to do anything other than color a comic book at this point,” Wilson said. “I’ve digitally painted myself into a corner!”
In 2013, Wilson teamed up with Gillen, McKelvie, and the letterer Clayton Cowles to produce Young Avengers, a critical and fan-favorite relaunch of a 2005 Marvel property. Wilson had previously worked with Gillen and McKelvie on their book Phonogram, and as they finished Young Avengers, Gillen and McKelvie invited both men onto a new, creator-owned project they were planning. In 2014, the book came out under the name The Wicked + The Divine. The book stars a dozen gods, incarnated in young-adult form as pop stars: Lucifer arrives looking like Bowie’s Thin White Duke, Inanna has shades of Prince, Sakhmet bears a close resemblance to Rihanna. They are loved and hated; within two years, they are dead. The plot is a snappy stew of arena-rock spectacle, superhero soap opera, and meticulously plotted murder mystery.
Early on, the team experimented a great deal with The Wicked + The Divine’s look, trying to nail down the signature colors of the gods. Then came figuring out how to make the colors really sing. All agreed that the magical performances and miracles needed to pop off the page. “I set up a lot of the non-performance/miracle stuff to be a bit more subdued, so that by comparison the bright colors I use when the gods show off seem even more colorful and extraordinary,” Wilson said.
In Issue #8, the teenage protagonist Laura Wilson goes to a rave thrown by the god Dionysus. Gillen wanted imagery that communicated the feeling of being high at a party; after thinking about it, Wilson used shifting gradients of hues to wash out the linework and communicate the speed and pulse of the music. “Even when the gods in this comic are basically doing big superhero fights, we’ve always wanted their powers to look and feel different than a typical superhero book,” Wilson explained. “We look at a lot of fashion photography, music videos, and art installations to draw inspiration for the look of the gods and their powers.”
Other performances were trickier to sell, though. “Kieron [Gillen] writes these incredibly abstract ideas, which evoke some amazing imagery, but are sometimes a bit tough to actually depict,” Wilson said. “Kieron’s script will say something like, ‘and their powers are waves of extreme nothingness pouring over the crowd’ and then I have to go figure out what fucking color ‘extreme nothingness’ is.”
In a book about music and murder, how the characters speak is also pretty important, which is where Cowles comes in. He has worked as a letterer on books including Bitch Planet, Batman, and Journey Into Mystery, the latter of which was also a Gillen project. Cowles said his lettering philosophy is “enhance, don’t distract,” though WicDiv offers plenty of opportunities to play around. There’s only one consistent sound effect in the book: the “KLLLK” of a finger-snap, which starts the story off and accompanies many of its more shocking moments. The rest is up for grabs.
While civilian characters speak in traditional balloons, Cowles decided that the gods’ voices in WicDiv would come in the same colors Wilson uses for their respective costumes. He also used custom lettering styles for specific characters, like Woden, a creepy, Daft Punk-influenced god. “Kieron wanted Woden to employ super- and subscripting to imitate the sound of a vocoder,” Cowles said. “I added a few of my own flourishes, like making Woden’s balloons square ... I take a similar approach to both character voices and sound effects. Through fonts, shape, and color, I try to make them look the way they sound.”
The Wicked + The Divine has been a resounding success for all concerned, selling well in both single issues and trade paperbacks, and picking up a deeply devoted following. (It’s also been optioned for a potential TV show by Universal, though there’s been little public movement on that front.) As beloved as the project is, however, everyone involved has to keep working.
Like many other creators in the comics industry these days, colorists and letterers are freelancers, moving between projects and publishers as money and oppurtunities dictate. Colorists and other creators typically sign a generic work-for-hire contract, which covers all the work they do for the publisher. (Contracts tying a colorist exclusively to a publisher will often have a timeline or number of issues spelled out, and stipulate what kind of side-work for other publishers is acceptable. According to Bellaire, typical page rates can run anywhere from $25 to $200 per page, depending on how senior you are in the industry. For letterers, it’s sometimes a different story—Caramagna and Cowles both work for Virtual Calligraphy, a lettering studio that is under contract to Marvel and thus provides relatively steady work.
Compensation and royalties can still be shaky, however. DC Comics added colorists to their royalty program a few years ago, Wilson said, but such steps forward have been accompanied by rates at other companies declining even as issue sales stay steady. Then there’s the occasional neglect colorists and letterers face from the editorial arms of the publishers, especially compared to writers.“Sometimes Joe the Letterer doesn’t know a book he’s been lettering every month has been cancelled until he sees it on Twitter,” Caramagna said. “I’d rather have Joe the Writer and Joe the Letterer have a similar experience when dealing with the publisher than get a vanity boost from seeing my name on a cover.”
But colorists and letterers do pop up on comic covers more often these days. In fact, the last few years have seen a real change in the way both disciplines are viewed by audiences. Comics journalists on websites like The Beat and the sadly defunct Comics Alliance often spotlight both disciplines, and creators often have devoted followings on social media. “It’s more common to see interviews with colorists now, both in articles and podcasts,” Wilson said. “When I started there was no YouTube or Twitch, and with those new outlets you can watch comics artists and colorists creating their work and explaining their process. It’s all much more open, and it’s allowed colorists to come a long way in terms of visibility.”
If nothing else, there’s always the respect of your peers. Bellaire has won two Eisner Awards—the comics equivalent of the Oscars—for her work, and Caramagna and Bennett have picked up nominations. The awards are based on the work of the comics giant Will Eisner, himself no slouch when it came to inventive lettering and colors. This year, Wilson won for Best Colorist, partly for his work on The Wicked + The Divine. It’s not quite being a god; but it’s nice to be recognized for your role in making the magic.


“I’m not allowed to joke anymore. I’ve learned that.”
All evidence, however, to the contrary. Anthony Scaramucci, the former communications director for the Trump White House, had come to his appearance on The Late Show With Stephen Colbert on Monday night prepared to be charming. He had come prepared to be self-deprecating. He had come prepared to make light—of his short tenure at the White House (“I didn’t think I’d last too long, but I thought I’d last longer than a carton of milk!”); of the New Yorker interview that led to his firing (“This conversation’s off the record! It’s off the record!”); of the combative relationship he’d fostered with his fellow White House staffers and with the media who document their doings (Scaramucci brought Colbert, as a cheeky nod to all that, a Bowie knife in a glass case).
‘He Is Not a President’
Scaramucci’s appearance had been booked last week (in an ironic twist—a mixup, apparently, on the part of Scaramucci’s communications team—he had agreed to two “exclusive” interviews post-firing, one with Colbert, and the other with ABC’s George Stephanopoulos). The interview with Colbert had been scheduled, in other words, before the tragedies of Charlottesville. It had been set before Scaramucci’s former boss had made his “on many sides, on many sides” hedge about the source of the hatred and violence—and before the events of a weekend had adopted the dimensions of a national moral crisis.
Scaramucci, however, seemed not to have fully calibrated for that new reality. He had come prepared to treat the appearance as he and his PR team had originally intended it—a bold first step in a brand-rehabilitation tour—and he stuck, again and again, to that script. Scaramucci yukked. (“I’ll pretend those are ‘Mooches’ and not boos, Stephen,” he said, good-naturedly, as the studio audience expressed its displeasure when he walked onstage.) He brought a pair of sunglasses for full Mooch effect. While taping the appearance, he posted a selfie outside of a bathroom on the Late Show set. “It’s not where you’ve been, it’s where you are going,” he tweeted, as a caption to that photo.
Colbert, however, had adjusted to the new state of affairs. He had devoted his monologue, on Monday, to Charlottesville—its hatred, its violence, its aftermath. And he had in particular condemned President Trump for his “many sides” comment. Colbert was doing what late-night comedians, more and more commonly, are doing: serving as arbiters, not just of humor but of morality. “It is difficult to express how heartbreaking it is to see something like this happening in our country,” Colbert noted. “But here’s one thing that’s not difficult to express: Nazis are bad. The KKK: I’m not a fan. That wasn’t hard. That was easy. I enjoyed saying it.”
The host brought that spirit into his interview with the man who had been so famously eager to join the Trump administration. He tried to talk with Scaramucci—not about “the Mooch,” but about the events of the past weekend. “I said no gotcha questions, I promised you no gotcha questions,” Colbert told Scaramucci, at the outset. “But I’m gonna lead with one: Nazis—good or bad?”
“Super bad,” Scaramucci replied.

Colbert asked Scaramucci about the statement the president finally issued on Monday, the one in which he personally condemned neo-Nazis, the Ku Klux Klan, and other white-supremacist hate groups.
“It was late, I’m not going to say that it wasn’t,” Scaramucci replied. (He had also criticized Trump to that effect in his interview with Stephanopoulos.) “But he did go to the White House today and he did make a statement,” Scaramucci continued, “that was very declarative against it.”
Colbert pointed out that the president’s “on many sides” comment had apparently been added, as his own ad-lib, to his official statement in response to Charlottesville. “Which one of them do you think he meant,” he asked Scaramucci—“the one that was written down, or the one that he just comes up with, in the moment?”
Scaramucci’s reply? “You guys have been super-rough on me,” he said. “You’ve been super-rough on him. But he is a compassionate person.”
Scaramucci defended the president as someone who was, in his comments about Charlottesville, simply “wearing his heart on his sleeve.” He talked about how the president had given up his “luxurious lifestyle” to become the president in the first place. He talked about the sacrifices the president has made to be in a position of leadership. And he talked about the sacrifices he himself had made to be there: “Being a communications director is a difficult job,” Scaramucci interjected, at one point, grinning.
Later, Colbert moved on to Scaramucci’s former White House colleague, Steve Bannon. He asked Scaramucci whether Bannon should be fired. Yes, Scaramucci replied—at least, he thought so. “Is Steve Bannon a white supremacist?” Colbert asked.
“I don’t think he’s a white supremacist, although I’ve never asked him,” Scaramucci replied. And then: “What I don’t like though is the toleration of it. It’s something that should be completely and totally intolerated.”
He added: “Most people in this audience, and perhaps your family, and definitely my family, has experienced some level of discrimination. And so I find it disgusting and reprehensible. And I will renounce it every living day of my life.”
There was a distinct teeth-pulling quality to all this: Colbert kept trying to talk about the world; Scaramucci kept trying to talk about himself. The Late Show versus The Mooch Show. Scaramucci answered Colbert’s questions—again and again, though, he tried to bring things back to the thing that had brought him to The Late Show to begin with: his own reputation. His own apparent desire to be seen and known not just as Anthony Scaramucci, fired communications director for an embattled White House, but also as “the Mooch”: whimsical, delightful, slick of suit and even slicker of words. A media event unto himself. A distracting laugh.
At the end of the interview, Scaramucci brought out the Bowie knife he had enclosed in a glass case for the occasion. “I got gifts for Stephen, okay?” he said, pulling the sunglasses he had also brought as a prop out of his jacket pocket. “After he hit me so hard for three weeks, he thought I was gonna stab him with that,” he explained to the audience, of the gift. “That’s why it’s in the case, the hermetically sealed case.”
The joke landed with a thud. Scaramucci had joined Colbert as an act of brand rehabilitation; his appearance, however, ended up accomplishing something very different. It made Scaramucci into a metaphor—for glibness, for myopia, for a way of being in the world that looks on hatred and violence and isn’t sure what to do but make light of it all. I’m not allowed to joke anymore, Scaramucci had told Colbert, at the outset of his interview. I’ve learned that. The line would have been more convincing if it hadn’t been for the one that had preceded it: “I’m kidding!” Scaramucci had said, after telling Colbert that the interview would be off the record. “I’m kidding.”


At this point, seven months into the Trump presidency, late-night hosts have gotten a thorough grounding in reacting to things that would have been unimaginable a year or so ago. Seth Meyers, who made a promise the day after the election that he’d “be watching” closely for the next four years, has excoriated the 45th president on an almost nightly basis, interrogating his advisers and mocking Trump’s reportedly short attention span by presenting foreign-policy briefings in limerick form.
The exact role political entertainers should play has been up for debate long before Jon Stewart gave up his Comedy Central perch at The Daily Show, and the lines have only blurred further in the Trump era. Are Meyers and his ilk comedians? Journalists? The new public intellectuals? But on Monday night, Meyers and his NBC stablemate Jimmy Fallon seemed to redefine themselves as something different again: arbiters of a national moral compass that sometimes feels increasingly skewed. In two powerful, impassioned monologues, the hosts took pains to denounce white supremacy and racism in a way that both argued the president had delegitimized himself by failing to do.
Waiting for the Conservative Jon Stewart
For Fallon, who was widely critiqued in September for ruffling Trump’s hair on his show rather than addressing any substantive political issues, the moment was uncharacteristically serious, and sad. “Even though The Tonight Show isn’t a political show, it’s my responsibility to stand up against intolerance and extremism as a human being,” he said. Watching what happened in Charlottesville over the weekend, Fallon explained, and seeing “Nazi flags and torches and white supremacists … I was sick to my stomach.” Speaking of his daughters, who are 2 and 4, he wondered, “How can I explain to them that there’s so much hatred in this world?” At times he seemed close to tears, particularly when he praised Heather Heyer, the 32-year-old protester who was killed when she was hit by a car allegedly driven into a crowd by a white supremacist.
It was an act Meyers later described as a “terror attack on American soil … a horrifying incident that left most of the country stunned.” And yet, he said, rather than denounce the hatred that had motivated it, the president blamed the “many sides” participating in the protests. “If that choice of words made you feel sick to your stomach,” Meyers said, “the good news is you’re a normal and decent person. The jury’s still out on the president.”
It was an extraordinary denunciation of a sitting president on network television, not for being corrupt, or inept, or dishonest, but for being fundamentally morally flawed. “The leader of our country is called the president because he’s supposed to preside over our society,” Meyers said. “His job is to lead, to cajole, to scold, to correct our path, to lift up what is good about us, and to absolutely and unequivocally and immediately condemn what is evil in us. And if he does not do that, if he does not preside over our society, then he is not a president.”
Fallon, who has perhaps struggled more than some of his politically oriented peers at a moment when politics are unavoidable, found a similar gear, although he was less outraged and more dismayed. His kids, he said, who play joyfully with other kids of all races, “need people to look up to … they need parents and teachers, and they need leaders who appeal to the best in us.” President Trump, he implied, was simply failing them in that regard. The fact that it took the president two days to openly denounce white supremacy, he said, “is shameful.”
And yet, Fallon and Meyers both argued, it isn’t just kids who need people to look up to. It’s the whole country. “We all need to stand against what is wrong, acknowledge that racism exists, and stand up for what is right and civil and kind,” Fallon said. “And to show the next generation that we haven’t forgotten how hard people have fought for human rights. We cannot do this. We can’t go backward.” The message was that President Trump, who fanned the flames of racism when he encouraged the perception that the first black president wasn’t American, was dragging the entire country down. Meyers reminded viewers that Trump was often “written off as a clown” during the 2016 campaign, but that now his impact on the country was becoming clearer. “Now,” Meyers said, “white supremacists and American Nazis are visible and energetic and demonstrative in a way we’ve not seen in our lifetimes.”
By affirming to their viewers that the president is morally bankrupt, the two NBC comedians took a big gamble. On the one hand, it’s easy (and makes for good PR) to publicly denounce racism and bigotry. On the other, both entertainers risk alienating the 34 percent of the population that approves of Trump’s presidency. But the point they seemed to make was that it didn’t matter—that in this specific moment, there are simple choices everyone has to make between doing what’s right and doing what’s easy. The president, both implied, has always done the latter, and thus his leadership isn’t a model. But who can step into the void? It’s a role that, not too long ago, no one would have expected comedians to play. And yet here were two Saturday Night Live alums, taking advantage of their sizable public platforms to remind Americans to reject “evil” and instead to seek out the better angels of their nature.


We live in an era of cinema that’s often too reliant on sequels, on an endless churn of the same, formulaic stories pumped out year after year. But one franchise seems immune to the diminishing returns of multiple follow-ups: The Trip, a series of movies now on its third entry about two middle-aged British men eating very expensive dinners together. The Trip sticks to a rigid format, explores the unchanging dynamic between the performers Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon (both playing semi-fictionalized versions of themselves), and has featured them doing extended dueling impressions of Michael Caine at each other in every film.
Somehow, The Trip to Spain, which opened in theaters Friday, might be the funniest movie yet in this curious little franchise, which marries improvised conversations with high-end food porn and Coogan’s blunt, particularly self-loathing brand of humor. The installments barely count as films at all—they’re cut-down versions of a sporadic, six-episodes-per-season television series that airs in the UK. But the director Michael Winterbottom, a movie veteran who enjoys blurring the lines between fiction and reality, makes each entry feel like a complete, satisfying narrative, even giving The Trip to Spain an absurd twist ending that pokes fun at the idea of producing another edition one day.
How Steve Coogan Found the Laughs in 'Philomena'
The rapport between Coogan and Brydon, longtime collaborators who also worked together on Winterbottom’s fourth-wall-breaking 2005 film Tristram Shandy: A Cock and Bull Story, holds fast in The Trip to Spain. Coogan is the international icon, a British comedy legend who has transcended the cult status TV shows like I’m Alan Partridge afforded him in the 1990s and become a major movie star. Or so he thinks—in each Trip, Coogan’s ego exceeds his actual celebrity, and he’s beset by annoying calls from his agents and managers haggling with him over future projects, reminding him that he’s mostly a pop-culture footnote in the United States.
Brydon, meanwhile, is far more settled in his life as a popular UK comedian, self-aware about his diminished stature compared to Coogan but charmingly content all the same. A master impressionist whose work as a stand-up, sitcom creator, and character actor has sustained him in Britain for some 25 years, Brydon frequently succeeds at inadvertently needling Coogan and bursting his bubble of self-importance, especially as they discuss the local cuisines and cultures of whichever region they’re traveling through.
In The Trip to Spain, Coogan is slightly more relaxed than in previous entries, seemingly buoyed by the success of his 2013 drama Philomena, which he starred in and co-wrote, and which netted him two Oscar nominations. His personal life in the movie remains chaotic, as he’s embroiled in an affair with a married actress (the films also feature fictionalized versions of Coogan’s son, and Brydon’s wife and children), but there’s a tinge of calm melancholy to his outlook. Both he and Brydon are now over the age of 50 and less interested in the melodrama of their younger years.
Watching Coogan and Brydon bounce off each other in the Trip films is the simplest of pleasures. The pair have a perfect combination of familiarity and playful desire for one-upmanship. Each joke premise suggested over dinner has to be plumbed to exhaustion; each celebrity impression, particularly their fascination with Caine, becomes a ridiculous joust, with the duo finding new nuances and physical details in their impersonations.
Brydon, in the past, has always come out on top in this regard, since Coogan’s comic skills rely on original characters and improvisation. But in The Trip to Spain, it’s clear that Coogan has been working hard behind the scenes: For the first time I genuinely thought he got the better of Brydon on a number of occasions. Aside from their little performances, Coogan and Brydon spend most of their time reflecting on their youth and trying to outdo each other’s historical knowledge of whatever town they’re in, with Coogan holding particular romantic, literary delusions of his life on the road (The Trip to Spain even has the pair dress up as Don Quixote and Sancho Panza at one point).
It’d be fair to say this all sounds insufferable—being trapped at the table with two comedians constantly trying to make the other laugh. But Coogan, Brydon, and Winterbottom have found the right way to balance out the silliness with introspection. The genius of Coogan’s career lies in his willingness to embrace the darker side of his personality. In the Trip films he’s not afraid to mock himself as an embittered prima donna and then let the audience see him struggle, behind the scenes, to get his next project off the ground. Brydon remains the ideal foil for Coogan and his wild mood swings, a sidekick whose happiness with his place in life consistently irritates his pal, to hilarious effect.
The films in this franchise are also just wonderful to look at, each taking in the rolling countryside of their settings (Northern England, Italy, and Spain) and the haute cuisine they eat along the way (the extended TV version is even heavier on the food porn). The Trip to Spain is, for the most part, a gentle, relaxing delight, with just enough uproarious conversation and a touch of regret. In other words, it’s a perfect piece of British comedy comfort food.


The seven helium-filled white globes that hover, swarm, and form kaleidoscopic patterns above visitors to London’s Roundhouse are neither friend nor foe—they’re inanimate drones programmed by an algorithm to move, and to respond in turn to the various movements of people below them. And yet their behavior is familiarly, unsettlingly alive. They seem curious at some points, breaking away from their pack to investigate individuals on the ground. They’re menacing at others, gliding gracefully into imposing structures overhead. They’re sometimes clumsy, colliding with each other and veering awkwardly upward. And they’re mesmerizing, evoking entities as disparate as birds and bacteria in the ways they gently dance and dip under the Roundhouse’s domed ceiling.
The balloon-drones are Zoological, a flock of “autonomous, flying spheres” created for the installation +/- Human by the studio Random International, the artists best known for Rain Room. That work, which debuted at London’s Barbican in 2012, helped usher in a new age of Instagram-friendly immersive artworks, attracting day-long lines when it moved to New York’s Museum of Modern Art prior to a 15-month stint at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. But where Rain Room allowed visitors to feel omnipotent, walking freely through a room of falling water without getting wet, Zoological encourages a sense of vulnerability. The ever-shifting constellations overhead are beautiful and unsettling: They catalog and respond to human behavior. This is an artwork that you observe while aware that it’s observing you right back.
Art for Instagram’s Sake
+/- Human includes dance performances choreographed by Wayne McGregor, devised to provoke and create new patterns of movement as the dancers and the spheres interact. During the day, visitors can simply enter the Roundhouse’s space and move around underneath Zoological, which is accompanied by original music composed by Warp Records’s Mark Pritchard. The score is pivotal, offering ethereal layers of electronic harmonies, and then jarring, discordant sounds of exaggerated humming or screeching. At times the room feels like a scene from Denis Villeneuve’s Arrival; at others like a particularly traumatic episode of Black Mirror. The drones are benign, staying out of arm’s reach, but their behavior—both pre-programmed and responsive—is impossible to predict.
Zoological, as a work, seems intended to play on subconscious anxieties about everything from driverless cars to alien invasions to mutating pathogens. The ways in which the spheres rise and fall around each other mimic the ways birds fly, and bugs swarm, and computers generate graphics that move to music. It’s eerily familiar, but inhuman. Random International describes the work as “an amplified and physical manifestation of our lived experience in a world increasingly run by algorithms,”  and its rendering of our uncertain, symbiotic, increasingly dependent relationship with machines and code captures the flux of an era in which technology is evolving faster than our ability to devise ethical frameworks for it. The spheres in Zoological are harmless, but for how long?
It’s perhaps less instantly gratifying and joyful than Rain Room, but much more thought-provoking. It’s also of a piece with other recent works of art and entertainment that try to wrestle with how drones are changing the nature of warfare or how technology will ruin humanity if we’re not perpetually vigilant. It’s a theme Random International has considered over and over, in a series of “Swarm Studies” that examine and mimic collective behavior, and in works that reflect the human form in motion as pinpricks of light. Zoological, fascinating and occasionally alarming, encourages engagement, but the underlying note is one of caution.


Scan today’s headlines and climate change in the Anthropocene might appear horrifyingly novel: Manmade monstrosities like the Great Pacific Garbage Patch and “dead zones” seem like problems unique to the contemporary era. The human response that such devastation demands, however, may sound familiar to students of history.
The British author Paul Kingsnorth, for one, knows that humans have experienced the end of the world, or at least, of their world, before. As he writes in an appendix to his 2014 novel The Wake: “The Norman invasion and occupation of England was probably the most catastrophic single event in this nation’s history. It brought slaughter, famine, scorched-earth warfare, slavery, and widespread land confiscation.” The unprecedented ferocity of the invasion, he explains, brought about an almost complete break with the pre-Norman past. In short order, an entire world vanished. The Wake, which was longlisted for the Man Booker Prize and is the first volume of a planned trilogy, is set against this tumultuous historical backdrop—it tells an audacious story of how humans have always found ways to survive an apocalypse.
Climate Fiction: Can Books Save the Planet?
Now, Kingsnorth, a former climate-science journalist turned novelist who has long explored the interplay between society and environmental collapse, has a new installment, Beast, that follows a similar theme: It’s the present-day tale of a man searching for alternatives to the superficial consumer culture responsible for ecological degradation. Leaving his family and job behind, the protagonist Edward Buckmaster instead spends his time tracking a mysterious black beast, emitting a kind of optimistic fatalism along the way. In both works, tremendous loss is balanced by a belief that humans are at least as tenacious as catastrophe is relentless. And in both works, Kingsnorth makes clear, ruin, as well as hope, are perpetually present and perpetually incomplete.
***
When it was first published, The Wake garnered attention for its use of a fabricated language, a charmingly creative hybrid between Old English and contemporary conversational British English. Its plot is somewhat more straightforward than a glance at the text might suggest: A tenacious, wealthy, Anglo-Saxon landowner named Buccmaster of Holland has everything taken from him by the invading Normans: children killed amid fighting, wife murdered and burned along with his home, lands despoiled. With his old life destroyed, he takes to the woods, becoming something of a dark, irascible, half-insane Robin Hood. As he travels through what was once England, the scope of the devastation and loss becomes almost more than he can bear.
What this thumbnail sketch of action fails to convey is the beauty and force of the novel’s invented language. In one passage, Buccmaster pauses near a village called Bacstune and looks at an oak tree, rubbing his hands along its trunk:
i was locan at an ac treow and i put my hand on its great stocc … it had seemed to me that this treow was anglisc as the ground it is frown from anglisc as we who is grown also from that ground. but if the frenc cums and tacs this land and gifs these treows sum frenc name they will not be the same treows no more.
If it seems strange at first, after reading a few pages, Kingsnorth’s language coalesces into meaningful narrative. Buccmaster realizes that the tree will come to be renamed something else by the French invaders, and the new name will fundamentally change what the tree is. He draws a parallel between English trees and English people, insinuating that both would be irreparably changed by the invasion. Changed, and yet, as Kingsnorth’s operative logic would have it, still surviving in altered form.
Kingsnorth invented this hybrid “shadow tongue” (his term) for the novel; in an appendix, he explains that he did so not only because he doesn’t personally care for historical fiction written in contemporary idiom, but also because “The early English did not see the world as we do, and their language reflects this … I wanted to be able to convey … the sheer alienness of Old England.” As a reader, you’ll feel the shock of the uncanny, but likely also a sense of recognition, of a dead language remixed with something like Twitter grammar. In striking this delicate balance, Kingsnorth shakes you out of complacency. It’s Brecht’s Verfremdungseffekt in reverse, with the unfamiliar being made just approachable enough to keep you interested. The effect is jarring and strange, like a half-remembered dream with lingering emotional residue.
Beast, Kingsnorth’s new novel, isn’t written in a shadow tongue. But the voice that the author gives his protagonist Edward Buckmaster is nonetheless possessed by a frenetic, searching energy:
From the east I came, to this high place, to be broken, to be torn apart, beaten, cut into pieces. I came here to measure myself against the great emptiness. I came here to touch the void, to leap naked into it with the shards of what I was falling around me, to have the void clean me of the smallness that I swam in.
Again, much of the power and significance of the story is bound up in the language itself. And, though separated by a thousand years of history and tumult, the potentially related Buckmaster and Buccmaster appear to be echoing the same story—one of loss, degradation, and a burning hunger for things to be other than as they are.
Making his way through Earth’s environmental and cultural decline (the “smallness” that he “swam in”), Buckmaster, it’s clear, longs for a wild transformation. He isn’t so much abandoning the world to hide out in the moors, as reclaiming (some might say melodramatically) a depth and dignity that are being destroyed by the inane demands of a throwaway culture. Buckmaster wants to trade in online shopping for crop cultivation, mall walking for hunting. Like Buccmaster, he wants back what was taken from him, the full scope of his identity as a human being: “Everything led up to me and everything I was would lead beyond me there was this great chain and I was a link in it. The past and the future they were nothing they came together and parted again.” Over the course of the novel, Buckmaster’s almost mystical connection to the way that his ancestors lived seems to be simultaneously a source of strength and a precious resource that he must actively tend to.
The prose in Beast is taut, bare. There is no specific mention of names of individuals or places, only general terms like “the city” and “people.” The vagueness is a stylistic choice, but it also serves Kingsnorth’s philosophical purposes. By keeping the specifics of our dying world at arm’s length, his prose winnows down textual reality to approximate essentials. He doesn’t just show us a man surviving, he uses language to illustrate how humans might define survival in the first place.
***
Kingsnorth has spent a lot of his life thinking about how to keep people interested in climate change, a subject so vast and so intimate that it defies comprehension even as it shapes our lives. And in 2008 he had a revelation: The environmental apocalypse was inescapable. As he explains in a Boston Review interview: “When I worked at The Independent in 1995, I was obsessed with climate change, but nobody on that newspaper was interested and nothing on it ever got published. I remember thinking, ‘If only we could get climate change on to the front page, things would really change.’ Well, now it is on the front pages very often, and everybody knows about it, and the politicians and business leaders all know about it, and yet nothing’s changed.”
If half of Kingsnorth’s perspective is shaped by the inevitability of chaos, then the other half is formed by his faith in humans being able to live through that same chaos. What keeps his perspective from being completely dystopian is his belief in people being able to, at least individually, alter their lives to adjust to even the most dramatic changes. Kingsnorth, for one, went “back to the land,” trying his hand at subsistence farming with his family on a plot of ground in Ireland. He also founded the Dark Mountain Project, a collective of artists and thinkers who share Kingsnorth’s assumptions about pending environmental (and, thus, political and economic) collapse. And he began writing novels.
Ultimately, it’s Kingsnorth’s faith in the ingenuity of the human spirit that make his ideas—spelled out compellingly in his work—as inspiring as they are realistic. Worlds have ended, in a sense, before. The plague decimated cities in 17th-century England. Academics still debate whether the staggering number of indigenous American deaths post-European colonization should be called a “genocide” or a “holocaust.” Entire generations were lost in world wars and to the Spanish flu. With these colossal changes in mind, Kingsnorth’s writing can be taken as a hopeful message from collective human history about persisting amid a semi-permanent state of catastrophe.
It’s significant that Beast begins with the sensation of a cool river and ends in media res with Buckmaster reporting that he sees “a scrap of tarpaulin an upturned tub a c.” The novel, its unique prose raw with austere energy, demands close observation. It opens the reader’s eyes to impending destruction while simultaneously promising that survival is possible. Inevitable, even. Perhaps the specifics of that survival await a more nuanced articulation, but, for now, what Beast proffers is access to the minds and emotional lives of characters who endure.


Every week for the seventh season of Game of Thrones, three Atlantic staffers will discuss new episodes of the HBO drama. Because no screeners were made available to critics in advance this year, we’ll be posting our thoughts in installments.
David Sims: This late in its run, Game of Thrones is mostly about tyrants, and I’m glad it’s aware of that. There are plentiful types of tyranny for the Westerosi to choose from, of course. There’s the conniving elitism of Cersei Lannister, still convinced of her house’s utmost superiority and willing to rule over whatever kingdom she can get, even if she has to blow everyone up in the process. There’s the “liberation” offered by Daenerys, who claims to offer freedom from oppressive rulers but really is presenting a more binary choice: Join her, or die. Finally, to the north, there’s the impassive force of the Night King, who offers only the apocalypse, something more than a few bedraggled citizens of Westeros might welcome at this point.
It would be too easy for this show to pitch Daenerys’s efforts at conquest as a battle between good and evil. That’s never been a narrative pursuit in George R. R. Martin’s books, and it was entirely absent from the fiery ass-kicking her Dothraki/dragon combo delivered to Jaime’s forces last episode. There are people to root for, and people to fear, on both sides, and the viewer’s sympathies lie more with Tyrion, aghast at the visceral carnage. “Eastwatch” picked up right in the aftermath of Daenerys’s assault on the Lannister loot train, as the mother of dragons stuck firmly to her brand and offered the beleaguered troops a supposed “choice”: Bend the knee, or get roasted alive. They all bent the knee, of course, except for the flinty Randyll Tarly and his son, Dickon (or was it Abercrombie?), who stood against her foreign hordes and were quickly barbecued alive.
There was nothing triumphant about the scene. Randyll has never been a particularly sympathetic character, and Tyrion wisely pointed out his betrayal of the Tyrell memory in defecting to Cersei, but there was still a noble ring to his comeback: “There are no easy choices anymore,” he sighed. Too true, but to Daenerys, the choice she offers is the easiest of all—why would anyone pick death over the freedom she offers? Especially as it’s spoken in vaguely populist terms like “I’m not here to murder” and something about stopping “the wheel that has rolled over rich and poor.”
It’s a problem that has plagued Daenerys since her days liberating Slaver’s Bay: the concept that her noble ideals, backed up with displays of strength (i.e., dragonfire and conquest), will be enough to win hearts and minds. Instead, as Tyrion and Varys know, all you end up with are endless displays of strength, which can quickly make you a Mad King (or Queen). As Game of Thrones winds to a close, they (and others) are looking to break the endless chain of tyranny, and by gum, they may just have found the way to do it, and it involves a boat filled with stinky, fermented crab.
Okay, it’s more complicated than that, but I dare you to argue with the notion that Davos was the MVP of this episode, and perhaps the show as a whole, smuggling Tyrion into King’s Landing to advance some secret diplomacy, humanely rescuing Gendry in the process, and doing a whole five-minute stand-up set about how crab is an aphrodisiac in the middle there. Crustacean jokes aside, Davos’s involvement in Daenerys’s new scheme (to present a White Walker, or one of its wights, to Cersei as an example of the looming threat in the north) felt particularly crucial to the bigger thematic stuff I’m wrestling with here, in the show’s endgame.
Davos is a loyal soldier, and his loyalty only ended up costing him his son’s life (as he reminded Tyrion), the men around him, and eventually, his liege lord Stannis Baratheon. His loyalty to Daenerys is different and more complicated, the same kind of loyalty Tyrion, and Varys, and even doe-eyed Jorah have for her: They see the chance for something different in her, even if she often behaves just as badly as the rulers they served in the past. It’s something Jon recognizes, too (and, in turn, something Daenerys recognizes in him), and that’s why this mission to retrieve a White Walker makes a mad sort of sense, as hair-raisingly dangerous as it might be. That Daenerys would consider such a scheme, rather than going around burning more castles and scoring more easy victories, is the glimmer of real hope that everyone recognizes beyond the tyranny.
Cersei has no such glimmer, now planning to publicly proclaim her love for Jaime (and give birth to their fourth child together). The Night King still advances silently, promising only destruction. “Eastwatch” was mostly another set-up episode, getting the pieces in place for Jon’s raid beyond the wall with a colorful cast of bandits (including Tormund, the Hound, Beric, and a hammer-wielding Gendry) next week. It had plenty of little tidbits to dig into, most frustrating of them all being Littlefinger’s continued machinations in Winterfell and Sam’s complete inability to listen to Gilly dropping major plot points about the legitimacy of Jon’s birth. But it was encouraging, even exciting, in how it drew on years of characterization, on seasons of world-building, to create momentum and context for its next major battle. Lenika, are you as stirred to the cause as I am? Or is Daenerys’s willingness to par-boil her enemies too fatal a flaw?
Lenika Cruz: I usually find Dany a more reasonable would-be conquerer than many show-watchers do—her repeated citations of her claim to the throne don’t strike me as unhinged, mainly because the show is careful to balance her fire-and-bloodthirsty side with more coolheaded decisions. But the start of this episode was disturbing and gave me the strongest Mad Queen vibes I’ve felt from Daenerys this season. Post-Dracarys justifications to Jon aside, her executions of Randyll and Dickon Tarly were chilling (not literally, obviously)—less because of the fact that they were killed and more because of the manner in which it happened. Tyrion’s clear desperation, and Dany’s stoic dismissal of his pleas, combined with the sight of Drogon as her very own, castle-sized Queen's Justice roaring at bloodied prisoners of war, all but invalidated her “let's make the world a better place together” pitch. Papa Aerys would have been proud. (It helped that this was the most frightening Drogon has ever been from an effects-standpoint: That screech! Those scales! Those teeth! That lumbering, I’m-gonna-eat-you gait!)
The father-son conflagration accomplished a few other things this episode: It made Jon’s fearless approach of Drogon seem mystically fated, an impression only deepened by Gilly’s hint that Lord Snow might, after all, be the true-born son of a Targaryen. It got Varys to stress-drink and meditate on his complicity in the acts of violence his masters have carried out. And it all but brought House Tarly to an end (as a brother of the Night's Watch, Sam is forbidden from inheriting or passing on anything). “You are the future of your house,” Tyrion told Dickon when he stepped forward to die next to his father. “This war has already wiped one great house from the world. Don’t let it happen again.” Not only was Dickon not moved, but Tyrion was also wrong on his second point. The return of Gendry in “Eastwatch,” after three and a half seasons of “still rowing” jokes, wasn’t a shock, but it’s telling that his reappearance came in an episode even more preoccupied with the subject of lineage and family survival than usual.
In addition to the sly reference to Rhaegar Targaryen's annulment of his marriage to Elia Martell—which, I think, positions Jon before Dany in the line of succession, which we all know matters a great deal in Westeros these days—Game of Thrones brought back the last known heir to House Baratheon. (I had been irked that the show hadn’t changed the stag sigil on King's Landing in the show intro to a Lannister lion at the start of Season 7. I'm still convinced it's just an oversight, but perhaps there's a sneakier reason for keeping the Baratheon sigil in place now that Gendry's back.) Either way, David Benioff and D.B. Weiss are giving us a bunch of last-hope, only children carrying on some noble cause after being dismissed by their family—Samwell Tarly (disowned his dad), Jorah Mormont (same), Gendry (same), Daenerys (exploited by her garbage brother Viserys), Jon Snow (who, by virtue of his bastard-dom, could never be a real Stark; he was also murdered by his Night’s Watch brothers).
Game of Thrones enjoys poking at the arbitrary conventions involved in maintaining the institution of family; it also suggests the strength of blood depends entirely on how seriously the members of a given clan take that bond. The Lannisters take family most seriously of all the houses left on the show. From the earliest hours of Season 1, Jaime and Cersei were dripping with scorn for “anyone who isn't us,” a refrain that endures today. I said a few weeks ago that I was concerned that Cersei would be a deflated, less interesting version of herself with her children gone. Now, it turns out that she is pregnant with another child by her brother, and the Lannister name and self-obsession may live on after all. (Though, I wouldn’t put it past Cersei to lie about something like this to Jaime, setting up her chat with Qyburn for maximum believability.) Meanwhile, Daenerys made it a point yet again of calling her dragons her “children” in this episode, a reminder that even she sees herself as part of an indivisible, unquestionable unit.
Look up north for a contrast. We noted last week how peculiar and cold the Stark family reunion was. I’m not saying the Starks don’t care about each other, but the individual identities of the members of their family have been destabilized to the point where mere relation doesn’t seem to be enough to ensure feelings of loyalty. Bran and Arya and Sansa have all become different people: the Three-Eyed Raven, No One, and Lady Stark (f.k.a Lady Bolton, f.k.a. wife of Tyrion Lannister). We saw this week the rapid erosion of whatever trust may have existed between Sansa and Arya after so many years apart. Sansa craves power, something she can only really possess with Jon out of the way. Arya, still devoted to Jon, suspects Sansa’s good intentions aren’t enough to keep her from wanting to rule Winterfell, a belief likely fueled by Arya’s latent resentment for her older sister. And ready to exploit this all is Littlefinger, who proved that for all of Arya’s expert shadow-lurking, he's still the lurkiest shadow-lurker around. (In case you didn't get to pause that shot of the scroll Arya found, it looks like the letter Sansa wrote to Robb asking him to swear fealty to Joffrey.)
In all, this was a solid hour—it was plenty entertaining (as you noted, David, in large part thanks to the ever-fantastic Onion Knight) and the plot sped forward yet again, despite the absence of a couple of storylines (the Greyjoys, the Unsullied). We got some impressive Drogon shots. We got good ole Gendry back. Jorah finally got his hug from Daenerys. Tyrion and Jaime had a reunion. But my credulity continues to be strained in ways I’m trying not to overthink. Like: Is Drogon hurt at all? How did Jaime and Bronn get away from the loot train attack so easily? How did Jaime and Tyrion meet so easily in King’s Landing, with Tyrion not even bothering to toss so much as a scarf on his head for a disguise? Why doesn’t the plan to drag a lone wight before Cersei come under a little more scrutiny? Why does it immediately seem like a good enough idea for an entire band of fighters to volunteer to wander straight into the path of the Army of the Dead in hopes of snagging one ice zombie? How does one even transport an ice zombie?
I’m still very, very excited for the Big Battle That Was Promised next week. It will likely be spectacular, and pivotal, and the most big-picture-y fight yet, since the fate of the entire continent, not just one army or house, depends on it. For all this episode's fixation on protecting and ending bloodlines, and on family name-checking (even Gendry and Jon trust each other almost instantly because of who their fathers were), more important was how “Eastwatch” coaxed the characters to think less tribally, for once. Even Cersei seemed willing to consider a collaboration with Dany, however manipulative her motives. Jon crucially allowed Beric Dondarrion, Thoros of Myr, and the Hound out from their cells, declaring that the only side they should care about belonging to is that of the “breathing.”
That the entire breathing population of Westeros could ever truly come to see themselves as a single family of sorts is still a remote possibility to me. But I’m intrigued that Game of Thrones is sincerely trying to explore that route in the first place. Megan, do you think Daenerys was wise to sanction this seemingly doomed mission north of the Wall? Personally, I’m comforted knowing that the crew involves two guys who were raised from the dead, plus a guy with resurrection abilities. But given the very sweet hi-and-bye that Jorah received this episode, I wouldn’t be shocked if the knight followed in his father’s footsteps next week…
Megan Garber: Sigh, I agree about Jorah. But ironically, if he meets his end in the next episode—a death not by stone but by ice—it would be one of the least existentially tragic deaths the show has portrayed so far. In “Eastwatch,” Jorah got what he’s been wanting for so long: reconciliation with Dany. That element of his story, which is in a lot of ways the element of his story, was given a happy ending. Which is a rare thing in Game of Thrones’s world: So few of the people in this place end their stories having gotten what they want. So few die fulfilled. That’s one of the things that makes watching this show—in addition to the, uh, torture and gore and general bleakness of life in Westeros and beyond—so reliably depressing: There is a pervasive sadness to the proceedings here. On top of everything else, this is a land of dead dreams.
But! (Slightly) more optimistically! As to your Dany question, Lenika, I’m on board (heh) with the mission. And not just because of the people who are engaging in it, but also simply because it is happening in the first place. One of the things Game of Thrones has been so heavy-handedly hinting at this season—beyond the idea that Jaime might betray Cersei and that Jon Snow’s true parentage would be revealed and in due course Change Everything™—is that, in a show about dragon-fire and ice zombies and all the rest, the most destructive thing of all, in the end, might be classic human obstinance. Would humans being human be the death of humanity? Would people’s stubbornness and selfishness and willful ignorance prevent them, in the end, from resisting the encroachments of the Night King?
One of the things I’ve appreciated about the show, pervasive existential sadness notwithstanding, is how methodically—but also how artfully—it has infused those questions into its storyline. From the start, it has been interested in the tangle of information that is true and information that is manipulated—in belief that is justified and belief that is not. And Jon Snow, in particular, has been a nexus of a lot of that—especially when it comes to the White Walkers. The show has been building up to the idea that maybe people simply won’t believe Jon and the others who talk about the threat (because believing them, to be fair to those people, first requires believing in dormant ice-zombies who are under the leadership of a sentient and strategic ice-king and also coming to Kill Them All). Maybe people will be too constrained by their own complacency to accept the idea of impending apocalypse. Or maybe: They will simply take too long to realize the danger they’re in.
People have compared the White Walker plot in Games of Thrones’s world to climate change in our own, and I think, in general, that’s a really fair comparison to make: The White Walkers, too, are a slow-moving menace. Battling them requires first that people expand their views of the world to accommodate a new and weird reality. In Game of Thrones’s universe, the epic and climactic battle between the forces of winter and the forces of life could end up being, the show has hinted, less a classic war and more an easy conquest. The White Walkers could win by default. They could win simply because they have at their disposal that most powerful of things: weaponized human ignorance.
If you buy that reading of the situation, you could also read a lot of Season 7 so far as an exploration of the small, human impediments to solving an existential crisis: This has been a season that has been, in addition to everything else, a really detailed portrayal of the dynamics between belief and disbelief. Jon Snow has been doing everything he can think of to convince people that 1) winter is coming, like rightnowaswespeak, and 2) winter in this case involves an army of nearly indestructible ice-corpses—some of whom may well include zombie versions of people’s own relatives—coming to kill everyone and everything they know. Jon Snow has been Al Gore, basically: heard by some, mocked by others. There are lots of White Walker deniers in Westeros.
I didn’t like “Eastwatch” as much as you guys did—I found it a little clunky, from the beginning (the winky aftermath of Jaime’s-deus-ex-machina, Jon’s emo dragon-petting) on down—but I did appreciate how the episode explored belief itself as a weapon in the war against the Night King and his forces. Archmaester Marwyn, debating Sam about whether the Citadel should believe Jon’s stories. The plan to kill a wight and bring it back to the south as physical—undeniable—evidence of the Night King’s capabilities: a Westerosi version of Al Gore’s slide decks. So I’m all about that mission, and in general all about that little-rowboat-that-could and its ragtag occupants. After all—to paraphrase another epic that explores the consequences of belief and its discontents—they could be humanity’s only hope.


When Atypical was announced last October, the Netflix show’s mission was defined as a question: What does it mean to be normal? Sam (Keir Gilchrist), Atypical’s primary character, is a high-school senior who also has autism, and most of the storylines in the first eight episodes (released on Friday) revolve around “normal” teenage experiences—his efforts to get a girlfriend, his interactions with the jerky popular kids, and his desire underneath it all to fit in, and to feel less alone. And yet the show’s most consistent source of humor comes from how abnormal Sam is. How he inadvertently screams obscenities at bewildered strangers, and blurts out pickup lines he’s downloaded from the internet, and accidentally punches a girl mid-hookup because he can’t stand the way she’s touching him.
Atypical, created by Robia Rashid (The Goldbergs, How I Met Your Mother) and Seth Gordon (also The Goldbergs, as well as the recent Baywatch movie), carries a heavy burden, just because there are so few depictions of people on the spectrum in television, let alone half-hour comedies that place autism front and center. The show is obviously filled with compassion for Sam and tries hard to give the audience some sense of what his everyday experiences are like—demonstrating how clothes with too many zippers and textures overwhelm his senses by distorting sounds and visuals for viewers. But it also relies on him as a punchline, only to turn around and assail other characters who do the exact same thing.
Friends From College Is a Tragedy of Arrested Development
Which is a shame, because in its finest moments Atypical is warmhearted, sincere, funny, and shrewd. It’s hard to tell whether its inconsistency is due to a blurry conception of what tone it should strike, or whether producers simply wanted to appeal to as broad a swathe of potential viewers as possible—the show skews so wildly from slapstick to gritty drama to teen soap to family sitcom that it should come with Dramamine. There’s Sam, played sensitively by Gilchrist (United States of Tara), with his obsession with penguins and all things Antarctic, and his teenage hormones. His sister, Casey (the fantastic Brigette Lundy-Paine), is both irreverent and extremely protective when it comes to her brother. “My sister doesn’t let anyone beat me up,” Sam explains in the first episode. “Except herself.”
The most bewildering aspect of the show is Sam’s mom, Elsa (Jennifer Jason Leigh), whose storyline seems to belong to a completely different drama. Leigh is an immensely talented actress but she seems totally miscast and underserved by the fact that Elsa is very thinly drawn (it doesn’t emerge until more than halfway through the series that she has a job as a hairdresser). Perhaps this is deliberate—to emphasize how often caregivers end up primarily defined by that role—but it doesn’t explain a baffling plotline that threads through all eight episodes and feels better suited to a kitchen-sink tragedy than the whimsical-but-earnest show Atypical strives to be. Similarly out of place is Zahid (Nik Dodani), Sam’s best friend, a dweeby and foul-mouthed lothario right out of a Judd Apatow comedy. And Sam’s therapist, Julia (Amy Okuda) starts the show as an audience surrogate for him to talk directly to, but around the seventh episode weirdly becomes a primary character.
As Sam’s dad, Doug, Michael Rapaport is sweetly and believably awkward—sidelined by his wife’s dedication to Sam but newly able to bond with his son over girl talk and trips to the aquarium. It’s at moments like these that the show finds its footing, communicating both how difficult and how special it is to be Sam, and to be in his family. Casey, a talented athlete, is consistently sidelined by her parents because Sam’s needs are more of a priority. And yet her relationship with him is charming—she accepts who he is, she doesn’t treat him with kid gloves, but she takes fierce care not to let anyone else manipulate or stereotype him.
It’s a dynamic the show could have benefited by emulating. A handful of writers with first- or second-hand experience of autism have noted that the show veers between pandering to Sam and treating him as comic relief. Rashid told The Hollywood Reporter she was inspired to write Atypical by her own personal experiences with a person on the spectrum, and that she hired a consultant and relied on feedback from others familiar with the disorder. And many of its scenes offer thoughtful insight into how Sam functions, portraying how his family “cases” restaurants before they visit them to make sure they’re Sam-friendly and replicating how uncomfortable his experiences can be. But its tonal issues often mean Sam has to be the funny one, whether intentionally or not.
Ultimately, Atypical wants people to be more sensitive to what people like Sam go through, and in that sense it succeeds. Gilchrist, who isn’t on the spectrum, is persuasive and thoughtful enough to avoid making Sam feel like a stereotype, even in more mawkish or predictable moments. And the show has some funny lines—Doug, visiting a fancy prep school, marvels how cashews “are a rich man’s nut.” But it’s hard not to long for a treatment of autism that’s as well-rounded and gutsy as ABC’s Speechless, whose creator, Scott Silveri, based it on his own experience with his brother’s disability and has spoken about the difficulty in finding the line between comedy and accuracy. Atypical’s first season proves how being entertaining and groundbreaking is a really tough balance to strike.


Underestimate Donald Glover at Your Own Peril
Lacey Rose | The Hollywood Reporter
“What distinguishes the 33-year-old—arguably the most prolific creator of his generation, racking up accolades as a writer, producer, director, rapper, stand-up and, now, movie star—is not only his unique voice and versatility, but also his desire, through his work, to get under people's skin and make them think, even if they aren't always comfortable doing so.”
The Toxic Drama on YA Twitter
Kat Rosenfield | Vulture
“Led by a group of influential authors who pull no punches when it comes to calling out their colleagues’ work, and amplified by tens of thousands of teen and young-adult followers for whom online activism is second nature, the campaigns to keep offensive books off shelves are a regular feature in a community that’s as passionate about social justice as it is about reading.”
‘I’ve Not Retired!’ Earl Cameron, Britain’s First Black Film Star, on Bond, Racism—and Turning 100
Xan Brooks | The Guardian
“If Cameron never quite achieved leading-man status, that was hardly his fault—there were other factors at play. One might describe him as the best black British actor of his generation, which is another way of saying that he stood alone at the top, waiting for others to climb up and join him.”
Sam Shepard and Confederate: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
Stargazing
Darrin McMahon | Literary Review
“In delineating these distinctions in the minds of contemporaries and developing celebrity as a category of analysis, [Antoine] Lilti shows how celebrity was fundamentally democratic, in that anyone could attain it, and also keenly adapted to modern individualism, in that it encouraged empathy with individual people, not social types. Yet all along, he emphasizes its fundamentally double-edged nature—for celebrities and their publics alike.”
The Story of the Duck Tales Theme, History’s Catchiest Single Minute of Music
Darryn King | Vanity Fair
“Psychological studies tell us that the more often we hear a song, the more likely we are to enjoy it. Nostalgia plays a part too. For many, the DuckTales theme is inextricably tied up with happy, potent memories of childhood, of after-school television-watching and put-off homework. But the DuckTales theme also happens to be a superb piece of music. It’s not only a high point of an underrated musical form, but an exquisite miniature pop classic in its own right.”
Queen of the Wood Nymphs
Amy LaRocca | The Cut
“Rodarte’s fashion shows have been unusual in form ... and the Mulleavys’ filmmaking style is purposefully disorienting. They use mirror reflections and other, subtle displacements to keep its lush, extreme beauty from becoming some sort of bucolic, soothing travelogue. It was going to take a specific kind of actress to thrive in that setting, and Theresa was always only ever going to be played by Kirsten Dunst, who knows a thing or two about disorientation.”
Did 1997 Contain the Worst Two Weeks in Music History?
Sean O’Neal and Clayton Purdom | The A.V. Club
“They contain so many signifiers of the myriad terrible directions music was taking at the time, alongside omens of the worst still yet to come. Even if OK Computer or Life After Death had arrived during those two weeks, I’m not sure it could overcome the portentous weight of all these oracles of a world about to be dominated by some of the stupidest music ever made.”
What Would Diplo Do? and the Millennial Aesthetic of Viceland
Amanda Petrusich | The New Yorker
“If one were to engage in the treacherous and perhaps worthless work of trying to discern the millennial condition … from Viceland’s lineup, one might observe a fascination with fringe communities, or a belief that journalism should be dangerous if not borderline illicit, or a particular kind of humor that involves the unapologetic intermingling of high and low culture. It also suggests an intolerance for self-importance, particularly when practiced by people in positions of influence or advantage.”


Don’t Miss
The Urgent Message of M.I.A.’s Kala at 10—Spencer Kornhaber reminisces on how the sound and message of the rapper’s brilliant second album attacked the concept of borders between peoples.
The Business of Creativity
Writing in Someone Else’s World—Jason Heller tells the story of how he stumbled on a high-pay, low-prestige way to enter the publishing world.
The Art—and Business—of Making Music Videos—Catherine Green interviews Dave Meyers, who has directed some of the most iconic videos of the Y2K era.
Film
Icarus: A Doping House of Cards Tumbles Down—Sophie Gilbert watches a new Netflix documentary, in which a filmmaker accidentally captures how one of the biggest scandals in sporting history came to light.
The Grimy, Chaotic Thrills of Good Time—David Sims enjoys Robert Pattinson’s electrifying performance in the Safdie brothers’ tale of a dark journey into New York’s criminal underbelly.
When the Planet Is Reality Television—Megan Garber posits that An Inconvenient Sequel is technically a documentary, but only technically.
The Moody, Mixed Messages of Wind River—Christopher Orr reviews Taylor Sheridan’s uneven, but potent, vengeance film rooted in the death of a young Native American woman.
TV
Game of Thrones: Queen of the Ashes—Lenika Cruz, Megan Garber, and Spencer Kornhaber discuss “The Spoils of War,” the fourth episode of the show’s seventh season.
Game of Thrones: Dragons Are the Nuclear Option—Sophie Gilbert notes the creatures are the most powerful weapon in Westeros, but that this week’s episode showed the horrific cost of using them.
The Joke Has Died With Wet Hot American Summer: Ten Years Later: David Sims thinks the latest Netflix spin-off of the 2001 cult-comedy classic brings back the old gang but has nothing new to do with them.
Settling vs. Settling Down: 2 Ways of Looking at the Bachelorette Finale—Megan Garber writes about how some fans saw Rachel Lindsay’s final choice as a compromise of her desires, but it can also be viewed as getting her exactly what she wanted.
Music
The Very Human Return of Kesha—Spencer Kornhaber listens to Rainbow, an album that blends fantasy fun and bummer reality following the pop star’s public legal and personal struggle.
Sports
The Dodgers Aim for History—and a Championship—Robert O’Connell says having the best regular season in baseball rarely leads to a World Series win, but the Los Angeles team is hoping to defy the odds.
No Country for Colin Kaepernick—Vann R. Newkirk II believes it’s possible that the activist-athlete will never take another snap in the NFL.
Books
Storytellers Grapple With the Porn Identity—Sophie Gilbert analyzes new works from Jon Ronson and Tom Perrotta that examine the cultural impact of a digital sexual revolution.


A year ago, Colin Kaepernick—as an injured San Francisco 49ers backup quarterback during an exhibition game—began his practice of sitting during the pregame rendition of the national anthem. “I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color,” he said of his protest. Through the season, even as he regained the starting gig for 11 games, Kaepernick continued his demonstration.
Of course, his protest wasn’t exactly well-received. Kaepernick faced near-universal revulsion from NFL team offices, and fared little better among the sports commentariat. President Obama and Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg have opined about his protest. President Trump—echoing a large percentage of Americans—has boasted about his role in keeping Kaepernick out of a job. After the quarterback chose to enter free agency in March, the same front offices that criticized him refused to offer him roster spots, even over marginal talents.
Less than a month away from the start of the regular season, Kaepernick is still out in the cold. Last weekend, the Miami Dolphins chose to sign the quarterback Jay Cutler over Kaepernick—and Cutler is coming out of retirement and is reportedly very much out of shape. Though the Baltimore Ravens’s coach and general manager both reported interest in Kaepernick and endorsed his skills, the business side of the operation has refused to offer him a contract, even as the team signed David Olson, a guy who last played for something called the Champions Indoor Football league. But despite the increasing likelihood that he will lose his spot in the NFL, Kaepernick has persisted in his activism. It seems, even, that this is the outcome for which he was prepared all along.
Did Colin Kaepernick's Protest Fail?
Just a month before Kaepernick’s protest began, Alton Sterling, a 37-year-old black man, was shot and killed by police in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, while selling CDs outside of a convenience store. Just a day after that, Philando Castile was shot and killed by Saint Anthony, Minnesota, police officer Jeronimo Yanez during a traffic stop, and protests in both Louisiana and the Twin Cities punctuated the prelude to football season. A month after Kaepernick began his protest, Terence Crutcher was shot and killed by Officer Betty Shelby in Tulsa, Oklahoma; and Keith Lamont Scott was shot and killed by officers in Charlotte, North Carolina, who admitted that video showed no “absolute definitive, visual evidence” that he’d provoked them.
Kaepernick saw his own protest as an extension of the Black Lives Matter movement and of the raucous protests that erupted in each of those cities. “It will be very telling about what happens to the officer that killed him,” he told reporters about Crutcher last September. “They shot and killed a man and walked around like it wasn’t a human being.” Yet Kaepernick’s protest was muted compared to those outcries. He chose to sit—an action that he soon modified into a kneel in order to avoid disrespecting veterans—and never made public mention of his protest unless asked about it.
After years of media and political backlash against the tactics of Black Lives Matter, from efforts to criminalize marches to proposed legislation that might allow drivers to kill protesters with impunity to wild claims that the movement’s strategies actually kill people, Kaepernick simply chose not to stand. The protest spread to others in the NFL, and to other sports, perhaps because of its resemblance to another famous sports demonstration. Although the “Kaepernick kneel” was much more understated and less directly connected to an ideology than the choice by sprinters Tommie Smith and John Carlos to raise their black-gloved fists to the sky during the 1968 Olympics, it carried the same kind of defiance.
As he’s sought a new job this offseason, his detractors have proffered a shifting set of explanations for his inability to land a roster spot. But in a league where much more marginal talents or much more damaging reputations than his are flourishing, with due consideration to the capricious and often arbitrary nature of employment in the National Football League, it seems clear enough that Kaepernick’s defiance is really the thing.
Maybe an informal ban from the NFL was the ultimate end for his protest. What the last year of his activism has illustrated more than anything is that the NFL will not—and perhaps cannot—tolerate politics that challenge the status quo or run the risk of upsetting white fans. If he doesn’t receive a training camp invite this month, Kaepernick’s biggest impact could be in holding a mirror to the NFL, and through his own treatment highlighting exactly where the league fails.
Exile would also amplify the athlete’s message about the country. The NFL has risen to prominence in the last half-century as America’s true pastime at least in part because of how well it embodies the American ethos. Football Sunday is a kind of Sabbath for the country, and the NFL is the mother church of a new American civic religion. Through football, a one-hour spectacle of peak human performance and perfect pageantry is transubstantiated in real time into the country’s sustaining mythology. Americans see in football what they see in themselves. Kids from the bleakest conditions see heroes on the field from the same places. Adults soldier on through crushing workloads and illness with the template of godlike athletes playing through injury in their minds. Americans build lifelong and familial bonds through the sport—Packers, Patriots, and Panthers are bred and born everyday.
But the NFL is also a reflection of the worst parts of America, and its neuroses and pathologies. Violence between the lines is often accompanied by the dishonor of violence against women and other brutal off-the-field incidents, which often go unpunished by the league. The necessity of superhuman effort and workaholism breaks down human bodies and minds and has led to the NFL’s own mini-opioid epidemic. Science is regularly ignored when it runs up against profit, even when its portents are dire. And the very patriotism that now fuels the NFL—much of which is performed during the same anthem Kaepernick protests—has been attacked as a cynical exercise in paid propaganda.
Through history, activists have learned that the best way to fight the forces advancing militarism, bigotry, and poverty in the country has been to turn its worst impulses against it. Such was the crux of civil disobedience as practiced by Martin Luther King Jr. and the nonviolent segments of the civil-rights movement that he helped lead. That movement found that provoking exaggerated responses to rather minimal protests—sit-ins, marches, and bus rides—was useful in subverting American claims to virtue and the colorblindness of justice. Activists embraced prison time and other draconian measures from authorities—sometimes paying the ultimate price—as a method of showcasing just how deep injustice ran.
Kaepernick is not King; he is a multimillionaire athlete equipped with nondiscrimination and political-activism protections for which activists of King’s generation fought, and unburdened by some of the real dangers that they faced. But his protest does resemble those of previous athletes-turned-activists who put their livelihoods on the line to make statements. One of the popular arguments early on against Kaepernick was that he was too privileged, and that his protest had no real skin in the game. Or, as Forbes contributor Eric Macramalla put it last August: “There is one key feature that distinguishes Ali from Kaepernick, and that is sacrifice.”
A year later, such criticisms clearly missed the mark. Kaepernick has already sacrificed money, influence, and perhaps his career. And judging by his prioritization of activism across the globe now—with some 49ers staffers indicating “Kaepernick might actually rather do social justice work full-time than play quarterback”—that sacrifice appears to have always been the endgame.
Lost in most of the uproar over Kaepernick’s choice to kneel is the fact that none of the officers involved in the killings of Sterling, Castile, Crutcher, or Scott were convicted of any crime, and most never even saw trial. Despite the Trump administration’s condemnation of black protesters and the spread of the idea of a “Ferguson effect” chilling law enforcement and increasing crime, annual killings by police have barely changed over the past three years, and black and brown people still make up a highly disproportionate number of those slain. The country now faces up to eight years of a president and attorney general who have openly derided criminal-justice reforms and advocated to enact more carceral laws.
But in exposing the hypocrisy of the NFL—and by extension America—protests like Kaepernick’s may have longlasting effects. Already, the NFL faces the prospect of boycotts and a further erosion of its stained public image if Kaepernick isn’t signed. Tides turn quickly, and Kaepernick’s saga could be one of many tiny ripples that force the country away from denialism and toward progress.
It’s therefore possible that those who protested on behalf of people like Sterling, Castile, Crutcher, or Scott will one day be lauded as heroes—even as they are reviled today. Such is the American way of history. By the time King was killed in 1968, public opinion was tilted firmly against him. Tommie Smith and John Carlos were blackballed, and faced a multitude of death threats in their time, even as their protest is remembered now as one of the most remarkable moments in Olympic history. Ali once faced widespread denunciation and a ban from boxing for his political views and anti-patriotism, even as he is now upheld as the model activist-athlete by Americans of all races and ideologies. Kaepernick is carrying on that legacy. This country can be changed through sport, and his protest is just a first step.


I match the profile of perhaps Dave Meyers’s most notorious type of fan.
As the director began making regular appearances on MTV’s Making the Video in the early 2000s, I hit puberty and set about adjusting my tastes to the pop-culture sights and sounds available to me. Meyers is, in part, responsible for many of them.
I can remember sitting on the island countertop in my parents’ kitchen, neck craned back, unblinking eyes trained on the TV screen where Britney Spears sat perched on a glittering star, tonguing her way through “Lucky.” MTV’s cameras flitted between Spears lip-synching on set and crew members hovering just outside the frame. Meyers appeared on camera almost as much as Spears herself, explaining the video concept and orienting the viewer to whichever scene they were shooting.
Making the Video offered a “private” glimpse at the work that went into videos that would then land on TRL’s countdown for weeks on end. The MTV machine was in full swing, fueled by the piercing howl of teenage girls—myself included—and pop-music enthusiasts, with creators like Meyers toiling inside.
The video for “Lucky” premiered in 2000—the first of three years in Meyers’s career where his work was, to me, inescapable on TV. A sampling of his early-aughts prolificity: Outkast’s “B.O.B”; Jennifer Lopez’s “I’m Real”; Enrique Iglesias’s “Be With You” (with a cameo by Shannon Elizabeth); DMX’s “Party Up (Up in Here)”; Kid Rock’s “American Badass” (and the preceding two singles that put the rapper and possible senatorial candidate on the map); Mya’s “Free”; Ja Rule and Ashanti’s “Always On Time”; and No Doubt’s “Hey Baby.” He’s also responsible for handfuls of music videos with Missy Elliott, Jay-Z, Dave Matthews Band, Creed, Pink, Janet Jackson, Celine Dion, Korn—it’s a lot.
Browsing the core years of his music-video domination is an experience similar to skimming BuzzFeed posts targeted to the mid-Millennial set—“Only ’00s Teens Will Remember These Ancient Cellphones”; “45 Songs That Were Definitely on Your 7th-Grade Pump-Up Mix”; “These Co-Workers Recreated Janet’s ‘All for You’ Choreography and I’m SCREAMING.”
Later in the 2000s, Meyers slowed the pace of his music-video production to focus on commercial work—he’s responsible for the iconic iPod silhouette campaign, among others—and tackle a feature-length movie that would become the middling horror flick The Hitcher. In 2015, his music videos began to garner more attention again: The huge response to Missy Elliott’s “WTF (Where They From)” was an especially pleasant surprise.
Earlier this year, Meyers co-directed the video for “Humble” with Kendrick Lamar and Dave Free, a.k.a. the Little Homies. As they and the rest of Lamar’s team watched the video explode online, and largely positive feedback poured in, thoughts turned to its award-show prospects. Despite Meyers’s decades-long career directing some of pop and hip-hop’s biggest stars, his experience with major networks has soured him on what should be a proud moment for a creator. “[With] movies, the director still goes up and gets the award; the producers still get the Best Film award,” Meyers told me. “In videos, that’s not how it works. The people that make the videos, that created the videos, that came up with the ideas for the videos—they barely get a ticket at the award show.”
And in the teenybopper heyday of TRL and Making the Video, when Meyers was at least recognized on the street, if not the stage, creative direction and skill weren’t top priorities for mainstream fans. “‘What did you guys think of the video?’ ‘Oh my god, he’s so hot!’" Meyers jokingly recalled. “That doesn’t tell me anything. How do I get better as a filmmaker if that’s your response?”
In that respect, the last several years have been a boon in audience feedback. YouTube comments and views have proved to be useful gauges for a video’s success. And despite dips in budgets in years past, the art of matching a visual narrative to lyrics has demonstrated some staying power. Over the last 20 years, Meyers has adapted to the consumption habits of his audience, on top of the demands of artists and their handlers, as fandom and the business of entertainment have shifted dramatically. In 2017, he’s already racked up a tally of well-received videos for Elliott, Lamar, SZA, and other buzzy artists.
For nearly two hours on a Monday in July, Meyers and I sat side by side in some (surprisingly comfortable) arena seats overlooking the set of an upcoming video and talked about the frustrations and epiphanies he’s stumbled upon over the course of his career. What follows is an edited and condensed transcript of our conversation.
Catherine Green: So I’ve read the one-liner origin story—about how a chance encounter with the director Gus Van Sant led you to your destiny in music videos. Can you fill in the details for me?
Dave Meyers: Yeah, there’s a bit more to that. (Laughs.) Basically I came out of film school with a pretty solid sense of wanting to do films. I had written five scripts, I was taking meetings, I was fully immersed in the movie side. I had shot a music video in high school to a Slick Rick song, “Children’s Story,” so I sort of had a dormant music-video love that I don’t think I understood. [It was] kind of a perfect storm of meeting Gus and him saying do music videos, me turning on F. Gary Gray’s work, which was TLC’s “Waterfalls” and “Natural Born Killaz” with Ice Cube and Dre—it tapped into my early days when I did the music video for Slick Rick. And I set my sights on directing a spec music video, which then led me to get signed.

I was working as a temp, which is like a temporary assistant. You get a call the morning of, and they’re like, “Hey, be here at Paramount at 9 a.m.” I could type really fast so I ended up becoming a popular temp. This was back in the time long before the current era of digital stuff—we had to use VHS tapes. But they’re expensive to a guy who made less than $10,000 a year. And so I worked at Paramount and they would recycle, so there’d be 80 Star Trek tapes that they didn’t need anymore, and I would grab all that stuff. I had a friend who worked at a dub house—he’d make all the reels for me, and then I would use the mail system at Paramount to send it all out. Then I would use the phones at the studio system, ‘cause back then it wasn't just a universal charge for long distance. It was about 70 phone calls a week, and they were pretty much a whole year long of nos.
I was really good at letter writing. I used to work at a nonprofit organization, Independent Features Project/West [now called Film Independent]—they do the Spirit Awards. The big boss was Dawn Hudson—she now runs the Academy [of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences]. They were fantastic at getting on people’s good side. So I used that letter-writing understanding and the language that I learned to write respectful letters to the community of music. And most of it went on deaf ears, but there was one guy, Coolio’s manager Paul Stewart, who saw the letter, watched my Slick Rick high-school thing, and was like, “Holy shit, we gotta give this guy a video.” I think it was about a year before I heard from him, and then it was another half a year before he gave me a video that nobody ever saw. But nevertheless, the action of giving me the video made some other people I was talking to give me videos, and then the culmination of that eventually got me signed.
Green: Give me a ballpark of what kind of video budget you were working with when you were just starting to build a portfolio and reputation.
Meyers: At the very beginning, most videos averaged $200,000 to $300,000—and I was getting $30,000 videos. It’s funny, ‘cause now there’s tons of $30,000 videos, so young directors have lots of opportunities. When I was coming up, because it was all about fitting in, most studios, even for beginning artists, they would get the $200,000 and they would get a [familiar director]. So it was very hard to find $30,000 videos to even build a reel. Kid Rock I think was my biggest budget, $150,000. And then quickly it got to the $200,000-to-$500,000 range. After I sort of hit the ceiling of attention, I started very quickly getting $500,000 to a million for everything, and I spent about two years at that level.
Green: Early in your career when you were still hustling on a low budget, what other workarounds did you come up with to get what you needed?
Meyers: I’m always getting favors. In the early videos, I was just shopping—knocking on doors, trying to get freebies and favors anywhere I could. It’s kind of my equivalent to hip-hop guys selling stuff out of their trunk. I had young ambition, so the amount of nos that I heard didn’t sway me. Right now, it would sway me. At least now there’s an occasional yes, and big high-profile yeses that go along with all the nos.
There’s logical reasons why I got the “Humble” video, and Kendrick would ultimately have to speak to that. But spiritually sometimes I think about it and I’m like, “Well, I am that guy in music videos.” There’s a lot of other directors that showboat and do what they do, and are fly. And I’m very grounded, always have been grounded. But was I chosen cosmically, because I put out that energy and maybe Kendrick absorbed it? These are the things I think about at night.
Green: So you’ve got a reputation for being grounded while shooting?
Meyers: Well, I just am. Some people have commented—Puffy was the funniest. He was like, “Damn! You really a nice dude!” He said it in shock, like I wasn’t supposed to be. It made me insecure actually. Other artists—I know the repeat visits are probably because I’m low-key. And their machines are so intense. I just sort of always got a smile on like, “We’re here now—let’s have some fun.” It’s not a calculated thing. It’s just who I am.
That’s why I went back to videos [after focusing on commercials]. Because I haven’t gotten to do Star Wars, and I haven’t gotten to do the movies that I’m capable of doing. This is an outlet for me. The commercials were becoming a little challenging, ‘cause there’s so much interference and so many compromises. When I first came up, making music videos was not only a creative outlet; it was also my means of making money. Now that I have a commercial career, this is no longer a means of making money. Just, what’s the dopest video I can put together right now? With the elements I’m being given, what’s the best I can do? And expressing that has been really fulfilling.
Green: What was the impetus for getting into commercials? Were you just handed a really sweet offer, or what?
Meyers: I was exhausted. You have three hours to sleep, and every shoot you show up and it’s like, “Oh my god, things are changing.” And I had won every award—there wasn’t much left in videos for me to feel a sense of accomplishment.
Green: Tell me about some of the more systemic flaws or issues you see creeping up in music videos. It seems like a couple years ago, one of those would’ve been lower budgets.
Meyers: Financially, everything has come down. Budgets in commercials have been coming down because they’re less of a priority; they’re a fraction of what they were even six years ago. So they’re putting money toward other kinds of things—VR, other types of headline stuff that can get the brand some attention.
The business-run mentality of creativity is where the problems begin. The only people that really seem to get it right are Marvel, and I think that that’s exciting—when you see a brand like Marvel understand their brand and protect their brand. They’re not protecting “what’s the safest choice?” They’re protecting “what’s the relevant choice?” What are fans gonna care about? What’s gonna keep this alive in the long run? And they’re doing it in such brilliant way—it’s what musicians do. Marvel is doing what Katy Perry does, or what Kendrick does, but they’re doing it across all their superheroes. It’s rare that that kind of brand intelligence is applied to movies.
Suddenly what audiences have to say and what critics have to say is meaningful again. And I remember hearing this a couple years ago: “Oh, we only make horror films; we only make this ...” That started to change into “We gotta make good films.” That’s the best thing for creativity, that it suddenly matters to be good.
I couldn’t even tell you that what I’m saying is gonna be relevant a year from now; it’s changing so fast. But it does feel like creativity has been democratized. So if you’re a young kid, or you’re an old veteran, you’re basically equals now. And it’s really about who’s got the hotness. And that’s what I’ve been dealing with coming back to videos; that is a kick in the ass a little bit, trying to make sure that the shit’s not been seen before.
Green: In practical terms, what does “co-directing” actually look like on set for you? “Humble,” for instance, was co-directed by you and the Little Homies.
Meyers: Co-directing isn’t really what you think it is. Any time I’ve shared co-direction, it’s always usually an acknowledgement that the artist is there and present in the creativity. So I’m in a sense collaborating with him in the creation of the idea. Nobody usually gets in my way of the directing of it. In Kendrick’s case, he has a behind-the-scenes guy, Dave [Free], who is sitting with me and helping me understand the vernacular, that gets certain things that I need to get. A lot of the extras are part of Kendrick’s camp—we don’t cast them. He just knows the family and the world. They put “Little Homies” on everything that they do, kinda like a brand. Missy did that. They want their crowd to know that they have their imprint on it.
Usually, it’s harmony. We all have the same goal—I wouldn’t want it any other way. In a weird way, usually the co-directions, when credited, they’re usually reflections of a better behind-the-scenes environment for me.
Green: Tell me about the title cards in your videos. It seems like they’ve shown up more frequently in the last few years.
Meyers: It’s just a way to put your name on it. Again, in my particular case, I’m not doing this for money. What I’m doing it for is, “Hey, I’m giving you the best of my creativity and I’d like you to know that it came from me.”
Green: You’ve mentioned in past interviews that it’s increasingly difficult even to get a free ticket to an award show where one of your videos might be in the running. Is that still an issue? Any improvement?
Meyers: Well, since that sentiment, I haven’t gone to an award show. This year might be different. There’s possibilities that I’ll be nominated—who knows?
Green: It’s okay if you don’t want to jinx it.
Meyers: If I’m lucky enough to be a part of a moment where Kendrick’s gonna get acknowledged, I’d like to be there with Kendrick. And if he wants me there or he’s inviting me to be there, it can help. That would be rewarding to me and fulfilling, to watch him have his moment. Whether I’m included in it or not really doesn’t matter to me. But to sort of earn the right to participate in that moment with him is exciting. So that would drive me to an award show. If it’s separated, and I’m over there in the nosebleeds, I might not go. I might just watch it from TV.
I don’t hold a grudge; it’s just the way it is. I’m not alone, they’re not isolating me, it’s just, again, bad politics on the way that filmmaking is respected in videos.
I don’t know. If it was respected, we’d get points on the YouTube clicks. I’m worth 4 or 5 billion hits, and that’s probably several million dollars that I would get in residuals if I was part of that. And that’s how movies work. They’re underpaying directors anyway, so it’s sort of like, “Here, here’s a carrot,” you know? If it’s a fucking huge, massive hit, you get a little bump.
Meyers: No, in the sense that I always have ideas, I always have ambition, and I always seem to have opportunities.
What I go through is sort of a mild version of writer’s block. It’s more about time spent. If I put enough time into one thing I will figure it out.
In videos, sometimes it’s a cold call, meaning that you get the track but you don’t talk with the artists, and it’s a guessing game. I don’t know what the hell they want to do. And if they don’t give you a seed of something, then you’re just taking a crapshoot of what you want. In the opportunities where people communicate, I usually get there. Maybe not the first [idea], maybe not the second one, maybe not the third one. But if there’s a will to want to work, then that’s fine.
Ambition is everything. Talent is not everything. Being able to take high risks and stand out while you’re young is critical—in this culture, it’s everything.
Green: I’m interested in that element of ambition when it comes to your wanting to get into movies. What’s the appeal to you? Is it the opportunity for more storytelling? Is it the length of time to play with? Is it that you wouldn't have to focus a piece of work around a pop star?
Meyers: Oh, no, that I don’t mind. If someone told me, “Hey, you want 50 years of doing music videos at proper budgets?” I’d be like, “Aw yeah, it’s incredible doing this stuff!” It’s more digestible, and that might actually be the saving of music videos. With movies—having someone give you two hours of their time is much harder than three minutes.
With all spiritual and actual thanks to Kendrick, I seem to have the opportunity to branch out. I’ve done two more videos for him. All I want is to give thanks. And beyond the thankfulness of it all, it’s a wonderful relationship. I had that with Missy. So I did 15 years of videos with Missy as a result. I have that with Pink. And to have that with someone as brilliant as Kendrick, it gets me excited.
But that’s in his court. I’ll be available; it’s just—it’s a matter of the road he’s traveling. I’m just one little, tiny footnote in his larger scheme of brilliant poetry and innovation. So he needs to keep his edge, and hopefully I ... That keeps me up at night, too. I gotta stay edgy for him, I gotta give him the best shit I can dream up, and hopefully that’s good enough to stay in his family.
Green: We’ve talked a little bit about what younger filmmakers and directors are up against. What advice would you give them? What would you tell them to prepare themselves for?
Meyers: Times are so much more amenable to them. The birth of influencers is evidence of that—people making $60,000 a month are using their iPhones to shoot little comedy skits. It’s just young people doing what they do. And advertisers want that audience. So I think that the most important thing is to just do it. Find your voice, and then push your voice. And then be humble enough to hear the feedback. If nobody’s checking for what you’re doing, try again. And keep trying.


At the end of Wind River, the major-film directorial debut of Taylor Sheridan, we are informed that no records are kept of how many Native American women go missing each year. It is an odd political note on which to conclude. Because while Wind River revolves around the disappearance and death of a young Native American woman, she is largely missing from the film herself, appearing alive only in one brief flashback.
Instead, the film is concerned principally with the fates of the fathers of such young women, two of whom appear in the film as principal characters. Which raises the questions: Is Wind River a story about the unacknowledged trials of Native American women? A sincere exploration of male grief? Or simply a vengeance movie that leverages the deaths of young women to up its emotional kick? I don’t doubt that Sheridan aspired to some combination of the first two; I fear that what he wound up with was closer to the final one.
Jeremy Renner plays Cory Lambert, a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service agent tasked with patrolling the snowy wildernesses of Wyoming in winter. While out hunting for a predatory mountain lion, he instead comes across the body of a young woman (Kelsey Asbille) frozen in the snow. She had been sexually assaulted before fleeing barefoot into the night, until her lungs literally burst from gulping the subzero air. Her name is Natalie, and she was the daughter of Martin (Gil Birmingham), a close friend of Cory’s.
Cory, too, lost a daughter to the unforgiving elements years earlier. He and his Native American wife (Julia Jones), since divorced, had gone out of town; an impromptu party thrown by their daughter got out of hand; and she, too, died alone in the snow under hazy circumstances. His stake now in discovering what happened to Natalie is personal and palpable, if perhaps a touch overdetermined.
The Disappointments of Detroit
Because the death took place on the Wind River Indian Reservation, jurisdictional questions abound. Ultimately, the investigation falls to a tribal policeman named Ben (the always wry and wonderful Graham Greene); an ill-equipped—literally, she’s just been flown in from Vegas without even a winter coat—FBI agent, Jane Banner (Elizabeth Olsen); and Cory, whose cold-weather hunting and tracking skills prove to be precisely what the case requires.
The mystery itself turns out not to be much of a mystery, and its abrupt solution, offered in flashback, is odd and disappointing. But from the start, it is apparent that writer-director Sheridan is more interested in the mood of his film than in the details of its plot. His two previous screenplays, for Sicario and Hell or High Water—both excellent—were set in the wilds of Texas. Here he opts for the still more desolate snowscapes of Wyoming. (The Coen brothers did something similar when, having set their first two films in the arid flats of the Southwest, they moved their sixth, Fargo, to frosty Minnesota.)
With the aid of the cinematographer Ben Richardson (Beasts of the Southern Wild), Sheridan makes the landscape itself—snowswept, dotted with trees and outcroppings of rock, carved up by the treads of snowmobiles—a character as vivid as the human ones: austere, secretive, and ominous. (As Cory explains at one point: “Luck don’t live out here. Luck lives in the cities.”) It is no accident that, whatever roles human agency played in the deaths of Natalie and Cory’s daughter, the actual killer was in both instances the frigid land itself.
Sheridan’s dialogue is once again sharp and understated, and he shows an aptitude with his cast. All deliver strong performances, in particular Olsen and Birmingham, the latter of whom also had a major role in Hell or High Water. (Sheridan is an actor himself, best known for his role on Sons of Anarchy.)
For all its strengths, Wind River stumbles in its final act, as it struggles to balance its themes of solemn grief, macho retribution, and gender and cultural enlightenment. But it is still a film worth seeing—as, one hopes, will be whatever films lie in Sheridan’s promising future.


This is the age of the cliffhanger. It is the age of the plot twist. It is the age that has taught people to make sense of the world not merely with that time-honored aid—the story—but also with stories that self-consciously mimic the serial workings of television. So the recent Congressional debates over the future of Obamacare resolved not just with a vote, but with “the most dramatic night in the United States Senate in recent history.” The recent increase in the bellicosity of the threats exchanged between the United States and North Korea have been understood not merely as escalation, but as “Game of Thrones rhetoric.” The presidency of Donald Trump, a man who was catapulted to national fame with the help of a reality TV show, is itself often interpreted as such a show, complete with heavy edits (“alternative facts”), victims, villains, and an assortment of cast members who are obsessed with winning and decidedly Not Here to Make Friends.
Serial Thriller
Into that environment—reality, as understood by “reality”—comes An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power, the follow-up to An Inconvenient Truth, Al Gore’s 2006 documentary about climate change. The logic of dramatic serialization is in one way built into the sequel’s title: The 2017 version of Gore’s Oscar-winning film is, the new one promises, simply the next installment in the show—just another entry in the franchise. (Earth 2: Judgment Day? 2 Hot 2 Incurious?) But serialization infuses the movie in other ways, too: This version of Gore’s original PowerPointapalooza now features, true to its 2017 premiere date, distinct heroes, distinct villains, surprising plot twists, and, yes, a final, tantalizing cliffhanger. An Inconvenient Sequel has a narrative arc. It emphasizes action. It is, like its predecessor, technically a documentary; it is a documentary, however, that has internalized the idea that the world makes its best sense—that the world is, indeed, made most relatable and most recognizably human—as a TV show.
Here are some of the similarities between the original Inconvenient Truth and its sequel: Each film is extremely earnest in its message and extremely TED Talk in its aesthetic. Each stars—and, in a much deeper way, revolves around—Al Gore. And each frames Gore as a kind of Cassandra figure, enlightened and insistent and at this point only possibly tragic. (“Future generations may well have occasion to ask themselves, ‘What were our parents thinking? Why didn’t they wake up when they had the chance?’” Gore says, gravely, in An Inconvenient Truth. In An Inconvenient Sequel, the message is similar, but the tone is not: “What were you thinking?” Gore yells, angrily, on behalf of those future generations, at climate deniers and also, one suspects, at human complacency. “Couldn’t you hear what the scientists were saying? Couldn’t you hear what Mother Nature was screaming at you?”)
Perhaps above all, both films are trying to navigate the challenge that any such project—about a slow-moving tragedy, about a systemic and widespread phenomenon—will need to: To make the stakes palpable. To make the problem real for people, not just intellectually but emotionally. To take numbers and charts and graphs and carbon-emissions statistics and present them in such a way that a viewer will feel them, not just in her mind but in her gut. The truths Gore is talking about, after all, are so omnipresent as to be—or at least to threaten to be—invisible. They’re in the air we breathe and the water we drink and in the chill of an over-cooled office. They are lurking in all those delightful memes that came from the footage of Planet Earth II. They have transformed even that most conventionally dull of conversation topics—the weather—into something fraught and political and dangerous. They have also given way to a paradox: These things are so intimate they can, in fact, feel distant.
An Inconvenient Truth met its intrinsic challenge—to humanize climate change—by focusing on the work of one particular human: Al Gore. In the original film, Gore is a Virgil figure, describing the inferno he hopes to prevent. He guides viewers, armed with a slide deck and an earnest conviction in the power of persuasion, through the climate-change data that scientists have been gathering over the decades. Gore, in all this, is certainly a character, in the narrative sense. His tour of an imperiled planet is interwoven with a tour through his own recent history: the car accident that nearly took his young son’s life and made him question his priorities and his purpose; the loss of his sister, to lung cancer; the loss of the presidency, to George W. Bush; the mockery he endured at the hands of his fellow politicians. (“This guy is so far out in the environmental extreme,” George H.W. Bush put it in one speech, “we’ll be up to our necks in owls and out of work for every American.”)
And yet Gore, for the most part, plays the part of the messenger in An Inconvenient Truth. His own stories of loss and (potential) redemption cannily mirror the broader message Gore is attempting to send with the film itself: that humanity, too, can be redeemed. That we have had setbacks, yes, and struggles, yes, but we can move beyond them. We can be better. The tone of An Inconvenient Truth is somber—with all its dire statistics and sober warnings, it is the spiritual precursor of the recent New York article, “The Uninhabitable Earth”—and yet its upshot is decidedly optimistic: Change (for now) is still possible, An Inconvenient Truth insists. Humans, sufficiently enlightened and sufficiently committed, can shift the planet’s fate. They can move the tides, quite literally.
An Inconvenient Truth also adhered to the logic of the documentary, as a form: It had a distinctly participatory element to it. (It, like its sequel, was produced by the social-change-oriented production company named, fittingly enough, Participant Media.) This was a film that was rendered, in spirit and occasionally in practice, in the second person; its audience was part of the story. It was attempting to talk with people rather than at them. “Are you ready to change the way you live?” the film asked, in text rendered against a stark-black screen, at its conclusion. It continued: “The climate crisis can be solved. … You can reduce your carbon emissions. ... If you believe in prayer, pray that people will find the strength to change. … Encourage everyone you know to see this movie. … Learn as much as you can about the climate crisis. … Then put your knowledge into action.”
An Inconvenient Sequel concludes with a similar call to arms. (“Use your voice, … Convince your town/city/school to convert to 100-percent renewable energy. … Because your works depends on it.”) There’s a hashtag now, of course—#beinconvenient—and at the very end a reminder that Gore, in true TED Talk form, has converted his slide show into a 10-minute version that can be easily shared with anyone who doubts the veracity or the severity of global climate change. That all makes for a rather jarring ending, though, because An Inconvenient Sequel is for the most part decidedly third-person in its approaches. This is a story in the most Campbellian and conventional sense. It has distinct heroes (Gore, and Gore’s colleagues) and villains (Donald Trump). Its action builds to a single, climactic event (the United Nations’s conference on climate change, held in Paris in late 2015). It understands itself as a single episode in an ongoing saga. And: It is not so much making a case as it is simply telling a story. It is, in its own way, not here to make friends.
And what that means, as will be the case with any reality TV show, is a filtering of facts to fit the show’s established narrative conceits. We see Gore at the Paris talks, acting the world leader even though, technically, he is not one. (It would be decidedly awkward to have a protagonist who is not, also, the star.) We see the actual U.S. president, Barack Obama, who delivered a rousing speech at the conference, effectively sidelined from the drama. But we get in the president’s place a montage of behind-the-scenes policymaking starring Al Gore: Gore, talking with representatives from India about their economic objections to carbon-emissions regulations. Gore, on the phone with Lawrence Summers, the former U.S. Treasury secretary and chief economist of the World Bank, discussing ways to negotiate with India. Gore, on the phone with the investment banker Colin le Duc, sharing his plan to ask Elon Musk for solar-energy technology (“Elon has a record of giving up IP,” Gore notes, correctly). If Hollywood were in the practice of giving credits to inanimate objects, Al Gore’s iPhone might be listed as An Inconvenient Sequel’s guest star.
This emphasis on Gore as a journeying hero—and, with it, inevitably, this emphasis on the dealings of the powerful—is, in a sense, simply another instance of an Inconvenient film using the former vice president to mirror its broader message: Individual action can do only so much to solve the problem, the sequel, older and wiser and more jaded than the original, admits. The film’s subtitle, Truth to Power, ostensibly refers to resistance against the presidential administration that removed the U.S. from the agreement Gore (along with so many others) fought for in Paris. As the film plays out, though, the line also comes to refer, ironically, to Gore himself: What is Gore, after all, if not powerful? What is Gore doing, in those cheerily lit conference rooms and chauffeured European automobiles, if not exercising a kind of power that is not technically governmental, but that is extremely government-adjacent? Gore name-drops “Elon”; at the screening I attended, that elicited some audible groans.
But this is a film that trusts in its tropes, and one is not to meant to question Gore or his place in the world, physical or otherwise. An Inconvenient Sequel is not presented as a conversation-starter, after all, in the manner of the original; it is presented as a story to take or leave—a reality that has been captured and edited and filtered. Al Gore is the Bachelor, on his journey to happily ever after. He is the baker who has been honing his recipe for decades. He is the survivor.  He is the voice.
And Donald Trump, on the other hand—who appears only briefly, mostly through soundbites Gore listens to, stony-faced, as he stares out of a window into the middle distance—is the villain. He is, in this set-up, the guy who will ally with you and then betray you at Tribal Council. The guy who will steal your pea puree. The guy who is very much not here for the right reasons.
Which are all, to an extent, fair characterizations. Future generations very likely will judge Al Gore to be on the right side of our shared physical history, and Trump to be on the wrong. And climate policy itself, after all, as my colleague Robinson Meyer put it, “is made through diplomacy, international investments, and the aloof professionalism of the global business class”—and those are, collectively, “one of our best methods for actually solving (or, at least, managing) climate change.” You can in that way read An Inconvenient Sequel as a work of climate-focused realpolitik: a man and a mission, the former bending to the demands of the latter.
But you can also read An Inconvenient Sequel as unintentionally cynical. Tempered is the grassroots, activist spirit that accounts for much of the original’s box office success, not to mention its political and cultural impact. Tempered, too, is the sense that the audience here is not just an audience, but a potential collective actor—a potential participant in the story itself. (An Inconvenient Truth closes its many calls to action—reduce your carbon emissions, learn as much as you can about the climate crisis, then put your knowledge into action—with a proverb: “When you pray, move your feet.”) The sequel nods to all that (#beinconvenient); for the most part, though, it is awash in weariness. The fire of the original has been doused with frustration. The film, reflecting that, is more interested in storytelling than in conversation-starting.
That’s the thing about television: It asks extremely little of its viewers. It’s inviting in that way. It’s entertaining in that way. It conceives of life as a spectacle—full of heroes and villains and twists and turns—and is content simply to present its version of life to you, a neatly contained little story in a neatly contained little box, for as long as you’d enjoy the presentation. The TV won’t judge you if, after a long day at work, you come home and watch it for hours on end. The TV is nothing if not patient. The TV has all the time in the world. The question—and the real cliffhanger—is whether its viewers do, as well.


Readers, be warned: Good Time is not the easygoing romp its title suggests. The new movie from Joshua and Benny Safdie, the sibling team of indie filmmakers behind abrasive micro-budget cult hits like Daddy Longlegs and Heaven Knows What, is hardly a fun experience at the theater, but it is an unforgettable one. Propulsive, urgent, and frequently disturbing, Good Time is a techno-scored, 21st-century journey into New York’s criminal underbelly that manages to feel authentic and deeply surreal at the same time.
Who did the Safdie brothers recruit for this uncanny film? Robert Pattinson, of course—the one-time teen idol who now seems to enjoy defacing his movie-star looks in the name of art cinema. He was outstanding this year as the mumbling, bearded aide-de-camp in The Lost City of Z, and he’s even better here as Constantine Nikas, a small-time Queens bank robber trying to break his brother out of jail after a heist gone wrong. Good Time is nasty and sometimes unconscionably brutal, but it’s also the best film the Safdies have made, a (literally) grimy odyssey that’ll make you want to take a shower upon exiting the theater.
Indie Films to Look Forward to in 2017
The Safdies’ last movie, Heaven Knows What, was similarly tough to watch but followed more sympathetic subjects: a group of heroin addicts panhandling and trying to survive in Manhattan. Constantine (Connie to his friends) is concerned with a more immediate mess of his own making, a bank robbery that went south because of his inept, mentally challenged brother Nick (played, with surprising pathos, by Benny Safdie himself). Nick is soon arrested and sent to jail, but a fight gets him transferred to the hospital, from which Connie seeks to rescue him.
If this sounds like a poorly thought-out scheme, well, it is. Good Time is not a movie about a master criminal, and Connie’s plan doesn’t extend much beyond sneaking his brother past the cops and hiding out somewhere. The story is driven more by the powerful, largely unspoken connection between Connie (a live-wire bundle of energy) and Nick (who Connie thinks can’t survive without his help). Connie’s manic efforts to save his brother, which get him into deeper and deeper trouble as he tries to evade the police, are strangely relatable since they’re mostly non-violent. Even the bank robbery that leads off the film is a simple confidence trick, carried out by Connie silently passing threatening notes to a teller.
But then Good Time goes from a bizarre adventure to something more traditionally distressing, particularly after Connie and Ray (Buddy Duress), another prison escapee he’s gotten mixed up with, have a run-in with Dash (Barkhad Abdi), the security guard at an amusement park they try to hide out in. To the Safdies’ credit, they make no effort to varnish the inherent ugliness of Connie’s criminal life, nor the cruelty he’s willing to resort to if need be. But there’s an especially dark edge to the final act of the movie, as whatever initial motivations Connie might have had become less relevant to his desperate struggle to stay alive.
Through it all, Good Time is propelled by a pounding, synthy score from Daniel Lopatin (also known as the electronic musician Oneohtrix Point Never) and the brilliant cinematography of Safdie regular Sean Price Williams, who bathes Connie in various ghastly shades of neon as he stumbles further into the bowels of Queens. The Safdies are aiming for sensory overload, taking a classic genre of New York moviemaking (following “one crazy night,” like Martin Scorsese’s After Hours) and turning it into the ultimate bad trip.
The Safdies’ skill at shaping this upsetting story into something watchable is undeniable, but I’m not sure Good Time would work as well without Pattinson at its center. He’s gone from seeming like a superstar searching for art-film credibility—he was a little lost in David Cronenberg’s Cosmopolis (2012)—to one of Hollywood’s most genuinely exciting actors; Connie is certainly his finest performance to date. When Good Time hits its visceral lows, Pattinson keeps the movie from feeling like an exercise in futility, finding something human within a character who’s quickly losing himself in an atmosphere of total chaos.


To use the language likely heard in music-industry boardrooms circa 2010, around the time of the great female pop-superstar boom, Kesha once benefitted from strong market differentiation. She wasn’t the cryptic alien provocateur Lady Gaga; she wasn’t the coy Betty Boop update Katy Perry; she wasn’t the unflappable fashion assassin Rihanna. She was the glorious, superheroic epitome of a very familiar type—the party girl. In neon face paint and with a dollar sign in her name, she squealed about brushing her teeth with booze and sleeping with the heirs to Mick Jagger. She was fun: the brand.
But this was, in a way, just a different flavor of the same product on offer elsewhere. Kesha’s music was powered by the backbeat of Dr. Luke, a producer who’d helped set the template for 2000 club-pop and who’d been groomed by Max Martin, the most important architect of hits for a few decades now. She also was on-trend thematically: Her hedonism handily doubled as capital-e Empowerment, serving as a rallying cry for misfits and the marginalized. She sassily bit back at male creeps (“Gonna smack him if he getting too drunk”), casually preached self-acceptance (“We R Who We R”), and insisted that girls could have as much a good time as guys without being called sluts. In their way, the likes of Gaga and Perry did something similar—baby, you were born this way; baby, you’re a firework.
The Exquisite Horror in Lana Del Rey's Nostalgia
The novelty of such an act might be expected to wear off eventually, but the public never  got a chance to fully get its fill of Kesha. Instead, about two years after her 2012 sophomore album, Warrior,  she filed a lawsuit against Dr. Luke alleging abuse, sexual assault, artistic tyranny, and general horrible behavior by the producer. The illusion of her invulnerable persona was smashed forever—and its origins given grim new context with the assertion that Dr. Luke had manipulated her starting in 2005, when she was 18. The suit sought to end her contract with him; he denied all allegations; a long legal battle has resulted in no ruling on the merits of the accusations but rather a series of procedural losses for Kesha. She recently announced her intention to move on from this ugly chapter by releasing new music.

Her comeback album, Rainbow, is fascinating in terms of narrative and fine-just-fine in terms of pop. It is being released by Kemosabe Records, the imprint that Dr. Luke founded but no longer runs, and has come out reportedly with his “support” but not involvement. It appears he will get a cut of the profits. Lyrically, Kesha’s show of resilience doesn’t have a ton of specificity about what she’s overcoming—which is perhaps an artistic choice, or perhaps a sign of legally prudent caginess. What’s certain is that the outrageous character and commercial force Kesha once represented is gone, replaced by a human being: poignant, striving, and flawed.
Though Kesha’s situation isn’t fully precedented in pop, the spectacle of resetting after a setback is, and the most common tropes of the licking-one’s-wounds narrative are all here. Like Gaga with last year’s Joanne, Kesha trades thumping electro for analogue instruments and genres that, fairly or not, have an easier time being perceived as “authentic”: rock and roll, country, folk. Also like Gaga, she tries to execute this turn while tamping down, but not altogether ditching, her previous persona. Kesha opens the album with a slowly blossoming acoustic singalong, but she peppers it with “motherfuckers” and “assholes” as she would have with any given song five years ago. She goes full cowpunk on the love-crazed “Hunt You Down,” but harkens back to her old “Cannibal” shtick by saying, cheekily, that she probably won’t murder a guy who cheats on her.

Somewhat stripped down as Kesha is here, you get a clear sense of what made her musically distinct all along. It’s that voice, sharp and nasal and highly conversational, earning cringes from skeptics but a strong sense of kinship from fans. She can also belt with soul, and she cares about articulation—no lyrics sheet required to follow along. With a writing credit on all but two songs (both of which are cowritten by her mom, Pebe Sebert, including a 1980 Dolly Parton cut updated here with Parton’s participation), it’s also as obvious as ever that Kesha is accomplished in the art of pop songcraft. The title ballad in particular, reportedly written while she was in rehab for an eating disorder, captures the sense of “falling right back in love with being alive” with remarkable finesse. Dense with syllables but also graceful, it could be a showstopper in Disney’s follow-up to Frozen or Moana—no small feat.
That track and the single “Praying” both stand out for their reconciliation of the limits of the radio-pop form with walloping trauma and emotion. “Praying” in particular just gets more brutal with each listen, both because of her vocal performance and because of the tricky way it threads the line between condemnation and acceptance. A slightly more uptempo single, “Learn to Let Go,” makes for a competent empowerment anthem in line with current radio trends (islands lilt? check). It also shows some nice self-awareness: “I know I’m always, like, telling everybody you don’t got to be a victim … I think it’s time to practice what I preach.” The track’s currently sitting at the low end of the Hot 100, but just one good TV-drama soundtrack deployment could turn it into a hit.
Elsewhere, she determinedly signals that her old party-animal ways aren’t gone. “Woman,” a straightforward feminist cry with sax touches from the Dap Kings, is laced with snippets of laughter—a winning, if not altogether convincing, touch. “Boogie Feet,” featuring the Eagles of Death Metal, has her screaming like a member of Sleater-Kinney before delivering her vintage so-dumb-it’s-fabulous rapping: “Some people they got the big brains / They make all the computer games.” The engines of the fast songs are purring guitars and live drums, and while the results are catchy and charmingly brash, they’re also a challenge to a pop-radio landscape that has mostly exiled rock.
Even on such highlights, though, there’s a sense of tentative-ness that blunts the material’s impact. For all the profanity she threads in, her account of the healing process doesn’t quite transcend the generic; if only she were able to make like, say, Alanis Morissette, and use her sailor’s mouth for tarter, smarter poetry. “Don’t let the assholes wear you out / Don’t let the mean girls take the crown / Don’t let the scumbags screw you ‘round / Don’t the bastards take you down,” she sings on the opener, “Bastards,” letting common teenage disses do most of the descriptive work.
There is one memorably unique through line, though, and it’s about religion. On songs like “Hymn,” “Finding You,” and “Spaceship,” she seems to be inventing her own faith, insisting on an afterlife of aliens and energy while noticeably avoiding Christian iconography: “Lord knows this planet feels like a hopeless place,” she sings on the closer. “Thank God I’m going back home to outer space.” This cheeky new-age kick is also the direction hinted at in her trippy album art, but Rainbow itself is so caught up reacting to Kesha’s recent real-world narrative that it never fully develops its dreamscape. As she continues to rebuild her career, she might do well to find a way back to wild, uplifting fantasy—which she can, one hopes, now control more fully.


Just a few pages into Tom Perrotta’s Mrs. Fletcher, Eve, a mother in her mid-40s, overhears her teenage son receiving oral sex in his bedroom from his ex-girlfriend. What offends Eve isn’t what’s happening, exactly—she’s already made a point of explaining that she’s not a puritanical mom but a cool mom, who gives her son plenty of space and even offers to pick up condoms at the grocery store. But she’s alarmed, even repulsed, by what she hears: Brendan, her beloved only child, delivering sexual instructions in a parlance that, Eve deduces, is ripped right from hardcore pornography.
Eve recalls attending PTA seminars where a blustering county prosecutor warned parents about “the insane amount of pornography that kids were exposed to every day, a tsunami of filth unprecedented in human history.” In this environment, the man rants, it will take “constant, unwavering vigilance to keep your kids safe.” At the time, Eve and the other parents concluded that he was being hysterical—that all you had to do was teach your kids the right values, and they’d have the tools to become grounded and empathetic adults. But Brendan’s casual, degrading lingo proves how naively wrong this way of thinking was.
Is Porn Culture to Be Feared?
Or does it? Mrs. Fletcher, over the next 300 pages, explores the redefining of American sex lives by technology, but the primary person affected isn’t Brendan. Rather, it’s Eve, whose “accidental” visit to a porn site leads to a nightly obsession. Perrotta explores the ripples that reverberate from her new habit: how Eve starts to view even the most casual everyday activities through a sexualized lens, but also how pornography alters her own conception of herself as a woman. Mrs. Fletcher is a wry, compassionate novel about the ramifications of porn filtering so effortlessly into mainstream culture, without hysteria or accusations. Perrotta, well-versed in capturing the manifold follies and fetishes of human behavior, knows enough by now to gently emphasize that sex is as complicated as people are, and pornography no less so. To simply categorize porn as a malign influence on vulnerable minds is to ignore what it really says about desire.
And yet. Porn is more prevalent than ever before, watched by 82 percent of men and 60 percent of women. It’s also easier than ever to find, and free. In the U.S., it’s replacing sexual education for a generation reared on abstinence-only and limited awkward discussions with their parents. The nature of our anxieties about porn hasn’t shifted—back in the early aughts, Naomi Wolf was documenting how online porn was ruining real sex for young men—but the ease with which we’re able to find it has. But we still have no real idea what the consequences might be of making porn so readily available to anyone with a phone.
It’s this question that the writer Jon Ronson considers in The Butterfly Effect, a sprawling, frustrating new seven-part audio series available for free on Audible, soon to be released in podcast form via iTunes. Ronson starts with a single event, a German businessman who sees the lucrative potential in enabling people to share porn online, and examines the consequences that ensue. Occasionally they’re cultural: He interviews a Christian woman who’s a porn addict and talks to an autistic teenager who’s on the sex offenders registry because he sent sexually explicit images to a friend. But Ronson’s curiosity is more frequently piqued by the people who’ve lost their livelihoods thanks to free porn: the producers in the San Fernando Valley whose earnings are way down and the former actor who lost his job as a nurse after his hardcore scenes became more widely available online. Thanks to one man—the flap of a butterfly’s wings, Ronson argues—millions of lives have been upended.
How porn has affected consumers is unclear: Given how much debate there is over the current glut of porn, there’s surprisingly little research about what it’s doing to us. Some psychologists and activists state that it’s grooming young men to interpret violence as normal sexual behavior, and just last year, Republicans added an amendment to their 2016 policy platform defining porn as a “public health crisis.” But other mental-health experts liken fear of pornography to a moral panic, arguing that all parents need to do is educate kids that porn is fiction: as alien to real sex as the Olympics are to flip cup. Amid the confusion, writers like Ronson and Perrotta are picking up the slack, pondering how an abundance of graphic, hardcore sex to view might be changing the world. Their methods are very different, but their deductions align.
* * *
Ronson starts his story with an anecdote. He was meeting a porn actress in a Los Angeles hotel in 2013, he explains, when he happened to observe the hotel receptionist’s face when the actress walked in. “It was a look of total contempt,” Ronson says, in his northern English drawl, familiar to anyone who’s listened to This American Life. “It made me think that some people are only comfortable with porn people when they’re on their computers, and not in their immediate vicinity.” One of Ronson’s quirks is that he describes porn actresses and actors not as “stars” but as “porn men” and “porn women,” an oddly charming and childlike turn of phrase that evokes images of erotic Lego figures. He also adds a plosive emphasis to the “p” at the beginning of “porn” every time he says it, which is often.
The Butterfly Effect is about what happened “because of Fabian.” In the 1990s, Fabian Thylmann was a teenager in Brussels using CompuServe to trade passwords to porn sites with other teenagers. At the time, Ronson says, the only way to gain access to pornography online was with a credit-card number. But by 2010, when Thylmann bought the company that owned the streaming site PornHub, users had long since figured out how to upload their own adult videos. Thylmann consolidated the free-porn industry, ferociously buying up competitors and paid sites. By 2012, Ronson explains, 80 percent of people watching porn were doing so on one of Thylmann’s sites. In 2013, PornHub had between 65 and 70 million visitors a day.
This has, Ronson explains, been disastrous for the people who actually make porn, and his main aim with the series seem to be understanding the force of the impact on them. It’s a worthwhile, if slightly familiar, goal, given that the story of porn in 2017 is similar to so many stories of businesses made commercially unviable by technology—with a few colorful tweaks. The algorithmic classification of porn, Ronson explains, has defined two kinds of female performers, MILFs and teens, and anyone between the ages of 22 and 29 is now finding it near-impossible to get work, unless they fit into another category (“If you’re 26 with a huge butt you can do big-butt movies,” a producer explains).
But most of all, Ronson seems outraged by the fact that such a thriving industry could be desolated by technology, as if it’s never happened before in any other medium. It almost starts to feel like his real subject isn’t porn at all but the cruelty of an unfettered free market. As Irvine Welsh wrote in Porno, “If you really want to see how capitalism operates, never mind Adam Smith’s pin factory, this is the place to study.” Ronson repeatedly emphasizes Thylmann’s wealth, asking him how many cars he has, and interviewing an artist commissioned to paint a mural in Thylmann’s house, who opines about the fishtanks that require a diver to clean, and how his pool retracts like something out of a Bond film.
The biggest problem with porn, The Butterfly Effect posits, is that it’s free and easy to access. It’s a little simplistic to put this all on Thylmann, since porn-sharing sites have operated since at least the early aughts, and if he hadn’t consolidated free porn there would still be a bonanza of individual sites going it alone. (One errant observation of mine is that lamenting the internet is an odd thing to do in a podcast being released exclusively as a download.) Ronson’s most compelling episodes, by contrast, focus on the why of porn—its appeal not just for the obvious reasons, but for people who are lonely, or repressed, or damaged. He spends two episodes examining the world of custom porn, where enterprising actors and producers have set up a new business making tailored videos for wealthy private clients who specify exactly what they want.
Custom videos often aren’t sexual at all. In one, a woman is doused in ketchup. In another, two actresses set a man’s stamp collection on fire. These are specific fetishes, coming from specific psychological places. At Ronson’s behest, a porn actress interviews the man who commissioned the stamp video, who explains how his obsession with stamps had come to dominate his life and ruin his relationship. His video is an act of liberation. Another custom client requests a video of Wonder Woman being kidnapped by a gremlin, which is baffling to the producers until he explains that his mother left home when he was five. The gremlin is a manifestation of his younger self, trying desperately to stop Wonder Woman from leaving.
* * *
The idea that people are held prisoner by their own desires is also fertile ground for Perrotta: His 2004 book Little Children featured a discontented feminist housewife whose husband leaves her for an online porn star named Slutty Kay, and a pedophile grief-stricken by the loss of his mother. What’s distinctive about Mrs. Fletcher, though, is how passively and unenthusiastically his characters go about their sex lives, almost as if they have no say in the matter. “Tinder was like tequila—fun today, sad tomorrow—but sometimes you didn’t have a choice,” thinks Amanda, who works for Eve at the local senior center. Eve, meanwhile, is “addicted to internet porn,” even though it makes her feel more alone.
For as much as Eve’s new porn habit leads her to do inappropriate things—simply because she’s gotten so used to the idea propagated by internet porn that everyone in the world is having sex all the time, regardless of age, or gender, or body type—it also leads to a potent reawakening. She goes from being defined by her relationships to other people (mother, boss) to feeling seen by them as herself (an anonymous late-night text reads U r my MILF!). In the hands of a clumsier storyteller, it would be less of a revelation. But there’s freedom, and folly, for Eve in identifying as a sexual object at 46. (The book’s title would seem to be a sly reference to another married midlife woman with an inconvenient libido.)
Brendan, though, installed as a freshman in college, is paradoxically having no sex at all. One of the sharpest elements of Mrs. Fletcher is how Perrotta presents two opposing forces colliding on campus: porn culture and PC culture. Brendan falls for Amber, a smart young woman who’s “painfully aware of the mismatch between her politics and her desires”—she’s a thoughtful, sensitive intersectional feminist who’s somehow only attracted to jocks.
Perrotta makes it clear that Brendan has hidden depths, and isn’t as much of a jerk as high school has conditioned him to be. But he also has no idea how to interact with women. His casual familiarity with porn has left him with distorted ideas of how people behave in bed; he and his friends have become so habituated to the idea of a standardized female body that any deviation from the norm revolts them. Then he’s thrust into a college climate that demands aggressive sensitivity from teenage boys. Describing his first week in college, Brendan writes, “The weather was beautiful, which meant that lots of hot girls were wearing cutoffs and bikini tops ... Some of the less hot girls stripped down too, and everybody tried to be cool about it, because body image and all that.”
For Eve, porn expands her consciousness. But it confines Brendan’s. Perrotta approaches the subject of pornography with an open mind, but he’s attuned to its consequences, good and bad. Eve, who came of age in a feminist environment where porn was decried as abusive to women, comes to see it differently. Brendan, whose ex watches YouTube tutorials on blow jobs, begins to understand that sex isn’t just a purely physical act. Quietly, Perrotta points out that porn itself isn’t the problem—it’s the people who watch it.
It’s a surprisingly simple argument, and yet a shocking one, in a culture that’s as polarized over porn as it is over everything else. What if porn is neither good, nor bad, but both? What if it enables some people to feel less isolated even while it conditions others to do things they regret? It’s a conclusion Ronson almost gets at. Midway through The Butterfly Effect, he documents some people who’ve been harmed by porn, and almost all are teenagers. But he ends with a custom video in which a client asks for a video of a woman sitting cross-legged on the floor, telling the camera that he’s not alone, that he’s loved, that it will get easier. Is it porn, or therapy? It’s hard to tell.


On the afternoon of July 31, Major League Baseball’s trade deadline, the Los Angeles Dodgers acquired Yu Darvish, the best pitcher on the market, from the Texas Rangers. Four days later, Darvish debuted in his new team’s gray and blue road uniforms, lasering fastballs and looping curves for seven shutout innings. The Dodgers beat the New York Mets, 6-0, improving the best record in baseball this season to 77 wins against 32 losses. Said the catcher Yasmani Grandal of Darvish after the game, “It’s hard to say you can get any better than he was tonight.”
Grandal’s sentiment was accurate but hardly specific; the same could be said of most of the players on the Dodgers’s roster, most nights, and of the team as a whole. The 2017 Dodgers have been remarkable in every facet of the game, by any metric. They have scored the fifth-most runs in the Majors and allowed the fewest. They hit homers and doubles and play lockstep defense behind a pitching staff stuffed with aces. During one recent 50-game stretch, they won a record-tying 43 times, in every fashion imaginable: piecemeal comebacks, walk-off home runs, wire-to-wire blowouts.
The Rare Vin Scully
Dominant teams usually present a dilemma to fans who enjoy the displays but wish for tight pennant races. But even though they are 15 games clear of the pack in their own division and all but guaranteed a playoff spot already, the Dodgers’s regular season still has plenty of intrigue left, supplied by history instead of opponents. If it maintains its recent pace, the team could break the all-time mark for wins in a season, set at 116 by the 1906 Chicago Cubs and matched almost a century later by the 2001 Seattle Mariners.
Despite those gaudy aims and a quarter-billion-dollar payroll that ranks as the highest in baseball, there is a likable aspect to the roster, an almost quaint adherence to the ideal of the well-rounded team. The Dodgers have their superstars, of course—Darvish joins Clayton Kershaw, the franchise’s icon and the decade’s best pitcher, and the shortstop wunderkind Corey Seager, as names even casual followers of the game will recognize—but their role players and fill-ins have contributed just as much to the trailblazing season. When Adrian Gonzalez, the entrenched All-Star first baseman, left the team in June with a back injury, the rookie Cody Bellinger stepped in and soon found himself near the top of the National League home-run leaderboard. Chris Taylor and Justin Turner, peripheral players prior to joining L.A. in recent years, both rank in the top 10 in NL batting average. Alex Wood, who before this season was known more for his gyroscopic throwing motion than for his results, has performed ably as the team’s top pitcher while Kershaw has sat with a short-term back ailment of his own.
The Dodgers’s manager Dave Roberts—the reigning manager of the year, befitting this superlative team—maintains calm. “It is history in the making,” Roberts acknowledged recently, “But when you get back to the day-to-day, I don’t think anyone is really thinking about that.” His players might not be getting caught up in the hype, but the rest of the sports world is. The Dodgers have accomplished what the NBA’s Golden State Warriors did two seasons ago, when they broke their sport’s regular-season record of 72 wins: turned the sometimes-dull formality of playing out the schedule into an event in and of itself. Every day brings new stories about L.A.’s chances of reaching the historic mark, and the traditionally stodgy baseball media have adopted an industry-wide attitude of outright awe. A recent ESPN.com headline, “Why We Should All Root for an Astros-Dodgers World Series,” summarized the perspective of fans and journalists alike: This Los Angeles team is a movie nobody wants to end.
Monumental regular seasons do not necessarily lead to championships. Neither of the 116-win teams won the World Series, and over the past decade, the team with the best record has claimed the title only four times. All of the statistical sense-making of the 162-game baseball schedule disappears in the short series of the playoffs, where hot streaks have outsized effect and long-term steadiness doesn’t count for much. The Dodgers have their own recent history of failure to contend with, too. They have reached the playoffs in each of the past four years without advancing to the Series; their last championship came almost three decades ago, in 1988.
The Dodgers’s ultimate hope, then, is that this year’s assemblage of talent is good enough to overcome the flukiness inherent to the postseason. They aim to be not only favored but also foolproof, to have enough fallback options and contingency plans to answer any bit of bad luck with some squirreled-away parcel of virtuosity. The comparisons to the Warriors are double-edged; that record-breaking Golden State team ended up losing in the NBA Finals. So while the Dodgers are surely happy to put on a show for the remaining month and a half of the regular season—and baseball fans are thrilled to watch it—the real test will have to wait until October, when their banked wins evaporate and they have to prove themselves all over again.


The story of M.I.A.’s Kala is one of being locked out of somewhere and having a great time anyways. The London rapper Maya Arulpragasam had planned to record the follow-up to her acclaimed 2005 debut Arular in the United States largely with the legendary producer Timbaland, but she said that immigration authorities prevented her entry. It’s hard to verify why that was the case—she’d been to America before, and she’d come again—but M.I.A. has maintained it was her lyrics: “‘Oh no, she said the word ‘P.L.O.’ in a song!’” she summarized to Rolling Stone. So she traveled the globe for collaborators and venues to work in.
The tale fits all too well with the sound and the message of the album, one of the best of the new millennium. The creativity and diversity of sources across Kala, which turns 10 on August 8, not only made for an addictively fun listen that spawned a sui generis smash (“Paper Planes”). It also embraced the much-hyped rise of globalization and digital communitarianism only to execute a clever political flip, tweaking the West not as culturally supreme but rather as tragically provincial. A decade later, her all-out razzing of the concept of borders has never been more relevant.
The Rapper of Refugees
A childhood refugee from Sri Lanka who spent her adolescence in the U.K., M.I.A. first drew buzz with the rave-influenced, DIY austerity of Arular. “You’ve never heard anything like M.I.A.—the sound of jump-rope rhymes in a war zone,” wrote Rob Sheffield in his Rolling Stone review of that album. For a lot of Americans, discussing M.I.A. without echoing tropes of exoticism can be tricky, and it’s hard to miss that the “you” of that sentence is decidedly specific: the listener of the West, not steeped in the gaana and Bollywood and dancehall and other styles M.I.A had grown up with or immersed herself in. But it’s crucial to note that M.I.A., too, tends to use the second-person pronoun to address the West. In her songs there’s “we”—huge swaths of the world that are often reduced to an asterisk in the American consciousness—and there’s “you.” Focusing on the “we” serves an obvious political purpose, but also an aesthetic one, allowing for musical freshness and lyrical subversion. As she says on “20 Dollar,” “Talking about you’s such a bore, I’d rather talk about moi.”

You could hear this confrontational, cliché-conscious mindset most gloriously on the opener to Kala, “Bamboo Banga.” Over an ominous thrum of cut-up static, vehicle zooming, and hammering drums, M.I.A. coolly defined her constituency and her genre: “Somalia, Angola, Ghana, Ghana, Ghana, India, Sri Lanka, Burma, bamboo banga / This the bamboo banga.” What was so ingenious about the track was the subtle way it blossomed from deadpan manifesto to party: Her go-to producer Switch added in just a smidge of bass syncopation and the mix frothed over with sing-song samples from the Indian film composer Ilaiyaraaja. “I’m knockin’ on the doors of your hummer,” M.I.A. said, and the listener had to decide whether to open up.
Because from there, the album only got headier and more surprising as M.I.A. drew connections between cultures and identities with her own individual sense of play. The second and third tracks, “Bird Flu” and “Boyz,” were particularly brazen experiments built on thunderous, multi-sourced drum patterns and high, taunting chants: “na, na, na.” Such chants are (among other things) the verbal weapons of children, perhaps more specifically girls, and the big target of both songs were men—both rich music-industry types and slum dwellers turning in desperation to violence: “How many no-money boys are rowdy? How many start a war?” M.I.A.’s gaze was wide, and she was making an argument about how similar power dynamics exist in vastly different places and situations.
As she was making Kala, M.I.A. was so in her own headspace that she reportedly believed the frenetic “Bird Flu” and “Boyz” could be the big hits of the album rather than the bubblegummier “Paper Planes.” What those songs really turned out to be were the purest displays of her polyglot approach. “Every record I make is about equal appreciation of all cultures, unified and layered so they co-exist,” she told Fader in 2016. She added that this was why on “Boyz” she took “a 2,000 year old drum beat, which is called ‘dupping’ … to Jamaica,” and then to other countries, for musical cross-pollination. The point was peace, as she’d reiterate with the motto for her recent album A.I.M.: “Uniting People Since 2003.”
But unity, the rapper has always insisted, does not mean homogeneity, as seen in the diverse set of songwriting approaches across the album. “Jimmy” recreated a Bollywood standby with slicker production and new lyrics about a love affair with a white journalist on a “genocide tour.” “Mango Pickle Down River” remixed a novelty rap song by aboriginal children, retaining the adorability of the original but adding in a quick line about the meth problem in rural Australia—which is as, Americans know, not limited to rural Australia. The U.S. and U.K.’s enormous cultural influences were stitched in as well, with clever interpolations of indie-rock touchstones (The Clash, the Pixies, New Order, The Modern Lovers) and references to rappers like T.I. Never were the underlying politics expressed with pedantry or sentimentality—almost everything was danceable.

Could the album be made today? In 2007, “cultural appropriation” was not nearly as ubiquitous a term as it is now, and M.I.A. would soon after be at the forefront of debates of what constitutes exploitation in artistic culture-hopping: A New York Times profile would paint her as privileged tourist; a music video would be nixed by her label for parachuting into Côte d’Ivoire. Kala, though, shows she was always savvy about this subject: She gave credit where it was due, offered guests a chance to speak about their own lives, and engineered musical alliances out of an activist spirit. On “Hussel,” for example, she featured the rapper Afrikan Boy talking about the stresses of living as an undocumented immigrant: “Police, I try to avoid them / They catch me hustling they say, ‘Deport them!’”
That was by no means the only place Kala reworked rap tropes of striving and struggle for a global context. There’s something cosmically perfect about the fact that it was “Paper Planes,” of all songs, that broke out, bringing M.I.A. a top-10 hit in the U.S. and a remarkable performance on the Grammys stage while she was nine months pregnant. The verses were about hustling to forge immigration paperwork—relevant, given Kala’s creation story. Moreover, it was a cheeky tour through stereotypes about immigration and poor people. The children’s choir singing that all they want to do is bang, bang, bang and take your money was so innocent-sounding, and the persona M.I.A. inhabited was so clearly a riff on gangsta rap, that it’s hard to imagine anyone missing the joke. But the gunshots got censored, some listeners were offended, and, in the way of great disruptive earworms, it entered longterm radio rotation.
On its 10th birthday, Kala feels newly relevant amid global political currents trending toward isolationism—and due to enduring refugee crises in many of the places that M.I.A. continues to represent in her music. The total entertainment value of the album attests to the vibrancy and humanity of what M.I.A. termed, in one standout track, the “World Town” that travel bans and border walls seek to shut out. As importantly, Kala’s loud celebration of people that have been categorized as “other” spoke up for values that the West likes to think aren’t actually foreign to it. In the acknowledgements to Kala, M.I.A. wrote, “I’d especially like to thank who ever said ‘I’m a citizen of the world and my religion is to do good.’” The person she was paraphrasing was Thomas Paine.


This post reveals plot points for the finale of The Bachelorette Season 13.
Women are often told to settle. For just a little less money. A little less respect. A little less space in the world. The tellings aren’t generally meant unkindly—they’re meant more as realistic reflections of the world and what it is—but they tend to accumulate over time, injecting themselves into women’s understandings of themselves and the places they occupy in their careers, in their finances, and perhaps especially in their romantic relationships. American pop culture sells soaring ideas about romance and soulmates and Happilys Ever After. It whispers, all the while: “Settle, though. Just a little.”
Did Rachel Lindsay settle? When she chose her fiancé during the finale of her season of The Bachelorette on Monday, did she, as so many viewers suggested, compromise her desires? Or did she, instead, take a stand for the validity of those desires?
The Bachelorette and the Empty Redemptions of Reality TV
It went, basically, like this: After Rachel eliminated Eric Bigger from the final three men vying for her heart, her choice came down to Peter Kraus, who was a fan favorite, and Bryan Abasolo, who was not. Peter leveled with her: He takes marriage seriously. He wanted to propose to someone once, and only once. He didn’t feel ready to make that proposal to Rachel—not because he didn’t love her, but because he simply needed more time to be sure he was ready for such a commitment.
Bryan, on the other hand, was very much ready: To plan a life with Rachel, geography (she lives in Dallas; he lives in Miami) be damned. To sit down with Neil Lane (yes! the man himself!) and pick out an approximately 5,000-carat ring. And then to use that ring as a sparkling prop when he, in Bachelorette parlance, “got down on one knee.”
So while Monday’s finale hewed to the contours that any such finale will—a high-stakes choice, edited for maximum drama—this one had a distinct spin to it, one that was largely about the collision between expectations and reality: Rachel wasn’t choosing, in the end, between two men who were planning to propose to her. She was instead (at least according to the editing that will make any season of The Bachelorette what it is) making a choice between getting engaged and not getting engaged. Rachel, from the beginning, had said that she wanted to be engaged by the show’s conclusion. Bryan could give her that. Peter could not.
She chose Bryan.
In one way, yes, it was a disappointment. Rachel, after all, is an especially great Bachelorette. She is especially smart. She is especially successful in her career. She is especially funny. She is especially charismatic. She is especially kind. And Bryan is … fine. He had received Rachel’s First Impression rose, certainly, and had chemistry with Rachel from the beginning that has only grown. But, again, the stakes here weren’t presented as matters of chemistry. They were presented, by the show itself, as matters of practicality. Many viewers, because of that, saw her choice as an especially sad kind of victory: the workings of the head over the hopings of the heart. The objection wasn’t just that Bryan had previously been on another reality show—a red flag, Right Reasons-wise. It was also that he, per The Bachelorette’s setup, was not so much the soul mate as the rebound guy. And it was also that Rachel, who has always seemed too good for this show, once again seemed to deserve better.
As one viewer put it: “Rachel was clearly in love with Peter. Bryan was runner-up. She chose him because he was willing to give her a ring … she should have chosen true love over a ring.”
You could also read Rachel’s choice, though, in the opposite way: as an outcome worth celebrating. And not just because it was Rachel’s choice, which should perhaps in itself be the end of the discussion. Rachel also, after all, stuck to her guns: She refused to compromise her desires. She refused to settle. She took a long history—women, being made to settle; women of color, in particular, being made to settle—and looked it in the eyes and said, “Not today.” She had wanted to be proposed to (The Bachelorette is a show that will give a woman her pick of men to date, but that cannot envision her being the one to pop the question)—and she got, in the end, exactly what she wanted.
Which is also to say that, on national television, before an audience of millions, Rachel Lindsay did something mildly, and yet notably, subversive: She articulated a desire and then made choices to ensure that the desire was met. She was ready to settle down, she said from the beginning; at this point, it seems, that is precisely what she will do. You may not love the guy she is settling down with, but she is not at all, in that sense, settling.
The Bachelorette, for everything else it is about, is also a show about belief—in love, in marriage, in the idea that one wayward soul can find its way to another with the help of hot tubs and helicopters and sun-drenched Spanish vineyards. There has always been, in its machinations, a note of Kierkegaard: This is a show that believes, perhaps more than anything else, in leaps of faith. Many of the dates The Bachelorette sets up for its couples involve, yes, literal jumps: skydiving, cliff-jumping, plunges from yachts into sparkling Caribbean seas. But the show’s workings themselves—meet on national television, date on national television, get engaged on national television, go on to have a fulfilling and stable marriage—also require a certain amount of faith-leaping. They require a couple to trust wholly in the process, and in The Bachelor franchise’s highly produced approach to love itself; otherwise, the whole thing falls apart.
Rachel’s choice in the finale was an especially bold distillation of that approach—and another way in which Rachel chose not to settle. Peter, after all, had broken that faith; he had, in questioning the speed of the engagement, articulated doubt about the mechanics of the show itself. He had, in the show’s conception, lost faith in the process. Rachel, however, had not. She didn’t merely, in that sense, choose Bryan; she also chose faith—in reality television, in the Bachelorette producers, in the kind of love that can conquer everything else.
On Tuesday morning, she and Bryan appeared together on ABC’s Live with Kelly and Ryan. Ryan Seacrest read her the viewer letter suggesting that “she chose [Bryan] because he was willing to give her a ring.”
“It’s so funny to me,” Rachel replied. “I’ve never been one to settle or to be desperate for anything … that’s why I was 32 and still single. So, like, when people say things like that, like Bryan was runner-up, I’m like, no, I think you can clearly see that I have a lot of love for Bryan. I never would have just chosen a ring.”
She added: “I chose Bryan for a reason. Peter had his chance.”


Part of the pleasure of watching Wet Hot American Summer: First Day of Camp, the 2015 prequel series to David Wain’s cult comedy film, was the sheer absurdity of its existence. A parody of the endless march of revivals and off-brand sequels thrown at audiences, the show took the cast of comic actors who played a bunch of teenagers in 2001 (when they were already too old for the part), brought them all back 14 years later, and had them play even younger versions of themselves. The audacity of First Day of Camp was more than enough to make the whole endeavor, which aired over eight episodes on Netflix, worthwhile.
Now, the entire cast (with one notable exception) has reunited again for another eight-episode Netflix series, Wet Hot American Summer: Ten Years Later, a sequel to the original film that now has its ensemble playing their 2001 characters as 10 years older, placing them somewhere in their mid-20s. It’s still ridiculous—stars like Elizabeth Banks, Paul Rudd, Michael Showalter, and Amy Poehler are all in their 40s now—but the absurdity is less pronounced. Where First Day of Camp was concerned with a delightfully convoluted narrative designed to set up the events of the original film, Ten Years Later is more free to pursue whatever it wants. But that freedom ends up feeling like a burden.
Wet Hot American Summer’s Wild, Triumphant Return
There’s no real reason for these spinoff TV shows to exist, after all. The original Wet Hot American Summer is the perfect kind of slow-burning comedy favorite, a flop upon release that built up a following because of its stars (many of whom went on to greater fame), its moments of surrealism, and its endlessly quotable script. Sequels to such movies are often ill-advised, too concerned with fan service or topping the best moments of the previous entry to give audiences anything unique (Anchorman 2 comes to mind). But First Day of Camp worked by satirizing those sequel tropes and making each one all the more hilarious because of the advanced age of its cast of “teenagers.”
The first problem with Ten Years Later, which debuted on Netflix last Friday, is that it’s actually inspired by a throwaway joke in the original film, where the counselor friends pledge to all hang out at their beloved Camp Firewood 10 years on and see how they’ve grown up. Because there’s a more mundane reason for this show to exist, the ridiculousness—and humor—is immediately dialed back. More problematic, though, is the simple fact that teenagers are inherently foolish, amusing characters; as archetypes, 20-somethings are far less exciting.
Where Wet Hot American Summer and its prequel series mocked the bawdy sex comedies of the early ’80s, Ten Years Later is set in 1991, and so the creators Wain and Showalter are now aiming to parody the more sedate interpersonal dramedies of that era, such as The Big Chill, Singles, and St. Elmo’s Fire. Gone are dumb adolescent antics; replacing them are jokes about careerism, the fear of settling down, and the perils of being young parents.
It’s as staid as it sounds, and the show isn’t helped by the fact that many jokes referencing the movie have only grown more stale. So instead, Wain and Showalter (who both play multiple roles in the show) lump in a nutty subplot involving former president Ronald Reagan, current president George H.W. Bush, and a nuclear bomb, just to give the show a narrative spine. Showalter’s performance as Reagan, delivered behind heavy makeup, remains a blast, but even that is a rehash from First Day of Camp, where he first did it.
There’s also the return of the preppy rivals at Camp Tiger Claw (including Josh Charles, Kristen Wiig, and Rich Sommer), the washed-up rock god Eric (Chris Pine), and the dueling personalities of chefs Gene and Jonas (both played by Christopher Meloni), but the appearances are all surprises from the first series that, again, feel diminished. New additions to the cast like Mark Feuerstein (who plays another counselor, his presence explained through intentionally awkward inserts of him in archive footage) and Alyssa Milano (portraying a homicidal babysitter à la The Hand That Rocks the Cradle) are largely superfluous.
It’s still fun to see the stacked original cast of the show return for another go-round: Everyone, from Rudd to Poehler to Janeane Garofalo and Michael Ian Black, gets at least a couple of memorable scenes to play. The only missing cast member is mega-star Bradley Cooper, who showed up for First Day of Camp. He’s been replaced by Adam Scott, who is perfectly game but also ends up feeling unnecessary—it doesn’t help that Scott is part of the season’s worst storyline, the one involving Milano’s character.
Ten Years Later will appeal to fans who just want to see everyone get back together, only this time dressed in goofy ’90s outfits. But those viewers shouldn’t expect much else. For their part, Showalter and Wain remain among the funniest comic talents working today—Showalter directed The Big Sick this year, and Wain was one of the minds behind the incredible TV show Childrens Hospital. But it’s clear that, for all the goodwill generated by the original movie, the Wet Hot well has now officially run dry.


My first book was not what I dreamed it would be. I started writing professionally when I was in my late 20s, and while I worked my way up from a freelance music journalist to being an editor at The A.V. Club, the non-satirical wing of The Onion, I had one goal: to use all that experience as a springboard toward becoming an author. I had it all mapped out: After years of sacrifice and honing my craft, I would make my triumphant debut, with a book that might not become a bestseller but that’d be respected for its stunning originality and insight into the human condition.
Instead, my first book was The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook. Yes, that Captain Jack Sparrow. As played by Johnny Depp. From The Pirates of the Caribbean movies. Based not on an ancient myth or literary archetype, but on a Disney ride. Writing a media tie-in, as works officially attached to other properties are known, wasn’t the start I had in mind. But as many professional authors will attest, the path to publication is rarely the expected one. And my experience writing about the famed Disney pirate—as well as my second media tie-in, a project for the Goosebumps movie—made me think twice about my preconceptions about work-for-hire books. Not to mention those who make them.
The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook, which was published in 2011, came about in a circuitous way. The year before, I had left the The A.V. Club to freelance full-time and focus on finishing my first book. One day, a magazine editor of mine said he was taking a job at Quirk Books, the publisher infamous for its mashup novels, notably Seth Grahame-Smith’s Pride and Prejudice and Zombies. The editor asked, almost offhandedly, if I’d be interested in pitching him some book ideas.
I was. I threw everything I could against his wall; none of it stuck, but it seemed only a matter of time before we worked out a deal. Early on, I realized how lucky I was. Aspiring authors usually have to complete an entire novel draft or a lengthy nonfiction book proposal before approaching an editor—usually through an agent, which is another laborious step. Yet here I was, riffing with an editor who was helping me sculpt my crazy concepts into something suitable for his publisher.
Then, the editor sent me a proposal that changed my life: Would I want to write a tie-in book for On Stranger Tides, the upcoming fourth installment of Disney’s Pirates of the Caribbean franchise? The catch: The book had to be done in five weeks. Rather than adapting the film, I’d produce a tongue-in-cheek guide to piracy, a mix of real-life lore and the magical mythos of the movies.
I was a fan of pirates, of fantasy, and of the films themselves. The deadline would be brutal, but I was trying to make a leap into book-writing, and this was a book, period. I said yes. The fact that I was a near-starving writer, and the paycheck was several thousand dollars, didn’t hurt. So I signed the contract, pulled out my pirate-history books, cued up the first three Pirates of the Caribbean DVDs, and dove in.
Because The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook was written in the first person, I had to master the character’s salty, anachronistic turns of phase. Through them, I came to more deeply appreciate Jack. He may not be one of fiction’s most profound antiheroes, but he’s every inch the Jungian archetype of the trickster: the mischievous imp who disrupts social norms and often reason itself. I snuck that into the Handbook. I even went a little meta: “Nothing is less dignified,” I wrote, “than an otherwise lusty pirate with his or her nose stuck in a book. Needless to say, never brag about having read this one.” For my own amusement, I was also toying with the perception—sadly widespread—that writing media tie-ins is beneath the dignity of a respectable author.
Tie-in books are a huge and largely unheralded part of the publishing industry, sold everywhere from Barnes & Noble and Amazon to drugstores and theme-park gift shops. Before I wrote a media tie-in, I had no idea of the scale of the business. The Star Wars novel series began in 1976—the novelization of the first movie actually predated the 1977 cinematic release—and today boasts more than 125 millions copies in print. It’s been estimated that 1 to 2 percent of the audience of any given film, TV show, or game will buy a tie-in book related to that media property. If that audience is, say, 10 million strong, a tie-in book might sell 100,000 to 200,000 copies.
The writer Max Allan Collins did even better. His first tie-in novel, Dick Tracy—a novelization of the 1990 film—sold “a million copies or so,” he told me. Before that, he’d been a crime novelist and comic-book writer who also scripted the Dick Tracy newspaper strip. Collins was the obvious choice to write the tie-in, which sold spectacularly in the wake of film’s success.
Yet Collins realized that his novelization, despite being the biggest seller of his career by a mile, wouldn’t win him many accolades. “Because you are using someone else’s ideas, your contribution is obviously secondary,” Collins said. Since Dick Tracy, he’s novelized dozens of TV shows and movies including G.I. Joe, The X-Files, The Mummy, CSI: Miami, and Saving Private Ryan. “But the criticism comes from people who haven’t had to write one. It’s tough. Movies and novels are hugely different forms of narrative—the novel is interior, the film exterior.”
Collins co-founded the International Association of Media Tie-In Writers (IAMTW), for which he serves as president, to help promote the craft and its practitioners. Sometimes they’re established authors. Other times they’re newbies like me. There’s no system to scoring tie-in gigs: It’s a combination of luck, chops, and simply putting yourself out there. Some tie-in writers end up concentrating on that for their entire careers, making a name for themselves in that sphere. Many others write a couple tie-in books then move on as soon as the opportunity arises, hoping their name doesn’t become too closely associated with that line of work—like an up-and-coming actor trying to avoid being typecast as
an unsavory character.
I didn’t have that concern. When Quirk asked me if I wanted The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook to be published under a pseudonym, my answer came instantly: No way. If I poured myself into a book, no matter what it was, I wanted my name on it. I also grew up in an unstable household where every penny mattered. Turning up my nose at tie-in work, or disguising the fact that I’d done it, was a privilege I didn’t feel I had.
IAMTW’s vice-president, Lee Goldberg—himself a veteran of the trade—told me, “For decades, tie-in writers were looked upon as miserable, talentless hacks and their work just a step above porn. Which is strange, since the publishing industry aggressively seeks tie-in projects, and editors only hire writers they trust, who they know can deliver strong manuscripts under tight deadlines and often onerous creative restrictions.”
I came across a few of those restrictions while writing The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook. The book was to be heavily illustrated, and I had to write with that in mind—yet I had no real idea how the art would mesh with the text. I was required to work in a few details about On Stranger Tides, but I wasn’t given a script, just a vague list of some elements that would appear. On top of it all, Disney had to sign off on my interpretation of Jack each step of the way. Still, these challenges forced me to be more adaptable and think even more quickly on my feet—skills that, coincidentally, I was ascribing to Captain Jack.
I tackled another trickster for my second media tie-in: Slappy, the devilish ventriloquist’s dummy from R.L. Stine’s Goosebumps series. The book was titled Slappy’s Revenge: Twisted Tricks From the World’s Smartest Dummy, and it was published by Scholastic in conjunction with the big-screen adaptation of Goosebumps in 2015. I undertook the project with a lot more confidence. Not only had I earned my stripes with The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook, but Quirk had also published my own original novel, the political satire Taft 2012. I had a mere three weeks to write Slappy’s Revenge, but the pay was comparable to what I’d made on both the Handbook and Taft 2012.
As with Jack, I got to slip into the persona of Slappy. This time I was given the script for the film, for which I had to sign a nondisclosure agreement, as well as hundreds of stills to help me visualize the characters and creatures. Again, I wasn’t writing an adaptation; instead I had to create a bunch of Goosebumps-related riddles, parodies, and puns. As it turned out, Slappy’s favorite movie was Frying Nemo. (You may groan.) Though the assignment was fun, all these moving parts had to be linked by a narrative that resolved itself by the final page. My solution was to have Slappy smash the fourth wall and speak directly to the reader—the Sesame Street classic The Monster at the End of This Book was in the back of my mind—before handing the sharp-tongued dummy his comeuppance.
Unlike original books, tie-ins are work-for-hire gigs. That means they don’t usually pay royalties—so if the project ends up being wildly successful, the author doesn’t receive a share of each unit moved, only the money that was paid upfront. But that was fine with me. I didn’t create these megalithic properties; I was simply being allowed to play around in someone else’s world and get paid well for it. The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook and Slappy’s Revenge allowed me to dig myself out of the hole I’d gotten stuck in as a freelancer, where all my time and energy was spent on an exhausting treadmill of pitching and filing articles at a breakneck pace. They bought me the chance to breathe for a minute and finally work on my original, book-length projects.
The writer Wendy N. Wagner has had her own juggling act. Her first original novel, An Oath of Dogs, was published in July by Angry Robot, but she got her start writing media tie-ins. Skinwalkers and Starspawn were both set in the fantasy world of Pathfinder, the popular role-playing game. “I was a little worried about getting pigeonholed. Writing tie-ins is a fun challenge, but I really wanted to be able to create my own worlds and write by my own rules. I didn’t want people to think I was just this word-producing machine that spat out made-to-order adventures for the highest bidder,” she told me.
The income was worth it. “I got paid $5,000 for each of my novels,” Wagner said, “which in science fiction and fantasy is sort of a small but reasonable entry-level advance. Those books finished paying off my daughter’s braces, which was awesome. They were a good, reliable paycheck that always came on time, and I can’t say that about writing short fiction.”
She even found pride in helping to build the game’s fictional, collaborative world. “People read my books because they loved Pathfinder. They might not have even noticed who wrote those books. But there are fans out there playing their own Pathfinder games that use monsters that I helped envision,” Wagner said. “Wendy N. Wagner may not matter to those people, but what I created is a part of their weekend. It’s a part of their lives. And that’s pretty neato, you know?”
My own time in the media tie-in industry had at least one unexpected benefit: For the first time, my young niece Hazel took notice of what her Uncle Jason did for a living. She proudly showed my Pirates of the Caribbean and Goosebumps books to her friends, who were duly impressed. I even got to speak to her fourth-grade class about how to become a writer—which ended up being one of the most inspiring moments of my professional life. There’s nothing like having 9-year-olds earnestly ask, “What exactly is your self-editing process?” to reaffirm your faith in humanity.
Last year I spoke on a panel about tie-ins at the World Science Fiction Convention. One question kept popping up: How does one break into this peculiar wing of the business? The inquiry surprised me. The audience members weren’t necessarily fans of Slappy or Captain Jack Sparrow, as I’d expected. They were aspiring tie-in writers, as unglamorous as that may be in the literary world. Many of them already wrote fan-fiction; to them, tie-ins were a step up, not down.
The experience made me reconsider my own work. Yes, I started taking tie-in jobs to make a buck, to buy myself time to write my own books. But by the time I started working on my second tie-in project, I had already realized how much creativity can go into even the most commercially driven writing. I had jokingly told the readers of The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook not to brag about having read it. Finally, though, I’d learned that maybe it was okay—at least once in a while— to brag about having written it.


This post contains spoilers through the most recent episode of Game of Thrones, “The Spoils of War.”
It’s no secret that dragons have a deeper meaning on Game of Thrones. George R.R. Martin has specifically referred to them as “the nuclear deterrent.” Timothy Westmyer, a former research and program assistant at George Washington University, has argued in the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists that dragons are “living, fire-breathing metaphors for nuclear weapons,” and that the series is deliberate in using dragons as a warning about the “inherent dangers” and the responsibility that comes with possessing and wielding such power.
But in the most recent episode of the HBO show, “The Spoils of War,” Game of Thrones offered its most explicit portrayal yet of the carnage dragons can cause. In the episode’s climactic final sequence, Daenerys accompanied the Dothraki in a two-pronged attack on the Lannister and Tarly armies, flying Drogon over the troops and incinerating their supplies (and most of their soldiers). The resulting damage was graphic, and instantaneous. Some men were reduced to ashes in seconds, while others burned to death more slowly, screaming in agony. One soldier writhed in pain while the skin seemed to peel off his face. Both Jaime and Tyrion Lannister, watching from different vantage points, were visibly horrified by the spectacle.
Game of Thrones: Queen of the Ashes
Which is the whole point. Daenerys has weapons that should, by rights, make her the most powerful person in the Seven Kingdoms. But she’s hampered, ironically, by the fact that her dragons are so exponentially more dangerous than any other force on the show. (Wildfire, which both Tyrion and Cersei have deployed in the past, and which has similarly gruesome results, is notoriously unstable and hard to control. It’s been likened in the past to napalm, which the U.S. infamously deployed in the Vietnam War, and which was outlawed by the United Nations in 1980.)
Dragons, like nukes, have the capacity to inflict maximum casualties with minimal effort—something President Harry Truman described as “a rain of ruin from the air, the like of which has never been seen on this earth.” But the cost of such weapons is that they’re so effective they can almost never be used. As Jon Snow said to Dany before she set off with Drogon, she’s gathered her armies by wielding compassion, not brute force. If she uses her dragons “to melt castles and burn cities,” she’s no different from any other power-hungry zealot, and she sacrifices the ethical compass—the soft power—that’s gotten her this far.
That doesn’t mean she’s afraid to deploy them in battle, as was proved in “The Spoils of War.” And if Jaime survives, his account of witnessing dragons in action will bolster how seriously the Lannisters take Daenerys as an enemy. But there’s another topical aspect to the catch-22 of her nuclear option. Possessing such powerful weapons only works as a deterrent to war if your enemies are similarly appalled by the cost of using them, and Cersei in particular seems unlikely to shed tears for civilians. As Westmyer writes,
Optimists who welcome nuclear weapons as a stabilizing influence insist that by their very nature, these arms cause rational leaders of stable regimes to maintain strict control over their state’s arsenals and moderate their behavior—or risk retaliation. That prompts the question: What happens when nuclear weapons are in the hands of irrational leaders, less than stable countries, or non-state actors? Fortunately for Westeros, its “Mad King” had no dragons at his disposal. “Burn them all,” he snarled while ordering his city be set ablaze rather than surrender—showing how retaliatory threats mean little to someone bent on suicidal violence.
In other words, both dragons and nuclear weapons offer the ability to inflict near-total obliteration, and as such they become weapons that are extremely hard to wield. Mark Bowden, in his July/August Atlantic cover story on North Korea, wrote that “there are no good options” when you’re dealing with the threat of nuclear warfare. Daenerys, like the United States, has the ability to destroy everything and everyone that stands between her and power, but if her ultimate goal is peace, burning down the Seven Kingdoms isn’t an ideal tactic.
As Martin said in 2011, the Dragon Queen is the only person in Westeros who has the nuclear option at her disposal, but that doesn’t make her omnipotent. “Power is more subtle than that,” he explained. “You can have the power to destroy, but it doesn’t give you the power to reform, or improve, or build.” To co-opt the title of my colleagues’ Game of Thrones roundtable this week, what’s the upside in being queen of the ashes?


Every week for the seventh season of Game of Thrones, three Atlantic staffers will discuss new episodes of the HBO drama. Because no screeners were made available to critics in advance this year, we’ll be posting our thoughts in installments.
Lenika Cruz: Is your heart still pounding? Even if you had managed to keep yourself spoiler-free by avoiding the pesky headlines and articles about last week’s HBO leak, you may have sensed from the dramatic, martial tone of the “previously on” that this episode, “The Spoils of War,” was going to a be a doozy. After losing her first two battles—and her three principal Westerosi allies—Daenerys Targaryen finally got to do things the Mother of Dragons way: by saddling up on Drogon, rallying the Dothraki, and ambushing the Lannister and Tarly armies after their victory at Highgarden. Following the Crown’s successful campaign last week, the Tyrell gold is now secure inside King’s Landing, allowing the Lannisters to (finally) live up to their unofficial house words and repay their debt to the Iron Bank. But Dany, too, made good on her own house’s promise in the closing minutes of the episode, delivering a brutal helping of “Fire and Blood” in the first truly large-scale battle of the season so far.
Her scorched-earth campaign was a visceral reminder of the kind of internal conflict viewers might continue to face as storylines converge and characters’ loyalties place them on opposite sides. “Yeahhh!!!” I couldn’t help but cheer when I heard the hoofbeats and the frantic whooping of the Dothraki, as Cersei’s soldiers prepared, at last, to see the foreign horde they’d heard so much about. “Woooo!!!” I yelled, as Drogon fire-breathed all over the Lannister/Tarly troops—but only after I was certain Bronn and Jaime were on the other side of the battlefield. “Garggnnbugghhh!!” I gurgled when Drogon and Dany charged at Bronn and his scorpion, and then when Jaime charged at them with his spear.
Game of Thrones: All the Queens’ Men
The episode’s director, Matt Shakman, did a fantastic job with this sequence, concocting a vision of senseless slaughter roughly as hellish as the one from last year’s “Battle of the Bastards,” while adding in some gruesome new details. The men burning alive inside their armor, the columns of ash that were once soldiers crumbling in the wind, the thick choke of dark gray smoke whipping up from the flames, horses getting their (ugh) legs chopped off—all of it was far more vivid than the Lannister/Euron Greyjoy wins of previous weeks. And it ended with the fates of two fan favorites—Jaime and Drogon—in question (though I can’t imagine we’ve said goodbye to either already).
Dany, it seems, got the push she needed to commit to this plan from her new friend-prisoner-burgeoning love interest-ally-enemy-nephew-adviser Jon Snow. “The people who follow you know that you made something impossible happen,” he told her. “Maybe that helps them believe that you can make other impossible things happen.” (Cut to Davos, who made the “Hmmm, Jon, you sure you’re talking about Daenerys?” face the rest of us were probably making.) I’m relieved we don’t have to sit through hours of Dany questioning Jon’s character and motives, but she’s still begun to trust him surprisingly quickly, already asking him for strategy advice and disappearing into caves with him (though, she may not have been totally convinced Jon didn’t just do those drawings himself). But Jon, of course, had a point—one the show keeps trying to underscore by tossing in scenes like the one with Missandei, reminding us that for all of Dany’s obsession with knee-bending, she’s still a leader whose followers stand by her side more out of love and choice than duty or because of her birthright.
Dany’s leadership model is the kind you could imagine someone like Sansa—who’s cunning, who’s endured so much, who’s keen to do the actual work of ruling—emulating if given the chance. It was while Sansa was doing this work that Arya came home, after being away from Winterfell longer than all her siblings. I’m still not tired of these Stark reunions, but credit to the show for playing around with the emotional beats and making Arya’s return feel distinct from the previous ones. I can’t overstate how rewarding it was to see Arya and Sansa in the same room together again, even if their reconnection was less overtly sentimental than the Jon-Sansa one in last year’s “Home.” (Their wonderful exchange: “It’s a long story. I imagine yours is, too.” “Yes, not a very pleasant one.” “Mine neither. But our stories aren’t over yet.” “No, they’re not.”) I’m a little nervous about three living Starks being back together again, but for now I’ll revel in the fact that we got a brilliant fight scene between Arya and Brienne that was about as effective a pitch for a new spinoff (The Lady of Tarth and No One?) as you could hope for.
In the background, of course, doing everything but literally twirling his mustache and cackling maniacally, is the chaos-loving, ladder-climbing Littlefinger. This episode resurfaced one of the big remaining whodunnits from the show’s first season—who hired an assassin to kill a comatose Bran with a Valyrian steel dagger and why?—but I’ll admit not being able to fully see the contours of Petyr Baelish’s plan quite yet. All I can think is that Bran, who has now fully justified to me his strange behavior from last week, must know more about what Littlefinger’s going to do and what he has already done, even if he’s not in the position to change what’s destined to happen. Megan and Spencer, what do you think Littlefinger is up to? How did the big battle play out for you? And, crucially, if Jaime’s still alive, will he ever get Rickard—I mean Rickon—I mean, Dickon’s name right?
Megan Garber: Littlefinger! Ugh, Littlefinger. Mostly I think he is up to weirding me out in a way that I cannot adequately articulate even though I am a professional writer … but I’m with you, Lenika, beyond that I really don’t know—as I have never quite known—what his endgame is. And I actually think one of the canniest decisions the show’s producers have made was to make Littlefinger, in particular, such a mystery: to emphasize his inscrutability, to give him motivations that are so very unclear and mannerisms that are at once so proper and so decidedly improper. (Even his hair refuses to be made sense of: While the sides are middle-aged gray, the top hints that a Westerosi Rite-Aid managed to smuggle in some boxes of Just for Men®.) But I also think that Baelish as such a walking contradiction is, at least as far as the narrative stuff goes, extremely effective: In addition to being an agent of chaos, he’s also an agent of creepiness ... and he spreads the creepy all around, infusing it into every scene he’s in. He is unsettling, in every sense. He’s destabilizing. He’s like a human miasma. An excessively polite miasma.
So, yeah, let’s move on to something much more pleasant than Littlefinger: this episode’s fiery, gory battle. Traditionally, there’s been something about such a clash that has seemed to bring out Game of Thrones’s most cinematic impulses: the interpersonal feuds, and the assorted human pettinesses, and the philosophical differences about the purpose of power, all distilled down to a matter of moments, all resolved with swords and arrows and blood. The battle scenes, I have to admit, have in recent seasons gotten a little special effects-happy for my taste—I half-expected Jason Bourne to emerge at triple speed from behind a turret or something during the taking of Casterly Rock—but I thought this battle was effective particularly in its restraint: It had an intimacy to it, even in its scale. It was horrifying, in new ways. It managed to feel epic and visceral at the same time.
Which is also to say that I was totally with you, Lenika, on the “Garggnnbugghhh!!” And one of the things that drew me in, in particular, was the way the scenes—and the cameras that give them life—played with point of view: At one moment, we’re soaring with Dany on Drogon’s back, elevated over the chaos and carnage of the battle below. And the next we’re with Bronn, on the ground, in the midst of the tumult. And, actually, we’re more than just with him. Bronn, during the battle, was often shot from just below—the camera seemed to hover at the height of his waist—which emphasized this difference of perspective, and also destabilized the scene as it played out, and also brought an exceptionally literal spin to the idea of “ground truth.”
The cinematography here reminded me, in a strange (but maybe sort of fitting?) way, of Dunkirk—not just the dead-men-walking ideas at play in the martial elements of the skirmish, but also in the way the action was divided: Air as one battlefield—as one domain—and Land as another. And that division, the one made so clear with land-Bronn and air-Dany, was especially appropriate given the stakes of the battle. This wasn’t, after all, just a clash of militaries; it was a clash of philosophies. It was, very broadly, the Lannisters and their gold versus the Targaryen and her principles. It wasn’t right versus wrong—Game of Thrones is much more complicated than that—but it was definitely, in ways both literal and more figurative, “high” versus “low.”
And so is the episode itself. “The Spoils of War,” like Game of Thrones overall, pays a lot of attention to vision, and to ideas of perspective more broadly. (“You came home,” Bran reminds Arya, just after the two have been reunited—“I saw you at the crossroads.” She is taken aback. “You saw me?” she asks. “I see quite a lot now,” he replies.) There are Jon and Davos, descending the massive, stone staircase at Dragonstone—their brief scene shot from behind, at a sweeping distance, conveying both their elevation and their descent. There are Sansa and Littlefinger, gazing down at Arya and Brienne as the two fight. The girl finally bests the woman, and the scene concludes with a shot from Brienne’s point of view: Brienne and, with her, the viewer, is looking down at Arya. Arya is looking back at her, triumphant. She is looking triumphantly, by extension, at us.
And that’s more than a matter, I think, of clever camerawork. The emphasis on perspective in “The Spoils of War” also brings to the fore one of the longest-running interests of Game of Thrones: identity. What makes someone who they are. What changes a person into someone else. Arya “A Girl Has No Name” Stark, Theon “Reek” Greyjoy, Jon “But Who Is His Mother Really” Snow, Melisandre “The Red Woman” Magiclady, Tyrion “of House Lannister but Also Totally Not of House Lannister” Lannister. Grey Worm, who chooses the name that had been assigned to him. Oh, and also Daenerys “The First of Her Name, the Unburnt, Queen of Meereen, Queen of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Khaleesi of the Great Grass Sea, Breaker of Chains, and Mother of Dragons” Targaryen.
Do names matter? Do titles? To what extent do the world’s expectations of someone shape the person that someone becomes? To what extent can experience—can other people—do that shaping? Is Theon Greyjoy, after everything, still Theon Greyjoy? Is he Reek? Is he anything, anymore? Those types of questions emerged with a renewed sense of urgency in “The Spoils of War.” Bran informs Meera that “I’m not Bran—not anymore.” Davos, attempting to correct Missandei’s reference to “Lord Snow,” insists that he isn’t a lord. But: “King Snow?” Davos asks. “Isn’t it?” He pauses. “No, that doesn’t sound right. King Jon?” Arya, the prodigal daughter, raises her eyebrow when a distinctly unimpressed Winterfellian guard informs her that “Arya Stark is dead.” (He adds: “Best fuck off.”) But then! Like you suggested, Lenika, when Arya is reunited, after so long, with Sansa, the show hints that she might be becoming herself again. “Finally, a girl is no one,” Jaqen H’ghar had told her, last season. “A girl is Arya Stark of Winterfell,” she had corrected him. As she laughs with Sansa, that finally begins to feel true.
But the biggest moment, I thought, in a show that loves nothing better than revealing a character to be something other than what they seem, belonged to Bronn. Bronn starts “The Spoils of War” seeming to be interested in those spoils in the most literal way possible (“We pay our debts,” Jaime insists to him; “Right—just not to me,” Bronn complains). In battle, however, he proves himself to be much more principled—or at least much more self-sacrificing—than he had allowed himself to suggest before. Bronn, the … hero? Bronn, the savior? The scene in which the sellsword sees a fallen bag of gold, glinting amid all the blood and mud and chaos, and then must choose between the money and the valor was a taaaaad on the nose, I thought—a little too Walter Donovan in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade—but, still, it made its point: Bronn, given a choice between selfishness and selflessness, ended up choosing … wisely. At least at this moment. At least for now.
Spencer Kornhaber: The Dunkirk reference you used, Megan, is weirdly fitting—this battle was defined by asymmetrical firepower and total terror, rather than clichés of bravery. But real-world comparisons only get you so far here. In HBO’s after-the-episode segment, D.B. Weiss pointed out that the dragons factor meant the writers couldn’t quite draw from military history in the way that they normally do when crafting battles. Instead they imagined someone bringing an F16 to the Middle Ages. They didn’t just brainstorm the practical implications of napalming soldiers—they nailed the psychological disorientation that would have met a new and supernatural weapon of war.
That disorientation was certainly apparent in Jaime Lannister. One of the most famed fighters and military commanders in all of the land sat dumbstruck for much of the conflict, craning his neck and knotting his eyebrows and barking some obvious orders and not doing much else. Why didn’t he think to get someone behind the anti-dragon weaponry until well after Drogon arrived? My first, and possibly correct, impulse was to chalk the delay up as a schlocky move on the show’s part to ratchet up drama. But then again, it’s believable Jaime might be mentally paralyzed in the circumstances—how would you react to a dragon?
Surely adding to Jaime’s inner turmoil was a sense of déjà vu as a Targaryen torched human flesh before his eyes. Jaime’s life, after all, was cleaved by his decision to kill Daenerys’s father rather than let him incinerate House Lannister and the people of King’s Landing. The way he eventually moved from horrified spectator to decisive actor by charging at Dany made me think of his bathhouse testimony to Brienne in Season 3. To be sure, riding at Daenerys isn’t oathbreaking—it’s classic, if foolhardy, battlefield heroism. But the face-off was still a callback, a reminder of Jaime’s biography and Daenerys’s tainted parentage.
Never one to pass up a twist, Thrones decided to end the episode with Jaime’s life endangered not by fire but by water, and what had seemed like a deus-ex-machina save may actually have consigned him to the awful fate of drowning within his armor. But I’d bet on someone pulling from the depths, alive, in next week’s episode. There’s just so much juicy narrative potential still to be activated with Jaime—he’s still got to deliver Olenna’s confession about Joffrey to Cersei, for example. Then again, viewers know well that seemingly essential characters can be snuffed out at any time. If this is the end of Jaime’s arc, his history with the Targaryens would give it a mild sense of poetry.
So would the idea of him being dragged down by his golden hand. Much of the rest of the episode centered around characters negotiating—and rejecting—the system of lordly hierarchy that has defined Westeros for ages. Megan, you listed many of the examples of this in your discussion of Thrones’s interest in character change. We also has such dualities as Sansa insisting on being called Lady Stark as Brienne waved away such a title, Bronn playing up his working-class background when razzing the nervous noble Dickon Tarly, and Jon explaining his last name to Missandei, who emphasized that she followed Daenerys not because of heritage but because of merit.
Jon’s suspiciously convenient Powerpoint presentation in the Dragonstone caves crystalized what the show’s been getting at for a while now with the lords-and-ladies theme: A happy ending for Westeros might be one that sees society reverting to a time before Lannisters, Starks, and Targaryens existed, ruled by something other than bloodline. Haltingly, things do seem to be moving in that direction. With Cersei now childless, the Lannister line has been broken. Tyrion has turned against his own clan. And in Winterfell, Bran and Arya have basically mutated into something post-Stark—and very socially awkward.
The scene of Arya trying to convince the northern guards of her identity was a fun way to telegraph how much she and her home have transformed. Plus, given how much Thrones now yada-yadas small details on the way to big battles, I’m glad it still makes room for logistical questions such as “what’s the immigration procedure at the Winterfell gates?” Less fun: Arya’s meet-up with Sansa, which was so stilted and cold as to beggar belief. I get that they’ve changed, I get that they may not know how to talk to each other, but still, no amount of world-weariness would explain why Sansa didn’t open with “where the hell have you been?” The ever-more-insufferable Bran at least has a supernatural excuse for treating Meera like a hired porter he’s decided to stop paying. Arya may be a supreme assassin, but she’s still Sansa’s little sister, and hence was in dire need of a noogie in that crypt scene.
Fascinating as it is to see the Starks reuniting, the most pressing questions about family identity regard a Targaryen. Sometimes, Dany presents herself as a ideologically motivated conqueror for justice; other times, she invokes centuries of lineage for her claim. It’s inescapable that heritage really does matter in this world—she, after all, has her dragons because of who she is. But her pitch is in using that advantage for a higher purpose. Dany gives people hope that she can  “build a world that’s different from the shit one they’ve always known,” Jon says. But he warns, if she seeks to “burn castles and melt cities, you’re not different. You’re just more of the same.” Of course, to someone like Jaime Lannister, the difference between melting cities and melting soldiers is immaterial. Fire is fire—it needs to be extinguished.


When he set out to make Icarus, the playwright and actor Bryan Fogel had one goal: to examine how easy it is to get away with doping in professional sport. An enthusiastic amateur cyclist, he was disturbed by the fact that someone like Lance Armstrong could cheat for so many years and never fail a single drug test. “Originally,” he explains in the film, “the idea I had was to prove the system in place to test athletes was bullshit.”
What actually happened was a bit like tugging on an errant thread and having the entire clothing industry unravel right on top of you. Fogel, while conducting a human guinea-pig experiment in which he took performance-enhancing drugs to prepare for a race, was connected with a Russian doctor who ended up blowing the whistle on a state-sponsored doping scheme that had been ongoing in Russia for decades. Icarus, initially intended as a Super Size Me–style effort to poke holes in the anti-doping system, ended up capturing the maelstrom of one of the biggest scandals in sporting history, while former anti-doping officials were dying under mysterious circumstances and the IOC was pondering whether Russia should be banned outright from the 2016 Rio Olympics.
Did Hulk Hogan Neuter the First Amendment?
It’s fair, then, to call Icarus a coup for a first-time documentarian, the product of both dumb luck and a strange rapport between Fogel and Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov, who is the director of Moscow’s anti-doping center when Fogel first meets him via Skype in 2014. The first 40 minutes of the film—released on Netflix on Friday—focus on Fogel’s efforts to game the system while competing in the Haute Route, an annual event in that Alps that he describes as “the single hardest amateur bike race in the world.” The first time he competed, drug-free, he came in 14th out of 440. This time he wants to do better, using the race to prove that if “I could get away with it, that would mean that pretty much any athlete could do it and get away with it.”
An anti-doping scientist at UCLA introduces Fogel to Rodchenkov, an instantly endearing and offbeat character who croons at Fogel’s dog over Skype and has a strangely encyclopedic grasp of doping itself—what Fogel should take, and how he’ll feel as he starts his new regime. It  involves prescription steroids and hormones issued by an anti-aging doctor, and fairly graphic footage of Fogel injecting himself daily. Rodchenkov is a cheerfully game accomplice, and at some point Fogel starts to wonder—why is a lab director in charge of anti-doping efforts for the Sochi Olympics showing a relative stranger how to take performance-enhancing drugs and get away with it?
The answer comes in November 2015, when Rodchenkov is heavily implicated in a report by the World Anti-Doping Agency that ties him to state-sponsored doping efforts in Russia. “Bryan, it’s a disaster, they’re killing people, cutting heads,” he tells Fogel over Skype. And just like that, the movie switches course, following Rodchenkov’s efforts to travel to the United States and blow the whistle on his involvement in what the movie paints as staggering, systemic corruption.
Rodchenkov is a dream subject—eccentric, garrulous, frequently shirtless, and immensely charming—and the movie’s most obvious flaw is that it fails to fully parse his motivations. Is he sacrificing his life in Russia and his family left back home to bravely expose a system he’s worked within his whole life? (In one scene, offhand, he tells Fogel his mother used to inject him with stanozolol when he was a professional runner.) Or, after being named and shamed so publicly by WADA, is he simply out of options? Fogel uses George Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four as a framing device to argue that it’s the former—Rodchenkov recalls reading the book in his 30s after it was no longer banned in Russia, and being struck by its scenes of government-sanctioned destruction of truth.
But Fogel, too, is an intriguing character in his own film, who says he wants to cheat to highlight cheating itself, but who clearly has some of the professional athlete’s compulsion to win at all costs. And as Rodchenkov wrangles the FBI, the Russian FSB, and the media, Fogel doesn’t just capture the action. He becomes Rodchenkov’s advocate and defender, meeting with lawyers, finding him housing, and enabling the Russian’s efforts to disperse the significant evidence he’s gathered.
The scale of the cheating Rodchenkov helps expose is clearest when Fogel meets with scientists and officials at WADA in 2016, and explains that they have spreadsheets detailing every athlete on the state-mandated doping protocol at the London Olympics, and how many of them were implicated. The faces around the table are dumbstruck: a perfect symphony of horror, anger, and glum acceptance. “And he’s sorry? Grigory?” one of the WADA officials asks. It’s a question that neither Fogel nor Icarus really ever answers. The larger point, they emphasize, is that none of this would have ever come to light without him.


My Buddy
Patti Smith | The New Yorker
“Sam [Shepard] liked being on the move. He’d throw a fishing rod or an old acoustic guitar in the back seat of his truck, maybe take a dog, but for sure a notebook, and a pen, and a pile of books. He liked packing up and leaving just like that, going west. He liked getting a role that would take him somewhere he really didn’t want to be, but where he would wind up taking in its strangeness; lonely fodder for future work.”
Confederate: Will a Grassroots Movement Sink the Controversial HBO Series?
Jake Nevins | The Guardian
“Perhaps, for HBO, it is [a risk worth taking], if only because even a version of Confederate that confirms our worst suspicions couldn’t sink TV’s most formidable cash cow. … The team behind Confederate seems to be cautiously optimistic that the rewards and provocations of alt-history fiction—its ability to jolt us into consciousness, to recognize parallels between the past and present and force audiences to reckon with them—outweigh the risks.”
Remembering Editor Judith Jones
Ellen O’Connell Whittet | Literary Hub
“While those familiar with 20th century literature may have heard of Maxwell Perkins, editor to Thomas Wolfe, Ernest Hemingway, and F. Scott Fitzgerald (or seen the 2016 film Genius about his editing), Jones recognized a new type of genius, the diamonds in the rough, often women, who had not found editors who took their kinds of work seriously.”
Angelina Jolie and German Philosophy: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
The Nicest Evil Girl in the World
Allison P. Davis | The Cut
“In person, [Aubrey] Plaza is less deadpan, less caustic, less sarcastic, maybe even goofier, than the onscreen persona that made her famous. Still, she tells me, she’s well aware that I expected her to be a total jerk during tennis. It happens to her all the time, even now, at 33, almost a decade after she first played April.”
What’s So Hard About Casting Indian Actors in Indian Roles?
Kevin Noble Maillard | The New York Times
“‘Redface,’ the manufacturing of ersatz images of Native American identity, has long been a problem in Hollywood, and there’s a well-documented history of hiring non-Indians for Indian roles. But [Taylor] Sheridan’s solution is thorny, too. When vetting is a challenge even for tribes, which can become embroiled in controversies over identity, how can casting directors do it?”
Why Don’t Dystopias Know How to Talk About Race?
Angelica Jade Bastién | Vulture
“Most dystopian films end up ignoring the thorny politics of entrenched systems of oppression in favor of signaling out one lead character who gloriously resists and somehow survives—a conservative narrative that suggests oppression can be overcome if people just try hard enough. There is something disturbing about filmmakers portraying white characters as both those most harmed by oppression and the sole heroes able to dismantle it.”
How Charlize Theron Became the Greatest Action Star in the World
Kevin Fallon | The Daily Beast
“The truth is that Lorraine—and Charlize’s performance—stands on its own, a one-two knockout following her turn in Mad Max: Fury Road that cements her as the greatest action hero currently working in film. She boasts the athleticism, depth, magnetism, and wanton disregard for convention that intensifies her appeal, and the lack of which makes so many other action stars so bland.”
The Complicated Life and Death of Hideki Irabu
Ben Reiter | Sports Illustrated 
“[George] Steinbrenner, though, didn’t pay him $12 million for just above average, nor did [Rudy] Giuliani hand him a crystal apple for just above average, nor did Yankees fans applaud him for just above average. As it turned out, there were many things about the failed ace that none of them grasped.”


Don’t Miss
The Lost Cause Rides Again—Ta-Nehisi Coates explains that HBO’s Confederate takes as its premise an ugly truth that black Americans are forced to live every day.
Film
Why The Emoji Movie Fails—Megan Garber posits that the new book The Emoji Code celebrates the democratic ambiguity of pictographs, while the movie’s conceit stifles it.
The Joy of The Incredible Jessica James—Sophie Gilbert thinks James C. Strouse’s movie is a predictable romantic comedy elevated by an incandescent star.
How Logan Lucky Can Bring Back the Mid-Budget Movie—David Sims believes Steven Soderbergh’s new crime caper, being released and marketed without the help of big studios, could change the way Hollywood works.
The Lost Boys’ Subtly Radical Vision of Family—Brandon Tensley revisits the 1987 vampire horror-comedy that debuted at a time when America was preoccupied with the evolution of traditional kinship bonds.
Menashe Is a Moving Drama of Hasidic Life—David Sims appreciates Joshua Weinstein’s debut fiction film as a powerful, if small-scoped, depiction of a father and son living in a closed society.
The Disappointments of Detroit—Christopher Orr regrets that despite moments of emotional power, Kathryn Bigelow’s film offers a narrow and unnuanced portrait of the city’s 1967 riots.
TV
Did 13 Reasons Why Spark a Suicide Contagion Effect?—Sophie Gilbert looks at a new study that reveals internet searches for suicide skyrocketed in the wake of the show’s release.
Ava DuVernay on Queen Sugar and Her Hollywood Journey—Adrienne Green talks to the director about the show’s midseason finale, the importance of telling black stories, and her secret to navigating the film and TV industry.
Lyanna Mormont and the Slogan Feminism of Game of Thrones—Megan Garber analyzes the show’s complicated relationship with the women in its world and how it’s trying to simplify things heading into its conclusion.
Game of Thrones: All the Queens’ Men—Lenika Cruz, David Sims, and Spencer Kornhaber discuss the third episode of the seventh season.
Game of Thrones: That Girl Was Poison—Megan Garber emphasizes that in a show deeply concerned with the morality of its killings, toxic potions have been weapons of last resort.
The Bachelorette and the Empty Redemptions of Reality TV—Megan Garber watches the show’s The Men Tell All special, which treated the confrontation of Lee Garrett for his racist tweets as a productive conversation but fell short of its intended goals.
Books
What We’re Reading This Summer—The Atlantic’s editors and writers recommend a collection of books.
What We Lose: A Striking Novel About Filial Grief—Amy Weiss-Meyer reviews Zinzi Clemmons’s debut, which tangles with familiar questions but uses a propulsive experimentalism in lieu of linear narrative.
Why Men Pretend to Be Women to Sell Thrillers—Sophie Gilbert examines how female writers have come to dominate crime fiction.
Theater
Remembering Sam Shepard—David Sims eulogizes the legendary American playwright, novelist, screenwriter, and actor, who died at the age of 73.


HBO’s prospective series Confederate will offer an alternative history of post-Civil War America. It will ask the question, according to co-creator David Benioff,  “What would the world have looked like … if the South had won?” A swirl of virtual protests and op-eds have greeted this proposed premise. In response, HBO has expressed “great respect” for its critics but also said it hopes that they will “reserve judgment until there is something to see.”
This request sounds sensible at first pass. Should one not “reserve judgment” of a thing until after it has been seen? But HBO does not actually want the public to reserve judgment so much as it wants the public to make a positive judgment. A major entertainment company does not announce a big new show in hopes of garnering dispassionate nods of acknowledgement. HBO executives themselves judged Confederate before they’d seen it—they had to, as no television script actually exists. HBO hoped to communicate that approval to its audience through the announcement. And had that communication been successful, had Confederate been greeted with rapturous anticipation, it is hard to imagine the network asking its audience to tamp down and wait.
The Case for Reparations: An Intellectual Autopsy
HBO’s motives aside, the plea to wait supposes that a problem of conception can be fixed in execution. We do not need to wait to observe that this supposition is, at best, dicey. For over a century, Hollywood has churned out well-executed, slickly produced epics which advanced the Lost Cause myth of the Civil War. These are true “alternative histories,” built on “alternative facts,” assembled to depict the Confederacy as a wonderland of virtuous damsels and gallant knights, instead of the sprawling kleptocratic police state it actually was. From last century’s The Birth of a Nation to this century’s Gods and Generals, Hollywood has likely done more than any other American institution to obstruct a truthful apprehension of the Civil War, and thus modern America’s very origins. So one need not wait to observe that any foray by HBO into the Civil War must be met with a spirit of pointed inquiry and a withholding of all benefit of the doubt.
Skepticism must be the order of the day. So that when Benioff asks “what would the world have looked like … if the South had won,” we should not hesitate to ask what Benioff means by “the South.” He obviously does not mean the minority of  white Southern unionists, who did win. And he does not mean those four million enslaved blacks, whom the Civil War ultimately emancipated, yet whose victory was tainted. Comprising 40 percent of the Confederacy’s population, this was the South’s indispensable laboring class, its chief resource, its chief source of wealth, and the sole reason why a Confederacy existed in the first place. But they are not the subject of Benioff’s inquiry, because he is not so much asking about “the South” winning, so much as he is asking about “the white South” winning.
The distinction matters. For while the Confederacy, as a political entity, was certainly defeated, and chattel slavery outlawed, the racist hierarchy which Lee and Davis sought to erect, lives on. It had to. The terms of the white South’s defeat were gentle. Having inaugurated a war which killed more Americans than all other American wars combined, the Confederacy’s leaders were back in the country’s political leadership within a decade. Within two, they had effectively retaken control of the South.
Knowing this, we do not have to wait to point out that comparisons between Confederate and The Man in the High Castle are fatuous. Nazi Germany was also defeated. But while its surviving leadership was put on trial before the world, not one author of the Confederacy was convicted of treason. Nazi Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop was hanged at Nuremberg. Confederate General John B. Gordon became a senator. Germany has spent the decades since World War II in national penance for Nazi crimes. America spent the decades after the Civil War transforming Confederate crimes into virtues. It is illegal to fly the Nazi flag in Germany. The Confederate flag is enmeshed in the state flag of Mississippi.
The symbols point to something Confederate’s creators don’t seem to understand—the war is over for them, not for us. At this very hour, black people all across the South are still fighting the battle which they joined during Reconstruction—securing equal access to the ballot—and resisting a president whose resemblance to Andrew Johnson is uncanny. Confederate is the kind of provocative thought experiment that can be engaged in when someone else’s lived reality really is fantasy to you, when your grandmother is not in danger of losing her vote, when the terrorist attack on Charleston evokes honest sympathy, but inspires no direct fear. And so we need not wait to note that Confederate’s interest in Civil War history is biased, that it is premised on a simplistic view of white Southern defeat, instead of the more complicated morass we have all around us.
And one need not wait to ask if Benioff and D.B. Weiss are, at any rate, the candidates to help lead us out of that morass or deepen it. A body of work exists in the form of their hit show Game of Thrones. We do not have to wait to note the persistent criticism of that show is its depiction of rape. Rape—generational rape, mass rape—is central to the story of enslavement. For 250 years the bodies of enslaved black women were regarded as property, to be put to whatever use—carnal and otherwise—that their enslavers saw fit. Why HBO believes that this duo, given their past work, is the best team to revisit that experience is a question one should not wait to ask.
And all this must be added to a basic artistic critique—Confederate is a shockingly unoriginal idea, especially for the allegedly avant garde HBO. “What if the white South had won?” may well be the most trod-upon terrain in the field of American alternative history. There are novels about it, comic books about it, games about it, and a mockumentary about it. It’s been barely a year since Ben Winters published Underground Airlines.
Storytellers have the right to answer any question they choose. But we do not need to wait to examine all the questions that are not being chosen: What if John Brown had succeeded? What if the Haitian Revolution had spread to the rest of the Americas? What if black soldiers had been enlisted at the onset of the Civil War? What if Native Americans had halted the advance of whites at the Mississippi? And we need not wait to note that more interesting than asking what the world would be like if the white South had won is asking why so many white people are enthralled with a world where the dreams of Harriet Tubman were destroyed by the ambitions of Robert E. Lee.
The problem of Confederate can’t be redeemed by production values, crisp writing, or even complicated characters. That is not because its conceivers are personally racist, or seek to create a show that endorses slavery. Far from it, I suspect. Indeed, the creators have said that their hope is to use science fiction to “show us how this history is still with us in a way no strictly realistic drama ever could.” And that really is the problem. African Americans do not need science-fiction, or really any fiction, to tell them that that “history is still with us.” It’s right outside our door. It’s in our politics. It’s on our networks. And Confederate is not immune. The show’s very operating premise, the fact that it roots itself in a long white tradition of imagining away emancipation, leaves one wondering how “lost” the Lost Cause really was.
It’s good that the show-runners have brought on two noted and talented black writers—Nichelle Tramble Spellman and Malcolm Spellman. But one wonders: If black writers, in general, were to have HBO’s resources and support to create an alternative world, would they choose the world dreamed up by the progenitors of the Ku Klux Klan? Or would they address themselves to other less trod areas of Civil War history in the desire to say something new, in the desire to not, yet again, produce a richly imagined and visually beguiling lie?
We have been living with the lie for so long. And we cannot fix the lie by asking “What if the white South won?” and waiting for an answer, because the lie is not in the answer, but in the question itself.


In the early morning hours of Sunday, July 23, 1967, Detroit police raided an unlicensed social club, or “blind pig,” on the city’s Near West Side. The all-black clientele, who had been celebrating soldiers returning from Vietnam, were hauled away in paddy wagons, igniting five days of rioting. Stores were looted, cars and buildings burned. State troopers, the National Guard, and eventually two airborne divisions were called in. By the end, more than 7,000 arrests were made, and 43 people, mostly black, were dead.
The director Kathryn Bigelow’s Detroit opens with lightly animated variations on Jacob Lawrence’s painting series on the Great Migration, as onscreen text explains the deep roots of black Detroit’s discontent. Bigelow then dramatizes the raid on the blind pig and the outward ripple of violence through the city. A young John Conyers, then serving his second term in Congress, pleads with residents, “I need you not to mess up your own neighborhood.” We see footage of Michigan Governor George Romney, bearing an almost disconcerting resemblance to his son. A little girl peering out a window is mistaken for a sniper and shot dead. A baby-faced detective shoots a looter in the back and is informed by a superior that he may face murder charges. For a time, it appears that Bigelow, as she did in her superb and sophisticated Zero Dark Thirty, will tell a broad, multi-faceted story, the tale of a city that has become a war zone.
Kathryn Bigelow Sort of Apologizes for 'Zero Dark Thirty' Torture Confusion
But she doesn’t. Working from a screenplay by her customary collaborator, Mark Boal, Bigelow instead quickly narrows her focus to a single building on the night of July 25th. The building is a detached house that served as an “annex” to the black-owned Algiers Motel. On the night in question, 10 black men and two white women were in the annex when nearby Guardsmen believed a sniper had fired on them from one of the windows. Along with Detroit police and state troopers, they shot out windows and then stormed the building. By the end of the night, three of the residents—all black men—would be shot dead, and the remainder beaten and humiliated.
Detroit is a powerful, harrowing film. Insofar as it seeks to place viewers in the shoes of its helpless, terrified victims of police brutality, it succeeds to an almost unbearable degree. But that is a strangely narrow ambition for a filmmaker of Bigelow’s gifts, not to mention a film whose title encompasses an entire city. What is missing is not merely scope, but nuance: Zero Dark Thirty and Bigelow’s earlier The Hurt Locker conveyed not merely the conflict between characters but also that within them. Detroit, by contrast, is purely a story of villains and victims, a horror movie made all the more horrible by the fact that it is true.
Inevitably, accounts vary concerning precisely what took place in the Algiers Motel annex that night. (John Hersey wrote a 1968 book trying to reckon with these inconsistencies called The Algiers Motel Incident.) Bigelow and Boal have done their best to recount the events as accurately as possible, but unlike Hersey they have to pick one story and stick with it. And the story they choose, though chilling and intense, is disappointingly one-dimensional in its portrayal of both the Algiers Motel residents and their police assailants. (In order to clarify the choices the filmmakers made, I will describe some of the historic and cinematic details; those concerned about mild spoilers, be advised.)
The apparent “sniper fire” was one resident fooling around harmlessly with a starter pistol. Although he was shot almost immediately after authorities stormed the building, the pistol was never recovered. Police then rounded up the remaining residents in a ground-floor hallway, among them a returning vet (the excellent Anthony Mackie), a doo-wop singer (Jacob Latimore), and the two party-seeking young women (Hannah Murray and Kaitlyn Dever). When the Guardsmen and state troopers leave the scene—the latter, sensing trouble, don’t want to “get involved in any civil-rights incident”—the residents are left at the mercy of three Detroit policemen. They are all, like the vast majority of the force at the time, white.
Two of the cops (played by Ben O’Toole and Jack Reynor) are clearly racist and comfortable with the use of violent force on civilians, in particular black ones. But the third (Will Poulter) is a sociopath out of central casting, right down to the Mephistophelean tilt of his eyebrows. Lest we have any doubt on this score, he is the same baby-faced officer whom we saw kill a looter without remorse earlier in the film. He is insistent that he will not leave the premises until a shooter is identified and the gun recovered. To this end, he and his partners line the residents up facing the walls of the hallway and proceed to use every brutal tool at their disposal: beatings, murder threats, mock executions, and ultimately (if, in Bigelow and Boal’s telling, somewhat accidentally), actual killings.
This scene in the hallway is the centerpiece of the two-hour-plus film, and it is nothing short of horrifying. The residents’ terror is palpable, as is the cops’ air of utter impunity. But the impact of violence in cinema is rarely cumulative: Each successive depiction may repulse, but over time they begin to numb as well. So it is with the hallway scene. What begins as a shocking portrait of police misconduct gradually becomes a test of audience endurance.
If this extended central act is problematic in narrative terms, it is even more so when it come to the film’s political message. Poulter’s diabolical cop, however accurate, tells us next to nothing about the cultural and institutional forces that fed racism and abuse in the city (for example, the lack of a civilian police review board, and a police “value system” that encouraged bigotry). He is evil, full stop, with no further context or explanation required.
Bigelow and Boal’s efforts to avert any hint of moral complication is made most apparent in their treatment of the most ambiguous figure in the story, Melvin Dismukes, a black private-security guard who was also present at the motel and, according to some witnesses, participated in the beatings. Detroit does not consider this possibility, instead presenting Dismukes (played with quiet charisma by John Boyega) as a good man in an impossible situation, a peacemaker who tries only to protect the motel residents. The film presents his subsequent prosecution—in extreme contrast to that of the white cops—as a gross injustice. And it does not mention at all that he, along with the cops, was found guilty by an informal tribunal of black city leaders that included Rosa Parks.
In Zero Dark Thirty, Bigelow and Boal embraced such moral complexities and contradictions. Indeed, the film was so nuanced that some viewers—egged on by self-interested critiques from Senators John McCain and Dianne Feinstein, among others—believed the film to be “pro-torture,” which it emphatically was not. (Always be skeptical when political figures present themselves as film critics: The former LBJ aide Joseph Califano similarly helped torpedo Selma’s Oscar chances with an op-ed in The Washington Post.)
It is easy to understand why Bigelow and Boal sought to avoid such ambiguities in Detroit—given both the ugly tensions of the current political moment and the ways in which Zero Dark Thirty was misconstrued. But the result is a film that, for all its emotional power, is strangely disengaged from the cultural and systemic forces that led to police brutality in 1967 and continue to do so today. It is an opportunity missed.


The Emoji Movie might have been 💯 . It might have been a work of quiet genius, in the manner of Toy Story or The Lego Movie or Inside Out: a quirky and soulful exploration of the worlds that exist in parallel to our own, investing objects that would seem merely to be dully inanimate with story and, thus, empathy. It might have been, too, a particularly timely exploration of smartphones and their contents: Here, after all, are objects that are with so many of us, at our sides and in our hands, humming bits of glass and metal that tell a million little stories with each swipe, and each tap, and each touch of a warm human pulse.
But: no. The Emoji Movie, instead, is a frenetic mishmash—not so much a single story of a parallel world so much as a roller-coaster-y tour of some of the apps of 2017: Spotify, Instagram, Twitter, Candy Crush, even Dropbox. Everything, here, is branded—even the parallel world itself, Textopolis, which is home to Gene, the offspring of two “meh” emojis. Gene is, in the grand tradition of such for-kids-but-also-not-totally-for-kids films, Different. He is not limited, in the way of the emoji, to one expression; he can make them all. But in order to realize that which makes him Different might actually make him Special, Gene first goes on a dizzying journey—through Textopolis, yes, but also through Spotify and Just Dance and YouTube and, in general, late capitalism as it is understood and manufactured by the Hollywood of the moment.   
Because of that—and because also, ironically, of the premise that might have been 💯—critics eviscerated The Emoji Movie. Really gleefully eviscerated it. (Schadenfreudenunicoden?) The New York Times called it “nakedly idiotic.” BuzzFeed wrote that “it’s barely a movie so much as a confused attempt to both condescend to an audience about their short attention spans thanks to mobile devices while also trying to profit off of that very same audience.” Gizmodo did an all-emoji review of the film featuring, primarily, the Thinking Face emoji in several permutations. So critically unloved was this film—so squandered the promise it represented—that for a moment it seemed to be in contention for that rarest of honors: a 0 percent approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes. (Alas, even that moon-shooting was a failure: The film currently stands at an awkward score of 7 percent.)
The Case Against the Grammar Scolds
In a weird way, then, The Emoji Movie is not just a critical flop, but also a metaphor for a Hollywood that is struggling to find the line between branding that audiences love and branding that audiences resent. Here is a film that takes some of the most intimate tools of people’s lives—the hearts and eggplants and joy-tears and tacos and other images that help them to express their love, and their desire, and their sadness—and considers how wacky it would be if one of those images was actually a guy named Gene. Here is a film that takes the revolution that has resulted from the advent of digital communication and whimsically brands it. Emojis, after all, are not just the little doodads that live in your WhatsApp. They are also, in the most basic and most profound of ways, tools—parts of a global continuum that has included everything from hieroglyphs to emoticons to text itself. They ask questions about what it really means for something, at this point in human history, to be “universal.”
The Emoji Movie, as it happens, shares a rough premiere date with The Emoji Code, the new book from the scholar and prolific author Vyvyan Evans. Evans’s book (subtitle: The Linguistics Behind Smiley Faces and Scaredy Cats) is an analysis—aimed at a popular audience—of the academic research that has been conducted about emojis since their creation in the late 1990s. It summons linguistics, and psychology, and cognitive science to consider why emojis have proven so popular and, so far, enduring. It reads, often, as a defense of what Evans refers to as Emoji, with a capital E: the complicated system of pictographs that augment text in digital communication. The collection of unicode that, Evans argues, “enables us to provide the non-verbal cues otherwise missing from textspeak.”
Evans’s book is a thorough exploration, in other words, of the extremely two-dimensional stars of The Emoji Movie. But it is also, in its arguments, something of an implied condemnation of The Emoji Movie. In Evans’s science-informed telling, emojis are not a language unto themselves, as has sometimes been suggested, but rather tools of communication that are productively basic: useful bridges of the emotional gaps that can exist in the dull black and white of text as it is rendered on a screen. The Emoji Code in many ways champions emojis against those who have seen the cheeky pictographs not as extensions of English, but as a threat to it—and to, by extension, language as we have known it.
And while that framing can itself occasionally read as overly two-dimensional—there are few people, at this point, who seem to believe that emojis will be the death of English, or any other language—it also situates The Emoji Code well with the ideas espoused by the linguist John McWhorter, and by the linguist Gretchen McCulloch, and by so many other canny observers of English as it lives and grows in its new digital environments: Language, breathing free, is its own kind of democracy. And that is evident online, in particular, where a good turn of phrase, or a new meme, or indeed a cleverly deployed emoji, can be so easily amplified and adapted and woven into the language. Emojis, in particular, are elastic in that way: They can mean whatever the writer, and whatever the recipient, decide they mean, together.
That can lead to a productive kind of ambiguity. Remember that tattoo Drake got a few years ago, which could be read either as two hands, praying, or as two hands, frozen in a high five? The star, as New York’s Adam Sternbergh pointed out, finally settled the matter: “I pity the fool who high-fives in 2014,” Drake clarified on his Instagram. But there would be many more debates in that vein. Are those dancing twins, symbols of female friendship, or Playboy bunnies, symbols of female objectification? Is that a toothy mouth-gape a grin or a grimace? When I texted “Drinks?” and you texted back, “🐙,” what did you mean?
This kind of ambiguity, Evans suggests, also gives way to useful flexibility. It allows emojis the kind of semantic suppleness that helps them to humanize, and augment, and otherwise expand, our text-based communications. Emojis can function as punctuation. They can work as pictographic versions of “lol.” They can convey personality—identity—with notable economy. Slack, the group-messaging service widely used for professional chatting, recently offered users the ability to add emojis to their handles, as a kind of status update—a 📅  would mean “in a meeting,” a 🚌  would mean “commuting,” a 🌴  would mean “on vacation,” and so on. Almost immediately, though, the service’s users expanded on Slack’s idea: They began using the emoji-status capability to augment their handles in more playful and expressive ways. Suddenly, Slack chats proliferated with people whose names were accompanied by screaming cats and expressionless faces and tiny, squared portraits of Jay-Z. The emojis had been used for a different purpose than the one originally intended. They had been made at once more fun and more expressive of users’ identities. They had been, in their way, democratized.
It’s a small point when it comes to emojis but a bigger one when it comes to the political power of language. Emojis are part of a broader phenomenon playing out across social media: English is exploding, at the moment, with new words and new grammars and new modes of human expression. It is alive—not in the way the creators of The Emoji Movie have imagined on our behalf (hey again, Gene), but in a much more meaningful way. As Evans puts it:
While Emoji will surely continue to evolve, and other systems and codes will be developed that will complement and, doubtless, replace Emoji as it currently exists, its emergence provides the beginning of a more or less level playing field, between face-to-face interaction and digital communication—better enabling effective communication in the digital sphere.
The Emoji Movie is notable in part because, in its very conceit, it pushes back against all of that buzzing evolution. It tries to brand it. It tries to turn it into intellectual property. As Alex French reported in a fantastic piece for The New York Times Magazine, there’s a booming business in Hollywood right now, one that involves taking existing intellectual property and, through the insistent alchemy of the studio budget, converting it into a Story. Angry Birds. Battleship. Fruit Ninja. Jumanji. And on and on.
Films like this are of course part of a much larger trend in Hollywood, the one that involves comic-book franchises, and sequels-to-sequels, and a hefty reliance on the general notion of the “universe”—films that give rise to anxieties about the reboot industrial complex and that cause people to wonder, extremely fairly, whether Hollywood is simply out of new ideas. (In 2016, La La Land was the only film of the year’s 20 top-grossers to have been wholly original—that is, not based on existing material. In 1996, nine of those 20 had been based on original screenplays.)
But The Emoji Movie and its fellow travelers are different. They aren’t merely adapting stories from another genre; they are taking something that has no story of its own—the toy, the game, the emotion—and attempting to inject story into it. As the producer Tripp Vinson told French, the changes that have come about in Hollywood over the past decade have “forced me to look at everything as though it could be I.P.” Sometimes, the results of that general approach to the world—everything can be a story—are delightful. Sometimes, they can be creatively Lego Movie-esque, their imagined worlds allowing for satire and allegory as well as entertainment. Many more times, though, those films read as cynical. They scan less as works of cinema than as weary exercises in forced anthropomorphism: big-screen versions of Clippy. (“It looks like you’re writing the script for a soulless cash grab! Would you like help?”)
And that’s another problem with The Emoji Movie. It takes all the productive linguistic experimentation that is happening every day—every minute—every second—in people’s phones and lives and reduces it down to stock characters who go through the motions of extremely conventional storytelling. Sony won The Emoji Movie in a bidding war against, reportedly, Warner Bros. and Paramount. In that sense, Gene belongs to the studio. But in another sense, Gene does not belong to anyone. Those silly little pictographs belong to us all. The Emoji Movie grafts its own plot onto the tools that real people, people who are not Hollywood studio executives, have been using to write their own stories, to have their own fun, to tell their own truths. No wonder the movie made them, in the end, a little bit 😡.



I read all 512 pages of Angelica Baker’s debut novel greedily, in one dizzying weekend, unable to put it down. Which is fitting, in a way: Our Little Racket follows the sudden downfall of a Lehman Brothers–esque CEO through the eyes of his wife, their teenage daughter, and the other women surrounding them, and as such it’s very much a story of greed and its out-of-control consequences. But the book gets beyond moneymaking hubris to a more basic kind of desire—the fretful, shapeless longing of those who are sidelined to be seen somehow as indispensable.
Binge-watchers of Big Little Lies will enjoy the elegantly cutthroat politics of suburban life in wealthy Greenwich, Connecticut, while fans of Elena Ferrante will like the sharp portrayal of the delicate power balances in women’s friendships. But any reader will appreciate the tightly woven drama of this book, which brings its five protagonists out of the margins of the crisis and into an explosive confrontation of their own.
Book I’m hoping to read: Love in the Time of Cholera by Gabriel García Márquez
—Rosa Inocencio Smith, assistant editor
For Selin, the Turkish-American protagonist and narrator of Elif Batuman’s The Idiot, arriving at Harvard in the fall of 1995 is an occasion of great flourishing. Intellectual and experiential horizons are broadened. New technology, in the form of, yes, email—“a glowing list of messages from all the people you knew, and from people you didn’t know … like the universal handwriting of thought or of the world”—makes apparent the complexities of our ever-evolving epistolary media. But it’s also a time of emotional confusion: Selin falls for a bland, apparently brilliant, Hungarian mathematician named Ivan. Several years her senior, he treats her as an odd curiosity, someone to be intrigued by but never quite taken with.
While Selin’s on-again, off-again pursuit of Ivan gives The Idiot its narrative spine, for me, the novel’s true pleasures are in the rapid maturation of her powers of observation. “Why was ‘plain’ a euphemism for ‘ugly,’ when the very hallmark of human beauty was its plainness, the symmetry and simplicity that always seemed so young and so innocent,” Selin muses. It’s a work of peculiar discovery, a portrait of the artist as a young Turkish-American woman obsessed with language and its powers. And Selin’s infatuation with Ivan, too, offers her a way to work out her nascent theories of love, life, and meaningful expression.
My anxious, sweaty, early college days were full of unrequited longings, both romantic and cerebral—I wanted my opinions about Bergman, Chekhov, and colonialism to be valued and important. The Idiot took me back to that awkward time, full of pain and strangeness, but also of promise and delight.
Book I’m hoping to read: Neuromancer by William Gibson
—Siddhartha Mahanta, associate editor
Fear and Loathing in America is a collection of Hunter S. Thompson’s private and business letters between 1968 and 1976. There are other earlier and later collections, but in these years he’s in his prime. “The Battle of Aspen” (Rolling Stone, 1970) is one of my favorite pieces of his, and here you see how it came together, and how it shaped his understanding of journalism’s role in political power.
Thompson carbon-copied all of his letters and reportedly imagined they’d be published one day, which slightly ruins the idea that you’re looking inside his head when reading them. His letters have the same energy and humor of his columns. But to whatever degree his persona involved conscious performance, it’s one he kept up for thousands of pages of private correspondence. I come out believing the reason his work resonated with so many people was because it was authentic. It’s possible the crisis of faith in journalism today would be helped if there were more writers as relatable, unpretentious, and candid as he was.
There are, of course, parallels between his feelings about Richard Nixon then and many people’s feelings about Donald Trump today. It can be cathartic to wade through HST’s despair for democracy and the American idea, and to realize that it was not less intense than many people’s today, and to see how he coped and didn't, and to remember that he and the country made it through.
Book I’m hoping to read: Things That Happened Before the Earthquake by Chiara Barzini
—James Hamblin, senior editor
This hefty graphic novel by the Korean cartoonist Yeon-Sik Hong is one of the simplest stories I’ve read this year. It has no real suspense or plot, no grand reveal. Based on Hong’s own experience moving with his wife Sohmi from Seoul to the countryside, Uncomfortably Happily is a candid, engrossing tale of two comic artists looking for comfort in solitude and minimalist living, even as the twin shadows of poverty and stress loom.
While they are thrilled to leave the smog and noisy crowds behind, the couple relocate largely out of financial necessity; on page after page, the irritable Hong agonizes over his meager paychecks and unfulfilled creative dreams. Uncomfortably Happily, which is plainly but engagingly drawn, spends as much time, though, on the daily indignities and triumphs of living in the mountains. Divided into seasons, the book reflects the duo's newfound connection to the patterns and whims of nature: In the winter, the couple experiment with burning coal to save money. In the spring, they begin the tricky work of loosening the soil and planting sesame, lettuce, and mugwort. They fret over trespassers, chores, and commuting to the city. They adopt a dog, buy some chickens, and clean up the mess when the dog kills the chickens. Sometimes, they treat themselves to grilled meat for dinner or go for a swim.
I appreciated the book’s contemplative, and realist, mode, and its unromantic look at oft-romanticized lifestyles: that of the country-dweller and that of the artist. Beyond that, I just found it therapeutic to follow the quietly charming Hong and Sohmi week to week, not doing much more than making do.
Book I’m hoping to read: Nochita by Dia Felix
—Lenika Cruz, associate editor
At 549 pages, Nobody’s Fool is not a short novel, but it could be easy to dismiss as slight. The setting is unremarkable, and the action, such as it is, unfolds slowly. But Richard Russo, who would go on to win a Pulitzer Prize for his 2001 book Empire Falls, creates compelling characters and writes with such humanity and humor that the book is pure delight. The story is built around Sully, a down-on-his-luck everyman who lives in a blue-collar town in upstate New York; his son Peter, a college professor whose career and marriage are failing; his aging landlady Miss Beryl; his dim-witted best friend Rub Squeers; his anxious ex-wife Vera; and a menagerie of other townspeople who bring a boisterous joy to the happenings. Russo’s mastery of dialogue, gift for observation, and penchant for amusing cul-de-sacs more than compensate for any lack of pyrotechnics in the plot.
Book I’m hoping to read: Hue 1968: A Turning Point of the American War in Vietnam by Mark Bowden
—Bob Cohn, president
Now is a time to be reading about Israel. Every day, it seems, some new controversy brings the little Middle Eastern country back into the American discourse; while U.S. politics are going through a period of chaotic scramble, the politics of U.S.-Israel-Palestine appear to be on the same steady path toward crisis. Ari Shavit’s book is not a political argument, exactly: It is about the history, and fraughtness, and hope of the land of Israel, and all the ugliness, ambition, joy, and sadness with which the country came to be. He tells the story of Israel's founding and evolution through original interviews and personal narrative, inviting readers along on a journey of historical reckoning that is profoundly ambivalent in its conclusions. That the author himself has become a troubled figure in recent months only adds to the long list of questions I'm wrestling with as I approach the end of the book.
Book I’m hoping to read: Far From the Tree by Andrew Solomon
—Emma Green, staff writer
I spent a night in a seaside tent shortly after finishing Annihilation, and it transformed the familiar-to-campers morning symphony of bird songs, buzzing insects, and crashing waves into something new and not altogether comforting. In this hypnotic and deadpan hybrid of sci-fi, science non-fiction, psychological thriller, and horror, Jeff VanderMeer imagines a group of scientists venturing into a stretch of the American coastline that’s been taken over by a mysterious something rebuffing the influence of humankind. Our narrator, referred to only as “the biologist,” describes a vibrant wilderness that defies her understanding not only of science but also of her own perception. To say much more about her expedition’s mind-bending findings would spoil the book, the first of a trilogy. But trust me: Once you begin Annihilation, you’ll see the flora and fauna around you with more clarity—which is to say, with proper awe at its unknowability.  
Book I’m hoping to read: A Separation by Katie Kitamura
—Spencer Kornhaber, staff writer
There’s a thin line between trashy summer reads and meaty, good summer reads. How many times can you flop on the beach with a thriller like The Girl on the Train and not feel like you are bingeing on candy and your brain is turning into a big cavity? I'm always on the lookout for a page-turner that isn’t too indulgent, and Jennifer Haigh’s Heat and Light fits the bill. It has a weighty topic—fracking in Pennsylvania—but deftly tackles the human dimensions of the subject and creates tension that keeps the reader occupied. Through the eyes of a farmer, a prison guard, an activist, a housewife, and a man employed by the drilling industry, the book looks at how a small town reacts to fracking among its farms. This would be easy to do in black and white—fracking bad, environmentalists good—but Haigh brings texture to her characters, making the reader really consider the pros and cons of outside business coming into small, dying towns. In short, you can take Haigh's book to the beach and leave the guilt behind; it’s well written, and will definitely make you think.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Sympathizer by Viet Thanh Nguyen
—Alana Semuels, staff writer
There are certain books that occupy such a place in my consciousness that a simple glimpse of its spine fills me with joy and transports me to where I was when I first read it. The Shadow Lines is such a book. I picked it up recently after nearly two decades to see whether it held up; as before, I was quickly engrossed. The novel is funny, sad, wistful, and ultimately tragic: An unnamed narrator describes his hero worship of one cousin, his unrequited love for another, and the friendship between two families, one English and the other Indian, forged during the war. Amitav Ghosh’s writing luxuriates in what seem like the certainties of the past, but contain memories that are misremembered, half-remembered, and deliberately concealed—the shadow lines of the title. The book can be difficult to follow: It moves back and forth in time, between places, among multiple story arcs, often on the same page. But it’s precisely those qualities, and Ghosh’s incisive observations along the way, that make reading it an arresting experience, as I once again discovered.  
Book I’m hoping to read: July 1914: Countdown to War by Sean McMeekin
—Krishnadev Calamur, senior editor
Bianca Bosker was the executive technology editor at The Huffington Post when she abruptly quit her job and took a $10-an-hour gig as a “cellar rat,” hauling cases of wine for a Manhattan restaurant. Her endgame: to immerse herself in the world of “cork dorks,” master sommeliers and obsessives who devote their lives to studying, sampling, and selling wine. Cork Dork is an account of Bosker’s journey from a casual wine drinker to the sommelier at Terroir Tribeca. But it’s also an enlightening and wacky introduction to the wine industry itself, with its manifold highs (1989 Chateau d’Yquem) and lows (highly processed wines like Yellow Tail and Sledgehammer that contain additives like powdered egg whites or bentonite clay).
Bosker’s mission seems journalistic, at first—she wants to ascertain what actually makes a super-nosed oenophile, and whether such rarefied powers of perception are within the grasp of the average Cabernet drinker. This involves an alarming number of days where she’s hungover by 2 p.m. after attending tastings to bolster her limited education. But she ends up thoroughly absorbed in the weird world she documents, even as she maintains an outsider’s ability to skewer its more ridiculous elements. Cork Dork is, somehow, both an entry-level guide to the ever-growing business of wine and a masterclass in the strange, immensely skilled fanatics who make it their life’s work.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Ministry of Utmost Happiness by Arundhati Roy
—Sophie Gilbert, staff writer
Years ago, an editor instructed me to read My Traitor’s Heart, Rian Malan’s 1990 reported memoir about Late Apartheid South Africa. I can’t recall what the context for that recommendation was, but I didn’t get around to picking up the book until this summer, when the timing felt fortuitous: What better moment to read about a society tearing itself apart, wracked with police violence against people of color, with a progressive bloc standing by, wringing its hands solemnly but unable or unwilling to formulate an effective response?
But it’s unfair to distill My Traitor’s Heart to, or read it as, merely a parable for the present era in American politics. For someone of my generation, who grew up with the Apartheid regime as a sort of cardboard bogeyman, Malan’s vivid reportage makes the horror of South Africa under P.W. Botha come alive in sickening ways. And Malan, the renegade son of a deeply connected Afrikaner family and a disenchanted former Marxist, is at his best when he is skewering the illusions and pieties of white South Africans who opposed the racist regime. He is especially unsparing in enumerating the faults of one young liberal: himself.
Book I’m hoping to read: Fly Me by Daniel Riley
—David A. Graham, staff writer
As much as I love discovering new books, I find myself coming back to Jeffrey Eugenides’s first novel, The Virgin Suicides, at least once a year. And more often than not, it happens to be during the summer: The June months that bookend the story feel even more poignant when I’m sitting in the same muggy, buzzing weather as the Lisbon sisters and the boys so enthralled by them.
The Virgin Suicides turns what could easily be a dark and depressing tale into an engrossing, lyrical story about youth, innocence, and that ever elusive idea of teenage girlhood. Told from the perspective of a group of middle-aged men looking back on their past, Eugenides’s novel attempts to explore what it is that brought the five Lisbon sisters to kill themselves. The narrators fail to reach a solid conclusion, but learn more about the sisters as people, concluding that “the girls were really women in disguise, that they understood love and even death, and that our job was merely to create the noise that seemed to fascinate them.”
It’s easy to forget the particulars of what it means to be a teenager—“Obviously, Doctor, you’ve never been a 13-year-old girl,” says the youngest Lisbon sister, Cecilia, when chastised for not knowing how tough life can really be—but Eugenides’s writing has a way of making those isolating high-school years feel familiar, relatable, and not all that long ago.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Underground Railroad by Colson Whitehead
—Tori Latham, editorial fellow
In her debut novel, Salt Houses, Hala Alyan pulls readers into the daily ups and downs of displaced people, using themes of memory, inheritance, ongoing loss, and rebuilding. The Palestinian American author was inspired by her own family’s experiences being forced to relocate: As she notes of that past in an interview on NPR’s Morning Edition, “A lot of the times it’s something that's really not brought up, which then leaves it to the later generations to reimagine, reconceptualize, kind of recreate what it was that was lost.”
Alyan—who has published three books of poetry—moves the reader lyrically through multiple storylines, continents, and political contexts to depict how families carry their history, through major turning points as well as the everyday. Starting in Nablus, Palestine, in 1963, Salt Houses paints a detailed and emotional portrait of the struggles and triumphs of creating home and reconciling that which no longer exists. It poses difficult and personal questions about what displaced people can give to their children, what they want to be remembered and what—consciously or unconsciously—slips through the cracks.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Sobbing School by Joshua Bennett
—Taylor Hosking, editorial fellow
If there’s one thing watching a lot of HGTV has taught me—and there is, now that I think about it, pretty much only one thing that watching a lot of HGTV has taught me—it’s that the kitchen is the most important room in the home. Bedrooms are great, Joanna and Chip will enthuse; bathrooms are necessary, Property Brother One and Property Brother Two will concede; living rooms (pardon, Family Spaces that have been laid out, ideally, according to a whimsical Open Concept) are definitely, Tarek and Christina will tell you, a crucial component of the whole deal. But the kitchen: That’s the non-negotiable. It’s the place where everyone, finally, comes together—the warm and beating heart of the home, whatever kind of home it may be.
HGTV’s kitchen-centricism is a (sort of) new idea—remember when fancy dining rooms were the thing to aspire to?—that is also an extremely old one. Food, after all, has been for millennia a driver of community. Consuming it and preparing it, in particular, have long encouraged cooperation and, with it, culture. Our DIY relationship with our meals is in fact, Felipe Fernández-Armesto argues in his 2001 book Near a Thousand Tables: A History of Food, part of what makes us human. “Cooking deserves its place as one of the great revolutionary innovations in history,” the Notre Dame history professor writes, "not because of the way it transforms food—there are plenty of other ways of doing that—but because of the way it transformed society.”
Fernández-Armesto makes his case with eloquence and, especially, with wit (“Lego cookery,” he calls the cuisine that calls itself “fusion”; “food-Fordism,” he dubs fast food, as a phenomenon). But Near a Thousand Tables isn’t (merely) another takedown of our current, highly industrialized food system. Fernández-Armesto instead considers food as a constant companion to human history; he examines it in relation to imperialism and to class. He sweeps across cultures and cuisines and eras with polymathic ease. The result, I should note, is definitely not traditional beach reading. But in another way, Near a Thousand Tables is a fitting book for summer, with the season's park picnics and family barbecues and time spent outdoors, among food both actual and potential. Its lessons have made me appreciate, even more fully, the things I cook and consume. Even if those things aren’t served, sadly, on a fashionable breakfast bar.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Mothers by Brit Bennett
—Megan Garber, staff writer
Grace and the Fever is the story of a girl who meets a member of her favorite boy band, Fever Dream, and gets drawn into their world. But there’s a twist—she’s super-active in the online community of fans who believe two of the band’s members are in a hidden gay relationship. (The storyline is seemingly inspired by the real-life conspiracy theory that One Direction’s Harry Styles and Louis Tomlinson are secretly in love.)
A fun, escapist read, Zan Romanoff’s book also evokes that particular feeling of teenage summers—of a compressed period of change, of a self that’s blooming in the heat. It’s a story of how people find themselves through the things they love, but also of the dangers of giving too much weight to the mythologies they create around them. “You can see something very clearly without knowing what it is,” Romanoff writes. “You can know what something is without understanding what it means. Something can be real, and not at all true.”
When Grace discovers the truth about the band she adores, she has to reconcile it with the story she’s been telling herself. She also has to reconcile the many different stories she’s been telling about who she is—to her friends, to the band, to her online compatriots. Romanoff’s sensitive and thoughtful portrayal of fandom gives it a literary weight equal to the importance it has in fans' lives.
Book I’m hoping to read: Marlena by Julie Buntin
—Julie Beck, senior associate editor
Maurice Sendak’s illustrations are so fantastic that it’s easy to overlook the brilliance of his design choices. Such decisions are quite meaningful, in fact. A story is subtly shaped by a book’s physical contours; there are layered meanings in the interplay between text and art; there’s utility built into the very act of turning the page—a gap in time and space that must be closed by the reader.
“My heartbeat actually changed with the excitement of discovering the picture-book medium with all its complexities,” the art historian Jane Doonan tells Jonathan Cott in his new book, There’s a Mystery There. Cott’s ode to Sendak is an engrossing extension of the 1976 Rolling Stone cover story he wrote about the illustrator, who died in 2012. To make sense of Sendak’s legacy, Cott revisits their conversations from that time and also turns to a panel of scholars, including Doonan.
What emerges is a clearer picture of Sendak the man, and also a riveting excavation of his approach to art. Sendak often described his work as an exploration of how children understand their own feelings of fear, anger, frustration, and boredom. But Cott sees more nuance than that, comparing the emotional resonance of Sendak’s work to a sense of “being outside and inside … at the same time.” This is why it makes sense in Sendak’s universe for a whale to spout chicken soup with rice, and for a glass milk bottle to be a skyscraper, and for a child’s bedroom to be suddenly canopied by trees. In childhood, the smallest and most ordinary spaces are infinite. And when the potential for adventure is everywhere, the distance between a precarious journey and a reassuring homecoming collapses.
Reading Cott’s book, I was struck by the wish to have known Sendak as a boy. Through his beloved canon, I realized, we already do.
Book I’m hoping to read: Gender and Jim Crow: Women and the Politics of White Supremacy in North Carolina, 1896-1920 by Glenda Gilmore
—Adrienne LaFrance, editor
Lidia Yuknavitch’s latest novel, a futuristic reimagination of the story of Joan of Arc, opens on a gruesomely detailed scene of burning flesh. In The Book of Joan, skin serves as canvas, screen, and page: Grafting artists are the Dickenses of their era, etching epic sagas and love tales onto their hairless clients’ scalps, necks, and thighs. The narrator, Christine, is one such artist, and she is methodically burning onto her own body a text, the titular “book”: the biography of a young environmental activist named Joan who has become a symbol of resistance as the world’s wealthy elites have their way with an ecologically devastated Earth. The “book” is a way for Christine to document the truth about Joan amid widespread propaganda that would cast her as a terrorist. It is also, as it were, a weapon of protest in a world taken over by sly, false narratives—ones that can move mass opinion, to toxic, even apocalyptic effect.
If this plotline sounds a bit self-serious, Yuknavitch smartly cuts it with mordant humor. She gives Christine, her wry narrator, the nickname “Christ.” She makes Joan crotchety, powerful but not particularly charismatic, and the horrid, dictatorial Jean de Men—a dangerously effective raconteur determined to squelch Joan—essentially, a popular romance novelist. Throughout, Yuknavitch is interested in examining what happens when language is torqued away from average people, and what results when they try to torque it back in their direction. With The Book of Joan, she proffers a thought-provoking meditation on the influence of story—on how it can manipulate and inspire, and how it can be used to resist.
Book I’m hoping to read: Notes of a Crocodile by Qiu Miaojin
—Jane Yong Kim, senior editor
Canada by Richard Ford
What if your parents were bank robbers? That's essentially the premise of this 2012 novel by Richard Ford, the writer best known for his four Frank Bascombe books, including the Pulitzer-winning Independence Day. While those works more broadly explored the anxieties and pieties of late-20th-century America, in Canada, Ford examines a different set of questions—about criminality, marriage, and the lessons a child learns from his parents—with impressive range.
Where the Bascombe books star a middle-aged, middle-class Southern transplant to the Northeast, Canada is the story of a working-class family in mid-century Montana told from the perspective of an orphaned teenager, Dell Parsons, who is sent north of the border after his parents are arrested. How do you cope with a rupture that sudden? How do you start over? What lessons do you learn from your parents, and what do you discard? In the narrator Parsons, Ford has created a new voice, one that’s entirely distinct from the now-familiar Bascombe. He's more wistful than wry, but no less engaging. And though Canada is tighter in scope than Ford's earlier works, it moves quickly and grabs you from the start.
Book I’m hoping to read: Anything Is Possible by Elizabeth Strout
—Russell Berman, senior associate editor
Published earlier this year, The Draw, a memoir by the cultural critic Lee Siegel, is deeply unsettling. The first 20 pages reveals the heart of the trauma: Siegel’s father, unable to repay advances on his salary, has gone bankrupt, while his mother devolves into a screaming, slapping hurricane of disappointment. From then on, Siegel spends his adolescence shrinking from his mother’s increasingly erratic power trips and struggling to accept his father’s shrinking sense of self. With uncomfortable composure and clarity, Siegel dissects his parents—labeling faults, diagnosing neuroses—and himself.
This book upset me, but I couldn’t put it down. Siegel’s clinical judgements and fluid transitions, combined with his almost humdrum childhood experiences, make The Draw an engrossing read.
Book I’m hoping to read: Presence in the Modern World by Jacques Ellul
—Katie Martin, designer
I'm a lifelong sci-fi fan, and as any lifelong sci-fi fan can tell you, the repetition of themes and tropes sometimes cripples the genre. So when I was introduced to Liu Cixin's The Three-Body Problem, the space-opera trilogy to which it belonged, and Chinese science fiction in general, it was like a window opened onto a new universe. Just the act of seeing fictional futures through an international lens added depth to my understanding of the genre. And it didn't hurt that the work was thrilling and fresh.
In between his own award-winning sci-fi and fantasy work, Ken Liu has been the chief promoter of the Chinese-American science fiction cultural exchange, so it's no wonder that he translated and edited Invisible Planets, a speculative fiction collection from new and classic Chinese authors. Included are a short story from Liu Cixin and a trippy time-bending Hugo-award-winning novella “Folding Beijing” from Hao Jingfang. Also of interest are the collection’s essays on Chinese sci-fi identity and the prominent role the genre has played in developing cultural identity.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Stone Sky by N.K. Jemisin
—Vann R. Newkirk II, staff writer
Moonglow is not a memoir and, despite what its cover would have you believe, it’s also not quite a novel. It falls somewhere in the nameless space between the two, recounting the story of a writer named Michael Chabon and his maternal grandparents in a way that feels true but that doesn’t always adhere to the facts.
The book centers on stories Chabon’s grandfather tells while lying on his deathbed, high on painkillers: stories about his childhood, his military service during World War II, his NASA career, his time in jail, his marriage. To the narration of these remembered episodes, Chabon brings the same vivid descriptive voice and engaging character development I loved in his earlier novels, crafting moving portraits of his grandparents as they grapple with the damage left by the war and navigate the fluctuations of their lives together. But Chabon abandons the more straightforward plot progressions he laid out in those books, instead jumping around in space and time and veering off on tangents in the distracted, non-linear style of real memory.
The resulting work is something new from Chabon, something beautiful, compelling, and sincere in the way of the very best family stories—and the best books.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Association of Small Bombs by Karan Mahajan
—Annika Neklason, editorial fellow
Thomas Friedman’s latest book has a simple thesis: that the characterizing feature of the 21st century is the convergence of the planet’s three largest forces (technology, globalization, and climate change), and that these accelerations are transforming the workplace, politics, geopolitics, ethics, and community. Friedman convincingly builds one big case for “being late”—for, essentially, pausing to reflect on and take stock of our current period of history. His methodical, explanatory approach, similar to the one he uses in his New York Times columns, will appeal to those who have a tendency to get caught up in the daily news cycle and don't take a moment to see broader patterns emerge.
Book I’m hoping to read: Option B: Facing Adversity, Building Resilience, and Finding Joy by Sheryl Sandberg
—Annabelle Timsit, editorial fellow
At one point in her powerful memoir, the New Yorker writer Ariel Levy observes that she had “managed to solve the Jane Austen problems that women have been confronting for centuries … in an entirely unconventional way.” And for a blip, that’s true. But then comes a crueler set of rules: those of nature, including fertility. Levy explores her friends’ battles with conception—before losing her own child. The book tracks her overwhelming grief and her efforts to accept it. (In one poignant passage, she writes of finding companionship from her cats, who are “no more baffled by agony than they were by dishwashing.”)
If you’re looking for sugared-up platitudes about life and its meaning, maybe pass on this one. It left me with a sadness hangover. But Levy’s memoir offers comfort for the realist: "Death comes for us,” she reminds the reader. “You may get 10 minutes on this earth or you may get 80 years but nobody gets out alive.” That rule very much still applies.
Book I’m hoping to read: Exit West by Mohsin Hamid
—Caroline Mimbs Nyce, assistant editor
When I read it earlier this year, I fell hard for Elif Batuman's debut novel, The Idiot. So I was excited, this summer, to delve into her earlier book, The Possessed: Adventures With Russian Books and the People Who Read Them. The nonfiction collection’s unusual subtitle gives some indication of its genre-defying contents: Published in 2010, it’s a first-person account of Batuman’s years as a graduate student in Russian literature that manages to be laugh-out-loud funny.
In The Possessed, as in The Idiot, Batuman punctuates the mundane with singular, sometimes self-deprecating, wit. “Air travel,” she writes, “is like death: Everything is taken from you.” Her ear for the absurd is matched by her ability to distill it into unflinchingly honest, delightfully readable prose replete with memorable characters. In Batuman’s capable hands, obsessive grad students appear as worthy of study as their dissertation subjects. Describing a private tour of the Hermitage Museum’s 18th-century wing, she contrasts her experience with that of a friend who, unlike Batuman, specializes in the period: “I soon felt the full weight of historical boredom on my soul. When I left the museum, she was gazing with a kind of rapt criticalness at the upholstery of an armchair embroidered in 1790 by pupils from the Smolny School for Aristocratic Young Ladies.” Happily, this book, as much about the accident-strewn path to adulthood as about history, is never boring.
Book I’m hoping to read: Fear City by Kim Phillips-Fein
—Amy Weiss-Meyer, associate editor
Exit West by Mohsin Hamid
Mohsin Hamid’s novel Exit West is many things: It’s a window into the daily lives, mundane and beautiful and horrifying, of Nadia and Saeed, two students living through their unnamed country’s civil war. The bombs, death, tragedy, and fear intersperse with work and a budding romance. It’s also a story of magical escape, which starts when Nadia and Saeed utilize mystical doors that instantly transport them away from one danger and often into another—first Greece, then the United Kingdom, and eventually the United States. Finally, it reflects on what it takes to make a new place home, and whether that is even possible.
While Hamid’s plot takes the reader along a geographic journey, it’s his protagonists’ emotional and psychological arcs that provide the story’s real narrative. Hamid weaves in acknowledgements of the physical and external hardships and dangers associated with refugee life, but his complicated portrayal of how two people, bound by extreme circumstance, must try to reinvent themselves in new places prove to be the most illuminating part of Exit West.
Through their meeting and subsequent flight, Hamid uses Nadia and Saeed to explore questions of religion, love, family, gender, and migration. It’s a tall task that the book delivers on gracefully and thoughtfully.  
Book I’m hoping to read: The Color of L​aw: A Forgotten History of How Our Government Segregated America by Richard Rothstein
—Gillian B. White, senior associate editor


Almost 10 years ago, Martyn Waites, a British crime writer, was having coffee with his editor. Waites, who was at something of a loose end project-wise, was looking for new ideas. His editor, though, was looking for a woman. Or, more specifically, a high-concept female thriller writer who could be the U.K.’s Karin Slaughter or Tess Gerritsen.
“I said I could do it,” Waites recalls. His editor was skeptical. But then Waites outlined an idea for a book based on a news story he’d once read, about a serial killer targeting pregnant women and cutting out their fetuses. The concept, he admits somewhat bashfully, was a gruesome one.
“That’s exactly what we’re looking for,” was his editor’s response.
That idea became The Surrogate, a crime thriller published in 2009, and Waites simultaneously became Tania Carver, his female alter ego. Before he started writing, he embarked on a period of research, reading novels by popular female crime writers, and made “copious notes” about their various heroes and villains. Waites was an actor before he was a writer, and “Martyn” and “Tania” soon became different personas in his head, almost like characters. He’d sit down to write as Tania and then realize the concept was much better suited to Martyn. Martyn books, he explains, “were more complex, more metaphorical. The kind of things I like in writing.” Tania books were simpler: mainstream commercial thrillers aimed at a female audience. And they rapidly became more successful than any of Waites’s previous books had been.
Women Are Writing the Best Crime Novels
The case of a male author using a female pseudonym to write fiction was relatively unheard of when Tania Carver emerged, but the explosion of female-oriented crime fiction in the last five years has led to an increasing number of male authors adopting gender-neutral names to publish their work. Last month, The Wall Street Journal’s Ellen Gamerman considered the phenomenon, interviewing a number of writers who fessed up to being men: Riley Sager (Todd Ritter), A.J. Finn (Daniel Mallory), S.J. Watson (Steve Watson), J.P. Delaney (Tony Strong), S.K. Tremayne (Sean Thomas). The trend is ironic, Gamerman pointed out, because the history of fiction is littered with women writers adopting male or gender-neutral pseudonyms to get their work published, from the Brontë sisters to J.K. Rowling.
This shift in fortunes can be attributed to a handful of factors. While exact numbers are hard to source, women readers have come to dominate fiction, where they’re widely touted as representing as much as 80 percent of the market. And while crime fiction and psychological thrillers are often associated with male readers, women read most of those, too—between 60 and 80 percent. Dr. Melanie Ramdarshan Bold, a lecturer in publishing and book culture at University College London, told me that women also prefer to read books by women, citing a Goodreads survey that found 80 percent of a new female author’s readership is likely to be female.
The last few years, in other words, have seen a significant reorientation of the crime-fiction landscape, to the point where male writers might consider themselves at a disadvantage. The news that some are choosing to disguise their gender was met with triumph by some commentators, who interpreted it as proof that the literary tables had turned. It prompted eyerolling by others, who noted the irony of men trying to enter a genre of stories about “dead or missing women” that women authors and readers had only recently reclaimed as their own.
But the success of writers like Gillian Flynn and Paula Hawkins and Karin Slaughter isn’t just due to the fact that they’re women. Rather, it’s that the books they write often interpret the world through an unmistakably female lens. Waites quotes an adage that the difference between crime writers is that a male writer will note what a crime looks like, whereas a female writer will explore what it feels like. Finding success in contemporary crime fiction, then, isn’t just about adopting a gender-neutral name. It’s about writers comprehending why women are so compelled by stories about brutal, graphic violence in the first place.
* * *
One of the earliest examples of a crime story was told by a woman, Scheherazade, who staves off her execution in The Arabian Nights with “The Three Apples.” In the tale, a fisherman finds a locked box that contains the dismembered body of a young woman, and a vizier is tasked with finding the murderer. The roots of the first female detective novels, the scholar Adrienne E. Gavin has written, are in Gothic novels like Ann Radcliffe’s 1794 work The Mysteries of Udolpho, where women are “victims of crime and held captive, but also escape through proto-detective methods to triumph in the end.”
The most influential female crime writers, though, emerged in the Golden Age of Detective Fiction in the 1920s and ’30s, when Agatha Christie, Dorothy L. Sayers, Margery Allingham, Josephine Tey, Ngaio Marsh, and others perfected the art of the whodunnit. Their heroes were frequently male, like the detectives Hercule Poirot, Albert Campion, and Lord Peter Wimsey, and when novels were centered around female protagonists those women tended to be atypical investigators. The rise of hardboiled detective fiction by authors such as Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler, Gavin argues, made the female sleuth “a less threatening figure: elderly, amateur, and detective by accident rather than design.”
But women readers were no less intrigued. In Christie’s work in particular they found an attention to detail and a deft understanding of the nuances of society in early 20th-century England, in addition to meticulous plotting. (Christie reportedly considered publishing her first novel under a male pseudonym, but couldn’t decide between Martin West or Mostyn Grey and so elected to use her own name instead.) Then, in the 1940s and ’50s, as male crime writers created prototypically masculine characters in the wake of two world wars, women writers like Dorothy B. Hughes and Vera Caspary wrote fiction more rooted in psychological suspense, with more complex female characters.
Sarah Weinman, the editor of the anthology Women Crime Writers, says one factor that defines these books is “a tremendous lack of sentimentality.” At that time, she explains, “the men writing were the romantics. The women just told it like it was. They saw it, they relayed it, and they didn’t sugarcoat it.” That pragmatism can be felt today in some of the most successful works of crime fiction. Writing in The Atlantic last year about women crime novelists, Terrence Rafferty noted that this new breed of writers “don’t much believe in heroes, which makes their kind of storytelling perhaps a better fit for these cynical times. Their books are light on gunplay, heavy on emotional violence.”
But contemporary female crime writers—particularly Karin Slaughter, best-known for her Will Trent series—don’t necessarily stint on the physical violence either. And paradoxically, that may be another thing that makes them so compelling. Women readers, Weinman notes, have always been drawn to darker stories. “There’s a running trope,” she says, “that the gorier the serial-killer narrative, the more likely that little old ladies are reading it.” One of the biggest surprises for Waites when he adopted the persona of Tania Carver was learning how much women readers enjoyed, even craved, brutality in stories. At one event, a woman asked him if his books were particularly violent, adding, before he could respond, “Because I’ll read them if they are.” Slaughter, who’s sold more than 35 million copies of her crime novels, is so regularly asked why her books include such graphic depictions of violence that there’s a section about it on her website.
More recently, women writers have been exploring abusive acts within a more intimate environment—the home. In the last five years, the stratospheric success of books like Gillian Flynn’s Gone Girl (reportedly the 25th bestselling book in history) and Paula Hawkins’s The Girl on the Train has sparked a new subset of crime fiction that the author Julia Crouch has named “domestic noir.” Books in this genre, Dr. Ramdarshan Bold says, “tend to focus on the female experience, in domestic settings.” They feature female protagonists, and often explore—in addition to criminality—the nuances of relationships and marriage, areas that Bold says have been “largely missing from popular crime novels in the past.”
The notable success of such books in the market has inspired a fleet of imitators, and has led some to question the propriety of men attempting to break into the genre under the guise of gender-neutral pseudonyms. “They’re not lying, exactly,” Jezebel’s Kelly Faircloth wrote. “It’s just that if you’re idly browsing in Barnes and Noble, looking for a Gone Girl-style read, you won’t encounter any immediate tells. One of the authors featured has gone so far as to try on a bra so he didn’t make any obvious mistakes that might throw female readers out of the story. Wonder if he also gets the infuriating emails or the creepy DMs or the generally patronizing bullshit?”
* * *
The practice of using pseudonyms in popular fiction is a common one. Authors, Weinman explains, will often change their pen name if works published under their previous name haven’t sold particularly well. She points to Todd Ritter, who published an antebellum mystery under the name Alan Finn before rebooting once again as the ambiguously gendered Riley Sager. “My name had become somewhat of a liability,” Ritter explained in a blog post introducing Finn. “And, since we were looking for a new publisher, one could argue that editors would be willing to go with someone who had a clean slate, rather than a critically acclaimed author with a spotty sales record.”
Final Girls, Riley Sager’s first novel, is a hit, having been praised by Stephen King as “the first great thriller of 2017,” and touted by Whoopi Goldberg on The View. The book is about the lone survivor of a horrific “movie-scale massacre” who’s attempting to move on from her traumatic past when she discovers more women are being found dead. “We were, for whatever reason, the lucky ones who survived when no one else had,” the protagonist, Quincy, explains. “Pretty girls covered in blood.” The book is self-aware about its use of a horror-movie trope that regularly inflicts violence and torture on women. But Ritter’s adoption of a female persona to publish the book raises complex questions about who should tell stories about brutalized female bodies. Is it somehow less gratuitous when women are writing these novels? Or, given that so many women readers are enjoying them regardless, is it just a harmless ploy to reach a bigger audience?
Queries about what’s appropriate and not have long plagued this corner of the industry. Ten years ago, the book world erupted in a debate over whether women authors were too violent in their treatment of their female victims. When the Scottish author Val McDermid was criticized by the crime writer Ian Rankin for her graphic depictions of violence, McDermid struck back. “There is still a funny notion that women should not write violent fiction, and yet women more often than not are the victims of sexual violence,” she told The Guardian. “So what are we saying—that the ones most likely to experience it should not write about it?”
The question of why women enjoy reading about violence inflicted on women is a complex one. Hawkins, in previous interviews, has pointed out that women are simply looking for stories that align with their own experiences of the world. “Men tend to be attacked by strangers, women tend to be attacked by people they know.” Most women, she added, “are made to think about themselves in terms of what they should be doing to prevent violence happening to them.” Part of the explosion of domestic noir and other female-driven books is surely that they interpret violence from a female perspective, giving voice and thoughts to victims who’ve been more typically portrayed in crime fiction as bodies on a cold slab.
But the enjoyment of crime fiction also aligns with a desire to see justice served. Law & Order: SVU, a show that regularly portrays brutal sexual and physical violence against women, is also hugely popular among female viewers. On the one hand, it takes the abuse of women seriously. But on the other, it creates a neat framework where cases are solved and perpetrators are punished. The same applies to to books. Crime fiction, Weinman says, offers order: “Reading about a serial killer who gets caught, or a missing child who’s found, or a woman who’s brutally murdered and the case is solved, there’s an ending, and some catharsis. Narrative provides a trajectory where real life can’t.”
There’s arguably an implicit trust when women read thrillers written by women—a mutual understanding that each is taking the subject personally, and bringing their own experiences to the stories at hand. “Women authors,” Slaughter explains on her site, bring “a different perspective” to stories about abuse and sexual assault. That’s not to say male writers can’t empathize or can’t channel the same kind of emotional intelligence the best female writers bring to crime fiction. Waites says he’s particularly proud of one of his Tania Carver books that deals with the topic of domestic violence. But he also acknowledges that he reads crime fiction by female authors and is aware that many of them write scenes he would feel uncomfortable trying to get away with.
Ultimately, Weinman says, the trend for female-oriented psychological thrillers may have crested, and writers and publishers will soon be jumping on to the next bandwagon. But the long history of crime fiction, and its relatively recent foray onto mainstream readers’ bookshelves, proves that women have always been compelled by stories about murder, which may, however strangely, make them feel safe. At least part of the recent popularity of thrillers by female authors has to do with understanding that writers are bringing their own lived experiences of the world to their work, and those experiences align with their readers’. For male writers, replicating their success is a lot more complicated than simply adopting a pseudonym.



The actor Tony Booth, who starred in the 1960s TV sitcom Till Death Us Do Part, has died aged 85.
Booth played the “Scouse git” son-in-law of the foul-mouthed Alf Garnett (Warren Mitchell) in the popular comedy, before becoming better known in later life for being the father of Cherie Blair.
A committed Labour supporter, having joined the party when he was 15, Booth did not let family ties get in the way of him criticising Tony Blair’s government, his interventions often proving embarrassing for the prime minister and his wife.
The actor married four times and had eight daughters. He was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s in 2004 and had experienced heart problems.
A statement released on behalf of his wife, Steph Booth, said: “It is with sadness we announce the death of Antony Booth, actor and political campaigner. Tony passed away late last night with close family members in attendance. The family ask for their privacy to be respected at this time.”
Booth was born in Liverpool in 1931. He discovered a talent for acting and, during his national service, entertained his fellow conscripts in amateur productions.
Cherie Booth was born in Bury, Lancashire, in 1954, during Tony’s marriage to Gale Booth. By the time she was five, her father had left.
He was an early authentic working-class voice on television and his portrayal in Till Death Us Do Part of the long-haired Liverpudlian Mike, always at odds with his bigoted father-in-law, reflected his own political beliefs.
These beliefs saw him become a thorn in the side to his real-life son-in-law when Blair’s New Labour government swept into No 10 in 1997.
He railed against “androids” at Labour’s Millbank HQ and accused the prime minister of stuffing the House of Lords with “Tony’s Cronies”.
His daughter was not exempt from criticism, as when he attacked the couple’s decision to send their eldest son to the selective, grant-maintained London Oratory school.
During the firefighters’ strike in 2002, he said the government had “ruthlessly” squashed their pay demands. He also accused it of being “prepared to throw away billions” on the Iraq war, rather than spending the money on pensioners.
His son-in-law made light of the criticism, with Blair once saying: “I don’t think it would be the very first time I had a little bit of grief from Tony along the way.”
At the Labour party conference in 2002, Blair said he was once given a V-sign by an elderly man with grey hair who was “respectable enough” to have been his father-in-law.
Turning to his wife, the prime minister added: “I should have given him one in return, shouldn’t I?”
Despite political differences, Booth remained close to his daughter and was with her and her husband at his constituency election count in the 2005 general election.
As well as Till Death Us Do Part, Booth had a host of film and TV roles during the 1960s, including playing Malcolm Wilkinson in Coronation Street.
His third marriage was to actress Pat Phoenix, who played Elsie Tanner in Coronation Street and died from cancer a week after their wedding in 1986. She was said to have become the love of his life after he met her as a young man. He went out with her again in his 50s and nursed her through her illness. He married his fourth wife, Stephanie Buckley, in 1998.
Booth enjoyed a revival in his television career in the 1990s, with roles in Holby City, The Bill and Mersey Beat.


!!!@@@$$$

It’s easy to forget, in 2017, how atomised the early grime scene was. There was no social media, no YouTube, no interest from the established music industry, no technology to broadcast the music to the UK or the world beyond. Grime was hyperlocal.
As Kano has put it, MCs and DJs could quickly become “local-famous”, but their bars and identities would resonate only as far as their pirate radio aerials could transmit – usually a few miles at most – before their voices were submerged in static and sank beneath the waves. Tinchy Stryder has told me about being the talk of his secondary school the day after he appeared on Deja Vu FM; Wiley would get mobbed walking down Roman Road in Bow. But beyond that narrow radius, it was hard to make an impact.
But as UK garage waned and the next generation developed the colder, darker sound that would become grime, a low-budget, DIY infrastructure began to sprout up, and artists slowly started making connections beyond their postcode. There were big, scene-uniting raves such as Sidewinder; homemade, magazine-style DVDs such as Risky Roadz; the punk-like magazine RWD, cobbled together in the back room of a record shop in Crystal Palace; and the cable TV station Channel U, which broadcast the first music videos by these usually-unsigned MCs and crews.
While beefs and diss tracks – between crews, between areas of London – were common, the symbol of a tentatively emerging scene unity came in the form of the “all-star” or “link-up” tunes, where five or more MCs from different crews would come together to each do a verse on a hot new instrumental. These were crucial in starting the process of binding together grime’s first wave, but in 2003-2006, grime was a long way from the united front we see today, when the likes of Wiley, Giggs, Lethal Bizzle, BBK, Stormzy and Krept & Konan all routinely put in guest appearances at each other’s concerts. The all-star track is also perhaps the closest that grime manages to get, in song form, to capturing the frantic, pass-the-mic hype of a live pirate radio or rave set.
Perhaps the greatest all-star track – and for south Londoners, one of the greatest grime tunes of all time – is Southside Allstars, created and curated by UK garage-into-grime duo Nikki S and Nyke, aka Milkymans. These days the duo are both cabbies – a career move foreshadowed by Southside when Nyke, the fulcrum of the track, reels off an A-Z of some of the less glamorous parts on the less glamorous side of the river Thames, interspersed with verses from no fewer than 15 south London MCs. Nikki S and Nyke parked up their cabs in a quiet side street in Shoreditch so we could sit in the back and talk through the history of the all-star tune.
“The thing that made it look mad aggy was the scenes with all the kids,” Nyke recalls of Southside’s video. “Especially Fugi’s ‘G to the I’ lines in the tunnel, which would become famous in folklore. He was local, so he could literally whistle and all the boys from his estate came down from nowhere. While they were setting up the shoot, we had a hundred little yutes in the drive-thru McDonalds in Wandsworth, and every little boy was robbing all the stuff out of there. It was chaos.”
“It weren’t really a club tune,” laughs Nikki. “It was so grimey. It was a statement really.” Of all the guest verses, it is the one by So Solid Crew’s Asher D that best sums up the need for a bit of chest-beating neighbourhood pride – “I just want to stand correct for my block” – because, although the tune was bringing MCs from different parts of south London together, Southside was a response to, and intensified, the south-versus-east London tensions of the early 2000s.
So Solid Crew had dominated the MC-driven side of UK garage so completely, drawing envious glances from their east London rivals, that, according to Nyke, all the east London top dogs, including Geeneus from Rinse FM and Diesel from Deja Vu FM, had a “secret meeting” in which they plotted to build up an alternative power base. “They basically said: ‘We’re going to build a fence up around east London now, start burrowing in, and make our own sound.’” Alias, the respected early grime producer who made the Southside instrumental, deliberately neglected to stamp his Alias audio-logo on the track as he usually would. “He was worried that his tunes would get shut down by Slimzee and Geeneus,” Nyke says. “I remember the east London artists were ringing up our manager, Sponge, because he would be orchestrating raves still in south, and they were like: ‘Is it cool to come south? Is it beef?’”
The guest MCs on Southside had to chip in a couple of hundred pounds each for the right to be on the tune, in order to help pay for the video. “They were about to go on a historic tune,” recounts Nyke. “It’s about to go on Channel U!” This model for all-star MC tunes became a staple of Channel U and the cottage industry in grime DVDs, and a showcase and a symbol of the scene’s growing confidence and ambition. The videos put faces and more recognisable personalities to voices previously heard only on pirate radio or vinyl. In many respects, these were the seeds of grime’s move from an underground sound to the increasingly big-money pop genre it has become today.
A slew of other all-star tracks dominated the airwaves in those formative years. South London crew Essentials produced a track called Headquarters, later renamed State Your Name, which required each MC to present themselves as if in a military line-up: “What’s your name soldier, state your location, who are you repping?” At which point they’re ordered to “drop and give me 16 [bars]”. Jammer’s sensational Destruction VIP did a similar thing with rival east London crews that Southside had done for south. The explosive Pow! (Forward), marshalled by Lethal Bizzle, was so big it got banned from clubs and made a rare foray (for the time) into the Top 10. In a genre overwhelmingly dominated by male MCs and DJs, the Female Allstars’ 2006 track Grab That Mic was a celebration of some great overlooked female MCs such as No Lay and Lioness, a feat repeated with Rock the Mic in 2012.
In 2005, Nikki S and Nyke followed up Southside’s success with another classic, geezer-ish Channel U-era all-star tune, Ska Riddim, with its jaunty ska sample, artillery-fire drums and appearances from Channel U favourites such as Flirta D, Doctor, Bashy and Big Narstie. “On Ska Riddim, you’ll notice that again, it’s all south and west London MCs on there,” says Nyke. “I asked east MCs! We reached out. Like, I put a call into D Double E, but because – there’s no other way to say this – because of who our management were, and the relationship with the So Solid dynasty ... they were all shook [scared] of So Solid.”
More than 10 years on, following grime’s many ups and downs and ascent to pop ubiquity, the all-star tune has sadly fallen into disuse – chiefly, you have to assume, because the likes of Stormzy and Skepta consider themselves too big to consider sharing space on a track with more than one or two other artists. Features and collaborations are carefully chosen, and approaching a track mob-handed has less appeal. It’s a shame, because all-star tracks are grime at its best, as some recent exceptions to the rule show: P Money’s 10 out of 10 and Skepta’s That’s Not Me (All-Star Remix) bang much harder than a lot of their competitors. And this week, another all-star revival heralds the comeback of the two MCs most associated with the format: at the instigation of SBTV’s Jamal Edwards, Nikki S and Nyke have just come out with Ska 2, 12 years after the original.
The tune brings together three generations of MCs – the hosts and Asher D from the late UK garage days; Little Dee, Bossman Birdie, Scrufizzer and Flirta D from grime’s Channel U heyday; and the next generation, in Jammz, Novelist, PK, Kwamz and Yizzy, “the youngers who grew up watching Southside and the first Ska Riddim on TV”. It’s a welcome return to collective lyrical energy, its different styles and flows rubbing up against each other, in an era of solo MC superstars. Maybe it will lead to more – although Nyke has another theory about why these all-star tracks don’t happen so much anymore.
“I’d forgotten about this, but they’re a fucking logistical nightmare, man,” he laughs. “They will put years on you. They take so much time, money and effort to organise – and back then we had a manager who was also putting people under pressure. And Sponge was a big guy: you didn’t fuck around with Sponge.”
!!!@@@$$$

Covers sell books. But in the case of Hillary Clinton’s memoir What Happened, you can’t help thinking that the book’s sales in the UK are despite the jacket treatment, not because of it. Whereas the US jacket oozes the gravitas you expect from the woman who stood up to Donald Trump, the UK jacket has all the power of a shrugged “meh”.
The book is published worldwide by Simon & Schuster, and the company’s US division opted for bold lettering on a white-and-blue background (incorporating the Democrats’ traditional colour). The design screams its serious credentials: this, it tells the reader, is The Book by the woman everyone expected to be a shoo-in for the Oval Office, a woman defined by her service in husband Bill’s and Barack Obama’s administrations.
It is a cover worthy of the memoir that has a place in academic libraries. Weight is given to the title, What Happened. A simple statement, it hangs above Clinton’s name, reflecting the question on the lips of everyone who awoke on 9 November to find Donald Trump was soon to get access to the nuclear codes.
But the UK cover … where do you begin? Any sense that Clinton is laying it on the line, or even offering answers, is washed away by a design so hackneyed it even has a generic politico-at-a-rally headshot, albeit one in which Hillary’s firm-lipped expression is reminiscent of the look your mum gave you the first time you barrelled home drunk. Not only that, but the background colour is as pallid as one of her pant suits, and the title – a question on the lips of everyone in the UK as well as the US – is squirrelled away beneath her name.
When I ask, “What happened?” her publisher responds with a terse refusal to comment. But it raises the question: why did the Americans get it right and the British so wrong when UK book design is supposedly the envy of the world?
One jacket designer, Stuart Bache, says the gulf between British and US design has narrowed in recent years, especially in literary fiction. Traditionally, US design tended towards literal interpretation, driven, Bache believes, by the complexity of the US market: the image that motivates readers in southern California to pick up a copy of a book is likely to be different to what appeals to readers in South Carolina. As a result, US jackets have tended to appeal to the lowest common denominator, and that does not make for good design.
“It’s a complicated [market], so the design becomes simpler and focuses on broader appeal,” Bache says. “However, things have shifted in the last few years,” he adds. “There are a lot more similarities now, particularly in literary novels where the luxury of creating much more elegant, beautiful covers has been afforded to the books.”
The designer and illustrator Neil Gower believes US designers have upped their game because of the explosion in digital books. “I think ebooks and the internet have definitely focused publishers’ attention on making books beautiful, covetable objects again,” he says. Publishers on both sides of the Atlantic realise that to justify the cost of a hardback, a book needs to be more than a container of words. It has to be an object of beauty in its own right, he says.
Aided by advances in print technology, British and US designers are playing with things such as spot-varnishes, embossing, debossing and foils to make books physically arresting, tactile objects. Gower says: “The brief for my own book, As Kingfishers Catch Fire – in collaboration with Alex Preston – was to produce the most beautiful book of 2017, and the attention to detail extended way beyond the cover to the endpapers, the quality of the paper and colour-plates. I feel privileged to be designing books in this era.”
Similar ideas are appearing on both sides of the Atlantic: hand-drawn typography, bold colours and a handcrafted feel to the illustrations. Images are de rigueur. And, says Jason Arthur, a publishing director based in the UK at Penguin Random House, US designers are leaping at the creative opportunities. “I used to think British book design was the best in the world and that the Americans were 20 years behind,” he says. “But that has changed in the last two or three years, especially with fiction from the US that put our designs to shame.”
Arthur knows what he is talking about. His division of Penguin Random House has been responsible for jackets that have left US editions looking dowdy. A case in point was the UK edition of Harper Lee’s late bloomer Go Set a Watchman, which cleverly integrated the title of To Kill a Mockingbird, with a nod to 50s film posters. It veers on the right side of nostalgia. Not so the US cover by Jarrod Taylor. Drab blue with the Caterina typeface – which, despite the retro feel, is less than 20 years old – it is as appealing as a book gathering dust at the back of the school library. It falls on the wrong side of that nostalgia line. One designer, Paul Sahre, told Wired the cover was “a pastiche and a parody”.
One book a US designer got right was George Saunders’ novel Lincoln in the Bardo, says Arthur. The hardback, designed by Barbara M Bachman, features a pastoral cover illustration that Saunders himself praised for its “feeling of mystery”. “It wasn’t just a picture of Lincoln,” he told New York magazine’s Vulture. “I see it as being at dusk, and I thought it picked up the feeling of America in the mid-19th century – half pastoral, half burgeoning industrial.”
Saunders didn’t say what he thought of the UK cover, but one can’t help thinking he would have been disappointed. With its spindle of branches and portrait of Abe Lincoln’s son, it reveals little about the book, but plenty about the present obsession of British designers with William Morris – typified by Sarah Perry’s bestselling The Essex Serpent.
That a jacket should reveal something about the content is often the beef authors have with designs, which explains why many seem more relaxed with their US covers than their UK ones. By telling the story – or at least hinting at it – there is less likelihood the jacket will be interchangeable with everything else in their section of WH Smith.
Mick Herron, whose Jackson Lamb novels were first published by Soho in the US before becoming a word-of-mouth hit here, says the US design clearly positions the books for US readers whose knowledge of British spies might only extend to James Bond. “The two recent ones have a sniper-scope emblem, which doesn’t actually reflect anything in the content, but gets a basic message across,” says the Newcastle-born writer. “I don’t really get consulted at all,” he adds, and is happy to leave it to his publisher. “I don’t have much of an eye for that sort of thing.”
Not everyone is so laid-back about covers, and with good reason. As the novelist Jane Harris explains, gender can make a huge difference to how a book is packaged on both sides of the Atlantic. “If you are a woman writer, they seem to always want to put a woman on the cover,” she says. So determined was she that this should not happen to her latest novel, Sugar Money – about two brothers sent to Grenada to reclaim 42 slaves for their French master – that when she finished the final chapter, she tweeted: “Put a woman on the cover of this, suckers.”
Her publisher, Faber, delivered: in the UK the books has an abstract design of sugar cane in eye-popping black, red and gold. But Harris is not hopeful the design will be taken up in the US. “They seem to be wary of anything that is in any way abstract, or risks being confusing,” she says. “If you are writing about slavery, they will want to put a cliched image on the cover.”
In recent years in the US and UK, the people with most influence over a book jacket have been those who choose stock for supermarkets and chains such as Waterstones and WH Smith. A few years ago, a publisher at one of the “big three” houses (Penguin Random House, Hachette and HarperCollins) told me that they had presented a new book at a meeting with the buyer from a well-known retailer. An order from the chain could propel the book into the Top 10, but there was a problem: they hated the jacket. The publisher returned to her art department and commissioned a second design. Again, the buyer rejected it – the cover was still wrong. In all, the publisher had the jacket redesigned five times, until, as a joke, she took the original cover back to the buyer, who asked: “Why didn’t you bring me this first? I love it.”
The story is telling of publishers’ secret contempt for the retailers they must woo. Whatever creative inspiration designers may have, what matters more to some retailers is that the average punter will know what “type” of book they are getting, hence the number of books with Jack Reacher-style silhouetted men on the cover, or Fifty Shades wannabes with muted pictures of fishnets and ties.
This tendency to avoid originality does backfire. One novelist, who asked not to be named, complains bitterly that a mutilated doll on the cover of her book in the US killed her career there. “It had no direct relevance to the content, and suggested the story is far creepier than in fact it was,” she says. “I was dropped by the publisher because the book didn’t sell. I can’t help feeling the cover did the book no favours and was actually off-putting.”
Her situation is becoming less common, says Jason Arthur, and he believes that a new generation of US designers is producing world-beating work. “There is a younger generation coming through who are more outward-looking in inspiration,” he says. These designers are as inspired by gaming and film as they are books, and their work reflects this broadening of viewpoints.
And, he adds, this improvement means that more US designs are making it into British bookshops. He cites The Readymade Thief by Augustus Rose as one example. “We saw the US cover and liked it, and came up with 20 different jacket designs of our own, but the American jacket was the best, so we decided to go with that.” It’s just a pity that no one thought this about Clinton’s memoir.
!!!@@@$$$

The reviews may have been mixed, but producer-director-writer Matthew Vaughn once again demonstrates his savvy populist instinct. The darkly comic spy adventure opens in the UK with £6.2m, with Wednesday and Thursday previews taking that tally to a five-day £8.53m. This compares with a £3.56m debut for 2015’s Kingsman: The Secret Service, or £4.24m including previews.
Ignoring previews, The Golden Circle has opened bigger than a string of 2017’s aspiring summer blockbusters: Alien: Covenant, Pirates of the Caribbean: Salazar’s Revenge, Wonder Woman, The Mummy, Transformers: The Last Knight and War for the Planet of the Apes. It also opened a whole lot better than the latest from Vaughn’s former film-making partner Guy Ritchie, King Arthur: Legend of the Sword (£2.5m including previews).
Vaughn can now fairly claim to have the second-biggest spy franchise in the marketplace after James Bond – in the UK, at any rate. The last Mission: Impossible movie, Rogue Nation, began here in July 2015 with £5.35m including just over £1m in previews.
Dropping 53% in its third frame, the Stephen King adaptation It added another £2.85m at the weekend, taking the 17-day tally to £26.5m. That’s the highest ever gross for a horror film in the UK, unless you – perversely – count the supernatural Twilight franchise. It is the 11th-biggest hit of 2017 in the UK, behind Beauty and the Beast, Dunkirk, Despicable Me 3, Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 2, Spider-Man: Homecoming, La La Land, Fast & Furious 8, Sing, The Boss Baby and The Lego Batman Movie. It should overtake at least half of those titles by the end of its run. The film covers events in the first half of King’s book and a sequel, covering events occurring 27 years later, has been announced for September 2019.
Arthouse distributor Curzon made a rare foray into multiplex territory with sports drama Borg vs McEnroe, which contrasts the two famous tennis stars as they clash at the 1980 Wimbledon men’s final. But the rollout into 145 cinemas may have been too ambitious, given an opening weekend gross of just £102,000, including negligible previews. Site average is a poor £691. At the time, more than 17 million people viewed the match on BBC TV, and similar numbers have watched Andy Murray’s Wimbledon finals in recent years, but those sports fans are not necessarily cinemagoers. Fox will be looking at Curzon’s release campaign to avoid any pitfalls for its tonally very different tennis true tale Battle of the Sexes, starring Emma Stone and Steve Carell, out in November.
Cinema bookers have been pleasantly surprised by the success of In Between, a drama about three Palestinian women sharing an apartment in Tel Aviv. Plucky indie distributor Peccadillo released the film into seven cinemas at the weekend, garnering coverage from relatively mainstream outlets including Newsnight and Radio 4’s Woman’s Hour. Despite being stuck with split showtimes (sharing the screen with at least one other title) at all those sites, the film managed a £2,071 average, not counting previews. As a result, In Between expands to 27 cinemas for its second weekend.
Meanwhile, the film achieving the highest screen average this week was Lawrence of Arabia, which grossed more than £9,000 from its 70mm presentation at London’s BFI Southbank. (Kingsman: The Golden Circle has a higher per-cinema average, but that dilutes down when you count the actual screens it’s playing on.)
Thanks to the arrival of the new Kingsman film, the market rises by 23% from the previous frame, and is also 20% up on the equivalent weekend from 2017, when The Magnificent Seven failed to dislodge Bridget Jones’s Baby from the top spot. This coming weekend, three wide releases vie for audiences: Goodbye Christopher Robin, Reese Witherspoon comedy Home Again and the Flatliners remake. Cinema bookers will have higher hopes pinned on Blade Runner 2049, following a week later.
1. Kingsman: The Golden Circle, £8,525,664 from 602 sites (new)2. It, £2,852,965 from 578 sites. Total: £26,451,709 (3 weeks)3. Victoria and Abdul, £1,239,085 from 615 sites. Total: £4,831,777 (2 weeks)4. Mother!, £364,301 from 453 sites. Total: £1,668,307 (2 weeks)5. The Emoji Movie, £359,793 from 509 sites. Total: £14,043,072 (8 weeks)6. The Jungle Bunch, £288,417 from 521 sites. Total: £732,568 (2 weeks)7. American Assassin, £262,647 from 415 sites. Total: £1,371,723 (2 weeks)8. Despicable Me 3, £195,960 from 410 sites. Total: £46,717,650 (13 weeks)9. Dunkirk, £185,321 from 290 sites. Total: £56,086,005 (10 weeks)10. American Made, £151,960 from 248 sites. Total: £5,345,061 (5 weeks)
Maze, £123,985 from 65 sites (Ireland and Northern Ireland only)Borg vs McEnroe, £101,918 (including £1,788 previews) from 145 sitesNikka Zaildar 2, £64,701 from 17 sitesIn Between, £17,271 (including £2,776 previews) from 7 sitesBhoomi, £15,329 from 9 sitesVelipadinte Pusthakam, £14,856 from 44 sitesLawrence of Arabia, £9,359 from 1 siteOn Body and Soul, £9,035 from 10 sitesAy Lav Yu Tuu, £7,573 from 3 sitesOur Last Tango, £1,085 from 2 sitesAlmost Heaven, £739 from 1 site
•Thanks to comScore. All figures relate to takings in UK and Ireland cinemas.
!!!@@@$$$

Warner Brothers recently announced a release that combines both a “special edition” cut of Richard Donner’s 1978 blockbuster Superman: The Movie and an extended TV version that runs over three hours and was previously on television in 1982.
As the hefty box-office gross of even the abysmal Batman v Superman illustrated, there’s a lot of money to be made from even bad depictions of the Man of Steel (such as, you know, Zack Snyder’s Man of Steel). With that in mind, it’s not surprising this three-hour-plus cut of Superman is not the only alternate Superman movie cut out there. In 2006, as the world waited to be underwhelmed by Bryan Singer’s mostly forgotten reboot Superman Returns (which catapulted its star Brandon Routh to anonymity), Warner Brothers took advantage of the eternal market for Superman product with a restored version of Superman II, overseen by Donner.
Alternate cuts often dazzle cinephiles with their potential before disappointing them with their bloated reality. To cite a high-profile example, when Francis Ford Coppola finally got to release his director’s cut of Apocalypse Now, the overwhelming consensus was that the shorter, less crazily self-indulgent version of Coppola’s film was superior.
Alternate cuts often dazzle cinephiles with their potential before disappointing them with their bloated reality
Alternate cuts can drastically change how some cinematic masterpieces are seen. Before Annie Hall established the template for a lot of both contemporary romantic comedy and independent film (not to mention the next phase of Woody Allen’s career), it was a “free-associative project” with a working title of Anhedonia, which bore little resemblance to the proto rom-com it became. It originally ran almost an hour longer than the 93-minute version we all know and love.
Caddyshack is to bros what Annie Hall is to pretentious east coast intellectuals, but it was a very different proposition as well. According to comedy legend, the first cut of Caddyshack ran at four and a half hours. One of Bill Murray’s famous monologues lasted an entire half hour, until hard-nosed editors went in and transformed this shapeless mass of improvisation into a 93-minute movie. Caddyshack has been monetized and exploited relentlessly through the decades, but I doubt we’ll ever see the epic original cut, or a straight half hour of Murray riffing in one of his best and purest roles, though that would be the ultimate deleted scene.
That’s the thing about alternate cuts of famous or infamous movies: they hold out the exhilarating potential of being better than versions of movies we all seemingly know and love, but more often than not they’re poor relations that at best are self-indulgent and at worst terrible.
Richard Kelly’s gonzo 2006 satire Southland Tales, whose most famous set-piece features a feral-looking Justin Timberlake staring lecherously into the camera while lip-syncing to the Killers, was released to a chorus of boos when it premiered in a 160-minute unfinished version at 2006 Cannes. It bombed in a 145-minute theatrical cut, but the nice thing about cult films is that self-indulgences that were jeered in the past are often cheered in the present. The cult of Southland Tales is a cult of delirious excess, so the idea of even more crazy is irresistible to Richard Kelly die-hards.
We’re intrigued by alternate cuts of movies like Southland Tales, Annie Hall and Caddyshack. We may get to experience them at some point, but there are holy grails of the cinematic unseen that haven’t been shown in any version, director’s cut, theatrical, TV, edited or otherwise.
Orson Welles, for example, shot one of the most famous and notorious unreleased films of all time when he directed contemporary John Huston and a cast full of New Hollywood figures like Peter Bogdanovich over a period of years in the arty, very 1970s inside-show-biz melodrama The Other Side of the Wind. For decades, it seemed like the movie was cursed to forever go unfinished and unseen but that has changed over the past few years. In 2015, more than $400,000 was raised via crowd-funding to finish the film, but that doesn’t necessarily mean we’ll ever see an official release.
Even more promisingly for the morbidly curious, Jerry Lewis’s recent death at 91 renewed hope that we’ll someday get to see the ultimate unseen cut/unseen film: Lewis’s notorious 1973 Holocaust-themed drama The Day the Clown Cried. In 2016, 30 minutes of the film leaked on to YouTube, although it was taken down for copyright violation.
That’s a shame because that footage, incomplete and unfinished as it might have been, could very well be the only cut of The Day the Clown Cried anyone outside of Lewis’s inner circle will ever have the supremely questionable “honor” of seeing. Even that sliver of clown was a victim of international copyright law dictating that the unseen remain unseen, at least until there’s some money to be made from a release, as is obviously the case with the three-hour plus Superman, which has slightly more mainstream appeal than a Jerry Lewis movie even Jerry Lewis (who had a very high opinion of himself) thinks is terrible and should never be seen.
!!!@@@$$$

Kwame Kwei-Armah, the actor turned award-winning British playwright, has been announced as the new artistic director of the Young Vic in London. Kwei-Armah, who is currently the director of Baltimore’s Center Stage, will take over the prestigious theatre role next year.
Kwei-Armah wrote his first play, Bitter Herb, in 1998 and went on to be only the second black British playwright to have his work on at the West End, with his play Elmina’s Kitchen, which grappled with family and crime in Hackney’s so-called murder mile.
He will take over from David Lan, who will have been director of the Young Vic for 18 years when he steps down next year. Lan described the choice of Kwei-Amah to be his successor as “inspired”.
“To walk into the Young Vic is to come face to face with everything I love about theatre, so I am beyond humbled, if not a little scared,” Kwei-Armah said. “But to lead this magnificent theatre at this time in our nation’s history, after such a visionary as David, excites me beyond words. I can’t wait to get started.”
Kwei-Armah has held his role at Center Stage in Baltimore since 2011. His plays Elmina’s Kitchen, Fix Up and Statement of Regret were all staged at the National Theatre, and he has directed works in both the UK and the US, with his production of One Night in Miami at the Donmar Warehouse nominated for an Olivier award for best new play in 2016. He will also direct a new version of Ibsen’s The Lady from the Sea at the Donmar in October.
Raised in Southall, west London, he changed his name from Ian Roberts when he was 19 after tracing his family roots through the slave trade to Ghana. His experiences of growing up in Southall during the riots and witnessing the police and skinhead brutality against the black and Asian community had a profound effect on him, and formed the basis of his first play.
His first major TV role was as paramedic Finlay Newton in Casualty between 1999 and 2004, and it was during this time he gained prestige as one of Britain’s best emerging playwrights and directors. He was the chancellor of the University of the Arts London from 2010-15, and in 2012 was awarded an OBE for services to drama.
Patrick McKenna, chair of the Young Vic board, said that after meeting Kwei-Armah, the panel was “unanimous in its decision to appoint him as the next leader for this remarkable institution”.
McKenna added: “Kwame’s wealth of experience directing, writing and working with the local community in Baltimore and beyond will translate beautifully to his new role leading the work on the Young Vic’s three stages as well as its pioneering outreach and education work in London.”
!!!@@@$$$

The centrepiece of this year’s Belgrade international theatre festival was a 24-hour performance of Jan Fabre’s majestic, exhausting and exhilarating Mount Olympus: To Glorify the Cult of Tragedy. A hallucinatory vision of Homeric themes and characters, it presented a Dionysian orgy of madness, murder, incest, feminism, music (rave and arias) and extreme sports (skipping, dancing, fighting, loving). The show, which has had only a handful of performances in Europe since its premiere in 2015, started at 6pm on Saturday night and featured three 40-minute “dream times” during which the actors slept on stage. Durational theatre it’s called: the sort of event that tests your powers of endurance as well as the actors’. And it’s been going on a long time – the Greek festivals themselves were durational.
The modern template for all this is Robert Wilson’s KA MOUNTAIN AND GARDenia TERRACE, performed nonstop on seven hills in Shiraz, Iran, over seven days in 1972 (Wilson himself was hauled off to hospital after four days). In 1979, Ken Campbell had a 24-hour blast with Neil Oram’s The Warp, a 10-play rough theatre epic featuring Bill Nighy and Jim Broadbent. It started at 10am and the audience were on their feet for the duration: we were sustained by beer and sausage breaks. The sheer music-hall madness of that trip through the hippie underworld made it like an acid Archers. In 1985, Peter Brook’s eight-hour epic The Mahabharata was first staged late at night at a quarry in Avignon with the dawn coming up over the battlefield.
That year, Jan Fabre – the Flemish artist, director and cultural provocateur – arrived in London with his Antwerp company to put on the show The Power of Theatrical Madness, an amazing résumé of, and challenge to, the already fading international avant-garde theatre of which he is both the greatest critic and exponent. But at four and a half hours, that was durational theatre for wimps.
The 2,000-strong audience for the 24-hour Mount Olympus were encouraged to come and go throughout and could either leave the grim fortress of one of Europe’s largest conference centres, situated on the south bank of the Sava, or doss down on the plentiful sofas and sun loungers scattered through the building. But this was not a jolly sort of “sleepover” show like Duckie’s Lullaby at the Barbican in 2011. A huge screen in the bar area relayed the entire performance as streamed live on national television, punctuated with interviews with critics and artists.
About 13 hours into the show, I sat in the auditorium and watched the actors sleeping. It was a strangely hypnotic and eerie experience. I had no idea that they would rise and, goaded by the vengeful ghost of Clytemnestra and some remorseless drumming, jerk themselves awake to become the Furies in pursuit of Orestes. With their bedding thrown over their shoulders like togas, they departed, leaving behind two dancers who encircled the armoured and helmeted, still and silent figure of Agamemnon, in a jamboree of non-stop jetés till they dropped – except that they weren’t allowed to by the Belgrade crowd, who cruelly, and delightedly, exhorted them to carry on. The same thing happened during a military skipping sequence: the audience adopting the role of bacchants in their demands and participation.
The stories of Hecuba, Oedipus and Jocasta, Orestes, Phaedra and Hippolytus, Electra and Medea, all emerged at interesting angles to the overall Dionysian scenario; the cast spoke in Flemish, French, German, Italian and English; the pregnant ambience of the electronic score was punctuated with ravishing arias, sung a cappella by a fabulous mezzo soprano, by Verdi, Handel and Bellini, whose Casta Diva heralded a night-time garden orgy.
That sexual frankness included a full-frontal erection and a scene in which naked lovers who have oiled each other’s bodies in ritual solemnity are swamped in a tonne of sand dumped from above. The finale featured ecstatic dance and chanting, each cry of “Give me all the love you got” met with renewed clamour from the audience. The ritual had turned into a party: not one of those spurious knees-ups at the end of a West End compilation musical, but something genuinely communal and atavistic. We’d been through the wringer – and the whole night and day – together.
!!!@@@$$$

An early draft of Roald Dahl’s Charlie and the Chocolate Factory not only starred a black version of Charlie Bucket, it saw the character trapped in a life-size chocolate mould of a boy as a “metaphor for racial stereotype”, according to research by an American academic.
Dahl’s widow, Liccy Dahl, told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme last week of how her husband had wanted Charlie to be “a little black boy”. His biographer, Donald Sturrock, added that the idea had been rejected by Dahl’s agent, but no further details were provided about the discarded storyline.
Now Catherine Keyser, a professor of English at the University of South Carolina, has told the New York Times about the original plot of Dahl’s draft, Charlie’s Chocolate Boy. According to Keyser, the setup is similar to Dahl’s bestseller, with a magical chocolate factory owned by “Willie” Wonka, and children vying for a golden ticket to visit it. But Augustus Gloop was named Augustus Pottle and there were two more children: Marvin Prune and Miranda Piker. “And of course Charlie Bucket – who in this version is a black boy, and is accompanied by his two doting parents,” Keyser said.
Charlie, she added, “ends up in the Easter Room, where there are life-size candy moulds of creatures, and one of these is shaped like a chocolate boy. Charlie is fascinated by this. Wonka helps him into the mould and gets distracted. The mould closes, and the chocolate pours over his body and he is suffocating and nearly drowning in it. It hardens around him, which feels terrible. He’s trapped. He’s alive but can’t be seen or heard. No one knows where he’s gone. Then he gets taken to Wonka’s house to be the chocolate boy in Wonka’s son’s Easter basket.”
The next day, burglars attempt to steal money and jewellery from the Wonkas’ house – in this version, Mr Wonka is married – but Charlie, hidden in his mould, manages to prevent the robbery. In return, he is given a shop in the city, which he names Charlie’s Chocolate Shop.
Keyser said that although the story was mentioned by Sturrock and in Lucy Mangan’s Inside Charlie’s Chocolate Factory, it “had never been looked at in great textual detail” before her analysis. She said that she loved the “vulnerability and the potential” of the early draft, describing it as “a really powerful racial allegory”.
“I think the mould … is a metaphor for racial stereotype. In the early 20th century, chocolate marketing in both the US and England was very tied up in imperialist fantasies and in connecting brown skin with brown chocolate. In one British ad for chocolate, for example, you had a black figure holding a cocoa bean and happily bestowing it on white children,” she said.
“So I think it’s neat that in this mid-century moment Dahl has this black boy get stuck inside a mould that fits him perfectly – he emphasises that – everything about the mould fits Charlie, except [that] once the chocolate inside the mould hardens, it’s uncomfortable! So what better symbol of what it’s like to be turned into a racial stereotype than a black boy who gets stuck inside a life-size chocolate mould and can’t be seen or heard through this chocolate coating.”
Dahl, however, was told by his agent not to make Charlie black. He then went on to dream up the Oompa Loompas, which were originally written as a tribe of African pygmies, prompting accusations of racism and colonialism. Dahl rewrote them to be from “Loompaland” in subsequent editions, with rosy-white skin and golden-brown hair.
“I think this arc – from what I find to be a fairly anti-racist novel to one that has been rightly criticised for its racist and imperialist politics – [shows] Dahl’s ambivalence,” said Keyser. “I think that’s the power of racism; to make someone able to hold these contradictory views at once. To both identify with the underdog and seem to understand the pain of stereotype, but then be completely flummoxed that anyone finds the Oompa Loompas offensive. He was genuinely surprised and very annoyed. So I don’t mean for this to whitewash Dahl’s racial politics. I just really love the vulnerability and the potential in this first draft.”
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory went on to be published in 1964. It is now estimated to have sold more than 20m copies around the world.
!!!@@@$$$

Last month I spent an occasionally fraught week in Spain with my two kids – and for the first time, we didn’t send a postcard home to their grandparents.
We almost did. On day five we were in the little supermarket round the corner from our hotel and as I walked past the revolving rack of postcards in the doorway, I briefly stopped and looked at them, before deciding that we wouldn’t bother.
There didn’t seem to be any point. The previous evening a freak thunderstorm had left our balcony and the hotel lobby underwater, with two of the three pools knocked out by flash flooding.
My nine-year-old son, a keen YouTuber, quickly flipped into cyber-journalist mode, reporting on the drama as I pointed my smartphone at him. Minutes later, the video had been uploaded and friends and relatives had been emailed a link.
This is the way it is now. We go away on holiday but it’s easier than ever to remain in touch. Facebook, Snapchat and Instagram all provide the means for us to keep everyone back home abreast of our movements (assuming they haven’t muted us as a result of irritation, jealousy or apathy).
But today I am appalled by my decision not to send a postcard, having read about the imminent demise of Britain’s oldest postcard publisher. J Salmon will shut its 140-year-old operation at the end of the year, blaming shrinking markets and the rise of social media for nose-diving sales.
Look what we’re doing. We’re killing off the postcard and none of us even realise it, because we’re too busy tweeting pictures of our hot dog legs by a nondescript pool somewhere sun-drenched.
There used to be a genuine thrill associated with receiving a holiday postcard; even if the words on the back were bland, with just a weather report and a list of sights that had been seen, it gave us a chance to gawp at the destination while reassuring us that the sender hadn’t been killed by a shark or some dodgy foreign food.
That is, of course, if the postcard made it back to the UK before the holidaymakers themselves. The sight of the postcard on the doormat four days after you had got home was par for the course if you had travelled abroad, unless military precision was applied and postcard duties were carried out on day one.
Of course, the humble postcard used to be more versatile than just a holiday bulletin device – in the days before email and premium-rate phone lines, we would turn to it to enter a newspaper competition or vote for a singing binman on Opportunity Knocks. But no more.
One of my favourite places on earth is the indoor weekend market at Tynemouth station on the coast near Newcastle. There’s a fantastic stall with hundreds of old postcards divided into various categories, some blank, others used and decorated with stamps, offering glimpses into the lives of strangers.
I recently bought one, dispatched from Woburn Abbey in the 1950s, solely because of the message on it. The sender, Ruth, wrote: “I remembered I’ve left my button-up green dress in the sitting room. Please could you send it as soon as possible.”
After that came some mundane space-filling about what Ruth was up to in the next day or two before she signed off with some thinly disguised passive aggression: “I would like my dress by Saturday.” Hopefully Mr and Mrs SJ Ashby of 10 High Street, Polegate, got the message.
Unlike vinyl, there will probably be no revival for postcards, which is a shame. As they slide towards extinction, you could do a lot worse than visit postcard-killing Twitter and check out the @pastpostcard account. It promises “fragments of life in real messages on postcards from the past” – and boy, does it deliver.
There are more than 6,000 tweets there, with cards from across the globe, accompanied by snatches of ephemeral information from the senders. We can only wonder about the whole story behind “Raymond looks well but very quiet. Doesn’t say much at all” on the back of a picture of a bloke sitting in the Howard Davis Park in Jersey with his shirt off.
I’ve just ordered the spin-off book, mainly from guilt at having contributed to the death of the postcard industry. I’m blaming the rain in Spain.
• Andy Dawson is a freelance writer and author of Get in the Sea
!!!@@@$$$

It has been 25 years since the Menendez brothers graced the American evening news, and one wonders if television audiences will really remember very much about them. It’s doubtful enough people will recall them enough to make Law & Order: True Crime’s version of The Menendez Murders – which starts Tuesday on NBC – the nostalgia-fest that American Crime Story: The People v OJ Simpson was. The crime was big news when it aired and then vanished afterwards, a taste for alleged evil very easily forgotten. The story was about rich people, who were not particularly interesting.
The two Menendez trials that spanned from 1993 to 1996 were in the all-encompassing shadow of the OJ Simpson trial, a case with far more obvious large-picture implications. In the Menendez case, there were no observations to be made about racism, or the privileges of celebrity, or even much to say about domestic violence. Instead you had a much simpler armchair-detective question: were the Menendez sons sociopaths? Or were their crimes the product of horrific abuse?
The initial key to curiosity about the Menendez crime was that it was patricide. Erik was 18 and Lyle was 21 when they shot and killed their parents, Jose and Mary Louise “Kitty” Menendez, on 20 August 1989 as the parents watched television in the family living room in Beverly Hills, California. The brothers called the police themselves, claiming they’d come home from seeing Tim Burton’s Batman to find their parents dead. Neighbors reportedly saw one brother (the two looked alike and the neighbor does not appear to have said which it was) break down on the front lawn, crying inconsolably. Lyle gave a 30-minute eulogy at the funeral, which reportedly held listeners “spellbound”.
Here you had a much simpler armchair-detective question: were the Menendez sons sociopaths?
Then, though it was not very becoming of grieving sons, the Menendez brothers set about spending their inheritance in the semi-idiotic way of early twentysomethings. Between them, they bought a Porsche, some condos, and a restaurant in Princeton, New Jersey, where Lyle was attending Princeton University and apparently dreaming of budding entrepreneurship. Erik decided that his future lay not with college but with a professional tennis career and hired a personal coach for a five-figure sum. If the spending of all this cash seemed a little heartless, the vulgarity of the display does not seem wholly out of sync with what must have been the grieving processes of the incredibly but unimaginatively rich.
Later, the police would say they suspected that Lyle and Erik had been involved in their parents’ deaths from the start. But they could not prove it, and the brothers, being close, did not turn on each other. The thing that cracked the case, instead, was Erik’s sudden and seemingly totally unmotivated confession to a therapist he had seen several years before – but only reconnected with after the murders – that “we did it”.
It is not unusual, in a crime, for the secondary characters to take center stage, and that is certainly what happened to Dr Jerome Oziel, the psychiatrist (to be played by Josh Charles in the NBC adaptation). According to Dominick Dunne (whom Oziel threatened to sue), Oziel had been eager to remain in contact with Erik after the murders, interested in getting closer to a crime whose apparent victims he’d previously brushed shoulders with. But when Erik confessed – allegedly so casually that he was leaning against a parking meter as he uttered the words – he caught Oziel off guard. The good doctor, however, did not run in terror. Instead, he continued to see Erik and Lyle both, discussing the crime with them and eliciting a full confession.
But it was not Oziel himself who reached out to the police. Instead it was an ex-patient and sometime lover of his, a woman named Judalon Smyth (to be played by Heather Graham), who went to the police. Oziel, she apparently told them, had become afraid of the Menendez brothers, and had enlisted her to stand outside his office door and listen in as they confessed. Smyth told Dunne she had since become disillusioned with Oziel and the way he had treated her, claiming he’d used his psychiatric expertise to manipulate her into a sexual relationship. Earlier this year, Smyth admitted that she’d only gone to the police after she’d broken up with him. “I mean, it took a long time for me to do the right thing,” she told a bluntly titled news magazine show, Murder Made Me Famous. “But ultimately, I did.”
It was by this baroque method that the police learned about the confession tapes, and after a brief court battle, the judge ruled the tapes could be brought into the case as evidence because Oziel had feared for his life while recording the sessions. By that point, defense attorneys for the brothers had already begun to argue that the confessions on the tapes were, at best, incomplete. For now, Lyle and Erik said there had been a motive behind the murders that no one knew about: they both, but especially Lyle, had been subject to horrific sexual and emotional abuse at the hands of their parents. On the stand, Lyle cried as he described how his father had allegedly molested and raped him.
By the late 1980s and early 1990s, child abuse scandals were becoming more frequent. And the brothers’ claims, so difficult to definitively disprove, took hold not just with their attorneys and friends, but also with television audiences and, eventually, the hung juries on each brother’s first trial. The Menendez brothers were convicted on the second try, and now serve life sentences without the possibility of parole at separate California state prisons.
Unlike some of the other famous crimes of the 1990s, there is remarkably little mystery to the Menendez case. They were certainly guilty of pulling the trigger, and admit that much. They may or may not have been abused, but even if one grants them the benefit of the doubt, it isn’t clear that the abuse justified the crime: by 18 and 21, the brothers should have been able to remove themselves from the parental orbit. Perhaps owing to the relative lack of complexity in the case, the television show, reportedly, will focus on the experiences of Leslie Abramson (Edie Falco), the prominent attorney who fought for Erik and who was one of the brothers’ few passionate defenders. Perhaps there is some unknown intrigue there the show can surface.
!!!@@@$$$

Sex and death are the themes of this 90-minute play by the late Stephen Clark. The problem is that they are virtually the only topics discussed in a work written as a vehicle for Julian Clary. Although Clark, who won an Olivier award for his lyrics for the reworked Martin Guerre, had an undoubted way with words, this particular piece strikes me as morbid and exploitative.
We first see Clary’s Michael in his kitchen, coolly preparing pasta for an expected dinner guest. As he does so, he explores in rhyme urban myths about necrophilia involving subjects ranging from Rasputin to Marilyn Monroe. (Later, he somewhat ludicrously expands on his theme to include the archaeologist Howard Carter, who is considered a sexual predator because of his enthusiasm for the tomb of Tutankhamun.) But the drama gets under way with the arrival of the cockily assertive Tim, whom Michael had encountered that day in a pub. As a kitchen knife is freely brandished and the two men engage in mutual confessions, you are never quite sure whether Michael’s plan is to seduce or kill his guest.
Behind the play lurks the idea that Michael, abused in childhood, is terrified of close personal encounters. That leads, however, to nonsensical statements such as Tim’s claim that “killing someone is the most intimate thing you can do with them.” The play also teases us with the idea that we are about to witness acts of sex or violence. When a naked Tim poses in front of a relief of Leonardo’s image of Vitruvian Man, it looks very much like the former; when a knife hovers ominously around one of the two men’s genitalia, it implies the latter. Either way, the impression is that we are being pointlessly titillated.
Clary is at his best in the opening monologue where, slicing and dicing vegetables, he exhibits an economy of movement that constitutes physical grace. Although he handles the character’s later Oedipal narrative with some skill, not even he can disguise the fact that it feels like the author’s desperate attempt to shock and amaze. James Nelson-Joyce lends the dinner guest a frantic ebullience and Christopher Renshaw directs capably. But the play itself, which feels like the spawn of Jean Genet and Stephen King, is purgatorial without ever being truly cathartic.
• At Trafalgar Studios, London, until 28 October. Box office: 0844-871 7632.
!!!@@@$$$

Liz Dawn, who played Vera Duckworth in Coronation Street for 34 years, has died aged 77.
A statement from her family said the actor had died peacefully on Monday night. “We are devastated and heartbroken at the passing of our much-loved wife, mother, sister, grandmother and great-grandmother, the incredible Liz Dawn,” said the family.
“She has been the love, light and inspiration in our lives and we are bereft at her passing.”
Dawn, whose real name was Sylvia Butterfield, was born in Leeds and first appeared on Coronation Street in 1974. She remained on the ITV soap until 2008, when health problems meant she could no longer be on the show and her character Vera Duckworth died in her sleep.
She returned briefly in 2010 when she famously appeared as a ghost just as her husband Jack died in the same chair as her, and the pair had a final dance.
A statement from Coronation Street said her fellow actors on the show were heartbroken.
The statement read: “We have been blessed to have Liz in our lives, as she was such a kind, considerate and caring friend and colleague. As Coronation Street’s Vera Duckworth for 34 years, Liz brought so much joy and happiness to so many. She was a wonderful actress who will forever be a true Coronation Street legend.”
On behalf of ITV and the programme, Coronation Street’s executive producer, Kieran Roberts, said: “Liz Dawn was a true Coronation Street legend, a brilliant actor and a wonderful person. Everyone lucky enough to have worked with Liz during her 34 years playing Corrie icon Vera Duckworth will remember her with huge affection.”
Dawn had suffered from the incurable lung disease emphysema since 2004 and in 2013 she revealed her health had deteriorated further after she had a heart attack. She said: “I have only got a third of my lungs now … and I do get so breathless. I can’t walk for more than a few steps without needing my chair so I just go everywhere in it now.”
Dawn married her first husband, Walter Bradley, in Leeds in 1957, and the pair had a son before separating less than two years later. She then married the electrician Donald Ibbertson in 1965 and had three daughters with him. Her first major role came in the 1974 drama Leeds United, which appeared in the BBC’s Play for Today slot, and she was then given a small role in Coronation Street. It wasn’t until her character Vera married Jack Duckworth in 1979 that she became a core character in the soap and the pair’s turbulent but loving relationship proved fruitful for drama.
In 2000, Dawn was awarded an MBE.
Tracey Brabin, an MP who used to be on Coronation Street, paid tribute to Dawn, saying: “So sad ... the amazing warm hearted, generous and hilarious Liz Dawn has died. Working with Liz and Bill was highlight of my time at Corrie.”
Antony Cotton, who plays Sean Tully in the soap, tweeted: “Liz was a wonderful actress, a fascinating storyteller, a hilarious comedian and most importantly a brilliant friend.”
Kym Marsh, who plays Michelle Connor, wrote: “I’m so sad. What a wonderful lady. She will be so missed.”
!!!@@@$$$

It just got slightly harder to see a penis on Netflix. An episode of Maya the Bee, the animated preschool adaptation of a 105-year-old German book about a happy bee, has been yanked from the service after parents noticed a line drawing of an erect penis daubed on a log. And it is unmistakably a penis. It’s so explicit that the studio behind Maya the Bee is taking legal action against the artist responsible.
Which is funny or horrifying, depending on what you consider appropriate for young children. But the episode does still underline what a rollercoaster it is to watch children’s television on streaming services like Netflix. Unlike, say, CBeebies, where every frame of every show is parsed to ensure that it promotes a healthy message of educational inclusivity, the kids’ fare on streaming services is held to a much less stringent standard.
That might mean you’ll accidentally see a willy in the background of a bee cartoon, or it might mean you end up watching Grami’s Circus Show – a Netflix preschool show so steeped in scatology and violence that it’s impossible to imagine it being aired by any traditional broadcaster.
Grami’s Circus Show is a South Korean cartoon about a baby lion and his exploits in a circus. Which sounds harmless enough … until two and a half minutes into the first episode. At this point, one of Grami’s friends accidentally swallows a bomb, then tries to defecate it before it gets wedged in his sphincter, shoots him up into the air and kills him. There is also an episode where Grami tries to stop a baby bird from being eaten, only to accidentally murder it on an electrified bug zapper. There is an episode where Grami craps out three pixellated balls of faeces, and another where he urinates on a tiger’s face to avoid being burned to death. The episode entitled The Grim Reaper is particularly bleak, ending with Death itself murdering Grami and sneaking off with his corpse. The whole thing is thoroughly, unrepentantly unsuitable for children, and we only discovered it when it appeared on a “because you watched …” submenu after watching some nursery rhymes.
I have to hold my hands up here and admit that I’m slightly obsessed with Grami’s Circus Show. I boggle at the audacity of it. It is so spectacularly inappropriate that watching it is like picking a scab. Watching it with a toddler, as I’ve done by accident, is like playing chicken with object permanence; it’s fun in the moment, but the second any of it sinks in is the moment we’re all screwed.
The last thing I want to do is get Grami’s Circus Show banned. It’s silly and fun and culturally interesting. After all, violent slapstick is a mainstay of South Korean culture. When I lived there a decade ago, one of the biggest shows revolved around dropping a heavy metal tray on the heads of various celebrities; plus let’s not forget Dong Chim, a game where children poke each other’s anuses with their fingers at force. And, honestly, it reminds me of the out-and-out violence of the Looney Tunes and Tom and Jerry cartoons I used to watch as a kid.
But times have changed and, call me coddled, but I’m a bit iffy about it being seen by very young children. My son hasn’t quite reached the “why?” stage of his development yet, but when he gets there it’s going to be incredibly hard to explain why the cartoon lion is trying to squeeze an explosive device out of his bottom.
Grami’s Circus Show isn’t the only kids’ show with questionable content to be found on streaming services. Netflix also has a show called Suckers that features a sort of dominatrix character and a panda in a gimp mask, and a deep enough delve into Amazon Prime throws up so many terrifying sub-Lynchian nightmares that you end up yearning for the tightly-curated quality control of linear broadcasters.
It’s a shame because, when they try, these services are capable of creating some of the best children’s programmes in the world. Netflix’s Ask the Storybots is easily the equal of any kids’ show you have ever seen, and Amazon’s Little Big Awesome is more dizzyingly inventive than everything else you’ve watched all year. But until you can rely on them not to shove genitals or poo or murder into your toddler’s face, they’re never going to be completely trustworthy. Netflix: please keep Grami’s Circus Show, just make it less easy for children to find.
!!!@@@$$$

More than 100 prominent Australian authors including JM Coetzee, David Malouf and Helen Garner have put their names to an open letter urging Australians to vote yes in the same-sex marriage postal survey, in what they called “the interest of fairness, equality and social reform”.
Peter Rose, editor of Australian Book Review, contacted a host of names from Australia’s arts community following the high court’s decision earlier this month to allow the federal government’s postal vote to go ahead. With voting now well under way – and a decisive lead currently held by the yes side, according to a Guardian Essential poll – the literary journal has published the letter to its readers, signed by names including actor and writer Magda Szubanski, ballet dancer and author of Mao’s Last Dancer Li Cunxin, and the authors Geraldine Brooks, Michelle de Kretser, Kate Grenville and Christos Tsiolkas.
“One very good, and unexpected, result of this public discussion is that those of us who knew ourselves to be one with the family of LGBTQI now feel more openly a part of that union,” said author Alex Miller. “Before this business, the togetherness was implicit; now, at least here in this community, it is a stated reality. And stronger, I think. People have stood up.”
Rose said that the response had been positive and immediate, with artists, directors, lawyers and public figures also putting their names to what he described as “a respectful contribution from some of the most prominent people in the arts in Australia”. The open letter reads: “In the interest of fairness, equality and social reform, we encourage Australians to vote yes in the same-sex marriage postal survey.”
“This debate is about equality – no more, no less,” said Rose. “Homosexual acts are perfectly legal in Australia. Gays and lesbians (tax-paying and law-abiding citizens) seek the same right that applies to heterosexuals: the freedom to marry their partners if they so choose.”
Pointing out that this right already exists in countries including Britain, Germany and the US, he added that “gays and lesbians serve in our defence and police forces, they educate our children and work in our hospitals, they entertain us and illuminate our lives through literature and the performing arts”.
“The time for distrust and discrimination is over,” he finished.
The results of the survey will be announced on 15 November.
!!!@@@$$$

It’s 50 years since the publication of Jerusalem the Golden by Margaret Drabble, her fourth novel and the winner of the James Tait Black prize in 1967.
Margaret Drabble is an important, thought-provoking novelist; she has edited two editions of the Oxford Companion to English Literature and is also a biographer of note. She is worth reading at any time. Even so, I’m aware that this is one of the quieter literary anniversaries of 2017. A few readers may be wondering why we’re commemorating this book. But if you are perplexed, that’s all the more reason to stick with us. I’m hoping we’ll show that there’s a strong case for saying that Jerusalem the Golden deserves to be at least as well read as its more famous predecessor, The Millstone.
The anniversary is also significant because this novel provides such an interesting way-marker in our culture. As Lisa Allardice explained this article, Drabble is cautious about claiming she was writing explicitly feminist novels so much as “writing about the world around her and her own experiences as a young woman”. Allardice quotes her saying: “When I started writing, there was no women’s movement … Feminist criticism was born in 1968 precisely.” In which case, an unapologetically frank novel about the female experience published in 1967 seems all the more significant. As does the fact that this was a book touching on sexual liberation published so close to the so-called Summer of Love.
And if all that isn’t enough, we might also be able to take the opportunity to look at another of Drabble’s other novels later in the month. Many of them are admirably short and there are 20 to choose from. That’s right: 20. Not bad for an author who claimed she never really wanted to be a writer: “I didn’t want to. I just happened to write a novel when I was pregnant and had nothing to do.”
While I’m quoting, this contemporary review from the New York Times might also encourage you to read the book:
The author is an accomplished stylist who has been highly praised. Jerusalem the Golden says rather more than it would appear to do on a cursory reading. Which makes it all the more unfortunate that the book contains misprints galore. The final one tells us that the author, a former actress, has appeared with the Royal Shakespeare Company at ‘Strafford’.
I’m curious to check if the current edition has fixed the error. And happily, we can, because thanks to Penguin we have copies of the novel to give to the first five people in the UK to post “I want a copy please”, along with a nice, constructive suggestion in the comments section below. If you’re lucky enough to be one of the first to comment, email Phill Langhorne with your address (phill.langhorne@theguardian.com) – we can’t track you down ourselves. Be nice to him, too.
!!!@@@$$$

A man who has been charged with stalking pop star Taylor Swift has been deemed unfit to stand trial by a court doctor.
Mohammed Jaffar, 29, was sent to a New York state psychiatric facility, where he will remain in custody until further mental health assessments.
Jaffar is accused of plaguing Swift’s management company with phone calls – 60 of them over a two-week period in February 2017 – before entering her apartment building in the Tribeca area of New York. He also repeatedly rang her doorbell. He was eventually arrested in March, and a restraining order was made against him.
Jaffer had also tweeted images of sweets he planned to give Swift: “Something a gatekeeper (a guy dressed up as security guard in your lobby) prevented us from sharing.” He wrote her rambling poetry in which he said “There is nothing I love more than you”.
!!!@@@$$$

Contrary to the movie trope epitomised by Alex in The Clockwork Orange and Hannibal Lecter in the Silence of the Lambs, psychopaths are no fonder of classical music than anyone else, though they do appear to have other musical preferences, psychologists say.
In a study of 200 people who listened to 260 songs, those with the highest psychopath scores were among the greatest fans of the Blackstreet number one hit No Diggity, with Eminem’s Lose Yourself rated highly too.
The New York University team behind the work stress that the results are preliminary and unpublished, but the scientists are sufficiently intrigued to launch a major study in which thousands of people across the psychopathy spectrum will be quizzed on their musical tastes.
Tests on a second group of volunteers suggest the songs could help to predict the disorder. Whatever their other personality traits might be, fans of The Knack’s My Sharona and Sia’s Titanium were among the least psychopathic, the study found.
The researchers have a serious goal in mind: if psychopaths have distinct and robust preferences for songs, their playlists could be used to identify them.
“The media portrays psychopaths as axe murderers and serial killers, but the reality is they are not obvious; they are not like The Joker in Batman. They might be working right next to you, and they blend in. They are like psychological dark matter,” said Pascal Wallisch who led the research.
About 1% of the general population meets the description of a psychopath, but the figure is far higher in prisons, where about one in five has the disorder. One estimate, from Kent Kiehl, a psychologist at the University of New Mexico, suggests that psychopaths cost the US government alone $460bn (£340bn) a year.
“You don’t want to have these people in positions where they can cause a lot of harm,” said Wallisch. “We need a tool to identify them without their cooperation or consent.”
Scientists have already found gene variants that are more common in psychopaths, but they are hardly predictive of the disorder. They appear to alter people’s tendencies for empathy and aggression, but they do not determine people’s actions. Brain scans highlight distinct signs too, as the neuroscientist James Fallon discovered when he spotted the patterns of a psychopath in his own brain’s anatomy, but again, these do not set a person’s behaviour. Even if they did, the police cannot search for dangerous individuals by hauling people into brain scanners.
Wallisch recruited volunteers for a study on musical tastes, but realised that many of the participants had separately sat a battery of psychological tests, including one called the Levenson Self-Report Psychopathy Scale, which ranks people’s psychopathic traits. By combining the volunteers’ answers from the music study with their results from the psychopath test, Wallisch identified songs that seemed to be most popular among psychopaths, and others favoured by non-psychopaths.
While No Diggity and Lose Yourself were strikingly popular with psychopaths, other songs had greater predictive power. Wallisch declined to name them out of concern that doing so might compromise any future screening test.
The larger study will now investigate whether the link between musical tastes and psychopathy is real, and if it is, whether groups of songs can predict potential psychopaths. That could lead to some controversial applications, Wallisch said. If the team can identify a group of 30 songs, for example, that together prove good at predicting psychopaths, then playlists from online music providers could be used to identify them.
“The beauty of this idea is you can use it as a screening test without consent, cooperation or maybe even the knowledge of the people involved,” Wallisch said. “The ethics of this are very hairy, but so is having a psychopath as a boss, and so is having a psychopath in any position of power.” Fortunately for ethicists, the possibility is some way off yet. “This work is very preliminary,” Wallisch added. “This is not the end of an investigation, it is the very beginning.”
Kevin Dutton, a psychologist at Oxford, and the author of The Wisdom of Psychopaths, has been gathering data on musical tastes and other preferences for a psychopath study with Channel 4. More than three million people have responded so far, and while online surveys have serious weaknesses, the results so far suggest psychopaths favour rap music over classical and jazz. They also seem more likely to read the Financial Times than other newspapers.
Regardless of its accuracy, Dutton suspects movie directors like the idea of classical music-loving psychopaths because of the “irresistibly alluring” juxtaposition. “The coming together of the dark, visceral, primeval psychopathic mind and the higher aesthetic of classical composition is inherently incongruous, and there is a whole body of literature on the creative potential of incongruity,” he said. “It is the hypnotically captivating and age-old appeal of the ‘beauty and the beast’, only under the same cortical roof.”
!!!@@@$$$

The Aurora virus is a pandemic that drops on the world like some fairytale enchantment. It seals the women inside fibrous cocoons and leaves the men in a state of bull-headed disarray. There are riots outside the White House; an apocalyptic gang war in the streets of Chicago. Meanwhile, in Dooling, West Virginia, the battle of the sexes boils down to a joust between Clinton Norcross, a harried prison psychiatrist, and Evie Black, a supernatural girl drifter, incarcerated for the murder of a pair of crystal meth cookers. The clock is ticking, the end is nigh, and yet these two remain locked in their Mars-versus-Venus dispute. “We could go on like this for ever,” Evie sighs in her cell. “He said, she said. The oldest story in the universe.”
While the entertaining Sleeping Beauties – written by Stephen King in tandem with his novelist son, Owen – doesn’t quite last for ever, its allegorical drama extends across 736 pages. It’s a bulging, colourful epic; a super-sized happy meal, liberally salted with supporting characters and garnished with splashes of arterial ketchup. These women are sleeping but they must not be disturbed. Tear off the cocoon and the females awaken as zombies, or possibly as angels of vengeance, and immediately start murdering their husbands and sons. Evie – whom the Kings refer to as “the black angel” – clearly regards this response as a kind of cosmic payback. It may even be that she is pulling the strings from afar.
In framing small-town America as the microcosm of a single-sex planet, Sleeping Beauties could be the Y-chromosome sibling to Charlotte Perkins Gilman’s Herland, in which three explorers gatecrash a feminist utopia. But devotees of King Sr will find more familiar echoes here, too. The undervalued Insomnia, for instance, tackled the queer counter-life of the unconscious. Under the Dome showed how an isolated community could overheat and turn ugly. Most obviously, the account of a global pandemic harks back to The Stand, arguably the author’s greatest work, right down to its teeming cast of casualties and survivors. Recalling his struggle to write that novel, King would later lament that his story became overcrowded, infested – “a veritable Calcutta” of crisscrossing characters. Sleeping Beauties has similar issues and even goes so far as to provide an extended glossary of Dooling’s inhabitants. This includes various spouses and cousins, bakers and mechanics, along with “a common fox, between four and six years of age”.
Eventually – thankfully – several of these characters detach themselves from the herd. Clinton is our flawed new-man hero, struggling to salvage his marriage and watching as his sheriff wife, Lila, doses herself with caffeine and cocaine in a vain attempt to stay awake. Then, when Lila goes under, her post is filled by unreconstructed Frank Geary, a former pest-control officer with a hair-trigger temper. Geary is determined to save his daughter and rightly believes Evie Black is the key. And yet Evie, for all her prominence, remains the vaguest, least fleshed-out member of Dooling’s cast of hundreds. She is a plot device in the guise of an “enchanted being”; part succubus, part virago; brought in to frame an argument and dispense the clues. Even the fox has more emotional range.
Sleeping Beauties is at its most satisfying during its breakneck opening half, as the crisis takes hold, before the allegorical baggage piles up. One of King Sr’s great strengths as a writer is his mastery of the milieu of small-town USA, his uncanny ability to ventriloquise its inhabitants and keep his myriad pieces in play. His tale only falters when it doubles down on its premise, belatedly introducing a parallel Dooling, a shadow world for the sleeping women that is “so much better than the old man-driven one” – although even here it manages to redeem itself. The denouement is ambiguous, elegantly open-ended. Assuming the two tribes can be reconciled, one is left with the sense that they are destined to remain at a distance.
Was the writing of this book dependent on a similar creative friction? Did Stephen call the shots and have his son play apprentice? Or was this truly a joint effort; a collaboration between two writers blessed with the same DNA? It’s hard to tell – and this is surely for the best. But perhaps it’s no accident that this epic feels so vital and fresh. Sleeping Beauties comes fuelled by a youthful vigour that King Sr hasn’t shown us in years – probably not since 2008’s Duma Key. He appeared to have lost interest, dozed off, when maybe all he required was his son’s intervention. I like the image of Owen peeling back the cocoon, jolting his insensible father back into murderous bloody life.
• Xan Brooks’s The Clocks in This House All Tell Different Times is published by Salt. To order Sleeping Beauties for £17 (RRP £20) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
!!!@@@$$$

There is something quite shocking about seeing a new contemporary map of London in which the rich areas are labelled “primarily creative class” and the poorer parts “primarily service class”. But this is how the American writer and Toronto University professor Richard Florida portrays cities and sees people. There are those who create and those who serve them.
The book opens with its author recounting what his taxi driver told him on the way in from the airport about all the empty luxury flats in London. This feeds into his theory that the “new urban crisis” is about inequality and house prices, and would apparently be solved if only they could both be reduced a little. However, ending the real crisis might not be that simple.
Presumably the taxi driver was “service class” and Florida, who describes himself as “one of the world’s leading urbanists”, is a “creative”, but is what he is creating useful or harmful? Just above his map of London in the book, he claims that “surprisingly, there is not a single tract in London where the working class makes up a plurality of residents…” That claim is wrong, of course, but so are many of the ideas in this flawed book.
People can be divided into social classes: we have been doing it with census data since 1911. But they cannot be easily divided into those who are creative and those who are not. Surely, we are all creative to some extent. Similarly, while it’s true that whole neighbourhoods are no longer saturated by one social group or another, working class people still predominate almost everywhere – especially in London where the large majority of people are struggling in some way to get by, pay the rent, the mortgage, maintain their jobs and bring up their children. Whether they work in the creative or service sector is beside the point.
Yes, inequality and housing prices have risen; but this is partly because people in the US and, to a lesser extent, in the UK were fooled into believing that some people were worth far more than others and that housing in some cities was worth more than it really is. This has led in the last few decades to pay in the US and UK rising faster at the top than at the bottom.
The New Urban Crisis doesn’t look far beyond the US and UK. If it did, Florida would see that cities are more affordable and function better in countries where people respect each other more. Japan, for example, which is hardly mentioned, or the more equitable countries of northern Europe, or Canada.
So what does Florida suggest we do about rising inequality and rising house prices? The answer is very little, apparently. After concentrating on the travails of London, Florida ends the preface to the UK edition of his book by claiming: “Our great urban centres can no longer look to national governments for top-down solutions.” His claim is that city mayors are the solution. However, he fails to understand how limited the power of the London mayor is and how unfeasible it is to take ideas from the US infrastructure and try to impose them on the UK. The US has many massive cities. We only have one.
Later, he claims not only that no prime minister, president, or national politician in all of the US, the UK or Europe has ever talked “thoughtfully” about cities and urban policy but that none has the will or the power to do anything about it. That is quite some claim, and like many in the book it is both unsubstantiated and unbelievable.
Bernie Sanders, for one, made urban planning a central plank of his campaign last year, criticising the “ugliness , the greed and the recklessness we have seen [in American cities] from Donald Trump and Carl Icahn”. And the idea that the British government could not help solve London’s problems is laughable. No other body has the power to introduce rent regulation, to ensure that private landlords pay their taxes (huge numbers avoid it), to ensure that schools and hospitals are properly funded, that walking, cycling and public transport are encouraged, that the air is made cleaner, and so on and on. Florida says very little about public services. Neither schools nor hospitals appear in the index and public investment is covered in just five pages out of the 320.
Florida repeats many old myths, for instance suggesting that New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Boston – although all being highly segregated and unequal – offer greater avenues for upward mobility for the poor. They don’t. By some measures, social mobility is lower in the US than in any other affluent country in the world.
The words at the top of the book’s front cover read: “deserves to stand alongside Piketty’s Capital … Essential”. In a way this is true. Florida’s book is an example of the kind of thinking that got us into this mess in the first place. Understanding that thinking is an important part of starting to realise that we cannot go on like this.
Danny Dorling is Halford Mackinder professor of human geography at Oxford University. The New Urban Crisis by Richard Florida is published by OneWorld (£20). To order a copy for £14, go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

A television catchphrase is a powerful thing; nail the wording and intonation and it can propel a character into immortality. For instance, if it wasn’t for “Aaay!” people would primarily know the Fonz as a creepy middle-aged man who desperately wanted to be best friends with some teenagers. So, what are the 10 greatest catchphrases in television history? I’m glad you asked. Here they are.
A good catchphrase is one that can be easily replicated, and none are replicated quite as easily as “Ooh, Betty”. You simply put your finger to your mouth, look sheepish and make a noise like a deflating haemorrhoid cushion. It’s easy and, once you’ve got the hang of it, you can throw in a confident “The cat done a whoopsie on the carpet”. And what’s cooler than repeating a catchphrase from a 40-year-old sitcom? Nothing, that’s what.
The success of “Pretty, pretty good” lies in its potential for everyday use. People ask how you are all the time, and it’s much more fun to shout back “I’m pret-tay, pret-tay, pret-tay good” like a sour old Jewish millionaire than to just mumble and shrug like you usually do.
Although the first Flintstones script called for voice actor Alan Reed to simply yell “Yahoo!”, in the heat of the moment, Reed gleefully ad-libbed “Yabba Dabba Doo” by folding it in with the Brylcreem slogan “A little dab’ll do ya”. The success of the catchphrase not only spawned a mangy fruit punch drink called Yabba Dabba Dew, but also helped to conceal Fred Flintstone’s true nature as an angry misogynist layabout with a crippling gambling addiction.
As good a catchphrase as this is – it managed to keenly encapsulate the slippery relationship between politicians and the media – it makes the list because it stands the test of time better than anything that Kevin Spacey has ever said in the ongoing House of Cards remake.
A catchphrase is usually limited to a single character. Not so with “That’s what she said”, an update of “As the actress said to the bishop” that gradually infiltrated the entire cast of The Office (US). This arguably makes it the most realistic catchphrase in this list – no other captures the incestuous shared-air nature of modern workplaces, where inane in-jokes take hold out of nowhere.
This one can be intellectualised for ever. “Is it because I is black?” is a stinging comment on race and class and urban deprivation, delivered by a privately educated Oxbridge graduate. However, it’s included here because 17 years ago Richard Madeley did an Ali G impression on This Morning and it was so unbelievably incredible that it deserves to be mentioned as often as possible.
With the possible exception of Bill and Ted’s “Be excellent to each other”, no catchphrase in history has managed to convey an entire spiritual worldview as succinctly as “Live long and prosper”. How better to demonstrate your basic compassion than with a simple wish for a long and happy life? Never mind that it was probably ripped off from Shakespeare, it’s still better than “May the force be with you”.
Had 24 ended up on something like HBO, the fabric of the show would be completely different. Jack Bauer’s catchphrase “Damn it” only came into being because the network banned all other expletives. And the censorship undoubtedly works in 24’s favour. “Damn it, Chloe” has pace and urgency; “Chloe you great big twatting shit”, on the other hand, does not.
Fred Flintstone yelled “Yabba dabba doo!” to express dumb joy and 30 years later Homer Simpson yelled “D’oh!” to express dumb frustration. It’s the perfect response to being outfoxed by the world at every turn, which all of us are all the time. “D’oh!” is the human condition writ large.
What does “Hey now” even mean? It’s as pointless and hollow as you can get. And that’s the point. “Hey now” is a catchphrase schemed up for its own sake, a meaningless noise invented by a pathetic man whose only goal was to have a catchphrase. It’s a work of art.
!!!@@@$$$

New York’s Guggenheim Museum will remove three art pieces from an upcoming show featuring Chinese conceptual artists, amid accusations of animal cruelty and repeated threats of violence.
The museum will not exhibit three pieces during Art and China after 1989: Theatre of the World – two videos featuring live animals and a sculpture that includes live insects and lizards – over “concern for the safety of its staff, visitors and participating artists”.
The Guggenheim has been embroiled in controversy since the show was publicised, with animal rights groups calling for the the works to be pulled and a chorus of celebrities condemning the museum.
One of the videos, titled Dogs That Cannot Touch Each Other, is a recording of a 2003 live performance in which two pairs of pit bulls faced each other on treadmills, held back by harnesses so they could never make contact. Over the course of the video, created by artists Sun Yuan and Peng Yu, the dogs grow weary and can be seen salivating more and more.
“Although these works have been exhibited in museums in Asia, Europe, and the United States, the Guggenheim regrets that explicit and repeated threats of violence have made our decision necessary,” the museum said. “As an arts institution committed to presenting a multiplicity of voices, we are dismayed that we must withhold works of art.”
The show’s signature piece Theatre of the World involves an enclosure housing hundreds of insects and reptiles that devour each other over the course of the show. A reference to the animals eating each other was removed from the Guggenheim’s website.
The artist, Huang Yong Ping, withdrew the artwork from a show in Vancouver in 2007 after a local animal rights group requested modifications.
A second video, A Case Study of Transference, made in 1994 by Xu Bing, features a boar and a sow mating, both stamped with gibberish made by mixing Chinese characters and the Roman alphabet and is meant to represent the contrast between complex writing systems and the wild nature of the animals.
The three artworks are a tiny fraction of the roughly 150 pieces that are part of the exhibition, which is set to open in October.
Just last week the Guggenheim defended showing Dogs That Cannot Touch Each Other, saying it was “an intentionally challenging and provocative artwork that seeks to examine and critique systems of power and control”.
“Contrary to some reports, no fighting occurred in the original performance,” it added.
But those comments failed to assuage the anger of animal rights activists, with the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals saying the performance caused the dogs pain and distress.
“Such treadmills are typical of brutal dog fighting training regimens, and the mere positioning of animals to face each other and encourage aggression often meets the definition of illegal dog-fighting in most states,” the ASPCA said in a statement.
A petition condemning the exhibition had over 550,000 signatures by the time the Guggenheim decided to pull the works and accused the institution of “several distinct instances of unmistakable cruelty against animals in the name of art”.
Only “sick individuals” would enjoy watching Dogs That Cannot Touch Each Other and the Guggenheim should not cater to their “twisted whims”, Ingrid Newkirk, president of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (Peta), wrote in an open letter to the museum.
Celebrities including comedian Ricky Gervais and singer Richard Marx also accused the museum of animal cruelty.
!!!@@@$$$

This book is uplifting, funny, heart-breaking – a one-off. I have been wondering how Sophie Herxheimer, whom I knew of as a talented painter, came to write these dramatic monologues in the voice of her German Jewish grandmother. For this enterprise, a mix of memory and imagination, is more than ventriloquy, it is a detailed evocation of character – like inspired eavesdropping – a pitch-perfect labour of love. Many poems will bring a lump to your throat, although, if you are taking heed of what Grent Muzzer Liesel believed, you will know to keep your emotions under wraps. There is a particularly moving poem, about the end of Liesel’s life, in which she is visited in hospital by her granddaughter (Herxheimer describes herself through her grandmother’s eyes). The granddaughter breaks an unspoken rule, telling her grandmother she loves her: “…but Luff’s a Sink we neffer/ menschen. Ve bose know zis Rule, chest/ es ve bose know ze rottett Stomek off Dizpair/ Zis is vot makes us… indeeztruktibel.”
An “author’s note” explains the poems are written “in a Lenkvitch that my ear remembers as the way my paternal grandmother spoke”. She adds, simply, that her “first 17 years were my grandmother’s last”. Liesel lived in a quiet north London suburb and, visiting her, Herxheimer often wondered how Leisel and her husband had transported “such enormous heavy wooden furniture with them whilst fleeing for their lives”. The book is full of Herxheimer’s wonderful black-and-white papercuts of this remembered furniture – a shelf on which a coffee cup steams, a curvaceous sideboard, a table set with a lacy cloth (one poem is entitled My Demesk Tapell-Kloss). There is also a papercut of a ghostly pair of gloves – crossed, perhaps clapping.
She suggests: “Reading the poems aloud is a good way in.” I’d say it was essential. At first, you might think the spelling a gimmick but the more you read, the more powerful the language becomes. Sometimes, there is a split-second delay before you understand. Try reading this title aloud – Dess Bett – then hear what it means. What makes it interesting is that, as readers, we become the foreigners, the decipherers, tasting words on our tongues, trying them out for sense which brings us empathetically closer to Liesel as she acquires English, assimilates in London while holding on to Leipzig.
London, the opening poem, is charming yet unrepresentative because Liesel is far subtler than her thoughts about the reassuring nature of London buses. A closet intellectual, she borrows Chekhov from the library, rejoices in Schubert at a funeral, discusses Picasso and Paul Klee with a man who briefly, calamitously, becomes her lover. She works away on her sewing machine to save being “eaten alyfe by Pointlessnesse” (I like the capital P). She remembers people she has lost.
Herxheimer never wades into sentimentality, which is one of the reasons the poems are so moving. Tektonnik has a correspondent’s tone but Liesel’s friend Minna (although this is not spelt out) is not about to receive any letter. It ends: “In my Hedt: vair you liff olt Frent,/ oont vair ve go ofa all of ziz:/ vair still ve chet oont larf into ze Nyte.” There is another extraordinary poem about the life and death of Liesel’s twin brothers and – my favourite – Vossch by Hendt, Lern by Hart! about a lambswool sweater surviving the woman who made it. Herxheimer knits a moral into this poem: ‘Make Sinks. Make Sinks up! Play!’ To which I’d add other imperatives: buy, read, cherish this book.
Not zo mainy Dais zinz ve arrivink.
Zis grey iss like Bearlin, zis same grey Day
ve hef. Zis norzern Vezzer, oont ze demp Street.
A biet off Rain voant hurt, vill help ze Treez
on zis Hempstet Heese ve see in Fekt.
Vy shootd I mind zat?
I try viz ze Busses, Her Kondooktor eskink
me… for vot? I don’t eckzectly remempber;
Fess plees? To him, my Penny I hent ofa –
He notdz viz a keint Smile – Fanks Luv!
He sez. Oh! I em his Luff – turns Hentell
on Machine, out kurls a Tikett.
Zis is ven I know zat here to settle iss OK. Zis
City vill be Home, verr eefen on ze Buss is Luff.
• Velkom to Inklandt by Sophie Herxheimer is published by Short Books (£12.99). To order a copy for £11.04 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

In the opening sequence of The Vietnam War (BBC4), grainy footage rolls backwards: bombs fall up, riot police back away from protesters, villages and draft cards reconstitute themselves out of the flames. This sequence drags the viewer back in time, beyond some indeterminate point where history takes on the imprint of inevitability. Let’s stop looking at the Vietnam war through the prism of subsequent events, it says. Let’s remember what happened.
The release of a new 10-part Ken Burns documentary is always a big deal, although this one seems particularly timely. He shares the directing credit with long-time collaborator Lynn Novick, who probably isn’t getting enough attention for her contribution, but Burns’s name is so indelibly associated with a certain style of film-making it’s almost an adjective. In fact, the “Ken Burns effect” is the name commonly used for the editing software option that allows you to pan and zoom across still photographs, mimicking the technique so extensively deployed in his most famous documentary, The Civil War.
The Vietnam War bears many of its epic predecessor’s hallmarks: talking heads, sonorous narration (Peter Coyote, who has Emmy-winning form in this area), period music and a meticulous approach to sequential narrative. But, in this case, the talking heads are survivors (from both the US and Vietnam), a large proportion of the pictures move all by themselves, and the music is the sort of acid rock that seems to go well with scenes of fire and smoke.
I was born into the middle of the Vietnam war – by the time I was 10, it seemed to me that it had always been going on – and like a lot of people of my generation, I am intimately familiar with its slang and its acronyms, while pretty sketchy on its origins. The first episode took us back to France’s colonial rule of Indochina, although this narrative was wisely interwoven with footage from later stages of the war. That way it didn’t feel too much like a remedial history lesson, although it was one and, from my point of view, a sorely needed one. The second episode (they are showing two a night, in the modern manner) took us up to John F Kennedy’s assassination, by which time the US had 16,000 military “advisers” on the ground.
The story proper begins with Ho Chi Minh, a man whose single-minded obsession with an independent Vietnam was deemed too nationalistic by his fellow Marxist exiles. Nor was Ho, formerly a pastry chef in a Boston hotel, remotely anti-American in the early days. During the second world war, his fighters, the Viet Minh, were allied with the US against the Japanese invaders and the collaborationist French running the colonial government. When Ho declared Vietnam independent in 1945, he quoted a bit of the American Declaration of Independence.
After the war, the French reasserted their right to rule. They were the ones who introduced napalm – a gelatinous petroleum used to set dense jungle ablaze – into the equation. In an echo of what would come later, returning French soldiers were pelted with rocks in Marseille. But the US was by then obsessed with the idea that one south-east Asian country after another might fall to communism – the so-called domino effect – unless a line in the sand was drawn. According to one former Pentagon official, the US regarded Vietnam as “a piece on a chessboard, not a place with a cultural history that we would have an impossible time changing”.
Particular attention is given to the Vietnamese perspective, with a vivid portrayal of the rogues who clung to power in the south after the Viet Cong retreated above the 17th parallel, transforming a struggle for independence into a civil war. Particularly compelling was the ghastly Madame Nhu, sister-in-law of the nominal leader, Ngo Dinh Diem; she accused the Buddhist monks who set themselves alight in protest of using imported petrol.
Burns and Novick have a great skill for making an immensely complex story immediately comprehensible. The narration is kept to a minimum, but what there is of it is exquisitely written. Within the narrative they paint a picture of the US at a crossroads. A photo of Kennedy, that most modern of presidents, striding off to his inauguration in a top hat, offers a telling glimpse of a nation caught between two eras.
Above all, the Burns brand carries with it a sense of trustworthiness; of a project undertaken with humility, but without an agenda beyond the truth. Maybe it’s this notion, rather than the idea that the Vietnam war is at the root of the US’s divisive apolitical culture, that makes the series seem so important right now.
!!!@@@$$$

In the realm of Hollywood sci-fi, only one future is guaranteed. If a movie finds even a modicum of success with audiences, it will eventually be remade or turned into the starting point for a franchise. Who would have thought that a well-received but largely forgotten 1973 thriller about a wild west-style amusement park whose android cowboys turn on their guests would spark the best new television show of last year, in HBO’s Westworld? And who might have imagined in 1984 that The Terminator, a low budget futuristic vision from rookie film-maker James Cameron, would still be knocking around Hollywood 20 years after the date upon which the machines were supposed to have destroyed human civilisation?
Ever since his last turn at the controls, 1991’s Terminator 2: Judgment Day, Cameron has been forced to watch from the sidelines as the laser-honed perfection of his original vision has been twisted into a malfunctioning mess by a series of lesser film-makers. But now he and his original cast – Arnold Schwarzenegger and the criminally underused Linda Hamilton – are back to reclaim the franchise from the Hollywood machine.
Arnie has reportedly told a fan site that the new film will ignore the non-Cameron Terminator movies, with events taking their cue from Terminator and T2 only. We also know that the Avatar director will take a hands-on producer’s role, rather than directing, this time around. Deadpool’s Tim Miller is set to take charge for the first film, which is intended to mark the beginning of a new trilogy.
On paper, Terminator 6 (or 2.5), sounds like it should have all the ingredients for success. Yet history tells us that famous Hollywood film-makers who revisit past glories often find it impossible to catch lightning in a bottle a second time around.
Perhaps the most obvious case is that of Ridley Scott, whose return to the Alien franchise was hailed as an opportunity to recapture the brooding tone of his original 1979 venture, when he signed on to direct the film that eventually became Prometheus in 2009. Instead, the saga has lost its way horribly, with Scott seemingly obsessed with explaining elements of the Alien mythos that would be better off remaining as enigmas.
Sure, we all really wanted to know where the “space jockey” from Alien came from, but not enough that we would pay to see a whole new movie about that hitherto innocuous extra-terrestrial species – especially as the original xenomorphs were far more grimly fascinating. And yes, okay, the madness of Michael Fassbender’s David was probably the most interesting thing about Prometheus (though there was not much competition). But that does not mean we wanted an entire episode (as was the case with this year’s Alien: Covenant) devoted to seeing how far the Machiavellian android was prepared to push his freakishly grotesque envelope.
Scott is also returning as a producer on the imminent Blade Runner 2049, which at this stage looks rather more promising. With a little bit of luck, director Denis Villeneuve will have been given licence to pursue a vision that expands the original movie’s fascinating conversation about the nature of humanity, Because if Scott had been directing, we might easily have found ourselves watching a movie about the continuing adventures of the guy who serves Harrison Ford’s Rick Deckard his noodles.
The British film-maker is not the only director to have come a cropper when revisiting past glories. Steven Spielberg’s final Indiana Jones movie ought to have been 1989’s The Last Crusade, but the three-time Oscar-winner was persuaded to return by his friend George Lucas for 2008’s ill-conceived Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, a movie now best known for the “nuke the fridge” scene, some dodgy CGI gophers and the unwelcome addition of Shia LaBeouf’s Mutt Williams. Not to be put off, Spielberg will be back alongside Ford’s whip-cracking archaeologist for more, in a new, Disney-backed episode next year.
Then there is Peter Jackson, whose remarkable, Oscar-winning achievement in adapting JRR Tolkien’s The Lord of the Rings was tarnished by his undercooked, over-stretched Hobbit trilogy, a decade later. Let’s not even mention Lucas’s damnable Star Wars prequels.
Naturally there are exceptions to the rule that one should never go back – George Miller’s Mad Max: Fury Road being the clearest example. Why did that particular movie manage to buck the trend? And what can Cameron learn from his Australian contemporary? Instead of expanding the mythos into increasingly portentous territory, as Scott might have done, Miller simply gave us a better Mad Max movie than any we had seen before, trimming off extraneous fat and treating audiences to a thrillingly realised chase thriller of heavy-metal blood and thunder.
If Cameron can repeat the trick, and give us a new Terminator film that feels like the definitive episode in the saga, most fans will be more than willing to pretend that the last three movies in the series were wiped out of existence the moment Cameron fired up the time displacement gizmo and set the old electricity a crackling once again.
!!!@@@$$$

Rüstem Aslan, Troy’s chief archaeologist, grows more animated as he enters the fenced-off area just beyond the southern gate of the ancient city’s ruins. To him it offers tantalising clues that may add to the evidence that this was the scene of the war detailed in Homer’s epics, the Iliad and the Odyssey.
“Priam, Achilles, Hector: [whether] they lived and died here, we cannot prove that 100%,” said the affable Aslan, who started working at the site as a student in 1988. “But if you work inside for 30 years, night and day, winter or summer, surrounded by this landscape, you can feel it. You start to believe.”
The ruins of Troy are half an hour’s drive from Çanakkale, a city in north-west Turkey situated on the Dardanelles strait and near the Gallipoli peninsula. The site, on Hisarlık Hill, contains the overlapping remains of 10 cities, Troys I to X, dating from as early as 3,000BC.
Much of the excavations over the past two years have focused on an area directly across from Troy VI’s southern gate, dated to 1300BC, and the main entry into the ancient citadel from the plains below. A few dozen metres from the gate, archaeologists have uncovered a late bronze age road and the remains of a house from the era, indicating the existence of an extensive organised network of buildings beyond the city walls.
Investigations will resume in summer 2018 as Aslan and his team seek evidence of a violent confrontation in the area immediately surrounding the gate.
Archaeologists here believe Homer’s epic has a historical core that can be uncovered through excavations, a careful reading of the literature, and written documents from the Hittite empire that co-existed with Troy and collapsed with the end of the bronze age.
“This year we discovered a large area that follows from the south gate, a late bronze age street that is directly connected to the south gate, and we also found late bronze age house foundations connected to the street, which means the area around the citadel was organised and large,” Aslan says.
“Next year we will continue the excavation in an extended area and we will try to understand the last destruction layer outside the citadel. What happened, how it happened, and when it happened.”
The site was first posited as the possible scene of the war depicted in the Iliad as early as the second half of the 19th century, when excavations, first by the British consul Frank Calvert and then by a German merchant, Heinrich Schliemann, began in earnest.
Turkey hopes the accelerating work on the site will draw more tourists to the area, one of the most important historical ruins of antiquity. The country’s culture ministry has declared 2018 the year of Troy and is planning a slew of events to promote the site.
A museum will open next year housing many of the key collections and archaeological findings from the site. The Turkish government is in talks with museums around the world that have artefacts from Troy to bring them back to Turkey. The most famous is the so-called Priam’s Treasure, a collection of gold, weapons, artefacts, goblets and diadems smuggled out by Schliemann to Berlin and then taken to Moscow after the second world war, where they remain in the Pushkin Museum.
Aslan describes the Troy site when he first visited it as a student in 1988 as a “ruin of a ruin”. For him, the museum is a dream come true.
The outdoor site is kept purposely minimalist, with almost no reconstruction except for a mud-brick layer in the central fort to protect the core of old Troy from the elements. Aslan wants visitors who stand before the walls and fortifications to imagine the duel of Hector and Achilles on the grounds beyond the western gate, to see in their mind’s eye Patroclus attempting to scale the walls, or Helen and Paris surveying the assembled Greek troops on the plains below from the citadel.
He has little doubt that the multi-layered city at Hisarlık is Homer’s Troy – based on the evidence of destruction, the Hittite agreement that references King Alaksandu (who is believed to be Paris, the Trojan whose elopement with Helen, queen of Sparta, supposedly sparked the war of Greek myth) and the natural scenery that corresponds to descriptions in the legend.
For some, the Trojan war is not merely the foundational tale of western literature but also the foundational story of conflict between the east, symbolised by Troy and its Hittite allies, and the west, symbolised by the Aegean Greeks.
Aslan sees many lessons for today’s world. The destruction of Troy was followed by more conflict as the Hittite, Mycenaean and Egyptian empires collapsed. There were no victors in those wars – “just like the war in Syria”, across the border from Turkey, he says.
He also sees a parallel between the flight of Syrian refugees to new lands and the legend told in Virgil’s Aeneid, in which a Trojan refugee settles in the west and becomes the ancestor of the Romans.
“It’s not easy work, and you cannot prove with just architecture or archaeological objects what happened,” Aslan says of the excavations. “But we add one more piece of evidence.”
!!!@@@$$$

We’d hired a little place in Vancouver to write songs. I’d been listening to Black Crow by Joni Mitchell and said to Ben, my songwriting partner: “Wouldn’t it be great if we could do a song with similar, flowing open chords?” I sat down with a little Casio keyboard and the music came quickly, but I struggled to write lyrics for months. Then one day I just sat at the window with a typewriter and the phrase “constant craving” came into my head. Once I had that, the lyrics flowed.
“Constant craving” relates to samsara, the Buddhist cycle of birth and death, but I wasn’t a practising Buddhist then so I honestly don’t know what the impetus for the song was. I just wrote it from the perspective of desire and longing.
I was singing off-key and didn’t know why – then I had root canal surgery and was cured
Recording it was tortuous. I was singing off key and didn’t know why, a shocking thing for a singer to experience. Then it turned out a dental problem was affecting my hearing. I had root canal surgery and was cured. If you’re a terrible singer, get a root canal!
Also, I was pissed off that we had this song. It was poppy, celebratory, upbeat and didn’t fit with the mood of the Ingénue album. I knew we needed a 10th song but dragged my heels and was reluctant to sing or record it. I guess part of me knew that it was going to be a big thing.
The year 1992 was a watershed for me because I came out as gay in The Advocate magazine. We released Constant Craving as a single and it did OK – then I did a photoshoot for Vanity Fair. I’d seen a French movie called The Hairdresser’s Husband and had this idea of being pictured in a barber’s shop, so my friend Herb Ritts took a photograph of me being shaved by Cindy Crawford, which they put on the cover. It caused a huge sensation. People started questioning Cindy’s sexuality but I’m very proud of that cover. I’m not sure Constant Craving would have been such a big hit without it and I don’t think I’d have been in The Advocate or Vanity Fair without Constant Craving. It was a moment in time that clicked.
The song is part of who I am. At the time there weren’t really any other pop stars who had properly come out, especially female. I was on the cusp of being really famous, so there was a lot to lose. The previous year, there was a huge backlash when I did a “Meat Stinks” campaign for Peta, but by the time I came out I think people had exhausted all their anger and hate for me. When we were nominated for the Grammys, there were religious groups outside picketing, but it wasn’t too bad.
Constant Craving was originally titled Easter Passover, because it was written on a day that coincides with both holidays. For me it’s like a spiritual, like We Shall Overcome: an inspirational song about getting through the shitty parts, which may be partly down to how it was made.
When we first started it, it was in a much slower tempo and didn’t have a melody at all. I sat there for two days just trying to settle on the right chords for the chorus. At one point, it got very eastern, because we’d been listening to klezmer music – very dark, minor key, Kurt Weill, dark cabaret, “I vont to be alone” music.
When we first recorded it, we put instruments on and took them off again. Then it turned out that it was in too low a key for kd’s voice, so it was almost abandoned. I stayed up late and reworked the guitars in a key that suited her, and she said: “OK, let’s leave it in the running.” If I hadn’t stayed up, it might never have been finished.
It was released in Britain first and nothing really happened. Some of the early reviews for the album were horrible. People magazine destroyed it, but other places loved it. And when DJs in America started playing it, the Warner Bros switchboard lit up with people calling in. Having such a big hit was life-changing.
Five years later, I got a call from the Rolling Stones’ management. They’d written a song called Anybody Seen My Baby, but Keith Richards’ daughter had told him, “Dad, that’s Constant Craving!” They were real gentlemen about the similarity and gave us songwriting credits. When I was a kid in garage bands playing Stones songs, we used to joke: “One day the Stones will cover one of ours.” So to have a credit reading Jagger/Richards/Lang/Mink is a childhood dream that I still can’t believe actually happened.
!!!@@@$$$

‘Photography is a base passion that has taken hold of every continent and every section of the population,” wrote the Austrian author Thomas Bernhard in 1988. “Everyone wants to be portrayed as good-looking and happy, when they are in fact ugly and unhappy.”
That same year, Thomas Ruff was revisiting a series of portraits he had made of his friends in the early 1980s, producing new colour prints that were vast in scale and meticulous in detail. Thirty years on, hung in a brightly lit room in the Whitechapel Gallery, they retain their power to unsettle, not least because of their uniformity, their almost forensic detachment. Everyone looks ordinary, neither flattered by Ruff’s camera nor aggrandised by the monumental prints. If anything, his subjects’ shared middle-class conformity is emphasised by the scale and detail.
Ruff’s head-and-shoulder studies are a deadpan retort to Bernhard’s salvo against photography as “a perverse and treacherous falsification”. Nevertheless, Ruff includes Bernhard’s broadside in the catalogue for this London retrospective under a section entitled Fragments, in which he cites several sources, from Bertolt Brecht to Michel Houellebecq, that have influenced his work.
One can see why. In ways he could not have imagined, Bernhard’s scathing summation of photography’s power to mesmerise, flatter and falsify has come to pass in the age of Instagram and the selfie. For that reason alone, this is a timely show, a chance to see the full breadth and prescient power of Ruff’s exploration of how photography has been put to use – by artists, scientists, archivists, curators as well as photographers – over the last four decades.
There is nothing straightforward about Ruff’s engagement with the medium. Instead, his images are often oblique, referencing art history from modernism to the present, and increasingly engaging not so much with photography as with the image culture that it is now enmeshed in. Like Christopher William, also the subject of a recent Whitechapel retrospective, Ruff makes photography about photography. Both his early interiors – functional, neat, inordinately tidy – and the Portraits series nod to the formal typologies of his art school teachers, Ben and Hilla Becher, founders of the so-called Düsseldorf School, which Ruff – like Thomas Struth and Candida Höfer – has been bracketed under.
Ruff appropriates and reworks found photographs culled from press archives, the internet and even outer space. He has blown up jpegs until their low resolution becomes a kind of pixellated abstraction, turning internet pornography into a kind of blurred – in every sense of the word – eroticism.
To wander through the Whitechapel show is to wonder at how photography has become as much about remaking images as making them – and to witness how deeply Ruff’s magpie imagination has engaged with the limits of photography in an age of image overload. Once you have passed through that bright room of big, almost uncannily blank portraits, there are several small surprises. A series called Other Portraits comprises just two large monochrome head-and-shoulders studies that, on first glance, appear to be of an anonymous man and woman. They are in fact composites of the two, one set of features imposed on the other. The results are unsettling, recalling blown up passport photos or criminal mugshots, but with a haunting – and haunted – quality.
His Nudes series, created between 1990 and 2012 by enlarging and blurring images of internet porn, possesses an unreal aura that is oddly beautiful. That aura also attends his Night series, made in German cities throughout the 1990s using a night-vision camera. Here, noirish streets and buildings seem shrouded in a misty aquamarine glow that recalls 1950s sci-fi films or noir thrillers. Sometimes, as in the room where the Victorian negatives (their colours inverted to even more ghostly effect) share space uneasily with Soviet-style images of machinery, one could be forgiven for thinking that each series is the work of a different photographer. It is a testament to Ruff’s rigour that such experimentation only occasionally fractures what is somehow, against all the odds, a sustained signature.
Of late, though, Ruff has tended towards pure texture. Three large-scale images from a recent series, entitled ma.r.s, are close-ups of the planet, in which the surface has been enhanced digitally to make it look even more alien, but also aesthetically arresting. One huge crater is a bas-relief that requires 3D glasses for the full effect.
Elsewhere, there are exercises in abstraction, press archive photographs overlaid with the information written on the back of the prints, and photograms that echo the experiments of modernist masters like Man Ray and Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, and – surprisingly – a selection of more recent images in which press archive photographs have been overlaid with the information written on the back of the prints. Given his preceding experiments with enhanced colour and form, this seems almost like a backwards step, the one note in the show when Ruff’s work seems to lag behind contemporary photography (its ongoing obsession with archives and found images) rather than anticipating it.
Ruff has come a long way from the almost dadaist provocation of one of his earliest series, shown here, in which he draped himself in absurd poses over his living room furniture – poking fun, it seems, at the formal constrictions of traditional portraiture and the excesses of staged, postmodern self-representation. Somewhere in this challenging retrospective, that sense of mischief gets lost amid all the inter-referentiality but, in this too, Ruff was ahead of the game. He anticipated the vibrant crisis that photography finds itself in, amid the deluge of online immateriality. And, for all that, he makes beautiful prints that echo the values of another time, one whose craft and modernist rigour still haunts our profligate image culture.
• Thomas Ruff: Photographs 1979–2017 is at the Whitechapel Gallery, London, 27 September to 21 January.
!!!@@@$$$

Not long to go before the remaining celebs (ie those lacking the common sense to quit) return to civilisation, but their preposterous endurance test isn’t quite over. Now dangerously underweight, they’re beset by yet another storm and sprinter Iwan Thomas is off on a doomed hunt. Then, at 10.20pm, in the follow-up show, Surviving the Island With Bear Grylls, the absentee antagonist finally returns to answer for himself. Ellen E Jones
Any hopes that ad breaks would mean the removal of GBBO’s historical interludes – previously tolerated as a welcome kettle-boiling window – have come to naught. In pudding week, Sandi Toksvig briefly leaves Noel Fielding unattended and goes to Cambridge to learn about the history of the college pudding. Back in the tent, the last 8 bakers attempt tasks involving steaming, tricky timing and a jiggling stack of creamy layers. Jack Seale
After last week’s head-exploder of an episode, there’s a feeling of calm in Doctor Foster town. Of course, it’s not going to last long. Shifty Simon (Bertie Carvel, bringing optimum smarm levels to the role) reckons he has got everything under control and can live happily ever after with Kate in that massive house of theirs. But cracks are showing in his perfect life and eyebrows will eventually be raised by some of the issues that emerge this week. Hannah Verdier
A very intimate look at what it means to be transgender. From participants here we learn about the courage and liberation of social transition (dressing and behaving in public as you identify, rather than how you were assigned). Meanwhile, we travel to the Netherlands, where scientists have led the field in trans physiology – and hear about the more controversial side of their research: puberty suppression. John Robinson
The conceit of this series is that each episode chronicles one season of Alaskan life. Tonight it’s spring, a time that seems proportionately more miraculous the colder the general climate – which means that Alaska’s spring is more invigorating than most, as snows melt, birds return and bears rise from hibernation. But Alaska’s spring is short: the abovementioned and other fauna have barely two months to find a mate and start a family. Andrew Mueller
David Simon and George Pelecanos’s new series recreates the seedy Manhattan of the early 1970s, beset by a drug epidemic and impending bankruptcy. It’s scrupulously vivid, from the garbage piled high to the finery of the pimps. We’re introduced to Vincent and Frankie Martino (both James Franco), very different twin brothers with mob connections, Maggie Gyllenhaal as canny sex worker Candy and Lawrence Gilliard Jr (The Wire’s D’Angelo) as a cop. David Stubbs
A double bill closes the current season for the titular pathologist. A murdered schoolteacher’s sleazy past leads Rosie and Villa into the world of trafficking, expectedly intermingling with Slade’s similarly sordid past. Then, after a series of sadistic jewellery store heists, the department is desperate to find a response. Plus, the head of the new LA lab is finally chosen. An opportunity to escape the comic stylings of Richie at long last? Mark Gibbings-Jones
The Woman in Black (James Watkins, 2012) 2.10am, Film4
Daniel Radcliffe starts laying to rest his Harry Potter persona with a tale that would probably feature in Voldemort’s collected favourites. Susan Hill’s ghost story, after 20 years in the West End, makes for a chilling Edwardian-era horror film. Radcliffe’s young solicitor, Arthur Kipps, is dispatched to a gothic mansion where the curse of the mysterious woman in black is doing away with the local children. Paul Howlett
WTA tennis: Tashkent Open Day two of the tournament in Uzbekistan. 6am, BT Sport 2
Uefa Champions League football: Spartak Moscow v Liverpool A long and testing trip for Jürgen Klopp’s team. 7pm, BT Sport 2
Golf: British Masters Eight players and a number of celebrities take part in a floodlit knockout tournament. 7.30pm, Sky Sports Main Event
!!!@@@$$$

The moment Nick Cave walks on to the Manchester Arena stage, before a note of music is played, a gruff male voice from the crowd bellows “I LOVE YOU!” The singer nods. “I’m glad we’ve got that sorted out,” he mutters.
Thirty-four years into their career, Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds are a band that inspire a certain kind of undying devotion among their fans: perhaps uniquely among his peers, Cave recently became the antihero of a phantasmagoric graphic novel, Reinhard Kleist’s Mercy On Me.
Nevertheless, even the most devoted might be forgiven for approaching their current tour with a certain degree of trepidation. On the face of it, it looks like a spectacular mismatch. After four decades, they find themselves playing the Sheds, as the music industry colloquially refers to Britain’s arena-sized venues. It’s testament to how popular an uncompromising artist can eventually become if they’re as good at what they do as Nick Cave is, but seems an unlikely fit given their recent musical history.
A huge chunk of the set list is derived from their last album, Skeleton Tree, a remarkable and potent work even by their standards, but one that seems almost singularly unsuited to ringing out around the kind of vast venues that usually play host to stadium rock bands, production-heavy pop extravaganzas and indeed the deathless hilarity of funnyman Michael McIntyre.
The issue isn’t so much the devastating emotional tenor of an album recorded in the wake of Cave’s son’s death, although the fact that listening to Skeleton Tree frequently feels uncomfortably like intruding on someone’s grief is hard to get away from – “I want the shows to be uplifting and inspiring and for people to walk away feeling better than when they came, not some sort of empathetic contagion that goes through the crowd and people walk out feeling like shit,” Cave recently told the Guardian.
It’s more the actual sound of the album: as abstract and unruly in its own way as anything Cave’s old mob The Birthday Party came up with, a mass of electronic loops, ragged vocals, rhythms that clatter out of time with the rest of the track, songs that keep vanishing beneath grinding noise. It’s about as far removed from the kind of music built to rouse arena audiences as it’s possible to get: opening the set with a salvo of three Skeleton Tree tracks – the first, Anthrocene, the most abstract and unruly of the lot – seems an undertaking that in theory is either extremely brave or suicidal.
But there was something else Cave said in the same interview, about songs taking on a life of their own: “Songs are strange things … they’re patient, and wait for the meaning, and the meaning changes through the years.”
And so it proves tonight. While the lyrics of Red Right Hand are subtly updated – the murderous protagonist now sends “angry little tweets” – Anthrocene and the other tracks from Skeleton Tree appear stripped back and tightened up, with most of the short-circuiting sonic turmoil removed to reveal something beautiful and stately, not a million miles removed from the beautifully drawn ballads Cave and the Bad Seeds pluck from their back catalogue on stage.
You can draw a direct line between the heartbreakingly beautiful Girl in Amber and The Ship Song or Into My Arms. They reserve a sense of barely contained chaos for the earliest songs they perform, 1984’s From Her to Eternity and the following year’s Tupelo: tonight, both are genuinely awe-inspiring exercises in explosive, tumultuous fury.
The Bad Seeds sound fantastic – it’s hard to think of another band that can shift so seamlessly from elegance and control to white-knuckled bedlam. Cave himself, meanwhile, remains as magnetic an onstage presence as ever. He starts the gig seated, but quickly repairs to a barrier at the front of the stage, balanced precariously in front of the crowd, gripping the front row’s hands for support as he sings, breaking off from a particularly coruscating version of From Her to Eternity to thank an audience member for passing him a tissue: “That’s incredibly considerate of you.”
At one point, he starts beckoning the audience forward, and the entire standing area of the venue starts moving towards him. When it comes to the encore, he removes his sock and hands it to a fan he earlier admonished for taking photographs of his ankles, then begins plucking out people from the crowd until the stage is filled with fans, among them a child who looks about 10 and, a little disturbingly, appears to have a word-perfect knowledge of The Bad Seeds’ spectacularly foul-mouthed reimagining of the 100-year-old American folk song Stagger Lee.
It’s a joyous and unexpected finale to a joyous and unexpectedly triumphant gig.
!!!@@@$$$

Sir Terry Wogan has been voted the greatest BBC radio presenter, in a survey of leading figures in broadcasting to mark the 50th anniversary of Radios 1, 2, 3 and 4.
Wogan topped the poll ahead of John Peel, Sue MacGregor, Annie Nightingale and Alistair Cooke. Chris Evans, who was paid at least £2.2m last year by the BBC and is its highest paid on-air star, according to its official pay list, ranked 26th.
Wogan joined the BBC in 1966 and went on to present the Radio 2 breakfast show for 28 years across two stints. Wake Up to Wogan attracted more than 8 million listeners and at its peak was the most popular radio programme in Europe. Wogan, who was knighted in 2005, died last year.
The Radio Times polled 39 men and 39 women working in broadcasting, including the Today presenter John Humphrys, the author Philip Pullman and the BBC’s former director of radio Helen Boaden, asking them each to name their top 15 broadcasters on BBC radio.
Second-placed Peel was renowned for promoting new artists on Radio 1 and also presented Home Truths on Radio 4. MacGregor, who ranked third, has presented Woman’s Hour and the Today programme, and still fronts The Reunion on Radio 4.
Nightingale was Radio 1’s first female presenter when she joined the service in the late 1960s. Now 77, she still has a show on Radio 1 and is its longest-serving DJ. Fifth-placed Cooke wrote and presented Letter from America from 1946 to 2004.
The BBC is hosting a series of events to mark the 50th anniversary of its radio services, including a “live lounge month” on Radio 1 and a pop-up digital station, Radio 1 Vintage, launching at 6am Friday.
Tony Blackburn, who spoke the first words on Radio 1 in 1967, will present a programme on Vintage alongside the current Radio 1 breakfast show host, Nick Grimshaw, and there will be 50 one-hour shows, including archive material from the likes of Peel and Zoë Ball.
Also among the top 10 presenters in the Radio Times poll were Kenny Everett, one of Radio 1’s original DJs and twice fired by the BBC; Jane Garvey, the Woman’s Hour presenter who has led the criticism of the gender pay gap at the BBC; the jazz presenter Humphrey Lyttelton; Radio 4’s PM host Eddie Mair; and Garvey’s co-presenter on Woman’s Hour, Jenni Murray.
Notable absentees from the list include Grimshaw, Chris Moyles, Simon Mayo and the Today presenters Nick Robinson and Sarah Montague.
!!!@@@$$$

So the supremely creepy truth about Patrick Barker – the city type with the Kingsman glasses who we saw fleeing the country in episode one – emerges. He was having an affair with Sally, his wife Rebecca’s 20-year-old daughter from another marriage. When Rebecca caught the icky couple in bed, a distressed Sally brained her with a trophy Patrick had received for “thought leadership” in 2003. His subsequent thought leadership involved desecrating Rebecca’s body and dumping it in a children’s playpark to make it seem like the work of the acid killer.
Despite Patrick’s gory efforts at misdirection, Gabriel seemed to intuit that there was something off about him. But Richard Dormer’s raspy DCI abandoned the Barker investigation to track down his own daughter, Hannah, who had bunked off school to do some serious booze preloading before an illicit rave. In the end – also the beginning – Gabriel and Shepard caught up with a semi-conscious Hannah barely in time to save her from a sexual assault. In other words, this was the grimmest, grubbiest Rellik yet.
Things kick off 11 days before episode two – another chronological jump so substantial it feels like it must be intentional. With Rellik’s tricksy reverse narrative structure, perhaps writers Jack and Harry Williams intend to present episodes as discrete jigsaws to be pieced together rather than parts of an intimidatingly large whole. Again, we’re in gloomy London at night, with Gabriel having retrieved Hannah from what was clearly a dodgy situation – she lies dishevelled and zonked out in the back seat of Shepard’s car.
Once Hannah is home safe, Gabriel and wife Lisa have a brittle discussion about who might be to blame for their daughter acting out. Again it is implied that they are both guilty of some horrible – though separate? – misdeeds. Cut to Patrick Barker and his suspiciously young girlfriend, tossing some rolling luggage, women’s clothes and a big red hat into an abandoned car and setting it alight. “Is this what you really want, love?” he asks the girl, and there’s something weird about his intonation.
The action rewinds to almost three hours earlier, with cops Mike and Asim waiting to interrogate concierge Brian Sweeney, who is late clocking on. (We later hear that Sweeney works 9pm to 9am, so this must be a little after 9pm.) The body of resident Rebecca Barker was been found, but Brian swears he saw her leave the building that morning, and – rather conveniently – has a smartphone recording to corroborate his story. Meanwhile, Gabriel is tearing through pubs and nightclubs in search of Hannah. Amid a druggy rave, he finds her passed out in a back room with a leering, semi-naked man who Gabriel immediately attacks with alarming, if understandable, ferocity.
Another rewind, with flashes of a naked couple in bed. Gabriel and Shepard? Barker and his girlfriend? It’s almost six hours earlier, and we briefly check in with psychiatrist Isaac Taylor and Christine during a therapy session, one which the patient does not seem to be taking particularly seriously, judging by her sly Gloria Gaynor impression. Both seem to open up a little but the key moment comes when Isaac is called away and Christine, to her horror, discovers he has been taping their sessions on his laptop.
If there was any doubt that Patrick Barker was guilty, we see him patiently scrubbing at a stain on a door and trying to reassure his girlfriend – Sally, he calls her – that there was no other way to avoid what happened. Shortly afterwards and he’s sitting across the interrogation table from Gabriel looking plausibly distraught, having been informed of his wife’s death. As with all the acid murders, the face and fingertips had been burned off, but Rebecca had been promptly identified by the serial number on her breast implants.
Both Gabriel and Shepard suspect there’s more to Barker than meets the eye, but they get diverted by the news that Hannah has bunked off school. After a confrontational trip to her tearaway pal Cassie’s flat, Gabriel hears that Hannah knows about his affair. But is he hiding something else?
Spool back 12 hours and a bloodstained Patrick is preparing to send Sally out in disguise so Brian the concierge can corroborate their story. There is a brief cut to the Markham family home, where we witness Hannah hearing her parents having a fight, which seems like a rather convenient way for her to find out about Gabriel’s affair. Unaware of how bad his day is going to get, Gabriel is called to the latest murder scene, where the sloppiness of the acid burns bothers him. “That’s the part the killer takes time over,” he muses. Shepard suggests it might be a copycat.
The last rewind is another 13 hours to poor Rebecca and her little lapdog returning home early from a business trip to discover Patrick having sex with Sally. It’s only then that we discover that Patrick has seduced the daughter he apparently raised as his own. In a panicked fury, Sally kills her mother before she can reveal the affair. In the shellshocked aftermath, Patrick comes up with his grisly plan: to pin the murder on the acid killer …
So how does this eventful 36 hours look when viewed forwards? Patrick and Sally kill Rebecca after she discovers them in bed. The next morning, Sally pretends to be Rebecca while Patrick dumps her mutilated body in a park. Hannah Markham learns about her father’s affair and skips school. Gabriel and Shepard investigate the latest acid killer crime scene but tacitly agree that the latest body might be the work of a copycat. Patrick is pulled in to the station to be informed of his wife’s murder and is held under vague pretences late into the night. But instead of focusing on the case, Gabriel is tearing up London’s illegal rave scene looking for his missing daughter. He and Shepard find Hannah, while Patrick and Sally are burning all the incriminating evidence. And since we didn’t hear about any of this in the first two episodes, it looks as if they’ve got away with it.
• There haven’t been many gags in Rellik but Brian whiling away his night shifts by using his smartphone to dictate a racy novel – imagining a heroic concierge’s encounter with a “fulsome bosom” – was a nice change of pace: “Love had placed him on a different spiritual plane …”
• Another funny, if cruel line, was the hipster DJ’s response to scarred Gabriel’s aggressive line of questioning about his daughter’s whereabouts: “You’re a long way from Mordor, ain’t ya?”
• This week’s cop shop B-plot involved an escalating prank war between detective constables Sam and Andrea that, in reverse chronology, kicked off with the horrific, context-free sight of a slaughtered pig oozing blood all over a living room. A cheap shock, but an effective one.
• There was one last big fright in the final moments of the episode: who was the hooded figure ominously surveilling Gabriel in his kitchen?
Were you shocked by the Barker family revelations? Have you warmed to the reverse-chronology structure? Have there been too many red herrings? Let us know your thoughts and theories in the comments below.
!!!@@@$$$

Strictly Come Dancing and the X Factor have been battling it out for Saturday night audiences for 13 years, but the BBC show struck an unprecedented blow against its ITV rival last weekend by attracting almost 5 million more viewers in a record victory.
The contrasting performances of Strictly and the X Factor have raised questions about whether the ITV show has fallen into terminal decline despite creator Simon Cowell attempting to shake it up this year.
The X Factor attracted 4.8 million average overnight viewers on Saturday night, an all-time low for an episode of Cowell’s singing contest, which like Strictly launched in 2004.
In contrast, the first live episode of Strictly’s 2017 series attracted an average of 9.4 million viewers, a record for the opening show and up from 8.7 million last year.
The X Factor’s performance improved slightly on Sunday to 6.2 million average overnight viewers, but this is still well down on the programme’s peak in 2010, when 17.2 million viewers tuned in to see painter Matt Cardle win the final.
Tom Harrington, a TV analyst at Enders, said singing contests had become “stale” and questioned whether ITV would continue to put the X Factor up against Strictly.
“Shows are often moved around, including by the BBC, which sits on top of the channel listing but doesn’t have everything its own way – it moved The Big Family Cooking Showdown, so as not to clash with Bake Off on Channel 4, and it brought forward Poldark so as not to share a Sunday night again with ITV’s Victoria,” he said.
“Strictly and X Factor have been going head to head in some capacity for years and, up to this time, that consistency indicates that for both the BBC and ITV that arrangement works. That may change, however, with X Factor’s decline.”
Despite the X Factor’s falling audience, Harrington said it remained valuable to ITV. The programme reaches more 16- to 34-year-olds than Strictly – a valuable market for advertisers – and its viewing figures are expected to rise significantly when people watching the X Factor on catch-up services or recordings are taken into account.
“X Factor has been slipping since the heights of the late 2000s when the discovery of acts like Matt Cardle and Little Mix resonated with viewers,” Harrington said. “Singing contests have inevitably grown somewhat stale, a trend hurried along by the sheer number of them – in the past year, BBC has announced that neither Pitch Battle nor Garry Barlow’s Let It Shine will return for a second season.
“That being said, even as it stands X Factor remains a guaranteed pull for a sizeable audience, and one that is relatively young. It is important to note that on Saturday, X Factor was markedly more popular amongst the 16 to 34s than Strictly.”
Cowell has made changes to the X Factor this year in an attempt to improve viewing figures after a disappointing 2016, when the final was the least watched since the first in 2004.
There are expected to be fewer live X Factor shows in this series, and contestants will leave the programme on Saturdays and Sundays, rather than just in the Sunday episode.
A jukebox feature used to seemingly randomly select the theme of each week’s show has also been scrapped, while former judge Cheryl Cole is expected to return for the judge’s house stage. Despite the changes, the judges remain Cowell, Sharon Osbourne, Nicole Scherzinger and Louis Walsh, with Dermot O’Leary presenting the show.
While X Factor’s audience has been declining since 2010, Strictly’s has risen. The BBC dancing competition achieved its record viewing figures of 11.8 million in last year’s final, in which Ore Oduba beat actor Danny Mac and former singer Louise Redknapp.
BBC sources say the broadcaster is delighted with Strictly’s performance, particularly after the new series was criticised for featuring a supposedly underwhelming collection of celebrities. They also denied that the publicly owned organisation was being overly aggressive by scheduling the programme against X Factor, which generates millions of pounds of advertising for ITV.
Saturday’s episode of Strictly lasted for two and a half hours and the last 45 minutes overlapped with the X Factor. This contributed to X Factor’s audience dropping 1.5 million compared with the previous weekend when it did not clash with Strictly.
A BBC spokesperson said: “It’s up to other broadcasters how they schedule their programmes, but we have always broadcast Strictly at the heart of the Saturday night schedule – precisely where the public want the biggest show on TV.” ITV declined to comment.
The Strictly episode included the introduction of new head judge Shirley Ballas and a tribute to former host Sir Bruce Forsyth, who died last month. Aston Merrygold, the former JLS singer, topped the leaderboard. Other celebrities performing in Strictly this year include comedian Brian Conley, Paralympic champion Jonnie Peacock, and broadcaster and former stage performer Debbie McGee.
Despite Strictly performing stronger than the X Factor, ITV has enjoyed success elsewhere in the ratings battle. The first episode of Liar, a drama starring Joanne Froggatt and Ioan Gruffudd, attracted 8 million viewers, making it ITV’s highest rated new drama this year.
!!!@@@$$$

Star Trek posits a future of feminism, political rapprochement between generations-old enemies and the pursuit of racial equality. But it’s also only as progressive as its writers think their audience is. Maybe that’s why the latest version, Star Trek: Discovery, is more depressing than it probably intends to be.
It’s not bad at all. In fact, the new show probably has a genuine star on its hands in Sonequa Martin-Green, the first woman of color to act in the role of series protagonist. She is preceded in the position by both a woman – Kate Mulgrew, who led the good ship Voyager – and another person of color – Avery Brooks, hero of Deep Space Nine – by more than two decades, so she is asked to prove herself a bit less than she might be otherwise, and she is often the anchor that keeps Discovery from drifting off into the shallows of artificially high stakes, over-explained backstory, and tertiary plot threads that pervade so much contemporary sci-fi.
Discovery’s first two episodes amount to an old-fashioned two-hour pilot – a long-form bait-and-switch that establishes our crew, captain and quest and then tosses them all in a blender.
Those episodes are often gripping, but they don’t accomplish as much narratively as one might hope. For one thing, they don’t quite put Martin-Green’s character, Michael Burnham, on the Discovery itself, much less in the captain’s chair. Two actors named in the opening credits, Anthony Rapp and Jason Isaacs, don’t even have a moment of screen time, for another. This is a serialized show that aims to reward time invested, not to do something as paltry as entertain its viewers an hour at a time.
Michael is a wonderful character, an homage to Leonard Nimoy’s Mr Spock, who is her adoptive brother, according to the network. She is a human raised by emotionless Vulcans, and the way Martin-Green plays her longing for her father, distant both physically and spiritually, gives her a rare texture.
When the series begins, Michael is second-in-command to Michelle Yeoh’s Philippa Georgiou, an experienced and levelheaded captain who commands respect and admiration in much the same way as Patrick Stewart’s Jean-Luc Picard. And as the show’s Picard was to commander Riker, so is Captain Georgiou to Michael: a mentor, a friend, a surrogate parent. There is a crew of recognizable actors, notably a blessedly comic turn from Doug Jones as the fretful science officer, and then everything goes horribly, but excitingly, wrong.
Discovery, laden with eye-popping special effects but rather short on high concepts, owes less to other shows in the TV franchise than to the recently revitalized series of movies. JJ Abrams’ first two films, especially Star Trek: Into Darkness, are generic blockbusters, larded with both nostalgized callouts to ageing intellectual property and some artificial gravitas in the form of the visual language of war and terrorism we know from TV news. At the climax of Into Darkness, an extravagant riff on Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan, a rogue spaceship captain flies his vessel into a city, with all the attendant collapsing architecture and plummeting masonry we now, for some reason, permit in our entertainment.
Discovery pulls similar tricks, albeit less ponderously and without the thick-as-an-oil-slick sheen of nostalgia. Michael doesn’t really journey much of anywhere on purpose – she is on less of a star trek than a star war. She accidentally kills someone almost immediately, and then wins the subsequent confrontation with a Klingon military unit by booby-trapping a dead body. She ends up in the brig at the end of the first episode, and convicted of serious crimes at the end of the second –reversals of fortune the show takes far more seriously than the occasional war crime.
Michael is compelling largely because her character is younger and less likely to correctly solve the problems she faces than her predecessors; the steely confidence Martin-Green brings to the role makes it all the more shocking when she doesn’t succeed. The enemy race here are the Klingons, an alien species newly reimagined and re-revised as darker-skinned on average. The new-old Klingons wear gold skirts and carry elaborate swords – Worf’s bat’leth looks practical and conservative by comparison to its 24th-century ancestor – and their noses are flared.
I would never accuse a contemporary television show of not being self-aware enough to elide the various unflattering cultural comparisons that a wildly otherized violent alien race is more or less guaranteed to call up. Indeed, the writers have already been hard at work characterizing the Klingon rhetoric (“remain Klingon!” is an especially on-the-nose battle cry) as a dissenting response to racist rhetoric from Donald Trump. But it says something more complexly Trumpian about our cultural moment that we seem to need shocking savages for enemies, however much we may deign to humanize them at our eventual convenience.
For all their faults, the previous series had a tendency toward gentleness; the best episodes of the old shows tended to hinge on the crew’s desperate search for nonviolent or at least non-lethal solutions to some seemingly intractable problem. Discovery, I guess in the name of a more grave and serious show about alien monsters and time travel, ostentatiously walks a darker path, and on that path are a lot of our worst tendencies. It will be interesting to see whether those tendencies merit a more serious exploration.
!!!@@@$$$

During a career now spanning 40-odd years, AC/DC’s Angus Young has become renowned for many things: his distinctive dress sense, his devil’s horns, and a signature guitar sound that has inspired headbangers everywhere and helped shift several hundred million records worldwide.
While the origin of his fondness for school uniforms, and the band’s name – both courtesy of his sister Margaret – are relatively well-known, what’s not so familiar is the different inspirations for the many tricks Young pulls off during one of his typically tireless, frenetic live performances. Allow me, if you will, to spill the beans.
Young would have been perfectly comfortable if the recording of music ended some time around the late 1950s. He has regularly paid dues to the artists that have inspired him musically, and most come from the earliest days of rock’n’roll: I’m talking Little Richard, Buddy Holly and the like. But the influence of the recently departed Chuck Berry extends beyond Young’s playing and writing.
Berry actually inspired the frenzied duckwalk that Young pulls off every night. Admittedly, Young’s duckwalk comes at a much faster clip than Berry’s; the onstage Angus always looks and plays like a man in a hurry. There’s also Young’s habit of “conducting” an audience with his guitar, playing a flurry of notes, stopping abruptly, inciting the crowd to chant and then repeating the process until he’s flailing at his Gibson and the crowd is wailing along like banshees. Again. Berry inspired: “When [Berry] was singing,” Young once revealed, “he always had little raps with the audience ... I figured if Chuck could do it with his voice, I could do it with my guitar.”
This is the routine where Young drops to the floor of the stage and while gyrating madly and kicking his legs like a dying cockroach, fires off an inspired solo. This routine came about purely by accident; one night Young slipped over while playing, and fearing being mocked by the crowd, stayed down and kept soloing, doing his utmost to make it appear intentional. “I tripped over a lead,” Angus told a DJ from Sydney radio station 2JJ, “and fell on me knees. I thought people thought I was a fuckin’ idiot so I started bobbin’ around on the ground.”
Young has always had a thing for heights; as soon as the band started playing larger shows he’d usually end up on top of a PA or speaker stack, soloing as if his life depended on it, sometimes dodging bottles as he played. However, in 1986, while shooting the video for Who Made Who, Young had a very uneasy moment as he was lowered by wires from a second-storey balcony on to the stage floor – he felt genuine fear. “My whole life flashed before me,” he admitted, “and since I’m pretty short, that’s not very long.” Soon after, a doctor gave Angus an unexpected prognosis: he suffered from acrophobia and probably had for years.
A favourite part of the “Bon and Angus show” – the double-headed beast that was such a trademark of early AC/DC – was the big moment, often during the track Livewire, when the brawny singer would hoist the scrawny guitarist on to his shoulders and carry him around the venue, parting punters like Moses did the Red Sea. Curiously, Bon “borrowed” the move from Brian Johnson, when he caught the future AC/DC shouter in his first band, Geordie, doing the exact same thing with that band’s guitarist, Vic Malcolm.
As anyone close to the AC/DC onstage action can attest, especially during the early days of the band, coming too near Young in full flight could be dangerous. Mark Evans, their original bassist, revealed to me while writing High Voltage that the young Angus’ diet – a not quite department of health-approved blend of ciggies, chocolate milk and spaghetti bolognaise – would result in him emitting what Evans called a “snot cyclone” as he played, which usually left its mark over eager punters down front. Duck and cover.
Angus also sheds as much as 2kg per show purely in sweat Backstage, band members would look on in shock as he removed the scratch plate of his guitar and poured out what seemed like litres of his own sweat. Nowadays he has someone to do that onerous task for him; but at 62, Angus still works hard for his money: a handy nest egg that currently sits at around $200m.
• Jeff Apter is the author of High Voltage: The Life of Angus Young – AC/DC’s Last man Standing (Nero)
!!!@@@$$$

In our high-vocational stress household, the most volcanic tension usually erupts over control of the PlayStation. I’m still – still – absorbed in the game of Fallout 4 I started a year ago, with thousands of hours spent on perfecting the aesthetics of post-apocalyptic settlement-building. My partner prefers a wordless immersion in the splattery worlds of first-person shooters and war games but we reconcile over rounds of two-player Diablo, fighting demons and hoarding treasure together.
I’ve come a long way from the handheld Donkey Kong I cherished as a child, or the Pitfall caves I explored on a home PC, or the small parties of teens that gathered to play Sonic the Hedgehog on the loungeroom TV. The demands of fun are more complex now – but the need for fun remains the same.
Games not only mean different things to different people; they speak to the spectrum of moods and feelings in the individual human heart. As much as organised internet insistence may reduce the image of the modern gamer to a simple stereotype of those who are young, angry, pale and isolated, decades of video games have now spawned generations of adult players who bring their own complexities to electronic fun.
The answer to the question “What makes a gamer?” could be a need for connection, or for isolation, for relaxation or intellectual rigour, but it’s a question that can only be answered by gamers themselves. So I asked six of them.
Secretary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions
If it surprises you that the new leader of the Australian union movement describes herself as “the definition of a total gamer”, it shouldn’t. McManus came of age within Australia’s onset video game generation. “I’ve been playing games since DOS,” she tells me, “back when the computer was downstairs in the house, like it was a dungeon.”
Perhaps more surprising is the fact that the tireless political campaigner also loves playing strategy games in her downtime – even when she’s on planes. “My favourite game of all time is Civilization. I’ve played every version. When a new game comes out, I watch it and wait for it and I’m one of the first to buy it,” McManus says. The multiplayer strategic franchise forces the player to think on multiple levels. “You have to plan, adapt to different circumstances. A good game of Civilization can go for days – but the point where you start a new one and [it] randomly generates a map and you have to evaluate where you are, that’s so exciting. The first five moves you make are essential to what your empire is going to be like.”
It’s hard not to imagine parallels between her gaming instincts and her work. “Many years of my life have been spent waking up and thinking, ‘I know what I’ve got to do. I’ve got to invade from the north’,” she says. “It’s a problem you’ve got in the back of your mind that you’re thinking through all the time. I love it. It’s like a game of chess but it’s much more interesting.”
At home, McManus is playing Metal Gear Solid on her PlayStation. “It’s a first-person stealth and shooter game; you’re one character and you infiltrate everything from oil rigs to camps in the forest.” She’s also playing Skyrim. “Finding new things, choosing your weapons, upgrading your weapons – I love an open world game.” It’s the strategy, the tactics – even the patience – that appeals.
“I will always be a gamer,” she says. “I’ll get bored, really bored, with a bad game … I’ve got low patience with predictable games.”
Graphic design student
“I remember reaching for an arcade game at the fish and chip shop as a very small child, back in the days of Wonder Boy,” Anniene Stockton says. “I’ve been playing since I could hold a controller.”
A longtime PlayStation and PC gamer, Stockton’s relationship to gaming took a significant turn in the aftermath of a personal tragedy. A veteran of Melbourne’s fringe and cabaret community, Stockton shattered her leg in a dance accident. She was left with a permanent disability, in a brace, dosed up with painkillers to treat chronic pain. Her colourful world suddenly shrunk.
That’s when she stumbled onto the modern phenomenon of the live-streaming games community. “I discovered [live-streaming gaming platform] Twitch during a particularly fierce bout with my leg. I came across this video streaming site, had a bit of an explore and I saw a guy dressed as a pirate playing a video game and interacting with an IRC chat at the same time. I thought, ‘What’s this?’ And I stuck around to check it out. It lifted my mood and kept me distracted, and I decided it was a place that I could hang out.”
Now Stockton herself is a “Twitch Affiliate”, audio-narrating her own adventures in PC games to her new community, from home, in her pyjamas. Her equipment limits her to PC but she chooses “what’s entertaining for me to play and people to watch: Minecraft, Shadowrun, Don’t Starve – and my current is Stardew Valley”.
“The problem with chronic pain is that so many tasks and social activities people take for granted are either out of my reach, or so exhausting that I’m severely limited as to what I can do,” she says. “My disability leaves me quite isolated. Twitch not only gives me the sense of other people in the house but social interaction and connection, because I can chat with people in real time.
“Even though my streams aren’t as technologically whizzbang as others, people started tuning in partly because they already knew me from other channels and wanted to hang out.”
Performing artist and comedian
Jordan Raskopoulos, of the musical comedy act Axis of Awesome, lives in a home she describes as a “Nintendo museum”.
“I got my first Commodore 64 in around 1989, for my birthday,” she says. “I would have been six or seven. And before that I remember playing my uncle’s old Nintendo games, and I played LCD games like Donkey Kong Jr and I think there was a Zelda.”
But it was Nintendo with which the comedian bonded: her collection of Nintendo devices overspill her house.
Why such a bond with computer games? “I think part of it is that it helps me deal with my anxiety,” she tells me. “My brain doesn’t switch off, I worry and think all the time. Doing relaxing things isn’t relaxing for me. Sitting down in the sun is the worst. If I occupy my brain with something complicated, something that demands a lot of strategy, that takes my mind off my troubles, off everything ... I feel like my brain always has to be working at 100%, so if I find something that can occupy it 100% that’s a really good thing.”
Raskopoulos is currently playing a lot of Overwatch, Heroes of the Storm and Player Unknown: Battlegrounds, “which is kinda like a Hunger Games sort of thing … You all start out in the wilderness area and start scavenging for weapons, and the game makes the area smaller and smaller until you start fighting each other … I’m also playing a lot of Hero Academy 2 on my phone.”
Gaming isn’t something Raskopoulos restricts to the electronic; her whirring mind expends its energies into table-based board gaming too. “I’m preparing some models for the release of the Death Guard Codex this week. I paint little soldiers and fight the wars on tables full of little trees.”
Raskopoulos attends tabletop tournaments for war games. I ask if she may logically progress into competitive gaming, or eSports. “I think [eSports] is an amazing social phenomenon,” she says. “I find it fascinating how much has been borrowed from the language and performance of [traditional] sports coverage. It’s both a tribute to and a parody of those things. That’s fascinating.
“I don’t think I would be a competitor but I could see myself commentating or playing for entertainment purposes. Like celebrity golf.”
Actor, theatre-maker, artistic director
When Maeve MacGregor’s father was still alive, they used to play games together at the local internet cafe. “My dad wasn’t around in the first years of my life. I went to visit him once or twice a year in Cairns, where he was working in the 1990s. He introduced me to my first games on those trips.
“When he came back to Tasmania, when I was 11, gaming become a big part of us getting to know each other again,” she says. “We played Unreal Tournament together, which is the only first-person shooter I’ve ever really enjoyed, because it handled easily, because it was kinda silly – not based on real war – and because I played it with my dad. Also, I was better than him at it – I could never ever win at real-time strategy games against him. Except, I think, Dungeon Keeper. Once.”
MacGregor still games but is less inclined these days to play in a group. “I hate being threatened with rape by strangers on the internet,” she says. She is currently a keen player of Starcraft II. “I can make change in this tiny, imaginary place,” she says, when asked to describe what she gets out of gaming. “It’s also something that I share with my partner: we watch each other play and introduce each other to new games. He doesn’t play as much as I do but every couple of months he gets a craving for some Xbox and I love backseat-gaming him. It’s really funny.”
MacGregor isn’t averse to the violent content in games, although she prefers the worlds they operate in to be governed by “black and white morality”, to limit the parameters of game violence.
“I’m a big fan of the Fable series and in Fable you can interact with children but the game mechanics won’t allow you to hurt them,” MacGregor says. “I like existing in a world where hurting children is off limits.”
Provisional psychologist, completing a PhD
Shauntelle Benjamin was a latecomer to gaming. She started playing around five years ago having long foregone the consoles that amused her when she was a child. Now an adult, she was overworked and needed a new way to relax. “I met this guy and he was like ‘play a video game’ and it seemed to work, to take my mind away from stuff.” She’s no longer with the guy (“he was too relaxed”) but the games have remained part of her life.
What hooked her was the building game Minecraft. “There were three of us living in this house,” she says, “and using a server meant the three of us and other people could join that same game. We were building our own community as we were building things in that shared world. It was really communal.” Others listened to podcasts while Minecrafting; Benjamin listened to her university lectures.
It was a good strategy – she’s now only two years out from completing a PhD. Her game tastes have also expanded. “I usually go for something more strategy based – Civilization, Prison Architect, XCom 2 ... anything that involves building – building up a team, building up a group, or a world,” she says. “I’m one of those unfortunate people who can get seasick playing some games, so those turn-based games mean I can play longer.”
As a provisional psychologist, does she recommend games as a safe place to channel feelings? “Depends on the game,” she replies. “Some games are designed to remove empathy from you, so you can kill people. But Minecraft, Terraria – games that a lot of kids play – they tend to be relaxing. Adults tend to enjoy them because it’s an opportunity to do something mindlessly. There’s a lot of people out there playing Candy Crush to take their mind off something. I know psychologists who play games on their phone between appointments, because they need to switch off their brains.”
Office administrator
For Lisa Banyard, a sole parent who lives in Logan City, Queensland, gaming began as a way to bond with her teenage son.
“It started with both of us playing the Lord of the Rings games together,” she says. “He would have been 11, 12, 13. It was when the Lord of the Rings movies were coming out. We’d go see the movie, treat ourselves to Gold Class and have a special mum and son day, with the video game on pre-order. Then we’d spend days playing it. You needed two people to defeat the orcs – they’re pretty hectic.”
Banyard’s gaming experience has developed alongside her relationship to her son, over many years. As a soccer player, he gravitated towards the Fifa game series, and Banyard played too. She came to see the game as an extension of their physical lives: “Driving endless hours to training, him playing games and me watching, and driving to more goalkeeper training. Him playing football himself, me being an observer on the sideline.” Club loyalties are part of the attraction, too. “In Fifa, you can choose your players and choose your team. So I think our bond over Liverpool FC is in there as well … You’re even yelling at the referees – like going and seeing it live.”
When her son turned 18 and started university, the PlayStation was relocated from the family loungeroom to his bedroom – and now, to enjoy the Fifa game experience, Banyard must “endure the chaos.” The game remains no less distracting, with its powerful soundtrack and atmosphere.
“I’m always in teenage mum mode,” Banyard says. “I can’t help looking around thinking, ‘He’s got to pick that up.’”
!!!@@@$$$

Opening at the Ferens Art Gallery in Hull, the 2017 Turner prize is an uneven and at times frustrating exhibition. Relaxing the upper age limit for nominated artists is a good thing. Some artists don’t hit their stride until relatively late or are, for various reasons, overlooked. For a long time Lubaina Himid, born in Zanzibar in 1954, was just such a case. In the last couple of years, major solo shows in Oxford and Bristol, and her inclusion in a survey of 1980s black art, have brought her a new audience and increased visibility. Her 1987 tableau, A Fashionable Marriage, is a take on William Hogarth’s Marriage a la Mode, restaged as a series of cut-out figures. It remains the best thing in Himid’s Turner prize exhibition, which is a pity.
Her 2007 paintings on butter dishes, jugs, plates and tureens overlay the glazed crockery with fat-cat country squires lumbering about on horses, black servants and slaves, querulous ladies pondering the abolition of slavery, in a motley procession of 18th and 19th-century types. Riffing on the satirical prints of Gilray and Rowlandson, Himid shows what an accomplished graphic artist she is.
In another series, she works over pages and spreads from the Guardian, between 2007-2015. There are knives, guns, teeth and abstract, optical patterning, all relating more or less directly to stories about black sportsmen and women, police killings in the US, street gangs in London, and a host of other stories. Himid’s adumbrations are well done but minor. Her one, recent painting is a still and stilted thing. Were it not for her earlier work, would she be in the Turner prize now?
Too many paintings by Hurvin Anderson fill another gallery, in a survey of works from the last decade. I have always liked his barbershop paintings, and the way he uses the paraphernalia of bottles and products, the mirrors and posters and illustrations of haircuts on the walls as a kind of abstraction – they make you think of abstract expressionist Hans Hofman’s push-and-pull rectangles of dancing colour, and also at times of Dutch painter René Daniëls’ plays between figuration and abstraction.
In some of Anderson’s work, this game becomes a more awkward play between quotation and derivation. It is almost impossible to paint without quotation. I’m less interested in Anderson’s paintings of trees and foliage. Sam Francis is in there, along with Peter Doig and George Shaw. One recent painting, commissioned for the Arts Council Collection, presents a series of barbershop portraits hovering over a small shelf-bound Manhattan of hair products. Many of the portraits are like photographic negatives, white on black. Only Malcolm X and Martin Luther King appear in full focus and full colour. Is it OK to be Black?, the title asks. But again, I kept thinking of other painters, and in particular of Luc Tuymans.
Andrea Büttner and Rosalind Nashashibi’s shows are the best in this year’s prize. Büttner’s show is complicated, not least by a large display, called Simone Weil: The Most Dangerous Disease, borrowed from the Peace Library and Anti War Museum of the Evangelical Church of Berlin, which frequently lends it out. Mixing texts by the French thinker and activist Simone Weil, and large numbers of photographs, including harrowing Vietnam war images, American landscapes by Ansel Adams, August Sander’s portraits of national socialists, and much besides, the display is intended as an introduction to Weil’s times and thoughts.
There’s a lot to read and look at before we even get to Büttner’s large woodcuts – a bare black silhouette of a hill, jaunty potatoes floating in a field of colour, a number of simplified images of a beggar, a body humped over, arms extended in supplication. An entire wall is covered in hi-vis yellow fabric, on which hangs a number of large-scale etchings derived from the fingerprints and smears on her smartphone screen. As well as erudition and gravity, there is a kind of musicality to Büttner’s exhibition. I don’t know what all this adds up to, or where Büttner’s identification with the ascetic, socialist, religious Weil is meant to take us.
In her new film, Vivian’s Garden, Rosalind Nashashibi gives us a portrait of the relationship between a mother and daughter, Vivian Suter and Elisabeth Wild, in their rambling, ramshackle home and overgrown, snake-infested garden in Guatemala. We glimpse the daily comings and goings, their staff and numerous dogs, life behind a hefty gated entrance. Suter drags large canvases through the foliage. Her mother, in her wheelchair, glues together a collage by lamplight. The film is full of fractured glimpses, incomplete conversations, talk of departure and some violence in the past. Things hover that we can’t grasp. Nashashibi’s films are often extremely beautiful to look at, their slowness never a burden. For Vivian’s Garden alone, Nashashibi deserves to win.
A second film, shot in Gaza in 2014, slides down alleys, cruises the streets in a car, watches a Hamas march and witnesses the queues and anxieties at the border crossing into Egypt. Sometimes the scene – young men talking and singing in a room, a view over the city, the awful architecture at the border – flips into animation. Towards the end of these weary scenes from ordinary, but extraordinarily difficult everyday life, a black dot grows to almost fill the screen, a strange and startling irruption.
• The Turner Prize is at the Ferens Gallery, Hull, until 7 January.
!!!@@@$$$

Rock group Deep Purple’s former accountant has been banned as a company director for misappropriating at least £2m from two entities controlling their catalogue of hits.
Dipak Rao, who worked for the band behind the hit Smoke on the Water between 1992 and 2014, has been disqualified for 11 years following an investigation by the Insolvency Service. It found he siphoned money into his personal accounts from two companies, Deep Purple (Overseas) Ltd and HEC Enterprises Ltd, between 2008 and 2014.
The 69-year-old, who lives in Worcester Park, south-west London, concealed what he had done by ensuring that the transactions did not appear in financial accounts and restricted access to the companies’ bank statements, the Insolvency Service said. He resigned in November 2014 as a director of both firms – which control the copyrights of many of the band’s recordings – before they went into administration in January last year.
Sue Macleod, the Insolvency Service’s chief investigator, said: “Rao misappropriated company funds, causing detriment to the company and its creditors, to his own personal benefit.”
The Times reported in January that lead singer, Ian Gillan, 72, the bassist, Roger Glover, 71, and Ian Paice, 69, the drummer, as well as the estate of Jon Lord, the keyboard player who died in 2012, sued Rao in the high court over his management of their financial affairs. The case, which is believed to be ongoing, is separate to the Insolvency Service investigation.
The newspaper said the high court granted a £4m freezing order against the assets of Rao and his wife, Anvita. It said Rao admitted “borrowing” or “lending” at least £2.27m of the companies’ money, and that the Deep Purple companies had recovered about £477,000 so far.
Formed in 1968, Deep Purple became one of the world’s biggest rock bands, filling stadiums around the world. The group split in 1976 amid drug addiction and exhaustion, before reforming in 1984.
The band become the latest music stars to be caught in a tussle over money. Leonard Cohen sued his former manager Kelley Lynch in 2005, claiming she had stolen $5m (£3.7m) from his personal accounts. The court found in his favour and ordered Lynch to pay him $9.5m. The Rolling Stones sued their former manager, Allen Klein, in a long-running legal dispute that was eventually settled out of court.
After releasing their 20th album, InFinite, in April, Deep Purple are on the road with their The Long Goodbye tour.
• This article was amended on 26 September 2017. The picture caption on an earlier version said Deep Purple’s singer Ian Gillan was in the photograph. This has been corrected to say Roger Glover, the band’s bassist.
!!!@@@$$$

My friend and colleague Ian Williams, who had died of cancer aged 67, was a miner in east Kent. He was born into the industry: his grandfather was one of the many who walked from South Wales to find work in the county’s new fields during the 1920s. When coalmining ended, Ian had a vision for a new arts centre in the old buildings – it is a vision some are hoping will one day become a reality.
Ian was born in Aylesham, one of three sons, to Edward, an electrical engineer for the National Coal Board, and his wife, Mary (nee Thomson). Ian went to school in the village and then on to secondary education in Hersden. He did his electrical engineering apprenticeship training at Canterbury College and at Chislet colliery.
There were four productive mines in Kent: Chislet, Tilmanstone, Betteshanger and Snowdown. Ian worked at all of them except Snowdown, although he lived in the village. He was underground electrical shift engineer at Betteshanger, and in the mines rescue team at Tilmanstone and Betteshanger. Ian remarked that no matter what relations were like above ground, underground anyone’s life could depend on anyone else, and enmities were insignificant.
The strike of 1984-85 was hard. Ian’s wife, Val, went to work at the local pub and Ian looked after their children, David and Kelly. The Kent miners held out longest in the strike but the collieries were all closed by 1989.
Ian was passionate about promoting youth cycling with Velo Club Deal, where David was a star performer. When the cycle course made at Betteshanger as part of the regeneration was found to be flawed – spoil washed across the track in heavy rain, and ploughed-in metal exposed – he commissioned a report that led to remedial work.
After the pit closures, Dover council and the South East England Development Agency drew up plans to flatten the Snowdown site for a business park, but with it would have gone the last built fabric of the Kent coalfield. Ian had the visionary idea of using the buildings to make what he called “another Aldeburgh”. He found me online, through my work for the Industrial Buildings Preservation Trust, and that is how we met. He said it was a beautiful site, but it was not until I visited that I really believed him.
He envisaged a cultural site that would bring people from not just the local area but across the country (via the tiny station at Snowdown) and even from Europe, it being on the doorstep of the Channel tunnel. When a development agency representative said that most working-class people were not interested in opera, Ian was outraged. We celebrated when the agency was abolished.
However, in the end we were unable to secure ownership of the site. With two buildings there now listed, I still hope we may one day see the opening of the Ian Williams Hall. The man and the industry deserve a memorial.
He is survived by Val, their children and four grandchildren.
!!!@@@$$$

In the 17th century, William Prynne’s cheeks were branded with the letters SL, standing for “seditious libeler” after he published pamphlets critical of Anglican clergymen. Such punishments are long gone in the UK and US, but as this year’s Banned Books Week gets under way, the chief executive of Index on Censorship has warned that the “anger of the mob” online has spawned a new, modern kind of censorship – particularly when it comes to young readers.
“There is a really worrying trend of popular pressure forcing children’s books off shelves,” said Jodie Ginsberg of the campaign group, which is part of a coalition of UK organisations staging events, panels and discussions to mark the annual celebration of the right to read.
Last year in the US, Scholastic pulled the picture book A Birthday Cake for George Washington from publication following criticism of its upbeat depiction slaves’ lives, while the author of the picture book A Fine Dessert was forced to apologise for its depiction of slave characters. Ginsberg also pointed to the UK tabloid press campaign in 1986 against a book about a child with two fathers, Jenny Lives With Eric and Martin.
“It’s particularly true in the US. It’s not as prevalent in the UK but it’s not unheard of,” said Ginsberg. “We aren’t branding cheeks for seditious libel; we no longer have a censor in chief. But we have a different kind of censorship … that allows the anger of the mob to force both publishers and authors to censor themselves out of fear.
“In 2017, we can read what we like but there is a different kind of censorship in operation, not coming from the state but from an outraged public. We really need to be aware and wary of it and we’re not, sufficiently.”
Ginsberg was clear that censorship isn’t something that happens far away. “It has happened in the UK. In every library, there are books that British citizens have been blocked from reading at various times. As citizens and literature lovers we must be constantly vigilant to guard against the erosion of our freedom to read.”
UK events this week include a discussion with Melvyn Bragg and members of the Salman Rushdie Campaign Group on The Satanic Verses controversy at the British Library, as well as David Aaronovitch, Irish author Claire Hennessy and publisher Lynn Gaspard exploring modern-day censorship at the Free Word Centre in London, as well as events and promotions in public libraries.
Almost all of the challenged books are flagged because of sexual content... the only exception is Bill Cosby
Organisers are keen to make the week a major part of the UK literary calendar. It was launched in the US in 1982, to mark what the American Library Association (ALA) said was a sudden surge in attempts to have books removed or restricted in schools, bookshops and libraries. Since then, more than 11,300 books have been “challenged”, with last year’s most controversial title the award-winning graphic novel This One Summer by Mariko and Jillian Tamaki – “because it includes LGBT characters, drug use and profanity, and it was considered sexually explicit with mature themes,” said the ALA.
Almost all of the books on its annual list of challenged books are picture books and young adult novels, flagged because of sexual content, transgender characters or gay relationships. The only exception on this year’s list, the Little Bill series, was challenged because of the high-profile sexual harassment claims against their author, comedian Bill Cosby.
“We live in a society where the individual is far more empowered, but that brings other challenges. Once the mob gets going, it is very easy to silence authors, or to get publishers to pull books from publication. And that raises questions about the books that are getting out: who is writing them? And who is being approved to write them?” said Ginsberg.
Theyoung adult novelist Hennessy pointed to a recent Vulture piece about the “toxic” online community around young adult books, where novels are being “targeted in intense social-media callouts, draggings, and pile-ons – sometimes before anybody’s even read them”.
The piece’s author, Kat Rosenfield writes: “In recent months, the community was bubbling with a dozen different controversies of varying reach – over Nicola Yoon’s Everything Everything (for ableism), Stephanie Elliot’s Sad Perfect (for being potentially triggering to ED survivors), A Court of Wings and Ruin by Sarah J Maas (for heterocentrism), The Traitor’s Kiss by Erin Beaty (for misusing the story of Mulan), and All the Crooked Saints by Maggie Stiefvater (in a peculiar example of publishing pre-crime, people had decided that Stiefvater’s book was racist before she’d even finished the manuscript),”
Hennessy said there was a worrying trend for YA authors to be required to have personal experience of the issues they write about. “The idea of authenticity is a preoccupation for reviewers and bloggers and it is very frustrating – I disagree with it completely,” she said. “It’s a very dangerous path to go down … It’s a strange bubble. On one hand there’s the feeling that it’s just on Twitter and Goodreads, but then these are the places where the writers are, and where the people in publishing are, so it is a bubble full of relevant people.”
“Twenty years ago,” Ginsberg added, “it required a lot of effort to campaign against something. Now you can create that outrage and pressure almost instantaneously. And publishers respond to that very quick outrage on social media. It’s really vital for publishers who have invested in their books and believe in their value to defend them even when the madness of the mob descends. What worries me is that publishers do sometimes cave in, when they should be part of the frontline [defending] free expression.”
1. This One Summer by Mariko Tamaki and illustrated by Jillian TamakiReasons: Challenged over LGBT characters, drug use and profanity. It was also considered sexually explicit, with mature themes.
2. Drama, written and illustrated by Raina TelgemeierReasons: Challenged because it includes LGBT characters, was deemed sexually explicit and considered to have an offensive political viewpoint.
3. George by Alex GinoReasons: Challenged because it includes a transgender child, and the “sexuality was not appropriate at elementary levels”.
4. I Am Jazz written by Jessica Herthel and Jazz Jennings, and illustrated by Shelagh McNicholasReasons: Challenged because it portrays a transgender child and because of language, sex education, and “offensive viewpoints”.
5. Two Boys Kissing by David LevithanReasons: Challenged because its cover has an image of two boys kissing, and it was considered to include sexually explicit content.
6. Looking for Alaska by John GreenReasons: Challenged for a sexually explicit scene that might lead a student to “sexual experimentation”.
7. Big Hard Sex Criminals by Matt Fraction, illustrated by Chip ZdarskyReason: Challenged because it was considered sexually explicit.
8. Make Something Up: Stories You Can’t Unread by Chuck PalahniukReasons: Challenged for profanity, sexual explicitness and being “disgusting and all-around offensive”.
9. The Little Bill series by Bill Cosby and illustrated by Varnette P HoneywoodReason: Challenged because of criminal sexual allegations against the author.
10. Eleanor and Park by Rainbow RowellReason: Challenged for offensive language.
!!!@@@$$$

Things we forgot we already knew: the postcard industry is dying. The country’s oldest postcard publishers J Salmon has been churning small coloured squares of card out of its factory in Kent for more than 100 years. Until now. The fifth-generation brothers who still run the company have sent a letter to their clients, advising them that the presses will cease printing at the end of the year, and they will sell off their remaining stock throughout 2018.
It’s a sad demise for a company that brought us some iconic images of our country. The firm’s story began in 1880, when the original J Salmon acquired a printing business on Sevenoaks high street, and produced a collection of twelve black and white scenes of the town. In 1912, the business broke through into the big time by commissioning the artist AR Quinton, who produced 2,300 scenes of British life for them, up until his death in 1934. From Redruth to King’s Lynn, his softly coloured, highly detailed watercolours of rosy milkmaids, bucolic pumphouses and picturesque harbour towns earned him a place in the hearts of the public. J Salmon did photographs, it did cheery oils of seaside imagery titled with a garrulous enthusiasm: “Eat More Chips!”, “Sun, Sand & Sea”, “We’re Going Camping!”. It commissioned the comic artist Reg Maurice (who often worked under the pseudonym Vera Paterson), to produce pictures of comically bulbous children with cutesy captions, alongside the usual stock images of British towns.
It was this century’s changing habits – and technology – that did for them. “People are going for shorter breaks, not for a fortnight, so you’re back home before your postcards have arrived,” co-managing director Charles Salmon noted. He barely needed to say that Instagram and Facebook had made their product all but redundant, almost wiping out the entire industry in a decade.
Rodney Villiers is managing director of The Postcard Company. Based in Omagh, the firm physically prints the images that postcard publishers send them. Only, not so much any more. “We’ve lost about 90% of our customers. It’s a dying business, on its uppers,” he says. Villiers dates the decline to “around 2007” – the year social media bit hard. The Postcard Company has managed to hang on by diversifying its business into art printing. “We survive on postcards we print for art galleries and the like.” The kings of the saucy seaside postcard, Bamforth & Co, ceased to be in 2001.
“When I heard the news, I was actually surprised they still existed,” says Michelle Abadie, co-director of the John Hinde Collection. John Hinde was once J Salmon’s biggest rival; it sold 50-60 million postcards a year at its peak in the 1960s, but it, too, shuttered about four years ago. The licensing for its rich archive of images was sold off, and repurposed in art books.
This may be the fate of J Salmon. Because, in one sense, the death of the postcard is overstated. Like vinyl records, our fetish for the physical objects we left behind is already making its presence felt. “If you go into Waterstones now, they sell lots of postcards of book covers,” Abadie points out. “The idea itself isn’t dead – as a decorative object, people still want them.”
!!!@@@$$$

It’s over a decade since Sally Beamish had the idea of composing a passion. What she has now produced, with a libretto by David Harsent – as a joint commission between the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment and its US counterpart, the Philharmonia Baroque of San Francisco – is in many respects a version of the traditional passion story, but with one significant difference. For this is The Judas Passion, the story of Christ’s crucifixion as seen from the perspective of the man who betrayed him.
Harsent’s take on the passion story, interweaving details from the apocryphal gospels as well as the biblical ones, examines the role of Judas and explores whether his betrayal of Christ was a necessary part of the plan. Without it there would have been no crucifixion, no sacrifice to redeem mankind. Just as in his librettos for Harrison Birtwistle’s operas Gawain and The Minotaur, Harsent has retold an ancient story, finding in it new perspectives and ambiguities. In his Judas Passion, God and the devil are two sides of the same coin, always singing in rhythmic unison, just as the fates of Jesus and Judas are twinned and inextricable.
Judas is given a couple of passages of self-justification and self-loathing, but Jesus remains elusive in this retelling. And, though there is no hint of pastiche, the example of Bach’s passions permeate Beamish’s score, not just in her use of a period-instrument orchestra – only the percussion, including a specially invented “Judas chime” to signify the 30 pieces of silver, is a deliberate anachronism – but also in the use of baroque musical forms (aria, fugue, chorale, chaconne) within the transparent textures.
It’s all perhaps closer to opera than to oratorio, and this premiere, with the OAE’s finely detailed playing shaped by Nicholas McGegan, was economically and unfussily staged by Peter Thomson. The three soloists – tenor Brendan Gunnell as Judas, baritone James Newby as Christ, and soprano Mary Bevan as Mary Magdalene, who is more narrator than protagonist – and the all-male chorus of 11, who also take all the subsidiary roles, created a timeless and in many ways non-specific drama.
If the vocal writing occasionally recalls Britten’s church parables or John Adams’s opera-oratorios, the best of Beamish’s music is instrumental – minatory brass interjections, delicate tracery from the lute and harpsichord, intimate intertwinings from the pair of flutes. But those moments, like the most haunting of Harsent’s lines, are just a bit too unspecific. They keep their distance from the subject, intellectually and emotionally.
• At St John’s Smith Square, London, 25 September. Box office: 020-7222 1061.
!!!@@@$$$

This year’s Turner prize makes a powerful political statement with a shortlist of artists who champion the diversity of the British art scene, the director of Tate Britain has said.
Alex Farquharson, the chair of the Turner prize judging panel, said that the diverse, cross-cultural shortlist, “the most international to date”, sends an important and timely message during a period of increasing hostility towards immigrants.
He made the comments at the opening of the Turner prize exhibition at Ferens art gallery in Hull on Monday.
This year’s shortlisted artists – Lubaina Himid, Hurvin Anderson, Andrea Büttner and Rosalind Nashashibi – have all taken on political issues in the works that feature in the exhibition. It follows accusations in 2016 that the prize was failing to engage with the current climate, with the work of last year’s winner, Helen Marten, seen as apolitical.
Farquharson said: “It’s certainly an embrace of multiculturalism and I think in that sense it’s reflective of British art and society. The jurists are particularly interested in the transnational, the cross-cultural this year.”
The works of Himid, who was born in Zanzibar, and Anderson, whose parents are Jamaican, both addressed the issue of black representation in art and media. An age limit of 50 was dropped for the prize this year, meaning that at 63 Himid is the oldest artist to be nominated.
Her works selected for the Turner exhibition reflect her contribution to art, and particularly the representation of black women in art, since the 1980s.
Her best-known work, A Fashionable Marriage – a sculpture made from wood cut-outs and featuring figures such as Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan – was made in 1986. It is featured in the exhibition and its messages about race and polarisation still feel very timely, Farquharson said.
Anderson’s work in the exhibition dwells on his Jamaican heritage and features his paintings of barber shops, which celebrate their role in Afro-Caribbean communities. Also in the show is his work Is It OK to Be Black?, inspired by the wall displays inside of a barber shops, which features Martin Luther King and Malcolm X.
“I would say that that black representation and artistic expression is a huge aspect of art today, both in the UK and internationally,” Farquharson said. He said the removal of the age limit had meant the prize could have a role in championing older artists, who were often female, black or Asian and whose contribution was just beginning to be recognised properly.
“In the art world right now there is an increased interest in, and understanding of, the contribution of black British artists in the 80s,” he said. “They were important in their own day, but it was a struggle and it has not recognised as a key aspect of the story of art at that time. Yet increasingly there is widespread acceptance that the 80s black art movement ushered in a lot of what we see today.”
Other political issues that feature in this year’s show include the conflict in Gaza, which is the focal point of one of Nashashibi’s films, while Andrea Büttner addresses the rise of fascism in the 1940s through the words of the French philosopher Simone Weil.
Farquharson said of the prize: “It can now play a different role and it is already doing so in this exhibition. It reflects a wider interest in the contemporary art world right now in marginalised background practices, often by women, often by black and Asian artists, and the bringing of that work to the fore. It’s too early to tell whether this will be the character of the Turner prize going forward, but it’s certainly an option for future jurors.”
The new rules were also a nod to the fact that the generational divide, particularly apparent in modern art in the 1990s when the Turner prize gained notoriety with the YBA artists, was no longer so apparent.
“Perhaps a few years ago we were in that avant-garde narrative of one generation breaking the rules of a previous generation, but I don’t think that’s where we’re at any more,” said Farquharson. “There is a recognition that these newest developments are often from the hands of artists of an older generation.”
It is the fifth year the Turner prize has been exhibited outside of London. The winner of the £25,000 prize will be announced at a ceremony on 5 December, broadcast live on the BBC.
!!!@@@$$$

The buzz around Australian standup Nick Coyle’s latest offering Queen of Wolves suggested a show that not only tickles the funny bone but chills the marrow. It finds Coyle cross-dressing as Victorian governess Frances Glass. Prim, poor and desperate, she arrives at Blackbell House – out on the windy moors – only to find that her intended infant charges have died in mysterious circumstances. What follows is the story of Frances’s bid to stay alone in the haunted house for six weeks, preparing it for sale.
I may not be the best person to judge how spine-tingling the show is, given that, at the slightest suggestion of scary, I’m an instant bag of nerves. I’m the kind of comedygoer who watched this summer’s horror-comedy hit, Rob Kemp’s The Elvis Dead, through the gaps between his fingers – the OTT goriness of its source movie, Evil Dead II, being too much for my delicate constitution. So it’s far from definitive when I say that, yes, Queen of Wolves gave me the heebie-jeebies – albeit mildly. One review called it as scary as West End frightener The Woman in Black, which is way over the top. The Woman in Black petrified me; Coyle’s show raised a few goosebumps.
But that’s fine; we’re not comparing like with like. As a comedian, Coyle’s responsibility is to make us laugh – and he joins an illustrious line of comics who’ve used horror tropes to do so. The League of Gentlemen are an obvious reference point. Reece Shearsmith and Steve Pemberton’s Inside No 9 may be the standout creepy comedy of our current moment. Jeremy Dyson’s West End hit Ghost Stories tilted the balance more towards screams than laughs, but only slightly. Dyson’s co-creator Andy Nyman keeps both chills and laughter in play as director of Derren Brown’s stage work.
Nyman and Dyson developed a philosophy of spooky comedy – they call it “scun”, from scary and fun – on which Coyle, for all I know, may be drawing. But there are plenty of acts who focus exclusively on spoofing horror rather than recreating its effects – of which Garth Marenghi’s Netherhead, the 2001 Perrier award-winner that launched Richard Ayoade and Alice Lowe on to an unsuspecting world, may be the standout example.
Coyle’s show is in the former camp: it takes the mickey, yes, but it wants to take your breath away, too. And it doesn’t need to stint on one to pull off the other. Yes, it’s undermining genre convention from the off, as Frances plays chicken with the spooky thunderclaps on the soundtrack. But that irreverence coexists quite easily with the show’s more sinister effects. Haunting strings and crepuscular sounds underscore most scenes, even if you register their unsettling impact only when a sudden blackout propels you six inches out of your seat. Coyle can joke as much as he likes about the cheap special effects (“Stop! Stop pulling that string!”) but when the furniture in Blackbell House starts moving of its own accord, it feels uncanny all the same.
Of course, there’s probably a limit to how scary comedy can be. Real, gut-churning terror doesn’t have much to do with laughter. But further down the scale, being spooked and being amused can start to resemble one another. They’re both about feeling unstable, uncertain of the ground you’re standing on. They’re both about bracing yourself, consciously or otherwise, for an imminent surprise – a punchline, a severed head, a custard pie in the face, a corpse sitting bolt upright. (“A laugh is the same as a scream. It’s an outpouring of something,” as Pemberton said of Inside No 9 earlier this year.) Both comedy and horror operate on a cycle of tension generated then defused.
Watching Queen of Wolves, I kept scanning the stage, trying to anticipate and fortify myself against the next shock. That’s not such a dissimilar process to trying to second-guess a comedian – where the joke is coming from, where it’s heading. Finally, the best of Coyle’s show, for me, is the pastiche of buttoned-up Victorian womanhood. Frances’s dumbshow of revulsion is a sight to behold when the very idea of murder is mooted; and the ditty she trills when spring-cleaning Blackbell House (“O, the rabbit and the lark!”) is, given the circumstances, hilariously innocent. But the gasps are as much a part of the experience as the laughs, and they feed off one another, like a hungry demon off his virgin bride.
!!!@@@$$$

David Attenborough vividly remembers, nearly 80 years on, his first encounter with one of the worst scourges of the planet. He was a schoolboy. “I remember my headmaster, who was also my science master, saying: ‘Boys, we’ve entered a new era! We’ve entered, we’ll be proud to say, the plastic era. And what is so wonderful about this is we’ve used all our scientific ingenuity to make sure that it’s virtually indestructible. It doesn’t decay, you know, it’s wonderful.’”
Attenborough lets the last word hang in the air, eyebrows and hands raised. Then the hands fall. “Now we dump thousands of tonnes of it, every year, into the sea, and it has catastrophic effects.”
Pieces of plastic in the ocean will soon outnumber fish. They have, in the past few years, been recognised as one of the most pressing problems we face. Fish eat the plastic debris, mistaking it for food, and can choke or starve to death. The long-term effects are not yet understood, but we do know that plastic microparticles are now found in drinking water across the world, as well as throughout our oceans.
Plastics are the latest in a long line of concerns for the 91-year-old naturalist. They are a key theme of his latest work for television, the new series of The Blue Planet, which he will return to writing after our interview. Premiering at the BFI Imax in London this Wednesday – with Prince William as a special guest – the series will focus not only on the marvels of ocean life, but the threats to it, of which plastic is one of the worst. It will also deal with what people can do to help.
The arc by which plastics started off as a wonder of technology and ended up as a calamity is familiar to the veteran conservationist. It seems to be repeated endlessly: CFC aerosols and refrigerants destroying the ozone layer; pesticides killing wildlife; the fossil energies that fuelled a career based around television and exotic international travel resulting in climate change; the advances in medicine prolonging life and bringing good health, but giving us a population explosion that Attenborough fears will endanger further species, including our own.
For Attenborough, however, there must always be a message of optimism running above and beyond any warnings of doom. While he admits to sadness at the disappearances he has witnessed – “Overall, without any question, the world is not going to be as varied and as rich as it was a hundred years ago” – he insists on practical solutions. “It’s within our power, because most of the problems are created by us, and we can solve them or should be able to solve them,” he says, slapping his knee emphatically. “There are solutions, and there is cause for hope, and there’s cause for encouragement, and it isn’t all disasters.”
Take plastics. That problem could be solved “if we got together, within a decade, if not less”. It could be dealt with technically, through potential breakthroughs such as degradable plastic. “And disposing of it could be dealt with technically,” he adds. This could involve ways to collect and filter plastics from the sea, and to absorb or break down the plastics that are already there. And “stop putting plastic in the sea”.
A career spanning seven decades has earned him a loyal following of tens if not hundreds of millions of viewers, who are entranced by his delight in the beauties and savageries he witnesses. It has also given him a unique authority. When Attenborough speaks, viewers tend to trust him.
For years, he kept this trust to himself. He was associated with several conservation groups, from Flora and Fauna International to the Dragonfly Society, but did not use his public platform to make prescriptions for the planet’s future. For this, he was sometimes criticised by green activists, who wanted him to take a public lead on issues such as climate change.
It is evidently a criticism he feels a need to address, and, without prompting, he offers that in his earlier career he felt inhibited by his association with the BBC, where he was a channel controller as well as presenter, and the need to be strictly impartial. “I joined the BBC after [national service in] the navy, and there was a monopoly and it was like a civil service. So you had to be guarding against propaganda or guarding against grinding axes. And so the moment had to be judged as to when it was you suddenly started talking about conservation and when it was that you were behind the Greenpeaces of this world. They were the cutting edge and you, as a broadcaster, had to make sure that both sides of the argument were ventilated until such time as you, in your professional capacity, thought it was absolutely justified to say: ‘This is incontrovertible, this is what we’re doing to the natural world.’”
As he has felt more free to speak out, one of the more controversial areas Attenborough has addressed is population growth. Of all the world’s problems, this is the one he sees as central and most difficult to solve, although it is a tricky and unpopular cause to take up. Many high-profile environmentalists will privately agree that the rapid growth in the world’s population – now at more than 7 billion, a tripling since Attenborough was born – creates further problems, because feeding 9 billion by 2050 will be hard, and raising people out of poverty even harder, and it makes a real conundrum of giving people decent lives, opportunities and governance, while protecting dwindling natural resources and halting climate change. For a start, it sounds offensive, even patronising – particularly coming from anyone who lives a relatively privileged life in a developed country. For another, it crosses religious and other taboos. And – for many the clincher – it can look like blaming the more numerous poor of the developing world for problems emphatically not of their making.
Attenborough chooses his words slowly. “I sometimes question whether I should be more positive or more outgoing on the question. The trouble is that we don’t know the answer. What we all say is that if women are given political freedom and education and medical facilities and all the rest of it, the birth rate falls. That’s actually not the whole question. It’s more complicated than that. But it’s all I can say in response. One should be very cautious about imposing, from where I sit, regulations where other people have got the problems.”
But he will draw the links between population growth and ecological destruction. “The whole question of migration out of Africa across the Mediterranean has multiple causes and part of it is the political systems, but part of it is undoubtedly ecological systems and sociological problems. I mean the changing of the climate in Africa, the spread of the desert in Africa, the rise of political systems which oppress – all those things mount up. That’s why conservation is not any more just the affair of ecologists.”
Viewing conservation as part of the whole future of humanity, rather than a thing apart, is one of Attenborough’s great legacies. He is spearheading an effort at Cambridge University to bring all academic disciplines – “not just other botanists, not just ecologists, but law, international lawyers, psychologists, geographers, political scientists and so on” – to bear on the pressing problems of the planet. “Break down those walls and get people talking about it who wouldn’t otherwise meet,” he says.
The Cambridge Conservation Initiative is a collaboration among 10 institutions, housed in the new Sir David Attenborough building in Cambridge. Its future has just been assured by a $10m (£7.4m) endowment from Arcadia, the charitable fund of Lisbet Rausing, one of the heirs to the Tetra Pak fortune, and her husband, Peter Baldwin. It will work across all conservation and environmental issues, and its ethos mirrors Attenborough’s own polymathic approach: the idea is that people will congregate in the building, from all over the world as well as across disciplines, for the cross-fertilisation of knowledge.
Attenborough spent two years at Clare College, Cambridge, from 1945, taking a degree truncated by the war. “It was two years of unalloyed bliss,” he says. “It’s a sudden great opening of windows, if you’re a provincial grammar school boy like me. And you were with these people who had been fighter pilots and so on and you realised that the sun had come out over Europe and over you. You were just looking through intellectual windows and singing, yes, madrigals – never heard of madrigals before. Gosh, how marvellous.”
It was here, while ostensibly studying X-ray crystallography (“it was ghastly – I couldn’t understand a bar of it”) that he embarked on turning his interest in nature into the beginnings of a career. “A guest lecturer came in and talked for an hour about frogs. And all the extraordinary varieties, the beauties of frogs, how the frog’s life was dominated by how on earth they were going to rear their young, who needed water. Some did it by spinning foam and hanging it above a pond. Some by taking their eggs into their mouths. Some even did it by putting eggs in their stomachs – extraordinary. And so you sat there with your jaw slacking, just the amazement and splendours and wonders of the world.”
Keeping that sense of wonder will be what keeps us alive, he believes, if we do choose to save the planet. “If you want a comfortable life, what you do is you turn your mind, your face away from problems, of course.” He sees his responsibility as reminding people that they can and must turn towards the problems, and find solutions – in day-to-day life and in collective efforts. To do that, he believes, the most important thing is to remind people of what they have forgotten, and what is sometimes hard to remember – why we are in love with the world we live in.
“People say to me, ‘How did you first become interested in animals?’, and I look at them and I say: ‘Was there a time when you were not interested in animals?’ It’s the first sort of pleasure, delight and joy you get as a child. As a child grows, he becomes aware of all sorts of things, sex or computers and the internet and so on. But if he loses the first treasure, he’s lost something that will give him joy and delight for the rest of his life.”
!!!@@@$$$

Welcome to this week’s blog, and our roundup of your comments and photos from last week.
A good book can hit you hard – Tom Mooney says that Elizabeth Strout’s Olive Kitteridge has left him “stricken”:
It has placed the huge weight of life on my shoulders, of what is left to face, of everything that can and will go wrong, the complications of family and parenthood. Jesus, I need a lie down.
Anyway, what a superb book. Exquisitely written, full of real, believable characters, funny and desperately sad. I wouldn’t have picked this up if my wife hadn’t shoved it at me, probably because it sounds and looks a little feminine, but I’m so glad she did because I have discovered another new author.
On the subject of books that might easily have been missed, vermontlogger feels lucky to have picked up Einstein: His Life And Universe by Walter Isaacson:
I knew nothing about it until I chanced on it at a book sale and started dipping in. Apparently it was a number one bestseller, and you can see why. The writing is magnificently fluent and attractive. Some of the passages dealing with the great man’s early life do seem a bit dutiful but the author really lets his excitement show when he gets into explaining the papers on the Special and General Theories. He takes you step by step through the process that allowed Einstein to arrive at his “head-snapping” insights (all by deduction from newly postulated first principles and none by induction from the experimental data) in such a clear way that even a non-scientist like me can hold it in his brain for a fleeting second. One cosmological implication Einstein drew was that three-dimensional space can curve back on itself to create a system that is simultaneously finite and unbounded. How cool is that!
Similarly, TheLittlestRascal missed The Blade Itself first time around:
For some reason, couldn’t get past the first hundred of pages a few years back, but figured it deserved one more chance.
This brick of a book sets the scene for the following novels of the trilogy and introduces most of the key players, which include barbarians, noblemen, inquisitors, and magi. And by the time I finished the chapter aptly titled “A Road Between Two Dentists” I had already developed some strong feelings for the inquisitor. Well, of course I just had to.
It feels like our postmodern world deserves its own postmodern fantasy, and The Blade Itself seems to be one of those: lots of allusions to Discworld and pop-culture references to be picked up along the way. A fight of two rugged barbarians reminds of some classic spaghetti western, and preparation for a fencing contest resembles the best bits of Rocky. Not sure how much of that was intended, but it definitely felt good to stumble upon.
Revisiting a book has also been profitable for Glozboy:
I’m currently re-reading Stephen King’s It, 16 years after I first read it as a teenager. I remembered it being consistently scary and some of the scenes have never left me.
So far I’m 400 pages in and it hasn’t let up. An absolute masterpiece.
This is one of those books that I never want to see the film/TV series of as it would destroy my mental image, The Stand being another one.
Zola’s Germinal has also been worth rereading for paulburns:
This is the novel, way back, that had me fall in love with Zola, and I have to say it still doesn’t disappoint. This brutal tale of life on the northern French coalfields in the 1860s during a long strike is stunning. From Zola’s depiction of the everyday life of coalminers, the clash between Capital and Labour, Socialism and Anarchism at the time of the First International, and Zola’s great narrative of the course of the destructive strike, this is a sweeping portrait of some of the worst of 19th Century industrial life. Undoubtedly it is one of the greatest Victorian novels.
Finally, it’s almost Halloween, isn’t it? Let’s get in the mood with elliese:
I so love Victorian (and older) ghost stories. The best ones are exquisitely crafted, and you hover between admiration of the writer’s sheer skill and the pure terror of the tale itself. The only stumbling-block is the occasional story that hinges on the protagonist acting in a manner that’s frankly incomprehensible to modern sensibilities; poor Aubrey in Polidori’s The Vampyre is such a relentlessly moronic goop it’s hard to feel very sorry for him, and so is Ernest in The Bride of Lindorf. (What a plonker.) But I really loved most of the other stories in the Oxford University Press anthology The Vampyre and other Tales of the Macabre. It was fascinating to see the themes and anxieties of live burial and grave robbing come out in the stories again and again. Alan Cunningham’s The Master of Logan had an atmosphere and themes that reminded me of Stevenson, and Catherine Gore’s The Red Man was terrifying.
If you would like to share a photo of the book you are reading, or film your own book review, please do. Click the blue button on this page to share your video or image. I’ll include some of your posts in next week’s blog.
If you’re on Instagram and a book lover, chances are you’re already sharing beautiful pictures of books you are reading: “shelfies” or all kinds of still lifes with books as protagonists. Now, you can share your reads with us on the mobile photography platform – simply tag your pictures there with #GuardianBooks, and we’ll include a selection here. Happy reading!
!!!@@@$$$

A French philosopher, who made headlines worldwide last week after writing that he believed the boy detective Tintin was actually a girl, has said that it was a thought experiment and that the media ran it despite being told it was fake news.
“For his creator, Tintin [had] always been a young girl. An androgynous redhead with blue eyes, and probably asexual,” wrote Vincent Cespedes on Facebook last week. “Hergé would still be sniggering to find that 30 years after his death and 80 years after the first appearance of Tintin in the Land of the Soviets, the whole world still believed that his ‘tomboy’ – as he called the character in front of the few friends who were in on the joke – is well and truly a real boy.”
In the post, Cespedes cited various reasons for his belief, including Tintin being the only one to wear a kilt in Scotland in The Black Island, and his dressing a group of soldiers up as women in Tintin and the Picaros. The detective, according to Cespedes, has traits that would then have been seen as typically feminine: in The Crab With the Golden Claws, when Tintin meets a drunk Captain Haddock, he – or she – says: “You must help me. And first you must promise me to stop drinking. Think of your dignity, captain. What would your old mother say if she saw you in this state?” This “tenderness and the tears – such is the definition of femininity for Hergé”, wrote Cespedes, also citing the character’s “benevolence and unwavering sweetness”.
Despite intending his essay to be a comment on the interpretation of art, and topping it with an image labelled “Fake News”, the story was widely reported. When asked for an interview by Québec’s branch of the Huffington Post, Cespedes said that it was intended only as a philosophical conversation starter, but they ran the story regardless – and it was later picked up by UK media, including the Times and the Independent. “They prefer to spread it as if, ‘this philosopher is crazy, what the fuck?’ and not mention fake news,” Cespedes told the Guardian.
“What I have learned is that the real media needs fake news to grow. The media needs fake news. Post-truth, journalists need false journalism to grow in this new world I call cyber-modernity … All is plural. You don’t know if it is true or false – it is in the middle,” he said.
In the days after his post, he had spoken to journalists everywhere from India to Ireland, he said. “[Journalists] want my theory because it spreads their news all around the world, France, Belgium, etc. It’s very interesting to understand what game the media’s playing now, in cyber-modernity. They play a very, very, very dangerous game. They want ‘What the fuck?’ first. They need fake news to spread their news.”
Cespedes said his claim was never written to be taken up by journalists, but was instead a point to be considered by his readers, adding: “It is not my aim. I don’t want to be famous [for] this theory. I’ve got 15 books and I really don’t want to be known like that.”
While saying that his essay wasn’t intended as a joke or hoax, but “an open door, to rethink Tintin with another point of view”, Cespedes believes that the idea can still be argued. “Tintin is not a real person, Tintin is literature, art … If every child in this generation reads Tintin thinking it is a girl, in one generation Tintin becomes a girl,” he said. “It is literary, it relies on interpretation.”
Whatever Cespedes’s intentions, he might be on to something, said Benoît Peeters, a Tintin expert and Lancaster University’s visiting professor in graphic fiction and comic art. While Hergé “certainly” did not consciously intend to make Tintin a gender-neutral character, Peeters believes that there is “something neutral” about the young reporter.
“He was so young when he created Tintin – in a few hours. At that time, he was inspired by Paul, his younger brother,” said Peeters. “Officially, Tintin is a young boy, aged 17. But I believe that there is something neutral in the character. And that’s why girls can read the book with the same pleasure as boys.”
!!!@@@$$$

Following the posthumous albums Michael and Xscape, it would appear the well of unreleased Michael Jackson material is running dry. There was a flurry of excitement as a “new album” was announced earlier this year, entitled Scream, due to go on sale on 29 September. But the only new music on it is a mashed-up version of five relatively deep cuts, tacked on to the end of a compilation – one that is fascinatingly awkward in its presentation of Jackson.
He is one of the few stars to have become so big that they burn brightly long after they’ve died. He has earned more than $100m every year since his death, the jukebox musical Thriller Live still plays on the West End, and his iconography – gloves, light-up pavements, “cha’mone”, etc – remains etched in our culture. But perhaps mindful of the way that another seemingly permanent supernova, Elvis, is dimming in our collective consciousness, Jackson’s record label Epic is using Scream to repackage him for a new generation.
Timed to mine maximum Halloween coin (“Scream reflects the King of Pop’s affection for this time of the year and its themes of costumes and disguise, darkness and light, character transformations and surprise,” reads the press release), Scream’s artwork features bats and a full moon, and trades on Thriller’s celebration of cinematic horror. By framing Jackson as theatrically phantasmagoric – a kind of horror movie character – it attempts to deflect our attention from his real-life freakishness.
But it ends up underlining it all the more. The title track is not about a scream of delighted Halloween fear, but of pure frustration. One of the most interesting things about Jackson is how everything seems to tighten as his career progresses, from his dance moves to his chest and throat as he sings; initially lithe and in control on Rock With You, by the time of 1995’s Scream he is audibly contorted in his pent-up rage. Leave Me Alone is similarly wretched, a psychological study rather than a funhouse ride. Dirty Diana and Dangerous, both also included on the compilation, are howls of a different kind – those of a man repelled by his own lust. On the latter he says, “she came at me in sections” – he seems so terrified by women that he has to disassemble them.
Jackson’s use of horror movie tropes, meanwhile, is catnip for armchair psychologists. His joy in Thriller’s chorus, singing of the thrill of cinematic fear, is perhaps the joy of escapism; the scares are safely hemmed in by the four sides of a screen. But elsewhere he uses the vocabulary of horror films to directly express his personal fears. On Ghosts, he characterises jealousy as a phantom who stalks his house; Jackson himself becomes a ghost on Threatened, a fantasy of control where he moves omnipotently around a love rival. Is this man, so famously denied a childhood, having to grasp at film imagery to make sense of how he feels, in lieu of a proper grounding in emotion?
By framing these songs together, Epic have further underlined how complicated Jackson was, and further defined him as the strange, sexually fraught person that the compilation is perhaps trying to make listeners forget. The unavoidable fact is that his music was a scream, in every sense.
!!!@@@$$$

In February this year, the New York art world was abuzz with the sound of scandal. Talk was only of one thing: a New York Times front page which had posed the provocative question ‘Is the Met a great institution in decline?’. The allegations against the museum were wide-ranging: financial mismanagement, discontented staff, inappropriate office relationships, a misguided investment in modern art and an expensive obsession with digitising the collection. And the blame landed on the shoulders of one person: Thomas Campbell, the British tapestries curator, who had taken over as director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art eight years previous.
The guillotine of public criticism was sharp and swift. Just 24 days after the first of an onslaught of damning articles were published, Campbell announced his resignation from one of the most important roles in the art world. Seven months on, Campbell, who barely addressed the scandal as it was unfolding, now avidly disputes the narrative that he ran the museum into the ground, and stands by the divisive modernising agenda that eventually led to his downfall.
“I found myself, perhaps to a degree I never anticipated, being a change agent, which is ironic for someone who is a historian of European tapestries,” said Campbell with a weary laugh when first we speak in July, just days after he has formally stepped down. “Look, the Met’s a very political place, and that meant there were voices who were partisan to one agenda or another who were whipping things up. I tried very hard as director to be even-handed.”
Two of Campbell’s most public critics have been George R Goldner and former senior administrator Harold Holzer, both of whom had worked at the museum for at least two decades. Both took the stance that the Met had found itself with an impending $40m deficit in 2015 because of Campbell’s inexperience and spending on a flashy website and an expansion into contemporary art, which had compromised the museum’s scholastic expertise and ruined its finances.
Goldner gave the New York Times the infamous quote about the Met being in decline, and later told the the Art Newspaper: “Too much was done simultaneously, and too quickly. Even though the Met is a wealthy institution, this led to certain things being done less well and to a financial crunch.” He added: “A lot of people have been pushed out, some of whom were very good … other departments have felt that their concerns have been relegated to a secondary position behind contemporary art and digital media.”
Several Met insiders believe Holzer was the unnamed source in a Vanity Fair story which suggested that the former Met boss exacerbated the institution’s “budgetary looseness” in his quest to make it “new and trendy”. One board member described both Holzer and Goldner as “absolutely livid” at Campbell’s vision for the Met. “There were some real grudges being played out in the New York Times and Vanity Fair,” said one trustee.
Holzer says any suggestion that he briefed against Campbell is “ridiculous”. “I had no vendetta against Tom and to suggest I was inspired to malice by a grudge against his ‘modern-art agenda’ is ridiculous,” he said via email. Goldner did not reply when asked for comment.
Campbell, born in Singapore, raised in the UK and educated at Oxford and the Courtald Institute of Art in London, arrived at the Met as an assistant curator in 1995. “Tapestry Tom”, as he came to be known, is the first to admit that his appointment as director 14 years later came as much as a surprise to him as his colleagues. While he had curated critically acclaimed exhibitions, he was not seen as an obvious leader, nor as his predecessor Philippe de Montebello’s heir apparent.
“When they first approached me, I thought, ‘My god, you’ve got to be joking’,” Campbell recalled. “But when I thought about it, there was a logic to it. I was a mid-career curator who was passionate about the museum and its mission and had perhaps a fairly good idea of how it needed to evolve.”
Talking to the New Yorker back in 2009, de Montebello described Campbell as “solidly grounded, not an ivory-tower academic. He is extremely personable, he is very open, he is very articulate, and there is a degree of toughness in him.” Yet fast-forward eight years, and de Montebello had something very different to say about his successor.
“It has been a difficult period for the museum, one in which a lot of very good people have suffered and left involuntarily,” said de Montebello in an interview with Artnet recently. “As far as I know, there is absolutely no way the trustees could foresee that this man would basically become a totally different human being the day he was made director.”
It’s a cutting critique and Campbell visibly winces when de Montebello’s comments are brought up (the pair used to have regular lunches but haven’t spoken in months). “I’ve been portrayed as a bit of a hick in the press lately but when I took on the job I learned quickly,” he says, still noticeably stung by the widespread accusation of ineptitude. “It was absolutely a baptism of fire because my appointment was announced on 9 September 2008 and a week later Lehman brothers collapsed, and the whole world went into meltdown. The Met lost 22% of our endowment by the end of my first year.”
Campbell, who has the demeanour of a kindly headmaster, is most animated when discussing his recent attendance at a global museum conference in Hong Kong. He recounts how directors of some of the most staunchly traditional scholarly museums in the world paced on stages with mics “like TED talk presenters” and spoke of their modernising, digital ambitions to transform archaic, scholarly institutions. After his own similar vision for the Met was publicly dragged through the mud over the past few months, Campbell felt somewhat vindicated.
“It was a fascinating reflection of this moment where many museums, especially in the west, are challenged by the finances – and we’ve all been challenged to make ourselves relevant not only to existing audiences but to new audiences,” he says. “It really made me feel validated, as one of the things I’ve done here over the last eight years has been to modernise the Met.”
The tussle between the old and the new would become a defining factor of Campbell’s tenure the Met. “It was highly regarded as one of the great museums of the world but perhaps had a reputation of being a bit austere, not that friendly,” Campbell says. “I think that the museum was very stuck in its ways in some respects, both in terms of who its scholarship was being addressed to, and in the way it thought about audiences. So I was asked to digitise and modernise the museum – the board were very specific that was my mandate.”
Yet there are those that have said that Campbell became blinded by his enthusiasm for digital, an expensive infatuation that led him to throw more cash at the website and social media department than five other departments combined (at its peak it had a staff of 75 and ran at a cost of $20m – though he insists this was only temporary). These efforts did draw in younger audiences, and visitor numbers went up by a record-breaking 50%, but it was “too much, too fast”, according to Goldner. Social media appeared to swallow money once used to fund core curatorial departments, and that was not an easy sell to staff. One trustee said that had the technology board been more aware of the impending precarious financial situation of the museum, which would lead to over 100 jobs cuts, they may have been “less gung-ho to approve Campbell’s very expensive digital plans”.
Campbell has also been accused by some former staff of weak leadership and playing favourites. Managing personal and professional agendas was not Campbell’s speciality, said insiders, and he had a “tight inner circle” which was widely perceived to be impenetrable and often alienating for those not in it. “He didn’t have the broad base of support among the senior curators and the staff, and I think that is a fault and it probably goes back to a lack of prior management experience,” commented one trustee.
These accusations of favouritism became a particular problem for Campbell in 2012, when Erin Coborn, who he had appointed as his chief digital officer in 2010, filed an official complaint that Campbell was having an “inappropriate relationship” by playing favourites with another female member of staff in the digital department (Met executives investigated Coborn’s claim but he was exonerated of any wrongdoing).
When the allegations of behaving inappropriately (or as Vanity Fair salaciously put it, his “friskiness with women staff”) are put to him, Campbell is resolute that the “unfounded complaint” has been manipulated to discredit his digital agenda and tarnish him as a director. “It’s gossip and innuendo,” he says bluntly. All he did, he says, was use his position as director to “identify rainmakers, and that inevitably leads to people saying ‘this person is a favourite’ or ‘that person’s a favourite’. But there’s no grounding to it.”
Yet, if his digital programme had been the cause of some internal friction at the Met, it had nothing on Campbell’s other key agenda as director: to finally make the Met as respected in the field of modern and contemporary art as it was in its pre-20th century collection. It was an area which had long been neglected – the museum had only established a department of contemporary art in 1967 – but Campbell felt that if the Met wanted to remain relevant, it could not be ignored any longer. “Seeing modern and contemporary at the Met is different to seeing it at MoMA or at the Whitney or at Tate because you see it in this bigger context of an encyclopedic collection, so it has resonances for the contemporary but it’s also very invigorating for the historical collection.”
What would eventually prove most controversial was not the modern art itself, but the spaces where the modern art would hang. First there was the now infamous southwest wing saga, which began as a small vision of renovating the widely-panned contemporary art galleries, the Lila Acheson Wing, to make them look less like an airport lounge-cum-motel.
By 2014, this had snowballed into a major project which would see the entire southwest wing of the gallery, which included the Lila Acheson Wing, completely renovated. A design for the project was selected: an ambitious vision designed by David Chipperfield, which involved a new entrance to the museum from Central Park and would cost an eye-watering $600m.
Running parallel to this was the project of the Met Breuer, the former home to the Whitney museum, a building Campbell signed the lease for in 2011 with a vision it would become an outpost for a bolstered contemporary art collection and exhibition programme at the Met. But what had seemed like a pioneering idea instead became an extra $17m drain on already-straining resources when it opened in 2015.
At this point, a deep dive into the finances by newly appointed chief operating officer Dan Weiss had found that if internal costs that had been building for decades weren’t cut, the museum faced a possible $40m deficit. While the deficit had little to do with Campbell’s decisions as director, for a museum with a $3bn endowment, and an annual revenue of $390m, it seems hard to understand how this impending financial black hole blindsided the director and the board. Campbell’s penchant for transformative but expensive projects became a harder sell to staff, who felt they were “bearing the financial burden”, according to one observer.
“With hindsight I should probably have done less of everything, but I was only as good as the financial information I was being given,” Campbell says, in a rare concession that his agenda may have got a little out of hand.
“But the financial situation got blown up by some pundits as a crisis, which it wasn’t,” says Campbell. “It got blown out that we were in a crisis when we were actually taking steps to make sure we didn’t get into a crisis. ... But I realise it was demoralising and it generated anxiety and agitation in an institution that has always been very resistant to change.”
Jeff Rosenheim, chief photography curator at the Met, described first hand the impact the ensuing cuts had on morale at the museum. “I would say that the pain for many of us at the museum was triggered mostly by job cuts, and by seeing colleagues pushed towards early retirement when they were really not done with their careers or not ready to retire,” he says. “We – that is all of us on the staff – were not comfortable being made to feel by the board that we were part of the problem.”
By this point in 2016, the board had got cold feet about Campbell’s push for contemporary art. No big donors had instantly stepped up to contribute towards the $600m for the southwest wing, which was seen by many as a direct failure on the part of Campbell to convince the monied figures in the art world about his vision. He claims otherwise, though undoubtedly his enthusiastic public communication around the whole project was misguided. “I had not started on a large-sale fundraising campaign, I’d merely had some quiet conversations with some potential donors,” he says.
In January, a decision was made by the board to pause going forward with the wing, and instead attend to the more pressing and costly issue of replacing the skylights over the European painting galleries. The press pounced on it as proof of Campbell’s failures, and internally, staff who had pinned their hopes on finally having a fitting space for modern art were frustrated by this change of course. “I thought there was momentum behind the wing and I thought we were on a schedule for 2020 that was set by the board and the administration,” says Rosenheim. “We’d chosen an architect and I believed we were moving forward on this. So yes, I mean it’s somewhat disappointing.”
Yet, for all the internal rumblings of discord, Campbell said that by the beginning of 2017, he believed “we were over the hump, that the dust was beginning to settle”, especially as visitor numbers remained at a record high of 7 million. He therefore did not expect to see his name splashed across the front page of the New York Times on 4 February 2017, nor was prepared for the backlash that followed. For certain board trustees who had lost faith in Campbell over the past two years, the articles were final proof he, and his agenda, had failed. For Campbell it was clear that he no longer had the full support of the board, and that what he calls “some nasty personal agendas” had gained too much momentum. On 24 February, Campbell said enough was enough and he resigned, effective 1 July. The board did not fight for him to stay.
Campbell’s take on the manner in which he found himself unexpectedly unemployed is one of cautious diplomacy rather than bitterness – “obviously I’d rather this all hadn’t happened but it goes with the territory” – though the speed at which the tide turned against him, both inside the museum and out, clearly left him reeling. He also agrees with me when I suggest that no matter whose side you take, that the whole thing feels extremely juvenile and petty for a museum of the Met’s stature. Yet for all the facade of gracious defeat, he clearly thinks history will remember his agenda as progressive rather than crippling.
The search for his replacement at the Met has now begun, but Campbell, who is to spend the whole of next year on a Getty Rothschild Fellowship, says that after all the mudslinging and efforts he believes were made to discredit his modern agenda, “the board need to take stock and think about what they want for the Met. Do they still want the same modernising mandate they gave me?”
!!!@@@$$$

It’s rare for someone who makes TV documentaries to become the subject of one. But earlier this year, Tom Hanks hosted a tribute show called Ken Burns: America’s Storyteller. Colleagues, historians and even presidents praised the work of a film-maker who has consistently encouraged Americans to look to their past.
Burns made his name with The Civil War in 1990, analysing historical divisions in the US from 1861-65. Now, he burnishes his supremacy among factual film-makers by tackling the second great nation-splitting conflict that occurred exactly a century later.
The Vietnam War – co-directed by Burns and his regular collaborator, Lynn Novick – has the advantage over The Civil War of being able to feature personal testimony and TV news footage but otherwise repeats the virtues of his earlier series: authoritative commentary, exhaustive research and scrupulous negotiation of disputed facts.
Even so, the US’s intervention on behalf of south Vietnam against the communist regime in the north created rifts in US society – between left and right, young and old – that still affect politics and culture today, making this the most contentious project Burns has ever attempted.
Such is the breadth of analysis here that Burns suggests the roots of the conflict began even before the story he told in The Civil War: the opening episode (of 10) is date-stamped “1858-1961”. Viewers’ double-take at that number 18 is soothed by a typically erudite explanation of the way French colonial ambitions in south-east Asia established faultlines that shaped the US’s later intervention.
A key insight in the opening episode comes from a retired CIA operative who argues that, when the US initially intervened on behalf of the French, it fatally assumed an overlap between De Gaulle’s imperialist ambition and the US’s anti-communist paranoia. Vietnamese resistance to French interests, the old spook says, should in retrospect have been seen “as the end of the colonial era, not the start of a cold war”.
The early programmes could have done more (especially for an international audience) to explain the toxin of anti-communism in the US at the time: there is no mention of the red-hunts of Senator McCarthy, which surely did as much to create the context for the US’s misjudgment as a mistaken solidarity with French aims.
Burns and Novick are noted for the even-handedness of their histories and here, the impartiality crucially extends to Vietnamese testimony. During a sequence on a surprise US military setback early in the conflict, a former north Vietnamese guerrilla fighter remembers: “From that moment, we were no longer scared of the enemy.”
As always in Burns’s work, there’s a sense of days of conversations edited down to killer lines. A diplomat recalls US commander General Westmoreland boasting that he was killing 10 Vietnamese for every one American casualty, and being told: “But Westy, Americans don’t care about the 10, they care about the one.”
The speakers are captioned with their roles at the time: “Neil Sheehan, journalist”; “Karl Marlantes, marine.” Those intros omit to say that these witnesses went on to write definitive accounts of the war – Sheehan’s A Bright Shining Lie, Marlantes’ Matterhorn – but this literary hinterland explains the high quality of their contributions. “We thought we were an exception to history: the Americans,” says Sheehan. “We thought we would never fight a wrong war.”
In any history of conflict, the dead must also speak, and this happens extraordinarily in the third and fourth parts. An elderly US woman recalls how she once read to her young son, who was obsessed with war stories, the pre-Agincourt speech from Shakespeare’s Henry V. Her boy, Denton Crocker Jr, went into the breach in Vietnam. We know at once from the wet glint in her eyes that he didn’t come safe home, but the story of the 19-year-old’s sacrifice in a war that Americans soon disowned is wrenchingly told through his family’s memories, intercut with battle footage from the first war fought on television.
Among the illustrations is a Christmas message the Crockers recorded for a local TV station that was giving troops’ families the chance to say a festive hello to the boys over there. The inclusion of this astonishing clip is a testimony to the archive research that is the meat of any Burns piece. Treasures here include Vietnamese propaganda paintings of plummeting US helicopters and, in another impressive section, colour footage from Kennedy home movies, showing JFK preparing for a TV interview on Vietnam. A fragment of news film catches a wounded US soldier flashing at the camera a look of pleading despair that seems to implore the folks at home to resist this war. As often in the series, seconds of screen-time hint at months of work.
Even the musical score is lovingly done: subtle new compositions by Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross, avoiding the obvious emotional manipulation of Hollywood soundtracks, are interspersed with period songs from politically committed songwriters such as Bob Dylan and Paul Simon.
Occasionally, Burns’ and Novick’s approach may be too pure. Aiming for neutrality, Peter Coyote’s narration (of a script by historian Geoffrey C Ward) sometimes succumbs to stentorian monotony. And a preference for specially recorded interviews means the directors deny themselves the use, except in voiceover precis, of the revelations in The Fog of War: Eleven Lessons from the Life of Robert S McNamara, the 2003 documentary by Errol Morris in which the US defence secretary responsible for escalating US involvement in Vietnam gave an extraordinary self-flagellating account of his errors.
Vietnam is a rare war for which Britain (thanks to Harold Wilson) didn’t sign up, so UK viewers watch with a historical disinterest that could never be the case for any American. But The Vietnam War means that students of US history are – for the second time – indebted to Burns for the far better essays they will now be able to write – and so too are viewers everywhere: these are TV histories that will stand for ever in the history of TV.
The Vietnam War starts on BBC4 tonight at 9pm.
!!!@@@$$$

Elizabeth Strout once told a friend: “Kathy, if I ever return to a small town, I want you to kill me.” She wrote about this conversation here in the Guardian; alas, she didn’t give us Kathy’s response. I for one am very keen to know if Kathy still feels any obligation to her friend’s request – because, if she does, Strout’s days are numbered.
Not only has Strout bought a house in rural Maine, she also keeps coming back to small-town life in her fiction. The same places, too. In Anything Is Possible, she returns to Amgash, Illinois, the rural hometown of the narrator of her novel, My Name Is Lucy Barton. With this new collection of intertwining stories, she also revisits many of the same characters, and even scenes from last year’s excellent Booker-longlisted novel. Now we get full dramatic treatment of incidents that received passing mention as Lucy’s mother gossiped away the hours beside her daughter’s hospital bed. Some of the questions raised in the earlier novel are answered; in My Name Is Lucy Barton, her mother asks: “Now how does that feel, I’ve always wondered. To be known as a Pretty Nicely Girl?” Here, we actually get to sit with the Nicely sisters as they muse over that very same thing. (One says “horrible”, the other not.) Such elucidation has its satisfactions. But it can also be like reading the extended footnotes to a more complete novel.
Even without that sensation, it would be hard not to make comparisons. Strout may, thankfully, have forgone the clumsy meta-textual interventions that sometimes spoiled My Name Is Lucy Barton – but otherwise Anything Is Possible doesn’t quite live up to its illustrious predecessor.
One of the successes of that book was Strout’s carefully developed sense of mystery. The way she kept us hovering on the edge of understanding as she slowly, carefully teased out what caused her narrator to feel so brittle and damaged. These short stories don’t allow such gradual exposure. A sense of growing revelation and understanding is replaced by the shock of quickly revealed secrets. These fast emotional jabs have their own power, but some of their effectiveness diminishes as the collection goes on: we learn to roll with the punches. It all starts to feel a little predictable. As soon as a leading character comes on to the page (and all but one of the chapters contains a first-sentence introduction), you start to wonder about the pain in that person’s life and to brace for the reveal. If there’s talk of a parent in a story, you can generally assume said parent has a fault. If there are childhood memories, they will never be entirely happy. A marriage will have – to use one of Lucy’s favourite terms – “problems”. And over the course of the whole book, the stories can feel almost as monochrome as the giant midwestern cornfields Strout lovingly describes seeing from a car window. I began to feel like a passenger counting down the miles on those featureless Illinois highways, longing for variation, perhaps a skyscraper or mountain.
Sometimes, Strout does aim to surprise us, but unfortunately the more unusual stories also tend to be the least effective. The weakest is about a rich couple who use webcams to spy on a houseguest. Jay, the husband, is (as everyone also points out) “creepy”. So creepy that you question why any stranger would consent to stay in the house, let alone keep coming back night after night – as the story requires, in order to get to its overwrought denouement.
But more often, the stories feel sincere, human and moving. There’s no doubt that Strout is a fine and expressive line-by-line writer. There are some exquisite moments: during one particularly tense scene, a character looks at a rug he has recently bought and: “The rug seemed to holler at him, You are such a dope for buying me.” It’s a fine moment of humour and light in a dark, claustrophobic scene. But it’s also a moment that reveals sad volumes about the character’s insecurity and wry sense of self. There are dozens of other lines that seem similarly quiet and innocuous – until they burst in your head like star showers. Those alone make it worth making the long drive to this small town again … in spite of the occasionally disappointing scenery.
!!!@@@$$$

In a concrete bunker situated miles below civilisation lives a crack team of scientists dedicated to one thing and one thing only: ruining Peter Rabbit as comprehensively as they possibly can.
Parents of young children might be fooled into thinking that their mission has already been a success. After all, there’s already a CBeebies Peter Rabbit adaptation that paints the sedate, 115-year-old Beatrix Potter character as a go-get-’em adventurer whose escapades are typically soundtracked by a series of nightmarish sub-Levellers songs about standing your ground and laughing in the face of danger.
But the scientists persisted. Yes, they’d hugely damaged the Peter Rabbit brand, but they hadn’t yet irreparably ruined it. Then one day, one of the scientists called his colleagues around. Shaking with the power of his own awful imagination, he pointed at what he’d written on his blackboard. It read “3D live-action/CGI animated adventure comedy movie”. The other scientists gasped, but one – emboldened by this hideous new vision – went one step further. He grabbed a piece of chalk and, trembling, added “Starring James Corden” beneath it. The scientists applauded. One started vomiting. They’d done it.
At least based on its trailer, the Peter Rabbit film appears to have been aggressively engineered to make people sad. Even more so than other kids’ properties that have been given needless updates over the years, the Peter Rabbit film looks like the result of some blisteringly inept manhandling. Sure, Thunderbirds might have opted for a live-action remake directed by Riker from Star Trek. And, sure, The Magic Roundabout might have self-immolated twice over, casting Robbie Williams as Doogal in the UK version and rebranding entirely as Doogal (‘Things are about to get hairy!’) in America. And, obviously, Postman Pat was crushed into dust the moment someone made a film about him entering X Factor and fighting off a legion of robot cats.
But there’s something genuinely harrowing about the sight of Peter Rabbit – gentle, Edwardian Peter Rabbit – thoughtlessly injuring some birds, or grabbing a pile of lettuce leaves and making it rain like a banker in a stripclub, or literally twerking. No joke, all of these things happen in the trailer. There’s even a moment where a badger hurls a hedgehog at a dartboard, and it’s so much like the dwarf-throwing scene from The Wolf of Wall Street that you’re left with the incontrovertible feeling that this entire venture was put together by people who genuinely hate Peter Rabbit.
Just look at Mr McGregor. In all previous versions he’s been a villain – his primary objective has always been to cook Peter Rabbit in a pie – but in this trailer he’s the only sympathetic figure. He’s the guy who comes home to find his house trashed by Peter Rabbit, and his despair is palpable. “Not again,” he’d say if he hadn’t been so utterly numbed by trauma. That’s how much of a dick this Peter Rabbit is. He actually makes you side for the baddie. For shame.
The fact that Corden – who, thanks to his roles in Trolls, The Emoji Movie and now this, seems like a man hellbent on screwing up as many kids as he can – voices Peter Rabbit just underlines it all. Something has gone terribly, terribly wrong along the way here.
Beatrix Potter was a famous stickler for protecting her work – she refused to sell the Peter Rabbit rights to Walt Disney – so there is no way on Earth that she’d have ever given the green light to a slow-motion car crash like this. But now the floodgates are open, let’s really go for it. Let’s give Tom Kitten a machine gun and a thirst for vengeance. Let’s give Squirrel Nutkin a rocketpack and a sleeve tattoo. We’ve gone this far already. Why not finish the job?
!!!@@@$$$

Calista Flockhart bounced on to our screens in 1997, wearing oversized pyjamas, mouth permanently pouted in a kiss or ooh-ing along to her favourite tune, as David E Kelley’s pint-sized lawyer Ally McBeal. She opened doors with her bottom while carrying too many packages, was frequently caught out talking and/or dancing to herself when she thought no one was looking, and her reaction to finding someone attractive was usually to fall over.
She sounds annoying, but to millions of women in their 20s, she was the diminutive embodiment of our inner angst: about how to be a grown up when we felt like children; how to function single when every indication from the universe told us to couple up. Time magazine tagged her as one of the death knells of feminism, which seems harsh. But she sure was hung up on those boys. Well, one in particular.
McBeal was a legal eagle at Boston firm Cage & Fish and the cast was jammed with comic talent – the show launched the careers of Jane Krakowski, Lucy Liu and Portia de Rossi to name but three. Plus Greg Germann as Richard Fish and Peter MacNicol as John Cage formed my favourite, quip-trading TV double act of the decade.
They all got to shine, but it was the neurotic McBeal – who could barely keep her mind on the job, so busy was she swinging from the cubicles in the same-sex bathrooms and dancing away her cares about fertility – who really owned this show. In Ally’s universe, weird things happened. Hallucinations, dance routines, dream sequences, everything was possible. No 90s veteran will ever erase from their minds the image of that ghostly dancing baby who used to visit Ally’s apartment late at night, heralded by strange tribal chanting before throwing some sassy moves on her carpet and disappearing again. Yes, Ally McBeal was weird and that’s why we loved it. A show willing to portray humans as pleasingly flawed and prone to bad decisions, but somehow celebrating that, rather than passing judgment.
Then, midway through season three, the love of Ally’s life, Billy Thomas, dropped dead of a brain tumour while declaring his lifelong adoration for everyone’s favourite kooky twiglet in the middle of a court hearing, even though he’d gone on to marry someone else. Game over. The grief didn’t sit well, apart from allowing Billy to pop back and haunt Ally now and again.
Kelley tried repeatedly to reintroduce romantic tension into her life, first with Robert Downey Jr as Larry Paul. Although he was charming and cute and every bit as quirky as the legal pixie, he committed the unforgivable sin of recruiting Sting to sing Every Breath You Take to her during one of her many visits to the piano bar near work where such things were commonplace.
Larry was written out of the show shortly thereafter, but because of Downey Jr’s substance difficulties rather than crimes against music. In the last gasps, Jon Bon Jovi with a haircut was wheeled out to bedazzle Ally with his soulful sincerity, but no one’s heart was really in it by then and he didn’t even make it to season’s end. The show fizzled after five seasons when it should have kablooey-ed loudly and proudly after three. It’s always a shame when the party goes on too long. You’re drunk, McBeal. Go home.
!!!@@@$$$

Like many actors who turn to writing, Sophie Wu has a knack for nifty dialogue. Her debut play is an engaging, quirky 80-minute piece about the kinship of oddballs and the disruptiveness of innocence. It shows enough promise to make you hope that Wu in future pushes herself further.
Wu’s setting is the west coast of Scotland where Jim, a 32-year-old loner who collects crustaceans and acts as a luckless tourist guide, is being badgered by his 19-year-old girlfriend, Pocahontas, to settle down. She dreams of marriage, a job as a mortgage adviser and a four-bedroom house: the fish-loving Jim is more thrilled by the prospect of a world crustacean congress in Frankfurt.
What changes their lives is the unexpected arrival of an English weirdo, Ramona, whom Jim has not seen for 15 years, since the two of them lost their virginity on a beach while awaiting a rare meteor shower. The best scenes are those that flash back to that first brief encounter.
Both characters are a bit like the hermit crabs Jim assiduously collects and Wu writes well about the affinity between natural outsiders: Ramona and Jim are two solitaries who discover a shared passion for Enya’s Orinoco Flow and make love with a fumbling awkwardness that leads Ramona to briskly conclude: “That’s sex done and dusted.” Too many kooks can sometimes spoil the theatrical broth but, while Wu understands the appeal of eccentric oddities, she also empathises with Pocahontas who, despite her extravagant name, craves only a life of normality in a family home with black-and-white pictures of New York skylines.
Ramona’s confession, when it comes, is predictable and the play has an anecdotal quality. The dialogue, however, is sharp and Mel Hillyard’s production, which switches easily between past and present, is well cast. Ruby Bentall as Ramona offers a clinically accurate study of someone who seeks to hide their social isolation under a surface cool.
Joe Bannister is equally good at conveying Jim’s haplessness, especially as he sees the Highland tourists he seeks to enthuse drifting away. Amy Lennox, latterly seen in Lazarus and Kinky Boots, also catches the pathos of the girlfriend who longs only for a life of numbing routine. It’s not exactly an earth-shaker but, as a dramatist, there is clearly a good deal of wit to Wu.

• At the Bush theatre, London, until 21 October. Box office: 020-8743 5050.
!!!@@@$$$

Jennifer Lopez has donated $1m in aid to the Puerto Rico recovery effort, following the devastating effects of hurricanes Irma and Maria.
Lopez, who is of Puerto Rican parentage and was born in the Bronx, has said she will source the money from her Las Vegas residency shows. On a video posted on her Instagram account, Lopez revealed that she had not been able to reach family members living on the island.
Please help us spread the word to help our fellow sisters and brothers in need #UnitedForPuertoRico #UnidosPorPuertoRico🇵🇷
A post shared by Jennifer Lopez (@jlo) on Sep 21, 2017 at 9:24pm PDT
She is co-chairing the New York state recovery effort, and announced her donation at a press conference on 24 September alongside the New York governor Andrew Cuomo, who had just returned from the island. They announced a scheme that encourages New York residents to donate goods, and aims to provide healthcare support.
Having already been battered by Hurricane Irma, on 20 September the island was hit by Hurricane Maria, the strongest storm to reach Puerto Rico in more than 80 years, with winds of 155mph and more than 20 inches of rain. It left the island’s 3.5m residents without power, a situation that could take months to rectify. The death toll currently stands at 10, but is expected to rise.
Lopez is currently performing the seventh leg of her Las Vegas residency, All I Have, which began in January 2016. The most successful Vegas residency of last year, the shows have grossed more than $50m to date.
!!!@@@$$$

Wild Beasts, the four-piece British band whose literate guitar pop took them from indie oddity to festival headliner, have split up after 13 years together.
In a letter posted on Twitter, they wrote: “The four of us have decided, for our own reasons and in our own ways, that it is now time to leave this orbit. We’re care takers to something precious and don’t want to have it diminish as we move forwards in our lives.” They hinted at farewell concerts, saying: “Before we go, we’d like to celebrate with you.”
pic.twitter.com/WTGi0JBS6D
They added: “We’ve created something quite of our own and built a body of work which we stand by as heartfelt and true,” and thanked fans for their “love and energy”.
The band formed in Kendal, Cumbria, in 2004, and stood out from the “landfill indie” of the era thanks to the flamboyant falsetto of frontman Hayden Thorpe, often placed next to the baritone of fellow vocalist Tom Fleming. After the energetic and rickety Limbo, Panto (2008), they honed their sound into sensual soft rock for second album Two Dancers, which earned them a Mercury prize nomination. They released another three albums – Smother (2011), Present Tense (2014) and Boy King (2016) – which saw them embrace ever more electronic production, with the latter two reaching the Top 10.
The band were noted for their lyrics, which frequently reflected on masculinity and sex. “We openly admit to being obsessed with sex,” Fleming told the Guardian in 2011. “We say things really bluntly at times – we like to be earthy.” They also wore their literary references and poetic lyricism with pride, railing against other bands for “dumbing down” their music.
!!!@@@$$$

Actor Jan Tříska, who moved to the US after being banned by Czechoslovakia’s communist regime, has died after falling from Prague’s iconic Charles Bridge. He was 80.
Prague theatre director Jan Hrušínský confirmed Tříska’s death on Monday. The actor died in Prague’s military hospital overnight due to injuries from the fall on Saturday, the circumstances of which remain unclear.
Tříska emigrated in 1977 after signing a human rights manifesto inspired by his close friend, dissident playwright Václav Havel. He settled in Los Angeles and appeared in dozens of movies, including Ragtime, The Karate Kid Part III and The People vs Larry Flynt, which was directed by his fellow Czech Miloš Forman. Tříska also appeared on television, in series such as Quantum Leap and Highlander: The Series, and on stage, starring as the Devil in a New York Public Theater adaptation of The Master and Margarita. Tříska’s films were banned from Czechoslovakian cinemas and TV screens until the fall of communism in 1989.
After the anti-communist Velvet Revolution led by Havel, Tříska regularly returned home to appear in stage productions and films, including taking a lead role in 1991 comedy The Elementary School, which was nominated for an Academy Award.
In the UK the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14. Other international suicide helplines can be found at befrienders.org.
!!!@@@$$$

The Silent Heavens
Here I wander about, and here I mournfully ponder:Weary to me is the sun, weary the coming of night:Here is captivity still, there would be captivity yonder:Like to myself are the rest, smitten is all with a blight.
Much I complain of my state to my own heart heavily beating:Much to the stars I complain: much to the universe cold;The stars that of old were fixed, in spheres their courses repeating;Solidly once were they fixed, and with them their spheres were rolled.
Then through the space of the spheres to the steadfast empyreanEcho on echo to Earth answered her manifold cries:Earth was the centre of things, and the threne of all, or the paean,Bearing hell in her heart, on her bosom all life that dies.
If they were fixed, as of old, in their firmament solid and vaulted,Then might the echo of woe or of laughter reverberate thence:Nor my voice alone, but to them all voices exalted,Should with due answer be met, murmuring sweet to the sense.
But they roll on their way through the void, the inane unretentive:Past them all voices stream into the echoless space.Where is the pitying grace, that once was prayer’s incentive,Where is the ear that heard, and the face that once answered to face?
In forgotten-poet-recovery mood this week, I was tempted to choose Richard Watson Dixon’s autumnal lyric, Song – the one that, melodiously and vividly, begins: “The feathers of the willow / Are half of them turned yellow …” But Song is not only Dixon’s least-forgotten poem: it’s usually the only representation of his work in the traditional anthologies. It’s wise to be cautious about perpetuating such choices – even the seemingly good ones. The reduction of a highly productive and verbally inventive Victorian poet to a one-trick pony may be a kindness, of course, but it needs examination. It might be a curse, entrenching the writer beyond hope of fuller rereading and possible reassessment.
Apart from Song, Dixon is known for his exchange of correspondence with Gerard Manley Hopkins. Hopkins was an admirer, though not an uncritical one: he found Dixon’s vocabulary so obscure at times he claimed to need the services of a Dixonary. But he was alert to the senior poet’s achievements and dismayed by their neglect. I was curious to find more poems that might be interesting and accessible to a contemporary reader, and which, like Song, would hint at the qualities Hopkins admired.
The Silent Heavens appeared in 1905, in Dixon’s last published collection, edited by Robert Bridges, five years after his friend’s death. It’s an autumnal poem in macrocosm, responding to the larger effects of time and evolving knowledge.
Mourning the cosmology of celestial spheres, Dixon is looking a long way over his shoulder. Perhaps, for a classicist and clergyman, such cosmologies remain stupendously engrained and unforgettable and their failure of credibility seems recent. But it might also be assumed that Dixon’s despair has been reinforced by Darwinism and other scientific developments nearer his own time.
That cosmology and theology, man and God, no longer meet in the harmonious structure of the universe might even connect with the disorientations of old age. In that particular autumn, points of fixity become essential, not only as the source of intellectual reassurance, but as physical markers.
At the heart of the poem, and energising its linguistic procedure, is the concept of echo. This is not the echo as natural phenomenon. It’s perhaps closer to the “echo” device, as used in such poems as George Herbert’s Heaven, in which the echo forms a new word, and therefore suggests an answer. Psalm-like in the use of parallelism, Dixon’s “song” is much concerned with the lost communality of voices. The sense of human belonging depended on the now-inaccessible fixed stars and their spheres, seen in stanza four as receptive to all the Earth’s voices.
The search in Dixon’s poem is for a response that would be a reflection of selfhood, as the last quatrain memorably pleads: “Where is the ear that heard, and the face that once answered to face?” This primary need seems to account for the melodic impulse, the incantatory pitch whose origins are strong personal feeling. The roll of the hexameter line is steady and fluent. Originally, lines two and four of each quatrain were indented, an apparently visual effect that heightens the linear music. The ghost of a mid-line caesura doesn’t destroy the vitality. It gives Dixon an extra little structure around which to bounce those gentle volleys of internal rhyme (wander, ponder; here, weary; old, rolled; space, grace, etc).
In the third line, second hemistich, a stress falls on “would” – an iambic emphasis that seems to heighten the shocked surprise of the thought that “captivity” and “weariness” will be duplicated in the heavens: “Here is captivity still, there would be captivity yonder …” The longing for an echo becomes central to stanza three, but the sounds of echo are continuously deployed throughout the poem.
Looking inwards becomes as hopeless a quest as searching outwards, “to the universe cold”. The self-directed first line of stanza two suggests the Hopkins sonnet beginning: “My own heart let me more have pity on.”
“Much I complain of my state to my own heart heavily beating,” Dixon laments, the line’s regularity demonstrating temporal entrapment. A heart “heavily beating” is beset by heavy grief. It’s also a relentlessly audible pump, working perhaps at the edge of its limits. This is a kind of “leaden echo” of the body listening to itself.
Poetry itself is wired to Earth, and the loss of power is brought about by the loss of the waves of echoes which “answered her manifold cries.” Earth was “the threne of all, and the paean” – the songs of lament and celebration. The last two lines of this stanza have an enraged accuracy: “Bearing hell in her heart, on her bosom all life that dies.”
In the last stanza, too, anger is palpable (“the inane unretentive”). This quatrain never loses power. If, sometimes, Dixon has closed a stanza on a phrase that suggests easy access to an unsurprising rhyme, he does the opposite here. The loss of the attentive ear and face, brilliantly simple and physical images of human connection, creates a psychological desert. It would be a mistake to read this as loss of faith. It’s partly an old man’s lament for silenced friends (including ideas that were friends), but, above all, it seems to express a poet’s despair at his lack of attentive readers.
!!!@@@$$$

Kenneth MacMillan holds a peculiarly revered position within the culture of the Royal Ballet. Many junior dancers say that it’s the principal roles within his story ballets – Romeo and Juliet, Mayerling and Manon – to which they most aspire. Older dancers acknowledge that performing the MacMillan repertory has not only shaped them profoundly as artists but has stamped a collective identity on the company. MacMillan’s works may be several decades old, the Royal may be about to commemorate the 25th anniversary of his death, but still there are elements of his style – his richly textured realism and his raw-edged characterisation – that dancers claim they find in no other choreographer.
Sarah Lamb, who joined the Royal from Boston Ballet in 2004, recalls how disorientating it was to perform MacMillan for the first time. As she learned the role of Juliet she found that all her ballerina habits were being systematically challenged. “I’d been trained in the Russian style, we’d been taught to always look pretty, but now I was being told ‘Don’t point your feet here!’ Kenneth wanted you to just stand. At first I was really obstinate. I didn’t see why I couldn’t emote while I was still pointing my feet. Now that I’ve been dancing his work for 12 seasons I understand the kind of naturalism he was aiming for. I realise he was trying to bring the same revolution to ballet that there had been in acting – moving away from the studied and the technical to something more visceral.”
MacMillan could always make ballet look beautiful. During the balcony scene of Romeo and Juliet (1965) his heroine appears almost evanescent – her little jumps are bubbles of air, her body flies weightless into Romeo’s arms. But at other points she’s required to look gauche, even ugly. When arguing with her parents she’s a stroppy adolescent; when she steels herself to take the Friar’s potion her body convulses so violently that she looks as though she might vomit across the stage.
By the time MacMillan came to choreograph Mayerling in 1978, he was pushing far more combatively against the rules of classical artifice. The work is a portrait of Rudolf, heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne. In representing the decadence of the late 19th-century Hapsburgs and Rudolf’s psychotic spiral into abusiveness and addiction, MacMillan wrenched the language to physical extremes – from the alienated brutality with which Rudolf manhandles his wife to the last-gasp, greedy sensuality of his duets with Mary Vetsera, his dark angel.
For the ballet’s male principal, the role of Rudolf is as exhausting mentally as it is physically. “You have to find things in yourself that you didn’t know were there,” says Edward Watson. “It’s terrifying and it’s exhilarating.”
As a senior principal, Watson has grown up through the MacMillan repertory. “They have affected the way I dance, the way I think about ballet,” he says. Even when the choreography has no obvious storyline it require dancers to reach for some kind of emotional truth or psychological hinterland. “Nothing is ever completely abstract in MacMillan’s work,” he says. “There’s always a tension between you and the music, you and the other people on stage. You always have to be thinking about how you’re going to create that atmosphere. How you’re going to be holding your shoulders, the way you go into an arabesque, fast or slow.”
Watson’s view is shared by Marianela Nuñez. Although she’s regarded as one of the company’s purest classical ballerinas – radiant, precise and magisterial in the repertories of Petipa, Balanchine or Ashton – she also cherishes the more visceral and seditious works of Macmillan: “They enable you to open yourself up and expose all kind of inner emotions.”
Dancers point to the fact that MacMillan’s characters are always complicated and flawed, allowing for an unusual freedom of interpretation. “So much is up to you,” says Lamb. “MacMillan’s genius was to give dancers the right to their own intelligence and autonomy.” One of her own choicest roles is the venal, manipulative Countess Larisch, a former mistress of Rudolf who effectively becomes his pimp. But for Lamb, Larisch is also a victim. “She’s part of this great wheel of society that is coming to end, she’s trying to survive as best as she can. And she is vulnerable because she really loves Rudolf.” There’s a similar leeway in how dancers can portray Manon (gullible girl or greedy woman) or even Rudolf (sadist or sufferer). It’s not just that MacMillan’s ballets encourage dancers to make moral and intellectual choices; they also permit an exceptional degree of physical spontaneity on stage.
William Tuckett, a choreographer in his own right and also one of the Royal’s most distinguished character artists, says that compared with the rigorously delineated choreography of Frederick Ashton or John Cranko, MacMillan allows his dancers “masses of wiggle room” – particularly in “the bits between the steps”. The way a character enters the stage, the gait of their walk, the glances and gestures that make up their interaction with other characters – all these are left unspecified. “MacMillan just provided these very broad stage directions,” explains Tuckett, “so you’re allowed to respond to the other people on stage in a very immediate, actor-based way. He galvanised the art of ballet from prescription to freedom.”
Different dancers respond to that freedom in different ways. Tuckett recalls that Sylvie Guillem could be positively unnerving. When she was dancing Manon he was often cast as the Gaoler in the ballet’s brutal prison scene. That scene ends with the Gaoler forcing Manon on to her knees to fellate him, and during one performance Guillem made herself almost impossible to catch and subdue. “She was being quite naughty that night,” chortles Tuckett, “and she really legged it around the stage. She ran in completely the opposite direction from what we’d rehearsed, I kept trying to grab her and by the end we were having to reconfigure the choreography just to catch up with the music.”
For Lamb, too, that window of spontaneity is crucial: “It never feels like a reproduction on stage, but as if it’s actually happening. I can put so much of myself into a performance that afterwards, when the curtain has gone down, I can find it difficult to return back to myself. A part of me has been left behind on the stage.”
The dancers of the Royal Ballet do not, of course, have an exclusive claim to MacMillan. For their commemorative programme this autumn they’ll be sharing the stage of the Opera House with dancers from English National Ballet, Northern Ballet Scottish Ballet and Birmingham Royal Ballet (who have their own historic association with MacMillan).
But the Royal do perform more MacMillan than anyone else. Many dancers believe that the interpretative demands that his ballets make on the Royal have an impact on how they perform every other ballet in the repertory.
Tuckett attributes his famously maverick performances of Drosselmeyer, controller of the magical events in The Nutcracker, to the instinct for transgression he learned from MacMillan. Those traits are exhibited through the ranks, all way down to the corps de ballet. Whether they’re members of the royal court in Swan Lake or villagers in Giselle, it’s natural for the corps to flesh out their anonymous roles with subtly individual colour.
Sarah Lamb says she only realised how singular a quality this was when she danced Giselle as a guest with a Russian company. “It was so different from the Royal where everyone is genuinely feeling their character on stage. All the dancers in the Russian corps were going through the same motions – now we look concerned, now we turn, now we put our hand to our face. It felt so fake.”
“It’s lovely, the way that the Royal has kept its acting aesthetic,” affirms Tuckett. “The idea that you’re making a world on stage and that even the smallest roles are crucial.” Yet as strongly as he admires MacMillan and acknowledges the choreographer’s influence on his own career, Tuckett does believe there’s a danger of complacency in the degree to which MacMillan is venerated. He points out that there were limitations and flaws in the great man’s work – not least in his presentation of women who, for all their intriguing complexities, are almost never the agents of their own stories and almost always the victims.
Tuckett also points out that MacMillan was never able to make as radical a break from convention as his contemporary Peter Brook achieved in theatre. Despite the choreographer’s deviations from the classical language, his exploration of darkly adult material and his occasional importing of experimental elements like text and film, MacMillan left much for later generations to do in modernising the form of the story ballet.
“Our way of doing narrative still hasn’t really moved beyond the tropes of the 19th century,” says Tuckett, who thinks younger choreographers should be encouraged to challenge themselves, their dancers and their audience more robustly. “MacMillan gave ballet a massive kick in the arse but we owe it to him, now, to develop things much further.”
!!!@@@$$$

Pharrell Williams has become the latest music star to show solidarity with NFL players, by sharing in their “take a knee” protest against racial injustice in the US.
Performing in Charlottesville, Virginia, the site of far-right marches in August, the R&B singer and rapper knelt in front of the crowd, saying: “If I want to get on my knees right now for the people of my city, for the people of my state, that’s what this flag is for”, a reference to the stars and stripes, and to freedom of speech. He also called for “freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of belief, freedom to live.”
The protest has been taken up since August last year by African American sports stars, who kneel and stay silent rather than sing the national anthem during sporting events, to highlight racism against black Americans. Numerous players from the Jacksonville Jaguars and Baltimore Ravens staged the protest during their game at Wembley stadium this weekend.
Stevie Wonder also made the protest during a concert this weekend, saying: “Tonight, I’m taking a knee for America, but not just one knee – I’m taking both knees. Both knees in prayer for our planet, our future, our leaders of the world and our globe. Amen.”
Fellow soul singer John Legend wrote in an op-ed for Slate: “Protest is patriotic. Protest has played a critically important role in elevating the voices of the most vulnerable in our nation ... They are the definition of patriotism ... Every time someone takes a knee or raises a fist, viewers must grapple with the why – with the uncomfortable reality that our country daily marginalizes thousands of people in impoverished communities.”
The wave of “take a knee” protests has infuriated President Trump, who told a rally over the weekend: “Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out! He’s fired. He’s fired!’” On Twitter, he encouraged Americans to boycott the NFL until players stopped protesting.
Other stars from outside the sport have rallied to support the protestors. TV host Ellen DeGeneres wrote on Twitter: “As a football fan, I am proud of the NFL players today. Nothing is more American than the right to peacefully protest.” Singer John Mayer said that “Trump’s comments re NFL further prove he’s hellbent on poisoning all aspects of American life,” while actor Olivia Wilde kneeled with the cast of Broadway show 1984 following a performance.
!!!@@@$$$

In 1970 Joan Didion – a good novelist but one of America’s great essayists – sentenced herself to a hardship posting. She volunteered to spend a month aimlessly on the road in Louisiana, Alabama and Mississippi, thinking that her trip “might be a piece”. She never wrote the article; now, luckily, her notes have been unearthed, along with some later musings about California, where she then lived. The result is a little book with a chilling power of prediction. In the intervening decades, the isolated, somnolent rednecks Didion encounters – people who even back then before cable news fed on information that was “fifth-hand, and mythicised in the handing down” – acquired an inordinate political power because of demographic shifts; last year they had their revenge when, in collusion with rust-begrimed losers from the midwest, they elected a president.
Coming from California, Didion sees the south as a metaphorical landscape, America’s heart of darkness. In the west, the frontier ethic erased history and equalised people, but the south remains colonial, obsessed with disparities of “race, class, heritage”. Wilderness on the western plains and in the mountains is redemptive; in the south it is rank, malevolent, encroaching everywhere.
The tour begins with a death: in New Orleans, a woman slumps forward over the wheel of her car, which veers into a tree. Nobody but Didion pays much attention; she might be in “a pre-Colombian city”, where individual deaths hardly mattered, given the appetite of indigenous deities for human sacrifice. Or is this already a postmortem place? Didion watches old people on balconies in the French Quarter, staring as they gently creak in their rocking chairs. “They have mastered the art of the motionless”, and perhaps the chairs are imperceptibly rocking cadavers to and fro.
The atmosphere throughout is creepily gothic. Light is sulphurous, absorbed by the surfaces it strikes. The torrid, syrupy air is unbreathable. Alligators thrash in the bayous, snakes writhe in pits among the rustling skins they have shed, armadillo shells crackle underfoot. Algae breed in a motel’s concrete swimming pool, and a cigarette butt bobs jauntily in the chlorinated water. An old man with a hearing aid stands in the middle of a scorching street and fires a shotgun into the sky. Didion, more fearlessly reportorial than I’d have been, asks what he’s shooting at. “Pi-eagins,” he drawls. “In this one demented afternoon Mississippi lost much of its power to astonish me,” she comments. Latin American magic realism is here trounced by the crazed reality of the deep south.
Imagine if your address was Basic City, Mississippi, a town so baseless that it’s not on the map
No wonder Didion suffers from a sense of disorientation that leaves her feeling torpid, as if underwater: at one point she is so desperate for contact with mainstream America that she visits a shopping mall. Southern place names induce an existential bewilderment. Imagine if your address was Basic City, Mississippi, a town so baseless that it’s not on the map. Would you trust yourself to cross the Demopolis Rooster Bridge over the Tombigbee river? And how about driving down a thoroughfare called, in apt homage to the segregationist governor of Alabama, the George C Wallace White Way? American optimism is hard to crush, so another nowhereville in Mississippi is called Onward, with no exclamation mark. Nearby, somewhat unconvincingly, is a farm entitled Reality Plantation.
A steamy afternoon in a laundromat, where the other customers teach her how to cheat the dryer out of coins, convinces Didion that “all women are sisters in misery”. Despite this twinge of compassion, there’s enough catty snobbery here to explain why Trumptards resent the coastal elites who belittle them. Didion is exasperated by the southern habit of eating dinner before sunset, and amused by the need to smuggle liquor into teetotal country clubs. She admires a black girl with an afro and a clinging jersey whose deportment has an inimitable “NY-LA” haughtiness. The permed local beldames regard Didion with suspicion: she has “long straight hair, not seen in the south among respectable women past the age of 14”. I’d say she was lucky to escape a lynch mob of suburban housewives in curlers, fresh from the beauty shop.
Didion has two timely points to make about the region. One is that the civil war remains unfinished business, because southerners – who spend holiday weekends re-enacting its battles on the sites where they occurred – still dispute the outcome: hence the current fuss over Confederate statues. The second, in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, is that the sodden, swampy gulf and delta were never meant for human habitation. They belong to the winds and waters, which are welcome to them. Noticing the wreckage of recent tropical storms, including a rusty oil tanker broken in half offshore, Didion reflects that “the coast was reverting to its natural state”.
At last she scuttles back to San Francisco, though even there America’s innate instability haunts her. Tectonic plates grate along the San Andreas fault, sharks cruise beneath the Golden Gate, and the Pacific, as she ominously says, “still trembles in its bowl”. The south at least has blood on the ground, which gives it historical ballast; in the west the ground is abandoned altogether by blissed-out, irreligiously mystical individuals. Didion’s fears are more pertinent now than they were almost 50 years ago when she jotted them down. Is there no hope for the fractious, disunited US, with its schismatic geology, its mad weather, and its madder belief in its manifest destiny?
• South and West: From a Notebook by Joan Didion is published by 4th Estate (£10). To order a copy for £8.50 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

Police cars can’t fly, artificial snakes are not commercially available, and the exodus to off-world colonies has not yet begun, but we’re already living in the world of Blade Runner – chronologically, at least. The original movie is set in 2019. Rutger Hauer’s replicant-in-chief has been activated since January 2016. He might be watching attack ships off the shoulder of Orion as we speak.
Looking ahead, we’re entering the uncomfortable era when many “futuristic” movies are set – usually of the dystopian, apocalyptic, “you really don’t want it to turn out like this” variety. If they’re anything to go by, we’ll be lucky if we make it to 2049, when the forthcoming Blade Runner sequel is set.
According to The Running Man, for example, the economy collapses this year. Art and communications are outlawed, and the United States is a repressive police state in thrall to sadistic reality TV – pure fantasy of course. Rollerball, set in 2018, predicts a similarly grim outcome. Meanwhile, horror series The Purge also begins this year: a night of violence and anarchy sanctioned by a totalitarian, civil rights-quashing US government – a climate eerily reminiscent of the Charlottesville protests.
More remote, but equally worrying, is anime par excellence Akira, set in 2019, when Tokyo has been destroyed. By ominous coincidence, its replacement, Neo-Tokyo, is due to host the 2020 Olympics – just like the real city will, assuming it’s still there.
But don’t worry: according to the sci-fi calendar, we’ve only got five years until global warming and overpopulation have us all eating Soylent Green anyway. And if we stick that out, we might get to 2026, the age of Metropolis. Even in the 1920s, the proto-sci-fi epic was laying out a pretty similar dystopia to that of Blade Runner, though its happy ending would be more heartening if we weren’t straight into Children of Men in 2027, by which time humanity is infertile and Britain is rounding up refugees in camps. It’s almost as if they foresaw Brexit.
Are the dates arbitrary? Fritz Lang merely set Metropolis 100 years on. Philip K Dick’s source novel for Blade Runner, written in 1968, was originally set in 1992. Or could it be that these sci-fi visionaries subconsciously intuited that this was about as long as modern society had? The way-off future is often brighter (Star Trek is in the 23rd century), but the most effective dystopias are ones we can imagine living long enough to experience, and therefore do something to avoid.
Blade Runner 2049 is in cinemas on 6 October
!!!@@@$$$

“So I need to know: Are you ready to be transformed?” shouts Scott Ross to the 900-strong crowd in the auditorium. They respond with raucous applause. To them, Ross is a legend. He ran George Lucas’s visual effects company, Industrial Light & Magic (ILM) in the 1980s, then founded his own Oscar-winning effects firm with James Cameron. His audience is largely made up of young people looking to follow in his footsteps: animators, video game designers, concept artists, illustrators and effects specialists. These are the people who build the digital worlds where we’re increasingly spending our leisure time – in movies, games, and virtual reality. They are transforming culture and they’ve come here to transform themselves, even if they’re not exactly sure what into.
Welcome to Trojan Horse Was a Unicorn. If the name sounds odd, that seems to be the idea. It takes place in Troia, Portugal, an idyllic peninsula just south of Lisbon. Its organisers describe it as “Burning Man meets TED Talks”, though it’s equally a spiritual retreat. Students and young professionals come here from across the world, as do big industry names looking to hire new talent, make connections and softly promote their brands – brands such as Disney, DreamWorks, Pixar, Google, Oculus (the Facebook-owned VR company), King (the makers of Candy Crush Saga) and Unity (makers of the pre-eminent game engine).
“It’s not a fair, it’s not a conference, it’s not a festival. There’s nothing to buy. It’s really an experience,” says André Luís, the 36-year-old creative force behind THU, as it’s often abbreviated. “It is one week where you come to change your life, and understand what you are doing.” Founder of the country’s first computer graphics school, Luís launched the event five years ago, frustrated at the difficulty Portuguese students had in getting recognition from companies abroad. The first year, 100 people came. Last year it was 600. This year, most of the €600 tickets sold out in 24 hours.
This is a booming industry, and a global one. All but three of the 20 highest-grossing movies this year so far are effects movies. Until the 2000s, VFX was primarily a Hollywood concern; now, thanks largely to the Harry Potter movies, the UK is one of the world’s centres, employing some 6,000 people. ILM (which is now owned by Disney) opened its London office four years ago. It now employs 500 people, supervising big titles such as the Star Wars series, Avengers: Age of Ultron and Jurassic World 2.
Much of what we see in big-budget movies is now digital, even in movies we assume to be “live action”. CGI is not just used for mythical creatures and sci-fi worlds but also costumes, props, sets, crowds, buildings, cities. Gravity, for example, whose Oscar-winning effects were produced in London, was entirely CGI apart from the actors. Technically, it is animation. Movies such as Disney’s recent, uncannily photorealistic Jungle Book point to a digital future indistinguishable from the real thing. All of this depends on human artists like the people who come to THU. What appears on screen begins in their minds and sketchbooks. The movie and gaming industries could not exist without them.
As well as giving this dispersed community a place to commune, THU is giving them an identity, a mythology even. They call themselves “the Tribe” and their logo is an ancient Greek shield. Ticket-buyers are “Warriors”, the industry insiders are “Knights”. These 40-odd knights give talks and lead workshops, but easy social mixing is equally encouraged, be that a drink in the open-air bar, a karaoke competition or a midnight “virtual reality battle”. They also manage expectations, in an industry where hopeful, creative individuals could find themselves animating a troll’s eyebrow for several months.
This year’s knights include Paul Briggs, who oversaw animation on Disney’s Frozen, anime director Shinji Aramaki, and British concept artist Rob Bliss, who started as an illustrator on comic book 2000AD and went on to design iconic characters such as Heath Ledger’s Joker in The Dark Knight, and Dobby from the Harry Potter movies.
Digital art is still frowned upon by fine artists, with its emphasis on sci-fi, fantasy, cartoons and comic books. This is not art with a capital “a”. These artists – mostly male, it has to be said – skew more towards dedicated misfits than louche bohemians. But as fine art becomes more hands-off and conceptual, digital artists are ironically sustaining the classical disciplines of drawing, painting and sculpture. It is a common sight at THU to see people scribbling in sketchbooks, though they’re often equally versed in 3D computer modelling or sculpting in VR. They prize technical skill and individuality, but their work is often a means to an end and a form of communication.
“The future is imagery,” says Ross. “Language no longer works in a global society. The Chinese guy doesn’t understand me, I don’t understand the guy in Japan, but if we start showing images that becomes the global language. And in the world of digital art you’re able to move and manipulate art globally. The future, we believe, is about the digital artist.”
In contrast to the dystopian futures its tribe members often consume and create, THU aims to put this community on a gently utopian path. Some have already been transformed. Spanish animation colleagues Jaime Maestro and Nadia Ruiz came to THU three years ago, got inspired, fell in love with each other, quit their jobs and founded a new company based along similar principles of ethical capitalism and respect for artists. Based in Valencia, they have a team of 40 artists. Their company is called La Tribu – Spanish for “The Tribe”. “What we wanted in the studio was to keep the same feeling we had here,” says Maestro.
Westworld (1973)The first use of computer-generated imagery (CGI) in a major movie. To render the viewpoint of Yul Bryner’s android, the team scanned and treated two minutes of footage, resulting in a low-resolution pixellation effect that looks quaint today, but took months to perfect.
Young Sherlock Holmes (1985)The Steven Spielberg-produced children’s adventure features the first fully CGI character: a knight made of panes of stained glass, who leaps off a church window and waves his sword for 30 seconds. The scene was created by future Pixar founder John Lasseter.
Toy Story (1995)The first entirely computer-animated feature, which paved the way with its marriage of technological and storytelling sophistication. Possibly the first time CGI characters generated as much empathy as live-action ones.
The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001)A watershed in motion capture – using the movements of a human actor (Andy Serkis) to give a CGI character (Gollum) uncanny expressivity. The technique now powers entire movies, such as this year’s War for the Planet of the Apes.
The Jungle Book (2016)Proof of how far CGI has come since Toy Story. Apart from Mowgli, everything in the movie is computer-generated, but it is almost indistinguishable from reality. Disney is now giving other old titles the same treatment, such as Aladdin, Pinocchio and Dumbo.
!!!@@@$$$

Alan Hollinghurst’s sixth novel, The Sparsholt Affair, opens in Oxford during the second world war and ends in London in 2012. As with its predecessor, The Stranger’s Child (2011), much of the action takes place offstage, in the interstices between chapters. The chapters themselves are spent watching as these events make their repercussions felt in the lives of Hollinghurst’s rich cast of characters. This is a book about gay life, about art, about family, but most of all it’s about the remorseless passage of time.
The 1940 section of the book is narrated by a bright but not quite brilliant undergraduate called Freddie Green. He has a circle of luminous friends at Oxford, among them the artist Peter Goyle and the louche Evert Dax, the son of a prominent novelist. If the opening section of The Stranger’s Child doffed its cap to EM Forster and Henry James, the line between tribute and pastiche never quite resolved, this is Hollinghurst showing that he can do an Oxford novel as well as Waugh. He’s wonderful on the “beautiful delay” of university life, on the cloisters and the quadrangles, tentative intimacies building between friends and lovers.
We first meet David Sparsholt in “that brief time between sunset and blackout when you could see into other people’s rooms”. Freddie, Peter and Evert look over towards the handsome new student, with his “glorious head, like a Roman gladiator”. As we get to know Sparsholt, it strikes us that he’s not a typical Hollinghurst figure. He claims to have no time for reading, is studying engineering, engaged to the sensible Connie, and sees Oxford as a regrettable interlude before he can join the RAF. We soon recognise, though, that while Sparsholt may lack poetry, he’s not the strait-laced square that at first he seemed.
The book’s second section opens on a Sparsholt family holiday in the early 1960s. This leaping forward in time is a slightly unsettling dynamic, familiar from The Stranger’s Child (and from 2004’s Man Booker-winning The Line of Beauty). There’s an inevitable feeling of sorrow that comes with the end of each section – I’d have been happy with a whole novel set amid the dreaming spires. In each new narrative world we have to act as sleuths, working out what has happened in the years we’ve skipped over, establishing where our sympathies now lie, what has been gained and lost.
We soon gather the facts about us. Sparsholt had a good war, married Connie, is now a wealthy industrialist. He has a son, Johnny, whose third-person perspective we inhabit for this section and most of the rest of the novel. There are some lovely adolescent passages in which Johnny fantasises over his French exchange, Bastien. David seems tightly wound and reserved, only happy when in the company of his friend, Clifford, who (with his wife Norma) is also on the holiday.
Then, and again in the gap between chapters, the “Sparsholt affair” itself occurs. It would be a spoiler to reveal too much here, but the date – 1966 – is crucial, coming just before the decriminalisation of homosexuality the following year. The next chapter takes place in the 1970s of rolling blackouts and three-day weeks. The grown-up Johnny Sparsholt is gay, dyslexic, the owner of a fine mane of hair. Through his work as a picture restorer, he finds himself increasingly drawn to Evert Dax’s home in Cranley Gardens. It’s here that a society called the Memo Club meet, friends from Oxford who turn obsessively over the events of their own shared past.
As one would expect of Hollinghurst, the greatest prose stylist writing in English today, this is a book full of glorious sentences, perhaps his most beautiful novel yet. During a blackout, we read: “Outside, the street lights were glowing at half-power, arrested in the dim early mauve of their sequence. People peered quickly at each other as they passed from shadow to shadow, in doubt, and then brief solidarity.” Later, Johnny looks out of a Chelsea window over the Thames: “Beyond the traffic, between the plane trees, lay the grey expanse of the river, the cold wellings and streakings of its currents.” Hollinghurst is so good on “the teasing oddity and secret connectedness of London life” as Johnny (and the reader) is drawn deeper and deeper into the clandestine worlds of the city.
We realise that this, like its predecessor (and, indeed, Hollinghurst’s first novel, the exquisite The Swimming Pool Library), is a story about two generations of gay men, a tale that turns on the pivot of 1967. The last two sections of the book are called Losses and Consolations, each word carrying its own ironic edge. It’s about subterranean narratives of gay life, some of which bubble to the surface, others remaining for ever concealed. We follow Johnny Sparsholt in and out of love, witness him becoming a father (he donates sperm to a lesbian friend), see him happily settled, bereaved, a successful artist, a sixtysomething adrift in the world of online dating. We watch as the scandal of the Sparsholt affair slowly fades. There’s always something elegiac about the movement of time in a Hollinghurst novel, but here it feels less bleak than the vast emptiness at the end of The Line of Beauty, the bitchy literary narrowing at the close of The Stranger’s Child.
Evert Dax’s father, AV, scarcely features in this novel, but he’s important nonetheless. He’s an “unshakably serious” author, admired without being enjoyed (even by his son). The Sparsholt Affair is a rebuke to that kind of writing. This is an unashamedly readable novel, one that goes out of its way to please; indeed it feels occasionally like Hollinghurst is trying to house all the successful elements of his previous books under the roof of one novel. It’s funnier, more warm-hearted, less waspish than any of his books so far, but still undoubtedly the work of a master.
• The Sparsholt Affair by Alan Hollinghurst is published by Picador (£20). To order a copy for £17 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

Australia likes to refer to its battlefield dead, especially in the first and second world wars, as “the fallen” whose bodies, if found, were “laid to rest” in picturesque, peaceful cemeteries of blonde statuary and rosemary bush.
Our politicians invest significantly in commemorating them (some $600m-plus alone for first world war centenary events), and into finding, identifying and reburying those whose bodies the mud may surrender many decades later.
So it is surprising to find the skull of a first world war Australian Anzac soldier, replete with the shocking facial injuries that killed him a century ago this week, featured online in an American medical museum’s grisly collection of sometimes freakish exhibits.
The skull, part of the collection of the Mütter Museum at the College of Physicians in Philadelphia, tells a shocking and tragic story of battlefield violence and intolerable physical suffering that official commemoration – with its almost ecclesiastical language of the fighting Anzac “spirit, the “fallen” and their “sacrifice” – all too often overlooks.
On 28 September 1917, the Anzac was shot in the mouth during the Battle of Polygon Wood (known also as the Third Ypres, part of the Battle of Passchendaele) in Belgium, and his right jaw destroyed by shrapnel while another bullet – still visible in his skull – struck his left sinus.
The museum’s explainer reads:
This Australian soldier’s skull has extensive damage caused by bullet wounds sustained in the Battle of Passchendale (or Third Ypres, Battle of Polygon Wood) in the First World War. He was shot on September 28, 1917. Most of the damage was caused by a lead bullet that entered the mouth and passed through the palate and right eye. Shrapnel destroyed the ascending ramus of the right jaw, and another bullet, visible here, struck the left frontal sinus.
Philadelphia opthalmologist and surgeon WT Shoemaker treated this soldier at a battlefield hospital in France. This soldier survived his initial injuries and treatments. But, five days after his injuries, blind and disoriented, he pulled out the bandage materials in his mouth that packed the wounds. He bled to death.
It says Shoemaker donated the “Adult skull with ballistic trauma” to the museum in 1917, making possible an inference, of course, that the opthalmologist removed the head from the battlefield hospital. It’s hard to imagine what, if any, consent was involved.
Click on the icon reading “OUCH” and the illustration highlights the shrapnel damage to the soldier’s jaw, or, on the one reading “THE END”, to see a close up of the hole in his cheek that had been packed with bandage. “Pulling out the material that packed this space is what killed our soldier,” it explains.
The Anzac skull certainly tells a story of a terrible battlefield death. But as is so often the way when human remains become institutional collection items, it is stripped of human identity and past beyond the moments of injury and death. It is objectified by death, not what life – rich and interesting or otherwise – preceded it.
And, so, unfortunately, we know precious little about who this Anzac is. We don’t have his name or know who his family is or where he came from. Was he Indigenous or white? Even had he contemplated dying in war (what soldier who volunteers to go off and fight does not?) could he ever have imagined that his head would become a museum collection item and an object of popular curiosity?
If the Mütter Museum knows any of this, it is not letting on.
Despite my repeated requests, the museum has not detailed how: it acquired the Australian’s head; whether the rest of his body is in the museum or buried in a war cemetery; if the museum is privy to the dead man’s identity and whether the skull has been on temporary or permanent public display.
It is, in fact, likely that the rest of the body is buried at either Polygon Wood Cemetery or the nearby Buttes New British Cemetery. In the past decade the bodies of several Anzacs who died in fighting around Polygon Wood have been unearthed on local properties. Several have been identified using DNA techniques. All have been officially re-buried with either “known unto God” headstones or memorials bearing their re-established identities.
It is understood that the Australian Army’s office of Unrecovered War Casualties – which is mandated with recovering and identifying unaccounted for military personnel, is aware of the Mütter Museum’s Anzac skull and is making inquiries, possibly through the Australian Embassy in Washington.
Mütter describes itself as “America’s finest museum of medical history” which “displays its beautifully preserved collections of anatomical specimens, models, and medical instruments in a 19th-century ‘cabinet museum’ setting. The museum helps the public understand the mysteries and beauty of the human body and to appreciate the history of diagnosis and treatment of disease”.
The Anzac skull is part of a collection that also includes “the soap lady” (a body exhumed in Philadelphia in 1875), Albert Einstein’s brain, Dr Joseph Hyrtl’s human skull collection, a plaster cast and the conjoined liver of “Siamese twins” Chang and Eng Bunker, the jaw tumour of President Grover Cleveland, and hundreds of body parts that illustrate disease and terrible war injuries.
The fourth and fifth divisions of the Australian Imperial Force suffered more than 5,700 casualties at the Battle of Polygon Wood, which began on 26 September 1917. It was the most devastating year of the war for the AIF; 12,000 Australians died in the extended battle of Passchendaele alone and 30,000, mostly on the western front, for the year.
From a population of less than 5 million in 1914, some 324,000 Australians enlisted and served overseas, and 61,720 died. Most are buried in official war graves close to the battlefields or field hospitals where they died. But tragically some 18,000 who died on the European western front were either never found or could not be identified at death.
The Anzac whose skull is displayed by Mütter would be ranked with the missing even though the museum might well be in a position to help name him due to the medical and personnel records that would have formed part of his battlefield treatment.
Meanwhile, the display of the skull is anomalous with official Australian policies to remove from public display and repatriate human remains (overwhelmingly belonging to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander ancestors) that are held by foreign collecting institutions – mostly museums and medical schools.
The National Museum of Australia has the remains of about 500 individuals that it has repatriated to Australia from foreign institutions but, for various reasons mostly to do with unestablished identity, has been unable to return to country.
The South Australian Museum, which has the largest collection of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander material culture in the world, holds the remains of several thousand Indigenous people.
The government has dedicated minimal resources and energy to the identification and repatriation of Indigenous remains, however. As Australia prepares to commemorate the AIF’s actions at Passchendaele and Polygon Wood this week, the official response to the Mütter Anzac skull display will, therefore, be most illuminating.
!!!@@@$$$

An image of a drunken Oxford party that Michael Ondaatje clipped from a magazine and stuck into a notebook would, years later, inspire a scene in The English Patient, according to the novelist’s archives, which have just been acquired by the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas at Austin.
Ondaatje, in an interview with the Center’s director Stephen Ennis, said he writes around four drafts of a book by hand before moving it on to a typewriter or computer and then “reworking it, printing it out, rewriting it by hand”.
He added: “During those early stages of handwriting the novels, I sometimes need a few visual breaks along the way. I might stick in someone’s poem fragment, just a few lines, or perhaps a stray visual image of a party at Oxford where quite a few are drunk that I came across in a magazine. There might be perhaps some subliminal influence.”
The Sri Lanka-born, Canadian writer said that particular photo inspired part of the book that was later rewritten as a scene where titular character László de Almásy imagines meeting his love interest, Katharine Clifton, when she was young, “long before he actually met her”. Ondaatje said: “When I came upon that long-ago notebook years later — that was the first time I realised and recognised its influence on a scene in The English Patient.”
Running to more than 90 boxes, Ondaatje’s archives include the dozens of handwritten notebooks that he uses to write his novels, his hard-to-decipher handwriting peppered with images he has inserted into the pages as he writes. Heavily annotated drafts and notebooks for works including The English Patient, along with novels such as his latest, 2011’s The Cat’s Table, have been collected, along with drafts for his poetry collections and correspondence with authors including Alice Munro, Margaret Atwood and John Berger.
His papers also include address books, calendars, photographs, speeches, scripts, as well as correspondence with actors Juliette Binoche, Willem Dafoe, Ralph Fiennes and Kristin Scott Thomas about the film of The English Patient.
Ennis called Ondaatje a “master stylist” in both poetry and prose. “Displaced by history, the inhabitants of [his] novels often find their most stable home in language”.
Ondaatje, whose next novel – Warlight, following two siblings in the aftermath of the blitz – was announced this week, said that his notebooks each reflect a specific stage in the making of his novels. “I always enjoy the look of these handwritten books more than a typed manuscript. Ideally I would like to publish a novel that way, but my handwriting is terrible, unreadable, even to me sometimes,” he told Ennis.
Ondaatje, who lives in Toronto, said that he chose the University of Texas for his archive following a visit to the Ransom Center. “[I] was amazed at their photography collection, then more recently I came back and was shown the literary archive, that gathering of wonders – Robert Browning’s address book, a draft of Faulkner’s Light in August, a letter from Tennyson to Whitman – who knew!”
!!!@@@$$$

Where are most British novels set? Well, the smart money would be on London. But once you get out of the capital, I’d lay a bet on Cornwall being the landscape that inspires the biggest number of fictional backdrops.
The rugged, dramatic coastline will have a lot to do with it, of course. Winston Graham’s Ross Poldark, recently seen on telly equipped with smouldering good looks and preposterous abs, would not carry half as many hearts aloft if his frequent (and, one suspects, often unnecessary) horseback gallops across the cliffs weren’t framed by the sun setting over the storm-lashed Atlantic. Daphne du Maurier has lured many a literary traveller to the county, just as Joss Merlyn and his murderous wreckers guided unwary ships on to the rocks in Jamaica Inn, or the siren call of the foreboding Manderley (in reality Du Maurier’s home Menabilly, near Fowey) in Rebecca.
With a lighter touch, Lelant native Rosamunde Pilcher’s books have painted a picture of Cornwall spanning the generations crossed by family sagas such as 1987’s The Shell Seekers, while Virginia Woolf, though not born in the county, admitted to being “incredibly and incurably romantic about Cornwall”. Her novel To the Lighthouse took as its inspiration the view from Talland House in St Ives, where Woolf holidayed as a child, whose vista opens on Godrevy Lighthouse in the bay.
But, of course, every UK county has its attendant classics. Perhaps a truer measure of how deeply a place is embedded in fiction would gauge how many contemporary novels are set in a place. By that yardstick, Cornwall is in very rude literary health. I holidayed in St Ives over the summer, and beat a path – as does anyone of taste and decency – to the St Ives Bookseller on Fore Street, the narrow, winding thoroughfare that runs behind the harbour front. In addition to the well-curated selection of commercial and literary fiction packed into its small space, it also carries a wide range of locally set fiction.
And boy, is there a lot of it. A huge amount. Liz Fenwick is the queen – or certainly one of them – of the contemporary Cornish novel: A Cornish Affair, The Cornish House, A Cornish Stranger, Under a Cornish Sky … Fenwick knows her market, and has nailed it utterly. But while Fenwick’s gathering up readers like the fishermen with their lobster pots, she’s certainly not alone. Television presenter Fern Britton has forged a new career as a purveyor of Cornish lit, including The Postcard, A Seaside Affair and A Good Catch. Similarly, fellow journalist-turned-TV presenter-turned-recommender-of-books Judy Finnigan is treading a darker coastal path, with her Cornwall-set novels, including the spooky Eloise and thriller I Do Not Sleep, wearing an appreciation of Du Maurier lightly on their sleeves.
There’s no great mystery in Cornwall’s prominence: people like to go on holiday, when they like to read, when they might enjoy the verisimilitude of a novel set nearby. And the Cornish landscape provides that beauty, that sense of myth, that romance in every sense of the word, that is just perfect as the location for any story.
But the Cornish lit trend isn’t seasonal, like ice-cream parlours or mackerel fishing. The industry keeps going throughout the year. Indeed, there are a rash of variations on the theme of “A Cornish Christmas”, proving that romance is as likely to bloom under grey skies as it is a bright Cornish summer. Indeed, a quick search for “Cornish” on Amazon brings up 40-odd titles due out between now and the onset of summer 2018, from feelgood romances to cosy crime murders to sweeping family sagas.
Publishers love a trend, of course: we saw it in the proliferation of “girl” titles two or three years ago, around Gillian Flynn’s Gone Girl and Paula Hawkins’s The Girl on the Train. “Cornish” novels might be a slightly more niche trend – but if only someone could find a way to combine the two, they’d be on to a surefire bestseller. Scone Girl, perhaps?
!!!@@@$$$

Over the course of two decades, the Marvel vs Capcom franchise has mutated into a sprawling crazy quilt of exuberant brawling. Look for a unifying theme and it seems to be loopy excess, with overflowing character rosters, screen-filling hyper combos and a fondness for mob-handed tag-team battles. “Gonna take you for a ride!” declared Marvel vs Capcom 2’s jazzy selection screen ear-worm, and if the shield-chucking, hellfire-hosing action could occasionally be chaotic to the point of confusion, it was certainly never dull.
Six years on from Ultimate Marvel vs Capcom (a buffed-up version of the third instalment that boosted its warrior headcount to an impressive 48) and here comes a new challenger. In Marvel Vs Capcom Infinite, the conflict implied in the title has become inextricable. A diabolical team-up by Marvel’s tetchy AI zealot Ultron and Mega Man’s lantern-jawed nemesis Sigma has forcibly fused the two corporate universes together, creating an uncanny hybrid dimension.
In the Saturday morning cartoon-worthy story mode, the combined villain Ultron Sigma has also unleashed a cyborg virus to assimilate all organic life, forcing Captain America, Mega Man X, Chun-Li and a dolly mixture of other pugilistic heroes to fight a desperate rearguard action. The third game’s inky art style of thick black outlines has been replaced with more of a Toys R Us aesthetic. The pool of 30 playable characters from which you select your two-person team resembles a rubbery, wipe-clean action figure line.
The revised Marvel roster mirrors the priorities of its cinematic universe, so the Infinite incarnation of Iron Man is now blatantly modelled on Robert Downey Jr’s smart-alecky show-off. Pair him with Spider-Man and he tags his partner in with a cute callback to Captain America: Civil War (“Underoos!”) Rising stars the Guardians of the Galaxy are emphatically in – Gamora is a lithe, lethal multi-weapon specialist while Rocket Raccoon can request thumping help from Groot – while X-Men and Fantastic Four-related characters, their IP currently licensed by rival studios, are demonstrably out.
Previous Marvel vs Capcom games featured an easy input mode so beginners could leapfrog ahead to spectacular special moves and finishers without having to memorise every quarter-turn and double-button press. Infinite folds this training-wheels approach into the game proper. Batter the light-punch button and you automatically unleash an eight-hit combo, while one straightforward button-press triggers a hyper combo across the entire roster. Mastering this simple repertoire means new players can select any character confident they can at least pull off the basics.
While this pivot toward accessibility does not automatically mean a lack of depth, it does inevitably flatten out Ultimate’s personality. The new infinity stone mechanic – with six selectable cosmic gems adding additional special moves – means any character can be specced with a dash, a fireball or a paralysing throw. If Ultimate Marvel vs Capcom rejoiced in the eccentricities and mismatches of its sprawling roster, Infinite seems to want to turn everyone into an all-rounder.
More seriously, after creating such an inviting on-ramp for knockabout play, Infinite whiffs its advanced schooling. After the basic tutorial, character-specific training missions jump straight from simple special move workouts to intimidatingly long input strings. For players not already fluent in the genre’s lingua franca of cross-ups and cancels, there is nothing to explain how to read or react your opponent. While this feels like a missed opportunity, what is actually unforgivable is that Infinite’s move lists are locked to characters facing right. This is irritating if you happen to jump over your opponent and want to quickly pause-check a mighty finisher. It is actively excruciating if you are locally playing as left-facing player two.
The wacky story mode is a welcome short-term diversion but Infinite really comes to life in the wild. For those rightly intimidated by online play, there is a dedicated and so far seemingly robust Beginners League to help players begin their ascent from 15th to 1st rank. But even in this nominal shallow end, ingenious beatdown specialists are already combining disparate characters and their signature movies into elaborate punishments. Jedah, the regal vampire from Darkstalkers with a diabolical arsenal of jaggy projectile attacks, is clearly an early favourite, while the option to tag in Ryu for a jumbo-sized vertical fireball seems to be a popular grace note on which to end extended combos.
These dedicated players who have already pushed past Infinite’s muddled orientation will likely elevate the game to new heights, while the emphasis on pick-up-and-play means it is also possible for dabblers to extract a lot of fun from the giddy free-for-all. But it does feel like something has been lost along the way in the push for slimmed-down accessibility. Smashing two dimensions together should be the stuff of ambitious prog-rock albums, but Infinite seems determined to steer towards the middle of the road.
Capcom; PS4 (version tested)/Xbox One/PC; £35; Pegi rating: 12+
!!!@@@$$$

God, that’s not an easy watch, the first 10 minutes or so of The Child in Time (BBC1). First, Stephen (Benedict Cumberbatch) returns home in a police car and goes inside to tell his wife, Julie (Kelly Macdonald), the worst news in the world: that their four-year-old daughter Kate has disappeared. “She was there,” he says. “She was there, she was just there, she was right there.”
Next, we’re a few years down the line. Stephen, a writer of children’s books as well as a member of a government childcare committee, is trying – inevitably not entirely successfully – to carry on with some kind of life. Without Julie, however, who, also inevitably, now lives separately. How can a marriage ever survive that? Not just the loss and the pain, but the blame and the guilt, too.
And then we go back, an hour or two before the opening scene, to the moment itself, in the supermarket. A lovely trolley zoom for Kate, down an empty aisle, then check out and distraction, wait for Daddy …
Every parent will recognise it, the where-are-they moment, the sudden blind panic, the quickening of the heart rate and tightening of the stomach that goes with it. This way? No. Over here? Faster, more and more desperate. Think! Yes, outside, always outside first because that’s the most frightening possibility, but then, when you can’t see them out there, back in, shouting and appealing for help. “Kate? Kate! Has anyone seen a little girl, a four-year-old girl, she was wearing a yellow coat, she’s called Kate ...”
And then they’re there, in the fruit aisle, eating a few sneaky grapes, or with a kindly – but ever-so-slightly disapproving – stranger, and you’re suddenly overcome with relief, and a little bit of crossness, and embarrassment, but mostly a big wave of love. Except for the one time in a million when then they’re not there, ever again, except in a vision – like the little girl in the yellow coat, Kate.
It’s not just the situation but Cumberbatch’s performance that makes it so agonising. Physically so. I felt the stress, the tightening and quickening. I felt sick. It’s a brutal portrayal of panic and guilt, and then a world falling silently apart. Brilliant by Macdonald, too, of a mother’s loss, possibly profounder still. And try as she might, she is unable not to blame him, even if she also still loves him.
All 220 pages of an Ian McEwan novel into an hour-and-a-half adaption doesn’t all go, stuff gets left out. There’s no Thatcherite backdrop here; the new PM (played by Elliot Levey) is more like an amalgam of Cameron and Blair, again soulless, and the government’s attitudes to education and children are archaic and depressing, more about discipline than development. That’s fine, it transfers, even if it lacks McEwan’s rage and is a less political thing.
Stephen’s best mate and publisher, Charles, survives the adaptation process. It’s an odd portrayal by Stephen Campbell Moore, but then odd too is Charles’s breakdown and reversion to his early years, even if it plays into the theme of childhood.
One casualty of the journey to television is Charles’s wife, Thelma. She’s still here, but just as a wife and a friend, stripped of her quantum physicist profession (that itself is a kind of step back in time, no?). With that go her theories on – and discussions with Stephen about – space and time, which, although baffling, tied in with the book’s time warps and visions. Maybe 90 minutes isn’t enough time to explore the nature and mysteries of time.
The TV drama is a simpler thing then, of course it is. But it’s still a deeply affecting portrait of loss and what that does to love. It is painful, but not entirely without hope, given time.
To Antiques Roadshow (BBC1), at Castle Howard off Brideshead Revisited and celebrating its ruby anniversary – 40 years – with emeralds. Not that this fella who brought them in knew; he thought the green stones on a gold necklace were jade. No, emeralds, says Joanna Hardy. And the pearls are freshwater baroque ones, the chain is 15-carat gold, it was made in about 1915 … yeah, all right, never mind about that, how much?
“I think, at auction,” says Joanna, “I reckon you would get around three to five … thousand pounds!”
The people who go on Antiques Roadshow aren’t allowed to be disappointed. But I am: IS THAT ALL?
!!!@@@$$$

PSVR, CCP Games, cert: 3★★★★
VR is a perfect medium for eSports, and while the likes of the excellent Starblood Arena offer immersive but fantastic shooter experiences, Sparc blurs the line with real, physical, sport activity. The game transports players into a Tron-like world of sci-fi dodgeball matches. The aim is to sling a projectile down an enclosed arena, scoring points by tagging opponents’ bodies or landing a ball in their goal, all while deflecting their attempts at doing likewise. Using two PlayStation Move controllers to throw or, using a virtual shield, deflect, forces players to evade and repel the ricocheting orbs, increasing in speed all the while. Once accustomed to the mechanics – not hard, as Sparc is smooth and intuitive – it’s a veritable workout, and a fun one. The only real caveat is a lack of single-player content, beyond a training mode and some skill challenges. However, with three online multi-player modes and a genuine air of competitiveness, it’s forgiven. Extraordinary fun. MK
Nintendo Switch, MixedBag, cert: 7★★★★
On first inspection, Forma.8 seems like a traditional platform game, sporting vast, 2D levels filled with ledges, caves and, yes, the platforms famously established by gaming icons such as Mario and Sonic. Yet venture further and the game reveals so much more. Players assume the role of a floating probe sent to a world without – at first – an explicit objective but without many abilities to call on. Far from being a minimalist experience, however, Forma.8 opens up to reveal a vast and varied exploration-based puzzle game filled with fallen companions to rescue. Flying through its world solving environmental conundrums and outwitting enemies can swing from sedate to stressful in moments, and progress comes at a magnificent pace. The quiet tone delivers a game that occasionally feels empty rather than atmospheric, but Forma.8, previously released on other platforms, remains an adventure for the Switch well worth embarking on. WF
PS4, Sony Interactive Entertainment, cert: 3★★★★
Decades of elitism and gender-bias have not done golf any favours in promoting itself as the most accessible of sports. It may not be entirely fair but converting critics to its charms is a tough old task, a role Everybody’s Golf has embraced wholeheartedly.
Now 20 years old, the series has – as the title suggests – long endeavoured to make the game as attractive to as wide an audience as possible. Fortunately, the gameplay mechanisms and rules of real golf translate superbly into video game form, and just as you don’t have to like tennis to enjoy Pong, the latest Everybody’s Golf offers an experience that should delight gamers, regardless of their perception of the real sport. The game’s greatest achievement is making the sport inclusive, rowdy and energetic. Quality course design, instinctive controls and a brilliantly diverse online offering all add up to make this one of the best golf video games. A few more single-player modes would be ideal, but overall Everybody’s Golf is a wonderful way to make a mass audience want to spoil their virtual walk. WF
!!!@@@$$$

The standing ovation began before the final blackout was over, well before the curtain call started. The audience rose like a wave and crested into cheers. The reason for it was clear: Esther Hannaford.
Hannaford plays Carole King in Beautiful, the musical about the singer’s life and work, and it’s near impossible to imagine that that this musical ever existed without her. She is a revelation: an actor who breaks your heart and mends it again in a performance that contains natural vulnerability, joy and strength. In the finale, Hannaford – as King at Carnegie Hall in 1971 – sings the titular song and in this performance, full-voiced and joyous, you feel the depth of success hard won. You don’t expect to find depth of this kind in a greatest hits show.
Beautiful is a bio-jukebox musical of the standard contemporary formula – think Jersey Boys with an exposed heart and additional warmth – and it moves, under the direction of Marc Bruni, at a reasonable clip. We meet King (born Carole Klein) at 16, on the verge of selling her first song to Don Kirshner (Mike McLeish) at 50s and 60s label Aldon Music. Before we know it, she’s pregnant to budding lyricist and would-be playwright Gerry Goffin (Josh Piterman). In a whirlwind they are married, King gives birth to her first child and the duo begin to make a name for themselves as hit-makers.
But an album as rich as 1971’s influential and best-selling Tapestry could never have been written without pain and there is plenty of it in store for King. While she and Goffin steadily build their career, he feels increasingly trapped by his family life and it’s not long before the marriage becomes an unhappy one.
These tensions are leavened at times, as they always are, by friends: in this case it’s the chic and clever lyricist Cynthia Weil (Amy Lehpamer, a musical theatre star in her own right and irresistible here) and composer Barry Mann (a charming Mat Verevis). Another Brill Building power couple, they function as a classic musical theatre secondary duo – a little more comic than usual and destined for a happy ending – and their storyline helps balance and fill out Douglas McGrath’s snappy, straightforward book. Cynthia and Barry playfully (and hungrily) compete with Carole and Gerry for No 1 hits, a win for Beautiful’s audience: we hear a wider range of pop and early rock and roll numbers from the late 1950s through to the 1970s than we often do in these types of shows.
The formula for many of these musical numbers from the King-Goffin-Weil-Mann back catalogue is the same: the songs are played in part around a piano as the writers work on them and then, in a flash of lights and a few quick changes, the groups that made the songs famous pop up to sing them in full. This repetition wears a little thin but there’s great variety in the music and the acts that materialise to dazzle us: the Drifters, the Shirelles and the Righteous Brothers make an appearance, along with Janelle Woods, Little Eva, Marilyn Ward and Neil Sedaka (Jason Arrow’s take on this cameo role is delightfully naff).
Much has been made of Beautiful’s “ethnically ambiguous” casting, particularly for the African American roles – a “problem-solver” practice of hiring performers of colour with diverse heritage for roles that specify a particular ethnic identity (not the same as the less controversial “colour-blind” casting, in which actors are cast across roles regardless of their heritage). Beautiful’s approach runs the risk of treating all non-white ethnicities as interchangeable and has caused concern within the industry. While this production may not do anything to resolve Australia’s ongoing struggles around issues of race representation on stage, this ensemble is still tremendously talented – a cast of triple threats and first-class vocalists.
Beautiful perfectly marries the both key elements of the successful jukebox musical – nostalgia and story – and it does so simply by having narrative integrity and thoughtful shape. The structure of the show is nothing radical for the genre: it doesn’t push at the boundaries or challenge the conventions of it – rather, it takes those conventions seriously, treating them as milestones of its protagonist’s journey rather than the sum of it.
In the wake of shows such as Georgy Girl, Dream Lover and even The Bodyguard – musicals that prioritise nostalgia for the hit songs over the human story at their core – it’s refreshing to come across a production that doesn’t take that emotional engagement for granted but understands the sincerity of the investment audiences make, even in a big commercial show. Beautiful is perhaps at an advantage because its emotional journey follows the evolution of King’s music but McGrath is also careful to avoid that feeling of “shoe-horning” in a popular number, or rushing past the difficult parts of a story to get to a particular song or to lift spirits. Beautiful lets its audience feel everything and it’s a great example of how satisfying this now-established bio-jukebox formula can be.
But then, Beautiful isn’t telling a big, flashy story, even though it uses the tools of one. Its modesty may well be why it works so well. Underneath all the lights and smart, era-appropriate choreography (by Josh Prince), the real story of Beautiful is a small and meaningful one: it’s about how Carole King learned to trust in her own voice. Watching Hannaford’s King claim her own agency and artistry is a subtle but rewarding triumph. There’s a welcome catharsis in her moments of self-determination and, when King finally puts her powerful voice behind her own songs, the formulaic nature of the show is easy to forget. With this cast and Hannaford, especially, at its heart, Beautiful is more than entertaining: it’s genuinely moving.
• Beautiful: The Carole King Musical is showing at Sydney’s Lyric Theatre until 21 January 2018
!!!@@@$$$

The latest dispatch from the frontline of unnecessary meetings finds Ian Fletcher deciding what to do about Ryan Chelford. Judged purely in punditry terms, the cross-dressing ex-footballer’s appearance on Match of the Day didn’t go well, but he has been trending heavily on social media where “reaction … has been almost universally divided”. David Tennant’s narration neatly skewers Auntie’s dilemma: “The problem for the BBC is that they don’t know what to do.” Jonathan Wright
Philip Larkin showed that not only was a bigot capable of poetic genius but he could also have a sideline in photography. He prefigured today’s selfies with a series of posed self-portraits, and documented his life, loves and the environs of post-second world war Hull, whose library he joined in 1955. The poet John Wedgwood Clarke visits the East Riding of Yorkshire and talks to those who knew Larkin. David Stubbs
Under-used for a long time, post-Fortitude, Richard Dormer is in danger of being over-exposed as an intense policeman with ambiguous motives. In Rellik, though, there are more serious worries. Namely, how Gabriel will track the murderer and juggle his complex personal life – all the while contending with the reversed narrative. Tonight, Gabriel looks for his daughter in the incessant rain, Asim receives a threat, and creepy Barker is in for questioning. John Robinson
One of them has a beard and it’s still impossible to tell apart twin TV doctors, Chris and Xand van Tulleken. This medical marvel, and more, will be explored in their new three-part series on human biology. The topics in this growth-themed episode range from fascinatingly fertile to deathly dull, but the brothers’ best bits are their personal reflections on adolescence: “I was probably as embarrassed by your puberty as my own,” remarks Xand/Chris. Ellen E Jones
Debut of Ken Burns and Lynn Novick’s 10-part study of the Vietnam war. It is, predictably, superb, reflecting judiciously on the resonant folly of the US’s intervention in Indochina, and including interviews with people who fought on all sides – and who opposed the war. This first episode reflects on the conflict’s gestation, as Vietnam is divided after the eviction of its French colonial overlords. Absolutely unmissable. Andrew Mueller
Taking a psychological test seems like an easier way for a celebrity to remind the world they’re here than being holed up in the Big Brother house for weeks, but what will happen once they’re under the scrutiny of a psychotherapist? Geordie Shore alumnus Charlotte Crosby, boxing promoter Kellie Maloney, Towie guru Chloe Sims and Jonathan “I’m best mates with Kim Kardashian, don’t you know?” Cheban reveal their personality traits as Lee Valls interprets their answers. Hannah Verdier
This week, Joel Dommett’s globe-trotting challenge show finds him off to Kenya to ascertain whether he’s tough enough to live the life of a Maasai tribesman. He is soon being thrashed with sticks, mocked mercilessly for his piss-poor jumping skills, and force-fed goat, while his pal Nish Kumar stands there making quips and being surplus to requirements. Though Kumar does discover that his name means “no vagina” in Swahili, so there’s that. Ben Arnold
K-19: The Widowmaker (Kathryn Bigelow, 2002) 9pm, Sky1
Another compelling thriller based on real events from the director of Detroit. This is the story of the Soviet nuclear submarine that faced meltdown in 1961 – a near-catastrophe that was kept quiet for many years by a mortified Kremlin. It starts slowly, setting up the conflict between stern commander Vostrikov (Harrison Ford) and crew’s champion Polenin (Liam Neeson), but once the boat hits trouble, tension builds fast.
WTA Tennis: Tashkent Open 6am, BT Sport 2. Day one of the women’s tournament in Uzbekistan.
SGB Premiership: Play-Offs 7.30pm, BT Sport 1. Speedway action from the second leg of the semi-finals.
Premier League Football: Arsenal v West Bromwich Albion 7pm, Sky Sports Main Event. Coverage from the Emirates Stadium as Arsenal look to build on their draw at Chelsea.
!!!@@@$$$

British national self-confidence boomed throughout the 18th century, with that familiar mix of pride and insecurity. Now, more than ever, the educated English reader needed a dictionary. In the new world of global trade and global warfare, a language that was becoming seeded throughout the first British empire required an authoritative act of definition by a vigorous and practical champion. Enter Dr Johnson.
Samuel Johnson, born in Lichfield in 1709, was a pioneer who raised common sense to heights of genius, and a man of robust popular instincts whose watchwords were clarity, precision and simplicity. The Johnson who challenged Bishop Berkeley’s solipsist theory of the nonexistence of matter by kicking a large stone (“I refute it thus”) is the same Johnson for whom language must have a daily practical use, and a ready application to the everyday world of the common man.
The would-be lexicographer signed the contract for his Dictionary with the bookseller Robert Dodsley at a breakfast held at the Golden Anchor in Holborn on 18 June 1746. He was to be paid £1,575 in instalments, and from this he took money to rent 17 Gough Square in which he set up his “dictionary workshop”.
James Boswell (No 77 in this series) described the garret where Johnson worked as “fitted up like a counting house” with a long desk at which his clerks could work standing up. Johnson himself was stationed on a rickety chair surrounded by a chaos of borrowed books. He was helped by six assistants (five of them Scots, one an expert in “low cant phrases”).
Despite his formidable reputation as a man of letters, there was something rather childish about Johnson. In his awkward, ungainly walk and unkempt appearance, he was like an overgrown boy. It is said that he loved to climb trees and roll down grassy hills. Fanny Burney (No 82 in this series), who knew him well, once wrote that “His body is in continual agitation, see-sawing up and down; his feet are never a moment quiet; and, in short, his whole person is in perpetual motion.” Overshadowing his disconcerting exuberance was a chronic depression, reminiscent of Churchill’s “black dog”, a sometimes disabling despair. He told Boswell that Robert Burton’s The Anatomy of Melancholy was “the only book that ever took him out of bed two hours sooner than he wished to rise”.
Out of this troubled psychology, masking a profound inner torment, Johnson found solace in a language that was, in its coarse complexity and comprehensive genius, the precise analogue of his character. No surprise, then, that the Dictionary would occupy almost a decade of his career.
The work was immense. Writing in some 80 large notebooks (and without a library to hand), Johnson wrote the definitions of more than 40,000 words, illustrating their many meanings with about 114,000 quotations drawn from English writing on every subject, on food, philosophy, fashion and frivolity, from Shakespeare and the Elizabethans, via Milton, to his own time. He did not, he admitted, expect to achieve complete originality. Working to a deadline, essentially on his own, he had to draw on the best of all previous dictionaries, making his work a heroic synthesis. In fact, it was very much more. Unlike his predecessors, Johnson treated English very practically, as a living language, with many different shades of meaning. He adopted his definitions on the principle of English common law – according to precedent.
With the Dictionary, the author and his subject achieved a remarkable, unfettered unanimity. Both were adaptable, populist and instinctively subversive (or, to put it another way, libertarian). As a result, in the decades after its publication, the Dictionary was not seriously rivalled until the coming of The Oxford English Dictionary (1884), by which time some of Johnson’s definitions had passed into folklore:
Lexicographer: A writer of dictionaries, a harmless drudge… Oats: A grain, which in England is generally given to horses, but in Scotland supports the people. Whigs: The name of a faction.
The distinctive wit of the Dictionary and its definitions has obscured its remarkable grace and clarity:
Heart: The muscle which by its contraction and dilation propels the blood through the course of circulation … It is supposed in popular language to be the seat sometimes of courage, sometimes of affection.
Johnson’s 12 definitions for a simple, but tricky, word like Thought display the fluency and accuracy of an exceptional intelligence:
1. The operation of the mind; the act of thinking. 2. Idea; image formed in the mind. 3. Sentiment; fancy; imagery; conceit. 4. Reflection; particular consideration. 5. Conception; preconceived notion. 6. Opinion; judgement. 7. Meditation; serious consideration. 8. Design; purpose. 9. Silent contemplation. 10. Solicitude; care; concern. 11. Expectation. 12. A small degree; a small quantity.
For all its eccentricity, this two-volume work is a masterpiece and a landmark, in Johnson’s own words, “setting the orthography, displaying the analogy, regulating the structures, and ascertaining the significations of English words”.
It was an achievement that, in Boswell’s words, “conferred stability on the language of his country”, a stability that would be invaluable in the decades to come. However, though it made Johnson famous and well esteemed, the Dictionary did not allay his incessant money troubles. By 1759 Johnson was so hard up that he was forced to dash off the potboiling fable Rasselas to pay, he said, for his mother’s funeral.
“When I took the first survey of my undertaking, I found our speech copious without order, and energetic without rules: wherever I turned my view, there was perplexity to be disentangled and confusion to be regulated; choice was to be made out of boundless variety, without any established principle of selection; adulterations were to be detected, without a settled test of purity; and modes of expression to be rejected or received, without the suffrages of any writers of classical reputation or acknowledged authority.”(From the Preface to A Dictionary of the English Language)
James Boswell: The Life of Samuel Johnson LL D (1791) Noah Webster: An American Dictionary of the English Language (1828) James Murray (ed): The Oxford English Dictionary (1884)
!!!@@@$$$

In 2003, a tunnel was discovered beneath the Feathered Serpent pyramid in the ruins of Teotihuacan, the ancient city in Mexico. Undisturbed for 1,800 years, the sealed-off passage was found to contain thousands of extraordinary treasures lying exactly where they had first been placed as ritual offerings to the gods. Items unearthed included greenstone crocodile teeth, crystals shaped into eyes, and sculptures of jaguars ready to pounce. Even more remarkable was a miniature mountainous landscape, 17 metres underground, with tiny pools of liquid mercury representing lakes. The walls of the tunnel were found to have been carefully impregnated with powdered pyrite, or fool’s gold, to give the effect in firelight of standing under a galaxy of stars.
The archaeological site, near Mexico City, is one of the largest and most important in the world, with millions of visitors every year. This was its most exciting development for decades – and the significance of these new discoveries is explored in a major exhibition opening this month at the de Young Museum in San Francisco.
Teotihuacan has long been a place of mysteries. It was the most populous city in the Americas nearly 2,000 years ago, but little is known about its language, rulers or the circumstances of its collapse, in around AD550. Its name, which means “birthplace of the gods”, was given much later by the Aztecs, who treated the ruins – including the monumental Pyramids of the Sun and Moon and the majestic Avenue of the Dead – with due reverence.
Many questions remain unanswered, but the newly discovered tunnel has led to a greater understanding of the design and mythology of Teotihuacan, which was a sacred place as well as a bustling metropolis. The de Young exhibition, as well as showcasing artworks from numerous collections, offers the latest theories about the mysteries that still surround it.
The tunnel was chanced upon by Mexican archaeologist Sergio Gómez Chávez, who, after days of heavy rain, noticed that a sinkhole – a danger to tourists – had opened up near the foot of the Feathered Serpent pyramid. He shone a torch in but could see only darkness, so tied a rope round his waist and was lowered by workers down the hole, which with surprise he realised was a perfectly cylindrical shaft.
There was, he recalls, a sharp stench that was nearly unbearable, but at the bottom he peered through a gap in the rubble to see an underground passage, evidently an ancient construction. Work proceeded cautiously: before a dig began, his team used a robot with a video camera to explore the tunnel, which turned out to be as long as a football field, passing below the nearby great plaza as well as the pyramid. “We were amazed by what no one had seen for at least 1,500 years,” says Gómez Chávez in the show’s catalogue. At one end, the passage opened out into three chambers containing riches worthy of a quest by Indiana Jones.
The vast Pyramids of the Sun and Moon are different from those of ancient Egypt, being temples rather than tombs. They are connected by the Street of the Dead as part of an urban grid, the whole pattern oriented to the movement of the sun. The city’s very design contains the idea of it being “the birthplace of the gods” – where the universe was thought to have begun. Watermarks along the walls of Gómez Chávez’s passage have proved that the huge plaza above it was deliberately flooded to create a kind of primordial sea, with pyramids as metaphorical mountains emerging from the water as at the beginning of time. Thousands of people would have witnessed ceremonies re-enacting the creation myth.
The inhabitants of the city, along with those from similar civilisations, believed the universe had three levels, connected by an axis: the celestial plane, the earthly plane and the underworld, which wasn’t the Biblical place of fiery punishment but a dark, watery realm of creation, with lakes and mountains – it signified riches and rebirth as well as death. The rich array of objects Gómez Chávez has brought up from the passage – large spiral shells, beetle wings arranged in a box, hundreds of metal spheres – was left there as treasure to appease the gods. But it also seems that the tunnel, with its pyrite galaxy and liquid mercury lakes, was itself a re-creation of the underworld.
Most remarkably, at the end of the passage Gómez Chávez’s team uncovered four greenstone statues, which are a highlight of the de Young show. They are wearing garments and beads, and their open eyes would have shone with minerals. Two were still in their original positions, leaning back and apparently gazing up at the axis where the three planes of the universe meet: these are the founding shamans of Teotihuacan, who guided pilgrims to the sacred place. They carried bundles of sacred objects used to perform magic, including pendants and pyrite mirrors, which were seen as portals to another realm.
Other major Teotihuacan discoveries from the past few decades are represented in the show. A court is now thought to have existed near the plaza, where residents would have played the Mesoamerican equivalent of racquetball. In the 1980s, evidence of human sacrifice was found inside the Feathered Serpent pyramid. More than 100 warriors, kneeling with their hands bound behind their backs, are believed to have died there. Many wore necklaces of shells carved to look like human teeth; a few were made of actual teeth. In another pyramid, copious remains of animal sacrifices have been discovered, including wolves, rattlesnakes, golden eagles and pumas.
The facade of the Feathered Serpent was designed to be fearsome, with imposing stone carvings of the warlike reptile with a headdress (similar to the Aztec god Quetzalcoatl). Rituals taking place on the temple platform, such as sacrifices, would have impressed the masses crowding below – they instilled fear, perhaps, but would also have given rise to a shared religious sensibility, a way of bringing cohesion to a large, multiethnic city.
Within the newly cleared tunnel were found huge numbers of fragments of the Storm God. Recognisable by his goggle-eyes, fangs and drops of blood, he was associated with water and fertility, as well as fire, lightning and destruction. The Storm God was the owner of the underworld’s sacred waters. At the de Young, a gallery places him alongside the Old Fire God, an elderly figure who sits cross-legged and bears a brazier atop his head. With them are the benevolent Water Goddess and the smooth-faced Maize God, the subject of the site’s famous stone masks who symbolised the life-sustaining power of the crop.
The inhabitants of Teotihuacan would have walked past thousands of square feet of bright illustrated surfaces: the site is celebrated for its red fresco murals, which decorated apartments and public spaces. There are delicate paintings of flowering trees in the exhibition and, less delicately, an image of two coyotes eviscerating a deer. Animals are everywhere in the Teotihuacan visual world – and humans often merge into creatures. One vivid mural is of an anthropomorphic feline wearing a headdress and shell necklace. Another fragment, from the Street of the Dead is a menagerie of strange mythological hybrids. Yet another shows abird armed with serpent and spear.
More workmanlike objects, such as obsidian tools and incense burners, help to elucidate the historic urban structures – including living areas differentiated according to ethnicity, employment and rank. Immigrant groups from across Mesoamerica occupied distinct neighbourhoods: in this way, the development of Teotihuacan resembled that of such modern cities as London or New York.
The exhibition ends with a marble figure from an elite residential area. Notches in its arms and legs suggest it was tied with ropes to a post, in an echo of the ritual in which a high-ranking military captive was stripped, bound and shot with arrows. But the standing figure’s particular significance lies in its connection to the demise of Teotihuacan: it was pieced together from more than 160 fragments, having been mutilated by chisels; the fragments were fire-damaged. Such iconoclasm happened at the same time as the conflagration that razed the city in the sixth century. Who was responsible and why was it done? It is uncertain: as Matthew Robb, the curator of the show, has said, Teotihuacan resists interpretation as well as attracts it. Many mysteries remain.
!!!@@@$$$

Front Row, on Radio 4, is reliable, it is competent, it is always there, just after the news and the Archers. Its presenters are interested in their subjects, and good journalists. It knows what it is; it feels comfortable in its skin. I would care if it got taken off air. One can see, then, after the demise of BBC television’s The Culture Show and Newsnight Review (each shunted around the schedules until they died of confusion) why it was chosen to form the template of a new BBC2 arts show.
But would Front Row work on TV? There was trouble before the first programme even aired on Saturday evening. Instead of giving the regular radio presenters – Kirsty Lang, Samira Ahmed and John Wilson – jobs on the telly, new anchors for the small-screen version were announced. They were to be BBC media editor Amol Rajan, radio presenter and former actor Nikki Bedi, and, weirdly, Giles Coren, not everyone’s cup of tea, a journalist noted for his newspaper restaurant reviews and for having presented The Supersizers, but having no apparent qualifications for fronting an arts show aside from once having won the bad sex award for his debut novel, Winkler. Then came an interview in the Radio Times in which Coren declared he had not been to the theatre much for the past seven years (owing to paternal bathtime duties) and found the medium “stressful”; Rajan confessed to the sin of enjoying Andrew Lloyd Webber; and Bedi said she disliked sitting through very long plays without intervals.
As indignation raged among the show’s tiny potential audience, Coren gave an interview on the radio version of Front Row to Wilson (a brilliantly self-consuming BBC ploy that could have been dreamed up by W1A’s press officer Tracey Pritchard). Instead of eating humble pie and declaring his curiosity and intention to learn, which might have been the wiser course under the circumstances, Coren declared that there was “a theatrical establishment” that was silently mind-controlling audiences to believe that “there’s only one kind of thing you ought to like and here’s how you ought to like it”. (I feel once Coren has started attending the theatre regularly, he may recognise the innate ridiculousness of the claim that the British theatre world – talented and delightful as it is in so many ways – is capable of organising a global conspiracy.)
Aside from the opportunity to look at the faces of two middle-aged men it could have been on the radio
To the show itself. There was one perfectly good thing about it: an interview with director Michael Winterbottom by Wilson, who had been allowed to appear briefly on the telly. However, aside from the opportunity to look at the faces of two middle-aged men – handsome as they may be – it could just as well have been on the radio.
Aside from a brief performance by the band Wolf Alice, the rest was a bit of a wobble. The studio set consisted of an arrangement of what looked like giant blister-packets of paracetemol in a virulent shade of purple. Coren, perhaps advisedly, largely stuck to the autocue, though that lent a certain stiffness to proceedings. There was an interview with Gilbert & George: it elicited nothing fresh about the artists. On a rather-too-small sofa sat the studio guests, writer and comedian Viv Groskop and radio DJ Nihal Arthanayake, whose job it was to have too little time to say anything interesting about quite odd subjects. (Harry Potter, good or bad? Really? The week of Simon Rattle’s blazing Stravinsky with the London Symphony Orchestra?)
Nothing seemed to matter very much. The stakes were low. There was no danger, no heat, no fire. Nothing that might force the intellect into a state of gentle strain. Heaven forfend that it might have tackled subjects that weren’t obviously “popular” – there seemed about as little chance of the TV version of the programme tackling, say, the new show at the Chisenhale Gallery in east London as flying to Mars; and there was no hint of the political and issue-based items that the radio version sometimes includes.
But somehow, on the radio, things are different: Melvyn Bragg gets to chat away with impunity about Immanuel Kant and people enjoy it. BBC2’s Front Row, judged on its first episode, feels like evidence of a massive failure of nerve, a shying-away from difficulty and risk, a pulped-down, food-processed version of the arts that lacked even the brisk, businesslike pleasures of its radio equivalent. Perhaps it will improve. Heaven knows that many a brilliant television show has had shaky early episodes. But not for the first time, I am forced to wonder: what is it about the arts that BBC TV fears so much?
!!!@@@$$$

Queen Victoria has replaced Sherlock Homes as the most featured character on British screens. According to a study by the British Film Institute, the monarch now is jointly tied with James Bond, on 25 films – thanks to Judi Dench’s turn in Victoria and Abdul. But which other enduring characters have appeared multiple times in the movies around the world?
Peter Sellers played the Pink Panther detective six times, but Clouseau has also been portrayed by Alan Arkin, Roger Moore and Steve Martin (the latter being something we would probably all rather forget). Sellers’ portrayal helped make the comically chaotic Frenchman an enduring favourite, although these days his performances look a little dated. Including animated versions, Clouseau has appeared in at least 40 films.
Eartha Kitt purred her way into popularity in the Batman TV series, followed by Julie Newmar – but it was Michelle Pfeiffer who brought her to life on film in Tim Burton’s Batman Returns. The sexy, morally ambiguous antiheroine proved to be catnip to film-makers, although Halle Berry’s standalone film was a flop before Anne Hathaway revived her in The Dark Knight Rises.
The British monarch has been appearing as a film character since 1912, appearing in a whopping total of 48 films listed on the IMDb, either taking centre stage or as part of wider historical dramas. Cate Blanchett played her beautifully in Elizabeth and Elizabeth: The Golden Age, and she will be portrayed by Margot Robbie in Mary Queen of Scots next year.
Since his debut in Marvel comics, the colonel has been astonishingly prolific, appearing in numerous series and TV movies before Samuel L Jackson was cast in the Avengers film series, giving the character a new lease of life. Definitely an improvement on the time he was played by David Hasselhoff. 2019’s Captain Marvel will be Fury’s 25th big screen outing.
The history of Jesus on film offers an interesting snapshot of cultural attitudes to religion: the 1965 movie The Greatest Story Ever Told, starring Max von Sydow, was nominated for five Oscars, while Jim Caviezel was lauded, but not garlanded with honours, for The Passion of the Christ in 2004. The anarchic 70s offered its own version in Monty Python’s Life of Brian. But then, he wasn’t the messiah: he was a very naughty boy.
!!!@@@$$$

What happened? I wish I knew for certain. What I can say is that I absolutely gave it my best shot and that I couldn’t have had a wiser team around me. When I shed a tear as I waited in line at President Trump’s inauguration, it wasn’t for me. It was also for all the people in America who would have to live with that man as their leader.
I won’t deny that the six months since I lost the election have been some of the toughest of my life. But I’ve gotten by a day at a time thanks to the love of my husband, Bill, the support of close friends, such as Sheryl Sandberg, and the knowledge that I won the popular vote. I’ve learned to concentrate on taking pleasure from the little things. Like my daily yoga practice and buying a farm in upstate New York. In particular I find alternate breathing through each nostril helps me centre myself. It sounds hard but it gets easier with practice: you breathe in through one nostril in one of your homes, then get in the car and breathe in through the other in another.
Friends have asked me why I did it, why I agreed to run for president. To tell the truth, I had no option. I knew that many people didn’t like me. And I knew that it would be hard to defend Barack Obama’s desperately poor record in office. But I had to do it. All my life I’ve never wanted to do anything other than serve my country. And be president. And in a way I am president because I did win the popular vote. Yet unfortunately, even though I won, I lost. And I take full responsibility for everything that went wrong apart from those things that were other people’s fault.
When I think back on my campaign I can’t think of anything I would have done differently apart from those things that I might have done differently. Everything from the two stylists who did my hair every morning while I was eating scrambled egg whites to ringing Bill at night to tell him how much I loved him and was grateful for his support was just perfect. We also had the best ever campaign slogan in Stronger Together. I loved that slogan because it said everything I wanted to say. Though maybe it should have been Together Stronger. Just as we are together stronger, we are also stronger together.
Now let me tell you a little bit about me. I’m a woman. I know many people found that hard to accept. But I’m proud of being a woman. More than being a woman, I am also a Mom, a wife, a daughter and a grandmother. There’s nothing I adore more than being a Mom. Apart from being a wife, a daughter and a grandmother. There’s also nothing I adore more than being a grandmother. Apart from … (can someone edit this bit for me as my stylist has just turned up).
It was an honour and privilege to serve the American people by meeting them out on the campaign trail. Perhaps I should have heeded my team’s advice and not stopped so long to talk to people. But when I see a poor black girl crying in the rain because she’s been told to wait for hours to see me, my heart just yearns to reach out.
Don’t get me wrong, I’m not blaming anyone but me for losing the presidency. Even though I did win the popular vote. Did I mention that? And yes, I can’t deny that it was a bit bone-headed of me to use my private email for state business, but it was a mistake anyone could have made if they hadn’t read the rules. Besides, none of them were in the least incriminating; 20,000 were to my assistant asking her to use the fax machine as I couldn’t cope with email. And the other 10,000 were to Bill telling him how much I loved him and that I wasn’t still angry about Monica.
Yes, losing the election was all on me. But don’t forget the Russians; they were in it up to their neck. As was James Comey the head of the FBI. But I can do no more. My race is run. All that is left to me is to gently weep bitter tears of sorrow while praying for the future of American democracy under that complete orange slimeball douchebag. Breathe in through alternate nostrils. And relax.
Digested read, digested: Shit happened.
!!!@@@$$$

The French architect Jean Nouvel has defended his Louvre museum in Abu Dhabi, a massive domed complex that opens in November, from accusations it was built by exploited and abused migrant workers.
The building opens on 11 November, 10 years after the Paris museum signed an unprecedented £663m deal to allow Abu Dhabi to use its name for 30 years and borrow 300 works from its collection.
It features a 180-metre-diameter domed roof weighing 7,000 tonnes, the same as the Eiffel Tower, and 7,850 star shapes intended to create what Nouvel described as a “rain of light”.
In an interview as the finishing touches are put to the colossal construction, the architect dismissed accusations over exploited workers as an “old question” and insisted conditions for those building the museum were better than for some employed in Europe.
“At the beginning we saw the places where the workers live and their conditions to check that it was correctly done … They have the same conditions, even better conditions, than those I see in other countries,” he said. “We checked and it was fine. We saw no problem.”
A 2015 a Human Rights Watch report suggested migrants working on the Louvre museum and neighbouring Guggenheim, part of a £18bn “cultural hub” on Saadiyat Island in Abu Dhabi, were subjected to conditions amounting to forced labour including summary arrest and deportation if they complained.
The Gulf state authorities say they have improved the rights and conditions of migrant workers, but critics such as the Gulf Labor Artist Coalition, formed by prominent international artists, say this is mostly for show.
Nouvel told the Anglo-American Press Association the museum had been designed around the local culture, climate and history as well as traditional Arabic patterns.
“I am very contextual. Architecture exists in function to its situation. A great museum for me is one that sits with the culture of the country in which it is created. I don’t think these things are interchangeable. I would not work in New York, Paris or London. Most architecture today is interchangeable; this is not.”
Nouvel said the dappled shadows created by the dome were reminders of “the souk or the light through the leaves of palm trees”.
The canopy partially covers more than 60 white buildings but is anchored at just four points, giving the impression it is floating. “It’s a neighbourhood under a kind of umbrella,” Nouvel said.
Hala Wardé, Nouvel’s partner, who has overseen the Louvre project, denied it was about bringing western culture to the Arab world, saying this was “not the spirit” of the collaboration.
“This has been about sharing culture on both sides and it has been extremely enriching on both sides,” Wardé said.
Nouvel added that the project was a “fantastic tool for the education of the younger generation” and was reminiscent of the “golden ages” enjoyed by the world’s historic cities.
“It’s like a cathedral, in that respect,” he said, adding that the Louvre Abu Dhabi was “a dialogue of civilisations … a question of universality and philosophy”.
“It’s about realising the qualities of civilisations that are not our own,” he said.
“An architect who is ambitious is not ambitious for himself but because the project is so important and the ambition is the strong will to leave the best testimony. I believe to create a museum is something very important for the evolution of conscience and the transmission of knowledge to the next generation.
“We don’t build for a person, we construct for people, for civilisations, for humanity.”
!!!@@@$$$

The occupation of the Volksbühne theatre in Berlin has been condemned as “not acceptable” by its new director, who the activists fear will take the radical venue in a more commercial direction.
The protest against the appointment of Chris Dercon, a former director of the Tate Modern in London, began on Friday and swelled over the weekend after fruitless negotiations between activists, city authorities and Dercon.
“The talks have ended for now without results,” the Volksbühne said on its Facebook page. “It remains to be seen whether rehearsals will resume on Monday.”
In a statement, Dercon and the programme director, Marietta Piekenbrock, said: “We in no way condemn the occupiers, and their social and policy issue, which are important for Berlin. But we condemn the irresponsible way in which they swooped in the building on Friday afternoon.
“In spite of their efforts, the occupiers put their concerns above the safety of our employees and their own audience. And they position themselves above our artists and their work with an unprecedented arrogance.”
Dercon and Piekenbrock said they would like to restart rehearsals for performances scheduled for November as soon as possible, but any rehearsals would clash with the occupiers’ “night-and-day events and parties”.
“This occupation is not acceptable. We ask politicians to now live up to their responsibility and take action,” they said.
The protesters, who have formed an artists’ collective called From Dust to Glitter, plan to occupy the building in east Berlin for three months while staging performances free of charge.
They held their first “assembly” on Saturday evening, urging theatre lovers to show up in force and bring supplies such as toilet paper, printers and food and drink.
The appeal was so successful that police said no more supporters could be allowed in after the building reached its maximum capacity of 500 people.
With its protest action, the collective said it wanted to “send a message against the current politics” and creeping gentrification in Germany’s capital.
Volksbühne artists have been strongly critical of Dercon, who this year replaced the renowned Frank Castorf, who led the avant garde theatre for almost 25 years.
Rebuilt after the second world war in an imposing Stalinist style, using remnants of Hitler’s destroyed chancellery, the Volksbühne (people’s stage) prides itself on caustic commentary on political and capitalist hypocrisy.
Born out of an eponymous movement with the express mission to bring art to working-class people, it continued to remain true to its vision during the theatre’s 40 years on the eastern side of the Berlin Wall.
Carstorf, a prominent theatre director as well as artistic director, was credited with turning the Volksbühne into one of Europe’s leading venues with his bold, controversial and often lengthy productions.
Dercon, whose nomination has been controversial since it was announced in 2015, will be the first non-artist to take the helm. It is not his first role in Germany, however. Before joining Tate Modern, he spent eight years in charge of Munich’s Haus der Kunst, where he won much praise.
Critics fear his tenure will herald a shift to less provocative and more commercial productions at the heavily subsidised Volksbühne.
They have also questioned whether Belgian-born Dercon can bring the radical sensibility and awareness of Berlin’s tumultuous history that is woven into the fabric of the theatre.
Last summer, about 200 people affiliated with the theatre signed an open letter warning of “the destruction of originality and obstinacy, which has gained the Volksbühne an international reputation and worldwide recognition”.
In response, an open letter in support of Dercon appeared, signed by prominent figures in the art world. It said the protests were a “concerted public circus” and called the appointment of Dercon a “bold and inspired” choice.
Seemingly undeterred by the protest, in which piles of faeces have been left outside his office on a daily basis, Dercon launched the theatre’s new season with a 12-hour dance event outside the former Tempelhof airport on 10 September.
At the time of the open letter, Dercon released a statement to say fears were unfounded.
“We are planning a programme that builds a bridge between the present and the history of theatre, and the history of the Volksbühne,” he said. “In every generation, this theatre has put a revolution on the stage, and every time the circumstances were more flexible afterwards than they were before.”
!!!@@@$$$

Northern Broadsides have made a habit of giving European classics a Yorkshire setting. So it seems fitting that Barrie Rutter’s farewell, at least on home soil, to the company he founded should be a version by Blake Morrison of Alain-René Lesage’s Turcaret.
Even if Morrison’s adaptation is unlikely to cause the offence that the original did in France in 1709, it remains a lively satire on capitalist corruption. Morrison shifts the action from Louis XIV’s Paris to a Yorkshire town in the 1920s, but the characters are still propelled by greed. Rose, a young war widow, milks a besotted bank manager, Algy, for all she can while herself being conned by a money-grubbing cousin. But loot is to this play what sex is to La Ronde, in that it forms an endless daisy chain.
Just as the supposedly upright banker is guilty of embezzlement, so the cozening cousin has a fly servant who is also out to line his pockets. Virtually the only honest character is Rose’s housekeeper who is promptly dismissed for her plain speaking.
It seems a touch harsh to single out 1920s Yorkshire as uniquely covetous and there are times when you feel that Morrison may be too much in thrall to his source: I couldn’t believe he invented a duff scene where an antiques dealer tries to take advantage of Rose’s hardship. But the play works because, in the honourable tradition of Jonson or Molière, it uses farce to point up human fallibility.
Morrison’s text also has a constant verbal vivacity – so that Algy’s claim that he runs “a tight ship” is spoonerishly inverted to “a shite tip” – and makes rich use of Yorkshire dialect in which “a cup of tea” becomes “chatter-watter”. Rutter directs and, by having characters introduce themselves with a 20s dance, suggests we are watching a piece of poison-tipped frivolity.
Sarah-Jane Potts as the pageboy-haired Rose hits the right note of demure calculation and both Jordan Metcalfe as a wily servant and Kat Rose-Martin as his cleaner girlfriend, whom he introduces as “the best scrubber in town”, make a decisive mark. Rutter himself is also excellent as the bumptious bank manager who is bent as a hairpin. When he claims “I was trained in London – they taught me everything I know,” the actor half turns to the audience as if to get his own revenge on the arts apparatchiks who have denied him the funding he desperately needs.
• At West Yorkshire Playhouse, Leeds, from 26 to 30 September. Box office: 0113 213 7700. Then touring until 2 December.
!!!@@@$$$

The London Philharmonic opened its new season with a concert performance of Oedipe, George Enescu’s only opera, first heard in Paris in 1936. It was greeted with near incomprehension in its composer’s lifetime, and it is only in the past two decades that its qualities and stature have been acknowledged. When the Royal Opera staged it last year, many considered it a lost masterpiece. I missed it on that occasion, and have yet to be fully convinced by it. The LPO’s performance, however, conducted by Vladimir Jurowski and wonderfully well cast, was a superb achievement that made the strongest possible case for the work.
Enescu’s music gets unnervingly under your skin, though it takes time to do so. The opera tells the story of Oedipus from birth to death. Edmond Fleg’s libretto draws on Sophocles’s Theban plays for the last two of its four acts, but is more discursive in its treatment of the preceding material. The stance is anti-Freudian: Oedipus’s blinding is seen as a prelude to spiritual enlightenment rather than as emblematic of the mechanics of repression, and the narrative is presented in religious, broadly theosophical terms. The dramaturgy, however, takes ages to cohere. The ritual element, essential both to classical tragedy and Enescu’s purpose, seems imposed on the action at the start rather than fully integrated. There are longueurs in the first half, and it is not until we reach Oedipus’s encounter with the Sphinx that we fully enter a soundworld at once unique and extraordinary.
Jurowski mined Enescu’s textures for all they were worth. The playing was exemplary as darkening strings and growling brass tracked Oedipe’s descent into psychological and physical darkness, and luminous woodwind marked his eventual emergence into light and spiritual understanding. The Choir of the George Enescu Philharmonic sang the difficult, all-important choruses with tremendous fervour and beauty of tone.
French bass-baritone Paul Gay, meanwhile, performed with great immediacy in the strenuous title role, pushing himself to his expressive limits to convey Oedipe’s arrogance, anguish and eventual nobility. Ruxandra Donose was his sensual yet dignified Jocaste, Christopher Purves the uppity Créon, Willard White the ferocious Tirésias. Graham Clark’s bewildered Shepherd and Felicity Palmer’s troubled Mérope were luxury casting indeed. Ildikó Komlósi, meanwhile, made an outstanding Sphinx, charismatic and sinister by turns, her every phrase fantastically coloured – a truly great artist and utterly mesmerising.
!!!@@@$$$

Fibreglass porches, panelled garage doors and uPVC sash windows have rarely been celebrated in the hallowed halls of the Royal Institute of British Architects, but then Pablo Bronstein isn’t your usual suspect for an exhibition at the Portland Place pile. “I like to think it’s a bit Christine Hamilton,” says the artist, standing in one of the rooms, wallpapered a buttercup yellow, that he has erected in the RIBA’s gallery.
A white dado rail and cornice skirt the walls of a new suite of rooms, on which his framed drawings hang like cheap prints in a mid-range hotel. “I’ve got the same wallpaper in my bathroom,” he adds, clearly taking great pleasure in foisting his cosy domestic vision on an audience more used to stroking raw concrete.
The drawings are the product of Bronstein’s obsessive survey, carried out over the last six years, into the kind of architecture that is everywhere. Hidden in plain sight on every street in the country, often built without an architect at all, it is what he terms “pseudo-Georgian”: the ubiquitous developer filler of generic boxes clad with stick-on bricks, sash windows and mansard roofs that, since the 1970s, has been used for everything from suburban housing developments to inner-city office blocks. It is so common that it has almost gone without comment, blossoming beneath our collective critical radar.
“We are reflected in the architecture we create,” writes Bronstein in his accompanying book, a sequel to his witty 2008 Guide to Postmodern Architecture in London. “The reality is that we have created much more pseudo-Georgian architecture over the last 30 years than any other kind of building. For most of us, it seems, a cheap yellow-brick facade evokes almost effortlessly a rosy everlasting British prosperity.”
His pen and ink drawings, drafted in a quaint style reminiscent of postcards from National Trust gift shops, depict a world oozing with aspiration. There are humble homes gussied up with pediments and plastic porches, as well as banal commercial apartment blocks with facades arranged in vaguely Georgian proportions. In each case, these knocked-up, off-the-peg buildings are depicted as if they are the finest works of Palladio, in prints framed by heaving ornamented swags and overwrought mouldings.
Marvel at a London Waitrose – “the pearl of Holloway Road”, according to Bronstein’s caption – with a cupola-crowned tower floating above its entrance. That oddly proportioned line of columns, running above the shopfront windows, suggest the architect once glimpsed a photograph of Vicenza, but not for long enough. Or revel in the wonders of Harrods Village in Barnes, whose improvised balconies and garages decorated with vertically laid red bricks give it “an unmistakable whiff of the favela”.
The show could be read as a snobbish parody of the tastes of middle England, but Bronstein is more nuanced. “There’s no moral judgement here,” he says. “The project might have started off from hatred, but it developed into love. I want it to be like a guidebook, encouraging people to look at this stuff more closely.”
The exhibition has a timely Brexit air about it, and it will coincide with a paid-for exhibition upstairs by the young neoclassical architect George Saumarez Smith, but that’s simply a delicious coincidence. Bronstein has been preoccupied with the domestic tastes of the aspiring middle classes ever since he was a child. He was born in Argentina, but when he was small his family moved to suburban Neasden, where he would spend happy weekends fondling the tassels in the Laura Ashley concession at the local Homebase.
By the time he was 15, his bedroom was a chintzy wonderland, its walls lovingly painted with trompe-l’oeil classical columns and adorned with candle sconce features, which he would light when family friends came to visit. “It was basically a setting for me to masturbate in,” the 40-year-old says now, with a schoolboy snigger, “but my parents’ friends always cooed dutifully at the decor.”
He remembers being dumbstruck on first encountering World of Interiors magazine in the 1980s, full of Marie Antoinette-style living rooms, and he recently achieved his lifelong ambition of making the cover of the title with a feature on his own Georgian home in London’s Bethnal Green. “I was more excited than if I’d got the cover of Art Forum,” he says, without a hint of irony.
This lifestyle marketing aspect of the pseudo-Georgian industry is exposed in fascinating detail in the RIBA show, with articles and covers from trade magazines of the 1970s and 80s charting the rise of nostalgia as a byproduct of the backlash against brutalist housing estates. “Be wise, build traditional,” advises Building magazine in 1985, beneath a photograph of a pair of Noddy-box homes on a suburban housing estate. “Georgian elegance in glass fibre,” promises another advert, in which a woman proudly shows off a dreary range of panelled front doors.
Bronstein links the pseudo-Georgian boom with the Thatcherite council house policy of right to buy and the Conservative dream of “a nation of homeowners”, seeing people’s lust for tradition in part as a result of being liberated from the hated concrete council estates. What better symbol of home than a style that evokes a cartoon drawing of a house? As Bronstein notes: “The architecture which corresponds to the purchase of a first house, and possibly the first privately owned house in the recent history of a family, should say ‘house’ loudly, clearly and economically.”
The very sobriety of Georgian architecture, meanwhile, is what has made it so commercially expedient. Flat walls of yellow brick and simple grids of windows mean it can fill any plot of land and allow for endless repetition, while the general flimsiness can be hidden behind signifiers of permanence and solidity. Its easy negotiation of building codes and its suitability to historically sensitive areas has made it indispensable to developers, too, so it’s easy to see why this often shoddily built pastiche rubbish has become so endemic.
It may well be a scourge on our cities, but Bronstein’s drawings – holding up a mirror to our national identity – do make you look again, and even spot occasional glimmers of richness in the tat. You might even end up taking pleasure in noticing how a builder used an artful splurge of mastic in the facade of a block of flats, to suggest the presence of two homes. As Bronstein says: “There is nothing more moving than to find brilliance in unexpected places.”
!!!@@@$$$

Welsh National Opera’s new season forms part of Russia 17, Wales’s arts-wide commemoration of the centenary of the Russian Revolution and, hot on the heels of Mussorgsky’s Khovanshchina at the Proms a few weeks ago, comes this revival of WNO’s 2007 production. It’s a starkly compelling reflection both on the anniversary itself and on the bloody nature of change throughout history: for what emerges is not simply a drama about Mother Russia but the tragedy that unfolds when rival factions within any nation set about each other in a way that spells fragmentation and self-destruction.
The bicentenary of the accession of Peter the Great as Tsar in 1682 was the impulse for Mussorgsky in composing the opera to his own sprawling libretto. Director David Pountney’s staging is set just after the revolution, with the strong, constructivist lines of the late Johan Engels’ design brilliantly channelling El Lissitzky and Kasimir Malevich, but the contemporary resonances are even more chilling today than a decade ago.
The biggest change is that the production is now sung in Russian with subtitles, an initial caption on the frontcloth explaining the significance of the Streltsy, the brutal and debauched militia who support the ambitions of Prince Ivan Khovansky for himself and his son Andrei. Together with the machinations of the corrupt Prince Vasily Golitsyn, former lover of the regent Sophia, and the involvement of the schismatic Orthodox sect, the Old Believers, the complexities of the plot are manifold but, thanks to the clarity of Pountney’s delineation of the different elements and Musorgsky’s artful and deeply Russian characterisations, the work’s essential intensity is always felt.
Performed in Shostakovich’s orchestration – Mussorgsky died before finishing it – the monumentality and theatricality of the concept is convincing, though the endless soul-searching of the non-historical seer, Marfa, sung by Sara Fulgoni, becomes trying, and the paradings of the similarly extraneous Persian slave, danced by Elena Thomas, also drags on. The sheer force of the WNO chorus on stage adds immeasurably to the experience, notably as the fiery Streltsy in act three and most movingly as the Old Believers, opting finally for self-immolation rather than compromise their religious principles.
Robert Hayward’s Ivan is the big vocal presence, but it is the dignified authority of Miklós Sebestyén’s performance as the believers’ leader, Dosifei, that helps carry the evening, and Simon Bailey is similarly imposing as Shaklovity. Tomáš Hanus conducts with passion.
!!!@@@$$$

When I started acting I knew nothing. It was a momentous decision to pick up the flyer for the Trainspotting audition. “Destined” is a bit of a poncy word for it, but I do think I was headed in that direction.
Swearing never came naturally to me. I got bullied in school for it. I was pinned up against the girls’ cloakroom wall while everyone chanted at me to swear. All I could come up with was “bloody”.
What looks good on a Texan film set doesn’t look good on Sauchiehall Street in Glasgow. I spent pretty much all my wages from No Country For Old Men on a pair of cowboy boots. They’re ridiculous. It’s like wearing two Christmas trees on my legs.
Watching films I’m in is always odd. It’s hard not to see my faults
I’ve never fought for anything in my life. The story that I had to fight my agent to be considered for a part in No Country For Old Men is bullshit. I just audition for parts and get them or I don’t. I’m not champing at the bit.
Watching films I’m in is always a bit odd, especially when I’m watching them for the first time with other people. It’s hard not to see my faults.
On-screen birth is laborious. I’ve had two babies in real life, and loads on screen. I had twins in some silly film that wanted to be The Girl in the Pearl Earring. It was more like The Girl in the Blue Shellsuit. But I was worried about having to do it again recently. It’s as if I have to prove myself.
I don’t know if my boys [Freddie, 9, and Theo, 4] like any films I’ve done. I took them to the Swallows and Amazons premiere in the Lake District last year. Theo didn’t understand what was happening. Whenever I was holding the baby in the film, he kept shouting: “Who’s that baby?” Then: “Where am I?” He was freaked out by the whole thing.
Everybody was super fit and healthy on T2 Trainspotting, which is remarkable, considering. Jonny [Lee Miller] and Ewan [McGregor] were running up Arthur’s Seat in Edinburgh almost daily during filming. It was very different from making the first one. Never mind hangovers on set, people were still drunk.
I’ve always been pretty self-sufficient. I never had to borrow money from my mum, even in the early days.
Boardwalk Empire was a total leap in the dark. It worked out quite well – five years is a nice amount of time. But I was in an American/HBO bubble for a wee while and I wasn’t plugged in to what was happening back here.
Because of my Celtic brogue, I do get cast as “staff” quite often. But I span the decades. I’m not always in a corset, you know.
Kelly Macdonald stars in the TV drama The Child In Time, on 24 September at 9pm on BBC1, and in Goodbye Christopher Robin, in cinemas nationwide from 29 September
!!!@@@$$$

Towards the end of last year’s election, NBC correspondent Katy Tur and her colleagues played a game no other presidential contest had inspired: name a campaign headline too crazy to be real.
“No one can do it,” she recalls in her new campaign memoir, Unbelievable. That isn’t really so surprising: on 19 October, this one was published: “Buzzfeed CEO: I Heard Ivanka Trump Talk About ‘Mulatto Cocks’.”
Tur’s subtitle is “My Front-Row Seat to the Craziest Campaign in American History”, and there is barely a page in her book that does not confirm that description. Even the briefest summary of Trump’s outrages during his 500 days on the trail is still almost entirely unbelievable:
“I’ve heard him insult a war hero, brag about grabbing women by the pussy, denigrate the judicial system, demonize immigrants, fight with the pope, doubt the democratic process, advocate torture and war crimes, tout the size of his junk in a presidential debate, trash the media, and indirectly endanger my life.”
Trump’s relentless attacks on the press in general and Tur in particular were among the most revolting aspects of a repellent campaign, and they made Tur a hero to the decent people who were familiar with her fair and thorough work. By the end of the campaign, she needed private security at all of Trump’s rallies. Everyone covering Trump at NBC was under armed protection outside the venues.
This is not normal. Nothing like it had ever happened to reporters covering any previous major party candidate for president.
The truth is, given Trump’s constant goading of his supporters against the reporters who covered him, it’s something of a miracle that Tur never suffered anything worse than spittle through a lowered van window. After all, this is a candidate who could raise the possibility of killing journalists before saying: “I’d never kill them … But I do hate them. Some of them are such lying, disgusting people.”
At that moment Tur felt like she was in the Roman Colosseum. She wondered: “When to they release the lions? What happens if someone in here can’t take a joke?”
Even after everything we have learned, some of Tur’s behind-the-scenes details remain startling. At the end of one of her first extended interviews with him, Trump explodes, and demands that she run their half-hour interview in full.
“I know what you guys do,” he said. “Deceptive editing.”
Even more surprising: afterwards, the Trump campaign emailed a statement to Chuck Todd’s show reiterating “our disappointment with the extremely negative positioning of the questions”, the network accedes to Trump’s request and runs the interview in full.
Trump alternates between trying to humiliate Tur by kissing her on the way into Morning Joe – and then bragging about it on air moments later – and attacking her in four tweets in four minutes, calling her, “3rd rate”, “incompetent” and “dishonest”.
Sometimes Tur almost inadvertently reveals the built-in shortcomings of American television journalism. One page begins with this declaration: “I need to break some news … I need to be a reporter.” Then she briskly segues to the talent which is even more important to her success: “Getting your TV face ready in the car is a skill that only years of practice can perfect … There’s nothing flattering about a fluorescent overhead and magnet-triggered mirror LEDs.”
Tur is correct in saying NBC Nightly News is “still a big deal” because it gets 8-10 million viewers a night. But she’s dreaming when she calls it “a broadcast that carries weight … It is more than that … It’s history.” As any regular viewer of that newscast knows, barely half of its nightly 22 minutes are ever devoted to anything a serious reporter would consider actual news. The rest is consumed by human interest stories and lots and lots of weather – even when there aren’t any hurricanes to report.
The razor-sharp observations of Tur’s book – Trump’s “sentences call to mind an aerial shot of a burning, derailed freight train” – are the sort of thing you hear nowadays on The Daily Show or Stephen Colbert’s Late Show and never, ever, on any of the networks’ evening news broadcasts.
The glory days of network news with Walter Cronkite and Chet Huntley and David Brinkley are now many decades behind us, along with the reliable seriousness and wit of great television correspondents like Roger Mudd, Morley Safer, Elie Abel and many more. Back then, the news was treated almost as a loss-leader by the networks, a way to maintain prestige while entertainment brought in the bucks.
But for many years now, news departments have been profit centers like every other part of the network. Tur only occasionally hints at this. For example, during one of her many feuds with Trump – and a week without any exclusive interviews with him on NBC – she becomes nervous because Trump is neglecting the Today Show and favoring ABC’s Good Morning America. The executive producer of Today assures her he doesn’t care, but it doesn’t sound like Tur believes him.
Tur never mentions the main problem with the way television covered Trump, especially at the beginning of his campaign. Producers realized right away that he was good for ratings, which meant he was good for the bottom line. The ultimate outcome may have been the same anyway, but this perception unquestionably translated into vastly more coverage for this obviously unqualified candidate than he ever deserved.
In the immortal words of CBS chairman Les Moonves at the beginning of last year, Trump’s candidacy “may not be good for America, but it’s damn good for CBS”.
Nine months into Trump’s presidency, it looks like the first half of his observation could turn out to be the understatement of the 21st century.
!!!@@@$$$

To viewers, William G Stewart, who has died aged 84, was the host of the long-running Channel 4 quiz show Fifteen to One, which had a reputation as one of the toughest on television. He was admired for his no-nonsense manner in the programme, which ran from 1988 to 2003, and where contestants tried to avoid elimination by answering general knowledge questions correctly or passing them on for others to answer. “They always thought I was like a severe teacher,” he said. “I was described as a geography master standing in front of pupils.”
However, Stewart’s background was as a producer-director of sitcoms, most successfully ITV’s Bless This House (1971-76). It was devised by the writers Vince Powell and Harry Driver as a starring vehicle for Sid James, who played the family man married to Jean (played by Diana Coupland) and facing generation gap problems with their children, Mike (Robin Stewart) and Sally (Sally Geeson, who became Stewart’s second wife).
As well as making all 65 episodes, Stewart warmed up the live studio audience with his own gags. He had previously worked behind the scenes on the BBC sitcom Hancock’s Half Hour, so knew James, Tony Hancock’s foil. However, he was concerned about the star’s apparently lacklustre performance in rehearsals. “That’s not the way I work,” James told him. “I don’t want to leave my best fight in the gym.” Stewart then discovered that he gave his all in the recording studio – and Bless This House became a phenomenal hit, attracting 20 million viewers for most of its run. Among the scriptwriters commissioned for it by Stewart was Carla Lane, who went on to create Butterflies and Bread.
Stewart was born in Lancaster, orphaned at the age of two after the deaths of his parents, and brought up in a children’s home in Sidcup, Kent. He said his only ambition as a child was to star in cowboy films. His letters to Hollywood studios were met with advice to get experience, but his early employment in “boring” office jobs after leaving Shooters Hill grammar school was a long way from the glitz and glamour of Tinseltown. He did his national service with the army in Kenya.
In 1958, Stewart headed for Southampton to join the merchant navy but was unable to do so because of an industrial dispute, so he applied for a job at Butlin’s. “I thought I’d have a great time and perhaps work in the kitchens,” he said. “But, while I was having an interview, a chap asked if I wanted to be a redcoat. He must have seen something in me.”
During a season at the Pwllheli holiday camp in north Wales, Stewart organised a talent contest won by a teenage Jimmy Tarbuck, which led the Liverpudlian to become a redcoat himself before a successful career as a stand-up comedian.
In 1959, after hearing a talk about careers in television by the producer T Leslie Jackson at the YMCA in Brixton, where he was staying at the time, Stewart successfully applied for a job at the BBC as a driver’s assistant, moving scenery from stores to studio. He worked his way up the ladder to become a director of sitcoms such as Call It What You Like and Sykes and A …, starring Eric Sykes (both 1965).
He then moved to ITV and directed The Frost Programme (1967) before both producing and directing light-entertainment series featuring Max Bygraves and Frankie Howerd, and a string of hit sitcoms. They included Father Dear Father (1968-73) and The Many Wives of Patrick (1976-78), both with Patrick Cargill, and My Name Is Harry Worth (1974), starring the standup comedian. He also produced a revival of The Rag Trade (1977-78) and was producer-director of the last two series of Love Thy Neighbour (1975-76), which was as popular as Bless This House despite its controversial content. In between, he directed the 1973 film version of Father Dear Father. Stewart then remade some of these sitcoms for audiences in Australia.
Later, with his own Regent Productions company, he produced Lady Is a Tramp (1983-84) and The Bright Side (1985) for Channel 4 before returning to ITV to make The Nineteenth Hole (1989), a golfing sitcom written by Johnny Speight and starring Sykes.
Game shows and quizzes came into Stewart’s orbit when he was sent by ITV to the US to secure the formats to Family Feud, which he himself produced as Family Fortunes from 1980 to 1983, with Bob Monkhouse presenting, and The Price Is Right (1984-88), hosted by Leslie Crowther.
While working on these, he received a letter from a former BT sales manager, John M Lewis, with the idea for a TV quiz titled Twenty to One. Stewart paid £200 for a 12-month option to develop the idea. “That £200 was the best money I’ve spent in my life,” Stewart later said. With Regent Productions, Stewart took it to Channel 4 as Fifteen to One, reworking it to have 15 contestants being whittled down to three finalists. He considered John Stapleton and Jonathan Ross for the presenter’s role, but the channel wanted him and he hosted 2,265 episodes over 35 series, with almost 34,000 contestants and 350,000 questions.
In 1998, Stewart and Regent Productions successfully sued one contestant, Trevor Montague, for appearing more than once on the show, having lied on his application form. When, in an episode two years later, Stewart gave a lengthy talk advocating the return of the Elgin marbles to Greece, Channel 4 was censured by the Independent Television Commission, the television regulator. The show was axed in 2003 but revived 10 years later, initially as a celebrity special with Adam Hills, and a year later with Sandi Toksvig replacing Stewart, who had sold the format to Fremantle Media.
He also helped to turn around the Chris Evans-presented Don’t Forget Your Toothbrush (1994-95), broadcast on Channel 4 after two failed pilots, and hosted Countdown’s 1997 Christmas special, when the hosts Richard Whiteley and Carol Vorderman turned contestants. In 2010, he claimed to have been rejected as a Strictly Come Dancing contestant for being too old to insure.
At one point in the 1960s, Stewart was secretary to the Labour MP Tom Driberg. In 2009, he made a documentary investigating allegations that Driberg, whose homosexual liaisons were known at a time when such acts were illegal, was a KGB spy.
Stewart’s first two marriages, to Audrey Harrison (1960-76) and Geeson (1976-86), ended in divorce. He is survived by his third wife, the Fifteen to One voiceover artist Laura Calland, whom he married in 1997, as well as his children, Nick, from the first marriage, Barnaby and Hayley from the second, and Isobel and Hannah from his third.
• William Gladstone Stewart, TV presenter, producer and director, born 15 July 1933; died 21 September 2017
!!!@@@$$$

‘The best place to see Spanish art in the UK,” says Xavier Bray, director of the Wallace Collection in London, “is the Bowes Museum.” This remarkable institution in Barnard Castle, County Durham, exists because of the philanthropic instincts of its founders, John and Joséphine Bowes. He was British, the illegitimate son of the third Earl of Strathmore; she was a Frenchwoman who had acted on the Paris stage. Neither lived to see the Bowes open 125 years ago, but they bequeathed some remarkable pictures to the people of north-east England.
In 1862, their art adviser Benjamin Gogué wrote to them about El Greco and Goya, saying: “I have sold several pictures by these two masters. Although these two don’t appeal to you as artists, I think you might well take one of each for your collection.” They did, and the result is that Barnard Castle has what Bray, former curator of Spanish art at the National Gallery in London, calls “easily the greatest Goya portrait in the country”, a penetratingly intimate image of the painter’s friend, the poet, lawyer and prison reformer Juan Antonio Meléndez Valdés. It also has one of the best works made by El Greco, The Tears of St Peter. This subject, showing the saint in an agony of self-loathing after betraying Christ, was one that the Cretan artist returned to several times; there are at least six versions. This, however, is “the prime original”, says Bray.
Now, for the first time, these masterpieces, alongside a small but exquisite selection of Spanish paintings also drawn from the Bowes, can be seen (free) at the Wallace Collection, where they have been liberated from the somewhat congested “salon hang” of their regular home, and allowed to star in their own small-scale drama. The show’s faintly ecclesiastical atmosphere, with its dark, moody walls and dramatic lighting, is a reminder that most of these pictures were originally made for religious contexts, and that their acquisition by the Boweses was indirectly due to the confiscation of property in 1836 from the Spanish church by the liberal government of Juan Álvarez Mendizábal.
Much of the seized art flowed into museums; some of it, like the works the Boweses acquired from the widow of a Spanish aristocrat, wound up in private hands. This suppression of the monasteries, as Bray points out, is one of the moments in history when works such as The Immaculate Conception by José Antolínez (1635-1675), a highlight of the Wallace exhibition, stop being objects of religious veneration and start being art – objects of primarily aesthetic, rather than devotional or ritual value.
If this intimate exhibition is an ensemble drama, it has a star: the El Greco. This is not the lofty Peter who sits at the right hand of God, jangling the keys to heaven, but a man who knows he has done something utterly, unspeakably terrible. A moody composition in deep blues and mustards, in which the saint’s tear-swollen eyes cast upwards towards a stormy sky, it is, says Bray, “almost abstract expressionist” in its force and abandonment of realism.
Hanging opposite it, and in complete contrast, is the Goya: the lawyer-poet is depicted with his mouth slightly open as if about to speak, a flush of pinkish veins on his cheeks. Beside it, there’s another Goya masterpiece, of a very different order. Painted a few years earlier, it shows a scene in a prison. Ghostly figures slump over their chains, or lean haggard and half naked against walls. It’s part of a series of 12 works that confront us with the ugly truths of human nature. Other subjects include a madhouse, a bullfight, a fire in a theatre, and bandits shooting travellers.
Despite the element of reportage, though, the work has an intriguing relationship to realism. The light source is a blindingly white archway at the back of the scene that appears to have nothing to do with the architecture of an actual prison. It’s reminiscent of the strange light-flooded window in another Goya that hangs in Valencia Cathedral, in which St Francis Borgia prays at the deathbed of an impenitent sinner who is about to be consumed by an array of ravening, grotesque beasts from hell. For Goya, these little pieces on tinplate were the beginning of a stream of work that would lead to his dark, satirical and fantastical Caprichos prints – and, ultimately, to the great desolation of the Black Paintings of his later life.
One of the pleasures of the exhibition is the work by less well-known Spanish artists. Aside from the sensuous Immaculate Conception by Antolínez, with its Virgin reminiscent of a Venus rising from the waves, there is an intriguing full-length painting of St Eustochium by Juan de Valdés Leal (1622-1690), which once hung in a Hieronymite monastery in Seville. St Eustochium, daughter of a Roman senator, was a learned figure of the fourth century who read Latin, Greek and Hebrew, and assisted St Jerome in his translation of the Bible into Latin. St Jerome himself – a favourite subject for religious painters, with his friendly lion and his hermit’s cave – is here for once relegated to a little scene in the background and St Eustochium (scholar, housekeeper and nun) made the star. There’s also Antonio de Pereda’s Tobias Restoring His Father’s Sight, illustrating an episode from the apocryphal Book of Tobit. Tobias, according to the instructions of the angel in the foreground looking directly at us, beckoning us into the picture, is treating his father’s blinded eyes with the gall of the fish that lies on the ground, gutted. It’s a particularly splendid fish, since De Pereda, barely known in this country, was a particularly splendid painter of still lifes.
If there is a common thread among these works, so fortuitously amassed by the Boweses, it is their immediacy: even the artichokes, lemons and grapes in the two still lifes glow from their dark backgrounds with an almost terrifying intensity. St Francis levitates into a moody sky, his bloodshot eyes full of his ecstatic devotion to his God. Queen Mariana – that same queen, now much older, whose reflection glows in the mirror in Velázquez’s Las Meninas – gazes glumly out of Claudio Coello’s portrait from the 1680s-90s. St Andrew, in a work by El Greco’s pupil Luis Tristán de Escamilla (c1585-1624), goes to his death on an X-shaped cross amid a shadowy landscape, his flesh whitened as if by a flashbulb, for God has sent a blinding light to illuminate his last moments.
In their anguish and ecstasy, these are works that reel you in and implicate you in their dark, ferocious dramas.
• At the Wallace Collection, London, 27 September to 7 January. Details: 020-7563 9500.
!!!@@@$$$

The famed former Greek finance minister has an 11-year-old daughter, Xenia, in Australia. Knowing she will have learned about the indigenous inhabitants of that continent, he starts this paternal polemic on capitalism by twisting a familiar fact, asking why Aboriginal Australians didn’t invade Britain.
This sets the tone for a provocative, challenging, yet non-patronising analysis of the global economy: what it is, how it came to be and why it can never be apolitical. By using ancient myths, contemporary culture and family stories, Varoufakis makes the text intimate and accessible.
He may be one of our most celebrated economists, but he pulls no punches for fellow practitioners of the “gloomy science”, likening them to astrologers claiming to be astronomers. Concerned about our increasingly automated future, he encourages his child to make up her own mind. His advice, for all its imperfections, favours a Greek invention: democracy.
• Talking to My Daughter About the Economy by Yanis Varoufakis is published by Bodley Head (£14.99). To order a copy for £10.49 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

When I speak to Zoe Quinn, she’s worried.
The game developer is in Los Angeles for the west coast leg of her book tour, but she’s just had a serious threat made against her, directed at her next tour stop. She has to decide what to do. This comes on the heels of an appearance at New York’s historic bookstore the Strand, where Quinn gamely handled a man who jeered at her from the audience.
“He had to take the elevator three floors up to get to the event, and he didn’t realize he had to take the elevator back down,” Quinn tells me. Her heckler was stuck riding with Quinn’s fans and supporters.
Such is the life of a woman trying to take down online abusers.
Quinn’s book, the newly released Crash Override: How Gamergate (Nearly) Destroyed My Life and How We Can Win the Fight Against Online Hate, outlines how an act of domestic abuse by a former partner became a cultural phenomenon and put her on the run – literally.
In 2014, a man Quinn used to date published a nearly 10,000-word manifesto online designed to do as much damage possible to Quinn’s reputation while riling up an online mob. He made baseless claims about her sex life and relationships, and falsely accused her of having a relationship with a video game journalist for good reviews of her own games.
Before long, Quinn was fielding rape and death threats, was being doxxed, and people were even hacking into her voicemail. Someone changed her Wikipedia page to read that she died on 13 October, the date of her next speaking appearance.
Gamergate, as we now know it, was born. It was stalking gone viral.
Despite Quinn’s reservations about the criminal justice system, she went to law enforcement – at the very least to start a paper trail. But the police weren’t equipped to handle online abuse and threats.
“You need to put more personal information about yourself on the police report,” Quinn says. “So if you haven’t been doxxed yet, that’s a really easy way to be doxxed because police reports are public records.”
Quinn showed up with a zip drive, but the police didn’t know what to do with it. They wanted everything printed, even though some of the evidence Quinn was bringing them consisted of audio and video files. She did her best, though, and broke her friend’s printer in the process from overuse. There were also jurisdictional issues – where do you report a crime that happened online? – and the often impossible task of finding someone using just their username.
Quinn also says that the only reason she was able to navigate all of this was that she had pro bono help; the paperwork in itself is a full-time job. Someone with fewer connections or a smaller profile than Quinn would almost certainly not be able to do all the work involved in reporting extensive online harassment.
Still, it’s not as if the harassment ever really went away. Years later, Quinn still gets abuse.
To critics or novices who would offer that Quinn should simply get offline, shut the computer, log off Twitter – she points out that’s not really an option.
“I’m an independent game developer – there’s not exactly an offline version of that,” she says. “This is where my community is; everybody I’m close to I know because of the internet.”
Besides, the internet is the new public square. In the same way we wouldn’t expect a woman to prevent street harassment by never leaving her house, we cannot advise people to prevent online threats by just staying offline. And, really, Quinn says, do we want to just give it up?
“If that’s the solution to online abuse, what we’re saying is that we’re going to cede the internet to whoever screams the loudest at the most people, and just hand over this amazing technological achievement to the nastiest people,” she says.
And the truth of it is that today, online abuse and offline abuse meld together. Consider the threat to Quinn’s book event – the heckler yelling out at her from the back of of her New York talk. And with the rise of Donald Trump, a lot of the same people who used to spew vile racist and sexist threats anonymously on the internet feel emboldened to voice their hate openly. There is a reason many “alt-right” protesters are organizing online and showing up to events waving signs based on internet memes.
Quinn sees a connection too, between Gamergate and Trump’s online grassroots supporters.
“In terms of where the fake news was coming from and the infrastructure that was being used to propagate and spread stuff virally, a lot of it did come from the same people who were responsible for what happened to me,” she says. Quinn brings up the fact that Breitbart had her name as a keyword and art depicting her on the site.
Quinn’s critics see women like her in gaming and in online spaces – those who’d like to change the industry and online spaces to be less abusive – and believe their work amounts to infringement of free speech. As if a constant barrage of threats and abuse is simply an opinion they have every right to share.
But as Quinn writes in her book: “What about my father’s home address was an opinion?” This wasn’t free speech, but targeted silencing of Quinn.
A big theme of Quinn’s book is resilience – which makes sense, given how much she’s been through since the day her ex published his stalker manifesto online.
That’s why it’s so important that Quinn doesn’t just write about the difficulty of her situation, but also of others’. Marginalized communities – especially women of color, as well as LGBT community members – are more likely to be harassed online, and Quinn wants to make sure solutions are being offered as a way forward.
Since Gamergate, Quinn has continued to develop games and has launched an organization, also called Crash Override, to help victims of online abuse. She wants people to know the steps they can take to protect themselves online, but also ways they can help others who are being targeted.
!!!@@@$$$

If there were any doubts that romantic bliss might have dulled Simon Amstell’s neurotic edge, they’re allayed in the opening seconds of the first night of his new tour. He may be six years into a relationship, have just published his first book and made a splash with the recent TV mockumentary Carnage. But he still can’t help telling us – it’s the first thing he says – how undermined he feels by a single empty seat on the front row. Plus ca change, plus c’est le meme angst-ridden Amstell, laying bare his overthought emotional life in the name of our entertainment.
The new show is called What Is This?, with emphasis firmly on the middle word. The “this” is life, that mysterious thing Amstell can’t bring himself to just get on with like everyone else. After all: why? OK, so he’s not as riddled with self-loathing as he once was. Back then, he could barely get out of bed; now, “I get out of bed, but I don’t know why I’ve done it.” Existential angst, or wealthy man’s privilege? A bit of both. Amstell doesn’t remotely apologise for being famous – one droll gag finds him repaying his mum for the use of her womb by introducing her to Derren Brown. But it’s clear celebrity is just one more circle of alienation for a man whose every social interaction feels like an out-of-body experience.
It’s heartwarming to hear of his newfound happiness: he’s touching about the relationship here, as he traces his experience of learning to love and be loved. But, in the same way that he once addressed unhappiness with bewildered detachment, so, too, contentment is just something else to observe and analyse. That’s the stuff of the show’s final third, as Amstell shares his own and his partner’s unconventional rules on fidelity, and how several recent party experiences have scrambled his boundaries, and his sense of how lustily we all ought to be handling one another.
But most of What Is This? is retrospective. For the first time, Amstell tells his coming out story on stage – not only the telling-the-parents moment, but the several-year process of self-acceptance that preceded (and followed) it. Casting himself as comically naive and vulnerable, even in the early years of his celebrity, he recounts two experimental solo trips – to Paris, aged 18, then Miami at 21 – both tending to the irresistible conclusion: “Oh yes: gay.” But his family try to talk – or shock – him out of it, and their disapproval, internalised, proves hard to live down.
The middle section describes how he does so, as therapy and bitter experience teach Amstell that his dad isn’t an ogre, but “just a man, who doesn’t know what he is doing”. I’d have enjoyed this routine more if I hadn’t read it word for word in the previous weekend’s Guardian. Amstell starts the show with a joke about the deal he struck to publish transcripts of his live comedy. “Who for?,” he marvels, to which (now I know it includes new material as well as old) I can volunteer the answer: anyone who’d just love to know all the punchlines before they watch Amstell’s brand new show.
But it takes more than spoilers to spoil What is This?: a lovely hour that strikes a beautiful balance between perky and pained, anxious and ironic. Occasionally, justifying a laugh-free moment, he’ll claim he’s not trying to be funny, just wise. The best of his material – and there’s a real sense, early in the tour, that Amstell is enjoying delivering it – manages to be both at the same time.
!!!@@@$$$

A long-lost portrait of perhaps one of the most famous gay men in history by the Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens has been found in Glasgow.
The portrait showing George Villiers, the first Duke of Buckingham, thought to have been James VI and I’s lover, had been hanging in a National Trust for Scotland property and was believed to be a copy of the lost original, which had been missing for almost 400 years.
The masterpiece was spotted in the gallery of Pollok House by Dr Bendor Grosvenor from BBC4’s Britain’s Lost Masterpieces, who suspected that it could be the real deal.
The painting is the subject of an episode of the TV programme on Wednesday, which will show how layers of dirt and overpainting obscured Rubens’s trademark techniques.
Rubens, a pioneer of the Flemish Baroque tradition, is considered one of the most influential painters in history and his work is worth millions.
Conservation work carried out by the art restorer Simon Gillespie has returned the portrait, which belongs to Glasgow Museums, to its original state.
This allowed for a new assessment of its attribution and the painting was authenticated as a Rubens by Ben van Beneden, the director of the Rubenshuis in Antwerp.
A range of techniques were used in the process including dendrochronology – examining the tree rings of wood to date it – which showed that the panel on which the portrait was painted was likely to have been created in the early 1620s. It was also found to have been prepared in the manner used in Rubens’s studio.
An analysis of the alterations through cleaning and x-ray demonstrated that the painting could not be a copy, but was Rubens’s lost masterpiece.
Beneden concluded that the portrait was a “rare addition to Rubens’s portrait oeuvre, showing how he approached the genre”.
Grosvenor saw the painting while visiting the stately home with his wife and daughter “as regular punters”.
The self-confessed Rubens anorak said: “There was this painting further up by the fireplace and it sounds rather silly to say it, but it was a bit of a eureka moment and I thought: ‘My god, that looks like a Rubens.’ This picture just seemed to shine out.”
He returned the next day with a pair of binoculars and the following day with a ladder. “It wasn’t until we peeled it all back that we could be really sure. It’s one thing for an optimist like me to have a hunch, but quite another to prove it,” Grosvenor said.
The process took two months in total. “Our restorer, Simon, is a wizard at these things. I don’t mind admitting that I get rather emotional when you see the layers being peeled back and you begin to be one of the first people to see it how Rubens intended,” he said.
The portrait is a study for a larger painting. “It’s just a sketch, but in the 18th and 19th century, unfinished work wasn’t as appreciated as it is today, so you get a lot of pictures which are finished off by later artists. So this was tidied up by someone and as a result, it began to look very stiff and more like a copy,” he said.
The final painting was destroyed in a fire in 1949, so it is very fortunate to have found this version, Grosvenor said.
Although the Duke of Buckingham’s personal relationship with James VI and I is much debated, the king referred to Buckingham as his husband, and their relationship scandalised the court. In 1628, the duke was assassinated at the age of 35, three years after James died.
It was known that Rubens had painted a portrait of Buckingham in about 1625, but the work had been regarded as lost by art historians for almost 400 years.
Grosvenor said: “The chance to discover a portrait of such a pivotal figure in British history by one of the greatest artists who ever lived has been thrillingly exciting.
“I hope it inspires many people to visit Glasgow’s museums, some of the finest in the country. ”
The rediscovered Rubens painting will go on display at Glasgow Museums’ flagship gallery, Kelvingrove, on Thursday, after the BBC4 programme has aired.
David McDonald, the chair of Glasgow Life, which runs the museums service, said: “Unsurprisingly, we are beyond delighted to discover the painting is by Rubens, an artist renowned globally as one of the most important painters in history.”
McDonald said Glasgow was proud of its extensive art collection and it had been a joy to work with the TV programme.
“We are excited to give as many people as possible the opportunity to see Rubens’s masterpiece in person,” he said. “George Villiers is sure to become one of the undoubted highlights of any visit to Kelvingrove.”
Karen Cornfield, the property manager for Pollok House, said it was exciting news for Glasgow. “We hope the programme will encourage visitors to come to Pollok, explore the collection and learn more about the family who brought so many great artworks to Glasgow,” she said.
!!!@@@$$$

Born in Halifax, West Yorkshire, Christopher Bailey graduated from the Royal College of Art with a master’s degree in 1994. After stints as a womenswear designer at Donna Karan and Gucci, he joined Burberry in 2001 as design director. In 2009, he became chief creative officer and from 2014 to July 2017 was also Burberry’s CEO; since July, he has had a dual role as chief creative officer and president. In 2009, Bailey was awarded an MBE, in 2013 an honorary doctorate and in 2014 was named GQ’s designer of the year. Here We Are, a photography exhibition about 20th-century British life, curated by Bailey and writer Lucy Kumara Moore, is at Old Sessions House, London EC1 until 1 October.
I am currently dipping in and out of Alan Bennett’s diaries, which I love. Bennett’s Yorkshire-ness is so evident in his writing and feels very familiar and personal to me. He has such a wonderful, distinctive voice and it seems impossible to read any of his work without hearing it. This book in particular feels the most revealing about the way he thinks and sees the world: it’s frank, candid, disarming and brilliantly funny in places.
One of my favourite ever films is Educating Rita – so brilliantly acted by Julie Walters and Michael Caine. It’s a magnificent portrayal of human beings navigating the complexities of perception, class and expectations – uplifting, hopeful and optimistic but also tragic and depressing. Another film that has stayed with me more recently is Lion – it’s tender and tragic and extraordinary on so many levels. It’s wonderful to see a film capture human emotions with such grace and power. Each of the actors in the film was exceptional, but Dev Patel and Sunny Pawar were out of this world. It was very moving watching Dev play such a complex part with such visceral sensitivity and unbelievable to see an eight-year-old give such a sophisticated, layered and passionate performance.
I have a fairly eclectic taste with music. This is reflected in my first experiences of live music: the very first concert I went to as a kid was Bob Dylan and I shall be a lifelong fan; the second was the Gypsy Kings. Right now, I love what Loyle Carner is doing – I love the honesty, the grittiness and the heart that he puts into his music. He feels like a breath of fresh air and the emotions feel so authentic to who he is and the experiences he has had. When he welcomed his mum on stage at Glastonbury I thought it was an incredibly beautiful and tender moment.
I was blown away by this. It is so powerful and beautifully shot, depicting a world that seems impossible to imagine yet also unbelievably, eerily possible. We were hooked from the opening scene. I had the pleasure of watching Elisabeth Moss a few years ago in London in an incredible production called The Children’s Hour; both she and Keira Knightley were completely outstanding. I am so delighted to see Elisabeth recognised at the Emmys a few days ago – she is a real talent.
It is always an absolute treat and privilege to eat here. The team that the brilliantly clever and lovely Ruthie Rogers (and Rose Gray) have built are like a family welcoming you into their home. The food is consistently delicious and the warm, unstuffy atmosphere is the perfect place for big family-and-friends dinners or a romantic supper for two. I have lots of favourites when I’m there, and am always excited to see their drink of the day. They also do an incredible stinco di vitello (veal shank) and the sorbets are out of this world. It is authentic to the core. And if you’re really, really lucky, you might even see Ruthie’s husband – the titan of architecture, Richard Rogers.
I have always been a huge admirer of David Hockney, having grown up around Salts Mill in Yorkshire, which has one of my favourite permanent collections of his. So when his latest major retrospective opened earlier this year next door to our design studios, at Tate Britain, I was overjoyed. It was incredible – completely different to the epic show A Bigger Picture at the Royal Academy in 2012 but equally powerful and special. It is spectacular to see Hockney’s creativity and curious mind, and I get the same thrill seeing his work today as I did when I first discovered it as a kid in Yorkshire. I’m hoping to get to see the show in Paris at the Pompidou – I am desperate to see his series of self-portraits.
I recently saw this at the Gielgud and it is one of the most powerful plays I have seen. I was slightly intimidated at the thought of sitting there for three and a half hours, but the second it started those hours disappeared with hardly a blink. The story of the Troubles in Northern Ireland is dealt with in such a real and passionate way and the actors were so extraordinary. It felt like a real privilege to live in London and to see such brilliantly bold, creative theatre.
!!!@@@$$$

In the perfectly paced, middle-aged, middle-class drama that completes Jeffrey Eugenides’s first collection of short stories, a famous physics professor “watches his life implode” after an ill-advised one-night stand with a high school student who has a trick up her sleeve. We’ve already been treated to a country music radio consultant with a restraining order against his family, and a music teacher about to get a visit from the bailiff for defaulting on the payments for his clavichord. It’s fair to say that, in Fresh Complaint, men are well intentioned enough, but also pathetic and faintly absurd.
There are plenty of women in these stories, written over the past 22 years, but Eugenides is particularly adept at piercing the darker, unsaid inner thoughts of husbands and fathers. Charlie is, as he freely admits in Find the Bad Guy, a “defective husband” to a woman who only married him for a green card. He works out – too late – the key to a good relationship. “At breakfast you pass the jam. You ask: ‘How was your day?’ and pretend to care. Stuff like that really works.”
It’s this kind of enjoyable wry wit that makes Fresh Complaint so entertaining. There are probably a few too many occasions when ostensibly comfortable, middle-class lives are thrown into crisis by bad choices, provoked by money or sex – moments when you want to tell these people to grow up. But maybe that’s Eugenides’s point. They can’t.
So when the author ventures out of such safe ground, more interesting things happen. Air Mail was selected by editor E Annie Proulx for The Best American Short Stories collection back in 1997, and while it has aged well – the gap year protagonist, Mitchell, writes tortuously overthought letters to his parents back home rather than FaceTiming them – it must be the only story to begin with a detailed description of the horrors of dysentery (“with a series of shudders, it dropped, and he exploded into water”) and end with homespun enlightenment.
Dedicated Eugenides watchers will recognise Mitchell from The Marriage Plot, and some of the problems with that 2011 novel have their genesis here: you can’t tell whether the author is mocking Mitchell’s new age ramblings or sympathising with them. There are also seeds of 2002’s Middlesex in the brilliantly titled The Oracular Vulva, from 1999: both explore intersexual characteristics, in this case in the depths of the jungle where a researcher is trying not to submit to the local custom – being pleasured by young boys.
All of which is positively middle-of-the-road compared with Baster, in which a fortysomething television producer desperate for a child holds a house party to collect the semen of men on a pre-selected list. But in the amplified craziness there’s genuine sadness, also explored in the book’s opening tale of a lonely 88-year-old woman sliding into dementia and taken out of her care home by a well-meaning younger woman (divorced, naturally) on a Thelma & Louise-style road trip.
The story ends – and the overall impression of Eugenides the short story writer is that he’s a fine exponent of the satisfying denouement – with the heartbreaking “Keep going. Maybe she’d meet someone out there, maybe she wouldn’t. A friend.” Fresh Complaint is a bit like that – fleeting visits from characters with whom you’d like to spend a little time. But not too much.
• Fresh Complaint by Jeffrey Eugenides is published by 4th Estate (£16.99). To order a copy for £14.44 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

I n a tranquil corner of Preston, Lancashire, there is a modest Georgian terrace with a handsome park below it and a river – the Ribble – running alongside it. It is here that the artist Lubaina Himid has lived for more than 20 years. She is, at 63, being celebrated as the oldest Turner prize nominee since the prize, in a belatedly sensible move, changed its rules – the cut-off point used to be 50. But age, it will turn out, is the least interesting thing about Himid – whose work has originality, political drive and youthful verve. And besides, in a year of cosmopolitan Turner prize nominees, with artists with roots in Palestine, Germany and the Caribbean, she is not the only artist over 50. What is far more significant is that she has been, art critics seem to agree, inexplicably undervalued throughout her career. Now, for what it is worth, she is also the bookies’ favourite to win. It would seem that her moment has – at last – come and I can’t wait to meet her, having fallen in love with the work I have already seen.
On either side of the front path, topiaried box shapes stand guard, leading to a pale yellow front door. This is a long way from Zanzibar, I reflect, where she was born. I ring the bell and Himid appears at the front door with a lovely, welcoming smile: mannishly dressed with chic specs and with just the tiniest touch of Mrs Tiggy Winkle about the intensity of her stance, although her clothes are cooler: caramel coloured brogues, gorgeous blue shirt, smart trousers. She is professor of contemporary art at the University of Central Lancashire and, while making tea, explains how much she loves her job, learning something new, every day, from her students – living proof that teaching need not inhibit creativity. She is a Preston devotee, too, singing the praises of its art gallery and green spaces, although, at one point, she volunteers that Preston, as a city, is “not quite sure of itself”. The lack of sureness – the absence of swank – is not unlike Himid herself. She brims with ideas but is never pushy in expressing them. And beyond the small talk, her feelings about the city count, if only because one of the greatest preoccupations of her work is what it means to belong.
I was bowled over, I tell her, by her show Warp and Weft (ends 1 October) at Colchester’s Firstsite gallery – a selection of work from Invisible Strategies at Modern Art Oxford, and Navigation Charts at Spike Island in Bristol, the shows that earned her the Turner prize nomination. You walk into the exhibition space – and stop short. The room is full of people, a painted crowd. You stroll among her figures as you might between trees. The piece is Naming the Money (2004) and the figures taller than I am (I’m 5ft 5in), painted on flat wood like exuberant scenery. Turbaned, dressed in glorious colours, they have a splendour that’s complicated for these are slaves from the royal courts of 18th-century Europe.
Each figure, imagined by Himid, has two names – a birth name and a name imposed by an 18th-century slave-owner. They form five groups: herbalists, artists, musicians, dog-trainers and map-makers. She has made 100 of them (70 lodge in Colchester). What is striking is the contrast between their animation and their perfect stillness in the moment Himid has made for them – one has a dog, in harlequin costume jumping up, another a yellow pail of paint brushes ready for use, another is poised to play a drum. As you consider them, you listen to a soundtrack, in Himid’s gentle speaking voice, an account of who each person was and who they have become, a repeated transformation of each renamed slave – a mix of melancholy, idiosyncrasy and pride.
“My name is Penda
They call me Polly
I used to paint the shields
Now I wash the floors
But I have the patterns.”
Having the patterns is essential to Himid’s work. I look at a slave, in a double-breasted jacket with little yellow swirls down his left side and asymmetrical tights – the patterning jauntily indestructible. “I made the figures, wrote the texts, then matched text to figures.” Match-making? “Absolutely – my work is about brokering.”
It is unusual, I say, to see slavery approached in such a festive way – I find the affirmation moving. Why such exuberance?
“If you walk through the markets of Accra, or south London, you’ll be walking among hundreds of exuberant people of the world, yet many are descendants of slaves. You go to a Jewish wedding and the people survive, understand, carry their history. They are stronger than history, that is the point. My figures say: ‘You tell me your story, I’ll tell you mine.’”
Each figure “makes the most enormous effort, as most of us probably do – women more than men – to make the very best of where we find ourselves”. She made the piece at a time when, in her own life, she was starting to understand how “useful and enriching it was, every day, to try to make that day work”.
“I’m not in the business of making work where I repeat the trauma. My work is about attempting to belong, about understanding who we are as black people in the diaspora, how much we have contributed across Europe in terms of culture, building, the wealth of the European machine. Never mind the American machine, that’s a whole other story. My work is a kind of handbook – I think of it as a sort of car manual – to deal with the ghosts of what has happened.”
Himid belongs to what Felix Petty in i-D magazine recently described as the “generation of émigrés, immigrants and refugees” who have formed a “vital part of Britain’s multicultural postwar story; leaving an indelible mark upon our island”. In a recent interview, she touched on the subject of refugees in connection with her work – could she expand on this?
For me, there will always be a struggle with belonging, although the advantages outweigh the disadvantages
“We have an easy, lazy way of saying ‘refugees’. I think about people being actual people – each one born out of someone’s womb. So if you were to say, off the boat today came Mohammed or David or John and then added that, before they left, they were a carpenter, a doctor, a teacher… it is then they would start to breathe.” She sees “refugees” as a lifeless term: “We must not do this distancing – we are none of us more important than others.”
In the 80s, Himid was one of the pioneers of the British black arts movement. How much has changed since then?
“What has changed radically is that in terms of the media, television, advertisements, films, newspapers and magazines, black people, in the 80s, were totally invisible. The only way you could see yourself was by looking in the mirror. So making ourselves visible was the purpose of our work.”
At Battersea Arts Centre, she organised the work of other black artists and aimed to show young people that being creative was powerful. She also wanted “everyone we knew to understand that, if you paid your taxes, you owned everything in the damned museum. Lots of people still don’t understand that. We wanted to encourage conversations, about politics, beauty, expertise, in places that were as free as being in the street. Black people want to have those conversations too.”
A piece made during this period, to be included in the Turner prize show, is a cut-out pastiche of Hogarth’s satirical series of paintings about a dissolute English upper class, Marriage A-la-Mode (1743). A Fashionable Marriage (1986) dramatises racial politics: “It is the countess’s morning levee after she has slept with her lover, the lawyer. She has a castrato singing, her hairdresser, a young girl and two black servants listening. They are all disguising the fact she is making another arrangement to see her lover while the count is away. In my cut-out installation, she is Mrs Thatcher, her lover Ronald Reagan, the people are mostly from the art world: the critic, the dealer, 1980s artists, eager feminists…” A virtuoso piece, it is brazen in its details. Not far from the bride is written: “The white of a plot.”
It is not that Himid now thinks black invisibility is a non-issue. Far from it. But she says: “What I am trying to do now is tell more subtle stories about what it means to have ghosts and traces of crimes coursing through every day and to show it is somehow possible to make a decent life nonetheless.” Her newest work, which will be displayed in the Turner prize show, is Le Rodeur: The Lock. “Rodeur” (“stalker”) is the name of a slave ship that set sail for Guadeloupe from the Bight of Biafra in 1819, carrying 22 crew and 162 slaves. Her work is about the “traces of a terrible incident” in which everybody, with one exception, went blind (an eye disease that spread like fire). The captain, in hope of insurance compensation, threw 36 stricken slaves overboard. The story is taken from an economic historian’s report. “When they arrived in Guadeloupe, indigenous people offered them herbs. Some got their sight back but many Africans were lost.”
What moments do her paintings describe? “They don’t – that’s the point, they’re about how the drama courses through this room. Even telling this story now, you and I will be seeing different things.” I look at images on Himid’s iPad: surreal, contemporary, tense – there is no slavish (if the adjective passes in the context) illustration, these paintings are an unnerving extrapolation, they are about memory and responsibility. The story is about blindness, the work about vision. It is crammed with hints: a woman trying to get up in blind panic from a yellow couch; an unappeasable grey sea through a cabin window; the shocked features of the man in the purple gilet standing by; and a lock, a conspicuous, disturbing, surreal motif – the spanner in the works.
Himid’s uncanny gift is to investigate the afterlife of history, to see how it pervades each of us like a dye. In her imaginatively ambitious work Cotton.com (2002), a long brass plaque (it extends across a gallery wall) is engraved as follows: “He said I looked like a painting by Murillo as I carried water for the gang just because I balanced the bucket on my head.” She found a version of this sentence in Manchester’s Portico library: “The book was a plantation inspector’s report, an Englishman sent to Carolina. This extraordinary phrase jumped out at me. I couldn’t leave it with him, I had to give her agency.” The brass plaque focuses on art’s uneasy relationship to suffering – looking like a Murillo does not lighten the weight of the woman’s water bucket.
But where Himid takes a huge imaginative leap is in turning text by Lancashire mill workers and enslaved Africans into patterns. Cotton.com is a detailed, infinitely varied, wordless dialogue in black and white – nothing crudely polarised. “All my work is saying: let’s put this on the table, communicate, negotiate, see what is the same about us, glory in the differences.” The Turner prize show will reintroduce her splendidly shocking piece, entitled with sombre humour, Swallow hard: the Lancaster Dinner Service (2007). “Service” takes on a sinister hue as English ceramics become hosts to images of slavery. A traditional serving dish in blue-and-white, with dainty gold handles, has a portrait of a black woman on its lid: her expression is unhappy and watchful, another world in her gaze. Himid understands the power of the hybrid intimately. To what extent might this stem from being mixed race herself?
Himid’s father was from Zanzibar, her mother Lancastrian. “The thing about having a white English mother and black father is you can see life in two ways. You can see it as a place where you can’t belong. There have been times, places, spaces where that’s been true. I don’t think this subject has been discussed enough. For some people it [being mixed race] is very difficult. But if you put your mind to it, attempt to understand what being human is, you can have many more insights into how things work and experiences that are a privilege. For me, there will always be a struggle with belonging, although the advantages outweigh the disadvantages.”
Himid’s father and mother met and fell in love in London in the early 50s. Her father was studying education at London university, her mother was at the Royal College of Art. “They’d go to wild parties with African students…” When her father returned to Zanzibar, he “sent for” her mother. Did her mother ever talk about how she felt about moving to Zanzibar?
“It was a massive thing to do then,” says Himid, “but she is a rather pragmatic, cool woman.”
Lubaina was born in 1954, named after “one of the numerous handmaidens of Mohammed – a lesser one, not up there with Fatima”. Her mother had been in Zanzibar only two years when her father fell ill.
“My father would get malaria every year but one year he got it and was dead within the week. My mother couldn’t go home at once. She agreed to do the traditional 40 days and 40 nights [of mourning] alone. She could have stayed. Or she could have left me behind – the family would have brought me up.”
Was it painful for her father’s family to let her go? “I think so – losing him first, then me. He died in early November. By Christmas Eve I was in Blackpool, where my English grandmother lived.” Lubaina was four months old.
Does she wonder what her life would have been like if she had stayed in Zanzibar? “I absolutely do. But I think I have tried to do whatever it is I would have done. I would have taught. I’d have always wanted to teach.” Her mother, she explains, was a fabric designer. African-inspired textiles? “No – paisleys and stripes for Marks & Spencer. Lots of her textiles appeared on the high street. I might have done what I do in a lot of my paintings and design kangas [sarongs].”
Has she been back to Zanzibar? “For many years I didn’t go. It took me so long. I was worried about returning, but when I got there in 1997 it was like being in Manchester – familiar and easy to belong. Everybody in the street looked the same and different as I do. It is a place of many crossroads, although there were more sets of people there when I was born… the whole gamut of people in a place that is about trade.”
She grew up in north London, went to Maida Vale high school for girls, studied theatre design at Wimbledon College of Arts (graduating in 1976) and went on to the Royal College (getting her master’s in 1984). Her work is indebted to theatre. She rejoices in the memory of Peter Brook’s work and the thrill of going to Blackpool Tower circus with its blue, pink and green fountains and its trapeze artists. Audience matters to her. “When people come to see my work, I want them to bring their own story to the space because I’ve attempted to bring mine and other people’s – big political debates and simple stories about love and loss. I want the gallery – or even Folkestone beach, where I have a public art piece (a jelly mould pavilion) – to be where those conversations begin.”
Growing up, she appreciated the “Europeanness” of London but has discovered over the years that “belonging is not about geographical place”. It is about “particular friends, mostly women, mostly artists with whom I belong”. She adds: “I belong in making places too: studios, workshops, kitchens and sheds.”
We go up to her studio, a first-floor room with three sash windows and sunlight pouring in. And I finally get round to asking – a measure of how much else there has been to talk about – how she feels about being nominated for the Turner prize, and about being the oldest nominee.
“I’m sure this is true of everybody of 63 but I feel 45. It keeps surprising me. I feel a bit of a fraud but, clearly, I am 63. I’m aware of more years behind me than in front and that’s sobering because there are a lot of paintings I still want to make. I’ve always been in a bit of a hurry. I’ve made a lot of work. Death was in my mind from an early age.” No need to unpack that remark.
So death is a spur? “Yes, come on, come on – make some more!” And is being a nominee galvanising or stressful? “I find it a little stressful because I do want to make a beautiful show.” In terms of galvanising, she says the nomination has brought with it opportunities to work with people that might otherwise have been slow to materialise “and that is really nice”.
Does she feel competitive? “I’m classically uncompetitive – to my chagrin. I once did this walk, which is meant to be 36 miles from Keswick, to Barrow. At 30 miles, I thought: ‘Do you know something? I’ve had enough.’” She laughs: “My life is not about winning in that way.”
The Turner Prize Exhibition is at the Ferens gallery, Hull, from 26 September - 7 January, 2018. The winner will be announced on 5 December
!!!@@@$$$

This bittersweet debut feature from Maysaloun Hamoud is a spiky treat, an empowering tale of three Palestinian women living in Tel Aviv, each fighting their own battles for independence and fulfilment. Balancing tragicomic relationship blues with sharp sociopolitical observation, Hamoud’s slyly subversive drama draws us deep into an often hidden world. As the title suggests, these women occupy a liminal space, caught between freedom and repression, religion and secularism, the past and the future. Theirs is a world in flux, in which the drugs and partying of the underground scene stand in stark contrast to the strict hypocrisies that dominate the cultural landscape. As one of them tells her devout father: “Some people live in palaces, but God knows what their life is like inside…”
Laila (Mouna Hawa) is a force of nature, a chain-smoking, leather-jacketed lawyer who can drink and snort the boys under the table and takes pride in overturning the conventions of her profession and her gender. She lives with Salma (Sana Jammalieh), an aspiring DJ who works long hours in kitchens and bars and whose strict Christian parents don’t know she’s gay. When strait-laced and studious Nour (Shaden Kanboura) arrives from Umm al-Fahm in northern Israel, the ultra-conservative Muslim lifestyle she leads is out of step with that of her new flatmates. No wonder Nour’s sanctimonious fiance, Wissam (Henry Andrawes), worries about their influence, eager to bring the marriage forward and remove his bride from such corrupting company.
At first glance, these women have very different goals and ambitions. Yet scratch the surfaces of their lives and the problems each face are not so dissimilar. Laila is in a whirlwind romance with Ziad (Mahmood Shalabi), who embraces her free spirit but becomes critical of the way she talks, dresses and smokes when his family are around. Salma may have found love in the arms of trainee doctor Dounia (Ahlam Canaan), but only as long as they can keep their relationship secret from Salma’s mother, who is desperate to marry her off, and her father who threatens her with talk of the madhouse. As for Nour, she discovers in horrifying fashion just what is expected of the wife of an apparently upstanding citizen in a gruelling sequence that is made all the more alarming by Hamoud’s sensitive directorial discretion.
In a Sight & Sound magazine interview, Hamoud calls this “an authentic picture of a kind of invisible life that we live here as a younger generation of Palestinians” and it’s a claim that seems to ring true. Nothing about the lives of these women appears false or phoney, even when the narrative takes credibility-stretching detours into contrived revenge drama. Anchoring it all is a terrific ensemble cast that mixes experienced actors with first-time performers; Jammalieh, for example, is a real-life DJ and graphic designer, playing a character close to home.
Director of photography Itay Gross’s loose-limbed camerawork adds to the vérité vibe, giving the performers room to breathe and ensuring that their environment remains a core part of the drama. Meanwhile, a thrumming soundtrack, which includes contributions from Palestinian hip-hop artists DAM, provides a heady and infectious backdrop to the alternative lifestyle milieu.
Inevitable comparisons have been made with Lena Dunham’s Girls and Sex and the City, but this has more in common with the feistiness of Pedro Almodóvar’s early anarchic friendship fable Pepi, Luci, Bom and Other Girls Like Mom than with either of those small-screen US antecedents. Citing directors Ken Loach and Hany Abu-Assad as influences, Hamoud identifies herself as part of a new wave of realist Palestinian cinema, looking beyond the conflicts of the West Bank and Gaza, and putting women proudly centre stage. Yet she is not afraid to portray the price of freedom in a patriarchal world – the closing shot of In Between is a masterful exercise in ambiguity, as enigmatic as the final moments of The Graduate or The Long Good Friday, in which the characters’ silence speaks volumes.
Hamoud, too, has paid a price. After being criticised for taking Israeli state funding, she found herself the subject of death threats and fatwas from fundamentalists, accused of disparaging or corrupting Muslim women, particularly in areas such as Umm al-Fahm. Elsewhere, In Between has been rapturously received, with Hamoud receiving the Women in Motion Young Talents award at this year’s Cannes festival. Isabelle Huppert, who selected her for the award, declared that “the free spirited and joyful women [Hamoud] portrays… are true heroines of our time”. That’s a sentiment with which I wholeheartedly concur.
!!!@@@$$$

Before a snare is hit, before LCD Soundsystem supremo James Murphy starts gesticulating at the monitor sound desk, there is a charge in the air. It telegraphs the delight that, to paraphrase one of LCD Soundsystem’s album titles, this is actually happening.
A gig that should not have been, this second night in Glasgow promotes a fourth LCD album – the recently released American Dream – that should not have been, either. Lairy gratitude informs the dancing that erupts with the first keyboard blobs of Get Innocuous!, LCD’s perfect set-opening gambit. Second only to Oasis as a lauded pilferer of others’ catalogues, Murphy grafts the vocals of David Bowie on to the synth lines of Kraftwerk, somehow making it sound all LCD. (A fab graphic rendition online illustrates the track’s structure.)
This Soundsystem was meant to be boxed up in storage, crystal displays extinguished, its leader deep into his next obsession: fatherhood, coffee or, indeed, other sound systems (Despacio, a high-fidelity mobile clubbing rig). Murphy, a keen observer of the minutiae of greatness, dreamed up the perfect murder of his band: farewell stint at New York’s Madison Square Garden (2011), documentary and box set of the performance (2014). LCD’s iconic status would be assured.
And then Murphy sabotaged his own narrative arc. Fortunately, American Dream was well worth the recall. A No 1 in the US, it revises the LCD story line: an about-face turned into triumph. You wanted a hit? asked one old LCD song, tetchily. They have one now.
Soon, LCD are feeding their new songs into the dense mix of analogue synths, live instrumentation, monstrously good percussion and Murphy’s gruff-camp frontmanship. Having taken some steroids since its recorded version, Call the Police is just great, beginning with an existential slump – “We all know this is nothing,” croons Murphy, Zen-like – climbing up through LCD’s gears, towards another lyrical depth charge: “We do the best we can!”
If American Dream is about anything, it is how to live now – obliquely, of course, via the lens of music, relationships, regrets and Murphy’s hangdog “kids today!” observations. Soon, I Used To finds the nostalgic Murphy channelling his inner Robert Smith, icy early 80s synths throbbing around the room.
The LCD of this American Dream tour are not so much a band reborn as subtly evolved, eight-strong now, and sounding like it. Gavin Russom came out as transgender in July and, tonight, inhabits a 1930s bathing beauty persona while issuing penetrating oscillations from mission control at the back. Nancy Whang’s hair is bigger than you remember, but her playing is just as punctilious and LCD’s secret weapon deservedly gets a mid-set chant of her name.
Seeing this reinforced, even more mighty setup anew, they make virtually all other bands look like amateurs
Murphy spends the gig messing with drummer Pat Mahoney, trying to put this syncopated human metronome off his stride. Tyler Pope (also of the band !!!) put some good music out in the summer and makes a face at Murphy when Losing My Edge – LCD’s first anthem, to music snobbery, ageing and how punk dance music can sound – doesn’t last as long as some other versions. “We’ve only got 20 minutes left!” frets Murphy, pointing at the large digital countdown on stage (he’s the kind of guy who uses a set book, not just a setlist). Multi-instrumentalists Al Doyle (Hot Chip), Korey Richey and Matt Thornley swap, feed back, solo and make for double-drummer assaults.
Seeing this reinforced, even more mighty setup anew, they make virtually all other bands look like amateurs for stopping between songs. LCD are the masters of the segue, skilfully dovetailing a slew of mid-set songs into a seamless DJ mix, with a punky synth freak-out woven in.
Ecstatic cheers ring out when a Giorgio Moroder bass line drops into You Wanted a Hit (“Perfect,” mouths Murphy, either to Mahoney or the monitor mix person). Soon, the groove becomes Tribulations (New Order is the source here), which in turn evolves via Movement into a long workout of Yeah (disco and acid house). Gradually, this beast then morphs into Someone Great, one of LCD’s seals of quality. Grappling with grief at the death of a therapist, Murphy seems to be singing about everyone else too: Bowie, Lou Reed… the list goes grimly on.
If American Dream had to punch very hard to equal LCD’s catalogue, its jaw-shattering right hook is Tonite. Another exquisite distillation of how all life passes through the prism of music, it’s about how we’re all going to die. Our time is finite, but tunes can make it “feel like for ever”. LCD’s execution stayed, we dance on for now.
!!!@@@$$$

If you’re afraid to write it, that’s a good sign. I suppose you know you’re writing the truth when you’re terrified.” These words in black type on a white background make up one of poet Yrsa Daley-Ward’s  Instagram posts. This monochrome snapshot of her innermost thoughts has more than 5,200 “likes”. That’s more than double the number she gets for any pictures. Daley-Ward spent her late teens and early 20s as a model struggling to pay her rent in London, working for brands such as Apple, Topshop, Estée Lauder and Nike. She still models today. Ironically, however, it was the image-obsessed medium of Instagram that enabled her to pursue the written word.
“I always was a writer,” she explains today in a thick Lancashire accent, sitting in a downtown Los Angeles restaurant close to where she lives. “But I was depressed [in London] and that made me choke. Modelling is an interesting profession because it teaches you so much about here…” She points a finger at her face. “But not here…” she sighs and points at her heart. “You become introverted, you disappear into yourself.”
‘I didn’t fit in. I wanted to be white, have different hair, know my father, not be religious…’
Daley-Ward’s debut collection of poetry, Bone, is anything but introverted. Aptly titled, it’s a visceral read candidly documenting her religious upbringing, sexuality and mental-health battles. It flew out of her in three months, as she chronicled her bad love affairs, sense of isolation and feelings of inadequacy – an uncomfortable, uninhibited read. Daley-Ward is a self-confessed firestarter and has a colourful past. She doesn’t watch TV and prefers to go to the pub to drink Guinness and “chat to old men about their lives”. When asked to give her age, she refuses. “Men don’t get asked,” she barks.
She finds the notion of being objectified irksome. In a bodycon dress today, she tells me she’s been cat-called “seven times” en route here. “Why the fuck? Look at the patriarchy, look at rape culture. I don’t need to be subjected to what men think.” With her poems she cuts through that, deep into the parts of herself that she feels have been overseen by superficial, homogenous norms.
Bone was initially released in 2014 through Amazon’s self-publishing arm. It’s since been expanded for reissue via Penguin. Daley-Ward’s 116,000 and growing Instagram fanbase was key to that. Having followers like pop star Florence & the Machine and Hollywood actor Ellen Page also helps.
Daley-Ward read everything she could get her hands on as a kid: Roald Dahl, Spike Milligan, Shakespeare. As a young, black, LGBTQ female, she’s often said that she feels “invisible”in the literary world and maintains that poetry has a long way to go to diversify itself.
“Have I seen change? Yes and no,” she says. “There’s a lot more to do. If it wasn’t for the internet how would I have got the book out? How would I have got a publisher? If I went to a publisher armed with Bone and zero internet following…” She tapers off, suggesting they’d have looked right past her. “I didn’t know what to expect. I just persevered.”
Alongside the African-American poet Nayyirah Waheed, Zimbabwean bard Tapiwa Mugabe and Nigerian writer Ijeoma Umebinyuo, Daley-Ward, who is of West Indian and West African descent, is part of a small, elite community of black writers who are breaking down barriers. “It’s lovely to see women of colour poets,” she says. “Old poetry can be so inaccessible. Not just for people of colour but for people who aren’t super erudite, who don’t read, don’t love Shakespeare. Some people just want to connect with feelings.”
The melting pot of Downtown LA is a far cry from home in Chorley. She was born in the northern town after her Jamaican mother (a nurse) had an extra-marital affair with a Nigerian man who came to the UK to study, leaving his wife and children behind. He died before Daley-Ward was old enough to meet him.
From the age of seven to 11 she was sent, with her younger brother, to live with her grandparents. They were Seventh Day Adventists. Daley-Ward describes them as “strict religious fundamentalists”. “From sunset on Friday we couldn’t do anything until sunset on Saturday,” she recalls. “During the week everything was monitored. We didn’t go outside except to see my cousins.”
‘Sex work is common among models. It’s not standing on street corners – you have boyfriends who are very rich’
Growing up fast, she was ingrained with certain gender expectations; rules that existed to be broken. “They’d tell me that a girl should be able to run a house. Every Sunday my grandma and I would be on our knees handwashing all the clothes. I learned how to clean, sew and cook. I never make my bed now.”
At the time, Daley-Ward bottled up her frustrations. When she returned to live with her mother, she was left to raise her brother while her mum worked night shifts. “Things changed completely,” she remembers. “There was all the freedom where we once had no freedom.”
As well as the liberation that came with her own sexual awakening, she gained a more rounded perspective on a woman’s place in the world. Her mum’s boyfriends weren’t always the most desirable choices. “She was the one with the money, working hard. She never received help from men, ever.” That gave birth to a sense of staunch independence in her, combined with a streak of disruption. “I’m a quiet, introverted person, but I was very internally rebellious.”
Conflict continued to bubble up inside her; she was acutely aware of not fitting in in Chorley. “I was a black girl living in a market town, alien to everything. There were so many things I wanted to be other than what I was. I wanted to be white, have different hair, have parents who were home, know my father, not be religious. When I watched TV, everything from Disney to Coronation Street, there was never a representation of me.” She would write to disappear into different realities.
Soon enough, however, she didn’t need prose to whisk her away. There was a man – an older music teacher. He was married. He left his wife for her. “It was a torrid, crazy time,” she recalls, awkwardly avoiding the conversation.
She left Chorley and moved to Manchester en route to London, as the pull of big multicultural cities became exhilarating to her. “I was going out dancing to reggae and African music, buying jollof rice made by someone other than my grandma.” The honeymoon period was short, though. She lost her mother in 2007. (She doesn’t say how she died but implies that her lack of quality of life contributed.) Working as a jobbing actor and model, struggling to makes ends meet, she fell into depression. Writing was unimportant when there were bills to pay. “The grind got to me. I was lonely and had no real support in the world. None. I felt awful every day. I didn’t want to get out of bed.”
The discrimination she experienced in the fashion industry made matters worse. Repeatedly she’d fail to get jobs she was more than qualified for. “This is not a face that sells in England,” she says. “They say that black models sell fewer clothes than white models. That’s stupid. Fashion just doesn’t want to be diverse.” To survive, she had to find other avenues. “I was a very enterprising young woman,” she says coyly. “Learning what to use to get by.”
I ask if she’s alluding to sex work. She laughs. “It’s the most common thing in the modelling industry, especially at high levels. I’m not talking about standing on street corners. You have a boyfriend for two months who’s a millionaire. In that situation you’re safe, eating caviar, drinking champagne. There are other situations that are considerably less safe and less consensual. It’s a reality for so many women in the entertainment industry and we’re told not to talk about it.”
In desperate need of salvation and in search of more secure modelling jobs, she moved to Cape Town where there was, she says, a guaranteed market for black models. She was 24 years old with £200 in her pocket. The experience made her rich in a way she’d never have anticipated. While there, she came across a spoken-word evening. The task was to write a poem about family discord. “I thought: easy!” she smiles. Her performance brought rapturous applause. She went again and again. Every week the audience grew.
“In acting and modelling I was so busy expressing what somebody else wanted that I’d completely shut down my own voice,” she says. “I didn’t have any mirrors. When I was 20, I was in knots. I couldn’t speak my reality to anybody. There’s no cage now. Lots of people are afraid to tell the truth. But I don’t care. It’s fucking boring otherwise.”
Today, Daley-Ward lives between LA and London. Her audience has grown far beyond Cape Town. One poem, Mental Health, has made fans of people who have never given a thought to poetry. During a reading in south London, a man came up to her in tears. “He asked me to send it to him. I thought nobody was listening,” she says. She’s also become a poster child for the undermined, particularly the LGBTQ community. Despite writing about her relationships with women, she refuses to make her sexuality a big deal, insisting that her poems relate to people of all sexual preferences.
“I’m writing about common experience,” she says. “The LGBT community are my friends. The queer space is varied and intricate. Every story I have is a story a friend has. When I talk about a woman that you can’t get out of your head even though you know she’s going to fuck you over… Hello?! That represents 10 people I know.”
In an age of technology, the fact that Daley-Ward has built a platform for literature out of social media is perhaps her biggest act of rebellion. Next, she’ll release a memoir. “There’s nothing left unsaid,” she laughs. Titled The Terrible, it’s “The truest thing I’ll maybe ever write.” Where it will take her remains to be seen. “I move through the world at an alarming rate. Next time we speak I might be in New York,” she says. “I’m in the midst of a change. I keep dreaming about it. Something’s about to happen.”
Bone by Yrsa Daley-Ward is published by Penguin on 26 September, at £9.99. To order a copy for £8.49, go to bookshop.theguardian.com
Fashion credits: (from top) Daley-ward wears dress by Alexander McQueen; coat by Givenchy; and jumper by Prada. Fashion editor Jo Jones; hair by Jerome Cultrera at L’Atelier NYC using Oribe Hair Care; make-up by Linda Gradin at L’Atelier NYC using MAC Cosmetics; fashion assistant Bemi Shaw
!!!@@@$$$

Loneliness is a recurrent ache in pop music; the diagnosis is normally heartbreak, unrequited love or loss. Moses Sumney has a slightly different take on what is drily termed “aromanticism” – an imperviousness to coupling up. Born of exacting self-scrutiny, it is bolstered by 70s soul, Greek myth and what sounds like a personal phalanx of angels that routinely dive bombs this gorgeously crafted album.
We’re not all destined to be completed by some special someone, the LA musician seems to conclude. That the swooning, layered backing vocals on many of these 11 tracks turn out to be just Sumney, multi-tracked, underscore his exquisite isolation.
Having reached a wider audience thanks to his guest spot on Solange’s A Seat at the Table album, Sumney is now taking his own stool at music’s countertop with a genre-resistant debut that juxtaposes guitars with harp sounds and electronic production. It recalls the delicacy of Anohni’s first album while sounding like little else – our own Sampha covering Tim Buckley’s Song to the Siren, maybe.
Of course, the boy has some company. Jazz outlier Thundercat guests on bass, as does Paris Strother from King; Matt Otto, previously half of Majical Cloudz, helps out with production.
And Sumney has had sleepovers. “All my old lovers have found others,” he notes on the spare, guitar-driven folk-soul of Indulge Me. Another fantasia finds a finger-clicking Sumney declaring: “I’m not trying to go to bed with ya/I just wanna make out in my car.” Discreet panting, a jazz flute and fruity strings mark the tryst (Make Out in My Car).
Sometimes, Sumney considers, love founders on circumstance, or worse. A key track, the expansive Quarrel, is all low-key shimmies and pops, harps and muted horns – and prejudice. “Don’t call it a lovers’ quarrel,” demands Sumney. “We cannot be lovers/Cos I am the other.” As though to underline the point, the final two minutes unfurl into spacey soul and restless jazz.
Sometimes, in our culture, being resistant to happily-ever-after seems akin to blasphemy. The pivotal track, Doomed, finds Sumney wondering: “If lovelessness is godlessness/Will you cast me to the wayside?” This time, the cavalry of angels doesn’t arrive; it’s just Sumney’s quaver and a little thrumming synth in the background. A riveting moment later, he is excommunicating himself. “Well, I feel the peeling/Of half-painted ceilings/Reveal the covering of a blank sky.”
Sumney has described the album as “a sonic dreamscape” and if Aromanticism has a tiny drawback, it is an over-reliance on beauty. This former choirboy has a truly celestial falsetto, but he underuses his lower register. Plastic – included here, but originally released in 2014 – finds Sumney sliding assuredly down the octaves on a single vocal line. This album packs so much succour; only once – on Lonely World – are the virtuoso musicians he has assembled allowed to express any tension. The unexpected percussion hammers down like rain.
!!!@@@$$$

‘Does anyone read Bruce Chatwin these days?” asked Blake Morrison, reviewing his letters seven years ago. Well, someone must: nearly 30 years after his death, all six of Chatwin’s books are still in print. But it is true that when the dominant writers of the 1970s and 1980s are discussed, Chatwin’s name is rarely among them. The penalty of once being fashionable is that you may come to be thought of as merely fashionable. Almost violently successful at first, his books are now less likely to be mentioned than the Moleskine notebooks in which he sketched and jotted.
Vintage’s 40th anniversary edition of In Patagonia is an invitation to look again at one of the most vivid but elusive writers of the late 20th century. Chatwin’s first book, it helped to change the idea of what travel writing could be. It appeared at a rich literary moment, when both reportage and the novel were beginning to fly high in new directions. I remember the time well – I edited In Patagonia and in doing so became friends with the author. Angela Carter and Ryszard Kapuściński, Martin Amis, Ian McEwan and Salman Rushdie were already publishing; Julian Barnes was preparing to take off. In Patagonia was in a category of its own. It was clearly not a novel, but it flirted with fiction. A collage of histories, sketches, myths and memories, with short scenes glinting towards each other, without judgment, conclusion or, often, links. Chatwin said he was trying to make a cubist portrait. It is paradoxical, in content and in style. The syntax is snappy but the vocabulary is orchidaceous. It holds back from intimate revelation – “I don’t believe in becoming clean,” Chatwin announced – but is fuelled by autobiography, lit up by personal obsessions.
In Patagonia begins with the infant Chatwin in Birmingham looking at a piece of “brontosaurus skin” and ends with the grown-up adventurer embarking on a ship at Punta Arenas. It examines the lives of the giant sloth and His Royal Highness Prince Philippe of Araucanía and Patagonia – a short chap in a brown tweed suit. It investigates new clues about Butch Cassidy, “who rode into a new life of wide horizons and the scent of horse leather”, and gives a lyrical account of the Welsh in Patagonia: hollyhocks, whitewashed rooms, ripe plums, pottery dogs and a harmonium. One of its final pictures is of “a boy from the Falklands with a sealskin hat and strange sharp teeth”. He declares: “’Bout time the Argentines took us over. We’re so bloody inbred.” That was five years before the Falklands war. Chatwin was often accused of being a fantasist. He was certainly not through-and-through rational, but he was often shrewd, often prescient.
Chatwin was a traveller, an art expert, a connoisseur of the extraordinary. He had not set out to be an author. At school – Marlborough – he had been considered “very much alive… he has a smooth and elegant style but is still too fond of the byways of historical accident”. At Sotheby’s, where he went to work at 18, he was a star: he had a quick eye for a fake, a sure eye for what was good, and rose to dizzy prominence in the impressionist and modern art (excluding British) and antiquities departments. He was also set to charm clients into buying and selling. At Somerset Maugham’s house on the French Riviera, Maugham’s secretary pleaded: “Bruce, do let Willy play with your hair.” He bolted from the auction house to Edinburgh University, to study archaeology. He bolted from Edinburgh after two years without taking his degree. In his 30s, he was taken on at the Sunday Times Magazine and, encouraged by Francis Wyndham, wrote sharp-edged, vivid, ingenious pieces: about the designer Eileen Gray, about George Costakis, an art collector in the Soviet Union, about Madeleine Vionnet, inventor of the bias cut. He bolted from the Sunday Times to Patagonia.
By the time I came across Chatwin, he was 36 and had done all these things. He had also accrued a reputation that, had I known about it, would have made me quail. He was celebrated for his looks: wide-browed, blond, strong blue eyes; his friend Howard Hodgkin thought he “looked like the captain of the first XI” – though he painted him, Chatwin noted, as “an acid green smear”. He was known for being particular about his outfits: his emerald jacket, his khaki safari shirt and shorts, his soft, toffee-coloured boots, and for the haversack in dark brown calfskin custom made by a saddler in Cirencester with each pocket carefully devised to house a particular item. He was famous for his sudden disappearances, his unexpected arrivals and for the whirling discourses that magnetised his audiences but which no one could quite summarise. His riff on red asked if the colour of revolution was inspired by blood or by fire, and took in the bonnet rouge of the French Revolution, Garibaldi, Uruguayan butchers, bullfighters and Buddhism. All too much, you might think, too exquisite. Yet he could capture convinced sceptics with his talk. Martin Amis had developed a rugged resistance to Chatwin before meeting him. When he saw “a very dinky little sleeping-bag with a club-class sticker” that the traveller had left behind him, he decided: “That just about sums him up.” But when he met him he melted. Six years after Chatwin’s death he keenly recalled an evening with him, talking about Romantic poetry. “He did,” Amis said, “remind you how intense the pleasures of conversation can be.”
I first met Chatwin in the drought summer of 1976. He swooped into the dingy room (next to the ladies’ lav) I occupied at the publisher Jonathan Cape, already talking and moving so fast he looked as if he were hiking through the room. He was carrying that calfskin haversack. In it was a paperback of L’or by Blaise Cendrars, a World Classics edition of Sydney Smith’s letters – and the bulky manuscript of what was then called “At the End: A Journey to Patagonia”.
I had written the reader’s report on the book. It had dazzled and worried me. It was exceptional – but it was enormous and it didn’t flow. I became his editor, with the task of making the book speed along. Over the next few weeks, we went through every line of the manuscript, reading it aloud in the Regent’s Park flat of the art dealer John Kasmin. Every night, the author went home merrily to hack away his stuff: he loved chucking out adjectives and anything that looked like a moody reaction shot. Every morning, he arrived having cut – but often having also added another episode; stories kept spilling out of him.
Nevertheless, judging by the sums I scrawled in the margins, I reckon we eventually cut between a quarter and a third of the typescript. The result was a swifter and consistently sleek volume: short phrases, short chapters, short book. Not much that went was wasted. Some of the cut material bobbed up in later work, in The Songlines, his baggiest and probably most famous book, and in On the Black Hill. That novel he wrote, he said, to escape the label of travel writer: “I decided to write something about people who never went out.” John Updike saw in this story of identical twin brothers the picture of a homosexual marriage. Chatwin, who had married at 25, had had male lovers.
For me, his great gift – on the page and in person – was visual generosity. He made you see different things and look at things differently. It was not works of art in galleries that interested him so much as objects, particularly those from which a story could be extracted. On the wall of his attic room in Albany, the apartment block in Piccadilly, was the king of Hawaii’s bedsheet: apricot-coloured, patterned with a shoal of jumping fish, looking like a Matisse. Chatwin had turned up at Christie’s on his bike to buy it in the 1960s. In the small Eaton Place flat designed by John Pawson – pleated like origami to hide his books – he hung pictures he had made by cutting coloured drawings from the catalogue of a broom manufacturer: rows of pinky-red-and-white toothbrushes, elegant and comic. In all his houses, he kept a prayer inscribed in Latin by the artist-poet David Jones: “May the blessed Archangel Michael defend us in battle lest we perish in the terrible judgment.” When he fell ill he took it with him in and out of hospitals.
In 1982, leafing through Time magazine, he came across an article about a “gay plague”. He later told his wife, Elizabeth, that he had immediately thought this applied to him. In his final years, sometimes feverish, sometimes high on the drugs he was prescribed, he became an exaggerated version of his already high-velocity self. He was full of plans and wheezes. He wanted to write a mighty novel featuring “four decadent countries – the USA, the USSR, France and Britain”. He had a scheme for an opera about Florence Gould, the grande dame from San Francisco who, during the second world war, presided over a multilingual salon in Paris, where guests included Jean Cocteau and German propaganda officers. It was to be an English opera in which hardly a word of English would be spoken. He wanted to give all his friends presents and went on wild shopping sprees. What he spent bore little relation to what money he had. “God is filling up my bank balance,” he told the jazz singer George Melly. Meanwhile, Elizabeth cancelled cheques and returned objects to art dealers.
In the midst of this tumult, he produced the intricate short novel Utz, which was shortlisted for the 1988 Booker prize. It is the tale of a secret life which I think contains a quiet tribute to his wife. It is also a wonderful evocation of austerity and calm. He asked me to edit it and I went down to his house in Oxfordshire with some small suggestions. We sat for cold bright mornings, making some tucks and trims, with Bruce beamingly anticipating some of my quibbles: “Beat you!” Halfway through spaghetti and bacon in the kitchen, he suddenly went completely blue. Huddled up in a blanket, looking tiny, he wailed: “I’m a child of the tropics!” The following weekend he was worse: “My stomach is like a calabash!” he declared, drumming on it rather proudly. A couple of months later, he was thin and disconsolate and in bed.
He died on 18 January 1989; he was 48. On 14 February, Elizabeth arranged an Orthodox service of commemoration in the Greek cathedral of Saint Sophia in Moscow Road, London. It turned out to be an occasion of drama. Two hours earlier, the fatwa on Salman Rushdie had been announced. Rushdie was at the cathedral, greeted by a horde of journalists as he came out. “Keep your head down, Salman, or next week we’ll be back here for you,” advised Paul Theroux.
It was also a mysterious event, unlike any other memorial service I have ever attended. Many thought it beautiful. Others thought its theatricality camp. Martin Amis saw this, homing in on “a religion that no one he knew could understand” as “Bruce’s last joke on his friends and loved ones”. The actor Peter Eyre, coming from a rehearsal of King Lear in a beard and clothes that would allow him to roll around – head to toe in black – was mistaken for a priest and approached by a member of the congregation about the possibility of conversion. The real black-robed priests talked of the end of pain, but there was no encomium, no evocation of the man who had died. The only word English speakers could be sure of was the repeatedly intoned “Bruce”. The author was absent from his service – as his admired Gustave Flaubert said that the artist should be absent from his work. And yet the occasion seemed full of his qualities. It was paradoxical, bringing together spareness and metropolitan bustle. Full of stories. Capriciously elusive.
• The 40th anniversary edition of In Patagonia by Bruce Chatwin is published by Vintage on 5 October (£10.99). To order a copy for £9.34 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99. Susannah Clapp’s memoir With Chatwin: Portrait of a Writer (1997) is also published by Vintage
!!!@@@$$$

Sometimes Juliet Stevenson looks like a parachute, sometimes like a handkerchief snatched away by the wind. Floating high above the stage in Arthur Kopit’s Wings, she is at first wrapped in a billowy white cloudlike material; later, she flies high in a grey jumpsuit, as limber as Peter Pan. She twists, turns upside down, body straight as a dart. Occasionally she is helped to spin faster by chaps in flying helmets. She never stops talking.
The force of Natalie Abrahami’s production is visual. It is powered by the extraordinary sight of Stevenson – completely in control of breath and limb and yet playing a woman who is out of touch with her brain. Once an aviatrix and wing walker, she has suffered a stroke. Once she soared above the Earth; now she seems to float above herself, unable to connect her words to her intentions. When she does land, she trails a foot behind her as if her attendance on the ground were only provisional.
Kopit wrote Wings in 1976 as a play for radio. His main character begins with high-velocity jumbled speech: there are echoes of Beckett, and, so, echoes of the last time Stevenson was directed by Abrahami, buried up to her neck in sand as Winnie in Happy Days. She moves, as the character heals, to smoother phrases and recognisable sense. Some of that movement is overwhelmed by the production’s bravura spectacle. There is also something missing that even Stevenson – in turn stunned, bewildered, gradually returning – cannot quite supply. A sense of the person before the stroke: not just what she did but what she was like. Without that, this is an arresting picture of a condition rather than a full portrait of a character.
• At the Young Vic until 4 November
!!!@@@$$$

This handsome, semi-dramatised documentary explores the lives and tempestuous love of Argentina’s most celebrated tango dancers, María Nieves Rego and Juan Carlos Copes. She’s now 79 and he’s 86 and they’re still dancing. They met while in their teens, reinvented the tango and made each other thoroughly miserable for at least five decades.
With its theatrical approach, fascinating archive material and numerous dance sequences, this is a treat for tango fans. Audiences indifferent to the Argentine national dance, however, might find all the stomping and flouncing a little hard to take after a while.
!!!@@@$$$

As the days shorten, outfits lengthen and autumn greets us with chilly reserve, Hollywood is still poring over the results of its summer autopsy – a grim one, with the season ending in its lowest US box office total in a decade. As fingers of blame are pointed in any number of directions, from Netflix to the political administration, the slump is more easily explained in a few individual cases; even the least discerning viewers couldn’t find much to love in films as obnoxiously misconceived as King Arthur: Legend of the Sword (Warner, 15) and Baywatch (Paramount, 15).
The former sees Guy Ritchie trying out the same trick he pulled with Sherlock Holmes – meshing the lairy contemporary laddishness of his geezer crime flicks to an older-school English storytelling institution. The slick of glib confidence that got Holmes by, however, has all washed off in this incoherent scramble of booming battle choreography, comic-book history and scratchy “street” swagger – let us cast a permanent veil over David Beckham’s excruciating cameo – with poor Charlie Hunnam looking beautifully bemused at the centre of it all. Hard as it is to locate a principal problem here, it might be that Ritchie’s winking urban anachronisms in this tricked-out Arthurian universe are themselves out of date; Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels has never felt so long ago.
It’s a toss-up as to whether this approach is more exhausting than the full-on, just-bants japery of Baywatch, a notional homage to the 1990s lifeguard soap that never matches its source for basic laughs or high-kitsch camp value. Director Seth Gordon aims for the same gonzo irreverence as Lord and Miller’s 21 Jump Street films, but misses the comic value in just how distantly they drifted from their TV namesake. Merely rehashing the original’s iconography in heavy air quotes doesn’t go very far and nothing could be more gleefully absurd than David Hasselhoff to begin with – so what’s the point, exactly?
After that wearying double bill, the considerably quieter maritime pleasures of The Red Turtle (Studiocanal, PG) settle softly on the soul like aqueous cream. A serene marriage between the lyrical sensibilities of Studio Ghibli and Dutch animator Michaël Dudok de Wit, this wordless but feeling-soaked fable about the strange, shape-shifting bond between a marooned mariner and the giant sea turtle that keeps foiling his escape attempts begins as pictorial adventure before morphing into something sublimely romantic. Exquisitely hand-rendered in tones of coral and azure, it’s a one-off that offers rapture for adults and the smallest of patient children alike.
For grown-ups who prefer their hearts squeezed in more conventional, real-world ways, French veteran Benoît Jacquot’s determinedly old-fashioned love triangle 3 Hearts (101 Films, 15), making its long-delayed UK DVD premiere, does the job plushly enough. When two dissimilar sisters (Charlotte Gainsbourg and Chiara Mastroianni) fall for the same man (Benoît Poelvoorde), the situation crumples in most of the expected ways; it’s pleasingly mellow melodrama, given a spritzer spike by Catherine Deneuve as the sisters’ mother.
With Robert Redford and Jane Fonda renewing their screen partnership for Netflix – more on that next week – the rerelease of their first shared credit, Arthur Penn’s odd-angled 1966 prison-break drama The Chase (Powerhouse, 15) is cleverly timed. The film, principally a vehicle for Marlon Brando as a morally tortured sheriff tracking Redford’s honourable outlaw, remains something of a southern-fried curio: hot, bothered and overplotted, but fascinatingly preoccupied with its era’s economic politics, and feverish with star power. A rather more elegant parable of money and morality is Ermanno Olmi’s 1988 Venice Golden Lion winner The Legend of the Holy Drinker (Arrow, PG): a Joseph Roth adaptation starring Rutger Hauer as an alcoholic Parisian tramp endlessly frustrated in his quest to repay a stranger’s loan, it’s a grave, stirring gutter epic – and a welcome companion to Olmi’s recently revived beauty The Tree of the Wooden Clogs.
Finally, a low-key Netflix debut for a film that stomps on to screen with far splashier intentions. Iranian-American film-maker Ana Lily Amirpour’s The Bad Batch is a vividly dyed curate’s egg. Its grisly dystopian tale of social misfits cast out of America into a fenced-off desert purgatory dips freely into assorted genres – spaghetti western, cannibal-holocaust exploitation, Mad Max fantasia – while delivering a blunt state-of-the-nation address on immigration, classism and feminism.
Premiered before Trump’s election, it plays very much as a film for this moment, though it remains a cluttered, hollow-hearted muddle and a disappointment after Amirpour’s sinuous urban-vampire debut, A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night. Still, it has its ardent admirers – last year’s Venice jury among them – and deserved a chance for cinema audiences to pick their side.
!!!@@@$$$

Jean-Michel Basquiat (1960-88) is the archetype of the doomed young artist, dead at 27 of a heroin overdose. A film in Boom for Real shows him walking through Manhattan, a hot young star with a sax and a beautiful face, his fame as the secretive graffiti artist Samo (Same Old Shit) already behind him. He is not yet 20.
This retrospective – his first here, surprisingly – is heavily tipped towards the life and times, and so stuffed with blown-up photos and footage of Basquiat dancing, musing, clubbing and hanging out with Warhol that it’s hard to see the art at first. But eventually it comes, fully formed, almost, from the start – the caricatural drawings, the names and epigrammatic phrases in block capitals, the darting cars, scudding planes, lists of heroes and historic faces, all sampled against glowing high-chrome backdrops with a DJ’s nonchalant energy.
They don’t aspire to the condition of graffiti, it turns out, so much as the idioms of American art in the 1980s: Rauschenberg’s collages and Cy Twombly’s elegant whispers, Warhol’s silk screens and Keith Haring’s hip-hop hieroglyphics. From Egyptian art to Gray’s Anatomy, Basquiat had pictorial sources lying all around him in the studio and that’s how his images appear, in scattered thoughts and glances, the connections between them sometimes mordant, sometimes comic.
One of the many daft captions in this show speaks of his “finely executed portraits” of Charles Darwin and TH Huxley (he was interested in their theories of racial evolution). This is nonsense. Basquiat made pictograms rather than likenesses. When he first met Warhol, Basquiat ran home and made a double portrait in two hours: Warhol is all drawing, the strands of his fright wig extending into wrinkles, whereas Basquiat is a big sweep of ochre paint rising into wild black dreadlocks.
Painted fast, swiftly viewed: his works are ideal for the restless brain. They have terrific graphic register. Here’s the name of a black hero declaimed against a white background: the politics neatly encapsulated. Here’s his own self-portrait as a skull, beneath the word Famous! Celebrated, but prophetically dead. At the Barbican, nobody mentions the drugs that eventually killed him but they’re there in the later works, with their intensive cross-hatchings and buzzing repetitions, and in their atmosphere of nocturnal solitude.
Ultimately, the art feels indivisible from Basquiat’s famous charm and attractiveness, for there is a lot of both in this show, most particularly in the self-portraits, especially the antic black silhouettes with their cut-out eyes and flaring hair. But this is in no way a normal exhibition. It’s not just the preponderance of ephemera, from club tickets to postcards and party polaroids, but the growing foreboding in the gas masks, skulls and death’s heads. There is the pervasive feeling that everything here was made live and direct, in response to something going on in another time and place far away – that it has all been retrieved, only just, from oblivion.
• Basquiat: Boom for Real is at Barbican Art Gallery until 28 January
!!!@@@$$$

Matthew Walker has learned to dread the question “What do you do?” At parties, it signals the end of his evening; thereafter, his new acquaintance will inevitably cling to him like ivy. On an aeroplane, it usually means that while everyone else watches movies or reads a thriller, he will find himself running an hours-long salon for the benefit of passengers and crew alike. “I’ve begun to lie,” he says. “Seriously. I just tell people I’m a dolphin trainer. It’s better for everyone.”
Walker is a sleep scientist. To be specific, he is the director of the Center for Human Sleep Science at the University of California, Berkeley, a research institute whose goal – possibly unachievable – is to understand everything about sleep’s impact on us, from birth to death, in sickness and health. No wonder, then, that people long for his counsel. As the line between work and leisure grows ever more blurred, rare is the person who doesn’t worry about their sleep. But even as we contemplate the shadows beneath our eyes, most of us don’t know the half of it – and perhaps this is the real reason he has stopped telling strangers how he makes his living. When Walker talks about sleep he can’t, in all conscience, limit himself to whispering comforting nothings about camomile tea and warm baths. It’s his conviction that we are in the midst of a “catastrophic sleep-loss epidemic”, the consequences of which are far graver than any of us could imagine. This situation, he believes, is only likely to change if government gets involved.
Walker has spent the last four and a half years writing Why We Sleep, a complex but urgent book that examines the effects of this epidemic close up, the idea being that once people know of the powerful links between sleep loss and, among other things, Alzheimer’s disease, cancer, diabetes, obesity and poor mental health, they will try harder to get the recommended eight hours a night (sleep deprivation, amazing as this may sound to Donald Trump types, constitutes anything less than seven hours). But, in the end, the individual can achieve only so much. Walker wants major institutions and law-makers to take up his ideas, too. “No aspect of our biology is left unscathed by sleep deprivation,” he says. “It sinks down into every possible nook and cranny. And yet no one is doing anything about it. Things have to change: in the workplace and our communities, our homes and families. But when did you ever see an NHS poster urging sleep on people? When did a doctor prescribe, not sleeping pills, but sleep itself? It needs to be prioritised, even incentivised. Sleep loss costs the UK economy over £30bn a year in lost revenue, or 2% of GDP. I could double the NHS budget if only they would institute policies to mandate or powerfully encourage sleep.”
I get on a flight at 10am when people should be at peak alert, and half of the plane has immediately fallen asleep
Why, exactly, are we so sleep-deprived? What has happened over the course of the last 75 years? In 1942, less than 8% of the population was trying to survive on six hours or less sleep a night; in 2017, almost one in two people is. The reasons are seemingly obvious. “First, we electrified the night,” Walker says. “Light is a profound degrader of our sleep. Second, there is the issue of work: not only the porous borders between when you start and finish, but longer commuter times, too. No one wants to give up time with their family or entertainment, so they give up sleep instead. And anxiety plays a part. We’re a lonelier, more depressed society. Alcohol and caffeine are more widely available. All these are the enemies of sleep.”
But Walker believes, too, that in the developed world sleep is strongly associated with weakness, even shame. “We have stigmatised sleep with the label of laziness. We want to seem busy, and one way we express that is by proclaiming how little sleep we’re getting. It’s a badge of honour. When I give lectures, people will wait behind until there is no one around and then tell me quietly: ‘I seem to be one of those people who need eight or nine hours’ sleep.’ It’s embarrassing to say it in public. They would rather wait 45 minutes for the confessional. They’re convinced that they’re abnormal, and why wouldn’t they be? We chastise people for sleeping what are, after all, only sufficient amounts. We think of them as slothful. No one would look at an infant baby asleep, and say ‘What a lazy baby!’ We know sleeping is non-negotiable for a baby. But that notion is quickly abandoned [as we grow up]. Humans are the only species that deliberately deprive themselves of sleep for no apparent reason.” In case you’re wondering, the number of people who can survive on five hours of sleep or less without any impairment, expressed as a percent of the population and rounded to a whole number, is zero.
The world of sleep science is still relatively small. But it is growing exponentially, thanks both to demand (the multifarious and growing pressures caused by the epidemic) and to new technology (such as electrical and magnetic brain stimulators), which enables researchers to have what Walker describes as “VIP access” to the sleeping brain. Walker, who is 44 and was born in Liverpool, has been in the field for more than 20 years, having published his first research paper at the age of just 21. “I would love to tell you that I was fascinated by conscious states from childhood,” he says. “But in truth, it was accidental.” He started out studying for a medical degree in Nottingham. But having discovered that doctoring wasn’t for him – he was more enthralled by questions than by answers – he switched to neuroscience, and after graduation, began a PhD in neurophysiology supported by the Medical Research Council. It was while working on this that he stumbled into the realm of sleep.
“I was looking at the brainwave patterns of people with different forms of dementia, but I was failing miserably at finding any difference between them,” he recalls now. One night, however, he read a scientific paper that changed everything. It described which parts of the brain were being attacked by these different types of dementia: “Some were attacking parts of the brain that had to do with controlled sleep, while other types left those sleep centres unaffected. I realised my mistake. I had been measuring the brainwave activity of my patients while they were awake, when I should have been doing so while they were asleep.” Over the next six months, Walker taught himself how to set up a sleep laboratory and, sure enough, the recordings he made in it subsequently spoke loudly of a clear difference between patients. Sleep, it seemed, could be a new early diagnostic litmus test for different subtypes of dementia.
After this, sleep became his obsession. “Only then did I ask: what is this thing called sleep, and what does it do? I was always curious, annoyingly so, but when I started to read about sleep, I would look up and hours would have gone by. No one could answer the simple question: why do we sleep? That seemed to me to be the greatest scientific mystery. I was going to attack it, and I was going to do that in two years. But I was naive. I didn’t realise that some of the greatest scientific minds had been trying to do the same thing for their entire careers. That was two decades ago, and I’m still cracking away.” After gaining his doctorate, he moved to the US. Formerly a professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, he is now professor of neuroscience and psychology at the University of California.
Does his obsession extend to the bedroom? Does he take his own advice when it comes to sleep? “Yes. I give myself a non-negotiable eight-hour sleep opportunity every night, and I keep very regular hours: if there is one thing I tell people, it’s to go to bed and to wake up at the same time every day, no matter what. I take my sleep incredibly seriously because I have seen the evidence. Once you know that after just one night of only four or five hours’ sleep, your natural killer cells – the ones that attack the cancer cells that appear in your body every day – drop by 70%, or that a lack of sleep is linked to cancer of the bowel, prostate and breast, or even just that the World Health Organisation has classed any form of night-time shift work as a probable carcinogen, how could you do anything else?”
There is, however, a sting in the tale. Should his eyelids fail to close, Walker admits that he can be a touch “Woody Allen-neurotic”. When, for instance, he came to London over the summer, he found himself jet-lagged and wide awake in his hotel room at two o’clock in the morning. His problem then, as always in these situations, was that he knew too much. His brain began to race. “I thought: my orexin isn’t being turned off, the sensory gate of my thalamus is wedged open, my dorsolateral prefrontal cortex won’t shut down, and my melatonin surge won’t happen for another seven hours.” What did he do? In the end, it seems, even world experts in sleep act just like the rest of us when struck by the curse of insomnia. He turned on a light and read for a while.
Will Why We Sleep have the impact its author hopes? I’m not sure: the science bits, it must be said, require some concentration. But what I can tell you is that it had a powerful effect on me. After reading it, I was absolutely determined to go to bed earlier – a regime to which I am sticking determinedly. In a way, I was prepared for this. I first encountered Walker some months ago, when he spoke at an event at Somerset House in London, and he struck me then as both passionate and convincing (our later interview takes place via Skype from the basement of his “sleep centre”, a spot which, with its bedrooms off a long corridor, apparently resembles the ward of a private hospital). But in another way, it was unexpected. I am mostly immune to health advice. Inside my head, there is always a voice that says “just enjoy life while it lasts”.
The evidence Walker presents, however, is enough to send anyone early to bed. It’s no kind of choice at all. Without sleep, there is low energy and disease. With sleep, there is vitality and health. More than 20 large scale epidemiological studies all report the same clear relationship: the shorter your sleep, the shorter your life. To take just one example, adults aged 45 years or older who sleep less than six hours a night are 200% more likely to have a heart attack or stroke in their lifetime, as compared with those sleeping seven or eight hours a night (part of the reason for this has to do with blood pressure: even just one night of modest sleep reduction will speed the rate of a person’s heart, hour upon hour, and significantly increase their blood pressure).
A lack of sleep also appears to hijack the body’s effective control of blood sugar, the cells of the sleep-deprived appearing, in experiments, to become less responsive to insulin, and thus to cause a prediabetic state of hyperglycaemia. When your sleep becomes short, moreover, you are susceptible to weight gain. Among the reasons for this are the fact that inadequate sleep decreases levels of the satiety-signalling hormone, leptin, and increases levels of the hunger-signalling hormone, ghrelin. “I’m not going to say that the obesity crisis is caused by the sleep-loss epidemic alone,” says Walker. “It’s not. However, processed food and sedentary lifestyles do not adequately explain its rise. Something is missing. It’s now clear that sleep is that third ingredient.” Tiredness, of course, also affects motivation.
Sleep has a powerful effect on the immune system, which is why, when we have flu, our first instinct is to go to bed: our body is trying to sleep itself well. Reduce sleep even for a single night, and your resilience is drastically reduced. If you are tired, you are more likely to catch a cold. The well-rested also respond better to the flu vaccine. As Walker has already said, more gravely, studies show that short sleep can affect our cancer-fighting immune cells. A number of epidemiological studies have reported that night-time shift work and the disruption to circadian sleep and rhythms that it causes increase the odds of developing cancers including breast, prostate, endometrium and colon.
Getting too little sleep across the adult lifespan will significantly raise your risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease. The reasons for this are difficult to summarise, but in essence it has to do with the amyloid deposits (a toxin protein) that accumulate in the brains of those suffering from the disease, killing the surrounding cells. During deep sleep, such deposits are effectively cleaned from the brain. What occurs in an Alzheimer’s patient is a kind of vicious circle. Without sufficient sleep, these plaques build up, especially in the brain’s deep-sleep-generating regions, attacking and degrading them. The loss of deep sleep caused by this assault therefore lessens our ability to remove them from the brain at night. More amyloid, less deep sleep; less deep sleep, more amyloid, and so on. (In his book, Walker notes “unscientifically” that he has always found it curious that Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan, both of whom were vocal about how little sleep they needed, both went on to develop the disease; it is, moreover, a myth that older adults need less sleep.) Away from dementia, sleep aids our ability to make new memories, and restores our capacity for learning.
And then there is sleep’s effect on mental health. When your mother told you that everything would look better in the morning, she was wise. Walker’s book includes a long section on dreams (which, says Walker, contrary to Dr Freud, cannot be analysed). Here he details the various ways in which the dream state connects to creativity. He also suggests that dreaming is a soothing balm. If we sleep to remember (see above), then we also sleep to forget. Deep sleep – the part when we begin to dream – is a therapeutic state during which we cast off the emotional charge of our experiences, making them easier to bear. Sleep, or a lack of it, also affects our mood more generally. Brain scans carried out by Walker revealed a 60% amplification in the reactivity of the amygdala – a key spot for triggering anger and rage – in those who were sleep-deprived. In children, sleeplessness has been linked to aggression and bullying; in adolescents, to suicidal thoughts. Insufficient sleep is also associated with relapse in addiction disorders. A prevailing view in psychiatry is that mental disorders cause sleep disruption. But Walker believes it is, in fact, a two-way street. Regulated sleep can improve the health of, for instance, those with bipolar disorder.
I’ve mentioned deep sleep in this (too brief) summary several times. What is it, exactly? We sleep in 90-minute cycles, and it’s only towards the end of each one of these that we go into deep sleep. Each cycle comprises two kinds of sleep. First, there is NREM sleep (non-rapid eye movement sleep); this is then followed by REM (rapid eye movement) sleep. When Walker talks about these cycles, which still have their mysteries, his voice changes. He sounds bewitched, almost dazed.
“During NREM sleep, your brain goes into this incredible synchronised pattern of rhythmic chanting,” he says. “There’s a remarkable unity across the surface of the brain, like a deep, slow mantra. Researchers were once fooled that this state was similar to a coma. But nothing could be further from the truth. Vast amounts of memory processing is going on. To produce these brainwaves, hundreds of thousands of cells all sing together, and then go silent, and on and on. Meanwhile, your body settles into this lovely low state of energy, the best blood-pressure medicine you could ever hope for. REM sleep, on the other hand, is sometimes known as paradoxical sleep, because the brain patterns are identical to when you’re awake. It’s an incredibly active brain state. Your heart and nervous system go through spurts of activity: we’re still not exactly sure why.”
Does the 90-minute cycle mean that so-called power naps are worthless? “They can take the edge off basic sleepiness. But you need 90 minutes to get to deep sleep, and one cycle isn’t enough to do all the work. You need four or five cycles to get all the benefit.” Is it possible to have too much sleep? This is unclear. “There is no good evidence at the moment. But I do think 14 hours is too much. Too much water can kill you, and too much food, and I think ultimately the same will prove to be true for sleep.” How is it possible to tell if a person is sleep-deprived? Walker thinks we should trust our instincts. Those who would sleep on if their alarm clock was turned off are simply not getting enough. Ditto those who need caffeine in the afternoon to stay awake. “I see it all the time,” he says. “I get on a flight at 10am when people should be at peak alert, and I look around, and half of the plane has immediately fallen asleep.”
So what can the individual do? First, they should avoid pulling “all-nighters”, at their desks or on the dancefloor. After being awake for 19 hours, you’re as cognitively impaired as someone who is drunk. Second, they should start thinking about sleep as a kind of work, like going to the gym (with the key difference that it is both free and, if you’re me, enjoyable). “People use alarms to wake up,” Walker says. “So why don’t we have a bedtime alarm to tell us we’ve got half an hour, that we should start cycling down?” We should start thinking of midnight more in terms of its original meaning: as the middle of the night. Schools should consider later starts for students; such delays correlate with improved IQs. Companies should think about rewarding sleep. Productivity will rise, and motivation, creativity and even levels of honesty will be improved. Sleep can be measured using tracking devices, and some far-sighted companies in the US already give employees time off if they clock enough of it. Sleeping pills, by the way, are to be avoided. Among other things, they can have a deleterious effect on memory.
Those who are focused on so-called “clean” sleep are determined to outlaw mobiles and computers from the bedroom – and quite right, too, given the effect of LED-emitting devices on melatonin, the sleep-inducing hormone. Ultimately, though, Walker believes that technology will be sleep’s saviour. “There is going to be a revolution in the quantified self in industrial nations,” he says. “We will know everything about our bodies from one day to the next in high fidelity. That will be a seismic shift, and we will then start to develop methods by which we can amplify different components of human sleep, and do that from the bedside. Sleep will come to be seen as a preventive medicine.”
What questions does Walker still most want to answer? For a while, he is quiet. “It’s so difficult,” he says, with a sigh. “There are so many. I would still like to know where we go, psychologically and physiologically, when we dream. Dreaming is the second state of human consciousness, and we have only scratched the surface so far. But I would also like to find out when sleep emerged. I like to posit a ridiculous theory, which is: perhaps sleep did not evolve. Perhaps it was the thing from which wakefulness emerged.” He laughs. “If I could have some kind of medical Tardis and go back in time to look at that, well, I would sleep better at night.”
• Why We Sleep: The New Science of Sleep and Dreams by Matthew Walker is published by Allen Lane (£20). To order a copy for £17 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
■ Two-thirds of adults in developed nations fail to obtain the nightly eight hours of sleep recommended by the World Health Organisation.
■ An adult sleeping only 6.75 hours a night would be predicted to live only to their early 60s without medical intervention.
■ A 2013 study reported that men who slept too little had a sperm count 29% lower than those who regularly get a full and restful night’s sleep.
■ If you drive a car when you have had less than five hours’ sleep, you are 4.3 times more likely to be involved in a crash. If you drive having had four hours, you are 11.5 times more likely to be involved in an accident.
■ A hot bath aids sleep not because it makes you warm, but because your dilated blood vessels radiate inner heat, and your core body temperature drops. To successfully initiate sleep, your core temperature needs to drop about 1C.
■ The time taken to reach physical exhaustion by athletes who obtain anything less than eight hours of sleep, and especially less than six hours, drops by 10-30%.
■ There are now more than 100 diagnosed sleep disorders, of which insomnia is the most common.
■ Morning types, who prefer to awake at or around dawn, make up about 40% of the population. Evening types, who prefer to go to bed late and wake up late, account for about 30%. The remaining 30% lie somewhere in between.
!!!@@@$$$

I went into Oslo expecting to be informed, and fairly confident of being interested. I did not expect to find myself following the plot as eagerly as if it were a whodunnit to which I didn’t know the ending, or often to be laughing – or to find myself once on the brink of tears.
JT Rogers’s play, first seen last year at the Lincoln Center, is the story of a peace process; it is almost wall to wall men in suits. But the events it elucidates are riveting. Improbably, the secret talks that led to the 1993 Oslo accords, the first agreement ever struck between the Palestine Liberation Organisation and the state of Israel, were organised not through official channels but by a Norwegian academic and his diplomat wife. The negotiators were served waffles. The US was not told of the encounters. Yet later that year Yasser Arafat and Yitzhak Rabin were shaking hands on the lawn of the White House. There were sobs of joyful surprise from witnesses as agreement was reached. The sobs provoked by watching this now are bitter: by the end of the decade the accord was in tatters.
Rogers’s play is not verbatim theatre but a reimagining. With fierce individual confrontations and high-powered comic eruptions. Philip Arditti is a chameleon Israeli negotiator who swivels from seductor to boa constrictor with a shimmy of his snake hips. He does provocative take-offs, not only of Henry Kissinger but also (jacket backwards over the head) Arafat. From the PLO, Peter Polycarpou is explosive and expansive. Both of them have daughters called Maya.
Bartlett Sher’s incisive production makes debate look like action. Which is part of Rogers’s point: talking is a deed – and may replace an act of war. Against the odds, the evening is truly theatrical – because it is essentially a backstage story. It makes most “news” look like mere window dressing.
As the Norwegian prime mover, Toby Stephens is a magnetic mixture of inspired enterprise and self-promotion. He moves like a spin doctor. With perhaps a touch too much flounce. He begins to look as if he is on the brink of doing an imitation of himself: has he inherited this from his mother, Maggie Smith? Lydia Leonard draws all eyes by her extraordinary composure. Limpid but sceptical, she is one of the most interesting actors currently on stage. The production moves to the West End next month.
• At the Harold Pinter theatre, London SW1, from 2 October until 30 December
!!!@@@$$$

Terry Johnson has given himself a hard task with the clever title of his new play. Prism promises focus and transformation – a turning of white light into colour, a moment of concentration, and a skewed look at the world. It is too much to pull off. Even though he has alighted on a fascinating subject: the cinematographer Jack Cardiff, who worked alongside Powell and Pressburger and John Huston and with Monroe, Dietrich and Hepburn – and who is now suffering from dementia. Even though Johnson benefits from Tim Shortall’s marvellously revealing design, which conjures both reality and the encroaching fantasy. A garage converted into a studio perches in front of a video projection of the swampy river in The African Queen. Even though Claire Skinner proves a revelation as Katharine Hepburn – catching her loftiness, beauty and faux hesitancy with a tilt of the head and waterfall voice.
Johnson, who directs his own work, has created a witty, touching series of scenes. They beautifully flicker without absolutely peaking. The part of Cardiff was written for Robert Lindsay and he shrugs it on like a second skin. He is laddish, obsessional. He brings a touch of his performance as Archie Rice in The Entertainer to the role, but never overplays the fading swagger. He does not do dottiness: he is like an overexposed photograph – or a puddle shrinking in the sun. Familiar words are disappearing: “big chap, white beard, sits in heaven” – who could that be? Familiar faces go unrecognised. Memories begin to elbow out reactions to the present: “the past is all we have.” Which means that old screen idols become more real than today’s flesh and blood. In an inspired moment he suddenly calls his forgotten wife by her name, speaking to her warmly. She breaks down. He has been repeating lines from A Matter of Life and Death.
• At the Hampstead theatre until 14 October
!!!@@@$$$

A tale of sporting rivalry is given a brooding, introspective Scandinavian twist by Janus Metz, hitherto best known for his award-winning documentary Armadillo. Stoic, seemingly unflappable Björn Borg (Sverrir Gudnason) and volatile, temperamental brat John McEnroe (Shia LaBeouf) competed for the Wimbledon title in 1980. On paper, it was a clash of opposites. But in fact, this film argues that the two men had more in common than anyone suspected at the time. Ice-man Borg, the main focus of this film, was in fact a volcano; his obsession with detail, his superstitions, were all part of the meticulous control mechanism he constructed to prevent the eruptions of anger that so tarnished McEnroe’s early reputation.
Whether or not you know the outcome, this is a cracking watch. Metz captures the period effectively – the Mondrian-style colour blocks of the tennis court; the saturated, synthetic palette of the 1970s and early 1980s. But the performances carry the film. The two competitors are exceptionally well cast: LaBeouf is a little old for the role but conveys McEnroe’s isolation and vulnerability along with the adolescent petulance. But Gudnason is remarkable; not only is he an uncanny physical match, he also manages to combine a stewing inner turmoil with a demeanour that is as impassive as a blank scoreboard.
!!!@@@$$$

Flag is magnificent: a vision of glory in blood red, deep blue and the white of whipped waves. Each star on this spangled banner has a different character – pristine, ungainly, hiding beneath the brushstrokes – and the stripes are all rich impasto, heavily worked as a Rembrandt. The sheer grandeur of Jasper Johns’s 1967 masterpiece, which opens this show, irresistibly invokes old master art. Nobody in their right mind, you might think, could ever take it for a flag.
Yet this has been the steady claim pretty much since Johns painted his first US flag back in 1954. The picture was a sign for the very thing it signified. Was it a painted flag, patriotic and proud, or a painting of a flag that might not be either? What was its status? The artist (born in 1930) was credited with changing the way we look at pictures, and he continued this radical project with numbers, targets, maps and words, “things the mind already knows”, as he famously put it, and all abundantly represented here. You see the numbers, but don’t count them. You view the target without thinking of arrows. Johns turns symbols into abstractions.
Or does he? The surprise of this colossal survey, the first in Britain for 40 years, is just how moving these early works are. The flag hangs downwards and is suddenly funereal. Or it is lost, a lone star barely visible in a white blizzard. Or it seems to disappear into a marvellous drawing that nonetheless evokes, through cross-hatching, the flag’s thin fabric. Are these works political, like the maps that turn America upside down, or is their meaning more personal? This question hangs over the show.
There is the most forceful sense of Johns trying to get as much into – and out of – a picture as he can
The first gallery runs the gamut of Johns’s early career with great verve, gathering up the number pieces in monochrome and colour, bronze and aluminium, along with the cast-bronze Balantine beer cans, the iron lightbulbs and many of the word works, where the names of primary colours appear in Johns’s habitual stencil against opposing colours, setting off a cognitive dissonance only marginally more disruptive when the same words appear against the artist’s trademark grey.
Anyone can see that the emphasis is on the making, the handling of metal, lush oil and encaustic, where pigment is suspended in wax, giving each brush mark a strong materiality, the brilliant use of chalk and graphite. But a darkly beautiful drawing of a coat hanger, and another of two empty hooks, imply someone lost or departed. And Tennyson, a downpour of black pastel marks, resembles a gravestone, the poet’s name in capitals at the bottom: a pictorial homage, one feels, to Tennyson’s In Memoriam.
The predominant tone is pensive here and even romantic. Periscope (Hart Crane), from 1963, plays colour words against a storm of grey paint in true Johns style but there is also the eponymous periscope, a black hand print clinging to its edge above a single dire arrow pointing downwards. The American poet Hart Crane killed himself by throwing himself from a ship at 32, Johns’s age when he painted this work, in which his own hand reaches back to the poet.
A painting is an object as well as an image; very few artists have made quite such a point of this fact. At the Royal Academy, there is the most forceful sense of Johns trying to get as much into – and out of – a picture as he can, pressing his face, hands and torso into the painting, cutting the canvas in two, showing its back, hanging a loop of string from one side to the other that sheds a shadow line across the surface. The word “No” emits bodily from one canvas, dangling on a wire, leaving a No-shaped wound in the paint. Knives and forks dig and delve. The thick encaustic surface of another canvas bears savage tooth marks. It’s called Painting Bitten By a Man.
So far, so electrifying. But these paintings are all from the 1950s and 60s. Johns’s work thereafter takes what is surely one of the sharpest nosedives in art. This show’s curators have tried to pull off a three-card trick by shuffling the exhibits thematically, so that one almost loses sight of the chronology. But even the themes expose him. In the 1970s, for instance, Johns analysed the mark-making and palette of Edvard Munch’s Between the Clock and the Bed in a long series of almost classically boring pattern paintings that imitate Munch’s hatched brush marks without beginning to touch on the tragedy of that lonely self-portrait.
And even quite early on, Johns began to quote from his own works in the most self-mythologising way. One painting might include not just flags and stencils, but numbers and Balantine cans; another will incorporate family photographs, fragments of art history and veiled allusions to body parts, so that the viewer is aware of (but excluded from) some offstage private history. This is his modus operandi even today. What was melancholy starts to feel mawkish through constant repetition; what was original and tender starts to look slightly kitsch. The elements pile up, disconnected, turning poetry into prose.
• Jasper Johns: Something Resembling Truth is at the Royal Academy, London, until 10 December
!!!@@@$$$

After 2014’s slightly aimless Luminous, the Horrors’ fifth album finds them recapturing the focus of their earlier triumphs. The expansive melange of psychedelia and krautrock, embellished with synths and electronic flourishes, which they established on Primary Colours, is still the lingua franca, but there’s a greater consistency to the songwriting this time around. Indeed, from an icily detached Faris Badwan channelling his inner Gary Numan on slowly grinding opener Hologram through to the euphoric Moroder-influenced disco wig-out Something to Remember Me By that closes proceedings 54 minutes later, there isn’t a weak link. It makes for their most cohesive album yet.
!!!@@@$$$

“He’s a guggling midden-daup”; “As glumpy as a corpse”: the dialogue is rich in dialect, strong of accent. To understand every word – it’s impossible! But not a jot of meaning is lost. A variegated ensemble of theatre-savvy actors delivers characterisations as broad and as vivid as the language. Action cracks along on a staging that is sharply suggestive and infinitely adaptable. Blake Morrison’s new adaptation of Lesage’s 18th-century satirical French comedy Turcaret (original subtitle, The Financial System) is classic Northern Broadsides.
Twenty-five years ago, Barrie Rutter founded this company to give regional theatregoers a chance to hear the same accents on stage as were spoken in the auditorium (or in the boatshed, the cattle market, mill – wherever best suited the production or audience). Comedies and tragedies, translations, adaptations, new commissions and classics (ancient and modern) – 70-odd productions followed.
Then, last July, Rutter resigned as artistic director. The Arts Council had decided not to increase the company’s funding (for reasons unclear to me).
So, For Love or Money is Rutter’s last touring production as director/performer with the company he created. The action, relocated to a small Yorkshire town in the 1920s, spins with a crazy, clockwork precision around a triangle summarised by wily servant, Jack (canny Jordan Metcalfe): “The banker gives to t’widow./ The widow gives to t’lover./ The lover gives to no one./ He keeps it all himsen.” Naturally, Jack is determined to insert his own “sen” – and Lisa, his intended – into this venal bill of exchange.
With such a whirligig of vice, it can be hard to invest in characters’ fates, but performances that expose the raw desires behind behaviours pay dividends in pleasure. Rutter’s puffed-up banker, Sarah-Jane Potts’s faux-naif widow and Sarah Parks’s cracked “belle”, in particular, discharge sterling performances in this capital, nine-strong ensemble.
• For Love or Money is at West Yorkshire Playhouse, Leeds, from 26 to 30 September. Box office: 0113 213 7700. Then touring until 2 December.
!!!@@@$$$

The second album in 12 months by MC Taylor’s Hiss Golden Messenger is shot through with both darkness and light. From the heady opener Jenny of the Roses (“I’ve never been afraid of the darkness”) to the closing When the Wall Comes Down, there are several allusions to the dark, while Taylor’s mystical brand of country-soul has a rapturous quality rarely found in rock. It’s there in Jaw, one of the gentler tracks, all fidgety rhythms and Taylor’s husky voice, and in the aching Gulfport You’ve Been on My Mind. But every song possesses passion and gravitas, making Hallelujah Anyhow a spiritual descendant of Van Morrison’s Veedon Fleece.
!!!@@@$$$

Rudy Smith and his instrument, the steel pan, were born at the same place and time, Trinidad in the 1940s, and if there are any other jazz virtuosi of the instrument, I have yet to encounter them. He is a delightfully fluent and straightforward jazz soloist, which can’t be easy on an instrument that provides no means of sustaining notes. In his quartet, the plangent tone of the alto pan blends with the piano of Ole Matthiessen to create an unusual and delicate unison. Their long and close collaboration, with Matthiessen composing much of the material, has resulted in a serious and attractive jazz ensemble.
!!!@@@$$$

Six years after Jesus took his cross through the streets of Port Talbot, National Theatre Wales has returned, with a blast, to the town. Back in 2011, Michael Sheen carried the weight. Now come other great men, dressed in hard hats and hi-vis, to give us another epic of us versus them.
We’re Still Here explores the lives of the steelworkers at the huge Tata-owned plant that dominates Port Talbot’s skyline and its history. It specifically zones in on the plant’s recent past: the threat of closure in 2015, when 750 people lost their jobs. Steel hasn’t been a reliable career for many years, as I know: my stepfather retired from Port Talbot in 2011 after three career redundancies, while my oldest friend has worked on-site for nine years, and is now wondering what Tata’s merger with ThyssenKrupp will mean (she accompanies me tonight).
This play also feels timely: phrases such as “nobody listens, nothing changes” feel freshly urgent in post-Grenfell Britain. These are clamouring calls from the working class, voices from endgames refusing to concede.
But, worryingly, my friend hadn’t heard of the play before today, nor had many colleagues. Surely theatre can only affect communities if it properly connects with them? The venue is also experimental: a huge disused warehouse 10 minutes’ walk from the train station, where the audience has to promenade, with little seating. How many Port Talbot workers will come after work to something high-concept and low-comfort? (“Thirty-five years of hard labour,” the play tells us, “does things to the body.”) But from the lulling accents in the crowd, some did come, and hopefully others will too, given the strength of this powerful production.
The cavernous setting was wonderfully effective, set pieces acted out amid rubble and dead flowers, forcing us into these characters’ intimate worlds. The dialogue also worked marvels, full of restorative local dialect and bucketloads of hwyl (a particularly Welsh, gutsy, gung-ho). Based on interviews with locals, the banter, camaraderie, and despair of the main players – four steelworkers and a union rep – had me in stitches and in tears.
It all felt very real. So did a section when a crowd were reading out the names of the redundant in the form of a wild, abstract round, before some members peeled off to tell tiny groups of us their real stories – and these were real people. That gear-change had power.
Another real person making an impact was Sam Coombes, a 29-year-old steelworker whose last role was in his local rugby club panto. In the midst of the professional actors, his was an affecting performance, sadness and anger teeming through him. Talented local teenagers also joined the set, telling us about similar situations in Scotland, America and China, though the older men couldn’t see them. Instead, they stood stunned, hearing distant footsteps, and ghostly calls. They reminded us that steel used to give this community a legacy, rather than a constant reminder that the future in Port Talbot remains eerily unknown.
We’re Still Here gives a voice to that terror, reminding us of a huge story that’s still worth retelling.
• We’re Still Here, Byass Works, Port Talbot, until 30 September. Box office: 029 2037 1689
!!!@@@$$$

This is a code-red warning. I repeat, code red. You may be in the mood for a piece of trashy fun this weekend. You might have embraced the slick anarchy of the first Kingsman movie. But on no account let that persuade you to part with your money for a ticket to this sour-spirited and glib sequel. Taron Egerton returns as Eggsy, newest recruit of the elite secret agency Kingsman. He does a decent job of the two key requirements of the role: wearing suits and hitting people. But an early plot twist requires him to emote, at which point the whole house of cards tumbles down.
I didn’t think it was possible for someone to both grieve and smirk at the same time, but apparently it is. In fact, the whole film is a knowing sneer of a movie that shrugs off its plot holes along with a particularly unsavoury attitude to violence and a tendency to use female characters as the decorative punchline to jokes. Most annoying is that the film ignores the basic rules of physics, with a profoundly stupid cable-car action sequence that gave me the absolute rage.
!!!@@@$$$

A member of Yorkshire’s Waterson/Carthy folk dynasty, Marry sings in a style reminiscent of her late mother, Lal, and her aunt Norma; strong but plaintive, with a tendency to wistfulness that comes through on this set of originals around the theme of loss. David A Jaycock’s intricate acoustic guitar provides a sweet foil, creating a dreamy atmosphere on New Love Song and a title track about a maiden’s death. Producer Adrian Utley (of Portishead) is content to keep things simple; opener The Vain Jackdaw, based on an Aesop fable, recorded unaccompanied on a rooftop, is delightful, but elsewhere the mood remains relentlessly forlorn.
!!!@@@$$$

Niall Ferguson is not the kind of historian who suffers from understatement. He writes big, muscular books with high-concept ideas that target current concerns through the prism of the past. They are pull-yourself-together warnings to the present by way of arresting historical precedent.
In The Great Degeneration (2013) he describes the collapse of the institutions on which the west made its success. His 2011 book Civilisation was subtitled, with a market eye on contemporary buzzwords, The Six Killer Apps of Western Power. His latest book, The Square and Tower: Networks, Hierarchies and the Struggle for Global Power, claims to be “a whole new way of looking at the world”.
That seems like publisher’s hyperbole. The study of networks is not only all the rage in our “hooked up” era but, as Ferguson acknowledges, several historians and plenty of sociologists have been this way before.
The thrust of Ferguson’s argument is that the world is shaped by two distinct organisational forces: hierarchies and networks. This often seems a distinction without a great – or great enough – difference. Most networks are hierarchical, after all, and there are few hierarchies that are not in some sense part of a wider network.
But the division made, it gives a structure that allows Ferguson to do what he does best, which is to jump around history taking fascinating empirical facts from one place, compelling anecdotes from another, and pulling it all together into a powerful fast-paced narrative.
The problem is that there are simply too many strands and too much disparate information for a coherent thesis to emerge. Indeed, such is Ferguson’s restless desire to uncover connectedness that he can sound like a conspiracy theorist, though he is at pains to distance himself from that perspective. As he notes in the preface, conspiracy theorists see networks as hidden elites in cahoots with the established power structure, while far more often, he argues, networks disrupt the status quo.
But in revisiting such conspiracist tales – the Illuminati and the Rothschilds, for example – he confuses as much as demystifies. The Illuminati, a small 18th-century German order that sought to disseminate Enlightenment ideals, came to be seen – falsely – as the orchestrators of the French Revolution, and, by the modern crank tendency, as the puppet-masters behind everything.
As Ferguson notes, the Illuminati survived by infiltrating the Freemasons, where they achieved little, ultimately collapsing and disappearing long before they were adopted by the lunatic fringe as the all-purpose sinister “they”. So what was their significance? Ferguson doesn’t really explain, other than to say that they were an example of the intellectual networks that were “an integral part of the complex historical process that led Europe from Enlightenment to Revolution to Empire”.
From someone who is not bashful about making bold statements, this is a deeply underwhelming conclusion. But it stands as the basis for his case about the ambiguous, not always progressive nature of networks. It’s an argument that takes in the house of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, the Cambridge Apostles, the Taiping revolt, Henry Kissinger, al-Qaida and so much else besides, right up to Twitter and Donald Trump.
The effect is dizzying more​ than​ stimulating. Ferguson’s breadth of learning is often impressive, but by the end of the book I was little more secure in my understanding of what ​he was trying to get at than at the beginning.
• The Square and the Tower by Niall Ferguson is published by Allen Lane (£25). To order a copy for for £21.25, go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 8646. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

Reintroducing a little electronic hauteur to the airpunch anthemics of 2012’s Battle Born, the Killers’ fifth album opens impressively with the reptilian title track, reminiscent of Achtung Baby-era U2, and the glossy, ironic funk of The Man. Misgivings hover, though, around frontman Brandon Flowers overcoming writer’s block by drawing on his initially reluctant wife’s abusive childhood and PTSD (and enlisting their three young sons to sing “Can’t do this alone/ We need you at home” on the airy, dreamy Some Kind of Love). The most striking song (discounting the Personal Jesus reenactment The Calling) draws on Flowers’ own childhood experience: the surging, synth-laced Tyson vs Douglas, inspired by his shock when the champ hit the mat, could touch gloves with the band’s best.
!!!@@@$$$

Part documentary, part fiction, this profound, elegiac picture is as trickily undefinable as its subject, the city of Cairo in the two years in the run-up to the Egyptian revolution in 2011. The film uses the device of a fictional film-maker grappling with a documentary portrait of his home city, a mercurial subject, as he struggles with more quotidian concerns such as the quest to find somewhere to live. Woven into the story are messages from friends – video missives from Berlin, Baghdad and Beirut – and documentary footage of the city.
It’s a work of gentle, swelling sadness that mourns a spirit of artistic and creative freedom quashed and it has become something of a cause celebre, since it was effectively banned in Egypt after being unceremoniously pulled from the Cairo international film festival last year.
!!!@@@$$$

The Californian singer’s second album finds her teeming with ambition: opener Hungry is all sassy delivery and theatrical production that prove Fergie an unstoppable force of hip-hop-infused pop. It’s a strong start, though what follows is surreal – be it alluding to Pharoahe Monch (encouraging ladies to “rub your boobies”) or the jarring juxtaposition of hyperactive single MILF$ leading into a power ballad. But with sumptuous, old-school beats, plus guest spots from Rick Ross, Nicki Minaj and Fergie’s toddler son, Double Dutchess is fun and gloriously confident, cementing Fergie’s place in pop royalty.
!!!@@@$$$

Having placed Bach’s St John Passion in its liturgical context for recent performances, John Butt’s excellent Dunedin Consort now do the reverse with Monteverdi’s publication of vespers music. Gone are all plainsong antiphons and other contextual additions; what is presented instead is a varied collection of individual pieces of sacred music. This is a shock, though the recording sounds fresh and clear, emphasising transparency without a big reverberant acoustic. But the voices that suit Butt so well in Bach do not quite have the edge for the Italian rhetoric of Monteverdi; not much here is as exciting as Nigel Rogers in Andrew Parrott’s famous small-scale recording.
!!!@@@$$$

A 17-year-old girl learns the ropes in a massive Chinese funeral home, in this slight but sporadically amusing documentary. Ying Ling is our window into a closed world. The industry of death in China is one that comes with rituals, taboos and a slick business model. But, morbidly fascinating as the world is, Ying Ling is not a strong enough character to carry the entire film.
!!!@@@$$$

Director David Rosenberg and choreographer Frauke Requardt have a history of serving up strange, unsettling work. Their three site-specific collaborations to date (The Roof, Electric Hotel, Motor Show) have all been performed outside, but with DeadClub they bring the weirdness up close.
The action takes place on a raised stage around which the audience stand in numbered places. We are party to all the illusions – all the wires, trapdoors and props – that underpin the show. Our complicity and the overtly contrived nature of the staging are essential elements of this entertaining meditation on mortality. The central premise appears to be that some sort of fatal event, perhaps an explosion in a nightclub, has overtaken the five performers, who are then propelled into a space-time loop in which refracted versions of the evening play out for eternity. Or something like that. Like all the best nightmares, DeadClub is constructed on shifting foundations.
Requardt and Rosenberg have fun with the idea of the nightclub as a place of alternative identity and disguise. The performers (Jordan Ajadi, Ruben Brown, Neil Callaghan, Valentina Fermenti, Owen Ridley-DeMonick) appear in a succession of knowingly kitsch tableaux. A chanteuse performs in a tawdry frilled dress, a male crooner delivers not-quite-comprehensible lyrics, go-go boys strut and grind absurdly in shorts and court shoes.
There are echoes of David Lynch’s Blue Velvet, of Crystal Pite and Jonathon Young’s Betroffenheit, of the paintings of Roxana Halls. Threading through these unheimlich archetypes is a shocked, abject figure in shredded underpants. At one point, he’s holding a severed arm, at another, the lifeless body of a deer. He’s the protagonist, the victim of the piece and we identify with his confusion because we don’t know what’s going on either.
A strong feature of the work is Dave Price’s sound design, which progresses from the idiosyncratic to the hellish, with the final minutes played out to sinister industrial percussion. At intervals, a light swings around the stage boundaries, coming to rest, at random, on the face of an audience member. If your number’s up, Rosenberg and Requardt remind us, it’s up. Welcome to DeadClub.
• DeadClub is at The Place, London WC1, until 30 September. Box office: 020 7121 1100
!!!@@@$$$

There’s a group that’s not a group, a movement that doesn’t call itself a movement, an affinity of architects, a “constellation” as one of them calls it, whose time has come. It has been gathering influence for years if not decades and is known among architectural cognoscenti to the point where it is almost old hat, but it is at the moment when it is starting to shape buildings and bits of cities in ways that everyone else might notice.
These architects pay close attention to the fact and detail of the making of buildings – with what actually happens when something is made in one way rather than another, with the properties of scale, light, proportion and material. Their interest isn’t just technical or about craft, but is motivated by the human and social qualities, the physical, emotional and intellectual interrelationships that a built space can encourage. So they combine a care about the specifics of architecture with an awareness of the world beyond it, of both other forms of art and of the everyday.
Examples of this attitude can be found in Horizontal City, a display at this year’s Chicago Architecture Biennial, where architects were asked to choose a favourite interior and create a new installation inspired by it. Some chose great rooms from the history of architecture – the vast Pantheon in Rome, the tiny and exquisite American Bar that Adolf Loos created in Vienna in 1908 – others unbuilt spaces imagined by architectural visionaries or places made significant by their inhabitants. The New York architects Charlap Hyman & Herrero chose the apartment where Yves Saint Laurent lived with his partner, Pierre Berge, and a wondrous collection of art and design. The German-American practice June 14 chose the bar of the Folies-Bergère, as seen in Manet’s famous painting.
The cities of the world will be better places if these architects get more say in their design
The exhibitors turn these inspirations into, for example, three simple cardboard-and-paper models that show Saint Laurent’s home being progressively stripped of its contents after his death. The Folies-Bergère is remade as a mirrored bar (reflection being a significant element of the Manet) surmounted by bright, simplified versions of the bottles and fruit you see in the painting. The point is that all these interiors are architecture, whether designed by named architects or not, and they acquire their meaning from the interaction of their physical properties and the lives they contain. Another layer of meaning is given by their representation in the biennial – the poignant fragility of the models of the Saint Laurent flat and the garishness of the Manet bar which, beneath the varnish of reverence conferred by its status as great art, it would originally have had.
The biennial, the second to be held in Chicago, is something of a coming-out party for this nebulous fraternity. It is directed by Sharon Johnston and Mark Lee, whose Los Angeles-based practice, Johnston Marklee, is now progressing from refined and subtle private houses to refined and subtle cultural buildings, such as a nearly finished addition to the Menil Collection in Houston. They have welcomed into their tent a multinational gathering, with participants from China, India, Chile, Mexico and Colombia, if with a European tilt. Belgium and Switzerland, countries where these kinds of architecture have flourished, are well represented. There are also several British exhibitors, including Caruso St John, 6a, Jack Self and Sam Jacob, formerly of FAT.
Johnston and Lee have called their show Make New History, with the idea of showing how an “open and free” attitude to the past can help generate ideas for the future. History for them can mean many things – canonical or obscure works of architecture, popular or cultural history. It’s part of the business of making connections that go beyond the design of singular buildings. It’s also part of what makes any discipline, architecture included, work: the fact that it is drawing on the experiences of others, not operating in a vacuum.
Examples of this version of history include built and proposed projects, and exhibits made specially for the biennial. There is the modification of the hutongs, the traditional courtyard housing in Beijing, by ZAO/standardarchitecture, through adding tiny libraries and other structures, as an alternative to either demolition or kitsch restoration. There is the Chapel for Scenes of Public Life, an installation by Baukuh and Stefano Graziani of Italy, a version of a renaissance chapel that has been shrunk in size and decorated with pop art graphics, so as to provoke musings on scale and the symbolic meanings of buildings.
What the architects on show don’t want to be is an original genius, someone who produces visions out of nothing. So there’s quite a lot of copying, cutting and pasting, appropriating old things to make new ones. Keith Krumwiede of New York creates funny satirical images in which modern suburban housing pops up in great landscape paintings of the past. Sam Jacob and Tatiana Bilbao of Mexico separately propose towers collaged out of arcades, temples and other fragments.
All of this takes place against the backdrop of further layers of history, in the form of the Chicago Cultural Center, an ornate former library, and beyond that the imposing buildings of Chicago. Often the exhibits play off this setting, as when gracile bamboo towers by Studio Mumbai can be seen in front of heftier concrete and steel blocks outside the window.
The show’s grandest, most crowd-pleasing moment is Vertical City, for which architects were invited to submit very late entries for the Chicago Tribune tower competition of 1922, which asked for the “most beautiful office building in the world” and became famous for rejecting entries by Walter Gropius and Adolf Loos. The architects invited this time are not the sort who often get to design skyscrapers and they come up with a room full of slender models – like Jacob’s and Bilbao’s, and a nice example of woodturners’ art designed by 6a – which, while they should not be taken too literally, are refreshing alternatives to the stagnant mainstream of tall building design.
The Chicago biennial shows nuanced, subtle stuff, and it’s sometimes easier to say what these architects are not than what they are. They are not iconic, futuristic or dogmatic. They don’t claim to save the world – which, one suspects, the next generation of architects will want to do. They don’t go in for manifestos or stylistic labels, for which reason a collective celebration like the Chicago biennial has been slow to happen. Now it has, it’s an important event. Fundamentally, this stuff is good – the cities of the world will be better places if these architects get more say in their design.
It’s an engaging show, although some of the exhibits assume a knowledge of architectural history that most of the general public won’t have, and some of them require a bit of work to appreciate. Here the biennial’s biggest weakness – wilfully opaque captions – verges on the catastrophic, as it converts what could and should be accessible into something intimidating and masonic. They should be changed if at all possible. If you’re not in the business I wouldn’t recommend you cross the Atlantic for it. On the other hand, it’s as good an occasion as any to visit the architecturally astounding city of Chicago.
• Chicago Architecture Biennial, until 7 January 2018
!!!@@@$$$

Cinema might be guilty of creating many of the cliches of romance, but, occasionally at least, it also destroys them. And this year brings two particularly strong examples of the latter. On Body and Soul, the Berlin Golden Bear-winning account of two outcasts who find love in a Hungarian abattoir, might not have the showy impact of Guillermo Del Toro’s forthcoming The Shape of Water (mute cleaner hooks up with fish monster) but the pictures share two things. Both combine the fantastic and idiosyncratic to beguiling effect; both rewrite the rules that govern who is deemed worthy of love in the movies.
The two main characters in On Body and Soul are Endre (Géza Morcsányi), the reserved manager of a slaughterhouse who hides his emotions along with his useless left arm, and Maria (Alexandra Borbély), the new quality-control manager at the plant. It’s never explained, but Maria seems to be on the autistic spectrum. She struggles with the banal to-and-fro of social interaction and recoils from physical contact. But at night, she and Endre share the same dreams – a mystical but matter-of-fact connection that transforms both into deer in a sparkling winter woodland.
The film gets much of its considerable impact from director Ildikó Enyedi’s elegant juxtapositions. The obscene, intimate details of animal butchery against the delicate suspense of the dream sequences; the lovely crystalline score that sounds like melting icicles against the brutal sound design in the abattoir; the palette of frosted pastels for day, which warms to something more sensual and inviting at night. It’s an exquisitely offbeat love story and I fell headlong for its angular, awkward charm.
!!!@@@$$$

Secrets to hide. Secrets to discover. The two characters in Péter Eötvös’s one-act opera Senza Sangue have as many mysteries to unpack as their counterparts in its companion piece – Bartók’s venerable Bluebeard’s Castle. When put together they make an evening of dark, almost unbearable tension, easily outdoing cinema at its own game.
In a truly European collaboration, the international Armel Opera festival brought co-productions from Avignon and Metz to the Hackney Empire, along with the impressive Pannon Philharmonic from Hungary. The 70-piece orchestra was so large it filled the stalls, pushing the audience into the circles above. This gave a tremendous emphasis to the orchestral sound, sometimes at the expense of the singers, but thrillingly enhancing the drama inherent in both scores.
First heard at the Barbican earlier this year, Senza Sangue is based on the novel of the same name by Alessandro Baricco. Its two characters, Woman and Man, meet by chance. She recognises him as one of those who killed her father and brother in a civil war when she was a child. The encounter becomes part-interrogation, part-courtship, with Eötvös’s edgy vocal lines climbing over scurrying strings, fidgety woodwind and grunting interjections from the contrabassoon. A doom-laden bass drum punctuates the narrative as we learn that the Man’s accomplices have all met untimely deaths. Has the Woman picked them off? Will the Man be next? She carries a gun, so it seems more than likely, but desire for revenge is replaced by desire for sex, and we never find out.
Compelling mezzo Albane Carrére reprised her Barbican appearance as Woman opposite the more vocally restrained baritone Romain Bockler. Róbert Alfödi’s glacial direction only increased the tension and with Eötvös himself conducting this made a fine appetiser before the Bartók.
“If you love me, ask no questions,” sings Bluebeard to his new bride, Judith. Well, if that doesn’t make a woman suspicious, nothing will. Sure enough, Judith wants to know about her new man’s past and what lies behind the seven sealed doors in his chilly, windowless castle. An hour later, she wishes she hadn’t asked. But what an hour: Bartók’s radiant score glimmered beneath this folk tale of dreadful secrets and untold cruelty (wonderfully lit by Philippe Grosperrin), with Adrienn Miksch implacable as Judith and Bálint Szabó a hard-grained and steely Bluebeard.
Simon Rattle has been in post as music director of the London Symphony Orchestra barely two weeks but already this ensemble sounds revivified; strings more sonorous, brass gleaming, woodwind lithe and fleet, percussion crisp and vital. This was always a classy operation but Rattle’s much-anticipated homecoming has turbo-charged the LSO; a new confidence hangs in the air like an intoxicating perfume. The Gergiev days are already a distant memory.
Second in the celebratory This Is Rattle concert series last week was a double performance of Berlioz’s “opera without decor and costumes”, his sprawling  Damnation of Faust. This was an interesting choice: after Rattle’s inaugural programme of new British music, here was a piece much championed by Colin Davis when he ran the LSO. Like his decision to include Elgar’s Enigma in the first concert, this appeared to be a nod to the orchestra’s deep artistic history. But whatever the reason, it gave Rattle a golden opportunity to show that the Barbican is too small for his ambitions. With 300 performers squeezed on to the platform (and a 90-strong children’s choir in the auditorium), there was hardly room for anyone to breathe. Now see why I need a new concert hall, was his clear message.
Tenor Bryan Hymel as Faust sailed serenely over Berlioz’s most upholstered orchestration, with Karen Cargill sweet and vulnerable as his love, Marguerite. Gábor Bretz as the drunken Brander drained every last drop out of his silly song to a rat, aided by the excellent LSO chorus, drilled by chorus master Simon Halsey to portray soldiers, students, peasants, gnomes, sylphs, demons and the doomed. Baritone Christopher Purves was a last-minute replacement as Mephistopheles – an inspired choice, his mix of twinkling charm and cold menace perfect for the role.
When Rattle turned to conduct the young Tiffin singers in the auditorium, the audience saw what the orchestra and chorus see all the time – Sir Simon at work, directing operations with coaxing, smiling assurance, using his special gift to make every performer feel their contribution is vital.
It’s a gift he needed in spades on Thursday evening when pushing his players through a gruelling, uplifting programme of Stravinsky ballet scores. Playing The Firebird, Petrushka and The Rite of Spring in one sitting is a tall order and, for the most part, the LSO triumphed. Occasional ragged entries marred some moments of The Firebird but Rattle still engineered some astonishing passages, not least the quietest triple pianissimo the strings have surely ever produced.
Petrushka fizzed like a good champagne, while Rite of Spring exhausted us with its primal violence. Rattle conducted from memory throughout. They were taking the same programme to Paris on Friday and will repeat it at the Barbican tonight to bring the celebrations to a triumphant close. Everyone is going to need a good lie-down for days afterwards…
Star ratings (out of 5)Senza Sangue ★★★★Bluebeard’s Castle ★★★★The Damnation of Faust ★★★★★Stravinsky ballet music ★★★★★
!!!@@@$$$

This neatly opens and closes with two works produced in the same year – but each utterly different. Benjamin Britten’s brilliantly precocious four-movement Holiday Diary from 1933 is a 20-year-old’s brashly confident statement of intent, ushering in a new era, while a transcription of Brook Green Suite, Holst’s last work, feels like a farewell to a lost pastoral idyll. Pianist Maria Marchant excels in both but is most impressive in Kenneth Leighton’s Six Studies Op 56, from 1969, displaying cool control in the monolithic chordal movements and great dexterity in the highly complex contrapuntal sections. Other treats include a new piano piece from the baritone Roderick Williams, a blue-skied and sunny Goodwood by the Sea.
!!!@@@$$$

Professor of evolutionary psychology at the University of Oxford
We were all gearing up for the summer of love when, in 1967, Desmond Morris’s The Naked Ape took us by storm. Its pitch was that humans really were just apes, and much of our behaviour could be understood in terms of animal behaviour and its evolution. Yes, we were naked and bipedal, but beneath the veneer of culture lurked an ancestral avatar. With his zoologist’s training (he had had a distinguished career studying the behaviour of fishes and birds at Oxford University as part of the leading international group in this field), he gave us a picture of who we really are. In the laid-back, blue-smoke atmosphere of the hippy era, the book struck a chord with the wider public – if for no other reason than that, in the decade of free love, it asserted that humans had the largest penis for body size of all the primates.
The early 1960s had seen the first field studies of monkeys and apes, and a corresponding interest in human evolution and the biology of contemporary hunter-gatherers. Morris latched on to the fact that the sexual division of labour (the men away hunting, the women at home gathering) necessitated some mechanism to ensure the sexual loyalty of one’s mate – this was the era of free love, after all. He suggested that becoming naked and developing new erogenous zones (notably, ear lobes and breasts), not to mention face-to-face copulation (all but unknown among animals), helped to maintain the couple’s loyalty to each other.
Morris’s central claim, that much of our behaviour can be understood in the context of animal behaviour, has surely stood the test of time, even if some of the details haven’t. Our hairlessness (at around 2m years ago) long predates the rise of pair bonds (a mere 200,000 years ago). It owes its origins to the capacity to sweat copiously (another uniquely human trait) in order to allow us to travel longer distances across sunny savannahs. But he is probably still right that those bits of human behaviour that enhance sexual experience function to promote pair bonds – even if pair bonds are not lifelong in the way that many then assumed. Humans are unusual in the attention they pay to other people’s eyes – for almost all other animals, staring is a threat (as, of course, it can also be for us under certain circumstances).
I can’t honestly say if the book influenced my decision to study the behaviour of wild monkeys and, later, human ethology. Having been immersed in the same ethological tradition out of which Morris had come, viewing humans this way was no controversial claim. Older zoologists, however, were a great deal more sceptical, often viewing the book as facile. What it might well have done for me was to create an environment in which the funding agencies were more willing to fund the kinds of fieldwork on animals and humans that I later did.
Science journalist, broadcaster and author
From the moment The Naked Ape was published, female scientists and feminists rolled their eyes. For good reason. Desmond Morris credited hunting by males (and only males) as the one thing that drove up human intelligence and social cooperation. In a 1976 paper, American anthropologists Adrienne Zihlman and Nancy Tanner laughed at his implication that females had “little or no part in the evolutionary saga except to bear the next generation of hunters”.
His problem with women ran through every chapter. Let’s start with what females were doing while males were evolving. Morris answered: “The females found themselves almost perpetually confined to the home base.” But by his own admission, hunters would sometimes be away for weeks at a time chasing a kill. So how exactly were the womenfolk managing to feed their families in the interim?
His deliberate choice to ignore hunter-gatherers – the only people on Earth who live anything like the way our distant ancestors might have – blinded him to the fact that women are rarely housebound. We know, for example, that women gathering plants, roots and tubers and killing small animals tend to bring back more reliable calories than men do. What’s more, in many hunter-gather communities, including the Nanadukan Agta of the Philippines and the aboriginal Martu of Western Australia, women hunt. Martu women do it for sport.
What about the rest of us, who no longer hunt and gather, but live in towns and cities? “Work has replaced hunting… It is a predominantly male pursuit,” he wrote. Oh, Desmond, seriously? Anthropologists are fairly unanimous that in our distant past, men and women shared almost all work, including sourcing food and setting up shelter. That’s the harsh reality of subsistence living. Throughout history, there have always been working women.
His consistent failure to understand the impact of patriarchy and female repression bordered on the bizarre. He claimed that humans developed the loving pair bond to assure males their partners wouldn’t stray while they were off hunting. Females evolved to be faithful. But a few pages later he mentioned chastity belts and female genital mutilation as means of forcibly keeping women virginal.
“A case has been recorded of a male boring holes in his mate’s labia and then padlocking her genitals after each copulation,” he wrote, with the pathological detachment of a scientist observing flies in a jar. He never asked himself the obvious question: If women evolved to be faithful to one man, why did men resort to such brutal measures?
On other points of fact, time has simply proven him wrong. “Clearly, the naked ape is the sexiest primate alive,” he stated. Nope. That honour goes to the bonobo. Which incidentally happens to be a female-dominated species.
For 50 years, Morris’s arrogance (large chunks of his slim list of references were to his own work) has done untold damage to people’s understanding of our evolutionary past. We might forgive him for being a man of his time. But as a scientist, for choosing to overlook evidence right in front of his eyes, The Naked Ape still deserves as little respect as he showed half the human species.
Angela Saini’s latest book, Inferior: How Science Got Women Wrong and the New Research That’s Rewriting the Story, is published by Fourth Estate
Broadcaster, primatologist and teaching fellow at Anglia Ruskin University, Cambridge
Like many zoologists, biologists and naturalists before me, I was drawn to the thrill of exploration and tracking animals. But as a 12-year-old living in a seaside town in Norfolk, there wasn’t much to explore and limited species to stalk. Instead, my quarry was old books about nature, anthropology and evolution, and my territory was the dusty shelves of old bookshops. I still vividly remember chancing upon a slim volume one winter weekend. I slid the book from the shelf, mainly prompted by the title. I was fascinated by apes, and the word “naked” had a definite (if slightly intangible) appeal to my 12-year-old self.
I don’t think I’ve ever read a book quite so slowly. Partly because I needed a copy of the Oxford English Dictionary to help me comprehend each paragraph. I didn’t want to miss a beat in what became an intoxicating series of revelations about not only my species but apparently about me, too. I’d never experienced a book that reached out to the reader in such a way and even now, this still holds true for The Naked Ape in that you can’t help but examine where (or even if) you fit in with Morris’s observations.
I brushed over the sections covering the evolutionary achievements of the penis, the covert mission of breasts and the untold benefits of being naked, but stopped dead in my tracks when I read how, despite our few millennia as a species relishing in the glow of civilisation, our long lineage from our great ape precursors and hominid ancestors had left its indelible mark not only on our anatomy but upon our behaviour, also.
This idea that we are simply the by-product of millions of years of evolutionary tinkering and are not alone as the pinnacle of some benevolent creation was such a revelation that when the book was released it shocked many. Yes, this had been written before but never quite so eloquently and never in a way that was aimed at a non-expert audience. At long last, they were being invited to share in some of the biggest, best-kept secrets of our somewhat extended family.
As a scientist, there’s a lot more I could say… of course, some of its ideas are now dated and wrong but it was 50 years ago and science does move inexorably onwards. The thing about reading The Naked Ape is that it can do one of two things. It can either set light to the kindling of an inquiring mind, or – if it causes your eye to twitch in consternation at, for example, outdated views on the sexes – make you take stock of what you actually know. It sends you on an academic exercise, sieving through persuasive argument in order to pick out the tantalising glimmer of empirical evidence. I’ve gone from one to the other. I fondly still have my copy tucked between a book on baboons and a treatise on skeletal pathology.
The Naked Ape is like an old friend I’ve grown up with, realised that they’re not quite as perfect as I once thought – but have decided that they’re still cool enough to hang out with anyway.
Author and presenter of Radio 4’s Inside Science
I spent rather too much time in the last couple of weeks arguing with men about breasts. I forget how it began, but there was a phenomenal volume of Twitter correspondence asserting one of two statements as scientific fact: the first was that the permanently visible breasts in female humans (compared to all other apes, whose breasts only enlarge during lactation or estrus) are signals to attract males. The second was that the primary function of breasts is to attract males.
The latter seems trivial to dispel: a baby that starves to death is a greater evolutionary pressure than whether an adult male is turned on – breasts exist to feed babies. The first argument is trickier to contest. In nature, there are wondrous variants of what we call “secondary sexual traits” – those bodily parts or behaviours evolved to aid mate choice – the peacock’s tail, the bowerbird’s bower, lekking stags. For humans, it might seem obvious that breasts fall into that category, and in my online debates, in all cases, the evidence presented found its evolutionary origins in The Naked Ape: “The enlarged female breasts are usually thought of primarily as maternal rather than sexual developments, but there seems to be little evidence for this.”
The question of why we are different to other apes is valid. Aside from the definitional function of mammary glands in mammals, the reasons for our morphological differences are certainly worthy of study. Morris goes on: “The answer stands out as clearly as the female bosom itself. The protuberant, hemispherical breasts of the female must surely be copies of the fleshy buttocks, and the sharply defined red lips around the mouth must be copies of the red labia.”
Did anyone take this seriously in the 1960s? To me, this is little more than salacious guesswork, erotic fantasy science. And this is the fundamental problem with The Naked Ape: it is a book full of exciting ideas that have little scientific validity. The attractiveness of an idea in science has no bearing on its veracity. Sometimes they are presented as “common sense” arguments – it’s obvious, innit? But common sense is the opposite of science – our senses deceive us all the time, our profoundly limited experience skewers us with bias. In the case of the attractiveness function of breasts, this idea is almost entirely untested. The data simply does not exist. Maybe visible breasts are a secondary sexual trait in humans. It would be unusual, as in nature most of these types of traits are on males, and not all cultures regard breasts as erotic. Did boobs replace bums as a sexual signal when we became upright? I don’t know, but the point is that no one does. We could test this today with genetics, by establishing genes involved in breast development and searching the genome for the signatures of selection. But this has not been done.
In my experience, much of the academic field that The Naked Ape is emblematic of – evolutionary psychology – falls victim to similar scientific crimes. We call it “adaptationism”, or “panglossianism”, after Dr Pangloss from Voltaire’s Candide. An eternal optimist, he suggested there was a reason for everything, and everything had a reason. Hence our noses had evolved to balance spectacles on; we have two legs because that suits the dimensions of a tailored trouser. For Morris, and millions of men on the internet, breasts are attractive, therefore their purpose is to attract.
There is plenty to like about this book. Its descriptions of the physiology on show during various human activities are accurate, detailed and genial. To position us as animals and under the auspices of natural selection is happily Darwinian. The Naked Ape was colossally successful – 20m copies have been sold, which is an astonishing number for a book ostensibly about human evolution. Supporters have argued that its real value is in popularising science. The problem is, and has always been, that it is not science. It is a book of just so stories.
Adam Rutherford’s latest book, A Brief History of Everyone Who Ever Lived, is published by Weidenfeld & Nicholson
1928Born in the village of Purton, near Swindon.
1941
Attends boarding school in Wiltshire. Growing up during the second world war, he later claims that he pursued surrealism and zoology as a retreat from the human race. He tells the Bookseller in 2013: “If you are at all sensitive as a child and you see adults killing one another – and not in a criminal way, but an accepted way – that is a strange learning process. I thought, ‘This is the species I belong to?’”
1948Following national service, enrols as an undergraduate in zoology at Birmingham university.
1950Exhibits his surrealist art work with Joan Miró in London.
1954Publishes his doctoral thesis, entitled The Reproductive Behaviour of the Ten-Spined Stickleback.
1956 Is appointed head of the Granada TV and film unit at the Zoological Society, making programmes including Zoo Time for ITV; David Attenborough presented the rival show Zoo Quest for the BBC. Presents approximately 500 episodes of the show.
1957Organises a exhibition called Paintings by Chimpanzees at the Institute of Contemporary Arts.
1959Becomes the Zoological Society’s curator of mammals.
1966Writes The Naked Ape over four weeks. “People think I deliberately wrote it to make a shocking bestseller, but it wasn’t like that,” he tells the Guardian in 2007.
1967Appointed director of the ICA, where he encountered figures such as Henry Moore, Francis Bacon, Salvador DalÍ, Pablo Picasso and Barbara Hepworth. Supervises the institute’s move to the Mall. The first edition of The Naked Ape is published on 12 October and is serialised in the Daily Mirror.
1968Following the success of The Naked Ape, he leaves his ICA post and moves to Malta with his wife.
1973Returns to the UK to take up a research fellowship at Wolfson College, Oxford.
1977Publishes his book Manwatching, which developed the concept of “body language”. It is one of more than 40 books Morris has written, including The Human Zoo, Intimate Behaviour, Babywatching, Dogwatching and Christmas Watching.
1978Is elected vice-chairman of Oxford United football club.
1986Begins work on The Animals Roadshow, co-presented with Sarah Kennedy.
2016An updated edition of his 1981 book, The Soccer Tribe, is published with a foreword by José Mourinho.
2017The BBC makes a documentary about his artistic career entitled The Secret Surrealist. The Express describes his artwork as “very obviously zoological… full of fantastical life forms resembling cells and gene maps and creatures of the deep, yet also possessing the friendly charm of The Clangers”. Ian Tucker
!!!@@@$$$

Francis O’Gorman’s new book centres on his belief that people in the 21st century are detaching themselves from the past to their detriment. He examines the ways we forget: the erasure of memory that comes with age, and the modern impulse to untether ourselves from the places we came from, orienting ourselves instead towards the future, with scant regard for history and its lessons.
O’Gorman (whose last published work was a history of worrying) writes with a crisp and elegant, if occasionally high-handed, tone. He explores the role of cultural memory in classical society and the west’s shifting relationship with history across the centuries. He looks at the emergence of a culture of forgetting, a desire to overwrite and wipe clean.
Cultural memory, he argues, shapes our sense of time and connectedness to one another on a local and global level. By “winding down the portcullis” on the past, we risk closing our minds.
• Forgetfulness: Making the Modern Culture of Amnesia by Francis O’Gorman is published by Bloomsbury (£14). To order a copy go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

Neglected and in many cases misunderstood, Sibelius’s piano works remain something of secret. The celebrated Norwegian Leif Ove Andsnes is on a mission to share them. As he readily confesses, they are uneven in quality, some sounding little more than short, sweet musings, others like shadowy imitations of Chopin or Liszt. All appear worlds away from the raw splendour of the symphonic works. Or perhaps not. The three lyric pieces of Kyllikki, Op 41 (1904), inspired by Finland’s epic, The Kalevala, or the Five Sketches (1929) do echo the timbre and mood of his orchestral writing. On closer listening you feel a door to Sibelius’s mysterious world has been unlocked. And the playing is beautiful.
!!!@@@$$$

Strange things are afoot on Tricky’s 13th LP: its quality, for one. The trip-hop maverick’s former foil, Martina Topley-Bird, guests for the first time in 14 years; a sombre treat. Elsewhere, Russian rappers jostle against a perplexing cover version of Hole’s Doll Parts. The former are excellent, with the lairy Scriptonite juxtaposed against Tricky’s malevolent drawl on Same As It Ever Was (a Talking Heads reference, surely). The latter? If only Tricky had sung it, rather than one of his myriad guests. Throughout, Tricky creates a claustrophobic world full of stark bass lines, pop digressions and slinky Bristol moments; his duet with Francesca Belmonte, New Stole, is particularly moreish.
!!!@@@$$$

Strike (BBC1) | iPlayerElectric Dreams (C4) | channel4.comDoc Martin (ITV) | itv.comTransparent (Amazon) | amazon.co.ukBad Move (ITV) | itv.comW1A (BBC2) | iPlayer
Was there a little score-settling going on in The Silkworm, the concluding episode of which aired last Sunday to round off the sadly too-short Strike series? Certainly it was heavy on inside-track knowledge, gossip and bitchiness from the land of publishing, a world in which the author here nom-de-plumed as “Robert Galbraith” has long service. And thus one line fairly leapt out as Strike, the languid, limping Tom Burke, reached shaggily for yet another fag at a jazzy rooftop book launch.
“They moan about declining book sales, but everyone I’ve seen so far in publishing either has a drink in their hand or can only meet for lunch.” Um… I’m sure that’s true somewhere in publishing, but perhaps especially true in the case of your just happening to be JK Rowling. I seem to recall Rowling was livid when her Galbraith identity was leaked, even though the books had already garnered high praise from the likes of Val McDermid; she’d wanted to be judged blind on thriller merit. Yet without her “outing”, it’s far from certain the BBC would have picked up on the filmability of the books and we would have been denied Cormoran Strike, which would have been a huge shame.
The plots have admittedly been overly complex and have surely disappointed the Potterati kidults, frantically combing the opener looking for Hogwartia (“so… so… the actress who plays Robin has exactly the same surname, though not exactly cos it’s spelt wrongly, as Hermione! And, and, that’s it!), but they’ll just have to be damnably disappointed. What has been discovered is an undoubted chemistry between Strike, with his sweet sudden smile hinting of past damage, and Robin, with her ingenious whip-smarts and her frantically dull and needy fiance. It’s a lucky chemistry that can’t even be written: the on-screen partnership is subtle and unique and to be relished and cherished. They reunite next year, grand news for all.
Holliday Grainger, that not-Hermione, flexed her acting muscles the same night by portraying, with equal distinction, a wildly different beast, a telepathic “teep” in the opener of Electric Dreams. This series, C4’s ambitious reworking of the short stories of Philip K Dick, is bound to suffer from comparisons to Charlie Brooker’s Black Mirror, shanghaied two years back by the deep-pocketed Netflix. In almost all ways the comparisons will be unfair.
Brooker can update almost until the moment of transmission, taking into account every techno breakthrough, each new social media phenomenon, selfies and snowflakes and trolls and the rest, to, essentially, lube up the present, through a glass darkly. Dick died in 1982.
This one of his, The Hood Maker, was written in 1955, smack in the hangover of McCarthyism, and much of the sense of chill paranoia remained, given fresh impetus by current twitches over eavesdropping by our internet giants. Though how much right we have to privacy, when half the nation seems to want to rush to the net blabbing its every secret thought in colonic detail, is quite another question. But it’s hard to be cutting edge in science fiction when some your source material is more than half a century old; on reflection, C4 and its adapters, aided by some starry casting, have made a relatively magnificent fist of it. Give this series a little time and care: next Sunday’s, The Commuter, featuring Timothy Spall, is simultaneously standout sweet and harrowing. And Philip Kindred Dick remains rightly feted as a visionary to rival Wells and Orwell.
Two years Doc Martin’s been off our screens and I find, somewhat head-scratchingly, that I’ve somewhat missed it. A rather welcome fainting lady vicar came to town, and failed to marry dunderhead Joe, and Al’s fat dad poisoned everyone, and thus all was back to normal among the usual yahoos and googans of Portwenn.
At heart, despite the clotted-cream fantasies, this still revolves around the Doc and the fact that the problem of living in any paradise, anywhere, will always, surely, simply be people and relationships. At one point, poor Louisa asked her husband, famously filter-free to the point I’m always staggered he passed any GMC screenings, of their son, James Henry: “Do you think he likes me?” Answers the now-peerless Martin Clunes: “Who knows?” A tragedy stuck inside a comedy, as so many fine British comedies have ever been at heart.
The enjoyment derived from Transparent, whose new season on Amazon centres on a family trip to Israel, will almost wholly depend on your tolerance for large and fast-talking Jewish families with a transgender father. Amid some sterling Jewish humour, some sterling matzo balls and some sex – much sex in fact, via all the siblings – there are immensely shrewd insights, especially on the nature of secrets, which underpin so much of this. “[In large families] you tell a lie just to get some privacy. Secrets are kind of a perfect stand-in for boundaries.” I’m coming shamefully late to this, but already it haunts: that mesmeric LA sunshine sprawling its fingers over such different bodies, such different heartaches. It’s one of the most tremendously kind, human works to have come out of America for, possibly, decades. Utterly hooked.
I wonder what led two rather fine R4 hosts, Jack Dee and Miles Jupp, who steer I’m Sorry I Haven’t a Clue and The News Quiz with panache and, I had thought, a true compass for comedy, to the sub-funny Bad Move? Naked pocket-stuffing greed perhaps? Dee, who co-wrote the thing, downsizes to the country and finds, rather than a rural idyll, recalcitrant locals and dodgy broadband, ho ho. Compared to Rob Beckett’s Static last week it’s pant-wettingly hilarious. Yet so, comparatively, are rectal polyps.
And so it was a genuine delight to hear, once more, the strains of the Animal Magic theme as W1A returned for a third series. One of the joys of watch-again is that, in addition to the more garish tropes to which we’re now used – the folding bikes, Monica Dolan’s perpetual Welsh whining, Jessica Hynes’s PR gorgon – one can find, in almost every 30 seconds, unlooked-for subtleties. David Westhead as Neil Reid, the one-man Greek chorus whose muttered “bollocks” says, in sadly splendid isolation, what we’re all thinking, and the more hidden verbal tics from deadpan narrator David Tennant: “the department for culture, media and also for some reason sport”… “assistant of some sort Will Humphries”.
Incidentally, did you notice Dolan in Strike, playing the wrongly jailed wife? True skills, to turn from blistering darkness to high comedy over two nights. W1A continues to draw flak, roundly undeserved: too BBC-smug, too London, too hugging of itself, too versed in PR knowingness, too not-Brexit. I revere it as a brave commission, and a gleeful and celebratory use of most of the best comedy actors and improvisers of the last decade, surely a golden age, and long may it continue: at least until a massive backdrop of caustic creator John Morton appears on one of the walls, at which point the BBC can officially be proved to have eaten itself.
!!!@@@$$$

The actor Julius Tennon is thrilled to be appearing alongside his Oscar-winning wife, Viola Davis, in the new season of her hit show, How to Get Away with Murder, later this month. It is rare they work together onscreen.
Offscreen, however, the power couple spend much of their time working together for they have a joint mission: to change the face of Hollywood by increasing diversity across the industry.
A recent study showed that despite the huge success of recent films such as Fences, starring Davis and Denzel Washington; Moonlight; and Hidden Figures, Hollywood remained as white and male dominated as ever. Representation of race, gender, LGBT people and disability had barely changed in the past 10 years, according to the research by academics at the University of Southern California (USC).
Tennon said: “That study was important because it’s highlighting what the state of Hollywood really is.”
He added: “Obviously there are pipeline issues at the top with people of color.” Some networks were doing a good job, he said, but “slow she goes. It’s a brick by brick situation.
“When I go to meetings, it’s generally not African Americans that I’m talking to about getting something greenlit. Folks at the top are going to have to make decisions about trying to make systemic change. That’s the only way it’s going to happen – by creating a pipeline of opportunities for folk to get in there, go through it and get out and start being a part of it at the top.”
He and Davis, who married 14 years ago and have a seven-year-old daughter, Genesis, set up their multimedia company, JuVee Productions, in 2011 to tackle the problem from the grassroots. They wanted to create more suitable roles for Davis’s talent.
Tennon, 63, said: “We started it out of a need for her career, for Viola to be more than this woman who turns a piece of baloney into a filet mignon. She was getting one or two scenes in a movie and some guest star TV work, but after Antwone Fisher [a 2002 film starring and directed by Denzel Washington], there were a lot of eyes on her.”
They quickly decided to expand their goal and try to create opportunities for a diverse range of people on and off the screen.
“While we had this elevation in the industry, we felt it was a chance to give opportunities to others, whether that be actors or below-the-line people,” Tennon said. “We consider ourselves the voice of the voiceless.”
The USC study looked at the 100 top grossing films at the US box office in 2016. It found that 5.8% of directors were black and 3.3% Asian. Just 4.2% of directors, 20.7% of producers, 13.2% of writers and 1.7% of composers were female; while only 31% of the speaking roles went to women. LGBT characters filled 1.1% of all speaking parts and people with disabilities 2.7%.
No black women appeared in 47 of the films and there were no black female directors.
Viola Davis said via email: “The reason diversity is still an issue is that everyone is not ‘put to task’.”
She said it was a much bigger issue than casting and stories, agreeing with Tennon that it was a “pipeline problem”. “If a writer, director, cinematographer, actor of color is out there, they have the talent but haven’t had the opportunities. So, when the studios start putting together their movies, they go for who they know, who they’ve worked with … the hottest, buzziest, the one with the résumé … and most of them are white.”
She added: “No one says anything, because why would you? To change is to risk losing money, changing your vision, being exposed. It’s a problem that needs to be tackled from the studio heads who give the green light vote to film-makers who simply can envision a role differently, to producers who can give a budding gifted cinematographer, grip, writer of color a chance, and finally to audiences to plop down money to see a film character differently. It requires being awoke.”
These days, Tennon, who has appeared in more than 50 films and TV series, concentrates mostly on running JuVee and producing. The company takes on everything from virtual reality and digital content to television and film.
Their first film, Lila & Eve, with Davis and Jennifer Lopez, was released in 2015. Custody, featuring Davis, followed in 2016. Next spring, they start shooting the Personal History of Rachel Dupree, the story of an African American woman struggling to farm the Badlands in South Dakota in 1917. A biopic of Barbara Jordan, the first southern black woman to be elected to the House of Representatives, is in the development stage. Both will star 52-year-old Davis.
They are also working on the movie adaptation of Rachel Lloyd’s critically acclaimed book Girls Like Us, a true story about sex trafficking.
Tennon said Davis, who won an Oscar for Fences this year and was nominated for Oscars in 2012 for The Help and 2009 for Doubt, “touches people across the globe”. He added: “We’re using the platform to push things forward.”
The first three seasons of How to Get Away with Murder are on Netflix. “It’s exploded her star. She’s sitting in all these different living rooms where a black woman wasn’t sitting, and it’s powerful. As a company, we feel like we have to make sure that the content going out is above and beyond. When we create narratives, we want them to be whole and full and rich, and non-stereotypical.”
He continued: “We’re in a market now that’s accelerated by technology. Diversity is what we’re bringing to the digital space. We want content for everyone and content that people of color will consume.”
Mentioning the global success of Moonlight, Hidden Figures and Fences, he said: “We’re in a space now where diversity is good business and people should see it like that.”
Organizations should be hiring people of color in executive positions, he believes, and thinking how to “include these people to help shape things so they have a complete slate, that has a little bit of everything”. “Those organizations that are thinking that way, big and expansive, will be the winners,” he said.
Tennon’s first public performance was at 14, when he performed the I Have a Dream speech by Martin Luther King Jr in a school assembly. Encouraged by his English teacher, who thought he had a beautiful voice, he became the first African American in the drama department at the University of Tulsa – which he attended on an American football scholarship – and went on to pursue his dream of becoming an actor.
Now he, along with the woman he describes as “one of a handful of great actresses of our time”, hopes to give others the chance to achieve their dreams, too.
!!!@@@$$$

Short Cuts (R4) | iPlayer
In the Studio (BBC World Service) | iPlayer
No Place of Greater Safety (R4) | iPlayer
FRDH | FRDH Podcast
The BBC has been taking on the modern world of podcasting for quite some time now, with varying degrees of success. I enjoy it when it makes radio shows with a podcast feel, such as Grace Dent’s The Untold, and Short Cuts, hosted by Josie Long. Both are excellent. What do I mean by a podcast feel? Well, both programmes are producer-driven (though this is not really acknowledged in The Untold), unafraid of adding atmospheric background sounds and based around the telling of offbeat but true stories; ordinary people in the midst of an extraordinary time. Short Cuts is on at the moment and I recommend this week’s episode, partly because I know one of the subjects. Joe Benjamin is a well-known figure in Brixton (where I live). He brought a conch shell with him when he came to the UK from Bermuda, and Short Cuts lets him recall the time he blew it in Brixton market for a very particular reason.
I like the BBC’s chatty podcasts rather less – with the honourable exception of Mayo and Kermode – and the Beeb is yet to find the right tone with its forays into other podcast genres, such as true crime. It’s hard for BBC-trained journalists to find the right mixture of intimacy and journalistic rigour. They have an awful tendency to sound like a robot trying to be your friend. (Dent and Long, you note, come from outside the BBC.)
Anyway. Here is another “new” BBC podcast: the World Service’s In the Studio. The strange thing about In the Studio is that it’s actually a radio series that has been running for quite some time. You can catch up on lots of episodes on the World Service website. But now it’s been rebranded as an All! New! Cultural! podcast which aims to take the listener into “the minds of the world’s most creative people”. It has upped its status by getting Tim Marlow to top and tail the show. Marlow, an excellent arts journalist for many years, is now the artistic director of the Royal Academy. He knows his stuff and brings prestige. And the In the Studio subjects are now more high status too, with playwright Kwame Kwei-Armah and TV writer David Simon talking two weeks ago, and Man Booker prize-winner Marlon James the subject of last week’s episode. Interviewed by the just-slightly-too-BBC Andrea Kidd, James, who’s just started writing a trilogy called the Dark Star, was very interesting on the difference between various countries’ attitudes to midnight and the dark. In many non-western societies, he explained, “bright star means nothing. Bright star just means you’re supernova-ing and you’ll be obsolete. Dark star is brimming with depth and potential.” An engaging, inspiring conversation and just right for a podcast.
Back to straightforward radio reporting. Michael Goldfarb’s No Place of Greater Safety on Radio 4 took us to Syria, Afghanistan, South Sudan, where bombing civilian hospitals is now considered a “tactic” of war.
Once, years ago, wars mostly took place in empty fields, with armies advancing or retreating. In the first world war, said one expert, the ratio of soldiers killed to civilians was about 10 to one. Now, it’s the other way around: for every soldier that dies in conflict, 10 civilians are killed. Civilians are the main victims of today’s wars. Plus, of course, if you attack hospitals, you are likely to kill doctors. Health – or rather your access to healthcare – has become “another weapon, another way to wage wars”.
The experts interviewed sounded resigned but determined and, as ever, Goldfarb’s reporting and presentation were exemplary. He has his own history podcast, FRDH, which I recommend. It’s been going a year now, beginning – imagine! – in a pre-Trump era. At first, Goldfarb tried to cover US history in a broad manner (he still does: the latest episode is about Berkeley in 1969) but he has found that the president and matters arising from the White House are what his listeners want to hear about. We’re suckers for punishment, clearly.
!!!@@@$$$

In interviews, Jennifer Egan used to spend a fair amount of time explaining what she wasn’t interested in doing with her writing. Verisimilitude was boring. The linear was “the weird scourge of writing prose”. Conventional narratives were absolutely not her bag. In the same conversations, she would sometimes refer to her time at the University of Pennsylvania, when she was “a literary theory nut”; such ideas, she insisted scarily, were with her still. All of which made it seem a safe bet that when she finally delivered a new book – it’s six years since the publication of her Pulitzer prize-winning fourth novel, A Visit from the Goon Squad, which came with a chapter in the form of a PowerPoint presentation – it would be every bit as formally daring as her last.
But, no. Reach for your smelling salts, Goon Squad fans. For her next trick, Egan has written a 400-page historical novel called Manhattan Beach. Set in New York during the Depression and the second world war – specifically, much of the action takes place in the Brooklyn Navy Yard, then the biggest builder and repairer of allied ships – it comes not only with a forward-moving plot, but with a thoroughly old-fashioned heroine: the kind of girl, brave and determined, with whom readers are almost duty bound to fall in love. A Victorian novel by any other name, its sensibility is, in other words, so thoroughly conventional, I can’t help but wonder: when, exactly, did its author start thinking verisimilitude and the linear might be interesting after all?
Egan laughs. “I’m thrilled you felt it was like a Victorian novel,” she says, speaking on Skype from her home in New York. “I’m obsessed with the Victorian novel. I can’t help it. I feel like the novel then was so powerful and agile in ways I’m not sure it is now.” That said, she isn’t entirely sure how much of a break Manhattan Beach – already longlisted for the National Book awards in the US – represents with her past. Yes, she longed for it to be different. Whenever she finishes a project, all she wants to do is “repudiate” it. However, those who like to describe her as a postmodernist seem sometimes to forget that there is nothing she has done in her novels that the Victorians didn’t do – “and that includes graphic kookiness”.
In any case, she didn’t begin by writing a regular kind of narrative. “At first, I was going to rip things up again,” she says. “I thought the book would connect to 9/11, which I felt was the end of something, or at least an important event in a trajectory that had begun with the rise of America as a superpower at the end of world war two, and so there would be these leaps into the future, ie into our present. But all that was dead on arrival. It was so stale. There’s nothing inherently exciting about any narrative move: it’s only exciting if it works, and if it couldn’t be done any other way. Everything else is gimmickry.”
When these leaps in time received a thumbs down from her writing group, she knew she had to let them go. “I finally admitted to myself I was sick of all that so-called innovation, and that it would be a relief to get rid of it.” Only then, a new problem: “To my horror, I found it was much harder to write a book in which I had to sustain momentum. With fragmentation [her approach in Goon Squad] you avoid a lot of writing pitfalls, the number one of which is sustaining momentum.”
In her acknowledgments, Egan describes “circling” around Manhattan Beach’s setting over a period of years. There was a time when she wasn’t sure she could transform her research into a novel. That job seemed (she tells me this with the same modesty that has her insisting she was “over-rewarded” for Goon Squad) to be beyond her capabilities. “But I’ve learned there is a feeling I have about things that are going to end up in my fiction, a kind of excitement. I have this dream again and again: I find extra rooms in the place where I live. You could say it’s a very New York dream, but I think it’s about writing – the feeling that there is something behind a wall or a door. When I went on my first tour of the Brooklyn Navy Yard, I had the sense that I was pushing through a wall. I was in a hidden city.”
Egan found her way to the source of her inspiration through old photographs. When she first moved to New York – she lives in Brooklyn with her husband, a theatre director, and two teenage sons – people had learned to look away from the water. But in these images, the city poured outwards towards its piers, its lifeblood. Having toured the navy yard with its archivist, and having learned of the daily miracles of engineering that were performed there – “such incredible feats, including two ships that were half destroyed being soldered together” – she fell in with a bunch of veteran army divers. “I attended one of their reunions in 2009, and they dressed me in the Mark V diving suit [the kind with a heavy, spherical metal helmet], all 200 pounds of it. Most of them had been in Korea or Vietnam, but there was one second world war veteran there. He had worked as a diver in Cherbourg, clearing out the harbour after the Germans blew everything up when they fled.”
In France, this man had come across a female Russian diver – a figure, almost mythological, who enthralled Egan. In the fullness of time, she would import the woman into her novel in the form of the heroine, Anna Kerrigan, the spirited daughter of a dancer from the Ziegfeld Follies. Not content merely with soldering and riveting – the war enabled women to take well-paid jobs previously done only by men – Anna would join that most dangerous and exclusive of navy occupations, becoming a diver. Did any women really dive for the US navy? “I don’t know that they didn’t,” says Egan. “But given that the navy would not even let African American men dive, it doesn’t seem likely.”
I just turned 55, and feel: wow! I’m lucky, in that I have always been able to make a living
Egan’s career as a writer – she first decided she wanted to be one in the 1980s, as a lonely backpacker in Europe – has an unusual shape. Her early novels were critically acclaimed and sold well; The Keep, her take on the gothic, was a bestseller. But starting out – she was first published in 1995 – she was somehow never pegged as “a hot, young writer”. This used to trouble her. Now, though, she’s grateful for it. “There’s something wonderful about the feeling that things continue to improve. I had a steady build and then [after the Pulitzer] a quantum leap. I just turned 55, and feel: wow! I’m also one of the lucky ones, in that I have always been able to make a living from it.” She combines fiction with long-form journalism (for the New York Times Magazine), and she doesn’t know where she would be, creatively, without it. “Fiction is my deepest love, but I love journalism, too. It keeps me thinking vigorously, and it reminds me that there is a world out there. It has taught me how to distil enormous quantities of information, and I wouldn’t have been able to write Manhattan Beach without that because I have never scuba dived. Actually, I’ve barely been on a ship.”
Acting on a hunch, I ask if she was relieved to have finished Manhattan Beach before the election of Trump. “Oh my God, you said it. Friends who are working on books set in contemporary times are trying to figure out how to account for him; he has a way of sucking all the air out of the room. After the inauguration, I found it almost impossible to work for a couple of weeks. All the existential problems that can crowd in on writers – questions like: what’s the point? – seemed very crushing at that moment.” The president is, however, having an effect on her reading. “I’m reading Trollope now,” she says, almost confidingly. “He’s little read here, but he makes for a great juxtaposition with Trump because he is all about power and money. Every character is introduced along with their annual income: people literally have a price tag on their head.” Thanks to this, Trump may yet turn out to be a cog in the engine of her next novel – which Egan, the so-called postmodernist, is thinking about setting in the 19th century. That surely must tell us something about where we are right now.
• Manhattan Beach by Jennifer Egan will be published in the UK on 3 October (Little, Brown £16.99). To order a copy for £14.44 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

If ever there was an English national literary treasure, he must be Edward Lear. In polls, including a recent one for National Poetry Day, The Owl and the Pussycat is often voted our favourite poem. Anyone who has ever doodled a limerick, of any tone or topic, pays homage to his genius. As well as timeless nonsense such as The Jumblies, there’s also his art – brilliantly studied paintings of exotic creatures in far-off lands; luminous desertscapes; antic sketches of men with birds in their beards – work that puts him in a class of his own as an important Victorian artist.
Edward Lear is one of those English one-offs who are treasured because they seem to suggest that there are no more important things to do than paint or write, and who embody a benign, provisional and above all amateur spirit. Lear himself, slyly complicit, summarised his place in the English cultural landscape with a teasing, encrypted self-description:
How pleasant to know Mr Lear! Who has written such volumes of stuff! Some think him ill-tempered and queer, But a few think him pleasant enough.
He was born in London in 1812, the same year as Charles Dickens, one of at least 17, or was it 19 (his mother lost count; there were infant deaths)? Young Edward was both swept up in, and set apart from, this brood. With good reason, he always felt different. By the age of five, he was not only a boy among many sisters, but also diagnosed as epileptic, a lifelong terror he shared with Lewis Carroll. Epilepsy would be one of the secrets that made him solitary, while his atrocious eyesight “formed everything into a horror”. Lear’s nonconformist parents hardly compensated for these childhood traumas: both were largely absent. His City broker father was remote; his “shadowy” mother rejected him.
Jenny Uglow declares at the outset that she wants to “follow his life straightforwardly”. In this, she’s echoing the discreet and magisterial example of Vivien Noakes who pioneered this elusive subject in 1968 in Edward Lear: The Life of a Wanderer. But Uglow goes much further than Noakes. This, quite rightly, is the half-life of a gay man in a society that had neither language nor tolerance for homosexuality. By chapter two, on top of all his other troubles, young Edward is grappling with some mysterious abuse, “the greatest evil done to me in my life”. What, exactly, this was remains unclear, though Lear recorded the date of the “greatest evil” every year in his diary. Uglow, whose focus on Lear and his confused sexuality is unflinching, is too good a biographer to indulge in reckless speculation here. Clearly, for “pleasant” Mr Lear, nothing would ever again be “straightforward”, especially once he and his beloved sister Ann began to escape into a parallel universe of exquisite botanical drawing. Nonsense verse soon followed. From boyhood, Lear was “three parts crazy”, but “wholly affectionate.” He would only get more like himself.
There were few intrusions on his adolescent solitude, apart from birds, especially parrots, his favourites. Some early zoological work inspired his vocation as an artist. Eventually, he would rival Audubon. Parrots also brought him a patron, Edward Smith-Stanley, 13th Earl of Derby, whose teeming family exposed Lear to a new audience for his gifts as an entertainer. As an artist, Lear was supposed to remain below stairs with the servants, but Stanley liked to have his protege upstairs to amuse his guests. Where Carroll had Alice and the Liddell family, Lear had the Knowsley nursery, where the Stanley children, their friends and nursemaids, kept riotous company. Unlike Carroll, he did not sentimentalise little girls, betraying no hint of the paedophile. Rather, Lear loved the mayhem of childhood to which nonsense was the only answer. Nonsense was infantile, rude, eccentric and grumpy, as children are. Nonsense could celebrate surreal violence and ghoulish accidents. As a roving landscape painter, Lear could be exquisite. Through his crazy wordplay, he could express his inner torment as a homosexual single man in Victorian England.
Windsor did do something for Lear, which was give an awkward, gay man renewed self-confidence
Abroad, in Rome or Corfu, he could be “as happy as a hedgehog” and was free to fall in love with other artists. At home, he had to present himself, half ironically, as a man in need of a wife: “I anticipate the chance of a Mrs Lear”, he wrote, “in 40 years hence.”
Unlike some gay Victorians, who went native overseas, it was Lear’s respectable hope that he was “always an Englishman” abroad. “Mr Lear” was certainly a weird bird. As he grew older, this myopic court jester, and nomadic artist, unable to reconcile his sexual with his social self, morphed into his mature, eccentric persona.
This was the closet homosexual who, in the summer of 1846, came to teach drawing to Queen Victoria. “How did you get all these beautiful things?” he exclaimed, on first seeing the famous royal collection. “I inherited them, Mr Lear,” replied the Queen.
It’s at this point that Jenny Uglow diverges most completely from the narrative line hewn by Vivien Noakes. Uglow’s interest in Lear’s court life is distinctly finite. And yet Windsor did do something for Lear, which was give an awkward, gay man renewed self-confidence. Thus, 1846 also saw the publication of A Book of Nonsense (now an exceedingly rare book). Uglow is good on Lear’s nonsense, attributing just the right amount of consequence to its surreal caprice:
There was an Old Person of Rhodes, Who strongly objected to toads; He paid several cousins, To catch them by dozens, That futile Old Person of Rhodes.
On his travels again – now to the Holy Land – Lear fell in love with a younger man, Frank Lushington, who would eventually compound Lear’s inner torment. For a while, the senior partner found temporary solace among the pre-Raphaelite brotherhood to whom he looked up as a child among grown-ups, addressing Holman Hunt as “dear Daddy”.
Now in his 40s, Lear had become a considerable figure in the mid-Victorian arts world, making friends with Tennyson and especially his wife, Emily, to whom he confessed feeling “jarry and out of tune”.
Uglow shows that the life of the Victorian gay man, even in progressive circles, was excruciating. The sexual appetite, wrote one, was “a beast to be suppressed, trampled by the help of surgeons and their cautery of sexual organs”.
Only abroad could Lear and Lushington enjoy a semblance of marriage – as Uglow puts it – “without the sex”. But then, how “queer” was Mr Lear? When he and his manservant Giorgio visited Mount Athos, Lear fled screaming from the Holy Mountain and its “mournful, minced fish and marmalade masticating Monx [sic]”.
In middle age, Lear’s wordplay had become quasi-Joycean, writes Uglow, “alive, protean, ever evolving, and finding new endings, like new limbs”. This is the Lear beloved of Auden and Eliot. He was, says Uglow, “an eerie, queery, sometimes weary, sometimes cheery Edward Lear”.
When “cheery”, he enjoyed moments that were “splendidophoropherostiphongious”, but there was always a terrible sadness, too, that only nonsense could assuage.
In 1861, Lear published a new Book of Nonsense, a huge success that would establish him as a classic. Four years later, Lewis Carroll published Alice in Wonderland, a very different kettle of fish, steeped in logic and literary allusion. These two Victorian giants never met, and Lear read Alice “without comment”.
Lear’s world, unlike Dodgson’s Oxford idyll, was provisional, nomadic and fraught. Lushington got married and Lear tortured himself with matrimonial fantasies. He would be “forever roaming with a hungry heart”.
Finally, the gaiety and sadness of Lear’s life expressed itself in his four greatest poems: The Owl and the Pussycat, The Dong With a Luminous Nose, Some Incidents in the Life of My Uncle Arly and The Jumblies, warbling their “moony song”. He might recognise that he had gone “to sea in a sieve”, but he admonished his diary that “the morbids are not allowed”. This extraordinary Englishman died in self-imposed isolation in San Remo aged 75. Jenny Uglow has written a great life about an artist with half a life, a biography that might break your heart.
• Mr Lear: A Life of Art and Nonsense by Jenny Uglow is published by Faber (£25). To order a copy for £21.25 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

Irma (Geraldine Chaplin), aged 342, wants to visit Earth, is willing to pay a small fortune, and hires two cruise-ship operators to take her there. Only problem: Earth was destroyed years ago. But that’s not going to stop unscrupulous Andrews (Benedict Wong) and conflicted Norton (Jack Reynor) from taking her “there”. A most moving meditation on love and memory, perhaps suggesting that the heart is where home is. Ali Catterall
The demanding DIY fairytale continues for former Scrapheap Challenge bodger Dick Strawbridge and his wife Angel, who swapped Southend for the Pays de la Loire and a five-storey 19th-century fixer-upper. Having now renovated almost half of their 45 rooms, Dick is desperate to revive the chateau’s derelict walled garden. But an attic-rattling winter storm forces the couple to reassess the state of their rickety roof. Graeme Virtue
As part of the Treasures Decoded series, we discover vital clues as to how the materials for the Great Pyramid at Giza were transported, thanks to a recently unearthed 4,500-year-old diary. Could it be that a system of specially constructed ships and hidden waterways provides the answer? With man-made canals diverted from the Nile to carry the huge stones? Vivid graphics beautifully bring to life the dry and dusty subject matter. David Stubbs
Benedict Cumberbatch is the children’s author hollowed by the loss of his daughter, in a classily staged version of Ian McEwan’s 1987 novel. Cumberbatch is in virtually every scene and can carry that weight, but debate will be had about whether the simplifying of the novel’s various themes – distilling them into the notion that love and memory transcend time – produces a more elegant study of grief, or just makes all the subplots and elements confusing and cursory. Jack Seale
Listen to Britain was a 20-minute propaganda film made by Humphrey Jennings and Stewart McAllister in 1942. From an unpromising premise, the directors crafted a poetic and profound statement about British – and indeed human – life. Tonight, the film gets another screening but the BBC and the BFI have also commissioned 12 new films loosely inspired by the original but rooted in the present. Expect fiery polemics, gentle musings and everything in between. Phil Harrison
This in-depth, disturbing episode of Vice’s Emmy-winning doc series focuses on law enforcement officers working to end child exploitation. From forensic data analysis to AI, the fight against paedophiles is increasingly hi-tech, reflecting the surge in internet access – and instances of online child sex abuse – in the developing world. Plus, a rounded report on the declining coal industry in the US region of Appalachia. Hannah J Davies
Second visit to five couples as they attempt a transformation from amateur shoe-shufflers to beatified ballroomistas. This week’s cha-cha-challenge gives the couples a fortnight to prepare for Stockport’s glitziest ballroom bonanza. With no Strictly-esque training camps available, practice sessions for each couple must fit around their busy lives, with Paul and Vanessa even having to prepare via Skype. With so much to juggle, who will prevail? Mark Gibbings-Jones
The Grand Budapest Hotel, (Wes Anderson, 2014), Sunday, 11.05pm, Channel 4
What a brilliantly inventive delight this is. Wes Anderson’s lovely, loopy comedy is set in the eponymous hotel, in the fictional, mittel-European town of Zubrowka, where renowned concierge Monsieur Gustave (a superb Ralph Fiennes) and orphan bellboy Zero (Tony Revolori) become embroiled in a struggle for a priceless painting. The script is hilarious, the characters colourful, the action zany and, best of all, the fantastical hotel is a triumph of gorgeously eccentric art design. Paul Howlett
Death on the Nile, (John Guillermin, 1978), 12.25pm, ITV3A big-screen Agatha Christie from an earlier era. Peter Ustinov is impressively weighty as the great Belgian detective, faced with a luxury cruise-liner full of suspects after the killing of spoilt heiress Lois Chiles. Among the illustrious passengers are Bette Davis, Angela Lansbury, Maggie Smith, Mia Farrow and Jon Finch. Paul Howlett
Falling Down, (Joel Schumacher, 1993), 9pm, ITV4Abandoning his car in a traffic jam, sacked white-collar worker Michael Douglas embarks on a picaresque journey across a witheringly hot and vicious LA. He takes up arms, in the American way, against his troubles, the excellent Douglas seething with frustration at the unfairness of life. Barbara Hershey is his ex-wife, Robert Duvall the edge-of-retirement cop with one last job to do. Funny, sad and wise. Paul Howlett
Boyz n the Hood, (John Singleton, 1991), 11.15pm, BBC2This landmark drama about a young black lad’s struggle on the streets of LA, where crack, bad cops and gang warfare are rife, is now seen as a key work in the Black Lives Matter era. Young Tre Styles (Cuba Gooding Jr) avoids violence, until his friends are shot up. Singleton’s deeply compassionate tale pulses with authenticity. Paul Howlett
ODI Cricket: England v West Indies The third game of the series, from the County Ground, Bristol. 10.30am, Sky Sports Cricket
Premiership Rugby: Exeter Chiefs v Wasps Action from Sandy Park. 2.30pm, BT Sport 1
Premier League Football: Brighton & Hove Albion v Newcastle United Struggling Brighton meet unexpectedly high-flying Toon. 3.30pm, Sky Sports Premier League
!!!@@@$$$

I was a fledgling photographer, just starting out in London in 1967. The Observer called and asked me if I’d like to shoot the Queen. The thought of it really scared the pants off me, so I said: “I don’t think I can.” I’m not going to tell you what my wife said to me when I told her.
So I had second thoughts and I phoned them back. They said: “We want to show people that the Queen is a real living person, that she can do everyday things.”
We went to Balmoral and were shown into a living room that was so big you could park an aeroplane in there. The Queen came in and she was very sweet. At that point there were just three of us: the Queen, myself and my assistant. The dogs were there, four or five of those, but no other people, no guards, nothing.
They said, 'We want to show people that the Queen is a real living person'
“Where do you normally sit when you’re here?” I asked. And the next thing I knew, she was on the floor, in front of the fire. I thought, I don’t believe this.
Her skin was almost perfect. It’s white without a flaw in it. It was like crushed pearl shells. I took 200 pictures of her by the fireplace. When she started to stand up I went over to help. She smiled and said: “I’m not that old yet.”
I asked if we could take some pictures outside. She said: “I’m going to go upstairs and change my clothes and you just wait by the door.” All of a sudden, I saw her going up the stairs two at a time. I had my camera around my neck and I got a few snaps of her that are slightly blurred, but you can tell it’s her.
She reappeared in a kilt and we went outside. Suddenly she whistled and about 20 Highland ponies came running. That was amazing.
I was told I would be lucky if I had about six minutes, and I’d already used 20 at this point, so I took the photographs of her and I didn’t push it any further. We said our goodbyes in the giant entrance of Balmoral. I was very polite. I was taken with her as a genuine human being. You wanted to give her a hug, as if she were your aunt who you hadn’t seen for 20 years.
I was the first American ever to shoot her. At the time, there were not many people like her. People you just did not come by easily. There was the Pope, General Franco…
After that shoot I would never be frightened again because I burned out my nervous system that day. I’ve shot five prime ministers since then and I’ve been in 10 Downing Street several times – no problem.
WeTransfer Studios and The Full Service present interviews with prolific music photographers curated by Rankin. All three premiere on 26 September on WeTransfer wetransfer.com/thisworks/2017/09/26/the-backstage-sessions/
!!!@@@$$$

Stevie Wonder has shown his solidarity with sports stars who were criticised by US president Donald Trump for kneeling on the field during the national anthem.
Trump prompted outrage among NFL and NBA players when he said on Friday that players who have knelt, sat or raised fists to protest police brutality against black people, were “sons of bitches” and should be made to stand for the Star Spangled Banner or be fired.
Players responded to the insult with rage, labelling the president a “bum” and an “asshole”.
NFL commissioner Roger Goodell was also critical, saying in a statement: “Divisive comments like [Trump’s] demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL.”
The situation further deteriorated when Stephen Curry, star player of the Golden State Warriors, said he voted “no” to the NBA champions visiting the White House in February and Trump promptly rescinded the invite.
The president tweeted: “Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team, Stephen Curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!”
In their own statement, the Warriors accepted they would not be going to the White House. But they said they would use their trip to Washington to “celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion”.
Cleveland Cavaliers star forward LeBron James released a video on Saturday saying Trump had tried to divide the country. “He’s now using sports as the platform to try to divide us,” James said. “We all know how much sports brings us together ... It’s not something I can be quiet about.”
The controversy moved outside the sports industry on Saturday night when Stevie Wonder, performing at the Global Citizens Festival in New York’s Central Park, said he was “taking a knee for America” to cheers from the crowd.
With the help of his son Kwame Morris he knelt down on stage before saying a prayer for “our planet, our future, our leaders of our world”.
WATCH: Stevie Wonder takes a knee on the stage "for America" at #GCFest https://t.co/lXIMO8fvcT https://t.co/qE97FFQmMH
Back on the sports field, the trend spread to baseball, with Oakland’s catcher Bruce Maxwell becoming the first major league baseball player to take a knee during the anthem.
VIDEO: Oakland A's catcher Bruce Maxwell becomes first Major League Baseball player to take a knee during anthem pic.twitter.com/YBprRuY4ny
!!!@@@$$$

Kiefer Sutherland is about to enter the Oval Office for a new term of office and it is daunting. As the lead in the American political thriller series Designated Survivor, the Hollywood star knows that, now more than ever, when you play the president of the United States you are handling a fundamental national myth.
“You have to grow up in America to really understand this belief that anyone can be president,” Sutherland told the Observer. “There is a very strong idea that everybody has the potential to be great. And that clearly has both good and bad sides.”
The Emmy award-winning actor, famous for films such as The Lost Boys and Flatliners, became a household name as Jack Bauer in 24, the landmark television thriller of the early 2000s. In his latest series, made by Netflix, Sutherland plays a low-level cabinet member who is thrust into leadership after a major terrorist attack wipes out fellow members of the US government.
It is a dark premise, said the actor and co-producer, which goes to the heart of a powerful American faith in their system. From George Washington’s fabled inability to tell a lie, through to Mr Smith Goes to Washington, the much-loved 1939 Frank Capra film in which James Stewart challenges corruption on Capitol Hill, respect for democracy has been built on a shared belief that the little man can win in the end.
“It is a story that fits into the American narrative,” said Sutherland. “Being president is seen as the greatest accomplishment. From a very early age this is true, so when children are asked what they want to be when they grow up they say president of the United States. It really is what people fantasise about, although ultimately the reality of it is not the way it seems. The problem is that those qualities that make you more capable of understanding the job are the ones that would stop you wanting to do it.”
People do find it reassuring that in our show almost everything is approached with a level of common sense.
Just as the first series of 24 in 2001 seemed to predict the terror threat to come, so Sutherland’s current portrayal of a president struggling to understand the demands of high office has found topical echoes in the era of Donald Trump.
“We are not looking to what is happening in real life but sometimes it comes close,” he said. “In the same way, when 9/11 happened we were already six months into filming 24, but we made no deliberate allusions to it. And again now, we are not mirroring what is going on – that is not our show. We are not looking directly at Trump, although of course the idea that someone can come into office and start making very different decisions is a very ‘Americana’ thing.”
In the show, Sutherland’s President Tom Kirkman repeatedly has to choose between trusting his own instincts or the advice of his experienced aides.
“We are trying to tell the story of a man who is there by virtue of extreme circumstances and is making a sacrifice in order to do the right thing. What we would really like to get into, now we are in the second season, is a place where, in the end, you have to have huge respect for the job,” said Sutherland.
Kirkman’s wife, an immigration lawyer and an uncertain first lady, is played by British star Natascha McElhone. “Natascha is back in the new series and she is fantastic,” he said. “It is a world that can tear a family apart and we are dealing with the effect of this job. With other shows I love, like The Wire or The Sopranos, we know you can go quite dark. Don’t ever underestimate what an audience has the ability to digest. People can relate to the honesty. And then, of course, there is also the opportunity to do something that is inspiring with it.”
In troubled political times there can be some comfort, Sutherland suggested, in watching politics play out safely on the small screen. “On television we have control over the outcome, of course, so it can actually look more functional than real-world politics. People do find it reassuring that in our show almost everything is approached with a level of common sense. It may not end up winning the day, but it is clear what the right choice is.”
Sutherland, 50, will also be seen next week alongside British star James Norton in the remake of Flatliners. This time he has the cameo role of a professor, assumed to be an older version of the character he played in the original, opposite Kevin Baconcorrect and Julia Robertscorrect. He is touring Canada with his country music band while making the television show, which goes out on Netflix after an initial broadcast on ABC. And although the part of a US president might seem far from his real life as a travelling musician and former Hollywood wild child, political leadership runs in his blood. His mother, the actress Shirley Douglas, was the daughter of Tommy Douglas, the former premier of the Canadian province of Saskatchewan, who is often credited for bringing universal healthcare to Canada.
The Daddy A comforting Martin Sheen as President Jed Bartlet in The West Wing (1999-2006).
The Figurehead An imposing Geena Davis as President Mackenzie Allen in ABC’s series Commander in Chief (2005).
The Gamechanger Dennis Haysbert as President David Palmer in 24, possibly paving the way for Barack Obama (2001-2006).
The Snake Kevin Spacey as the slippery President Frank Underwood in Netflix’s House of Cards (2013-present).
The Fallen Eve Robin Wright as Flotus eventually turned Potus Claire Underwood in House of Cards (2013-present).
The Incompetent Julia Louis-Dreyfus as hapless Vice-President Selina Meyer in Armando Iannucci’s sitcom Veep (2012- present).
!!!@@@$$$

Life is hard if you’re a pedant. When Kim Jong-un taunted Donald Trump by pronouncing that “a frightened dog barks louder”, I paused for longer than one might in the face of an approaching apocalypse to wonder whether it shouldn’t be “barks more loudly”.
But that didn’t sound quite right. Then again, a verb needs an adverb, right? And on and on, while everyone else Googled “intercontinental ballistic missile medium range how far”. With “dotard”, however, I was on surer ground, having had my nose in a book since God was a lad. I knew it wasn’t some new variation on those revolting insults that people fling about on the internet – libtard, cucktard, etc – but rather a word that goes right back to Chaucer and Shakespeare and means, essentially, batty old man.
This is one of the problems with Kim Jong-un: even terrifyingly dangerous and brutal dictators are occasionally on the money.
Why are so many of these insults centred on male potency? Why do they tacitly equate power with masculinity and youth?
Meanwhile, it was lucky that everyone had dotard to think about, because it was a brief diversion from trying to work out what a Centrist Dad is. This is one of those Twitter neologisms – in this case a Twinsult, if you will – that suddenly crops up and makes you feel out of the current affairs loop. Roughly speaking, it appears to describe the kind of man whose politically moderate views make everyone dislike him and who – this is the dad thing – is also keen to assert the responsible, nurturing, forward-looking part of their identity.
Centrist Dad is not the “absolute boy” – Jeremy Corbyn himself – and although he might be an “absolute melt” (weedy), I don’t think he’s quite as disdained as an “absolute slug” (baddie). But I may have that all arse about face.
It is impossible to keep up. “Cuck” took me forever to work out, even though I sort of knew what it meant and assumed it was related to the word “cuckold”. Why are so many of these insults centred on male potency? Why do they tacitly equate power with masculinity and youth? Why do I feel like it’s 1994 and I’m reading an issue of Loaded? Don’t answer, these are entirely rhetorical questions.
It's easy to find an insult clever when you agree with it, for example, when Boris Johnson was dubbed Schrödinger’s Twat
Hurling insults around is nothing new, of course. When Denis Healey described being attacked by Geoffrey Howe as “like being savaged by a dead sheep”, even the ovine imagery wasn’t a first; Winston Churchill had already described Clement Attlee as “a sheep in sheep’s clothing”.
Perhaps they simply did it better in the olden days. Trump, after all, is a useless insulter, leaving exclamation marks and capital letters to do far too much of the heavy lifting. “Madman”, “loser terrorist”, “sad” – who is left reeling by that? Is there a more underpowered jibe than “Crooked Hillary”?
It is, of course, easy to find an insult clever when you agree with its sentiment; when Russell Brand called Nigel Farage “a pound shop Enoch Powell”, for example, or when Boris Johnson was dubbed, on last week’s Remainiacs podcast “Schrödinger’s Twat”.
Naturally, we all abhor ad hominem attacks, gratuitous offensiveness, outright abuse. Some of us also feel that anger is not an excuse for standards and grammar to slip. But we can cope with a bit of to and fro, surely? It’s not as if we’re all melts.
!!!@@@$$$

Is it time to stop boorishly calling out the supposed liberal hypocritical elite (what one might term the hypocrati)? Benedict Cumberbatch has spoken about when he was playing Hamlet in 2015 and made an on-stage appeal on behalf of Syrian refugees, passing around a collection bucket and decrying the Tory government (which had agreed to accept only 20,000 Syrian refugees in five years), shouting: “Fuck the politicians!”
Cumberbatch now says he doesn’t regret speaking up, though he “got overexcited and said things in a rather grand manner some nights”.
He also said that he was aware of censure for not giving a refugee a home himself, thought about doing it, but he and his wife had a young son to look after, and…
Let’s stop Cumberbatch there. Why should he have to justify himself?
I’ve had issues with Cumberbatch in the past, not least when he farcically whinged about other people complaining (quite rightly) that there was far too much posh-dominance in British acting. Nothing to be alarmed about – just a bit of friendly, arts-based class war.
However, this time, I felt sympathy for him. This trend for demanding that famous people do life-changing things such as house refugees to prove they “mean it, man!” is ridiculous. Why does it follow that if someone such as Cumberbatch criticises a government policy he is then instantly morally obliged to take a refugee into his home? The rationale is seemingly that then (and only then, mind!) could they be judged to be sincere in what they had said.
It has become embedded in the culture – famous people who speak out made to jump through every hoop going in order to “prove” their sincerity, when plenty of people wouldn’t dream of taking in a refugee, even if they had the room or if they didn’t have a young child. And not because they don’t care about the plight of refugees, but because, for different reasons, most simply aren’t willing or able to offer one a home. Instead, people offer what they can – giving money, signing petitions, pressuring the government or, as in Cumberbatch’s case, standing on a stage with a collection bucket, getting “overexcited”.
There’s a feeling that celebrities should put their actions where their agonised, mewling gobs are
Understandably, people sometimes become a bit cynical and weary when they see yet another celebrity “bleeding heart” veritably bursting an aorta over some worthy cause. Some feel, with a certain justification, that too often it’s all about display without consequences (“Look how wonderful and caring I am!”). There’s a feeling that celebrities should put their actions where their agonised, mewling gobs are. On the other hand, isn’t this sometimes rather ungenerous, not to mention nonsensical? When major celebrities such as Cumberbatch speak up, they generate national and international headlines, raising awareness in a manner that few others could manage. Is it truly more important that he makes up a bed in the spare room?
Obviously, a famous person homing a refugee would be very valuable in terms of publicity and visibility. It also goes without saying that anyone who opens a home to a refugee is amazing. However, it’s also a major decision and even celebrities have real lives and families going on. The point is that, if someone such as Cumberbatch decides that they can’t do it, they’re no more “hypocritical” than anyone else who worries about refugees, donates money, signs petitions, raises awareness, but doesn’t feel able to actually house someone.
It isn’t hypocrisy to draw a line about what you can and can’t do. Nor should the famous be under any pressure to make grand gestures to prove that they care. All this does is perhaps make them question whether it’s worth the inevitable bashing they receive when they get involved. While celebrities are by no means beyond reproach, ultimately this becomes yet another way of shutting high-profile caring people down. Anyone want to applaud that?
!!!@@@$$$

When Burt Lancaster walks along the beach of the fictional village of Ferness in the hit film Local Hero, the outline of a dark island is visible across the sea behind him. The isle is Skye and the film, made by Bill Forsyth in 1983, remains one of Scotland’s cinematic triumphs.
Fittingly, this stretch of Skye coastline is to become home to a brave new adventure for the Scottish film industry. This week the film producer Chris Young, a former disciple of Forsyth, is launching a major film centre on the south of the Hebridean island that will emulate Robert Redford’s famous Sundance complex in Utah.
“The Sundance Institute’s feature film programme has really inspired us,” said Young this weekend. “At their base in Utah, with the backdrop of the Rocky Mountains, participants are encouraged to take creative risks and experiment.”
After years working on small-budget films and Gaelic-language television projects, Young’s fortunes changed overnight in 2011 with the success of The Inbetweeners Movie, based on the popular Channel 4 sitcom. Its huge box office success, taking the record for the biggest opening weekend for a comedy in British cinemas, made its producer a rich man.
“It was like winning the lottery,” Young told the Observer, “although few people had thought it would make money. Financial advisers were soon telling me to invest in property in London and I was on the point of doing so when I thought about my family back on Skye and realised there was a way to promote a homegrown Scottish film production centre as well as work near home.”
The Young Films studio already running inside Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, a higher-education college in Fas near the Sound of Sleat, is the base for making the successful Gaelic television series Bannan and production soon starts on a major feature film about the Lockerbie disaster. But now, in collaboration with the Glasgow and Edinburgh film festivals and the National Film and Television School, Young has created a residential training scheme to encourage new talent, as well as planning an annual forum for directors, writers and producers to watch movies and discuss the industry.
The new Young Film Foundation will initially offer six developing film-makers time to work on their projects under guidance and has won support from Creative Scotland. “The pilot will offer a unique opportunity for new Scottish-based writers, directors and producers to develop their projects with experienced industry practitioners across feature film, comedy and broadcast drama,” said the organisation’s Mark Thomas.
Young, who was born in Edinburgh and speaks Gaelic, has lived on Skye with his children and his artist wife, Julie Brook, for 20 years and most of his work has been based there since 2012.
“To me, it has always been an inspiring and creative place,” he said. “We couldn’t film Bannan without the support of our local community, so while conceiving this foundation it was important that it was very much tied to Sleat and Skye.”
Young also aims to boost the wider Scottish production scene, which shows clear signs of a renaissance. Last year the Scottish culture secretary Fiona Hyslop revealed that a record £52.7m had been spent filming in Scotland in 2015. This was a £7m increase on the previous year and marked the growing use of Scottish landscapes as backdrops for large-scale productions, such as the recent hit British-American television show Outlander. The new Avengers blockbuster from Marvel Studios, Avengers: Infinity War, is thought to be the largest single production Scotland has ever seen, while director David Mackenzie is currently shooting a big budget film about Robert the Bruce for Netflix, Outlaw King, starring Chris Pine, Aaron Taylor-Johnson and Florence Pugh.
What is more, a contentious proposal for a £250m studio near Edinburgh won approval from the Scottish government last April, and BBC Scotland has announced plans for a new Scottish channel.
In recognition of all this activity Scottish first minister Nicola Sturgeon announced last month that the National Film and Television School is to set up a hub in Scotland next year. It will be based at BBC Scotland’s studios in Pacific Quay in Glasgow and at Dumbarton Studios, just outside the city.
But Young believes Skye can be both the biggest lure and a complementary facility for film-makers in Scotland. He plays down recent claims that the island is overrun with visitors.
“This is a ridiculous claim really, because the island thrives on visitors and there are only a very few sites which get busy at certain times of year. I know people will want to come to Skye to make films and learn, and that is not just because of the new Torabhaig whisky distillery also opening nearby early next year,” he said.
“Just as the Rockies are a huge feature of Sundance, we believe our place in the Scottish Highlands and islands is key to attracting applicants and world-class mentors. Eventually, I hope we can make Skye as renowned as Sundance.”
Downloaded applications for the Young Film Foundation can be submitted in English or in Gaelic via the website from 23 October to 1 December.
!!!@@@$$$

Actor Julius Tennon is thrilled to be appearing alongside his Oscar-winning wife, Viola Davis, in the new season of her hit show How to Get Away with Murder. It is rare they work together on screen. Off screen, however, the power couple have a joint mission: to change the face of Hollywood by increasing diversity across the industry.
A study has shown that despite the huge success of recent films such as Fences, starring Davis and Denzel Washington, Moonlight and Hidden Figures, Hollywood remains as white and male-dominated as ever. Representation of race, gender, LGBT and disability has barely changed in the past 10 years, according to research by academics at the University of Southern California (USC).
“That study was important because it’s highlighting what the state of Hollywood really is,” said Tennon. “Obviously there are pipeline issues at the top with people of colour.” Some networks were doing a good job, he said, but “slow she goes. It’s a brick-by-brick situation.”
He continued: “When I go to meetings, it’s generally not African Americans that I’m talking to about getting something greenlit. Folks at the top are going to have to make decisions about trying to make systemic change. That’s the only way it’s going to happen.”
He and Davis, who married 14 years ago and have a seven-year-old daughter, Genesis, set up their multimedia company, JuVee Productions, in 2011 to try to tackle the problem from within. They wanted to create more suitable roles for Davis’s talent.
Tennon, 63, said: “We started it out for her career, for Viola to be more than this woman who turns a piece of baloney into a filet mignon. She was getting one or two scenes in a movie and some guest-star TV work, but after Antwone Fisher [a 2002 film starring and directed by Denzel Washington], there were a lot of eyes on her.”
They quickly decided to expand their goal to try to create opportunities for a diverse range of people on and off screen.
“While we had this elevation in the industry, we felt it was a chance to give opportunities to others, whether that be actors or below-the-line people,” Tennon said. “We consider ourselves the voice of the voiceless.”
No one says anything because why would you? To change is to risk losing money, changing your vision, being exposed
The USC study looked at the 100 top-grossing films at the US box office last year. It found that 5.8% of directors were black and 3.3% Asian. Just 4.2% of directors, 20.7% of producers, 13.2% of writers and 1.7% of composers were female, and only 31% of the speaking roles went to women. LGBT characters filled just 1.1% of all speaking parts and people with disabilities 2.7%. No black women appeared in 47 of the films and there were no black female directors.
“The reason diversity is still an issue is that everyone is not ‘put to task’,” said Davis. She said it was a much bigger issue than casting and stories, agreeing with Tennon that it was a “pipeline problem”. “If a writer, director, cinematographer, actor of colour is out there, they have the talent but haven’t had the opportunities. So, when the studios start putting together their movies, they go for who they know, who they’ve worked with … the hottest, buzziest, the one with the résumé … and most of them are white.”
She added: “No one says anything, because why would you? To change is to risk losing money, changing your vision, being exposed. It’s a problem that needs to be tackled from the studio heads who give the greenlight vote to film-makers who can simply envision a role differently, to producers who can give a budding, gifted cinematographer grip, writer of colour a chance, and finally to audiences to plop down money to see a film character differently. It requires being awoke.”
Tennon, who has appeared in more than 50 films and TV series, these days concentrates mostly on running JuVee and producing. The company takes on everything from virtual reality and digital content to television and film.
Their first film, Lila & Eve, with Davis and Jennifer Lopez, was released in 2015. Custody, featuring Davis, followed in 2016. Next spring they start shooting The Personal History of Rachel Dupree, the story of an African American woman struggling to farm the badlands in South Dakota in 1917. A biopic of Barbara Jordan, the first Southern black woman to be elected to the House of Representatives, is in the development stage. Both will star 52-year-old Davis. They are also working on the movie adaptation of Rachel Lloyd’s critically acclaimed book Girls Like Us, a true story about sex trafficking.
Tennon said Davis, who won an Oscar for Fences this year and was nominated in 2012 for The Help and 2009 for Doubt, “touches people across the globe”. He added: “We’re using the platform to push things forward.”
The first three seasons of How to Get Away with Murder are available on Netflix. “It’s exploded her star,” he said. “She’s sitting in all these different living rooms where a black woman wasn’t sitting, and it’s powerful. As a company, we feel like we have to make sure that the content going out is above and beyond. When we create narratives, we want them to be whole and full and rich, and non-stereotypical.
“We’re in a market now that’s accelerated by technology. Diversity is what we’re bringing to the digital space. We want content for everyone and content that people of colour will consume.”
Mentioning the global success of Moonlight, Hidden Figures and Fences, he said: “We’re in a space now where diversity is good business and people should see it like that.”
Organisations should be hiring people of colour in executive positions, he believes, and thinking how to “include these people to help shape things so they have a complete slate, that has a little bit of everything.
“Those organisations that are thinking that way, big and expansive, will be the winners,” he said.
Sir Lenny Henry, who has long campaigned on diversity issues in the British television industry, spoke out recently about the number of BBC staff from a BAME  (black, Asian and minority ethnic) background. The BBC said it was about 14%, but Henry claimed the number responsible for making programmes was closer to 1.5%.
The actor and comedian wrote in the Guardian: “There are undoubtedly more people of colour on our television screens, and more women in high-profile positions. But the fact is that, while things might look like they are getting better, if you scratch the surface there is still a long way to go. The gender pay gap still persists, and the people who make TV programmes are still far from diverse.
“I believe that if we want to change our industry we must look beyond what we see on our TV screens and fix the bigger problems lying beneath. When it comes to racial diversity that means looking at who commissions and makes the programmes.”
!!!@@@$$$

Next Saturday, 30 September, BBC Radio 1, 2, 3 and 4 will all be 50 years old. There will be celebrations. Let’s imagine what they could be like. Radio 1, with its cooler best friend 1Xtra, has been excited about its birthday for weeks and its party would take up the whole weekend, moving from cocktails at a celebrity do to raving on stage with a festival headliner, followed by seven hours’ clubbing madness and a fully Insta-ed comedown. Radio 2 has decided to have a few chums over for dinner and a chat about house prices, before pushing the chairs back for a kitchen disco. Radio 3 is attending an interesting panel discussion on ancient history, a classical concert and spending Sunday on its PhD. And Radio 4 has read all the broadsheets before 6am and is prodding you awake to tell you exactly what it thinks.
We know the personalities of these anonymously numbered radio stations as though they were our friends. We get annoyed when they behave out of character; they have been woven through our national story for half a century. But in a swipe-left-multi-format-binge-watch world, can these old pals continue as they are?
The four stations began as a reaction, a late response to a changing world. In the mid-1960s, pirate stations such as Radio Caroline and Radio London began to broadcast pop music 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and millions tuned in. The BBC’s existing radio stations – the World Service, Home Service, Light Programme, Music Programme and Third Programme – were either not designed to play pop or not so much of it and had no proper response to the pirates. So the BBC went to the government and, in 1967, the Marine, etc, Broadcasting (Offences) Act was passed, which effectively banned pirate radio stations. (Supposedly, prime minister Harold Wilson only agreed to this as part of a bargain: he wanted to establish the Open University and the BBC agreed, in return for scuppering the pirates.) The act came into effect on 14 August 1967, and six weeks later, on 30 September, the Home Service became Radio 4, the Third Programme became Radio 3, the Light and Music Programmes merged to become Radio 2, and Radio 1 was created. Not from thin air; the new pop station snaffled several Radio Caroline DJs and a few from the Big L (Radio London), including John Peel, whose late-night show, The Perfumed Garden, had been a surprise success. It even nicked the Wonderful Radio London jingle, just substituting the word one for London.
In truth, the BBC was forced to create Radio 1, and with that, Radio 2, 3 and 4, and its longest-standing DJ, Annie Nightingale (she started in 1970), recalls an underlying feeling that many people didn’t want the station to exist. “It was manned by technical people who came out of the RAF, who knew nothing about music,” she says. “A memo said: ‘We are never going to have this American-style radio here, with disc jockeys.’” And it was not an instant success, sharing airtime with Radio 2 in the afternoons and playing fewer songs than the pirates had done because of weird needle time laws that restricted the amount of recorded music that the BBC could broadcast in any 24-hour period.
But by the mid-70s, Radio 1 was the most popular radio station in the country, and continued in that spot until the 2000s, when Radio 2 took the top place. Today, Radio 2 is still the UK’s most popular station (it has more than 15 million listeners), with Radio 4 coming in second (around 11 million). And the family of four has expanded, with Asian Network starting in 1988, 5 Live (originally Radio 5, in 1990) established in 1994, and the digital stations 1Xtra, 4 Extra and 6 Music all beginning in 2002. None, despite various threats of closure, most notably Asian Network and 6 Music, look anything other than well established. They, too, are part of how our country sees itself.
Fifty years on, Radio 1 is still doing well; by far the most digitally savvy of the original BBC stations, it has established itself as a YouTube player, with a witty social media presence that drives up listenership. It is very much supported by 1Xtra, its urban sister, which has provided most of Radio 1’s UK stars. Radio 2 is a purring Rolls- Royce, expensive but worth it. It knows its audience inside out. Its specialist shows are excellent – blues, folk, jazz, country, on selected evenings at 7pm – and its weekend offering is a great blend of charismatic personalities (Graham Norton, Liza Tarbuck, Paul O’Grady) and music. But Radio 2’s weekday daytime DJs are still very white and very male (no women or BAME presenters between 6.30am and 8pm) with the impression given by management that this will not change until one of them actually drops dead on air. Radio 3 gets the least attention, except during the Proms, but as classical music’s popularity wanes among the young, that’s hardly a surprise. One wag described it as Radio Dignitas. It’s better when more experimental – as on Late Junction and Hear and Now – and The Essay is always worth a listen.
And Radio 4? Ah, Radio 4. We could be here for ever arguing about Radio 4. There is still a strong sense that the station represents the UK; or should do. It is the broadcaster to which – by law – we will turn in a national emergency. The station has high status, but this hampers development. There are many shows on Radio 4 that began before 1967: The Archers, Any Questions?, From Our Own Correspondent, Today, Book at Bedtime, Desert Island Discs, Woman’s Hour. They sit weightily in their slots, formats created decades ago, presenters glued to their headphones. Who would dare to change them? Not the commissioners, who are “aware” of concerns about the BBC’s representation of minorities but don’t seem to clock that they’re the ones who could make changes. Not the producers, who, even since the Brand-Ross-palavers, still have far less status than the presenters. Not the audiences, who hate change and age alongside the shows, but seem unable to outlive them. We will all be worm fodder long before anyone dares to cancel Just a Minute, let alone Today’s utterly redundant Thought for the Day.
There are programmes that demonstrate that modernisation is possible. PM, the late-afternoon news analysis show, started in 1970, but is right up to date, engaging its audience through social media and switching with aplomb between humour, humanity and hard journalism as needed.
The Today programme is not so nimble. The station’s flagship breakfast show has broadened its remit under new editor Sarah Sands, with outside broadcasts from London fashion week and Silicon Valley, and the very odd Puzzle of the Day. But this new approach exposes gaping holes in its presenters’ abilities. John Humphrys, in particular, seems baffled by much of what he is being asked to cover, and has an unforgivable tendency to adopt a sneering tone about arts and culture. His default setting is argument, when inquiry would be a better approach. Humphrys’ longstanding adversarial approach is inbuilt in Today, which leads to ridiculous situations, such as comedy writers being pitted against each other or, more seriously, climate change being given maybe-it-exists-maybe-it-doesn’t presentation (it exists). There is no need to interrogate people who might be better explaining what they do. There is a great need to take lying politicians to task.
Speaking to those who work with and for Radio 4, the station’s commissioning process is the source of much angst among independent operators. Most Radio 4 commissioners are now part-time so find it easier to keep commissions inhouse or hand them to larger operators. And the station – along with Radio 2 – has a too-white-too-male problem. Insiders describe situations when lists of potential BAME presenters have been provided, which commissioning editors ignore, while plumping for yet another straight white man. The station, still monitored by government, finds it hard to move into the modern world. Its comedy is going through a safe, Cambridge Footlights moment (again). Its documentaries are excellent, but suffer from over-explanation when they begin: they could learn from the “big reveal moment” podcasts offer. Radio 4 doesn’t seem able to get its head around podcasts. Its drama is light years behind that of its podcast rivals.
Perhaps the trickiest aspect to the station is the station itself. I’ve found that as soon as you sit down in a Radio 4 studio, you start talking like a Radio 4 person. Everyone within Radio 4 operates within its own distinct atmosphere. A solution is outside reporting. And outside presenters: the most charismatic on the station have a working life outside the BBC.
Today, the biggest rivals to the 1967 four – and to all the other BBC stations – are digital. Music streaming, podcasts, YouTube. Increasingly, those of us who would have switched on Radio 4 turn to podcasts. Fifty years ago, Radios 1, 2, 3 and 4 were forced into existence as a reaction to a changing world. The world is changing even faster now. Their reactions need to be quicker.
Miranda Sawyer is the Observer’s radio critic
!!!@@@$$$

I had a dream job, presenting classical music radio [for ABC Classic FM]. Easy. Don’t be late for work, sit in a studio, chat, press the right buttons, go to concerts, chat some more. And that’s what I did for nearly a decade. The job of a radio presenter, at least the way I see it, is to be calm, kind, entertaining. A friend to all. Being light and easy is fine if you feel like that, but if you don’t feel light and easy, what then?
My life might have seemed shiny and smiley from the outside, but inside my mind was being colonised by depression. It began so subtly. A slight feeling of being off with the world. Tiny frustrations at injustices. Then I slipped to a new level and the smallest annoyance became too much to deal with. I began to lose my concept of joy. Everything seemed to have a smear of putrescence, nothing was healthy, nothing was whole, nothing was simple and happy. I didn’t need the Taliban ban on laughing outside. I didn’t laugh anywhere.
Depression is leaden and wily; it seeps into every atom and it stops you sleeping, it makes you fat (or thin), it compromises your immune system, it ages every cell, it takes away your self-love, it takes away your sense of humour, it makes you hopeless. I think for me this last was the hardest. All my life, throughout a tough childhood of bullying and a violent home life, I had kept some hope that things would improve. Now, when my life seemed ideal and with no need to be improved, I couldn’t see any good, anywhere. I couldn’t see any happiness or success.
Depression seems to make you blind, but I also believe it gives you great insight. During this time, as I finally gave up on my ability to work and took sick leave, I started to go to a therapist. Adrienne was perfect. She said it was OK to be depressed. Away from my home life, where I felt guilty about being this way, I could go to Adrienne and speak freely. I could sink back into my depression and try to make friends with it, try to work out what it wanted. We talked about taking antidepressants (I didn’t) and how it was OK to use the depression as a way to deeper self-knowledge. But if there came a time when I simply couldn’t do anything, Adrienne would recommend taking the antidepressants.
I felt safe, somehow, in this blanket of melancholy. I knew my melancholy. I was friends with it finally, which was good as it isolated me from others. Who wants to hang out with a depressed person? I floated outside the world, detached. Eventually it was just melancholy and me, hanging out at home, drinking for two. I listened to ancient choral music. I occasionally rode my bicycle. That was it. I had reached a dead end.
I resigned from the radio. I took sick leave for a month and the ABC managers wrote to me, saying they didn’t want me back on air, so that was that. I applied for a job teaching in Scotland and didn’t get it. I turned around and around in my life, not seeing any way out, any way in. I felt physically in pain with the claustrophobia of my own brain.
And then, on the news I saw a bomb had gone off during the performance of a play at the French Cultural Centre in Kabul. The man who had refounded the music school in Kabul, Dr Sarmast, had been badly injured and at least five people were killed. Sarmast only survived because he had bent down to pick up his phone at the exact moment the bomb had gone off. It was a suicide bomber, a 16-year-old, at a play about suicide bombers. Did the Taliban see the irony? I wrote to Sarmast and said I wanted to apply for the position of cello teacher at the Afghanistan National Institute of Music.
Magical events would happen when people called me a boy. I would thrill at these little exchanges.
At last I had something to aim for. I practised and practised the cello and sent off my audition tape. I did interviews over Skype, with the foreign staff now dispersed around the world after being temporarily evacuated. I clung to the meagre hope that I might get this job. Moving to a war zone was better than living with what was in my head.
I had to wait. There is a total purity in sitting in a room, on your own, knowing that nobody would miss you for several days, if not weeks, if you died. Over Christmas that year I sank down, crashed through, into new levels of despair. I began to think up ways to top myself. A motorbike crash. Walking into the sea. Pills. Pills and alcohol. And perhaps the grimmest of all, locking myself in a room and simply not drinking water.
I write this now and see how sick I really was. My friends distilled into the special few. Friends of an older age, who whenever I saw them hugged me and held me in their wisdom for a few hours. And Richard. Sage, calm, in his 70s and still swimming every day in the ocean. I would go over to his house every week and he would lean at the stove carefully making coffee; we would meander through conversations, me never fully admitting how ill I was, he never openly acknowledging that he really knew. These friends were my safety. If they hadn’t been there … well, they were.
_
In my sessions with Adrienne, the therapist, we had talked about my childhood and my relationship with my mother. For so many years I had not truly seen what my mother had done for her children, but Adrienne allowed me to love her again. We also talked about moving on from radio and the importance of making music in my life. I had been so involved in being a radio presenter I had forgotten my roots; I needed to play the cello and the viola again. And finally, after several months, we came to the subject of my own gender identity.
From the age of maybe five, I had always been confounded by having a girl’s body. I managed to avoid it influencing me much up to around 10, when tiny breasts began to bud on my chest and Tim, my big brother, told me to put my T-shirt back on. From that instant I was locked into femaleness. At 11 I went to an all-girls school. I started my periods and grew hips and a contempt for myself that went so deep, in the end I forgot it was there.
Magical events would happen when people called me a boy. Sometimes this would be embarrassing, for instance when I was about to take off my clothes in a female changing room, but still I would thrill at these little exchanges. I kept my hair short, grew muscles to throw the discus, developed a deep voice and began a very, very long journey of androgyny.
At 14 I realised I was gay. I was at an athletics meeting, waiting for the discus event, and I caught myself staring at a girl hurdler and imagining kissing her. ‘Oh fuck. I’m fucking gay.’ I look forward to the day when young people will say to themselves, ‘Oh great – I’m gay! Woohoo! I can’t wait to tell my mum!’ Not in England in the early 80s. I managed to hide it for a while but other girls at school began to sense something was different and kept their distance. I had my first kiss at 16. With a girl. Gentle lips. Perfume. Slight fingers on my cheek.
I went to music college at 17 and felt somehow obliged to try sex with a man. Kissing a woman had been infinitely complex and tantalising. This was harsh, direct, unsubtle. I confirmed for myself that I was a lesbian and confessed to my mum. She ran from the room and didn’t talk to me for a day. The grim disappointment in her eyes slowly dissipated as I graduated from college, won a big scholarship and went to West Berlin to study. I then embarked on a serially monogamous love life. Seven years was consistently the time limit, straight from one deeply loved woman to the next. There was always a point where I couldn’t give any more of myself. And then I left. If I’d met myself in a bar, I would have felt sorry for me.
From college to my job in the Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra, that was how my 20s spun by. I drank and partied and ate and travelled myself away from any deeper self-knowledge, until I understood what needed to be done to escape the cycle of semi-pleasure/semi-misery.
I decided I needed to get out and about. In fact, to cycle from the UK to Hong Kong. It was on that trip that I had a profound realisation, one that would take 15 years to actually do anything about.
I sat in a five-star hotel room in Multan, Pakistan, finally cool after constant50C days of cycling. I ordered a burger and Coke, and checked what was on the TV. A film, something called Boys Don’t Cry. Hilary Swank. Sure, seemed good enough for an afternoon away from Pakistan. I pressed play, and soon my life would switch from semi-pleasure/semi-misery to just plain misery.
Boys Don’t Cry tells the story of Brandon Teena, a transgender female-to-male who was raped and murdered by two men in 1993. Brandon had grown up in a trailer park and had tried to join the US army and failed, because he refused to put down female as his gender. In his short life he never had treatment for gender reassignment but he presented completely as a man, as the man he knew he was.
My relationship had split up, my career, my home, everything had gone. But I saw that this was as it needed to be
I watched this film and I was totally sideswiped. I was so sure of my homosexuality because I had never seen or imagined anything different. Unless a human is extraordinarily individualistic, we tend to mould ourselves roughly around what we see in others. When I was growing up, a woman realising she was really a man simply didn’t exist within my view. Very occasionally I saw males transitioning to females, but they were nearly always the target of spite and ridicule. And there was never any subtlety of differentiation between transgender people, transvestites, homosexuals and drag queens. Quentin Crisp seemed to be enough to depict all the above. Since society, culture and the media in England were so conservative, I never had the opportunity to see beyond being a lesbian.
As far as I knew, there was nothing beyond that. I could go down the butch lesbian path so that’s what I did, from when I was 14. To now be presented with this story and this possibility tore me apart. Because I knew it was me. I fell around in a mist for the next few days. I had to tell someone, but I was alone. In Pakistan. I reached Lahore and decided I would write everything down in a letter to my sister, Liz. She wrote back (poste restante) and said simply that anything I needed to do, she would support me.
When I realised I was transgender, it was a life-destroying moment: I knew from then on that I would never be happy until I did something about it. But to do something about it meant possibly losing everything. It turned out that I lost everything because I didn’t do anything about it.
How do people have the bravery to go to a doctor, describe these feelings, have very confronting but beautifully liberating surgery, and take hormones that will completely change their sense of self? Even if everything goes well and works out, still, how does one even begin to do this?
I didn’t know, then. I put this knowledge away, very, very tidily, for 15 years. It sat next to my self-contempt, slowly merging together to build a great depression. Over the next few years transgender urges would erupt out of me, and I would spend days looking at trans sites on the internet. Then I would shove everything down again and tell myself it was not necessary to do this thing, that being a butch woman was fine and my girlfriend loves me now but she had told me very clearly she would leave me if I transitioned, and besides, who would employ you and what would Mum think and everybody will see you as a freak and … no. It just wasn’t going to happen. I would stay a woman.
_
There was no work I needed to do while I waited to hear about the Kabul job, so I decided to do what I do best – travel. I looked at my bank balance and a map. What did I need from this travel? I needed physical activity. I needed beauty. I needed somewhere new. I needed time to meditate and I needed quiet. Nepal. I had been looking for a long time at a place called Muktinath, at the top of the Annapurna circuit. Muktinath is a temple holy to both Hindus and Buddhists. It would be bloody freezing at this time of year but it was still possible to get there. I could go and see the temple where dakinis, or sky dancers, were said to inhabit the atmosphere. I could walk alongside my new mate the black dog and try to integrate this depression into myself. If I didn’t get the job in Kabul, I decided, I would kill myself. That was my plan.
As I walked in Nepal, the devastation of my life became unavoidable. I experienced the honesty of having no idea what would happen to me, all the while waiting to hear if I had got the job. I climbed beyond the tree line, wrenched my body into submission, lost 10 kilos and practised Vipassana meditation for two hours every day. As the air thinned, my acceptance of my wrecked life thickened.
And finally, at the temple in Muktinath, I was blessed by the Hindu priest there and received a state of grace. It was all OK. My relationship had split up, my career, my home, everything had gone. But finally, in a moment, I saw that this was as it needed to be. Something floated away from me in that moment. Horror, profound sadness, a corrupted sense of myself. Rumi tells us in one of his poems to travel inside ourselves if we cannot travel outside. The passages inside are ever-changing, like shafts of light. The light in my head changed from a monotone of dullness to a dappled, kind light.
_
On the very day I visited the temple in Muktinath, I finally heard that I had got the job in Kabul. This news saved my life. I walked back down the mountain, came back to Australia and slowly felt my depression melt into me. I had faced it, and we had learnt to live with each other. I also realised it would never go away, and I know now that that is a good thing, because it allows me to see things for what they really are.
What had not killed me had made me stronger. I was going to live in a semi-war zone, and finally I felt at peace.
• This is an edited extract from Danger Music by Eddie Ayres, published by Allen & Unwin, $32.99
• Crisis support services can be reached 24 hours a day: Lifeline 13 11 14; Suicide Call Back Service 1300 659 467; Kids Helpline 1800 55 1800; MensLine Australia1300 78 99 78. In the UK, the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is 1-800-273-8255. Hotlines in other countries can be found here
!!!@@@$$$

The soul singer Charles Bradley has died, it was announced on Saturday. He was 68.
Bradley received a diagnosis of stomach cancer last year. Earlier this month, announcing the cancellation of tour dates in the US, South America and Europe, he said that though he had beaten that illness, the cancer had spread to his liver.
“I love all of you out there that made my dreams come true,” he said in a statement then. “When I come back, I’ll come back strong, with God’s love. With God’s will, I’ll be back soon.”
On Saturday a statement posted to social media said: “It is with a heavy heart that we announce the passing of Charles Bradley. Thank you for your thoughts and prayers during this difficult time.”
Born in Gainesville, Florida in 1948, Bradley was raised in poverty in Brooklyn. He travelled widely, working jobs including being a cook in a psychiatric hospital in Maine, and was homeless for a time. Not long before he was discovered performing a James Brown tribute act under the name “Black Velvet”, his brother Joe was murdered.
“It took 62 years for somebody to find me,” he told NPR in 2011, “but I thank God. Some people never get found.”
In a 2016 interview with Rolling Stone, he said his first experience of a James Brown concert, at the Apollo Theater in New York City in 1962, was “breathtaking”.
“I didn’t know who James Brown really was but I wanted to go see,” he said. “When they called James Brown on stage, I’ll never forget they had this purple light and yellow light – my two favorite colors. And when they introduced him, he came flying on the stage on one leg and I said, ‘What in the hell is this?’
“And I was mesmerized. I was just gone. I was just shocked. Shocked. I said, ‘Wow. I wanna be something like that.’”
As well as comparisons to Brown, Bradley’s voice and full-bodied style attracted comparisons to Otis Redding. In 2014, he told the Guardian: “To stand on stage and sing is a blessing given by the grace of God.
“When I’m out there, I try to give everybody a little taste of my soul. I look out at people’s faces and I see traces in them that I see in myself: a lot of hurt and pain. I try to give them joy: that’s my main motivation.
“It’s not really about being on stage – it’s about reaching to people and giving them the truth about who I am.”
He released three albums on the Daptone label: No Time for Dreaming (2011), Victim of Love (2013) and Changes (2016). Hit songs included The World (Is Going Up in Flames) and Strictly for You and he performed at festivals including Primavera Sound, Coachella, Lollapalooza and Glastonbury.
Reviewing Victim of Love, Guardian music critic Alexis Petridis wrote: “It is perhaps a little romantic – not to mention voyeuristic – to suggest that the travails of Bradley’s life have somehow etched themselves on to his voice, but there’s no doubt that his singing is remarkably powerful. Its rawness touches a nerve.”
Among tributes paid on Saturday, the Afghan Whigs frontman Greg Dulli wrote: “Goodnight, Charles Bradley. You sang from beyond and gave the best hugs.” The Canadian jazz quartet Badbadnotgood said: “We shall forever remember the amazing shows we played together and the moments that the ‘Screaming Eagle of Soul’ through his power and spirit made us cry. Rest In Peace to a true hero CB.”
In 2012, the singer was the subject of a documentary, Charles Bradley: Soul of America. Earlier this year he received an Emmy nomination for a performance on CBS daytime TV.
!!!@@@$$$

Every age creates its signature way of telling and consuming stories. The Jacobeans had the blood and lust of popular tragedy. The Victorians had the great social novel. The 1960s had new journalism. The chosen form of our own age is the downloaded serial drama. While the energy and ambition of screenwriters was for nearly a century invested in two-hour feature films, for the past 10 years, ever since The Wire and The Sopranos and The West Wing showed what might be possible, it has been in the 10-hour arcs, and annual seasons of streamed drama.
Those shows – Scandi-noir, Game of Thrones (and its progeny), Breaking Bad and the rest – have created a new kind of relation between creators and viewers. The stories are made not only for total immersion, but also presuppose the potential for binge-watching. Since Netflix started uploading whole series, days and nights are lost to the “just one more episode” of unfolding dramas, in the way that we might once have been invited to lose ourselves in books.
The idea of bingeing on drama has some negative connotations, but the facts suggest that far from seeing this habit as time wasted, we tend to think of it as fulfilling in the way that time devoted to great fiction always was. In 2013, Netflix did a study into why 73% of viewers felt overwhelming feelings of comfort when immersed in these dramas. The company sent an anthropologist, Grant McCracken, into viewers’ homes to discover the reasons for this: “TV viewers are no longer zoning out as a way to forget about their day, they are tuning in, on their own schedule, to a different world. Getting immersed in multiple episodes or even multiple seasons of a show over a few weeks is a new kind of escapism that is especially welcome.” The usual attention deficit of the internet was replaced by something more complex and satisfying.
We can all sit around and decide we want to make a Louis XIV table, but eventually somebody has to do the carving
The huge demand for such shows and the intense rivalry between Netflix and Amazon, in particular, to create has led to a new kind of mythologised creative space: the writers’ room. The creative pressures of producing multiple series of 10-hour dramas in short order have changed the dynamic of traditional scriptwriting practice. Rather than pairs of writers, or single auteurs, the collective and the collaborative is not only prized but essential.
As favourite shows build their own addictive fanbases – more fragmented than the audience for broadcast TV ever was, but often more cultishly engaged – the writers’ room, the place where the drama begins and ends, has become the subject of intense curiosity and scrutiny. The room is largely an American creation, a development of the comedy bunkhouses that produce The Simpsons or Saturday Night Live. Inevitably there are websites and blogs and memes devoted to gossip about these sacred and profane spaces, places to get a fix of favourite dramas before the next series is uploaded. Some shows – Orange Is the New Black and The Good Wife pioneered the practice – provide the backstory to the genesis and creation scenes in live Twitter feeds, with whiteboards and interview links and photos.
What they mostly reveal is that having ideas – even in groups – and writing them up into scripts is no less painful and laborious than it ever was, but that it now has a kind of endless forward motion.
In his book Difficult Men, Brett Martin describes the rise of the21st-century phenomenon of the streamed drama series, noting that though all writers’ rooms have their own character, they share a few common features. Chief among them, the one “near-absolute” is that in the centre of the room “there will be a quantity and flow of food reminiscent of a cruise ship, as though writing were an athletic feat demanding a constant infusion of calories”.
Other than that energy supply, there are two essential elements: along one wall a whiteboard (“the signature tool of this golden age”) with a grid divided into 10 or 12 columns, one for each episode; and a harassed-looking writers’ assistant feverishly trying to capture every passing comment made by the writers in relation to those episodes and to type it into a laptop before it is lost.
At the centre of all of the chat and ideas is the showrunner, the person charged with getting the writers writing and the series made. This person is rarely relaxed. As David Chase, creator of The Sopranos observed: “Other people have good ideas. And they’re hard to come by. But in another sense, they’re a dime-a-dozen. Turning an idea into an episode – that’s the grunt work. Eventually, the showrunner’s the one who has to look at his watch and say: ‘How do we fill up 42 minutes?’ We can all sit around and decide we want to make a Louis XIV table, but eventually somebody has to do the carving.”
Different writers’ rooms have evolved different processes to try to keep that grunt work going into the fourth and fifth and sixth series. Here, three showrunners explain how they do it.
Eric Newman, producer of genre films such as Dawn of the Dead and Children of Men, spent years researching the rise and fall of Pablo Escobar and the Colombian cocaine trade, with a view to making a feature film of the story. Netflix approached him with the idea of a series, and he offered them the first 10 hours of Escobar’s story. The third series of Narcos, which shows the rise of the Cali Cartel after Escobar’s death, began on Netflix this month.
“This is something I have been living with for 20 years. From the beginning, I wanted this not to be about one trafficker, Escobar. I wanted it to be about a whole evolution of this business.
We have been talking about this series, the macro of it, for what seems like forever. In terms of the process we have what we call tent poles of events, things that happen, turning points that support the rest of the story. Some of them are spectacular, others more subtle – from the end of the cold war to the death of a cop. As writers, we have these events to hit. We take licence occasionally, but there is an obligation to the truth.
The writers’ room is where the research comes together. The nature of the job means above all we all have to know the story inside out. All the characters, where they wanted to go, and how close they got, and where they ended up. All drama arises in the gap between what a person wants and what they get. We always try to talk about the characters as the real people they were: ‘Where is this guy going? What does he want?’ All we will do for the first six to eight weeks in the writing room is just talk about the story. Nothing makes me happier than when one of the writers comes in and says: ‘Look, I found out this amazing thing about this guy last night – how can we use it?’
We are always learning new stuff as we go. One of my favourite things in series two was this guy named Limón. All we had was that there was this guy and he was shot and killed with Escobar. We thought: well, if that is where his story ends, where does it begin? And we came up with this really compelling story in the second episode of season two. We do that a lot. We have a car crash and then trace it backwards.
It is a very difficult and complicated and exhausting process. In any writers’ room – and this is the first show I have written and run – there are two invaluable things: one is inspiration, and the other is those collaborators who have done research. We talk to everybody who was involved, though not to the traffickers that much because they give the same story: they were misunderstood, innocent, not as they were depicted.
Our guiding thematic principle is that this world is extremely complicated. It is never bad guys and good guys. It is bad guys and very bad guys. And there is almost never any justice, only a doomed mission that is underneath it all. By episode seven, we know Escobar will have blown up an airplane. But how he gets there is the fun part. He is a character like Icarus, or Macbeth. An archetype and also the truth. Our job is to find the most dramatic version of that. The veracity of it gets more imperative. I think we are somewhere around 60% to 70% true. But what you find is that this world is full of unreliable narrators, wishful thinkers, self‑deceivers.
I come from movies, and we look at things in terms of a three-act structure. What everyone wants and why they can’t get it has to be established very clearly in the first act. The middle act tends to be an escalation of things, leading in the third act to a massive confrontation. Doing that over 10 hours kind of explodes the drama. Some of the younger writers in the room have grown up with this TV format. Right now we have 10 writers, and the younger ones have had experience primarily in television. For a screenwriter, that always used to be seen as a failure. Now it is the opposite. It has changed over the last 10 years, but particularly since The Wire and The Sopranos, that first golden age of cable television.
I would say in terms of all three seasons I may be the only consistent presence in the writers’ room. People come and go, but you burn out pretty quickly. Every morning I wake up and I attempt to convince my wife that I have no idea what I am doing and that this is the season that will expose me. And then I drive to the office, and almost invariably, after about an hour staring at this massive whiteboard with all the characters and diagrams of who killed whom, we find inspiration. It is like being in a police operations room. The key thing is that this is not a job, and if you try to approach it like a regular job you can’t do it. It requires a level of commitment that only comes if you love it and are interested enough in it to talk about it until exhaustion.”
Jill Soloway is the creator of Amazon’s Transparent, the comedy drama that returned for a fourth season on Amazon last week. Soloway previously worked as a writer on several other series including Six Feet Under and was best director at the Sundance film festival in 2013 for the feature Afternoon Delight.
Transparent stars Jeffrey Tambor as Maura Pfefferman, a retired college professor who opens up to his family about having always identified as a woman. Soloway’s father came out in a similar way in 2011. Tambor and Soloway, who now identifies as nonbinary, both won Golden Globes for Transparent in 2015, the first time an internet-streaming show had won the award for best series.
“I think of our writers’ room like the perfect dinner party or the perfect gathering. You want a whole bunch of different opinions in there and yet you don’t want to get bogged down in conflict. I look for people who understand how to play well with others but who are also strong personalities. In terms of writers, you want people who are shit-starters creatively, but not in real life.
We have been quite a tight team, but for season five of Transparent, which we are writing now, we are having a little transition – losing a few writers and gaining some. We are having more trans women in the writers’ room; we actually have three trans women and five trans people in total if you count people who are gender-nonconforming. It’s exciting to slowly make the room reflect the possibility of the story.
It is always like a group commitment, Monday to Friday. Sitting in that room on the beanbags and dreaming up the characters is the most fun thing ever. I will spend slightly less time there now because I am directing, and I might be editing or whatever, but it is still where I want to be most.
I couldn’t have possibly imagined in a million years that this would happen. The fact that this quite personal thing has turned into a publicly consumed phenomenon is quite special. My sister was the very first person I hired. I really used the show as an excuse to get her to move to LA. We have been writing together since we were kids. She is my first writing partner.
When I first pitched the idea, Amazon Studios were the only ones who really wanted it and because they were just starting we didn’t even know if that was viable. Now it feels like a very safe place. HBO was interested, but they wanted us to do some developing and it maybe would have taken a few years. Amazon went after it really vigorously, and are involved, but with a very light touch. I think the fact that the audience can take it all in one go if they want to and really go into their own experience with it shapes what we do a little. It is a much more involved experience, when it comes to watching and bingeing. We try to think about when people might stop and when they might keep going, in a natural way.
In the writers’ room we plan, but it always changes. Things grow and change and take unexpected turns just like people do. We feel like the souls of the Pfefferman family are real – and they become more real to us with each series. They are really growing. When I see those early series I can’t believe how young Josh and Ali look, like babies.
Six Feet Under was a very similar vibe. I tried to learn from Alan Ball, who led that room. He used to tell us: ‘Just believe the family exists in the centre of the room, and then you all sit around and conjure them up.’ We are like that with the Pfeffermans. We want them to tell us what they want, we want that open feeling when the show starts to write itself, letting the characters come to us in dreams or while we are in the shower.
The writing itself can be tough. I never write when I am trying to write. I have to read the previous draft, take a walk, have a bath, live, think, dream, love, laugh and wait for the inspiration that says, ‘Here is the new scene!’ and only then do I sit down at a computer.
It is a different kind of all-consuming than it was at the beginning. It is a little less painful in a way. I think the show still has dark elements, but we are able to hold on to them a little bit more loosely and let things happen. I don’t feel quite as urgent about trying to collect the pain as I did at the beginning. I had wanted to have my own show for such a long time that in the first couple of years we almost felt like in a race against time. Now we can let the Pfeffermans do their thing and not feel we have to convey an agenda. I am hoping it can continue for many years.”
Alec Berg is the showrunner and an executive producer and director on HBO comedy Silicon Valley, which follows five young techies trying to make their fortune in a startup called Pied Piper. Berg previously worked as a writer on Seinfeld and on Larry David’s Curb Your Enthusiasm and has four Emmy nominations for his writing. Silicon Valley is in its fourth season, and Berg is currently leading the team writing series five, which will air next year.
“Every year we start the writing process by saying: ‘What are the big-picture issues in the real Silicon Valley?’ And: ‘How do we get at them?’ We have dealt with gender issues recently. The big one now is privacy. On the one hand, it is easier to steal from reality than make things up. On the other we have to be very photo-real, which takes a lot of research.
Silicon Valley is a very different thing from Seinfeld or Curb Your Enthusiasm – and harder to write in that those shows were not serialised. It is pretty unique, I think, to try to create a narrative arc of this length in a comedy show. It is not just a day in the life. This is about people who are trying to accomplish something and the big question is, can they accomplish this thing without selling their soul? Every episode has to be a step along that journey.
On Seinfeld there was no writers’ room. Every writer would sit in their own office and work on their own episode. And then you would run it by Larry [David] and Jerry [Seinfeld] and they would say, ‘more of this’, or ‘steer clear of that, someone else is writing the same thing’. On Silicon Valley we have 10 or so writers in the room. We generally all outline together. Then one writer will pick an outline and write a draft. Then the rewriting of that draft is done in smaller groups. You can’t rewrite with 10 people. It’s usually me and the writer and one or two others.
It is a fact of life that whatever you are writing expands to fill the time you have. If we had six months to do one episode, it wouldn’t be enough time. It’s never enough time. The maddening thing is that until you have a deadline, psychologically, it is impossible to make good decisions. You’re never done, but it gets to the point where this is as good as we can make it in the time that we have.
In that sense with Silicon Valley, it is always: anything we have that works goes in. I have never heard anyone say, ‘That’s great! Let’s keep it on the shelf for next year.’ In season one there was that great thing where you could say, ‘Maybe this is the show, maybe that is the show.’ ‘Put this in, this can be the show!’ But the more you do it, the less freedom you have. It becomes more: ‘That’s not the show, that’s not how we do it.’
One thing we know is that failure is generally funnier than success. Every once in a while, we get to the point in the story where the guys in the show have a big win, and then we sit down and say: ‘Let’s write three episodes where things are going great for them.’ And we just can’t do it. It is too boring for the audience. The audience is invested in the characters and wants them to succeed, but if they do succeed, it is not interesting.
My own curse is I now have 25 years of ideas I can’t use. I don’t think I am any better at coming up with good ideas, but I am better at knowing what bad ideas are. I used to think a third of what I wrote was pretty good, now it is about a 10th. Quite often the only way we know something works is that we have written every other possible version of it and it works better than the other things. Even then you are not sure. We are writing things now that won’t air for nine months. Some things are funny now, but won’t be so funny in nine months. Just occasionally the exact right thing comes along at the right time.
One of the strange things about this format is writing without an ending. The first four seasons on Silicon Valley, we pointed the boat out into the middle of the ocean and set sail. We are now starting to have conversations about where we are headed. Season five doesn’t feel like the end, but season six or season seven might. Season five is about half done. We start shooting at the end of October. And then there is constant rewriting of the stuff we are shooting. We never have any idea of what the last two or three episodes will be. In that sense, you can never escape this thing. The shooting crew comes in for three months, and they are kind of nomads, going from one thing to the next. They will often ask me what I am working on next. I will say: ‘I’m working on this. Just on this. I do this all the time.’”
!!!@@@$$$

As Quentin Crisp once pointed out in a lecture: if he were to bring a distinguished old Yorkshireman on stage, the audience might be perplexed; but if he brought a polished abstract sculpture with a hole in the middle, the audience would cry out, “Ah! Henry Moore!” So AA Milne’s long career as poet, playwright, polemicist, peace campaigner and novelist is completely eclipsed by four short children’s books which, as he put it in 1952, he created, “little thinking / All my years of pen-and-inking / Would be almost lost among / Those four trifles for the young”.
That “almost” is no longer needed. Pooh is one of a tiny handful of creations that are so enormously successful we forget the infelicity of their names: Boots, the Beatles, Star Wars, Winnie-the-Pooh. One of the great secrets of success is that, more often than not, it is not the kind of success you were hoping for. You want to be Hamlet but you’re hailed as a clown, and now you can never be any kind of Hamlet. You want to move on but your global hit exerts all the gravity of a planet and you are trapped in its orbit. Failure at least has the comfort of hope. Milne’s life story brilliantly illuminates what it feels like to be tested by huge, unlooked-for success.
It isn’t easy. Frankenstein was so eclipsed by his own creation that it has robbed him of his name. Milne had a long, successful career in the theatre – a world in which the writer becomes accustomed to a certain amount of petting and caressing. He gets to hear the audience call “Author! Author!” No one did that at Pooh events. They wanted to see the bear and – more troublingly – the boy.
Milne isn’t of course the only writer to find himself swallowed up by his own creation. You could say his friend and hero JM Barrie wrote with great commercial success after Peter Pan, but what does “after Peter Pan” mean? Peter Pan was, is and always will be; Barrie’s other works are of their time. The overarching drama of the Sherlock Holmes stories is the great detective’s struggle, not with Moriarty, but with his creator’s attempts to kill him off.
The tragedy of Milne’s success is that it trapped a real child in time like a fly in amber
Milne carved out his career in the suave, seductive world of London’s clubs in the 1920s and the green rooms of Shaftesbury Avenue. It’s good to be reminded of just how long and demanding an apprenticeship he had served before he discovered Pooh. His peerless dialogue has its roots in his playwriting career.
His study of classics and his work on Punch had given him the extraordinary ease and range he shows in the poems. Milne’s are probably the last poems written that really cry out to be memorised and recited. I can’t think of one more easily absorbed and enjoyed than “Disobedience”, nor one that captures so perfectly this childhood terror.
It’s good to be reminded, too, that Pooh was not universally adored, that writers who had admired Milne’s lightness of touch turned on what they saw as the mawkishness of Pooh. “Tonstant Weader,” said Dorothy Parker, “twowed up.” “Timothy Bobbin,” wrote PG Wodehouse, “goes Happily hoppity hoppity hop.” Cruellest of all is Richmal Crompton’s brilliant skewering of the cult of Christopher Robin in the poem “Homework”: “Anthony Martin is doing his sums.” Public adulation is salt in the wound of a writer who has lost the admiration of his peers. Milne’s letters to his brother Kenneth uncover the wellspring of his creativity with all its childish joys, shadowed by tragedy. They are a real find. Of course, when I was asked to write a film about Milne I left that out.
Biography looks for what makes the individual different; drama looks for what we have in common. You can sell a million books if you write a good story well but a cultural phenomenon like Pooh needs something else. It needs to touch a raw nerve. That terrible review by Parker also covered Christopher Morley’s children’s book I Know a Secret – which really is a pile of mawkish mush. There was a fashion for sentimentalising children on which people like Morley successfully cashed in. Milne on the other hand searched it for its source and found something true and terrible and enduring.
The House at Pooh Corner stands in a glade between two dark shadows – the aftermath of one war that had just finished and the dread of one coming. No one who fought in the first world war knew it was the first world war. On the contrary, they had been told that they were fighting the war that would end all wars. It must have been with the most bitter irony and failure, then, that Milne’s generation watched their children march away to a war that they had been told would never happen. The Milnes received that dreaded telegram telling them their son was missing in action and presumed he was dead. This could have happened to anyone; this was feared by everyone. It’s there – something you can build a film around. It’s the shadow that makes the carefree days in the Hundred Acre Wood tremble and shimmer with their own fragility. They are suffused with a sense that happiness is possible and valid even though we know it is short-lived. It’s a feeling that is expressed with peculiar intensity in the political situation of the between-the-war years, but which applies to everyone everywhere all the time.
It is there, too, in the child who plays in the woods – in Christopher Robin himself. On the one hand he is Robin Hood revelling in the freedom of the Greenwood but he’s also a babe lost in the wood. What marks Christopher Robin out from other children in literature – from William, say – is that he’s often absent from the adventures. Often his role is to come and put things right. He’s more like a kindly uncle than a child. Through the carefree forest he carries a burden of responsibility.
The other unusual thing about Christopher Robin of course is that he was – to some extent – a real boy. The difference between Winnie-the-Pooh and, say, Sherlock Holmes, is that Pooh did not just swallow Milne, it also swallowed Christopher Robin. Imagine if Barrie had called Peter Pan Peter Llewelyn Davies. When Czeslaw Milosz said, “When a writer is born into a family, the family is finished”, he meant that a writer will betray his parents and siblings. Milne on the other hand – however innocently – betrayed his son. The magic of the Hundred Acre Wood is that it takes something painfully fleeting and makes it stay for ever. The tragedy of Milne’s success is that it trapped a real child in that moment like a fly in amber and made it almost impossible for him to become that thing that every child wants to become – a grownup. Is there a threat more pathetic and painful than Christopher Robin’s cry “We’ll see how father likes it when I write poems about HIM”?
For all its shadow, what really abides about this story is the light, the sense that happiness – no matter how fleeting – is real. The fact that we are all moved and enchanted by the Hundred Acre Wood, that it calls to us, is proof that these passing moments are as real and essential as the more solid and enduring things with which we surround ourselves, that we find in them something true and paradoxically enduring, even eternal.
!!!@@@$$$

‘I can see that, as a body of writing, it is a rag-bag of styles and genres,” Michael Rosen once said of his work. “But does it matter? I’m not trying to hoodwink anyone. I’m not trying to gain membership to a Peerage of Poets. I write ‘Bits’ and ‘Stuff’.” As always, the future children’s laureate was being both modest and a little feisty. Still, it’s a good description of So They Call You Pisher! It’s a mishmash, at once merry and pensive, of personal memoir, a history of left politics in postwar England, a portal into a lost Jewish London and a portrait of the artist as a nervy young man.
Famous individuals flicker in and out of the narrative – among them Christopher Hitchens, Howard Marks and Clive James (the latter yelling, “I’ll fucking have you! You’re ruining everything I’ve ever worked for!” when Rosen fluffs lines at a student revue audition) – but at its heart are his parents Harold and Connie Rosen. Harold was a poet, a noted educationalist, author of Are You Still Circumcised? (1999), and treated by some contemporaries “as if he was a cross between Lenny Bruce and Isaiah Berlin”. He and Connie met at a Young Communist League meeting in 1936 and both fought against Oswald Mosley’s fascists in the battle of Cable Street that year.
Willy Goldman, author of the timeless East End My Cradle (1940), described himself as “forever a prisoner in this not too tender trap. I can never escape from it and I would never want to.” Unlike his parents, Rosen grew up on the opposite side of London (“1950s Pinner was not the most encouraging place to start a branch of a political organisation aimed at world revolution”), but he absorbs and makes his own stories about the radical, rambunctious East End: women leafleting for rent strikes, live chickens on Hessel Street, dray horses skidding on the winter ice, “old migrants, sailors from all over the world” sitting in Whitechapel library while “talking about ‘the heim’ and politics and playing dominoes”.
The secular Rosens dreamed of another world too. They chose or cut off friends according to their politics. They read the Daily Worker assiduously, brought home books from Moscow’s Foreign Languages Publishing House, went on camping trips, and took holidays in eastern Europe. “They were yearning,” Rosen writes, “for something bigger and more universal than freedom for Jews alone: it was the liberation of all humankind they were after.” That’s also why, he believes, they were so disappointed when he chucked in his medical studies at university: “It seemed to them that it was the most worthwhile of all professions, devoted solely and selflessly to the benefit of others.”
So They Call You Pisher! is full of holes and absences – the homes and homelands of so many Jewish refugees; Rosen was 10 before Harold told him about an older brother who, aged just one, “coughed to death in your mother’s arms” – but it also brings to life countless epiphanies and emergences: Beyond the Fringe; Michael Foot on television; holidaying with French teenagers; Eric Hobsbawm drawing connections not just between political situations across European nations in the 19th century, but between politics and Beethoven; Joan Littlewood’s production of Oh, What a Lovely War!; and, when hearing Dylan, being agog at the way he had “invented a way of singing that sounded as if it was talking”.
Sound is at the centre of Rosen’s book. It rings with ribald Yiddish phrases, vividly remembered parental warnings (“Don’t eat the corned beef!” “Take the chicken!”), the triumphant choruses of folk and blues songs roared by Aldermaston protesters. It speaks eloquently about the impact of discovering the work of Gerard Manley Hopkins with its “jazzy, jerky feel” and “the free verse, ‘proletarian’ poems full of dialogue, proverbs and slang” of American poet Carl Sandburg. Best of all is a tribute to the Beatles – not their music so much as the wit and cross-fire repartee with which they peppered their interviews. I chuckled at his recollection of Maurice Bowra, classics don and warden of Wadham College, Oxford, trying to engage with students at high table: “Mmm, Ceylon, I was in Colombo. Walls. Very fine walls.”
Rosen has spent much of his life writing poetry that charms younger readers, and also advocating for inclusive, experimental approaches to mass education. The formative episodes of his youth include losing touch with a junior school friend who failed his 11-plus, and an exchange scheme with Winchester College, whose students he envies on account of the more adult and less formalist approaches to literature to which they’re exposed. He recalls studying Far from the Madding Crowd, about which a teacher asked, “Hardy. Mmmm. Optimist or pessimist?” Rosen himself is a bit of both – by turns tender and tetchy, antic and subdued, always keen to preserve disorder.
• So They Call You Pisher! A Memoir is published by Verso. To order a copy for £14.44 (RRP £16.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
!!!@@@$$$

She was drawn to bohemians, just as they were drawn to her. She liked the louche hours they kept, their smoking and drinking, their refusal to do the right thing. They, in turn, enjoyed the cachet of having a real-life princess on display. It didn’t really matter that she could be difficult. After all, being difficult was her party piece. If she happened to round off an evening with a display of her famous hauteur, then it gave them something to write about.
As for Princess Margaret, she never quite understood the stuff and nonsense to which she found herself drawn. Or perhaps she understood the stuff, but not the nonsense. “What is a bohemian? What does it mean?” she once asked a lady-in-waiting, in all innocence, shortly after her marriage to the fashionable photographer Antony Armstrong-Jones.
“Well, Ma’am,” came the reply, “with Tony it means he won’t always turn up to lunch when he says he will.”
Bohemians were, as she never quite appreciated, not entirely to be trusted: the moment you left the room they would start making their catty little remarks, and on returning home they would pen their waspish observations in their diaries, ready for publication a decade or two later.
Aged 45, the princess found herself in the lions’ den, placed between Gore Vidal and Tennessee Williams at Vidal’s 50th birthday party in 1975 at Mark’s Club in Mayfair. Among her fellow guests were Kenneth Tynan, Tom Driberg, Ryan O’Neal, Jonathan Miller and Claire Bloom; Lady Antonia Fraser brought along her new boyfriend, Harold Pinter. When Tynan got up to make a speech, he addressed them all as “comrades”, as the occasion coincided with the last day of the Labour party conference in Blackpool. He wasn’t being humorous.
Conversation between Williams and Princess Margaret got off to a sticky start. “I’m afraid we can’t talk to each other, Ma’am,” he said, “because we live in such different worlds”.
“What world do you live in?” asked the princess.
“Are you acquainted with the opera La Bohème, Ma’am? That’s my world.”
As it happened, Williams’s suspicion was spot on: a few years before, the princess had confided to Cecil Beaton that she “loathed” plays such as A Streetcar Named Desire. “I hate squalor! Tennessee Williams makes me feel ill!”
We know all this because Beaton jotted the conversation down in his diaries, and Williams jotted it down too, and so did Tynan, and so too did Tynan’s former wife Elaine Dundy and so did the birthday boy himself, Vidal. And, the moment her back was turned, one can imagine them imitating her squeaky, high-pitched voice. Someone who was an occasional guest at Tynan’s soirees told me that the assembled bohemians – actors, writers, artists, musicians – would kowtow to her royal highness while she was present and then make fun of her the moment she left, mimicking her general ignorance, her cackhanded opinions, her lofty put-downs, her absurd air of entitlement. The presence of the princess would endow a party with grandeur; her departure would be the signal for mimicry to commence.Beside these laughing sophisticates, the princess could sometimes appear an innocent.
And yet she thirsted for their company. Throughout her adult life, she leaned towards the artistic, the camp and the modish, even going so far as to marry Armstrong-Jones, a man at the centre of that particular Venn diagram. This means that she shows up without warning, popping her head around the door of every other memoir, biography and diary written in the second half of the 20th century. It is almost as though everyone above a certain level of fame met her, at one time or another.
She is there in the index of the Andy Warhol diaries, between Charles Manson and Imelda Marcos, and in the Kenneth Williams diaries, between Margate and Miriam Margolyes. One moment, she is attending a dinner party with George Melly, Edna O’Brien, Shirley Maclaine and a couple of Rolling Stones; the next, she is being feted in Hollywood, in pride of place on a table with Michael Caine, Steve McQueen, Neil Diamond, Gene Hackman, Jack Nicholson, Barbra Streisand, Clint Eastwood and Joni Mitchell.
❦
Where did it come from, her tendency towards the artistic? Margaret’s elder sister, their parents and grandparents regarded the arts as less to be enjoyed than endured. “Come over here, May, this’ll make you laugh,” George V called to his wife, Queen Mary, when he first set eyes on a Cézanne. Listening with her children to TS Eliot reading from The Waste Land at a wartime recital, the Queen Mother had to stifle her giggles. “Such a gloomy man ... we didn’t understand a word!” she explained some years later.
But, as she grew up, Princess Margaret was drawn to the arts as a moth to a flame, or, if not to a flame, then at least to a cushion. Early in their lives, her elder sister had cornered the market in dutifulness, surrounding herself with the tweedy and the trusty. It was only natural, then, for the more flighty Margaret, throneless and fancy-free, to go in search of company less starchy and more glamorous.
Cecil Beaton referred to her as 'the poor midgety brute', 'wealthy seaside landlady' and 'a little pocket monster'
After the young princess’s thwarted affair with the divorced Peter Townsend, 16 years her senior, the bohemians sensed that she might be one of their own, the free-thinking victim of a stiff, cold-hearted establishment. At the end of October 1955, when she announced (“mindful of the Church’s teaching that Christian marriage is indissoluble ...”) that she and the group captain were to part, the Daily Express carried an excitable “We, the undersigned” letter from a group of cutting-edge figures in the arts, among them Lindsay Anderson, Humphrey Lyttelton, Wolf Mankowitz, Ronald Searle and Tynan. They said they deplored the spectacle of “the Establishment in full cry”, going on to declare that these “encroachments on personal freedom” had “exposed the true extent of our national hypocrisy”.
She could inspire less high-minded thoughts, too, in other members of the arts fraternity. Receiving a prize from the young Princess Margaret in 1958, the 52-year-old John Betjeman was so overwhelmed by her curvaceous presence that tears came into his eyes, a reaction duly noted by his waspish friend, Maurice Bowra, the chairman of the judges, who lampooned it in a parodic verse:
“Green with lust and sick with shynessLet me lick your lacquered toes.Gosh, O gosh, your Royal HighnessPut your finger up my nose ...”
The dour novelist John Fowles, four years older than her, had long nursed a secret passion for her, noting in his diary in March 1951, when the princess was 20, that he found his girlfriend wanting, and “I have day-dreamed of seducing Princess Margaret”. A year later, he confessed that his first novel, The Collector, a creepy tale about a man who kidnaps and imprisons a beautiful young art student, was the fulfilment of a “lifelong fantasy of imprisoning a girl underground. I remember it used often to be famous people, Princess Margaret, various film stars. Of course, there was a main sexual motive ... a forcing of my personality as well as my penis on the girl concerned.”
Over in France, the most celebrated artist in the world was also nursing a tendresse for the young princess. It was in the early 1950s that Pablo Picasso first began to have erotic dreams about her. Occasionally, he would throw her elder sister into the mix. “If they knew what I had done in my dreams with your royal ladies, they would take me to the Tower of London and chop off my head!” Picasso confided to his friend Roland Penrose.
Having moved into a vast villa, La Californie, in 1955, Picasso had set his sights on the only young lady in the world he deemed worthy of it. There was, he said, just one possible bride for him: the 24-year-old Princess Margaret. Not only was she as royal as can be, but she was also his physical type: shorter than him (he was five foot four inches, so would tower over her) with beautiful skin and, he noted approvingly, good strong teeth. He made it clear to the British art dealer Douglas Cooper that this was more than a whimsy. In fact, he would not let the matter drop, growing more and more absorbed in plotting the right strategy. He would, he said, draw up a formal proposal on parchment, in French, Spanish or Latin, for Cooper to present to Her Majesty the Queen on a red velvet cushion. John Richardson, Picasso’s future biographer, was to stand by, dressed as a page or a herald, complete with trumpet. “If we didn’t have the right clothes, Picasso would make them for us: cardboard top hats – or would we prefer crowns?” recalled Richardson. “He called for stiff paper and hat elastic and proceeded to make a couple of prototypes.”
Picasso’s fascination with Margaret stayed close to fever pitch for a decade or more. When Penrose escorted her round the Picasso exhibition at the Tate Gallery in 1960, he told the princess how sad the artist would be to have missed her. “She smiled enchantingly and I think I glimpsed a blush spreading beneath her tan,” Penrose reported back to Picasso.
Despite the persistent efforts of Richardson, Cooper and Penrose, Picasso’s passion for Princess Margaret was never reciprocated, let alone consummated. In fact, quite the opposite. “Many years later, I told Princess Margaret the story of Picasso’s quest for her hand,” recalled Richardson. “Like her great-great grandmother Queen Victoria, she was not amused; she was outraged. She said she thought it the most disgusting thing she had ever heard.”
In one way or another, the princess’s encounters with artists never quite went according to plan, perhaps because, when push came to shove, each side would refuse to kowtow to the other. They all follow the same arc: the princess arrives late, delaying dinner to catch up with her punishing schedule of drinking and smoking. Once at the table, she grows more and more relaxed. By midnight, it dawns on the rest of them that she is in it for the long haul, which means that they will be too, since protocol dictates that no one can leave before she does. Then, just as everyone else is growing more chatty and carefree, the princess abruptly remounts her high horse and upbraids a hapless guest for overfamiliarity. “When you say my sister, I imagine you are referring to her majesty the Queen?”
❦
At such moments, it is as though she was released by alcohol from the constrictions of informality. After a succession of drinks, she was at last able to enter a stiffer, grander, more subservient world, a world in which people still knew their place: the world as it used to be. And then her rudeness knew no bounds. It was almost as though, early in life, she had contracted a peculiarly royal strain of Tourette syndrome, causing the sufferer to be seized by the unstoppable urge to say the first thing that came into her head, just so long as it was sufficiently unpleasant.
In 1970, the film producer Robert Evans flew to London to attend the Royal Command Performance of his film Love Story, in the presence of the Queen Mother. He was later to recall their brief encounter.
“All of us stood in a receiving line as Lord Somebody introduced us, one by one, to Her Majesty and her younger daughter. It was a hell of a thrill, abruptly ending when the lovely princess shook my hand.
“Tony saw Love Story in New York. Hated it.”
“Fuck you too,” I said to myself, smiling back.
The rebuke became her calling card, like Frank Ifield’s yodel or Tommy Cooper’s fez. An avid follower of the arts, she seemed to take delight in expressing a damning verdict after each show, often to those involved in it. Introduced to the TV producer Dennis Main Wilson, she asked him what he did. He told her he produced “a little show called Till Death Us Do Part”, to which she replied, “Isn’t that that frightfully dreary thing in the East End?” In 1990, Richard Eyre, the artistic director of the National Theatre, was obliged to stand in the foyer to await her arrival for a preview of Stephen Sondheim’s Sunday in the Park with George. “As she comes in she announces to me quite loudly that she can’t STAND Sondheim. She demonstrates this quite conspicuously throughout the evening.”
Two years later, she attended a preview of Rodgers and Hammerstein’s Carousel. After meeting the cast, she was escorted to the door by Eyre, who made a note of their brief conversation:
ME: I’m glad you enjoyed the show.
SHE: I didn’t. I can’t bear the piece.
Even when given her own chance to perform, she did so very off-handedly. Playing herself at the Borsetshire Fashion Show on The Archers in 1984, she sounded curiously flat and uninvolved, almost as though she couldn’t get to grips with her own character. After the first run-through, the producer, William Smethurst said: “That’s very good, Ma’am, but do you think you could sound as if you were enjoying yourself a little more?”
“Well, I wouldn’t be, would I?” replied the princess.
❦
Of course, the artists and writers had the last laugh: they always do. One or two stood up to her at the time. Francis Bacon stood at the back and heckled as she was singing a selection of cabaret songs. Finding himself at an adjacent table to where Princess Margaret and Lord Snowdon were dining with Bryan Forbes, Nanette Newman and Peter Sellers, a drunken Dudley Moore staggered over to the princess, bowed low and, with a demonic gleam in his eye, slurred, “Good evening, your royal highness. I suppose a blow job is out of the question?” At a reception in the Dorchester Hotel after the royal premiere of A Hard Day’s Night, the 21-year-old George Harrison, feeling peckish, said the words that so many people, before and after, dreamed of saying: “Your highness, we really are hungry and we can’t eat until you two go.”
“I see,” said the princess obediently. “Well, in that case, we’d better run.”
But most waited until she was safely out of sight, or better still dead, before taking their revenge. The most spiteful were those who had once been most sycophantic. Cecil Beaton refers to her in his diaries as, successively “the poor midgety brute”, “like a wealthy seaside landlady” and “a little pocket monster”. Sir Roy Strong, whom she had welcomed to so many dinner parties over the course of three decades, calls her “tiresome, spoilt, idle and irritating” in his diaries. Leaving her service of remembrance at Westminster Abbey, he reflects that “she was such a capricious, arrogant and thoughtless woman”.
Oddly enough, it was the most caustic of commentators, Gore Vidal, who remained most loyal, even though that loyalty was not always reciprocated. “The trouble with Gore,” she once observed, “is that he wants my sister’s job.” Four years after her death, Vidal declared that Princess Margaret had been “far too intelligent for her station in life”, adding that “she often had a bad press, the usual fate of wits in a literal society”. He claimed that she had once told him the reason for her unpopularity. “It was inevitable; when there are two sisters and one is the Queen who must be the source of honour and all that is good, the other must be the focus of the most creative malice, the evil sister.”
The language sounds more like his, but the sentiment was undoubtedly hers. Margaret thought the world cruel for seeing her as the negative version of her sister, yet it was also how she came to define herself.
In middle age, hurt by life, she retreated into camp, becoming a nightclub burlesque of her sister. But she was never camp in the same way that the Queen Mother was camp. Her camp was not arch or sentimental. It did not strive to be inclusive, or merry, or to render the world as a romp. She didn’t twinkle or sparkle. She would never say “Such fun” as though she meant it; she would take pains to inject the phrase with a dash of generalised irony. Nor was she camp in the service of something beyond herself. She had no wish to draw others in, and refused to offer them the illusion, however fleeting, of parity. Being thought “real” or “down to earth” is not what she wanted.
She was of royalty, yet divorced from it; royalty set at an oblique angle, royalty through the looking glass, royalty as pastiche. At a fancy-dress party on Mustique, she wore a Valkyrie outfit, hired for her by Colin Tennant from a Los Angeles costumier, and in it she mimed an aria from the Ring Cycle. For her 50th birthday, the Tennants gave her a gold-embroidered dress from India. “I’ve always LONGED to have a dress like that,” she said. “It’s what a REAL princess would wear.” She was royalty as Hokey-Cokey, one-foot-in, one-foot-out; royalty as real yet unreal; royalty as real as you want it to be, as the mood takes you.
She was cabaret camp, Ma’am Ca’amp: she was Noël Coward, cigarette holders, blusher, Jean Cocteau, winking, sighing, dark glasses, Bet Lynch, charades, Watteau, colourful cocktails at midday, ballet, silk, hoity-toity, dismissive overstatement,, arriving late, entering with a flourish, exiting with a flounce, pausing for effect, making a scene.
Ma’am Ca’amp is having a drink in a cut-glass tumbler delivered to you in the swimming pool and then ordering your hostess to bring the tumbler into the pool, even though she is fully clothed. Ma’am Ca’amp has her hosts’ compliance in these antics. Ma’am Camp enjoys inverting expectations: to those expecting grace, it presents hauteur; to those wanting empathy, it delivers distance. To those in need of tradition, it offers modernity. To those in need of modernity, it offers tradition.
It is languid, bored, world-weary, detached, bored, fidgety, demanding, entitled, disgruntled, bored. It carries the seeds of its own sadness and scatters them around like confetti. It is disappointment hiding behind the shield of hauteur, keeping pity at bay.
It is pantomime as tragedy, and tragedy as pantomime. It is Cinderella in reverse. It is hope dashed, happiness mislaid, life mishandled. Nothing is as thrilling as they said it would be: no one is as amusing, as clever, as attractive or as interesting. The sun never shines as bright as it used to, and even the fiercest thunderstorm lacks any real sense of drama or pizzazz. When Cinderella dies, her little glass slipper is put up for auction, a memento of days of hope and innocence. The catalogue entry reads, “Only worn once”.
• Ma’am Darling: 99 Glimpses of Princess Margaret is published by 4th Estate. To order a copy for £14.44 (RRP £16.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
!!!@@@$$$

It is not often that Shakespeare and Marlowe go head to head: you have to go back 50 years to find an imaginative Stratford pairing of The Merchant of Venice and The Jew of Malta. But, as part of its Rome season, the RSC brings us Coriolanus (1608) and Dido, Queen of Carthage (1586) on the same day. If Shakespeare’s is the greater play, it is the Marlowe production that for me generated greater excitement.
Angus Jackson kicked off Stratford’s staging of Shakespeare’s Roman plays with an excellent Julius Caesar unfashionably staged in togas. He now concludes it with a decent, if unsurprising, Coriolanus played in modern dress. It starts brightly with a fork-lift truck placing stacks of grain behind an iron grille: a reminder that the play shows famished citizens seeking redress for their grievances. Shakespeare’s play also raises timeless questions about the danger posed to any state by an out-of-touch ruling class and a discontented populace. But Jackson’s production has little of the urgency of the brilliant Ralph Fiennes movie (2012), shot in Serbia and reeking of events in the former Yugoslavia.
Jackson’s strength lies in exploring nuanced relationships. Sope Dirisu, who memorably played Cassius Clay in the Donmar’s One Night in Miami, brings to Coriolanus a strong presence and martial vigour but his verse-speaking lacks suppleness and irony. If he is never quite the mythical “lonely dragon” of Shakespeare’s text, he is most revealing in his contact with other people. His dependence on Volumnia is positively Oedipal and Haydn Gwynne, in the best performance of the evening, beautifully shows her transition from a silky Roman matriarch into a gaunt, hollow-eyed figure pleading with her son to abandon his attack on his native city.
The homoeroticism of the relationship between Coriolanus and Aufidius is also graphically shown, with James Corrigan as the Volscian leader leaping into his old opponent’s arms and grieving over his dead body like a stricken lover. Paul Jesson as Menenius conveys the old patrician’s quasi-paternal worship of the boy-hero and, even if the casting of the popular tribunes as women seems like a token gesture to gender equality, the staging is clear and well ordered. But, while Jackson’s production is psychologically probing, it seems politically neutral. Having started by showing the legitimate anger of the people, it leaves the question of where ultimate power should lie hanging in the air.
If Coriolanus is regularly revived, one of the joys of Dido, Queen of Carthage lies in discovering a virtually unknown play. Shakespeare’s Globe staged a dreadful production in 2003 which treated it as a playground romp. In fact, it is an extraordinary mix of sombre tragedy and ironic comedy in which Marlowe dramatises a classical legend familiar from Virgil: the Carthaginian queen offers a home to the Trojan refugee Aeneas, falls in love with him, and is then abandoned as he pursues his divinely appointed mission to found Rome.
Kimberley Sykes directs it with a fluidity that perfectly balances the pictorial and the verbal. Her production, in Ti Green’s design, is full of strong images: the first glimpse of a stranded Aeneas seen dangling upside down; the closing sight of Dido writhing in suicidal despair. While Shakespeare may have parodied inflated Marlovian rhetoric in the Player King’s speech in Hamlet, the text is also full of unforgettable lines.
Aeneas, describing Troy’s fall, talks of “Young infants swimming in their parents’ blood” and says: “We saw Cassandra sprawling in the streets.” Meanwhile Dido, foreshadowing Dr Faustus, says of Aeneas: “He’ll make me immortal with a kiss.” Edith Hall makes a fine point in the programme when she notes that Marlowe does not call his play Dido and Aeneas but gives the queen the title. Chipo Chung plays her with a volatility and sense of contradiction that anticipates Shakespeare’s Cleopatra. Chung brings out all of Dido’s rhapsodic fervour for Aeneas but is at her best in the great speech where she is torn between sabotaging his ships to prevent his departure and expressing her undying love. Sandy Grierson similarly catches the conflict in Aeneas between settling in seductive Carthage and fulfilling his imperial destiny.
This may be early Marlowe that faithfully follows its source, but Sykes’s production shows there is wit in the storytelling: Ben Goffe’s mischievous Cupid, instructed to ensnare Dido, pursues her with a hypodermic needle like a madcap doctor, and Nicholas Day’s Jupiter eyes the boyish Ganymede with the indecent enthusiasm of an Olympian lech.
In any juxtaposition of Shakespeare and Marlowe, the former will always be the winner, but this production makes a strong case for the youthful classicist from Canterbury.
!!!@@@$$$

Workers at the Ritzy cinema in Brixton, south London, will go on strike again on Saturday as a dispute over pay enters its second year.
Members of the Bectu union will walk out for 24 hours. The row has since spread to several other Picturehouse cinemas in London and Brighton.
The workers want higher wages, sick pay and the reinstatement of several union representatives who were sacked this year after industrial action.
Sophie Lowe, one of the striking Ritzy workers, said: “One year on from the start of this dispute, we are planning a substantial escalation in the campaign.”
There will be nine strikes during the British Film Institute’s London film festival next month. The action will include a demonstration at Leicester Square on 4 October – the first day of the festival – involving staff from the Crouch End, Hackney and East Dulwich Picturehouses, as well as Picturehouse Central and the Ritzy.
During the festival, staff at the Hackney and Central cinemas will strike from 5pm on 6-8 October and from 11-15 October.
The BFI said it supported the Picturehouse workers’ call for payment of the London living wage, which it paid its own employees.
“The BFI is disappointed that the London Film Festival has become associated with this industrial action. The current plan is that LFF screenings will go ahead as published at both Picturehouse Central and Hackney Picturehouse.”
The campaign has won the support of high-profile figures including actor Sir Ian McKellen and director Ken Loach. They are among 25 actors and screenwriters who have urged the public to boycott Picturehouse cinemas and their parent company, Cineworld.
Loach, a Bectu member, said: “Picturehouse is owned by Cineworld, which is a big multinational corporation. They make fortunes. The idea that they pay starvation wages because they can get people who are desperate for work is absolutely shocking. Victory to the Picturehouse striker, no doubt.”
The struggle of Picturehouse staff has also garnered political support with the shadow chancellor, John McDonnell, and other Labour MPs writing a letter in the Guardian expressing concern over treatment of trade unionists.
“Any suspensions or sackings intended to intimidate trade union members would be a matter of deep concern for the whole labour movement. No trade unionist or Labour party member can tolerate the deliberate intimidation of trade union activists for pursuing their legitimate business,” they wrote.
Picturehouse has created the Picturehouse Staff Forum, described as a “fake union” by Bectu members. They claim it has been set up by Picturehouse specifically to block Bectu from being able to negotiate on behalf of its members at other cinemas.
A Picturehouse statement said: “Paying our staff a fair wage is hugely important to us. Staff at the Ritzy are paid £9.10 [an hour] – equivalent to £9.70 when working an eight-hour shift as we choose to pay for breaks.
“We also offer statutory sick pay, maternity/paternity pay and 28 days’ paid holiday among other competitive benefits. This makes Picturehouse Cinemas one of the highest-paying employers in the cinema industry.”
The London living wage is £9.75 an hour – 65p more than what Picturehouse staff are paid. This is calculated by the Living Wage Foundation and has led other cinema chains such as Curzon to agree to pay their staff this rate in 2014 amid a similar dispute.
Cineworld reported a pre-tax profit of £98.2m for 2016 – slightly lower than the previous 12 months.
Naomi Taylor, a Bectu official, told the Guardian: “Cineworld owns Picturehouse and Cineworld’s chief executive earned £2.5m just last year. Picturehouse can afford to pay their staff a living wage – they just choose not to.”
About 70% of Cineworld’s UK front-of-house staff, including 700 at Picturehouse are on zero-hours contracts without benefits such as parental leave or sick pay.
!!!@@@$$$

Two cult heroes of youth from decades past make a reappearance this week. Jim MacLaine was the hero of Ray Connolly’s 1973 movie That’ll Be the Day, about a young man turning his back on a university education at the turn of the 60s in order to try his hand in a rock’n’roll band. MacLaine is back in a new dramatisation (23 September, 2.30pm, Radio 4). Meanwhile, the original star of that film, David Essex, is the guest on Simon Mayo (27 September, 5pm, Radio 2) as he prepares to go on tour with Suzi Quatro, Hot Chocolate and the Osmonds. The Book at Bedtime is The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole Aged 13¾ (Weekdays until 6 October, 10.45pm, Radio 4) read by Harry McEntire. Here, it is still 1981 and Adrian vows to start the new year by putting his records back in their sleeves.
National Poetry Day is this Thursday. In The Essay (Weekdays, 10.45pm, Radio 3) Don Paterson reflects on five poems he wishes he’d written, beginning with Seamus Heaney at the beginning of the week and finishing with Robert Frost on Friday. That night, Ian McMillan presents The Verb (29 September, 10pm, Radio 3) live from Hull with a look at poetry inspired by the city. He talks to poet and editor Rachael Allen about the university’s famous librarian Philip Larkin. Earlier the same day, John Cooper Clarke guests on Radcliffe and Maconie (29 September, 1pm, 6 Music) to talk about Hull’s poetry festival Contains Strong Language, which began the day before.
Ken Bruce inaugurates the week of Radio 2’s 50th anniversary with a special Friday Night Is Music Night (29 September, 8pm, Radio 2) with the BBC Concert Orchestra from the Hackney Empire. This memory lane meanders past much-loved classics such as Open House, The News Huddlines and Sing Something Simple. The star turn is Albert Hammond, performing a selection of classic Radio 2 hits.
Constitutional is an unashamedly educational podcast from the Washington Post. Sub-titled “a podcast about the story of America” it’s presented by Lillian Cunningham who engages scholars to explain the fascinating story of how a nation is designed from scratch. If you wish to get closer to understanding such knotty issues as states’ rights and Jim Crow – issues that are as real and present as tomorrow’s headlines – this a good place to start.
Radio 3 shows such as Between the Ears also make the kind of podcasts that draw the most from your noise-cancelling headphones. The programme commissions ideas that make adventurous use of sound. With the right noise cancellation you can travel to the source of Yorkshire’s river Don to hear about the revived worship of its goddess Danu or hear a sound engineer remove the hiss and adjust the pitch of old wax cylinder recordings of Joseph Taylor, who first sang Brigg Fair for Percy Grainger in 1905. It’s a welcome corrective to the usual babble.
!!!@@@$$$

Does the Tardis ever get stuck in traffic? The space-time highway suddenly seems more congested, with our TV schedules clogged up with time-travelling shows – from the period drama-with-a-twist Outlander to DC’s superheroes in Legends of Tomorrow, and action-adventure shows such as Timeless. Not all of them have the longevity of Time Lords. Making History, in which a bungling time traveller’s love life threatens to disrupt the past as we know it, has disappeared into a black hole after just one series. And time has also been called on Time After Time – a series that coupled sci-fi pioneer HG Wells and Jack the Ripper, in modern-day Manhattan. Frequency – where the time machine was an amateur radio that allowed a daughter to communicate with her dead father – was also cut short.
Yet none of this has put off the creators of a new UK sitcom, Timewasters, from adding their own spin on the time-travelling trope. In the ITV2 series a south London jazz quartet find themselves stranded in the 1920s after getting into a lift in a rundown block of flats – a set-up that writer Daniel Lawrence Taylor says originally inspired the cheeky title Black to the Future, before Universal ruled it out.
So what is behind the enduring appeal of leaping through the ages – and why is it suddenly surging in popularity? Lorna Jowett, the author of Time on TV and reader of television studies at the University of Northampton, says our fascination lies in our own mortality coupled with our obsession “with youth and putting off the passing of time”. But the pace of our time-pressed modern life might play a part in an increasing enthusiasm for the genre. “Often it is mundane things that appeal to people about time travel – you probably wouldn’t [go back in time to] try and kill Hitler; you would stop yourself being late.”
The recent spawning of shows, she suspects, reflects our current anxieties about the state of the world. “Some of the more modern ones are about people coming back from the future to try and fix things,” which, she says, could be linked to the fact “the global political scene feels a little apocalyptic” – sending us scurrying towards what we assume was a simpler time.
This would explain why time-travel programmes, which once focused on future societies, today seem to heavily focus on the past – such as Outlander. “The nostalgic trend gives people something to fondly reminisce about,” Jowett points out. “It’s a period drama by another name. The conservative underpinning is the fact that people feel their comfortable lives are being threatened by changes.” Yet, she says, time-travel shows can also interrogate or subvert such assumptions. Life on Mars and Ashes to Ashes, where police officers go back in time a few decades “unpick” this view of the past “suggesting that if we went back to the 1980s we would remember how bad it was”.
Timewasters, too, plays with our preconceived ideas of the 1920s, created in TV shows such as Downton Abbey or House of Elliot, one character wistfully suggesting: “People like us never get to time travel – it’s what white people do, like skiing or brunch,” before his friend offers a reason why. “Any time before the mid-80s wasn’t good for black people.”
I meet the cast on their last day of filming in a beautiful Georgian house in Liverpool complete with 1920s furniture. In one scene, Nick, the quartet’s trumpet player (played by Taylor), is leaving his friends to live with a girl he has just met. Impeccably dressed in a roaring 20s-style three-piece suit, his friend and fellow musician Lauren, played by Adelayo Adedayo, is ranting at him. “Maybe you make her breakfast, or lie about keeping in touch on Facebook,” she fumes. “But who proposes to a one-night stand?”
Saxophonist Jason (Kadiff Kirwan) is taking a more romantic view. “She gave you her heart despite the social stigma of interracial relationships in this age of ignorance,” he sighs. The scene neatly ties up the show’s promise to extract the silliest comedy from the collision of the past and future cultures, and the ethnicity of its characters at a time when slavery was still in living memory. Jowett says this is another reason why the genre has been so durable and can easily be slotted into a sitcom setting. “All time-travel shows involve a culture and ideology clash – because we have different ideas now,” while “often the time-travel device throws people together in close quarters.”
The Timewasters premise also offers a sly dig at the lack of diversity in period dramas such as Downton Abbey – whose first recurring black character was a US jazz musician played by Gary Carr. Samson Kayo, who plays singer Horace, jokes that playing in a period drama is “like playing a Russian as a black man. It’s one of those things you never see happening.” Kirwan points out that this reflects a lack of awareness of the history of BAME (black, Asian, minority and ethnic) people in the UK. “Lots of the period dramas give off the impression that black people weren’t invented yet or something,” he says. “There’s never a nod to black culture or the existence of black people in Britain. Which is heartbreaking because so many different ethnicities were responsible for building the British empire.”
But Taylor says this was not exactly intentional. “At the time I was learning how to play the trumpet and I just thought it would be funny to write about a jazz band. Then I thought it would be cool to set it in a different time period – the 1920s – but there still wasn’t enough going on and I thought, what if they went back in time?”
Researching the period, he says, naturally led to jokes about attitudes to race. “In the 1920s there was racism, but also negrophilia [a craze for black culture, when to collect African art, to listen to black music and to dance with black people was a sign of being modern and fashionable]. In Timewasters there are people chucking things at the quartet in the street, while others want a black jazz band in their house or a black lover – it’s ripe for comedy.”
Film studies professor and author of Time Travel in Popular Media, Matthew Jones isn’t surprised that identity politics and nostalgia are becoming recurrent themes in recent time-travel shows. “We are clearly in a moment of anxiety about identity politics, and I think there is something about the nostalgia for a simpler past and the problems of what that means in identity terms. The past being hankered for is [essentially] a patriarchal, white past, so playing out the problematisation of what that means comes up time and time again.”
Daniel Lawrence Taylor says writing about the past certainly helped him to “reflect on where we are now – in terms of racism and prejudice. They are still here and still run deep but someone described [racism today] as more ‘sophisticated’ because it is not thrown at you in the street, but it might be embedded in the way you work, in education and so on.”
The distance of time also allowed him to discuss difficult issues such as “negrophilia or cultural appropriation”, which if he had included in a modern context might have got a different reception. “It’s like the way people feel about America – if there is police brutality or #OscarsSoWhite, Brits find it easier to talk about it or be outraged about than when things happen here. Having it set in the 1920s means there is some distance. It was quite a lovely thing to be able to put things that we find uncomfortable talking about into comedy. Because that’s often where we talk about things we find uncomfortable.”
Yet Taylor says jokes are prioritised above political and period details. “It is foremost a comedy and you need to be laughing – anything else is a bonus. We changed storylines that were too close to the bone. The minute you start preaching to people, they turn off.” And while he understands the risk of launching another time machine in a crowded field – “the tricky thing about high-concept shows is they are prone to dying a horrible death” – he thinks it is one worth taking. “When one works, it is amazing.”
Timewasters starts on Monday 9 October on ITV2
!!!@@@$$$

The grand final of Celebs Go Dating (Weekdays, 10pm, E4), in which people off the telly are paired with “civilians” in the hope of finding romance, is almost upon us. In a few days, our glamorous singletons’ needy pronouncements (“I don’t want to be the last gay man left on the shelf”) and suave seduction techniques (“You’ve got nice boobs”) will be private once more. Truly, a nation weeps.
Viewers watching for the first time imagining, at the very least, someone from EastEnders making small talk over a steak dinner, or a former Spice Girl hoping for some zig-a-zig-ah, might have found themselves a bit confused. Even dedicated readers of OK! magazine would have struggled to separate the celebs from the normals here. We are, surely, nearing the final spin of this endlessly rinsed format, based on the assumption that nobodies become somebodies as soon as “celebrity” is affixed to the title.
Among the lonely hearts are Towie’s Bobby Norris (orange-hued realitybot); Towie’s James “Arg” Argent (self-anointed king of the bantz); Made in Chelsea’s Georgia “Toff” Toffolo (never been north of Notting Hill), Calum Best (oily offspring of George), Charlotte Dawson (gobshite spawn of Les) and Frankie Cocozza (berk). A-listers they are not, but who could begrudge these bright young scions of the reality age a stab at romance? When I say bright, I naturally mean in the visual sense. Not content with spray-tans that, to the untrained eye, look like third degree burns, our protagonists’ smiles reveal hours spent in the chairs of Harley Street cosmetic dentists, reality TV’s answer to Rada.
I want a guy to sweep me off my bunions and feed me chips and gravy for the rest of my life
With each episode, the celebs visit “dating experts” Eden Blackman and Nadia Essex who mull over their romantic performance and help them find a match. At intervals they are dispatched to a bar teeming with dolled-up youngsters similarly keen to climb the reality ladder and are required to ask someone out. We subsequently watch them on their dates as they sit, stupefied by tequila, regret sweeping across their faces. Some fare better than others. While Calum batters his dates with compliments and indulges in what he calls “eye-fucking”, “handsy” foghorn Charlotte instructs her suitors to drop their trousers so she can inspect their bums. This might be a bit rum were it not for the fact that Charlotte isn’t averse to flashing a bit of flesh herself, having long given up the fight to keep her breasts safely stowed in her clothing. “I want a guy to sweep me off my bunions and feed me chips and gravy for the rest of my life,” she announces, fabulously. Charlotte doesn’t need a date, she needs a stage.
For the most part, the celebs, high on shots and all-you-can-eat curry, appear to be having the time of their lives. Eden, however, looks like a man defeated, quietly wondering how he came to be advising hard-of-thinking TV types on not sounding as if they’re chewing the cud while kissing. Meanwhile, Nadia’s pass-agg hair-twiddling suggests certain death for candidates who don’t heed her advice. “Two words,” she barks at Arg, last seen trying to reel a thread of saliva back into his mouth during dinner, “DON’T DRIBBLE.” The participants may not come away with future spouses, but they’ll at least have picked up some table manners. Given the generally low bar set here, I’d call that a triumph.
!!!@@@$$$

A hugely successful series is a hard act to follow. Those of us who loved Cressida Cowell’s brilliant How to Train Your Dragon books about Hiccup, his dragon Toothless and the Viking world they live in might have felt a little concerned when they came to an end in 2015. What would she do next?
I am pleased to report that The Wizards of Once – the first book in a new middle grade series – is terrific. It introduces us to a new fantasy world, though its roots again lie deep in a familiar mulch of history and legend. Not the Norse myths this time, but a fantasia of ancient Britain, a land of dark, mysterious forests and powerful magic.
The backstory is very simple, involving three groups of beings of both sexes, the witches (magical but evil), the wizards (magical but good) and the warriors (not magical at all). The warriors were invaders from beyond the sea, took a strong dislike to the witches, and wiped them out – or so they thought. And as they believed all magic was bad, they soon set about trying to get rid of the wizards as well.
Things are at a stalemate when the story opens. The warriors are still determined to destroy the wizards and their magic, and the wizards are equally determined to fight back. Two young characters are plunged into this toxic mix: a wizard boy called Xar, who has as yet no magic powers, and a warrior girl called Wish, who owns a banned magical object she must keep hidden at all costs.
There are rumours that some witches still survive, and Xar sets out to capture one as part of a campaign to prove himself to his disapproving father, the scary Encanzo the Enchanter. Wish has parent problems too. Her mum, Sychorax, is queen of the warrior tribe: tall, icy and deeply disappointed in her daughter. Xar and Wish meet and find themselves in an adventure that quickly spirals out of control.
What follows is a rollercoaster of suspense and surprise as they get themselves in and out of trouble. They are very different but complement each other perfectly – Xar boastful and impetuous, but with a heart of gold, Wish more thoughtful and serious, and possessed of a strong moral sense. Both are bold, brave, believable young characters children will identify with.
The book has all the familiar Cowell trademarks. The story never flags, even at moments of calm and reflection, and the writing has humour, grit and depth. She provides her own illustrations, and their scratchy style and scribbled annotations strike the right note. It all adds up to a beautifully designed hardback volume.
Several characters have names adapted or taken from The Tempest – as well as Sychorax, there’s a sprite called Ariel and a bird called Caliburn (left) – so I sense a late-Shakespearean theme of magical reconciliation being shaped for the rest of the series. But it’s clear that Xar and Wish have unwittingly unleashed real evil, so there will be plenty more alarums and excursions to come.
• Tony Bradman’s most recent book is Attack of the Vikings (Bloomsbury Education). Wizards of Once by Cressida Cowell (Hodder Children’s Books, £12.99). To order a copy for £11.04, go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.
!!!@@@$$$

Frances Hardinge’s last novel, The Lie Tree, won the overall Costa book award in 2015; the only other children’s book to have done so is Philip Pullman’s The Amber Spyglass, in 2001. Hardinge is at the forefront of children’s fiction, with a rich, unusual taste for language, an eye for the striking and apt image and stories that reveal a staunch defence of the weak and the oppressed. What is more, she combines a subtle, intellectual approach with plots that swoop and soar.
Her darkly splendid new book is a worthy follow-up to The Lie Tree, set just before the start of the English civil war. Hardinge has always been interested in splits and doubles; in how a character, apparently good, can be only a sliver away from being bad; in how perceptions and opinions shift according to perspective and situation. Her heroine in Cuckoo Song was a fairy changeling, unaware that she had been created and placed into the family that she thought hers; Faith in The Lie Tree must fight against the strictures placed on women in the 19th century, while unpicking a web of falsehoods around her scientist father.
Makepeace, the protagonist of this new book, also faces a mystery around her birth, and is surrounded by a similar web of lies. All these girls are born into power structures that appear to constrict; all learn that things can be made more malleable.
The central themes of A Skinful of Shadows are inheritance and power, and how these link to governance both literal and psychological. An aristocratic family, the Fellmottes, possess an unusual ability. They can catch ghosts and absorb them into their own minds. Makepeace, being a bastard daughter, is tracked down by the family, who wish to protect their property and bloodline at all costs. And yet, as Makepeace discovers, her mother fled from them, and, as her last wish, begs her to flee too.
Hardinge is adept and vivid in creating a sense of terrifying, apparently permanent grandeur: the Fellmotte house, Grizehayes, is ancient, implacable and vast; Lady April, one of the family, treads over the outstretched palms of an underling rather than get her dress wet. It is not hard to see a critique of aristocracy: should some families, here quite literally in thrall to their ancestors through their ghosts, be any more suited to power than others? The damage done as a result is incalculable.
Hardinge gives the opposing Puritans a similar kind of treatment, with their inconsistencies and excesses laid bare, and it is to her great credit that she delineates the attractions and horrors of both sides, symbolised in the characters of James, a bastard tempted by nobility, and Symond, the noble heir who seems to shift allegiance. Makepeace, travelling from one camp to the other, reads news sheets of the same battles from both sides, each proclaiming loudly that they, and only they, are right. The problem of echo chambers and fake news is an old one. The most appealing characters here are the in-between ones: the spies, roustabouts and uncoverers of nuggets of information, those who risk their lives not in the service of ideology, but in the service of life itself.
Thanks to large amounts of gold, the Fellmotte family have managed to persuade Charles I not to expose their supernatural dealings. Makepeace must navigate these tricky territories, while staying true to her brother James and managing the increasing number of ghosts that pop into her head (including a wonderfully sniffy doctor, a reformed Puritan and another, more mysterious being). What gives the book its strength is the essential fairytale backbone of a girl going out into the world to achieve, and to reach a higher level of existence.
Perhaps in response to the Puritan elements in the story, Hardinge’s language in this novel is less elaborate than it has been, resulting in a cleaner, sharper diction. There are many wonderful moments that have the unmistakable Hardinge tang. Makepeace accidentally absorbs the ghost of a bear, symbolising both the uncontrollable id that she must subdue and the violence threatening to tear apart the country in “surprising zigzags”. She develops a deep rapport with her beastly fellow traveller, but often it’s “like reasoning with a thundercloud”.
The pull of the story is towards subversion, and Makepeace ends by reappropriating her inherited gifts, and using them not to provide a vessel for antiquated mores, but to succour the weak and the dispossessed. This is a wonderful, resonant narrative whose subtlety and insight will challenge, entertain and enchant.
Philip Womack’s latest book is The Double Axe (Alma).
• A Skinful of Shadows is published by Macmillan. To order a copy for £11.04 (RRP £12.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
!!!@@@$$$

Born in London, Kiefer Sutherland, 50, is the son of actors Shirley Douglas and Donald Sutherland. In the 80s and 90s, he starred in films including Stand By Me and The Lost Boys, Flatliners and A Few Good Men. From 2001, he played Jack Bauer in the television series 24. His latest Netflix series, Designated Survivor, is out on DVD next week. He is also a country singer-songwriter, and this year he made his Glastonbury debut. He is twice divorced and has a daughter, the actor Sarah Sutherland.
When were you happiest? I consider myself quite a happy person. One of the most exciting times was when Sarah was born.
What is your earliest memory?Swimming with my mum and dad.
What was your most embarrassing moment?I wore a pair of my brother’s track pants to school when I was in third grade, because I thought they looked so cool on him. He was seven years older, so they looked ridiculous.
Property aside, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought? Aside from a car, it would be a guitar. I used to have almost 100, but now I am down to 22.
What is your most treasured possession?An acoustic guitar I have with me all the time: it’s a 1959 Gibson Western.
What makes you unhappy?Not being able to solve a problem frustrates me the most.
Who would play you in the film of your life?I wouldn’t wish that on anyone.
What is your most unappealing habit?Smoking.
If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose?I would focus on trying to keep things that are becoming extinct alive.
What do you most dislike about your appearance?The list is long: given the fact that my dad is 6ft 4in and all my brothers are 6ft 4in-plus, I wish I was taller.
What is your favourite smell?Nature in Canada, where I’m from. I have always loved the lakes in the north and the smell of the woods.
What is your favourite word?As a Canadian, it would be “Sorry”.
What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you?“I hate you.” It was said at school by someone who didn’t like me.
What is your guiltiest pleasure?Watching Modern Family.
What do you owe your parents?I guess everything. I don’t think either of them wanted me to go into entertainment, but all the choices I made were directly from things I had watched them do, so they gave me a great deal of confidence.
To whom would you most like to say sorry and why?There have been moments when I’d want to say sorry to both my parents for some of the stuff I’ve done.
What does love feel like?The easiest thing for me to say would be comfort and at ease.
What was the best kiss of your life?I don’t think I’ve had it yet – I’m hoping!
Have you ever said ‘I love you’ and not meant it?No.
What is the worst job you’ve done?I’ve been lucky enough to act for 35 years. The only other job I had was as a cook at a drive-in restaurant, and I enjoyed that as well.
What has been your biggest disappointment?Some of my choices were mistakes, so I’d have to say myself.
If you could edit your past, what would you change?I would take things a little slower.
!!!@@@$$$

Three decades after it won the Whitbread prize, Ian McEwan’s The Child in Time has become a TV film. It will be screened this weekend in the coveted Sunday 9pm drama slot on BBC1, with Benedict Cumberbatch playing a children’s writer whose daughter vanishes on a shopping trip.
This transmission launches an unofficial festival of McEwan adaptations: Dominic Cooke’s On Chesil Beach (in which I play a minor role) will be shown at the London film festival next month before a general release next year, soon followed by Richard Eyre’s movie of The Children Act.
The rush of productions reflects the fact that McEwan has consistently used genre templates. He has adopted for more discursive or subversive purposes the conventions of the spy thriller (The Innocent, Sweet Tooth), the crime novel (The Cement Garden, The Comfort of Strangers, Enduring Love, Saturday, Amsterdam), romance (Atonement, On Chesil Beach) and, in The Children Act, the sort of domestic ethical dilemma that is the signature of more obviously populist novelists such as Joanna Trollope and Jodi Picoult.
McEwan has also been more prolific as a writer of screenplays than any other Booker prize winner apart from Ruth Prawer Jhabvala, who, in addition to taking the literary prize in 1975 for Heat and Dust, won two Oscars for her work with Ismail Merchant and James Ivory.
As a young writer of scandalous short stories, McEwan was rapidly talent-scouted by TV drama departments. Jack Flea’s Birthday Celebration, an oedipal comedy about a young man’s relationships, was shown on BBC2 in April 1976. He then wrote a BBC1 Play for Today, The Imitation Game (1980), directed by Richard Eyre; this script about a woman involved in the second world war code-breaking at Bletchley Park was at least the equal of the unrelated 2014 movie of the same name in which Cumberbatch played Alan Turing. Eyre and McEwan then made The Ploughman’s Lunch (1983) for Channel 4, with Jonathan Pryce memorable as a cynically ambitious journalist in the Thatcher era.
However, despite this busy visual CV, the enthusiastic advance word about The Child in Time, On Chesil Beach and The Children Act – following preview or festival screenings – represents a recovery of the screen’s confidence in McEwan and his in it. Until this accidental trilogy of films, the writer’s relationship with TV and cinema has been mixed, even by the unhappy standards of collisions between literature and film. Earlier in his career, McEwan suffered the two worst results a screenwriter can endure: banning and studio interference.
The writer’s own adaptation of his short story “Solid Geometry” was cancelled by the BBC mid-production in 1979, with a corporation press release citing “grotesque and bizarre sexual elements” in a play that included the prop of a severed penis preserved in a glass jar. (The story was eventually filmed by Channel 4 in 2002.)
McEwan’s original script for The Good Son, a film about a child who seems to have the potential for evil, went though the hands of multiple directors and other writers before becoming a 1993 vehicle for then child star Macaulay Culkin. McEwan publicly dissociated himself from the film, although his name is on the credits.
McEwan also suffered the more regular disappointment for a novelist of books not quite translating cinematically. Despite classy adapters and directors – Harold Pinter scripting Paul Schrader’s The Comfort of Strangers (1990), Joe Penhall writing Roger Michell’s Enduring Love (2004) – his books never seemed as suited to cinema in execution as they had appeared before shooting.
The Innocent (1993) was far from the best work of its star, Anthony Hopkins, or its director, John Schlesinger, possibly because the studio tried nervously to market as a romance a movie in which the key scene involves the protagonist and his lover cutting up the body of her husband and packing it into suitcases. The closest to movie gold was Joe Wright’s Atonement (2008), which was nominated for seven Oscars, winning one for its score.
Now, though, McEwan seems to have become the most screen-friendly novelist of his generation. Writers with a high screen strike rate are sometimes accused by critics of starting to write books that are screenplay-ready. McEwan’s most recent novel, though, might win an anti-Oscar for its resistance to filming: Nutshell is narrated by a foetus. If that story is to extend his current screen festival, perhaps only a visual maverick such as Charlie Kaufman (Anomalisa) or Yorgos Lanthimos (The Lobster) could manage it.
• The Child in Time is on BBC1 on 24 September.
!!!@@@$$$

Of the many deeply uncool things I am obsessed with – The Golden Girls, the oeuvre of Roxette, Princess Anne’s hair – the uncoolest is also the one that has been with me the longest. Tom Cruise has been a part of my mental landscape ever since I was old enough to read in a magazine that I was supposed to fancy him. I was alive in the 80s and, as strange as this is now to think about, what with his deeply unsexy obsession since with thetans, back then he was very much pitched as Mr Sexxxxxy. Which is even stranger when you think that Cruise didn’t even grow into his face for another decade: back in Risky Business and The Outsiders, he looked vague and doughy next to his co-stars, particularly the Adonis that was the young Rob Lowe.
Cruise was never really my type, but I will argue until closing time and beyond that he is one of the most watchable actors of all time: a proper Hollywood star who proved in one decade he could do top notch schlock (Top Gun), mediocre schlock (Cocktail) and proper acting (Born On The Fourth Of July and Rain Man, for which he should have won the Oscar instead of Dustin Hoffman).
It’s been fascinating to watch Cruise’s career since then, partly because of what his choice of roles says about him. There was his dramatic period in the 90s when he made relentless Oscar bids, peaking with Magnolia, and then, when that failed, his huffy retreat into decreasingly memorable action movies. He also stopped ageing – or rather, his ageing process took the shape of not actually growing older but increasingly resembling Sandi Toksvig. And that, too, has been fascinating in its way to watch.
But I’m also interested in Cruise because of what he reveals about what audiences will accept in their stars. Now, all celebrities are a bit weird, so when one is known for being Weird Even For A Celebrity, you know they are probably crossing over from “adorably eccentric” to “actually quite scary”. It’s been known for a while that Cruise crossed that line when he started wanging on about Scientology. But it is genuinely interesting how people just shrug off stories of his troubling relationships with women.
Last week it emerged that Cruise’s ex-wife Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx are in a relationship, after having kept this a secret for at least four years. This would be hard to do under normal circumstances, but is frankly Oscar-worthy in the case of two celebrities. It is also so contrary to modern celebrity ethos, which treats romance as a branding opportunity, that it seems downright alien. By contrast, Holmes and Foxx waited to reveal their relationship until almost five years to the day that she got divorced from Cruise, and it is being widely reported that this is because, in order to secure a quick divorce, Holmes had to agree to not date anyone “publicly” for half a decade.
Whether this is true or not is one of the many things about Cruise we will probably never know for sure. But the point is, after years of his increasingly freaky behaviour and the rumours about his relationships with actress Nazanin Boniadi, then Holmes, it sounds sufficiently plausible for no one to question it. “Sure!” the public shrugs. “Controlling your ex-wife’s life for five years – that sounds like our Tom! When’s Mission Impossible 22 out anyway?” If people don’t see his movies now it’s because he makes lame movies, not because of his relationships.
Male celebrities are still given an enormous amount of rope when it comes to their treatment of women, despite multiple lessons from the past. Last week another actor who is notoriously Weird Even For A Celebrity, Jim Carrey, gave a completely creepy red carpet interview, in which he sharkishly, Trumpishly, walked in circles around the female reporter and indulged in teenage-level musings on metaphysics. Two days earlier it was announced that Netflix has bought Carrey’s documentary, Jim and Andy: The Great Beyond, which had just got universally glowing reviews – without anyone mentioning Carrey is about to face a wrongful death trial over the suicide of his ex-girlfriend, Cathriona White. Carrey has denied all the allegations and has tried to stop the trial, by initially insisting White’s bereaved mother pay a $372,000 bond. Ace Ventura was a long time ago, people.
Actors are now regularly criticised if they sign on to a Woody Allen movie, because accusations of child molestation, even if deemed inconclusive by a judge 25 years ago, are too much. But suggestions of creepy controlling behaviour around women are, apparently, still fine. From Howard Hughes onwards, this has always been the celebrity way. Maybe Tom Cruise really is the full Hollywood package.
!!!@@@$$$

By my reckoning, I must be the healthiest person in the country. Brisk 10-minute walk a day? Tick. Two glasses of red wine every evening? Tick. (And if two glasses are good, only imagine the benefits that accrue to me from five.) Four cups of coffee a day? Tick. No smoking? Tick. No recreational drugs? Tick. Sunscreening? Tick. Statins? Tick. More than five hours’ sleep? Tick. More than six hours’ sleep? Tick. Emotional agility: as, for example, overcoming negative emotions by welcoming them with self-compassion? Tick. Porridge? Tick. Porridge and berries? Tick, tick. Cheese (I was once off it to avoid fat, now I’m on it again for protein, calcium and vitamins A and B12)? Tick. Not wearing Lycra? Tick. (I’m not sure whether I shouldn’t be wearing Lycra for health or for fashion reasons, so I’m not wearing it for both. In which case, make that another double tick.)
So why aren’t I feeling well? Could it be that some people are simply not fashioned to feel well no matter how many boxes they tick? There’s a presumption in the health industry that all any of us wants is to get ourselves into shape and live for ever. We are shepherded into blooming longevity, and before we are able to ask ourselves if we wouldn’t rather burn with Walter Pater’s “hard, gem-like flame” and then go out early, we find ourselves 110, unable to remember our name.
Poets are less sanguine about the virtues of durability. “It is not growing like a tree/In bulk doth make Man better be,” wrote Ben Jonson. “A lily of a day/Is fairer far in May,/Although it fall and die that night… And in short measures life may perfect be.”
It’s poets, of course, to whom we turn when we want examples of life perfected in short measures. In Deaths Of The Poets, published earlier this year, Michael Symmons Roberts and Paul Farley argue that in the popular imagination, a dissolute life culminating in an early and ideally messy death has become a precondition of poetic genius. Keats, who was gone in a moment, had the daemon; Wordsworth, who dragged on his life into dull respectability and probably rationed his alcohol intake, did not. What fascinates me is how much work those short-lived poets produce. Does genius, recognising itself to be a “lily of a day”, know it must get a move on? Is genius in a rush because it’s intrinsically morbid?
Meanwhile, the rest of us go on ticking boxes. Maybe the other side of genius indifferent to its health is mundanity taking its statins. If we can’t be a lily, we have to settle for being a tree.
!!!@@@$$$

Displacement has moved beyond a literary theme; for millions, it is reality. The notion of war has been overtaken by upheaval, which forces desperate people to flee without hope of a final destination, allowing history to repeat itself, relentlessly. This is the humanising lens through which Jenny Erpenbeck, Europe’s outstanding literary seer, views our world.
Previously she had looked to the layered history of her own country, Germany, in dazzling metaphysical fictions such as Visitation and The End of Days. As a Berliner born in the former East Germany in 1967, her early experience was dominated by living in a divided city within a fractured country; her work suggests that she believes human understanding resides in memory.
Her new novel resonates with an unexpected simplicity that is profound, unsettling and subtle. The prose, as before astutely translated by Susan Bernofsky, is this time far less incantatory. There is none of the stylistic bravura of Visitation, with its haunting scenes of lives lived and ended, often in images of horror, and of a silent gardener serving as a lone witness to the rampages of history. Instead Erpenbeck has relinquished theatricality for a conventional, calm and at times wry narrative that follows Richard, a self-contained widower and newly retired academic, as he discovers empathy through delving into the individual ordeals of a group of African asylum seekers in Berlin whom he gradually befriends and tries to help.
As the novel opens, the former classics professor is dealing with the prospect of retirement. His self-absorption dictates his daily routines; he is Everyman minding his patch. In his case it is a comfortable home complete with a high-maintenance garden. There is even his boat, tethered by a picturesque lake. Only there is a problem: the lake is less appealing these days. A man has drowned. It was a swimming accident, not suicide. “They say the ill-fated swimmer was wearing goggles.”
Disturbingly, the body remains lost somewhere beneath the placid surface. The image of it drifting in the water recurs throughout the novel and is a powerful metaphor for the uncertain existence of the asylum seekers suspended by bureaucracy – forbidden to work, to stay, to make a life.
It is only when watching the evening news that he realises he had walked by 10 African men staging a hunger strike. “Why didn’t Richard see these men at Alexanderplatz?” When the anonymous protest is ended, he regards it as a pity. “He’d liked the notion of making oneself visible by publicly refusing to say who one is. Odysseus had called himself Nobody to escape from the Cyclops’s cave.” From the opening pages, Erpenbeck makes clear that this cultivated academic knows little about Africa. “Where is Burkina Faso?” he wonders, and is surprised to learn that there are 54 African countries.
The book could easily have become a well-intentioned polemic, but Erpenbeck combines her philosophical intellect with hours of conversations conducted with refugees to tell a very human story about a lonely, emotionally insulated man slowly discovering there is a far wider, urgent world beyond him through his meetings with extraordinary, vividly drawn migrants, each with a story to tell.
Richard is a remarkable creation. He was once himself a displaced child in wartime; initially it is curiosity that draws him to the men. He approaches them as if they are a project, reading several books before compiling “a catalogue of questions for conversations he wants to have with them”. The list is heartbreaking: “Where did you grow up? What’s your native language? What’s your religious affiliation? How many people are in your family? Was there a TV? Did you have pets? How did you say your goodbyes? Can you imagine growing old here? Where do you want to be buried?”
But these men are not cases, they are lives. Some had children, some saw parents being killed. Others watched from boats as friends drowned. Erpenbeck and her translator make effective use of the inane rigidity of bureaucratic language. The law is not concerned that the men are victims of war: “The details of their histories are the sole legal responsibility of the country where they first set foot on European soil … The first thing that’ll be decided on is whether or not they’re allowed to apply for asylum.” The Africans master many languages yet struggle with German. Why? Because no one speaks it to them. Richard helps the men, responding to their interests, contrasting individual cultures and specific dilemmas, whose agonies make him recall tales from the Brothers Grimm. The refugees have nothing except their memories and their mobile phones, which contain invaluable numbers – their sole links with family, friends and who they once were.
Richard, a present-day pilgrim, becomes only too conscious of what he does not know. Music enables him to establish a friendship with one of the men, Osarobo. This echoes the sentiment from Visitation when an old woman recalls: “In the end there are certain things you can take with you when you flee, things that have no weight, such as music.”
Great fiction doesn’t have to be real, but it does have to be true. Erpenbeck’s powerful tale, delivered in a wonderfully plain, candid tone, is both real and true. It will alert readers, make us more aware and, it is to be hoped, more human.
• Eileen Battersby’s Teethmarks on My Tongue is published by Dalkey Archive.
• Go Went Gone is published by Granta. To order a copy for £12.74 (RRP £2.25) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
!!!@@@$$$

“KATHY GRIFFIN BEHEADS PRESIDENT TRUMP”. So shrieked the headline to a story posted on scurrilous gossip site TMZ on 30 May of this year. Griffin, best known for a standup act in which she acts as a showbusiness tattletale recounting mortifying run-ins with more famous celebrities backstage (her most famous targets include Cher, Josh Groban, Ryan Seacrest and Céline Dion), was pictured brandishing a blood-spattered Donald Trump mask looking like a recruiter for a Beverly Hills branch of Isis.
Fallout from the photograph was swift. The 45th president tweeted his displeasure (“Kathy Griffin should be ashamed of herself … Sick!”) and noted that his son Barron was having a hard time dealing with the image. The First Lady added that someone who would pose for such a photograph must be mentally ill.
Griffin explains that the offending snap was taken in about 20 minutes at the end of day-long photoshoot. “I took a picture that you or any one of your friends could make,” she explains. “I put it online and was under federal investigation for conspiracy to assassinate the President of the United States of America. I didn’t do anything wrong. It’s insane and I truly believe if it happened to me it could happen to you.”
Her professional standing was dealt a number of blows. She was speedily axed from her regular job of co-presenting CNN’s New Year’s Eve show with long-time friend Anderson Cooper. An upcoming live tour was cancelled due to death threats. The Secret Service opened an investigation into Griffin’s motives in posing for such an inflammatory picture. The flame-haired comic was assailed by outraged tweets from political and showbusiness luminaries affiliated with both sides of the ideological divide. “I was vilified by everyone,” says Griffin in her characteristic manic rasp. “I was vilified by Chelsea fucking Clinton. I was vilified by my friend Don Cheadle. I was vilified by people I’d had at my fucking home. Nobody had my back. It happened so fast. I didn’t see it coming.”
That it happened to Kathy Griffin at all is ironic. Prior to the Trump decapitation, the most controversial moment in her career was her 2007 Emmy acceptance speech for her reality sitcom, My Life on the D-List, when she reacted to the previous procession of celebrities dedicating their awards to their buddy, Jesus, with a jubilant “No one had less to do with this award than Jesus. Suck it, Jesus. This award is my god now.”
While Griffin is politically engaged on a personal level – “I’m a resister. I still go to every march in the world”– politics is not what built the $10.5m Los Angeles home that is situated next door to Kim Kardashian and Kanye West’s residence. If the name Kathy Griffin was notable in any way to the pop culture consumers of the 1990s, it was either because of a small role in Eminem’s The Real Slim Shady video or a slightly larger one as Brooke Shields’s inappropriate, loudmouth sidekick in the unfondly recalled sitcom Suddenly Susan.
At the same time Griffin was honing her standup persona (Sandra Bernhard and Garfield leafing through The National Enquirer) at comedy clubs, including the Groundlings theatre where, in 1992, she started Hot Cup of Talk with fellow comics Margaret Cho and Janeane Garofalo. Her set evolved to include bits where she would play video clips capturing the likes of Julia Roberts and Mariah Carey at their most deluded and least relatable (“I love Mariah Carey. Remember the breakdown? I love the breakdown”). She comments: “Hollywood is like high school: the celebrities I make fun of are pretty much the mean cheerleaders in school.”
Griffin may share a following and a similarly pugnacious delivery with her friend and mentor Joan Rivers, but Rivers spent much of her stage life dispensing advice on ensnaring men, while Griffin treats straight males with a mixture of disinterest and disbelief. (“Are you a gay man?” she asks me at one point. When I own up to identifying as a straight man, she utters a revolted, “Ugghh. Who’s the publisher of this fucking fishwrap? What are you doing giving me a fucking straight for this interview?”) Mocking celebrity obliviousness propelled Griffin into the mainstream. In 2005, her cable show My Life on the D-List catalogued the daily indignities of being on the periphery of fame, while also dealing with the dissolution of her marriage, the death of her father, and displaying the occasional fragility of her self-esteem.
American comedy in 2017 is synonymous with being loudly anti-Trump. Saturday Night Live’s ratings have never been higher. Bill Maher and John Oliver both just saw their Trump-excoriating current affairs comedy shows renewed until 2020. Late night is filled with highly rated left-wing Trump bashers such as Samantha Bee, Trevor Noah and Seth Meyers. I go through this list with Griffin to illustrate all the people more likely than her to have detonated such a far-reaching explosion. I bring up the name of Stephen Colbert, who started the year with TV experts predicting the day and date of his likely dismissal and is going to end it crowned King Of Late Night. “Fuck Stephen Colbert!” she bellows. “He has the whole power of CBS behind him. Bill Maher frickin’ dropped the n-word and then was back at work four days later with full support of HBO. I was on the no-fly zone for fuck’s sake!”
Returning to a woe-is-me theme she knows that I know is partly material she’s getting in shape for her act and partly genuine indignation, she thunders on. “I’m not a CNN employee. I work there for one night when [network head] Jeff Zucker says, ‘I’m going to pay you a hundredth of what I pay Anderson Cooper and I’m going to limit your jokes so even though you have to co-write the whole four and half hours, you can only have three Trump jokes’,” she says. “This is the head of a global news organisation censoring a comedian on the very night he’s hired that comedian to be as outrageous as possible with their very stoic tentpole star with steely blue eyes.”
Griffin’s reference is to now former friend Anderson Cooper, who denounced her Trump picture. I suggest that Cooper wanted to be seen as being titillated by her comedy while still maintaining a detachment. “That’s the story of my life, honey,” she drawls. “They want to suck the comedy out of me and then they want to detach.”
Griffin doesn’t even pause for breath when asked why, among the plethora of comics trading in potentially treasonous material, she was the one to take the fall. “Fifty-six-year-old female,” she says bluntly. “I will not be convinced this was not a straight-up case of sexism and ageism. I really think Trump went for me because I was an easy target.”
Recently, Hillary Clinton spoke about the dichotomy between Griffin’s treatment and hers during the presidential race. “We recently had this big kerfuffle – this condemnation of Kathy Griffin – for the picture she had of herself holding a head of Trump like a play on Perseus holding the head of Medusa,” she said on the With Her podcast. “They were selling T-shirts and mugs at the Republican [National] Convention with Trump holding my head. Nobody said a word. Not a word!”
On 3 June, Griffin, shaken by the onslaught of disapproval, held a press conference during which she apologised for the picture and mumbled, “I don’t think I will have a career after this.” She has subsequently announced a world tour – “I have to go to Reykjavik to get a laugh!” – whose official poster features her holding a globe in the same way she posed when clutching the Trump head. So, is that apology still applicable?
“All my comedian friends were mad that I apologised at all, but having performed in two war zones, I thought this is a narrow apology because the thing people think was depicted I understand,” she says. “Rosie O’Donnell, the pre-eminent expert on being terrorised by Donald Trump, said, ‘What if Daniel Pearl’s [US journalist who was beheaded by terrorists] mother sees the photo?’ So I totally get it. But in light of everything Trump and the administration have done since, I 100% withdraw my apology.”
Griffin says that it was hypocritical that she was singled out, considering all the things Trump has been responsible for. “I will openly accuse the President of the United States of human rights violations,” she adds. “You know, my whole life and career has been championing the rights of women, gay folk and disenfranchised folk. This administration is a fucking nightmare for us.”
Beyond the death threats, beyond the damage to her reputation, beyond the irreparable damage done to cherished personal relationships, one consequence of that fateful photo session wounds Griffin most deeply. “I was the face of Squatty Potty,” she wails, referring to her endorsement of a popular US toilet stool designed to enhance bowel posture. “Squatty Potty is an organisation run by two married gay guys who hired me for a commercial which they wrote that said, “Kathy Griffin Is Full of Shit.” They put me on the front page of their website and it said, “Kathy Griffin, Queen of Poop.” And then those two gay guys go on Fox News and they say, ‘Kathy Griffin ruined our business!’”
Griffin cackles at the loss of her Squatty Potty millions but then turns sombre. She mentions other celebrities such as Johnny Depp, Snoop Dogg and Bill Maher who have taken a vocal anti-Trump stance. “This will not follow them the rest of their careers,” she says. “I’m the only one who had to do the perp walk. I’m going to have to figure my way out of this and I’m going to have to do it one joke at a time.”
Kathy Griffin plays Vicar Street, Dublin, Wednesday 8 November; London Palladium, Friday 10 November; Assembly Rooms, Edinburgh, Saturday 11 November
!!!@@@$$$

John and I were living on Franklin Avenue in Los Angeles. I had wanted to revisit the South, so we flew there for a month in 1970. The idea was to start in New Orleans and from there we had no plan. We went wherever the day took us. I seem to remember that John drove. I had not been back since 1942–43, when my father was stationed in Durham, North Carolina, but it did not seem to have changed that much. At the time, I had thought it might be a piece.
In New Orleans in June the air is heavy with sex and death, not violent death but death by decay, overripeness, rotting, death by drowning, suffocation, fever of unknown etiology.
The place is physically dark, dark like the negative of a photograph, dark like an X-ray: the atmosphere absorbs its own light, never reflects light but sucks it in until random objects glow with a morbid luminescence. The crypts above ground dominate certain vistas. In the hypnotic liquidity of the atmosphere all motion slows into choreography, all people on the street move as if suspended in a precarious emulsion, and there seems only a technical distinction between the quick and the dead.
One afternoon on St. Charles Avenue I saw a woman die, fall forward over the wheel of her car. “Dead,” pronounced an old woman who stood with me on the sidewalk a few inches from where the car had veered into a tree. After the police ambulance came I followed the old woman through the aqueous light of the Pontchartrain Hotel garage and into the coffee shop. The death had seemed serious but casual, as if it had taken place in a pre-Columbian city where death was expected, and did not in the long run count for much.
“Whose fault is it,” the old woman was saying to the waitress in the coffee shop, her voice trailing off.
“It’s nobody’s fault, Miss Clarice.”
“They can’t help it, no.”
“They can’t help at all.” I had thought they were talking about the death but they were talking about the weather. “Richard used to work at the Bureau and he told me, they can’t help what comes in on the radar.” The waitress paused, as if for emphasis. “They simply cannot be held to account.”
“They just can’t,” the old woman said.
“It comes in on the radar.”
The words hung in the air. I swallowed a piece of ice.
“And we get it,” the old woman said after a while.
It was a fatalism I would come to recognize as endemic to the particular tone of New Orleans life. Bananas would rot, and harbor tarantulas. Weather would come in on the radar, and be bad. Children would take fever and die, domestic arguments would end in knifings, the construction of highways would lead to graft and cracked pavement where the vines would shoot back. Affairs of state would turn on sexual jealousy, in New Orleans as if in Port-au-Prince, and all the king’s men would turn on the king. The temporality of the place is operatic, childlike, the fatalism that of a culture dominated by wilderness. “All we know,” said the mother of Carl Austin Weiss of the son who had just shot and killed Huey Long in a corridor of the Louisiana State Capitol Building in Baton Rouge, “is that he took living seriously.”
As it happens I was taught to cook by someone from Louisiana, where an avid preoccupation with recipes and food among men was not unfamiliar to me. We lived together for some years, and I think we most fully understood each other when once I tried to kill him with a kitchen knife. I remember spending whole days cooking with N., perhaps the most pleasant days we spent together. He taught me to fry chicken and to make a brown rice stuffing for fowl and to chop endive with garlic and lemon juice and to lace everything I did with Tabasco and Worcestershire and black pepper. The first present he ever gave me was a garlic press, and also the second, because I broke the first. One day on the Eastern Shore we spent hours making shrimp bisque and then had an argument about how much salt it needed, and because he had been drinking Sazeracs for several hours he poured salt in to make his point. It was like brine, but we pretended it was fine. Throwing the chicken on the floor, or the artichoke. Buying crab boil. Discussing endlessly the possibilities of an artichoke-and-oyster casserole. After I married he still called me up occasionally for recipes.
The first time I was ever in the South was in late 1942, early 1943. My father was stationed in Durham, North Carolina, and my mother and brother and I took a series of slow and overcrowded trains to meet him there. At home in California I had cried at night, I had lost weight, I had wanted my father. I had imagined the Second World War as a punishment specifically designed to deprive me of my father, had counted up my errors and, with an egocentricity which then approached autism and which afflicts me still in dreams and fevers and marriage, found myself guilty.
Of the trip I recall mainly that a sailor who had just been torpedoed on the Wasp in the Pacific gave me a silver-and-turquoise ring, and that we missed our connection in New Orleans and could get no room and sat up one night on a covered verandah of the St. Charles Hotel, my brother and I in matching seersucker sunsuits and my mother in a navy-blue-and-white-checked silk dress dusty from the train. She covered us with the mink coat she had bought before her marriage and wore until 1956. We were taking trains instead of driving because a few weeks before in California she had lent the car to an acquaintance who drove it into a lettuce truck outside Salinas, a fact of which I am certain because it remains a source of rancor, in my father’s dialogue, to this day. I last heard it mentioned a week ago. My mother made no response, only laid out another hand of solitaire.
In Durham we had one room with kitchen privileges in the house of a lay minister whose children ate apple butter on thick slabs of bread all day long and referred to their father in front of us as “Reverend Caudill.” In the evenings Reverend Caudill would bring home five or six quarts of peach ice cream, and he and his wife and children would sit on the front porch spooning peach ice cream from the cartons while we lay in our room watching our mother read and waiting for Thursday.
Thursday was the day we could take the bus to Duke University, which had been taken over by the military, and spend the afternoon with my father. He would buy us a Coca-Cola in the student union and walk us around the campus and take snapshots of us, which I now have, and look at from time to time: two small children and a woman who resembles me, sitting by the lagoon, standing by the wishing well, the snapshots always lightstruck or badly focused and, in any case, now faded. Thirty years later I am certain that my father must also have been with us on weekends, but I can only suggest that his presence in the small house, his tension and his aggressive privacy and his preference for shooting craps over eating peach ice cream, must have seemed to me so potentially disruptive as to efface all memory of weekends.
On the days of the week which were not Thursday I played with a set of paper dolls lent me by Mrs. Caudill, the dolls bearing the faces of Vivien Leigh, Olivia de Havilland, Ann Rutherford, and Butterfly McQueen as they appeared in Gone With the Wind, and I also learned from the neighborhood children to eat raw potatoes dipped in the soft dust from beneath the house. I know now that eating pica is common in the undernourished South, just as I know now why the driver of the bus on the first Thursday we went out to Duke refused to leave the curb until we had moved from the back seat to the front, but I did not know it then. I did not even know then that my mother found our sojourn of some months in Durham less than ideal.
I could never precisely name what impelled me to spend time in the South during the summer of 1970. There was no reportorial imperative to any of the places I went at the time I went: nothing “happened” anywhere I was, no celebrated murders, trials, integration orders, confrontations, not even any celebrated acts of God.
I had only some dim and unformed sense, a sense which struck me now and then, and which I could not explain coherently, that for some years the South and particularly the Gulf Coast had been for America what people were still saying California was, and what California seemed to me not to be: the future, the secret source of malevolent and benevolent energy, the psychic center. I did not much want to talk about this.
I had only the most ephemeral “picture” in my mind. If I talked about it I could mention only Clay Shaw, and Garrison, and a pilot I had once met who flew between the Gulf and unnamed Caribbean and Central American airstrips for several years on small planes with manifests that showed only “tropical flowers,” could mention only some apprehension of paranoia and febrile conspiracy and baroque manipulation and peach ice cream and an unpleasant evening I had spent in 1962 on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. In short I could only sound deranged. And so instead of talking about it I flew south one day in the summer of 1970, rented a car, and drove for a month or so around Louisiana and Mississippi and Alabama, saw no spokesmen, covered no events, did nothing at all but try to find out, as usual, what was making the picture in my mind.
❦
One afternoon we took the ferry to Algiers and drove an hour or so down the river, in Plaquemines Parish. This is peculiar country. Algiers is a doubtful emulsion of white frame bungalows and jerry-built apartment complexes, the Parc Fontaine Apts. and so forth, and the drive on down the river takes you through a landscape more metaphorical than any I have seen outside the Sonoran Desert.
Here and there one is conscious of the levee, off to the left. Corn and tomatoes grow aimlessly, as if naturalized. I am too accustomed to agriculture as agribusiness, the rich vistas of the California valleys where all the resources of Standard Oil and the University of California have been brought to bear on glossy constant productivity. No Hunting of Quadrupeds, a sign read in Belle Chasse. What could that mean? Can you hunt reptiles? Bipeds?
There are dead dogs by the road, and a sinking graveyard in a grove of live oak.
Getting close to Port Sulphur we began to see sulphur works, the tanks glowing oddly in the peculiar light. We ran over three snakes in the hour’s drive, one of them a thick black moccasin already dead, twisted across the one lane. There were run-down antiques places, and tomato stands, and a beauty shop called Feminine Fluff. The snakes, the rotting undergrowth, sulphurous light: the images are so specifically those of the nightmare world that when we stopped for gas, or directions, I had to steel myself, deaden every nerve, in order to step from the car onto the crushed oyster shells in front of the gas station. When we got back to the hotel I stood in the shower for almost half an hour trying to wash myself clean of the afternoon, but then I started thinking about where the water came from, what dark places it had pooled in.
When I think now about New Orleans I remember mainly its dense obsessiveness, its vertiginous preoccupation with race, class, heritage, style, and the absence of style. As it happens, these particular preoccupations all involve distinctions which the frontier ethic teaches western children to deny and to leave deliberately unmentioned, but in New Orleans such distinctions are the basis of much conversation, and lend that conversation its peculiar childlike cruelty and innocence. In New Orleans they also talk about parties, and about food, their voices rising and falling, never still, as if talking about anything at all could keep the wilderness at bay. In New Orleans the wilderness is sensed as very near, not the redemptive wilderness of the western imagination but something rank and old and malevolent, the idea of wilderness not as an escape from civilization and its discontents but as a mortal threat to a community precarious and colonial in its deepest aspect. The effect is lively and avaricious and intensely self-absorbed, a tone not uncommon in colonial cities, and the principal reason I find such cities invigorating.
Everything seems to go to seed along the Gulf: walls stain, windows rust. Curtains mildew. Wood warps. Air conditioners cease to function. In our room at the Edgewater Gulf Hotel, where the Mississippi Broadcasters’ Convention was taking place, the air conditioner in the window violently shook and rattled every time it was turned on. The Edgewater Gulf is an enormous white hotel which looks like a giant laundry, and has the appearance of being on the verge of condemnation. The swimming pool is large and unkempt, and the water smells of fish. Behind the hotel is a new shopping center built around an air-conditioned mall, and I kept escaping there, back into midstream America.
... At the Ramada Inn in Tuscaloosa I sat outside by the swimming pool about five o’clock one afternoon and read Sally Kempton’s piece in Esquire about her father and other men she had known. There was no sun. The air was as liquid as the pool. Everything seemed to be made of concrete, and damp. A couple of men in short-sleeved nylon shirts sat at another metal table and drank beer from cans. Later we tried to find somewhere open to eat. I called a place on University Boulevard, and the owner said to turn left at the Skyline Drive-in. On the way we got lost and stopped in a gas station to ask directions. The attendant had no idea where University Boulevard was (the University of Alabama is on University Boulevard) but could give us directions to the Skyline.
A traveler in the rural South in the summertime is always eating dinner, dispiritedly, in the barely waning heat of the day. One is a few hundred miles and a culture removed from any place that serves past 7:30 or 8 p.m. We ate dinner one night at a motel on the road between Winfield and Guin. The sun still blazed on the pavement outside, and was filtered only slightly by the aqueous blue-green Pliofilm shades on the windows inside. The food seemed to have been deep-fried for the lunch business and kept lukewarm on a steam table. Eating is an ordeal, as in an institution, something to be endured in the interests of survival. There are no drinks to soften the harshness of it. Ice is begrudged. I remember in one such place asking for iced coffee. The waitress asked me how to make it. “Same way as iced tea,” I said. She looked at me without expression. “In a cup?” she asked.
The waitress in the place in Guin trailed me to the cash register. She was holding a matchbook I had left on the table. “I was looking at your matchbook,” she said. “Where’s it from?” I said it was from Biloxi. “Biloxi, Mississippi?” she said, and studied the matchbook as if it were a souvenir from Nepal. I said yes. She tucked the matchbook in her pocket and turned away.
... The way in which all the reporting tricks I had ever known atrophied in the South. There were things I should do, I knew it: but I never did them. I never made an appointment with the bridal consultant of the biggest department store in any town I was in. I never made the Miss Mississippi Hospitality Contest SemiFinals, although they were being held in little towns not far from where we were, wherever we were. I neglected to call the people whose names I had, and hung around drugstores instead. I was underwater in some real sense, the whole month.
I kept talking to Mrs. Frances Kirby by telephone in Jackson. Mrs. Kirby was in charge of the Miss Hospitality contests, in Bay Springs, Cleveland, Clinton, Greenwood, Gulfport, Indianola, Leland, Lewisville. I was within a few miles of Cleveland on the day that contest would be held, and I called the sponsors, the chamber of commerce, and they said to come on “up at the country club” and watch, but I never even did that.
• South and West: From a Notebook is published by 4th Estate. To order a copy for £8.50 (RRP £10) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
Why did you choose to publish the notebooks now?
I had been looking at the notebooks and it occurred to me that they could be of interest.
What does it feel like to revisit those memories after nearly 50 years?
I’d rather not think of it as 50 years.
What role do your notebooks play in your journalism?
I have kept notebooks since I was a child. They are a fundamental part of my process. The next stage is to polish them, to retype them and see what’s there. If I’m very lucky, something is there. If I’m not very lucky, I do another draft of them. I still keep notebooks. I don’t have plans to publish others, but that may change.
Did it seem more revealing or exposing to publish your notebooks than your other books?
It was a more raw experience. I can’t say why.
There are several unforgettable descriptions of awful motel pools throughout your trip. Why is swimming so evocative to you as a writer?
I like to swim. In California, where water is scarce, pools represent control.
In his forward to South and West, Nathaniel Rich suggests that your experiences of the South of the 1970s are uncannily pertinent to the US of 2017. Was the crisis in US politics a factor in your decision to return to that period?
I suppose the crisis in American politics was behind everything I was thinking, whether or not I knew I was thinking it. These things have a way of creeping in. I think we currently are living through the scariest of times.
!!!@@@$$$


Feuds are one thing. When it happens between two of music’s biggest stars, it’s a royal rumble. The bad blood between Elton John and Madonna is perhaps one of the most epic in modern pop-culture history.
It all started when the “Rocket Man” singer threw shade at the Queen of Pop in 2004 at the Q Awards, an annual music award show put on by United Kingdom-based Q magazine. John was honored with the Q Classic Songwriting Award, and rocked the music world during his acceptance speech when he questioned Madonna’s nomination for best live act.
“Since when has lip-synching been live?” John said of his former friend at the time. “Sorry about that, but I think everyone who lip-synchs on stage in public when you pay like 75 quid to see them should be shot. Thank you very much. That’s me off her [expletive] Christmas card list, but do I give a toss? No.”
The Material Girl lost to Muse, and her team went on the defense. Spokesperson Liz Rosenberg released a statement that read, "Madonna does not lip-synch nor does she spend her time trashing other artists. She sang every note of her Re-Invention tour live and is not ashamed that she was well paid for her hard work ... Elton John remains on her Christmas card list whether he is nice ... or naughty."
But the eight-time Grammy winner wasn’t done dissing the pop superstar. During an interview with Australia’s Channel 7 on August 5, 2012, John said of Madonna, "She's such a nightmare … Her career is over, I can tell you that. Her tour has been a disaster and it couldn't happen to a bigger [expletive]."
"If Madonna had any common sense, she would have made a record like Ray of Light, stayed away from the dance stuff, and just been a great pop singer and made great pop records, which she does brilliantly. But no, she had to prove that she was like…,” John continued. "And she looks like a [expletive] fairground stripper."
Us Weekly’s Famous Feuds’ Friday episode will feature an in-depth look the strained relationship. The episode will also explore the drama between ex-BFFs Paris Hilton and Nicole Richie. Watch an exclusive sneak peek of the episode above.
Us Weekly's Famous Feuds airs on REELZ Fridays at 9 p.m. ET. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Guys trip! James Corden was joined by famed musical group the Foo Fighters for a head-banging edition of The Late Late Show’s signature series “Carpool Karaoke” on Wednesday, September 20.
Group members Dave Grohl, Taylor Hawkins, Pat Smear, Chris Shiflett, Nate Mendel, Rami Jaffee, William Goldsmith and Franz Stahl all packed into a van along with the 39-year-old late-night host to sing a section of the band’s greatest hits including “All My Life,” “Best Of You” and “Learn To Fly.”
The rockstars, who this week released their ninth studio album, Concrete and Gold, also performed their new single, The Sky Is A Neighborhood, to which the lovable TV personality also sang along. The Brit looked at ease as he lent his vocal support and harmonized with the group’s drummer.
The 13-minute fun-filled clip even featured a moment of nostalgia as Grohl and Mendel recalled the first time they made music together.
"I remember the first time we jammed, I was playing through a karaoke machine in your living room,” Mendel recalled.
"Full circle!" Grohl exclaimed.
Toward the end of the segment, Corden and the performers made a pit stop at a guitar center where the host went on to have a drum-off with Hawkins and Grohl.
"I was wrong," Corden said. "Drumming is more than a feeling."
Before leaving the venue, the musicians and Corden covered Rick Astley‘s ‘Never Gonna Give You Up,’ much like their performance at The O2 in London on Tuesday, September 19.
Watch the clip above to see the the late night host belt out the Foo Fighters’ classic hits and more! 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


It’s all in the past! Corinne Olympios and DeMario Jackson were spotted during a night out together on Wednesday, September 20, as they headed to dinner at TAO in Hollywood.
The Bachelor in Paradise costars were all smiles outside of the restaurant and when photographers asked if they were dating, Olympios replied, “We’re friends.” She wore form-fitting black trousers, with a baby blue tank top and metallic heels, while Jackson wore a black T-shirt with Frank Ocean lyrics on it from the song “Nikes,” that read: “Said she need a ring like Carmelo.”
In the past few months, the pair have apologized to one another and moved onto having a friendship after the show’s scandal. The reality stars were photographed at SBE's Nightingale Plaza in Los Angeles on August 31, which was the first time they were seen together since the show’s production was halted over the summer. They seemed happy to see each other at the time, and they hugged and posed for some PDA-filled photos.
“We’re friends. We’re hanging out. He picked me up from the airport, we went to dinner. We’re cool. Really cool,” Olympios told ET on September 7, about their initial reunion. "It was really relieving. A lot of my unanswered questions were really answered. There were just a lot of questions I had about why he ran to the press so fast, I was like, ‘We could’ve handled this totally privately.’”
As Us Weekly previously reported, a Bachelor in Paradise producer filed a complaint of alleged sexual misconduct on set in June, after witnessing the pair getting hot and heavy. Olympios told Good Morning America at the time that she had no recollection of the incident after she unintentionally blacked out from a combination of alcohol and medication. Both stars opted not to return to complete the season after a full investigation by Warner Bros. found no evidence of misconduct by any party.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Strike a pose! With more than 4 million Instagram followers, Victoria’s Secret model Josephine Skriver knows a thing or two about snapping a perfect selfie. Luckily, she showed Us Weekly her three tips on how to pull it off. Watch the video above!
kissed by the sun ☀️
A post shared by Josephine Skriver (@josephineskriver) on Jul 6, 2017 at 8:43am PDT
Skriver, 24, admits that cleanliness is key when it comes to your iPhone photos.
“As a girl, most of us wear makeup, most of us have hairspray, so always clear the lens,” Skriver tells Us Weekly. “Just clear it off because nothing is bigger than my pet peeve of a foggy lens.”
The runway model says you also have to find the right light and “you want to feel the light on your face” and “step into the shadows so it bounces off of you.”
secrets, secrets, secrets 🙊
A post shared by Josephine Skriver (@josephineskriver) on Aug 30, 2017 at 6:17am PDT
Once your lens is clear and your light is just right, make sure you snap your picture from above to get your supermodel selfie.
“Anything from above makes your face more narrow, cheekbones more popping and eyes bigger,” Skriver explains. “Then you try your angle to what you like.”
Skriver will have to get her selfies ready for Shanghai where she will be walking in the upcoming 2017 Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show.
“It’s one of the most diverse shows we've ever done,” Skriver tells Us Weekly. “It’s really cool to be with girls all over the world just to hear their stories and really learn a lot about other people's cultures.”
However, before she hits the runway, the model will be hard at work helping to launch Victoria’s Secret’s new fall fragrance, Love.
“The first time I smelt it, it brought me back to my first kiss,” Skriver explains. “I was in Copenhagen in the fall and it was right before sunrise and you know that crisp air in the morning before the whole world wakes up, it kind of has that.”
To find out Skriver’s workout secrets and how she describes her own personal style, watch the video above!


Love and basketball. For the past 10 years, viewers have had a close look at the Kardashians’ love lives on their hit reality show Keeping Up With the Kardashians on E!. In a new exclusive clip from the Keeping Up With the Kardashians Ten Year Anniversary Special, Khloe Kardashian told the adorable story of how she met her current boyfriend, Tristan Thompson.
In the sneak peek for the Ryan Seacrest-hosted special, the sisters sat down with him to talk about living in front of the cameras for the past decade. Seacrest asked Khloe, 33, about her love life and what attracted her to the kind of guys she has dated throughout her time on the show.
“Is basketball something that you are attracted to? Is there something about basketball players? I don’t want to say you have a type, but you kind of have a type,” Seacrest said.
“I mean, I don’t know what that is but I was put on a blind date with Tristan. That’s how I met Tristan,” the Good American owner revealed. Her mother Kris Jenner and sister Kim Kardashian seemed to be surprised at her reply, and Jenner asked, “Really? Who set you up?”
“Brandon Jennings, who is a basketball player, he is a friend of mine and Malika [Haqq]’s, and he was like, ‘You’re such a good girl, I want to introduce you to someone,’” the Strong Looks Better Naked author said.
❥ իմ սեր ❥ Im ser ❥ All my Love ❥
A post shared by Khloé (@khloekardashian) on Aug 6, 2017 at 1:17pm PDT
Jennings played wingman and brought his friend Tristan along one day, and the pair hit it off automatically. “I was at the Bel-Air Hotel. He came to the dinner. I didn’t want to go on a blind date,” the reality star revealed. “So Brandon kind of ambushed the blind date. So I had a bunch of people, and he brought him and we just connected.”
“It’s a serious relationship,” Khloe said about her romance with the Cleveland Cavaliers player. Her older sister Kourtney then stepped in and confessed that the relationship’s seriousness level is a five out of six.
Kardashian was previously married to NBA star Lamar Odom and also dated Houston Rockets player James Harden after meeting him in 2015.
Catch the Keeping Up with the Kardashians 10 Year Anniversary Special on Sunday, Sept. 24 at 9 p.m. and the season 14 premiere of KUWTK on Sunday, Oct. 1 at 9 p.m. on E!.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Not having it. Jimmy Kimmel is slamming the Republican health care bill again and this time, he is defending himself against those that are dismissing his criticisms because he’s a comedian. The Jimmy Kimmel Live! host used his monologue at the beginning of the show on Wednesday, September 20, to respond to Senator Bill Cassidy, Senator Lindsey Graham, Governor Chris Christie and Fox & Friends’ Brian Kilmeade, after they reacted to his comments from earlier this week on the Graham-Cassidy health care bill.
Kimmel stated on the late-night show on Tuesday, September 19, that the Louisiana senator had “lied” right to his face and “wasn’t very honest,” which caused a reaction from several people. “I’m sorry, he doesn’t understand,” Cassidy said in an interview about the host the day after the Tuesday night show.
“Oh, I get it. I don’t understand because I’m a talk show host,” Kimmel fired back on Wednesday. “Then help me out, which part don’t I understand? Is it the part where you cut $243 billion from federal health care assistance? Am I not understanding the part where states would be allowed to let insurance companies price you out of coverage for having preexisting conditions?”
He then listed a list of health organizations that also oppose the bill, saying, “Which part of that am I not understanding? Or could it be, Senator Cassidy, that the problem is that I do understand and you got caught with you GOPenis out? Is that possible?”
Cassidy made an appearance on the show back in May, and told Kimmel that he was going to have a health care system that was up to the TV host’s standards and would meet the “Kimmel Test.” The senator later introduced an Obamacare repeal bill with cosponsor Senator Lindsey Graham, that Kimmel, 49, did not approve of.
Kilmeade criticized the late-night host on his show Fox & Friends, saying, Kimmel was “pushing” his politics on the rest of the country. Kimmel reacted to that jab by saying that whenever he sees Kilmeade, the Fox anchor kisses his a-- “like a little boy meeting Batman.” Christie said he also disagreed with Kimmel but dismissed his comments against the GOP, saying he is “not a serious person” to which the host said, “I’m not a serious person? I never got my head stuck in a bucket of chicken!”
Kimmel revealed in May, just days before sitting down with Cassidy, that his now 4-month-old son Billy underwent heart surgery shortly after he was born on April 21. He went on to praise the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, for bringing access to health care to people who can't afford it.
The TV host revealed that his son’s condition is the reason why he is so vocal about his belief that people with pre-existing conditions should have access to healthcare.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Let the games begin! Arie Luyendyk Jr. returned to the Bachelor mansion on Wednesday, September 20, to begin filming season 22 of the ABC reality dating series.
Franchise creator Mike Fleiss gave fans a first glimpse of the professional race car driver, 35, looking dapper in a classic black suit during his first night on set. "Guess who's back? Back again. Arie's back. Tell a friend. #TheBachelor #JanuArie," the producer tweeted alongside a photo of Bachelor host Chris Harrison, Luyendyk Jr., ABC executive Robert Mills and himself.
In a follow-up tweet, Fleiss promised that the upcoming season includes a "fantastic group of women," adding that Luyendyk Jr. "has got some tough choices to make" during the first rose ceremony.
Guess who's back? Back again. Arie's back. Tell a friend. #TheBachelor #JanuArie pic.twitter.com/XaooVeuZ6U
Fantastic group of women. @ariejr has got some tough choices to make tonite... #thebachelor
Fans of Bachelorette season 13 runner-up Peter Kraus, who was rumored to be in the running to lead season 22 of The Bachelor, continued to voice their divided opinions in response to Fleiss' tweets. "I bet the girls were pissed to find Not Peter as the bachelor," one disappointed viewer wrote. Another quipped, "What's the return policy?"
However, Kraus, 32, doesn't have any hard feelings toward ABC or Luyendyk Jr. He thanked the network for treating him "with such love and kindness" in a recent Instagram post, which he concluded with a valuable lesson he learned during his time on The Bachelorette: "When you let uncertainty or fear guide your decisions, you risk missing out on what could potentially be the greatest opportunity of a life time. So live dangerously, live without the fear of the unknown, and continue to live and love with a heart that is truly open to anything."
The Bachelor returns to ABC in January 2018.
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Tissues, please! Darci Lynne Farmer — like the rest of her family — broke down in tears after she was crowned the season 12 winner of America's Got Talent on Wednesday, September 20.
"I was so overcome with joy, and I was kind of shocked and delirious at that time so I can't remember anything," the 12-year-old told Us Weekly and other reporters following the finale.
"It was waterworks right here on this face," she added. "I was like a water faucet."
Farmer impressed the judges — Simon Cowell, Mel B, Heidi Klum and Howie Mendel — with her ventriloquist skills, which she mixed with comedy and singing.
Farmer was joined by her loved ones on stage after she scored the $1 million prize. "I felt so loved during my AGT journey by all the contestants, and all the staff, my friends and family, and everyone, it just all came out," she said of her emotional reaction.
As for what she will buy with all that money? "I want a pug so bad because I love puppies," she said. "It has been a long time since I had a puppy. I want a pug because they have wrinkles and fat rolls and they are so cute."
Many were rooting for Farmer to win — including Cowell. "I followed what America was saying, trust me. I said about to five people last night you could win. I covered myself. But I do believe with Darci, when I watched it back, she was the one I would say who brought something so few people could do, let alone at that age," he said on Wednesday night.
He continued: "Over the previous years, we’ve had young kids win the show before, and we’ve had a lot of young kids who don’t win the show. It all depends. The public who vote watch this show, they’re not stupid. They know who the talent is. I always say about those shows, you can’t put rules around it. You just say if it’s talent, anyone can enter."
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Cheryl Burke is taking some encores. Back on ABC’s Dancing With the Stars (Mondays, 8 p.m.), she’s also reliving her days as a studio owner, replacing now-incarcerated Abby Lee Miller as teacher and choreographer on Lifetime’s Dance Moms (Tuesdays, 9 p.m.). 
Even more, she’s rekindled her 10-year-old romance with actor Matthew Lawrence. It’s the latter that makes the rest possible. “It’s just so important to have someone that just listens to you and tells you, ‘No matter what we’re gonna get through this.'" The San Francisco native takes Us for a spin.
Us: So you’re gunning for your third mirrorball!
CB: It’s my 20th season, so it was a great time to return and my partner is awesome: Terrell Owens. I always love being able to dance with athletes because they just know how to be coached. Football players can actually move pretty fast on their feet.
Us: You’re also coaching the girls from Dance Moms.
CB I had just had a meeting with the executive producers and the weekend after, one called my manager and was like, “Abby walked out and Cheryl would be the perfect replacement.” 
Us: What made you say yes?
CB I love working with kids. I know the goal and how to reach it. They all want to make it in this business and I wanted to tell them that the transition from dancer to the Hollywood spotlight is not easy.
Us: How was it stepping in?
CB It was tough, there were a lot of tears, anger and insecurity. It was shocking to me. I couldn’t believe these beautiful girls that have zero confidence. That’s not the way to live life.
Us: Do you think that’s because of Abby?
CB They said they’d been traumatized by Abby and her teaching methods. That’s a shame because with teenagers it’s so important to mentor them. 
Us: So you’re the good cop?
CB I’m not a yeller. But I am strict. I tell it how it is, especially with the mothers because I come from the original dance mom. She was hard on me, but in the right way.
Us: Did you share your struggles?
CB One hundred percent. I had people body-shaming me when I gained a lot of weight and as a teenager, your body is going to change. To get through it, you need to have great family and friends.
Us: Like Matt, perhaps. How did you reconnect?
CB Ten years ago, it was the wrong timing. Since, we never ran into each other once, but a mutual friend was like, “Oh, Matt says hi.” Then it was an easy text over Christmas and we haven’t stopped seeing each other since. It’s like we never missed a day. It just feels so right.
Us: Thinking marriage?
CB I would love that! We talked about it, so whenever the time is right. Hopefully sooner than later! 
Dancing With The Stars airs Mondays at 8 p.m. on ABC.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!


Mindy Kaling said goodbye to her show, The Mindy Project, on Wednesday, September 20, after filming wrapped on the sixth and final season of the comedy series.
“Last day,” Kaling, 38, wrote alongside a photo of herself in character as Mindy Lahiri sitting in her office. Following the emotional post, the actress shared a few behind-the-scenes photos of filming from season 1 of the show, which originally aired on Fox before getting picked up by Hulu after three seasons.
Last day.
A post shared by Mindy Kaling (@mindykaling) on Sep 20, 2017 at 8:06am PDT
Kaling, who is currently pregnant with her first child, recently revealed that the show’s final season will touch on the struggles of being a mother. During a panel at the Television Critics Association’s summer press tour,  executive producer Matt Warburton gave details about the plot line. "I think she’s going to learn a little bit more about how to be a good, involved parent,” he said. "We have a really funny episode where Julie Bowen plays a rival mother who thinks that Mindy’s not doing that great of a job.”
Kaling added: [It's] a little bit about mom-shaming and that’s cool. [A] lot those juicy ripped-from-the-blogger-headline storylines.”
The actress also opened up about her pregnancy on the Today show’s September 10 episode. "It’s so unknown to me,” she said at the time. "I have a lot of control over a lot of aspects of my life, and this is one where I’m like, ‘OK, it’s out of my hands,’ which is kind of a fun feeling."
Aside from wrapping up the beloved series, Kaling will also star in the forthcoming Ocean’s Eight film alongside Sandra Bullock, Anne Hathaway, Rihanna, Cate Blanchett, Sarah Paulson and more. “With that group of women, I’ve never felt so unfamous in my life,” Kaling said during a December 2016 appearance on Late Night With Seth Meyers. "Like, I thought I was pretty cool. I have my own show. People think I’m Sandra Bullock’s assistant and they’re like, ‘Get out of the way! We need to bring Sandra her matcha tea.’ I’m like, ‘I’m in a scene with her. I’m not her assistant.’ Then I’m like, ‘OK! Whatever. I’ll give her her matcha tea. Might as well.’"
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


The old Taylor is alive and well. In a hilarious behind-the-scenes clip for the filming of the “Look What You Made Me Do” video, Taylor Swift came face-to-face with all her former selves — and they had a great time. The video was released on Wednesday, September 20, and it focuses on the scene where the “Shake It Off” singer is on top of "Taylor Mountain" as old versions of herself are trying to climb to the top.
“Okay, this is trippiest thing I’ve ever seen in my life,” Swift, 27, says as she walks onto the set and sees the actors who are playing her.
“Seeing all of them together is the weirdest feeling, but it’s awesome,” she tells the camera about meeting her doppelgangers. “It’s exciting. It’s like, ‘Oh, that’s a phase I went through when I was 16, but like, a girl is wearing it who looks just like me.”
Swift introduced herself to her body doubles, who were wearing iconic outfits the singer has worn throughout her career on red carpets, album covers and in music videos. “We’re having a great time. We’re all just chatting about life. That’s gotta look weird,” she added.
“We’re all, like, creating this pile of people who are trying to get to the top. All of whom happen to be my former selves, which these girls are so wonderful to like, do that,” she said.
Swift also changed into the outfits herself to shoot close-up shots, one in particular where two different versions of herself fight each other, and the video's director Joseph Kahn tells her, “You’re doing a bang up job playing yourself!”
The video for the singer’s first single off her upcoming Reputation album was released on August 27 and has already racked up more than 420 million views on YouTube.
Watch the behind-the-scenes clip to see exactly how the "Taylor Mountain" scene in the “LWYMMD” video was filmed above. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Is she back? Phaedra Parks parted ways with The Real Housewives of Atlanta after the shocking reunion episode that aired on May 7, but a source has confirmed to Us Weekly that reports that she is asking to come back for season 10 of Bravo’s hit show are false.
A source told Us that the rumors are “not true" and also confirmed that she hasn’t filmed anything for the tenth season — so far.
“Phaedra has been talking to some of the women of RHOA again but has not filmed any scenes so far,” another source told Us. “They are still filming so anything could happen and there is room for a cameo but she has not returned and obviously still isn’t part of the cast.”
Bravo premiered the new trailer for the upcoming season on Tuesday, September 19, and Parks is noticeably absent from the clips. In one scene, Kim Zolciak and Porsha Williams are holding hands and Williams asks her, “Are you my new Frack?” since Williams and Parks used to be referred to as "Frick and Frack."
As Us Weekly previously reported, the 43-year-old attorney wasn't asked to return after starring on seven seasons of the hit reality show. “Phaedra is not coming back as of now,” a source told Us in May. “Bravo is not planning to ask her back.”
Andy Cohen recently opened up about Parks’ exit from the series, saying that her departure was the result of her being caught in a “megawatt lie” during the reunion. 
"The question that we look at now with Phaedra is, when the reunion ended, none of the other women wanted to have anything to do with her. So that's what you have to look at," Cohen told E! in May. "How do you shoot a show about a group of friends when no one is speaking to one of the friends?"
Costar Sheree Whitfield also told Us Weekly in May that it’s unlikely the women will forgive Parks for spreading a rumor that fellow castmate, Kandi Burruss, and her husband, Todd Tucker, were planning to drug Porsha Williams and take her home.
“I don't know, it's so hard right now. It's hard to establish trust with someone like that because, for me, it seemed that she showed no remorse for what she did and for her actions,” Whitfield told Us. “I think it will be hard for any of the women to forgive.”
“I never want to take money out of anyone's pockets and that's not who I am, but in this instance, it's hard to say,” the reality star added.
RHOA returns to Bravo for season 10 on Sunday, November 5 at 8 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


They are making their grand return! James Cameron revealed that both Arnold Schwarzenegger and Linda Hamilton will be returning to The Terminator franchise — and it’s a long time coming.
“As meaningful as she was to gender and action stars everywhere back then, it’s going to make a huge statement to have that seasoned carrier that she’s become return,” Cameron, 63, told The Hollywood Reporter on Tuesday, September 19, of Hamilton’s iconic role as Sarah Connor. “There are 50-year-old, 60-year-old guys out there killing bad guys, but there isn’t an example of that for women.”
Franchise alum Schwarzenegger is also set to star in the forthcoming sixth Terminator installment, which will serve as a sequel to 1991’s Terminator 2: Judgement Day.
Cameron, who has not been involved in the franchise since Judgement Day, also announced his plan to introduce several new younger characters to his futuristic world of robots and machines.
“We’re starting a search for an 18-something woman to be the new centerpiece for the story,” the Titanic director continued. “We still fold time. We will have characters from the future and the present. There will be mostly new characters, but we’ll have Arnold and Linda’s characters to anchor it.”
The Oscar winner recently spoke out about the importance of Hamilton’s character. “Sarah Connor was not a beauty icon. She was strong, she was troubled, she was a terrible mother and she earned the respect of the audience through pure grit,” the Avatar director told The Guardian in August. “And to me, [the benefit of characters like Sarah] is so obvious. I mean, half the audience is female.”
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Watch Alicia Vikander Kick Ass in First 'Tomb Raider' Trailer (Men's Fitness)
Kourtney Kardashian Shows Off Her Killer Body in Metallic Dress (Star Magazine)
Celebrities Take NYFW By Storm: Photos (OK! Magazine)
Jenna Dewan Tatum Has Never Looked Hotter (RADAR Online)
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Sterling K. Brown's acceptance speech at the 2017 Emmy Awards on Sunday, September 17, was unceremoniously cut short due to the broadcast's time constraints. Now, NBC has given him a chance to finish.
The network took out a full-page ad in the latest issue of The Hollywood Reporter to allow the actor, 41, to share his powerful message in its entirety. While accepting the award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series for his role on This Is Us, Brown tried to fight through the pesky music to no avail. He even called out the show's producers before exiting the stage, saying, "No one else got that loud music."
Later in the evening, Brown — who made history as the first black actor to win in the category since Homicide: Life on the Street's Andre Braugher in 1998 — was given a chance to finish his speech backstage in the press room.
The People v. O.J. Simpson: American Crime Story actor's This Is Us costars weren't too thrilled about him being cut off either. "I think it's unfortunate," Chrissy Metz told Us at the Fox afterparty. Susan Kelechi Watson, Sterling's onscreen wife, added, "The thing about Sterling is that whether the time runs out or not, the brotha has something to say and he's gonna say it. So he took his space and he took his time and I love it."
Read Brown's full speech below!
Before anything like this happened for your boy, I was a fan. First, last and always, a fan. So, my fellow nominees — I'm a fan. I love y'all. This one right here, like, this one right here, when I think about it ... like, Walter White held this joint! Dick Whitman held this joint! I may have lost some of y'all, but, you know, Google it. And 19 years ago, Detective Frank Pembleton held this joint, as impeccably played by Andre Braugher. I just want to say, Mr. Braugher, whether it's at Stanford University or on this Emmy stage, it is my supreme honor to follow in your footsteps.
I want to thank Bob Greenblatt, Jennifer Salke at NBC for your support from the beginning. I want to thank Dana Walden and Gary Newman and everyone at 20th Century Fox for keeping a brother gainfully employed. I appreciate that. I want to thank my cast — Milo, Mandy, Justin, Chrissy — you are the best white TV family that a brother has ever had; better than Mr. Drummond, better than them white folks that raised Webster. I love you. Susan Kelechi Watson, it is my pleasure to rep black love with you, sister. Let's keep doing it like Martin and Gina. Ron Cephas Jones, you just have to show up and the work is already there, brother. Thank you so much for embodying the presence which is never an absence. I love you.
I wanted to thank our writers. A show doesn't get seven acting nominations without some impeccable, beautiful, thoughtful writing. You guys are our life's blood, so I want to thank you so much. To our producers and directors, in particular, John Requa, Glenn Ficarra and the crazy cool Ken Olin. I thank you for your guidance and friendship. And I wanted to thank Dan Fogelman — he is the Hebrew hammer with which our house is built. He makes me laugh and cry in equal parts and keeps me coming back for me, and in his own little small special way he's not trying to make America great again, he's trying to make it the best that it's ever been, and I love him for taking me on this journey with him. I wanted to thank my manager of 17 years, Jennifer Wiley-Stockton. We've been doing this for a long time, and it feels like we're just getting started. I can't wait to see what's next.
And to my wife — they cut me off before I got to thank my wife, man! Ryan Michelle Bathe, you're everything. You make my life worth living and you gave me two of the most beautiful things that God has ever put on this planet: my sons. Andrew John Sterling Brown, Amaré Michael Ryan Christian Brown, your daddy loves you with the strength of 1,000 suns. I'll see you Monday after work. Love you. Thank you.
This Is Us returns to NBC on Tuesday, September 26, at 9 p.m. ET.
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Bellamy Young is upset that Scandal is coming to an end — just like the rest of Us. The actress, who plays Mellie Grant on the ABC political drama, that she’s actually spoken to her therapist about the season 7 series finale.
“I'm already in therapy,” Young, 47, exclusively told Us at the National Women’s History Museum’s 6th Annual Women Making History Awards in Beverly Hills on Saturday, September 16. “It's a big transition.”
The Shonda Rhimes-created show will kick off its final episodes next month. Young says the cast is “technically” on episode 5 right now and they are “trying to really savor every moment.”
“We’re sad,” she told Us. “We always have fun, there's a lot of laughing, bantering, and this year it was just a poignancy to it. So we just dig in deep and look into each other’s eyes and know, ‘Oh this is the last time that we’ll get to do this.’”
“We get teary at every table read,” she continued. “It just moves the ball one yard closer to the field goal. It's getting incrementally closer to being over. But you also wrap up sets, you tie up storylines, and there are all a thousand little goodbyes.”
As for what’s to come for Mellie and Kerry Washington’s Olivia Pope? “I just love the two of them in power together. Because I feel like that's really what the story is. I love that there's so much about where Olivia's mind is that Mellie has no idea. So there's a lot of room for disaster but there's also a lot of room for sisterhood and triumph,” she said. “I think Mellie was born to be president. She is going to be a great president. It’s just what obstacles Shonda decides to throw in her path.”
Scandal returns on Thursday, October 5, on ABC at 9 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Jorge would be proud! Forget the love triangles and scallop fingers — the biggest OMG moment from Bachelor in Paradise this season went to Wells Adams and Danielle Maltby.
The good friends, who once went on a date years ago, shared a surprising kiss during season 4. Wells, who was the bartender this time around, wanted the fellow Nashville resident to experience some romance before she went home. The sweet gesture, however, just left viewers wanting more.
“I think it’s very flattering that people are so interested in our little relationship considering it was 15 seconds really at the end of an episode, before [she went] to Africa,” Adams exclusively told Us Weekly at the 7th annual American Humane Hero Dog Awards in Beverly Hills on Saturday, September 16. “I think ABC did a good job of compounding the interest by not addressing it at the after-show.”
The pair have known each other since 2010. Since the season wrapped, they’ve been featured on each other’s social media accounts, but have remained coy about what the future may hold.
“We are just friends right now,” the radio DJ added to Us. “If things progress romantically, we’re going to take our time with that and not worry about the show or Twitter or anything like that trying to make us something that we’re not ready to be.”
What’s surprised Adams the most is how many people were hoping for such an intimate moment between them.
“I knew always I wanted to make out with her because she’s gorgeous and awesome, and one of my friends. But she’s not part of my friend group, she’s part of my inner circle of friends. So in Nashville I think it was just too weird. But when we were there, I was like this might be my shot to see if I lay one on her. It was a long time coming for me,” he said. “Then afterwards, she kind of echoed the same thing. I didn’t realize at the time everyone was like, ‘This is totally a Jim and Pam situation’ [from The Office]. They were all rooting for it. I had no idea at all.”
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.



Jimmy Kimmel slammed the Republican health care bill and Louisiana Senator Bill Cassidy during his late-night show on Tuesday, September 19.
Cassidy appeared on the ABC show in May, at the time telling Kimmel, 49, that he was going to have a health care system that met the "Kimmel Test," but later introduced an Obamacare repeal bill.
Kimmel skewered Cassidy on Tuesday, stating that the senator "lied right" to his face and "wasn't very honest."
"He got a lot of credit and attention for coming off like a rare, reasonable voice in the Republican Party when it came to healthcare, for something that he called the Jimmy Kimmel test," he said.
Days before sitting down with Cassidy, Kimmel revealed that his now 4-month-old son Billy underwent heart surgery shortly after he was born on April 21. He went on to praise the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, for bringing access to health care to people who can't afford it.
"Before you post a nasty Facebook message saying I’m politicizing my son’s health problems, I want you to know: I am politicizing my son’s health problems because I have to," Kimmel said on Tuesday night. "My family has health insurance we don’t have to worry about this, but other people do. So, you can shove your disgusting comments where your doctor won’t be giving you a prostate exam once they take your health care benefits away."
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Devon Sawa appeared in a string of beloved coming-of-age movies, starred in a hit thriller and was a '90s teen heartthrob, but at the age of 25 he decided to  say goodbye to Hollywood. The actor opened up about his decision to leave — and what drew him back — in an exclusive interview with Us Weekly.
"At 25 years old I stepped away from the business for five years and most of the time didn't know whether I was going to come back or not," Sawa, 39, tells Us. "I had done a series of four or five indie movies that I wasn't necessarily proud of. Some were horror movies. After Final Destination everybody wanted me to do horror movies and some weren't as good as others. I was just burnt out."
Sawa had been working since he was 11 — and he only returned by chance. "I was brought back into the business by accident. Somebody at my agency didn't get the memo that I quit and sent me an audition and I put myself on tape and that was it," the Casper star explains to Us. "I didn't get it. It was for the Max Payne movie with Mark Wahlberg. But I did really well and the casting director wanted to meet me and I did. I thought, 'You know what, this is what I love. This is what I really want to do.' So I don't know why I stepped away in the first place."
He adds: “I think if somebody hadn't had sent me that audition I think that I may still be out of it. I was happy what I was doing but I'm happier now. I'm happier back doing what I really love.”
And right now, Dawa is focused on the ABC drama Somewhere Between, which also stars Paula Patton. He plays Nico Jackson, a former cop turned private investigator who is given the chance to go back and change a tragic event in his life.
“The writing drew me to it. I read the first script and I was looking for something different. I was just about to go into pilot season and do that whole craziness. This came out before it and I read it and the last few pages of the first script I was hooked. It was that thing I was looking for. The show with the cliffhangers that keep you on your toes,” Sawa tells Us. “This particular role I spent a lot of time with the dialogue. I went to Vancouver and walked by myself looking like a complete nut ball [getting into character]. That was kind of the process.”
For more, read the rest of his Q&A below:
US: What was it like working with Paula?
DS: Great! She's very dedicated to the role. From the day I met her she had a million ideas and she liked to discuss things and she really got into it. She had her headphones on in-between scenes. She was emotionally there and she was very interesting to work with. She's fun.
US: Do you strategically try to take roles that are different than what people are used to seeing you in?
DS: Yea, I take roles now that I just want to do. I don't really think about where they are going to take me. I just want to do stuff that I want to do. I just got a movie that I'm going to start shooting in a couple of weeks that I can't really talk about but I'm giddy because if I told myself at 12 years old that I was going to do this movie I would have lost my shit. Lost my mind. I have a huge fight scene with one of my childhood idol. It's going to be amazing.
US: What's a well-known role that you went for but didn't get?
DS: The Tobey Maguire Spider-Man. I met with Sam Raimi and I was one of the last few guys and of course Tobey got it and was phenomenal in it. I would have loved to have gotten that. I think that's the biggest one.
US: What are three must-haves you need in your trailer?
DS: I'm not that guy! I just need a place that's a little quiet before I go in and other than that I don't have anything that I need. I'm not the Skittles with no red in a bowl or sparkling water kind of guy.
Somewhere Between airs Tuesdays on ABC at 10 p.m. ET. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Back to the beginning. The Kardashian clan epically recreated the first Keeping Up With the Kardashians opening credits for their 10th anniversary season.
“No matter how far they go, they never go alone,” flashes across the screen in crisp white letters as the reality family matriarch, Kris Jenner, takes a helicopter ride over Los Angeles. “Keep it Kardashian.”
The camera then pans over Kourtney, who is lounging poolside in a sexy pink bikini and metallic silver frames.
Next, Khloe flaunts her fit physique while working on her fitness in the gym.
Flash forward to Kendall, whose prepping for a runway fashion show.
Elsewhere, Kylie zooms off in an orange Lamborghini after receiving a speeding ticket.
The E! personalities finally reunite on a building grass top, a nod to their first season’s intro. “OK guys, here we go,” Kris says while placing her daughters. “Where’s Kim?”
In the legendary 2007 opener, the Selfish author, 36, is fashionably late to the family photo shoot. So where is the social media mogul? Having a pre-shoot glam session of course!
Fans then see the KKW beauty founder being personally styled in a rhinestoned bodysuit.
“Mom, she’s always late,” Khloe explains, just as she did in the original intro. “No, I’m here!” Kim announces as she prances to her family and poses front and center. Kylie then lets go of the backdrop, and low and behold, the clan is standing right in front of their former Hidden Hills pad where the show began. The OG jingle plays in the background as Kris declares, “And we’re done! Bye everybody.”
Keeping Up With the Kardashian season 14 premieres on E! on Sunday, October 1, at 9 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


How rude! Chances are slim that Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen will (finally) make a surprise cameo on Netflix's Fuller House. Full House creator Jeff Franklin exclusively told Us Weekly that he's stopped bringing up the topic to the famous twins.
"I’ve stopped asking, really I kind of gave up," he told Us at the show's Paleyfest panel in Beverly Hills. "But when somebody rings a doorbell, the girls yell, 'It’s always open!' on the show so that’s kind of how we feel about the Olsen twins. The door is open."
"But I think we’ve gotten enough no's," he continued. "We’re kind of done asking. But who knows? You never know in life. Who thought this whole thing would happen?"
Fuller House stars Candace Cameron Bure, Jodie Sweetin and Andrea Barber. Its third season is set to premiere on Friday, September 22, just days after the cast celebrated the original show's 30th anniversary.
"It's pretty crazy. It’s pretty special really," Franklin told Us of the milestone. "I’m having a lot of fun with these people that I love so much. And to get to work with them again is ridiculous and it’s a whole new thing because they were all little kids when we worked together the first time. And now they are amazing women. It’s pretty cool. I feel like I raised them, even though I know I didn’t, I know that I did. I wrote enough dad lectures for them. I’m going to hang onto that."
"They [got a lot of hugs from Danny Tanner]," he added. "They got a lot of hugs from me too."
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


That face, though! Big Brother's Kevin Schlehuber has finally explained the origin of his funny mirror expressions. During the CBS series, fans would often watch the 56-year-old Boston native pose and even comb his hair with his tooth brush!
"The face in the mirror is from the 70s and a joke, and my brothers would make fun of me," he exclusively tells Us Weekly. "In the 70s I would have a hairbrush all the time, we had longer hair then. I would make faces in the mirror. Now they call it selfies. I was before that."
"I would joke with Josh [Martinez] about it," he adds of his former houseguest. "It’s not something I try to hide. With my routine, I didn’t sleep much. I would try to just figure out what was happening that day, be prepared, have fun and enjoy myself. I missed my family a lot. But I hope I did the best I could."
Despite getting evicted, Schlehuber landed in the final four — and even snagged $25,000 in the first temptation competition of the season. He sometimes fought with Martinez and Alex Ow, but he did create a special bond with Ramses Soto. In fact, the 21-year-old still plans on accepting Schlehuber's invitation to Thanksgiving dinner.
"He don’t have to bring nothing. He’s only 21. He can come to my house, have fun. My kids will take him to the mall. He’ll have fun," the stay-at-home dad tells Us. "He’ll get to know the kind of person I am, see a big family, and enjoy himself. I invited Josh, Paul [Abrahamian], Mark [Jansen], anyone who wants to come. I have a big family, family is a big deal. He can bring the bottle of wine I told him was in storage that was never there! He can bring wine and I’ll do everything else."
For more, read the rest of his Q&A below:
US: If you won Head of Household who would you have put up?
KS: I would have put up Cody because he was such a strong player, and Alex for the same reason. It’s a respect thing, it’s not a dislike. They were the best players and you want to take them out. Only out of respect.
US: What is your biggest regret in the house?
KS: Trusting some people. I trusted Matt in the pool, I felt bad, I thought he was leaving, I told him I won the money and he turned on me. I wouldn’t have done that. My argument with Josh was about the same thing. I should have said nothing to nobody. That’s why I took the chalice temptation, if I won that, I could say why would I take $27 if I won’t $25,000. I was basically on my own, and I think I did well.
US: Do you think the cast will be mad at you for taking the $25,000?
KS: I don’t think anyone would be mad. We didn’t know what was going on. It was a temptation. It brought Paul in, which was entertaining. I didn’t know I won initially, they had to tell me. Ii don’t think anyone would be upset when they find out. It’s a game. I was surprised I won.
Big Brother’s two-hour season finale airs on CBS on Wednesday, September 20, at 8 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Frankie Muniz revealed on the season 25 premiere of Dancing With the Stars on Monday, September 18, that he broke his back in an accident during his time as a professional race car driver.
"I had a crash and broke my back and injured my hands and ribs," the Malcolm in the Middle alum, 31, told his pro partner Witney Carson during rehearsals. Despite his previous injuries, Muniz and Carson, 23, earned one of the highest scores of the night — a 19 out of 30 — for their first dance, a foxtrot to Harry Styles' "Sign of the Times."
"It just felt so good to be done," Muniz told Us Weekly after the show. "I thought it went really well. I don't know. I'm so happy, I really am."
The Agent Cody Banks star also opened up to Us about how he's powering through his injuries in the ballroom. "I broke my ribs, I broke my back, ankle. I tore my meniscus two months ago. I'm a walking disaster," he quipped. "I'm taking this so seriously. I literally am dedicated to icing, sauna, whatever I can to heal so I'm ready for the next day."
Prior to Monday's premiere, Muniz questioned his dancing abilities. "I was literally such a nervous wreck," he told Us. "I can't even explain to you how bad it was. ... But I want to do well. I didn't know that I would love dancing as much as I do, but I do. I feel like I can improve so much with what [Carson] has taught me."
The actor received a boost of confidence from some of his former Malcom in the Middle costars, including his onscreen parents, Bryan Cranston and Jane Kaczmarek. "Everyone has been so supportive," Muniz told Us. "All my friends, cast members, everyone has been contacting me and saying they're rooting for me. So hopefully they vote! Hopefully Bryan and Jane are going to come out. It just depends on ... if we make it later [in the competition]. If people want to see them in the ballroom, they've got to vote for us!"
Dancing With the Stars airs on ABC Mondays at 8 p.m. ET.
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


All up in his business! Barbara Corcoran appeared to grab her Dancing With the Stars pro partner Keo Motsepe's crotch on the season 25 premiere on Monday, September 18.
Just before receiving their scores from judges Carrie Ann Inaba, Len Goodman and Bruno Tonioli, the Shark Tank star, 68, placed her left hand near the 27-year-old dancer's nether regions, where it visibly remained for at least 20 seconds. Many viewers took to social media to poke fun at the handsy moment, but Corcoran meant no harm.
"There was no crotch grab," she exclusively told Us Weekly after the show. "I just happened to land my hand on that very important part. And then I felt something in the way, and I moved away."
After all, Corcoran has been married to former FBI agent Bill Higgins for 28 years. The secret to their union? "Being open to new possibilities," she told Us.
Though Higgins was unable to attend the premiere to cheer on his wife, she joked that she doesn't want him to get in the way of her budding partnership with Motsepe. "I didn't want him to interfere in the relationship at the get-go," she quipped. "These things need time to blossom. ... I asked my husband to move to the guest room and I'm giving [Motsepe] comfortable accommodations."
The South Africa native was taken aback by the businesswoman's generosity, prompting her to take it one step further. "I'll do anything for Keo. All the things I used to do for my husband 22 years ago, I'm going to be doing to Keo now," she continued as Motsepe responded, "I'm going to start writing my list now."
Corcoran didn't have a problem with that. "Make your list, baby," she said. "Whatever you want. No limit. You want an Aston Martin? You want a home in Malibu? Rolex watches? Don't worry about it."
After all, the TV personality certainly isn't shy. While rehearsing last week for the DWTS premiere, she exclusively told Us, "I feel like I lose my virginity every day in practice. Again and again and again and again."
Dancing With the Stars airs on ABC Mondays at 8 p.m. ET.
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Dancing With the Stars kicked off its 25th season (yes, 25th!) with plenty of sparkle, shine and tears. On the Monday, September 18 episode, the new pack of Mirrorball hopefuls performed their first dances for the panel of three judges: Carrie Ann Inaba, Bruno Tonioli, and Len Goodman. Erin Andrews was back to conduct the post-performance interviews, and had her own stumbles along the way. Here’s how it all went down.
The Good
Vanessa Lachey decided to do the show because she spends all her time doing things for her husband (who is also competing) and her kids and she wanted something for herself. The judges loved her cha cha with partner Maksim Chmerkovskiy and awarded her a solid 21.
On their heels were Nikki Bella and Artem Chigvintsev, who performed a tango that ended with her body slamming him into the ground. Len praised their body contact but urged her to stop looking at the floor.
Malcolm in the Middle alum Frankie Muniz was all giggles while practicing with Witney Carson. Even though he grew up in show business, he’s clearly still shy and hoping that being on the show will help him come out of his shell. They brought some solid chemistry to their foxtrot that the judges adored and ended with a 19, which was pretty great considering what little confidence Frankie seemed to have in his dance skills.
Victoria Arlen is a former athlete-turned-journalist who was paralyzed for 10 years but can walk now – though she has zero feeling in her legs. Val Chmerkovskiy said she’s the closest thing he’s ever seen to a miracle and their cha cha wowed the judges and audience. Carrie Ann was in tears as she called it “one of the most joyous performances” she had ever seen. They too received a 19.
The Bad
Terrell Owens and Cheryl Burke performed the first dance of the season. T.O. said he’s here to show the world that he’s not as arrogant as he seems on the football field. Cheryl wants to prove that she still has it 20 seasons in. Their cha cha actually looked fine, but Len scolded Terrell for heel leads. Erin confused the comment as a good thing. The judges gave him a score of 15.
Next came Debbie Gibson and Alan Bersten. He was born in 1994, so he doesn’t really understand her whole ‘80s music queen vibe. He helped her practice through her pain from Lyme disease to perform a foxtrot that was well received by the judges and landed them a few points ahead of Terrell and Cheryl at 17.
The Needs Real Improvement
Property Brothers star Drew Scott hopes that being on the show will help get him ready to dance at his wedding. He and Emma Slater performed a foxtrot that had the judges pretty speechless – but not in a good way. Len politely said that he is a “fixer-upper” and the judges gave him a 16 (which actually seemed pretty generous).
Barbara Corcoran turns businesses to gold, but her salsa with Keo Motsepe didn’t shine the way they’d hoped. Barbara had fun with the routine, which involved dancing to a Ludacris song while money rained down on them. The judges gave them a 14.
The Best
Two clear stars of the night were Lindsay Arnold and Jordan Fisher. He’s fresh off a stint in Hamilton, which means he’s used to live performing (and live performing that involves dancing). Lindsay was psyched to have a partner who was her age for once, but she was probably even more psyched when she saw just how good Jordan was going to be. Their tango blew away the judges, who rewarded them with a 22, the highest score of the night.
Mark Ballas has returned after a year off from the show and is paired with electronic violinist Lindsey Stirling. It turns out, in addition to playing the violin, Lindsey can dance! Len admitted he’d expected her to be good at the lyrical dances, but said she’d blown him away with their “crisp” and “clean” cha cha. He declared it the dance of the night – but technically they tied with Jordan and Lindsay.
Everyone Else
Pretty Little Liars alum Sasha Pieterse decided to come on Dancing With the Stars to get in shape for her wedding. Her parents were professional ballroom dancers, but her dancing skills were obviously not at a pro-level (at least not yet!). Paired with Gleb Savchenko, she shimmied her way through a cha cha that the judges liked a lot. Carrie Ann said Sasha owned it and the judges gave her a score of 18.
Nick Lachey wants everyone to know that yes, he was in a boy band, but he was in 98 Degrees, and they were the “non-dancing boy band.” This means he cannot dance. Paired with Peta Murgatroyd, he struggled through a cha cha. Len complimented him on “going for it” and not holding back, but admitted the dance moves needed some work. They ended up with a solid 18 and then Erin shared a video interview from 2009 where he said he would never be on the show.
Former LA Laker Derek Fisher and his partner, Sharna Burgess, were determined to break the track record of basketball players on Dancing With the Stars. (ICYMI, they haven’t done very well.) Derek’s mom is a mega-fan of the show who freaked out when she found out he was going to be on it. Sharna and Derek performed a salsa that Bruno said needed better hip action. They ended up with a solid 18, though.
Tell Us: Which couple was your favorite tonight?
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Taken again! Jenelle Evans lost her custody case against her mom during the Monday, September 18, episode of Teen Mom 2. Briana DeJesus also found out her baby daddy Luis will miss the birth of their child. Oh, and Chelsea Houska’s daughter showed her love for her stepdad, Cole DeBoer, and dissed her father, Adam Lind. The MTV reality show was crazy this week — here’s our rundown of the 5 biggest moments from the episode.
Jenelle’s Mom Gets Permanent Custody
Jenelle lost her custody battle to Barbara Evans, but she did get solid visitation days with her son Jace. Barbara said the main reason is that Jace is “scared to death” of Jenelle’s fiancé, David Eason, who had some choice words to say about his mother-in-law to be.
“It takes one of the lowest, most selfish pieces of s--t in the world to do what she does. That’s why I hate her so f--king much,” David said.
Jenelle was obviously upset but tried to look on the bright side of having court-mandated visitation days. She also said her mom would not be invited to her wedding, and she’d make sure to have it on a weekend when she has Jace.
“I don’t consider her as my mom anymore,” Jenelle said. “She’s completely ruined our relationship.”
Briana’s Baby Daddy Will Miss the Birth!
As if Briana’s disastrous baby shower wasn’t stressful enough, her ex-boyfriend and future co-parent dropped yet another bomb on her. He was going to miss the birth of their child in order to go to school to be a truck driver. Briana was in shock but said if it’s what he has to do to care for their child then he should go for it.
“How are you a man and you can’t provide for your kid — how can you live with yourself?” Briana later told her family about her ex. She was also angry he waited until the end of her pregnancy to start going to school for truck driving in the first place, and rightfully so.
Leah Goes on a Date
Leah Messer decided to get on Bumble because she hadn’t gone on a date since her divorce from Jeremy Calvert. She was anxious at first because she has kids and didn’t want to bring a stranger into their lives, but they were pretty supportive of their mommy getting back out there.
“Go and get a boyfriend,” her daughter Addie said.
However, the date was painfully awkward. They barely talked and having the cameras there didn’t help.
“It was so awkward,” Leah said afterward with a laugh. “When you know, you know and that’s a no.”
When her suitor asked her for a second date, she said she’d text him. Jokingly, she told the producer she would be texting him no. At least she tried!
Chelsea’s Daughter Loves Her Stepdad
For Father’s Day, Chelsea’s daughter Aubree had to go to her real dad’s house and she wasn’t excited about it because all he does is “sleep.” Chelsea was upset too, because Cole loves hanging out with Aubree and was “bummed” she had to go to Adam’s house.
“If he’s just going to sleep and not do anything with you on Father’s Day then you should just come home because I know someone who’d love to something with you on Father’s Day,” Chelsea told her daughter.
Once Aubree came home, she showed her mom an “All About My Dad” worksheet she filled out at church. To Chelsea’s surprise, Aubree had filled out the paper about Cole, not Adam, and knew all of his favorite things. It was really heartwarming!
Kailyn Is Headed Back to Court
Kailyn Lowry’s ex Jo Rivera decided to serve her papers to fight for 50-50 custody of their son. She was really upset about it and thought he was doing it to prevent her from moving away from him.
“Seeing Jo was stressful but now I have to focus on my graduation,” Kailyn said. The mom-to-be is finally graduating and might have to move to find a job in her field. If that becomes the case, both of her exes will definitely freak out!
Tell Us: Do you think Barbara should have custody of Jenelle’s son?
Teen Mom 2 airs on MTV Mondays at 9 p.m. ET.
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly’s YouTube Page!


In life, there is one constant Chris Harrison can always guarantee Us: this will be the most dramatic season in Bachelor history.
At last, he came through on his promise. During season 4 of Bachelor in Paradise, production halted after a sexual misconduct claim, fan-favorite Amanda Stanton accused boyfriend Robby Hayes of cheating and could-have-been-the-next-Bachelor Dean Unglert lost his immortal status after simultaneously dating — and stringing along — Kristina Schulman and Danielle Lombard.
“Dean is the kind of person who changes his mind every couple of days, maybe even every couple of hours,” Lombard exclusively tells Us Weekly of his flip-flopping. “He doesn’t really know what he wants.”
At Mexico’s Playa Escondida resort, he began romancing Russia native Schulman, only to drop her for the L.A.-based Lombard … and then run back to Schulman. Then back to Lombard. Then Schulman again? (We lost track, too.) And though he finally cut ties with Schulman to pursue Lombard, he ultimately backed out of his choice, proclaiming his love for Schulman on the on the soapy spinoff’s September 11 finale. 
“When I heard that I was just like, ‘You know what? You still have a lot of stuff to figure out,’” the single stunner, dubbed “DLo,” explains. “We had talked about doing things in the future together and had made plans to hang out, so it was surprising he had changed his mind.”
Now, for the first time, the badass business owner shares her side of the dramatic journey with Us.
Us Weekly: Why did you decide to go on Paradise?
Danielle Lombard: The way the producers made it seem like there was greater opportunity to meet someone that you could have a relationship with outside of the show. I was honestly hesitant to do Paradise because of the stigma it has of it being like spring break and everyone is hooking up. But everyone I talked to that did the show, whether they had a great edit or not, said it was an incredible experience. 
Us: Were you already in Mexico when production halted?
DL: Yes, I was actually stuck in my hotel room for five days. It was pretty insane. I tried to do whatever I could to get out of the room and have some human interaction. The producers actually let me go to the gym and the spa, which was really nice. I would just spend hours there.
Us: How did they tell you about the situation?
DL: One of the executive producers said an incident occurred between two cast members and there was a complaint filed by a third party. Everything was very vague. I assumed maybe a stalker or a fan had gotten on set and caused a controversy. You wouldn’t guess that something like this would happen. People have hooked up on the show and it’s been filmed. We have to question the reason why producers felt it was necessary to file a claim for sexual misconduct.
I've always been criticized and ridiculed for my looks. Making me work ten times harder to prove that my success comes from my ethics and not my physical appearance. I've held several jobs at once, bought my first car when I was 17, and opened my first business at 23 years old. It's heartbreaking and disappointing to see how my relationship was depicted as something only surface level. Dean and I's connection was so much deeper. Call us kindred spirits or free souls...our outlook on life and love was similar (or so I thought). Which is why we continued a relationship after the show. However, just because I am looking for someone to "have fun with", explore the world, and try new things, does not mean that I don't want monogamy. Marriage is something that will happen when the right person comes into my life but I am not placing a time constraint on that. We have a tendency to become defensive when we see someone physically in pain, but just because they never showed me crying or being upset doesn't mean that I wasn't. This show was one of the most challenging, emotionally trying experiences I have endured. Looking back, I never spoke negatively about anyone else. I never told Dean how he should feel or who he should choose. I wouldn't change anything, all I can do is learn from it and move forward. There are so many other things that we can be investing our time and energy into - things that can improve and change the world. So please be respectful towards everyone ❤️ Spread more love, less hate.
A post shared by Danielle Lombard (@daniellellombard) on Sep 12, 2017 at 1:19pm PDT
Us: How did you feel about going home without a chance to step on the beach?
DL: I was really disappointed. They tried to stay optimistic and said if the investigation closed they would hopefully resume filming. They initially had told me that I could continue to stay in the hotel until they figured things out but, at that point, I didn’t want to be in a hotel room for five more days. Jasmine [Goode], Raven [Gates] and Alexis [Waters] and I were eating our feelings. We were carb loading with pizza and pasta.
Us: Were you hesitant to come back once the investigation was completed?
DL: I was excited for another opportunity. We had all planned a trip to Vegas for Jasmine’s 30th birthday and were really excited to go. I think it was only two or three days before the trip that they called us. Production was pretty adamant about having us back. I told them, “I’m not flying back if I’m going to be in a hotel room for another five days!”
Us: When you got to Paradise, did you know about Dean and Kristina’s romance?
DL: I had no idea. During the break, my focus wasn’t on who was in a relationship because I really thought it was over. I saw a Snapchat of Kristina and Dean together and I heard they were hanging out after the show but I didn’t know the extent of everything.
Us: Did you go into the show with your mind set on Dean?
DL: No, it wasn’t like Dean was my only option and I was only pursuing him. Ben Z and I actually had a very nice time together. I knew him before the show because he’s one of Jasmine’s good friends. In Paradise, I was trying to see if we had a connection. I think he’s a great person, but I just didn’t feel the chemistry with him. It’s funny because they just don’t show that!
Us: Did Dean lead you to believe his relationship with Kristina wasn’t serious?
DL: When I sat down and talked to the girls, I wanted them to tell me who they liked. I wanted them to speak up the way Jasmine did to Christen [Whitney] like, ”No, I really like this guy. Don’t go after him or I’ll kill you.” Whether we’re friends or not, if someone says that to me I would go find someone else. When I talked to Dean, he told me he and Kristina did hang out during the break but that he wanted to pump the brakes. He wanted to date other people and had encouraged her to do the same thing. And when I talked to Kristina, she said that they weren’t in a relationship either. I figured I would spend time with him and if there wasn’t a connection, at least I would know and I could try and pursue another relationship. 
Us: How would you describe your connection with Dean?
DL: We’re both very light-hearted people. I think that was one of the main differences between my relationship with him versus Kristina’s. He was just someone that I felt super comfortable with. We laugh all the time and we’re very smiley people. I just felt like we had this light-hearted connection where we just wanted to have fun. We didn’t want to put pressure on ourselves with the thought of getting engaged at the end of this. We just wanted to get to know each other in a more relaxed setting.
Us: What was your reaction when he said he wanted to leave separately?
DL: I knew the situation between me, Kristina and him caused a lot of stress. I think in the back of my mind I knew it was a possibility that he would want to leave separately. It was still hard for me to hear, though. I was like, “If he’s having doubts, I don’t want to get involved with someone like that. I rather he tell me now so we can move on separately.” But that’s not what happened afterwards. 
Us: So what did happen?
DL: We left in separate vans to go back to the hotel. It’s funny because when I pulled up, there was another car in front of me and I was like, “I bet that’s Dean.” Sure enough, he gets out. I was like, “Screw this guy.” I got back to my hotel room and I think it was five minutes after I put my bags down that I got a phone call from him. I didn’t want to talk to him at all. I hung up on him several times before actually staying on the line. I gave it to him straight. I said, “You don’t know what you want. You made a complete fool of me on national television. You literally told me you loved someone else and now you’re calling me saying you want to hang out. I just don’t understand your thought process.” He told me that he was encouraged to say those things. I just think it was his way of saving face at the end of Paradise. He came over to my hotel room and we talked some more. As soon as we got back to L.A., we hung out with each other and started this off camera relationship that I thought was going in the right direction. 
Us: Was he still talking to Kristina, too?
DL: It was my understanding that he wasn’t talking to her anymore. I told him my main thing when we were dating was that I didn’t want Paradise to continue after the show. If you’re still talking to Kristina, then you need to talk with Kristina. But if you want to focus on our relationship and see where it goes then you need to cut that communication off. I don’t believe he was hooking up with anyone else. But I think he was very good at making sure that we weren’t saying we were boyfriend and girlfriend or in an exclusive relationship.
Us: What’s your relationship like with Kristina today?
DL: I’ve seen Kristina. I organized Raven’s birthday party in L.A. and we hung out and spent time together. I don’t hold anything against her. In terms of a friendship, I think it’s where we were post-Bachelor and before Bachelor in Paradise. We hang out with a lot of the same people but would her and I ever hang out one on one? No. It’s not to say I don’t like her. Some people you get a lot with more than others.
Us: And what about Dean?
DL: I’m definitely frustrated with him. I think he’s been very dismissive of our relationship and continues to allude that he only pursued me because of my looks. I’ve never been in a position or a relationship where I’ve felt so disrespected by someone. It’s frustrating because he told me he would have my back and stand up for me but at the end of the day, he just saves himself instead of being honest about things. It’s a lesson learned moving forward. I don’t hate him but I am disappointed.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Not so smooth moves! Dancing With the Stars kicks off season 25 on Monday, September 18, but pro Sharna Burgess reveals exclusively to Us Weekly that she and partner Derek Fisher have already stumbled. 
“We’ve both tumbled to the floor one time, but he’s actually amazing at making sure I get to the ground safely and then he collapses,” Burgess, 32, told Us of 43-year-old Fisher, who is former pro NBA player.
“As long as she’s safe, we’ll be fine,” Fisher added.
“I’m nervous but, like, anxious slash excited,” Fisher admitted to Us, adding that he wasn’t sure how much his athletic background would help him in the ballroom. “[I’m] used to the quick movements but I think sometimes in sports, you can get away with certain things and still get through the drill but in dance, you can’t do that. Every detail matters so you just have to be really sharp and on point. It’s tough, but it’s fun though to try and figure it out.”
Pretty much sums up our salsa 😁we dance 11th tonight so make sure you tune in and get ya phones ready to vote for this stud!!! SO.MUCH.SWAGG in this salsa 💃🏻🕺🏻👊🏻 #TeamHoopsAndHeels
A post shared by Sharna Burgess (@sharnaburgess) on Sep 18, 2017 at 8:36am PDT
The pair will be dancing the salsa for week one, and revealed they’re trying a brand new move called the “jungle gym.”
“It’s where I just throw myself at him and he has to catch me and throw me around,” shared Burgess, who has yet to win a Mirrorball trophy. “This is how we find new lifts because all the old ones have been done and we have to find new things. That’s how we figure them out.”
Fisher, who most recently was the head coach of the New York Knicks, admitted he’s in it to win it. “I’m competitive waking up in the morning,” he told Us. “I think in order to be at your highest, you have to enjoy the process and dance forces you to enjoy the process. If you don’t, you’re not going to get the results that you want. That has been enjoyable so far.”
Watch Dancing With the Stars on ABC Mondays at 8 p.m. ET. Dancing With the Stars pro Cheryl Burke is blogging exclusively with Us Weekly about her quest to take home the season 25 mirrorball trophy with partner Terrell Owens. Check back each week for her latest update on the competition.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Get ready for another round with Gilead! Us Weekly caught up with the stars of The Handmaid’s Tale at the 69th annual Emmy Awards on Sunday, September 17, and they gave Us a few hints about what’s to come for season 2.
While Madeline Brewer couldn’t reveal much about the fate of her character, Janine, who had her eye removed in season 1 as punishment, the actress did promise that viewers will see her return. “I can tell you she’s back and I still have one eye,” Brewer explained. "They haven’t taken the other eye out yet.”
O-T Fagbenle’s Luke Bankole will continue his quest to be with Elisabeth Moss’ June (who is also known as Offred). “I gotta get my wife and kid back,” he tells Us. “We’ll see how that goes!”
Amanda Brugel admits that her character Rita’s story will unfold, but the actress still wants to keep parts of the role under wraps. “I hope she still contains her mystery,” Brugel says. "I hope there’s still always an edge to her  and the audience isn’t really sure how to take her because that’s just the most fun to play. Selfishly, I hope she’s always a little on the outside."
Brugel hints that new characters will appear in the second season and that viewers will learn much more about the recurring roles from season one. “I think we now have room and permission to delve into characters,” she says. "We really had to abide by the book a lot, but now we have a little more freedom, a little more breathing room to expand into the other characters and to also see other parts beyond Gilead.”
She added: "I think its going to be quite exciting!"
Aside from hinting at what’s to come in the new season, the cast opened up to Us about spending time with each other on set. Brugel told Us: “We all just want to get back to work!”
Nina Kiri, who plays Alma, shares her costar’s sentiments, explaining how much fun the cast has while filming. “I’m just stoked to be around everyone, no matter what happens with the story, I’m just stoked to be collaborating and having a good time,” she told Us. "The last season was so fun to shoot and now that we all know each other a little bit more, it’s even more exciting!”
The actors have so much fun, Kiri says, that they often don’t realize the weight of what they’re filming when the camera is rolling. “When I watched it for the first time I was actually taken aback at how dark it was,” Kiri told Us. "When you’re on set, it’s not that it’s not dark, but because you’re all just trying to get something done and you’re talking in between you’re having a good time it doesn’t end up being as dark as it looks in t he end. We do like to chit-chat, hang out and have life talks with Ann Dowd. That just gives us all life and takes away any sort of anxiety that we might have."
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Go behind the scenes with Us! The 2017 Emmy Awards featured tons of shocking moments during the three-hour televised ceremony, such as host Stephen Colbert’s scathing monologue against Donald Trump, Nicole Kidman and Alexander Skarsgard’s celebratory kiss on the mouth and an epic 9 to 5 reunion as Dolly Parton, Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin took the stage as presenters. However, off camera, even more noteworthy moments went down and Us Weekly was among the stars in L.A.’s Microsoft Theater to witness it all. Check out everything you didn’t see at the show:
4:19 p.m. Showing support! Gina Rodriguez walks into the entrance with her boyfriend, Joe LoCicero. She looks frazzled trying to figure out where to go, but Joe calms her down and rubs her shoulders. They hold hands as they walk inside.
5:21 p.m. Alec Baldwin kisses Susan Sarandon’s cheek and says “Great to see you!” and they hug hello.
5:24 p.m. Costars reunited! Nicole Kidman and Reese Witherspoon stand up and hug hello. Nicole turns back around and whispers something to Keith Urban.
5:25 p.m. Lead actor in a comedy series nominee William H. Macy looks nervous and has one hand on his lip while he shakes his knee really fast up and down. Felicity Huffman pats his knee and reassures him, “You're fine. It's OK."
5:26 p.m. Not a hair out of place! Elisabeth Moss fixes her ‘do and leans over to talk to Viola Davis, who is laughing at a joke with her husband, Julius Tennon, and patting his shoulder. Craig Robinson walks over and shakes Davis’ hand.
5:27 p.m. Tina Fey poses for a photo then turns around and hugs former 30 Rock costar Alec Baldwin.
5:17 p.m. Ewan McGregor and Jessica Lange are talking and laughing
5:26 p.m. Anna Faris approaches Viola Davis and congratulates her.
5:28 p.m. Laura Dern smiles widely as many people approach her to congratulate her on her supporting actress in a limited series or movie win. (We’re guessing Jackie Hoffman wasn’t one of them!)
5:30 p.m.  Nicole Kidman and Keith Urban pose for a photo.
5:31 p.m. No filter! Emmy Rossum is looking on Instagram.
5:34 p.m. Liev Schreiber is sitting in his seat with one of his sons on his lap. He was talking to a guy in front about him about how L.A. isn't so bad when he's sitting on the beach in Malibu and that he's been going out there more often, but it's expensive!
5:34 Bottoms up! Sofia Vergara takes a swig from her flask bracelet.
5:36 p.m. Leslie Jones makes an “oops" face while people rushed to get to their seats as they counted down 20 seconds before they went live again.
5:41 p.m. Kate McKinnon puts her hands in the air and claps at Saturday Night Live's win for outstanding variety sketch series.
5:45 p.m.  A seat filler steps on Anna Chulmsky’s train of her dress and she laughs and says, “Excuse me, but you are on my dress!"
5:47 p.m. Seth Meyers and his wife, Alexi Ashe, talking with another couple in the  lobby while drinking champagne.
6:04 p.m. Snapping to it! Jane Krakowski poses for photos with five different people in the lobby and takes selfies, too!
6:06 p.m. Jesse Tyler Ferguson takes selfie with his husband, Justin Mikita, and uploads it to his Instagram Story.
6:06 p.m. After forgetting her ticket, Julie Bowen has trouble getting back inside from the lobby when security won’t let her through. Eventually, she is able to get back in.
6:07 p.m. Handmaid’s Tale costars Elisabeth Moss and Samira Wiley are patting each other's hands and laughing. Elisabeth says, “You're doing fine!" And waves her hands around and yells, “Woohoo!”
6:10 p.m. Aziz Ansari laughs after someone jokes with him that the seats are alphabetical because he was in the front row.
6:40 p.m.  Tina Fey asks the bartender for a burger in the lobby.
6:42 p.m. Even celebs get starstruck! Felicity Huffman turns to Regina King and says, “That’s Ben Affleck!”
6:46 p.m.  Time for a touch up! Tracee Ellis Ross powders her face during a commercial break from her seat.
7:00 p.m.  Someone approaches Silicon Valley's Zach Woods and tells him “You’re my favorite on the show.” He laughs and says he shouldn’t be.
7:07 p.m. Reese Witherspoon FaceTimes in the back of the auditorium for a minute, smiling and waving to the camera.
7:10 p.m. Millie Bobby Brown and the Stranger Things kids are standing and talking to the Duffer Brothers, Matt and Ross. They're all laughing and Millie says, “This is crazy!" Ross asks if this is what they expected it would be.
7:15 p.m. William H. Macy looks seriously bummed after his loss to Donald Glover. Felicity Huffman pats his leg and whispers something in his ear and he shakes his head.
7:34 p.m.  Laura Dern squats on her chair while holding her award and and smiles at Nicole Kidman.
7:35 p.m. Reese Witherspoon is crying and her husband, Jim Toth, is rubbing her back.
7:37 p.m. RuPaul starts a standing ovation for Anika Noni Rose and Cicely Tyson.
7:43 p.m. Reese Witherspoon jumps up and down and hugs Jim Toth when Big Little Lies win for limited series or movie.
7:46p.m.  Making a statement! Kevin Spacey thanks someone who says they like his pineapple-print socks.
7:47p.m.  Lea Michele smiles and waves hello to people around her before going backstage.
7:48 p.m. Sarah Paulson is shaking and deeply breathing as she says, “Oh my God," and fans herself. Someone comes and rubs her shoulders.
7:49 p.m. Feeling the beat! Chrissy Metz is singing and snapping to the music and singing along with it.
7:49 p.m. Jessica Lange squats down next to Susan Sarandon and they talk.
7:49 p.m. Jimmy Kimmel stands near Sean Spicer. Jimmy taps Sean’s shoulder and introduces him to people who then walk away. Jimmy and Sean lean in close to each other and whisper back and forth while basically hugging for a long time — seems like they’re actually close friends!
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


She's up for the challenge! Val Chmerkovskiy's season 25 Dancing With the Stars partner, Victoria Arlen, developed two rare medical conditions as a child and eventually had to re-learn basic skills, including speaking and walking. Now, she's ready to defy the odds and tackle the ballroom.
"I never really sought out to be an inspiration," the former Paralympian swimmer, 22, exclusively told Us Weekly at Planet Hollywood in New York City on September 6. "To go from not walking to dancing in a matter of two years, it's pretty crazy. I think walking is a little easier than ballroom dancing … but I'm really grateful and blessed to be working with Val."
However, Chmerkovskiy, 31, is already showing his partner some tough love. "There [are] no pity parties," he told Us. "It's hard work and you gotta earn your celebration and earn your rest and your sleep. I just know she's that type of person and wants it anyway, so I'm going to squeeze every ounce of her potential out of her. Then I can live with the results."
Though the season hasn't even begun yet, rehearsals have already proven to be somewhat difficult. "It's been challenging," Arlen admitted. "I think anyone that goes in and says it's easy hasn't really dove into it. It's really challenging, but I like a good challenge and I have a really good teacher."
By competing on the ABC reality series, the ESPN personality hopes to inspire viewers battling their own personal struggles. "I think there are a lot of people out there that need a little hope and if I can be just a small vessel of that then I've done my job," she told Us.
The Ukranian pro dancer added, "Everyone falls down, but you have to stand up and keep going."
Dancing With the Stars season 25 premieres on ABC on Monday, September 18, at 8 p.m. ET.
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Game time! Us Weekly hit the red carpet at the 2017 Emmy Awards at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles on Sunday, September 17, and played a few rounds of Truth or Dare with some of the biggest names in television. Watch the video above!
Anthony Anderson wasn't afraid to choose dare, though he did make a slight adjustment to Us Weekly Video Correspondent Christina Garibaldi's request. "I don't want to jinx tonight, so I can't give you my facial expression [if I win], so I'm going to give you the facial expression from the last two years [when I lost]," the Black-ish star, 47, said.
Anderson then began clapping before turning his big smile into a frown. "What the f--k?" he mouthed, mimicking his reaction to his previous losses in the Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series category. Sadly, later in the night, he lost again for the third consecutive year, this time to Atlanta's Donald Glover.
Ellie Kemper also chose dare while playing with Us — and she was asked to sing the song that she listened to while getting ready for the big night. She admitted that she didn't have any music playing earlier, but she wished she had turned on Kelly Clarkson's "Stronger (What Doesn't Kill You)." The Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt star, 37, then began singing a slightly off-key rendition of the upbeat tune.
The cast of RuPaul's Drag Race was a bit more conservative with their choice. Carson Kressley, Ross Mathews, Michelle Visage and RuPaul collectively decided to choose truth and had to decide which of the four of them has the nicest butt. "I think it's probably Michelle," Kressley, 47, responded as Visage, 48, nodded in agreement. "And it's real!" she boasted.
Watch the video above to see many more stars, including Suzanne Cryer and Finn Wolfhard, play Truth or Dare with Us Weekly!
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Like mother, like daughter? Reese Witherspoon’s 18-year-old daughter, Ava Phillippe, was actually mistaken for her on the red carpet following the 2017 Emmy Awards in Los Angeles on Sunday, September 17.
Onlookers tell Us Weekly that the mother-daughter duo stopped by the HBO afterparty around 10 p.m. where a photographer pointed at the young one, whose father is actor Ryan Phillippe, called her Reese and asked her to turn around for a photo.
“I’m not her,” Phillippe told the photog. The mix-up isn’t all that surprising given the teenager, who boasts nearly 500,000 Instagram followers herself, looks so much like her famous mom.
Meanwhile, Witherspoon’s HBO series Big Little Lies won big that evening, taking home eight of its 16 nominations, including Outstanding Lead Actress in a Limited Series or Movie for Nicole Kidman, Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Limited Series or Movie for Laura Dern, Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited Series or Movie for Alexander Skarsgard, and Outstanding Limited Series.
“It’s great to be the architect of your own destiny and create material for yourself,” the Oscar winner, 41, who served as an executive producer alongside Kidman, 50, told reporters in the press room after their big win. “Talking about creating roles for women, I’ve been very passionate about for the last five years, and talking to Nicole about that, and seeing the parts diminish for women as you get older. It feels incredible to use the years of experience to architect a movie or television show that can read so many notable roles for women, and create award winning roles.”
The cast also revealed that night that they'd love to do a second season.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Maybe you can get all that you want. Big Little Liars’ Adam Scott celebrated along with the rest of his cast at the 2017 Emmy Awards on Sunday, September 17, and revealed where he thinks his character Ed and Madeline (Reese Witherspoon) would be today.
“I think they deserve a nice vacation. That’s what those two need,” the Parks and Recreation alum, 44, exclusively told Us Weekly at the Governors Ball. “[They need] one of those vacations where you go and make up. I think that’s what they need. They need a make up vacation.”
Ed and Madeline were rocky for most of the HBO series. Madeline cheated (unbeknownst to him), but it clearly put a strain on their relationship. In the finale, it appeared that a death brought them closer together.
“If they decide to do a season two — I loved the ending, it was kind of cliffhanger-ish. So maybe there will be more. I don’t know,” Scott told Us. “It really was a treat to work with someone so profoundly talented [as Reese]. I got to go to work every day and see this incredible performance just right in front of me. It was amazing. It was like watching a magic trick.”
Big Little Lies took home wins for best directing, outstanding limited series, supporting actor for Alexander Skarsgard, supporting actress for Laura Dern and lead actress for a limited series for Nicole Kidman on Sunday night. 
“It was so exciting,” Scott said. “I’m so proud to be a part of it. Jean-Marc [Vallee], and Nathan [Ross], and Reese [Witherspoon], and Bruna [Papandrea], and Nicole, I’m just lucky to be on for the ride. It’s an incredible show. I’m a small, but proud part of it.”
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Dancing With the Stars pro Cheryl Burke is blogging exclusively with Us Weekly about her quest to take home the season 25 mirrorball trophy with partner Terrell Owens! Check back each week for her latest update on the competition.
Rehearsals are going great so far. Terrell was a last minute addition to the show, so we are not where everybody else is in terms of rehearsing. They have had three weeks to train and we, unfortunately, only had seven days before the first show. In a way, it’s a good thing that we didn’t have a lot of time, because it’s training him to learn a dance in a short amount of time. We don’t have three weeks to train for each dance, so at least he knows that’s the actual pressure of the show. You really only have a few days to learn a new dance.
I have to say, in just that short amount of time, Terrell is doing amazing; he is in great shape. The fact that he’s an athlete helps as well, because he is used to being coached. It’s as if he just got off the football field, and he really takes good care of his body. Terrell is known for his touchdown dances. I’m going to incorporate some of that choreography into our dance for the first week.
Our first dance is not easy. We have the cha-cha and we are dancing to “Ain’t Too Proud to Beg” by The Temptations, so it will be very lively. It’s a great premiere song and dance to kick the show off. The downside is that I’m only 5-foot-4 and he is 6-foot-3. Our height difference isn’t working for us, that’s for sure, but you will really be able to tell that when we do more of the ballroom dances, like the fox-trot or tango. He has such a long wingspan. His arms are very long and they kind of get in the way. He is also a size 14 shoe size, so his feet don’t help either! Because he is so long, if he doesn’t finish his lines, he can look a little awkward at times, so we are working on that. I’m also working on his posture as well.
Our goal for Monday is to get 7s to start off with.  An 8 would be amazing, but I wouldn’t be mad with all 6s, especially with the little amount of rehearsal time. I’m sure the judges are going to be hard on him, because they will see potential and will probably tell him to work on his technique. I’m expecting 6s but 7s would be like a 10 for me now!
Football players tend to do well in this competition, so there is that added pressure. I just hope people still understand that this guy has never danced before, especially ballroom dancing.
Obviously, like everybody, we want to make it all the way! I keep telling him it’s one step at a time and one dance at a time. This whole show is a journey and it’s bigger than just a dance show. It’s about showcasing his real personality and it’s about changing people’s perceptive of him, and I hope people will get to see that. I’m just trying to make him look as comfortable as possible considering we had such a short time to rehearse, but I’m confident I can do that.
There are a lot of younger celebs this season, and everyone has some sort of experience, but we will see what happens. You just never know! It’s going to be a fun season.
Watch Dancing With the Stars on ABC Mondays at 8 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Still a great night. Jane Krakowski may not have taken home a win at the 2017 Emmys, but she celebrated the big night in other ways.
The Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt actress, 48, who was in attendance in support of the show’s three nominations, including Outstanding Comedy Series, Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series for Ellie Kemper, and Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series for Tituss Burgess, told Us it was still “fun to be invited” despite not winning.
In fact, the 30 Rock alum really enjoyed Stephen Colbert as a host. “It was great. It was super fun,” Krakowski told Us at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles on Sunday, September 17. “I thought Stephen was hilarious. It was a good night. It was fun.”
But the best moment for her involved a little low-key swig with her costar. The Ally McBeal alum told Us the highlight of her evening was “sneaking a drink with Tituss after we didn’t win anything.”
Meanwhile, Burgess, 38, looked to have a blast mingling with other stars all night, which he documented for fans on Instagram.
The Broadway alum broke into song with Black-ish stars Tracee Ellis Ross and Jennifer Lewis, as well as Insecure creator Issa Rae, in between commercials breaks and at the afterparties.
@traceeellisross we are murdering our made up song!!! And I mean murdering!!! I love u !!!
A post shared by Tituss Burgess (@titusssawthis) on Sep 18, 2017 at 12:38am PDT
“He’s way better at this than me,” Ross said as they belted out. “This is my hero.” Burgess kissed her and said, “I love you, baby.”
Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt has been nominated for 16 Emmy Awards to-date. The Netflix series was recently picked up for a fourth season.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


The crowd roared with boos as Sterling K. Brown’s mic cut off and music started playing during his acceptance speech for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series at the 2017 Emmy Awards in Los Angeles on Sunday, September 17.
The This Is Us star’s win marked a historic moment as he became the first black actor to win in that category since 1998. But things turned a little awkward as he was played off stage before he could finish his speech, something that didn’t sit well with his costars either.
Onlookers tell Us that Chrissy Metz booed from her seat as Brown, 41, got a standing ovation and slapped the mic with his hand, while Milo Ventimiglia told Us at the Fox afterparty, “I think it’s unfortunate. I haven’t had a chance to ask him what the remaining was, but I read his mouth pretty well. I think he was talking about his loved ones. I’m so proud and excited for him to be on that stage.”
The Gilmore Girls alum was right as Brown talked to reporters in the press room about his family. “And to my wife, I can’t believe they cut me off before I got to thank my wife, Ryan Michelle Bathe. You’re everything. You make my life worth living,” the Black Panther actor said. “You gave me two of the most beautiful things that God has ever put on this planet: my sons Andrew Jason Sterling Brown and Amaré Michael Ryan Christian Brown. Your daddy loves you with the strength of a thousand suns. I’ll see you Monday after work.”
Meanwhile, his on-screen wife, Susan Kelechi Watson, told Us Weekly, “You know what, I guess time runs out. But the thing about Sterling is that whether the time runs out or not, the brotha has something to say and he’s gonna say it. So he took his space and he took his time and I love it.”
As for how they’re going to celebrate, the actress said, “I’m gonna jump on top of him. He deserves it.”
Brown was in the middle of thanking his castmates when the band chimed in. “You can play, you can play. Nobody got that loud music. Our writers, I love you,” he continued as cameras panned out. “You are our life’s blood. Our producers and directors, I love you.”
This Is Us returns Tuesday, September 26 at 9/8c on NBC.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Jessica Biel stunned at the 2017 Emmy Awards in L.A. on Sunday, September 17, without her usual award show date, husband Justin Timberlake, by her side — and it turns out that the actress, 35, was riding solo for a very good reason.
Timberlake, 40, touched down in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, to perform at Rock in Rio’s show the same night. The singer headlined the event, which also featured performances from Alicia Keys, Walk the Moon and Frejat.  Attendees at the annual concert series — which fundraises for social, environmental and cultural causes — also saw Maroon 5, Shawn Mendes, Fergie and more perform on previous nights.
Prior to the concert, Timberlake shared a series of behind-the-scenes photos with the caption: "We out here #RockInRio!"
Meanwhile, Biel’s night at the Emmys started on a rough note. On her way to the 69th annual ceremony,  the actress revealed that the air conditioning in her car  wasn’t working.  She captioned an Instagram post, in which she appears to be struggling through the heat, “When the AC is broken en route to the Emmy's you thank God for the ice in your drank. #emmys.”
While on the red carpet for the event, the actress — who stunned in a Ralph & Russo gown, Forevermark diamonds and Stuart Weitzman shoes — gushed over her and Timberlake’s 2-year-old son Silas’ latest milestones. “Now he’s saying to me, ‘No, no, mommy. We’re not going to do this anymore,’” Biel told E! News’ Guiliana Rancic. “And ‘this is not a match,’ which means he doesn’t want to do it anymore.”
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


This guy! Ben Affleck adorably spoke in his Batman voice while attending HBO’s Emmys afterparty in L.A. on Sunday, September 17.
An onlooker exclusively tells Us Weekly that Affleck, 45, got into character while taking a selfie with another attendee.
“The fan said, ’It’s nice to take a picture with Batman.' And Ben said, 'nice jacket' in his Batman voice,” the eyewitness says.
Back in July, Affleck addressed rumors that he’s not returning as Bruce Wayne. “Let me be very clear,” he said at Comic-Con in San Diego. “I am the luckiest guy in the world. Batman is the coolest part in the universe. I’m so thrilled to do it. It’s f--king amazing.”
The Justice League star attended the Emmys with his girlfriend, Saturday Night Live producer Lindsay Shookus. As previously reported, Affleck cheered her on when the NBC show won for Outstanding Variety Sketch Series.
"He jumped up and cheered when SNL won," an onlooker told Us. "He's sitting with all of SNL in the center of the theater. He's clearly her plus-one."
Affleck and Shookus, 37, recently went to the U.S. Open together in NYC and traveled to Maine. He continues to have an amicable relationship with ex-wife, Jennifer Garner, whom he shares Violet, 11, Seraphina, 8, and Samuel, 5. "He's trying to live a normal life and is focused on putting his family first,” a source told Us last month.
Affleck and Garner, 45, announced the end of their 10-year marriage in June 2015. “[Jen] is OK” with Affleck and Shookus’ relationship, a source previously told Us. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Phew! Keri Russell was totally fine with not winning the Emmy award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series during the star-studded event in L.A. on Sunday, September 17.
“It’s such a cool thing to be nominated and I’m always very secretly thankful I don’t have to speak publicly,” The Americans actress, 41, exclusively told Us Weekly after the show.
“Always secretly relieved. Always,” she added. “I just go, ‘Oh my God. Thank God.’”
The win eventually went to Elisabeth Moss for her gritty role in Hulu’s The Handmaid’s Tale. The two were also up against Viola Davis (How to Get Away With Murder), Claire Foy (The Crown), Evan Rachel Wood (Westworld) and Robin Wright (House of Cards).
Russell, now happy that the categories were all announced, let her hair down for the rest of the night. She and her longtime partner, costar Matthew Rhys, hit up the Governors Ball together.
“Now you can have fun!” she told Us, holding up a beer. She was later spotted dancing with a group of friends to Journey’s “Don’t Stop Believin.’”
The couple met on set of FX’s The Americans in 2013 and are parents of son Sam, 15 months. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Big (not so little) win! Alexander Skarsgard appeared in shock when he won the 2017 Emmy Award for Best Supporting Actor in a Limited Series or Movie — and not because of his kiss with Nicole Kidman.
Skarsgard, 41, took home the trophy for his role as Perry Wright in HBO’s Big Little Lies. “It’s really, honestly extraordinary,” Skarsgard exclusively told Us Weekly on Sunday, September 17.
The handsome star celebrated by attending the HBO afterparty at the Pacific Design Center. His plus-one? His mom, My Skarsgard!
The True Blood alum comes from a famous family. His dad is Good Will Hunting star Stellan Skarsgard and his younger brother Bill Skarsgard plays Pennywise in the terrifying horror film It, based off of Stephen King’s 1990 novel.
The Big Little Lies actor made headlines when he won on Sunday night, most notably for kissing his costar and TV wife, Kidman, on the lips before taking the stage.
“Thank you to HBO, all my friends and lovers. [To] the ladies of the show, thank you for making this boy feel like one of the girls,” he said during his acceptance speech.
The Swedish actor also had fun watching host Stephen Colbert on Sunday night. “I love him!” he told Us. “I can’t wait to see him [at the party].” 
Big Little Lies also stars Reese Witherspoon, Shailene Woodley, Laura Dern and Zoe Kravitz. The actors have all teased about a possible season 2, but nothing has been confirmed yet.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Making the rounds! Ben Affleck and his girlfriend, Saturday Night Live producer Lindsay Shookus, made it a date night at the 2017 Emmy Awards in L.A. on Sunday, September 17.
As previously reported, Affleck, 45, was on hand at the Microsoft Theater as SNL won in the Outstanding Variety Sketch Series category.
"He jumped up and cheered when SNL won," an onlooker told Us Weekly. "He's sitting with all of SNL in the center of the theater. He's clearly her plus-one."
Following the win, the couple mingled with the crowd — including Jimmy Kimmel, Louis C.K. and Tina Fey — and celebrated at both the HBO party and Governors Ball.
"Ben was very animated and more in his zone,” an eyewitness tells Us of the Justice League star at the HBO bash. “He was making everyone laugh and Lindsay had her arm around his shoulder.”
“Lindsay asked a guy to take a photo of the group on her phone,” the source adds. “Lindsay smiled at Ben and put her hand over his shoulder.”
The couple sat next to Curb Your Enthusiasm’s Larry David and Jeff Garlin. At one point, two women walked over and asked Affleck to take photos with them.
Affleck and Shookus, 37, then caught up with some of the SNL cast at the Governors Ball. “He was doting on her, running [his hand on] her back and smiling,” an onlooker tells Us. He later led her into the Emmy trophy engraving area.
A source previously told Us that Shookus and Affleck — who shares Violet, 11, Seraphina, 8, and Samuel, 5, with ex-wife Jennifer Garner — began dating in April. A second insider, however, counters that they began hooking up three years ago. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Tough competition! The coaches on season 13 of The Voice are singing the praises of newcomer Jennifer Hudson and getting ready for a competitive season in a sneak peek NBC is sharing exclusively with Us Weekly.
“She’s really not a rookie at this,” says veteran coach Blake Shelton of the Dreamgirls actress, who was the first female coach to win on the British version of the reality talent show earlier this year. “Congratulations on winning The Voice UK. We’re in the United States of America now.”
Joining Hudson and Shelton is “Malibu” singer Miley Cyrus, who first appeared on the show as a coach in 2016 for season 10, and series regular Adam Levine.
“We have no chance,” says the Maroon 5 frontman of victory. “She’s the only coach on The Voice that has an Oscar, which I’m super jealous about.”
While the American Idol alum has won an Oscar, a Golden Globe award and two Grammy awards, she reminds this season’s contestants that she began her career on a similar stage in 2004: “I started out just like you on a stage like this, and then later I look up and Whitney Houston is presenting me my first Grammy.”
“I’m grateful to have people that have been my mentors and inspiration, “ reflects the Hairspray Live! star in the video. “And then, here, y’all are going to sing to me and I get to help your dream come true? That’s gold.”
There’s only one thing on Hudson’s mind: “Winning is important to me because the contestants want to win, and I want to win for them.”
Season 13 of The
Voice premieres on Monday, September 25, at 8/7c on NBC.


Yvonne Strahovski is married! The Handmaid’s Tale actress revealed that she and her boyfriend, Tim Loden, tied the knot over the summer as they attended the Emmy Awards in L.A. on Sunday, September 17.
"We ended up jumping in the lake in our suit and gown, just to cool down," Strahovski, 35, told E! News on the red carpet. "It was ridiculously hot. But we had a great time."
Loden added: “We all made it through and did some dancing. It was fantastic.”
The couple tied the knot in Northern California after more than six years of dating.
Strahovski was in attendance to support her Hulu series, which was nominated in a whopping 13 categories. The drama won eight trophies, including outstanding drama series and outstanding lead actress in a drama series for lead Elisabeth Moss.
Strahovski plays Serena Joy in the series, which was picked up for a second season. The Handmaid’s Tale is based on Margaret Atwood’s 1985 book of the same name. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Milo Ventimiglia and his rumored girlfriend, Kelly Egarian, made it a date night at the 69th Primetime Emmy Awards in L.A. on Sunday, September 17.
The This Is Us actor, 40, and Egarian, a marketing coordinator for luxury fashion house Stella McCartney, got cozy at the Governors Ball at the Microsoft Theater, Us Weekly can confirm.
An eyewitness tells Us that the pair ate alone before more arrived around 8:30 p.m. They talked about how good the food was and he kissed her on the cheek.
They later were joined by his costar Mandy Moore and her fiancé, Dawes frontman Taylor Goldsmith. “[Kelly] leaned over him while they chatted and later was sitting on his lap while she texted,” the onlooker says. They later briefly slow danced together at their table and he sweetly twirled her around. 
Ventimiglia previously dated former Gilmore Girls and Heroes costars Alexis Bledel and Hayden Panettiere. Bledel, 36, was also in attendance at the Emmys and her Hulu drama The Handmaid’s Tale won for Outstanding Drama.
Ventimiglia recently revealed what he learned from dating Panettiere, 28, in an interview with Mr. Porter. (The pair ended their two-year relationship in 2009. He was 29 and she was 18.)
"Never do it again. There are things that happen to you in your life that shape who you are. Everything I've been through from jobs to friendships to partnerships, everything has built me to who I am. You learn from it. You learn a better way of doing things. It wasn't until my mid to late twenties that the job wears on you, relationships wear on you,” he said. "But I wouldn't change a thing. When you get knocked over the head in life, it builds your perspective."
Bledel and her husband, fellow Mad Men alum Vincent Kartheiser, meanwhile, secretly welcomed a baby boy in fall 2015. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Supportive plus-one! Mandy Moore’s fiancé, Taylor Goldsmith, attended the 2017 Emmy Awards with the This Is Us actress after all on Sunday, September 17.
Although the newly engaged couple didn’t walk the red carpet together, the Dawes frontman did join Moore, 33, at her seat inside the Microsoft Theater in L.A. The pair looked adorable together and shared a laugh when Moore’s costar Sterling K. Brown won in the Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series category. 
Moore and Goldsmith later attended the Governors Ball together. “Mandy was clapping and laughing at their conversation,” an eyewitness tells Us Weekly. The pair spent time with her TV husband, Milo Ventimiglia, and his rumored girlfriend, Kelly Egarian. 
Us Weekly confirmed last week that Goldsmith popped the question after two years of dating. Moore split from ex-husband Ryan Adams in January 2015 after nearly six years of marriage.
Season 2 of This Is Us premieres on NBC on Tuesday, September 26, at 9 p.m. ET. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Stephen Colbert brought his comedic A-game to host the 69th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards and there were a ton of noteworthy moments — everything from funny and awkward to touching and downright weird. Oh, and lots of Trump jokes.
Relive highlights from the show, held at L.A.’s Microsoft Theater, in the video above, and below:
1. Spicey Cameo!
Sean Spicer made a surprise appearance on stage after Colbert dished out several Donald Trump jokes. The former White House press secretary specifically entered scene when the host called this the most-watched Emmys of all time. “This will be the largest audience to witness an Emmys, period, both in person and around the world,” Spicer said, referring to his own remarks about Trump’s controversial inauguration attendance earlier this year.
And the kicker — as he left the stage, Colbert said, “Melissa McCarthy, everyone.” (The actress of course won an Emmy for her portrayal of Spicer on Saturday Night Live.)
2. Dave Chappelle Being Dave Chappelle
The 44-year-old comic stepped out to present Best Director for a Comedy Series alongside McCarthy — and admitted they didn’t practice what they were going to say. “It is an honor to be amongst you all and I am truly amazed how many black people are here,” Chappelle quipped. “I counted 11 on the monitor. … I should also tell you this, I skipped rehearsal.”
3. Alec Baldwin Offers Trump His Emmy
The Trump jokes didn’t stop all night as winner Alec Baldwin accepted Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series for his portrayal as the president on Saturday Night Live. “At long last, Mr. President, here is your Emmy,” Baldwin said during his speech, referencing Trump’s failure to win an Emmy of his own for The Celebrity Apprentice.
The Emmy winner took another jab at the president when he mentioned that he and his wife, Hilaria Baldwin, did not have a baby this past year. “You put that orange wig on, it’s birth control, trust me,” he joked.
4. 9 to 5 Reunion
Dolly Parton, Lily Tomlin and Jane Fonda reunited on stage to present Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited Series or Movie. “I have been waiting for a 9 to 5 reunion since we did the movie,” Parton said. (They stared in 1980 comedy about three working women who live out their fantasies of getting revenge on their boss.) 
Fonda added, “In 1980, we refused to be controlled by a sexist, egotistical, lying, hypocritical bigot boss.” Tomlin then quipped, “And in 2017 we still refuse to be controlled by a sexist, egotistical, lying, hypocritical bigot boss.”
5. Baby News!
The typically super private Donald Glover revealed that he’s expecting baby No. 2 with his girlfriend, Michelle, while accepting his award for Outstanding Lead Actor. “I want to thank Michelle, my partner, you love me even how crazy I get. I want to thank my baby, my son, for just being the joy in my life,” the Atlanta star said. “I want to thank my unborn son.” Congrats to the couple!
6. Making History
Speaking of Glover, 33, he took home the award for Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series for his FX comedy-drama Atlanta, making him the first-ever black director to win in that category. With his win, Glover broke a four-year streak of female directors taking home the Emmy for Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series.
Meanwhile, Lena Waithe, also 33, claimed the prize for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series, making her the first-ever black woman to win in that category. She was recognized for cowriting the "Thanksgiving" episode from season 2 of Master of None with series co-creator Aziz Ansari.
7. Colbert Kills
The late-night host was clearly willing to go as far as he could when it came to his hosting duties. Not only did he bring on the political jabs, but he appeared naked in a Westworld-themed sketch and showed off his musical skills during the opening routine.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Stephen Colbert's onstage appearances at the 2017 Emmy Awards on Sunday, September 17, were surprisingly few and far between, but he still managed to deliver plenty of laughs. Watch the video above to relive Colbert's best moments as the evening's host!
1. Colbert Sings and Dances
The ceremony kicked off with a satirical musical number led by none other than the 53-year-old Late Show host. After singing about several of the nominated shows with some help from Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Chance the Rapper, Colbert hit the stage with a chorus line of dancers wearing costumes inspired by The Handmaid's Tale, which later took home the trophy for Outstanding Drama Series. "At least our future is better on TV," he sang during the political number.
2. Colbert Slams Donald Trump
After ending the song, the comedian tore into President Donald Trump. "We all know the Emmys mean a lot to Donald Trump because he was nominated multiple times for Celebrity Apprentice but he never won," Colbert said. "If he had won an Emmy, I bet he wouldn't have run for president. In a way, this is all your fault." Former White House press secretary Sean Spicer then joined Colbert on stage to poke fun at himself and the real estate mogul, 71.
3. Colbert Sits Down With 'Emmy'
In one particularly funny sketch, Colbert sat down with Emmy herself, played by RuPaul. "I'm excited to be sitting down at all. I've been holding that thing for years," the 56-year-old Drag Race host said while in a gold dress and a blonde wig. Colbert then asked Emmy the question on everyone's mind: "Do you like Oscar?" RuPaul's Emmy replied, "He's cute. We actually dated for a little while. I had to break it off."
4. Colbert Starts Drinking
After Last Week Tonight With John Oliver took home the Emmy for Best Variety Talk Series for the second year in a row, Colbert and Jimmy Kimmel, both of whom were nominated in the same category, threw some shade while sipping alcoholic beverages. "I'm drinking a specialty cocktail called the Last Week Tonight," Colbert quipped. "It's so high quality, they can only make one a week."
5. Colbert Gets Naked
The late-night host stripped down for a Westworld-inspired sketch, which featured a special appearance by Tituss Burgess. Colbert joked that he has questioned the nature of his reality "every day since November 8," referring to the day that Trump was elected president. The skit ended with a cowboy hat-clad Burgess, 38, saying, "If you'll excuse me, Stefan, I gotta go rope me some cowboys."
Tell Us: How did Colbert do as host, and which was your favorite moment?
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Second time’s a charm! After being nominated once before, Nicole Kidman won her first Emmy on Sunday, September 17, for her role as abused wife Celeste Wright on HBO’s Big Little Lies.
The 50-year-old actress made sure to thank her husband, Keith Urban, and her two daughters Sunday and Faith during her acceptance speech.
“I have two little girls, Sunday and Faith, and my darling Keith, who I ask to help me pursue this artistic path and they have to sacrifice so much for it,” Kidman said after winning Outstanding Lead Actress in a Limited Series. “So this is yours. I want my little girls to have this on their shelf and to look at it and go, ‘Every time my momma didn't put me to bed, it is because of this.’ I got something.” 
“But also I want them to know that sometimes when you are acting, you get a chance to bring a bigger message and this is their contribution and your contribution,” she concluded. “We shine a light on domestic abuse. It is a complicated, insidious disease … it exists far more than we allow ourselves to know. It is filled with shame and secrecy, and by you acknowledging me with this award, it shines a light on it even more. So thank you, thank you, thank you. I bow down to you.”
Kidman did not acknowledge her two adopted children with Tom Cruise, Connor and Isabella, during her speech. After her divorce from Cruise in 2001, she married Keith Urban in 2006. The couple welcomed Sunday Rose in July 2008, and Faith Margaret was born via surrogate in December 2010.

Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Well, that's one way to say congrats! Alexander Skarsgard won a 2017 Emmy Award for Best Supporting Actor in a Limited Series or Movie on Sunday, September 17, and his Big Little Lies costar Nicole Kidman wasn't shy about showing him some love for the achievement. 
When his name was announced, Kidman and Skarsgard shared a quick, friendly kiss on the lips in front of her husband, Keith Urban, and the internet immediately freaked out about the interaction between the onscreen spouses.
"Nicole kidman really kissed alexander skarsgard (her tv husband) on the mouth in front of her real husband lmao," one tweeter wrote, while another added: "No one was more surprised when Nicole Kidman kissed Alexander Skarsgard on the lips than AlexanderSkarsgard."
Another user wrote: "I AM SHIPPING THIS. A THREE-WAY MARRIAGE WITH NICOLE KIDMAN, KEITH URBAN AND ALEXANDER SKARSGARD IS WHAT DREAMS ARE MADE OF. "
See more reactions below to the kiss between Skarsgard and Kidman, who won in the Outstanding Lead Actress in a Limited Series or Movie category for her work on the series.
TBH if I was Nicole Kidman I'd kiss Alexander Skarsgard on the lips in front of my husband, too. #emmys

Trying to figure this out. Watch Nicole Kidman kiss Alexander Skarsgard on the lips right in front of her husband. pic.twitter.com/i0ohqInuR5

Wait, Alexander Skarsgard and Nicole Kidman kissed as he was walking up to accept his award?! #BigLittleLies #Emmys

Good lord grow up people, Nicole Kidman's Alexander Skarsgard kiss was peck that lasted one second. @KeithUrban has done the same thing🙄

That lip lock between Nicole Kidman and Alexander Skarsgard 😳🤤...and in front of Keith! #emmys

Nicole Kidman just got to kiss Alexander Skarsgard in front of her husband Toby Keith can i be an actor too #Emmys
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Donald Glover revealed some major news during his speech at the 2017 Emmys — he’s becoming a father for the second time!
“I’m so happy. Wow! Thank you guys so much. This is nuts,” the Atlanta star, 33, began while accepting his award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles on Sunday, September 17. “I really want to thank the Academy again, everybody in here, you guys. I love you. I want to thank my mom and my dad again, I want to thank the city of Atlanta. I want to thank FX.”
He gave a shoutout to his girlfriend and their children, revealing she’s pregnant with baby No. 2. “I want to thank — I want to thank Michelle, my partner, you love me even how crazy I get. I want to thank my baby, my son, for just being the joy in my life,” Glover said. “I want to thank my unborn son, we're listening to Stevie [Wonder] tonight.”
The Community alum then took a moment to call out the president. “I want to thank [Donald] Trump for making black people No. 1 on the most oppressed list. He's the reason I'm probably up here,” Glover said. “And I just want to thank all the writers and all the people in here and everybody doing great work. Because it's so necessary and I really appreciate everybody here. Thank you so much.”
The rapper known as Childish Gambino, and his love Michelle, whose last name is unknown, welcomed their first child in 2016, Us Weekly exclusive reported, but the couple never officially announced the birth themselves as they are known to be very private.
Meanwhile, that same evening, Glover, 33, took home the trophy for Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series for his FX comedy-drama, making him the first-ever black director to win in that category. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Donald Glover and Lena Waithe won their first Emmys on Sunday, September 17, and made history by doing so.
Glover, 33, took home the award for Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series for his FX comedy-drama Atlanta, making him the first-ever black director to win in that category. He was nearly at a loss for words while accepting the trophy at the 2017 Emmy Awards.
"Man! First I want to thank the great algorithm that put us all here," the multihyphenate began. "I want to thank my parents, who are in the audience. This is nuts! … I just love everybody out here for letting me be up here, so thank you. Thank you all."
With his win, Glover broke a four-year streak of female directors taking home the Emmy for Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series. He also won Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series on Sunday night, and was nominated for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series. In addition, Atlanta received a nod for Outstanding Comedy Series.
Meanwhile, Waithe, also 33, claimed the prize for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series, making her the first-ever black woman to win in that category. She was recognized for cowriting the "Thanksgiving" episode from season 2 of Master of None with series co-creator Aziz Ansari. Alan Yang won in the same category last year for cowriting the Netflix comedy-drama's acclaimed "Parents" episode.
Standing alongside Ansari, 34, the actress thanked the LGBTQ community. "I see each and every one of you," she said. "The things that make us different, those are our superpowers. Every day when you walk out the door, put on your imaginary cape and go out there and conquer the world because the world would not be as beautiful as it is if we weren't in it."
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Trying to be funny? After Jackie Hoffman lost an Emmy to Laura Dern on Sunday, September 17 at the 69th Annual Emmy Awards, she was caught on camera cursing.
Hoffman, 56, and Dern, 50, were both nominated for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Limited Series or TV Movie. But when presenters Issa Rae and Riz Adhmed revealed that the Big Little Lies star won instead of Hoffman, Hoffman was seen saying “Damn it!” multiple times.
It didn’t end there. The Feud: Bette and Joan star, who portrayed Mamacita, then took to Twitter to complain, first writing, “Laura Dern had famous parents. Forgive me for being from real people #elitism #Emmys2017.” (Dern is the daughter of actress Diane Ladd and Bruce Dern.) 
Hoffman then went on to write shocking Tweets about Dern. “I hear that Laura Dern runs a child porn ring #soreloser Emmys2017,” Hoffman tweeted. “I hear that Laura Dern looted art from Nazi victims,” she continued, before claiming she was only joking. “I hear the media actually taking my reaction seriously? Are you kidding me?” she concluded.
Dern has been nominated six times for Emmys, but this was the actress’ first win. “I've been acting since I was 11 years old and I think I've worked with maybe 12 women, so I just want to thank the Television Academy for honoring our show and working with this incredible tribe of fierce women," she said during her acceptance speech, in which she praised her costars Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman and Shailene Woodley. “Thank you to Nicole and Reese's moms for not only giving us extraordinary women, but really well-read women because that's how I'm getting parts. I share this with my tribe of four ladies."
Dern won for her role as Renata Klein in the hit HBO show, which is based off the best-selling book by Liane Moriarty.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Ben Affleck didn't hide his pride at the 2017 Emmy Awards when his girlfriend, Saturday Night Live producer Lindsay Shookus, took the stage as the NBC show won Outstanding Variety Sketch Series.
"He jumped up and cheered when SNL won," an onlooker tells Us Weekly. "He's sitting with all of SNL in the center of the theater. He's clearly her plus-one."
Following the win, the onlooker tells Us that the couple were "holding hands and whispering and smiling."
As previously reported, the pair first made their romance public in July after going on several dates in NYC, London and Los Angeles. "He isn’t relieved that this information is out there," a source told Us at the time. "But he is very happy with Lindsay and doesn’t want to hide it.”
Another insider added: "He's enjoying spending time with her."
Affleck, 45, was previously married to Jennifer Garner, with whom he shares kids Violet, Seraphina and Sam. Sources have told Us that the 13 Going on 30 actress has accepted her ex moving on. “Jen knew about the new relationship and still chose to go on vacation with Ben for the 4th of July,” an Affleck source told Us of the former couple’s July Caribbean trip. “She is OK with it."
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Alec Baldwin couldn’t help but mention Donald Trump while accepting the Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series award at the 2017 Emmys on Sunday, September 17, at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles.
The 59-year-old actor, who was recognized for his spot-on impression of the president on the sketch comedy series, poked fun at Trump’s past comments about losing at the Emmys for his work on The Celebrity Apprentice.
“I suppose I should say — at long last, Mr. President, here is your Emmy,” Baldwin said to a roar of laughter and cheers.
If you remember, Hillary Clinton called out Trump during one of the debates for claiming the annual TV accolades were rigged, to which he responded, “Should have gotten it.”
Meanwhile, the Oscar nominee continued his speech with another dig at the commander in chief, saying, “I want to thank my wife — my wife [Hilaria] and I had three children in three years and we didn't have a child last year during the SNL season. I wonder if there is a correlation there. All you men up there, you put that orange wig on, it's birth control, trust me.”
“Thank you to Lorne [Michaels], always to Lorne, thank you to Chris [Kelly] and Sarah [Schneider] and [Erik] Kenward and all the great writers at SNL,” the Mission Impossible actor said. “Congratulations to Kate [McKinnon] and, thank you to the cast, thank you to Lindsay [Shookus] and to Grace for making me feel welcome there. Thank you to Steve for giving me a lot of encouragement. I want to say, if I leave anybody out I'm sorry, but I want to get this in: I always remember someone told me when you die you don't remember a bill that Congress passed or a decision the supreme court made, or an address made by the president — you remember a song, you remember a line from a movie, you remember a play, you remember a book, a painting, a poem — what we do is important. And for all of you out there in motion pictures and television, don't stop doing what you are doing, the audience is counting on you. Thank you.”
This was Baldwin’s third win and 18th nomination.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Stephen Colbert didn't hold back while taking jabs at President Donald Trump during his 2017 Emmy Award opening. The ceremony's host, 53, kicked off the 69th annual award show at L.A.'s Microsoft Theater on Sunday, September 17, leaving nothing off limits, including the president's claims the award show is rigged, excessive tweeting and more. (Watch a clip above!)
The bit started with the Late Show host, Allison Janney and Anthony Anderson discussing the current world issues before breaking out into a satirical musical number about how despite all of the issues, everything is better on TV.
Julia Louis Dreyfus, Chance the Rapper and more appeared throughout the musical number to sing about the nominated shows while also discussing current political issues, from Russian spies to women's health.
"Look on the bright side, Handmaids, at least your health care's free," Colbert sang, referring to The Handmaid's Tale. "At least our future's better on TV."
When Colbert took the stage, he took a moment to thank first responders who assisted during recent hurricanes Irma and Harvey, encouraging viewers to continue to donate. Soon after, he began to take jabs at Trump.
After acknowledging that there were more than 450 original scripted shows created this year, Colbert said,  "There's no way anyone could watch that much TV, other than the president." As the audience cheered, he added: "Looking forward to the tweets!"
"The biggest TV star of the last year is Donald Trump," Colbert continued.  "You can't deny every show is influenced by Donald Trump in some way. All the late night shows, obviously, House of Cards, the new season of American Horror Story, and of course next year's Latin Grammys hosted by sheriff Joe Arpaio. Muy caliente!" 
The host then referenced Trump's past issues with the annual awards ceremony. "We all know the Emmys mean a lot to Donald Trump because he was nominated multiple times for Celebrity Apprentice, but he never won," Colbert said. "Why didn't you give him an Emmy? If he had won an Emmy, I bet he wouldn't have run for president."
"I thought you people loved morally compromised antiheroes," Colbert continued. "You like Walter White? He's just Walter Much Whiter. He never forgave you and he never will. The president  has complained repeatedly that the Emmys are rigged."
Colbert then pulled up a tweet from 2014 in which the president bashed Seth Meyers as host, saying he had marbles in his mouth. When Colbert asked Meyers for a response, the camera panned to the Late Night host, who shook his head as marbles fell out.
Colbert showed yet another example of Trump's disdain over losing an Emmy as he played a clip from a 2016 presidential debate against Hillary Clinton. "There was even a time when he didn't get an Emmy for his TV program three years in a row and he started tweeting that the Emmys were rigged," Clinton said. Trump interrupted her, saying he "should've gotten it."
The audience erupted in cheers as the camera panned to Sarah Hyland, who was in tears from laughter.
To end the monologue, Colbert shocked the audience when he brought out Sean Spicer to let viewers know that this would be the biggest Emmys audience ever. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


It's no secret that Stephen Colbert isn't a fan of Donald Trump, so it didn't come as a huge surprise that he ripped into the president just 12 minutes into the 2017 Emmy Awards on Sunday, September 17.
During his opening monologue, the 53-year-old Late Show host, who helmed the ceremony, pointed out that The Celebrity Apprentice — which Trump, 71, hosted from 2008 to 2015 — was nominated for an Emmy in 2009, though it lost to Extreme Makeover: Home Edition. "Why didn't you give him an Emmy? If he had won an Emmy, I bet he wouldn't have run for president," Colbert quipped. "In a way, this is all your fault. I thought you people loved morally compromised antiheroes."
Colbert then poked fun at the real estate mogul winning the 2016 presidential election despite losing the popular vote to Democratic rival Hillary Clinton. "Unlike the presidency, Emmys go to the winner of the popular vote," the late-night host said as the star-studded audience cheered.
"Of course what really matters to Donald Trump is ratings," he continued. "You got to have the big numbers. And I certainly hope we achieved that tonight. Unfortunately at this point, we have no way of knowing how big our audience is. I mean is there anyone who can say how big the audience is? Sean, do you know?"
The camera then panned to former White House press secretary Sean Spicer, who was standing at a podium. "This will be the largest audience to witness an Emmys, period, both in person and around the world," he said, spoofing the press conference in which he berated the media for accurately reporting the lackluster size of the crowd at Trump's inauguration in January.
Colbert ended his monologue by thanking Melissa McCarthy, who won an Emmy this year for her portrayal of Spicer, 45, on Saturday Night Live. She watched the hilarious moment from the audience and grinned after the political aide's brief appearance.
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Tipping her hat. Kate McKinnon took a moment to thank Hillary Clinton during her speech after winning Best Supporting Actress in a Comedy at the 2017 Emmy Awards on Sunday, September 17, at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles.
The 33-year-old actress won for her role on Saturday Night Live, where she often impersonates the former presidential candidate. She took home the award in the same category in 2016.
“Thank you so much. Being part of this season of Saturday Night Live was the most meaningful thing that I will ever do,” the New York native began. “So I should just probably stop now. Thank you so much to [creator] Lorne Michaels for letting me be a part of this and for everything else in my life. Congratulations to our incredible cast, especially Vanessa [Bayer], Leslie [Jones] and Alec [Baldwin], love you all so much.”
She continued, “Thank you to our crew and thank you to our amazing writers. It's all about the writing, you guys. … On a personal note I want to say thank you to Hillary Clinton for your grace and grit.”
The Rough Night actress actually had dinner with the What Happened author in February in New York City. And if you remember, Clinton famously made an appearance on the sketchy comedy show in October 2015 alongside McKinnon, who was playing her in a skit at the time.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Anna Faris made her first public appearance at the 69th Primetime Emmy Awards on Sunday, September 17, since her split from Chris Pratt.
The Mom actress, 40, stunned in a purple halter dress and matching heels and kept her blonde tresses down. She appeared to not walk the red carpet outside L.A.’s Microsoft Theater.
As previously reported, Faris and Pratt, 38, announced last month that they are separating after eight years of marriage.
And she's off! @annafaris in @marcjacobs for #emmys2017
A post shared by Wendi and Nicole (@wendiandnicole) on Sep 17, 2017 at 3:05pm PDT
“We are sad to announce we are legally separating,” the former couple wrote in a joint statement at the time. “We tried really hard for a long time, and we’re really disappointed. Our son has two parents who love him very much and for his sake we want to keep the situation as private as possible moving forward. We still love each other and will always cherish our time together.”
Faris and the Guardians of the Galaxy actor met on the set of Take Me Home Tonight in 2007 and tied the knot in 2009. They are parents of son Jack, 5.
Faris opened up about their split during her Anna Faris Is Unqualified podcast on August 15. "I just want to thank you all so much for all the love I’ve been receiving, and I truly love you,” she told her listeners at the time.
Faris’ Mom costar Allison Janney would later discuss the exes during an interview with Entertainment Tonight on September 11. "She's a very courageous and strong girl and very professional and love her so much, as do[es] everyone. And we love Chris too. We love them both. It's sad when, you know, people who have to go separate ways, but we support them both and love them both very much,” she said. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Newlyweds’ night out! Emmy Rossum hit the red carpet looking stunning alongside new husband Sam Esmail at the 2017 Emmy Awards on Sunday, September 17, at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles.
The 31-year-old actress turned heads in a sparkly Zac Posen number with her hair swept to one side. She finished off the look with some gorgeous emerald-coloring jewelry.
Meanwhile, the Mr. Robot creator looked dapper in a matching black suit as they posed together before heading inside. This was the couple’s first red carpet appearance together since tying the knot in New York City on May 28.
Rossum’s Shameless costar William H. Macy is nominated for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series.
The hit Showtime series will be back for season 8 after the Phantom of the Opera alum resolved contract negotiations with the network, putting her pay level more equal to Macy’s, which he supported.
“She works as hard as I do. She deserves everything,” the Emmy nominee told TMZ in December 2016. “They wrote the Equal Rights Amendment in 1927. It didn’t get passed by both houses of Congress until 1972. It still hasn’t been approved by all the states. It’s about f--king time, don’t you think?”
Shameless returns for its eighth season November 5 on Showtime.

Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Shailene Woodley hasn't owned a TV in about seven years despite starring in Big Little Lies, one of the year's most talked-about shows.
"I technically don't have a home anywhere, so there's nowhere to put a TV," the actress, 25, admitted during a red carpet interview with E! News ahead of the 2017 Emmy Awards on Sunday, September 17.
"I haven't had a TV since I moved out of my parents' house at 18," she continued. "All my friends who watch TV, I always ask them when they have time to. When do people have time?"
The biggest reason Woodley doesn't flip through the channels? "I'm a reader," she explained. "So I always read a book instead of turning on my TV."
However, that doesn't mean she isn't thrilled about the astounding 16 nominations that Big Little Lies received this year. "So exciting," Woodley gushed. "It means people are hungry for shows like this. They want to celebrate shows like this when they have the opportunities to explore the emotionality behind the characters instead of just the plot lines, the story lines. You get to experience their inner workings. That, to me, is what is so exciting about the nominations."
Big Little Lies, which is based on Liane Moriarty's bestselling novel of the same name, aired on HBO from February to April. The series also starred Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman, Laura Dern and Alexander Skarsgård. Though it has yet to be picked up, fans have begged the cast and creators to return for a second season. Woodley, for her part, is down. "Of course I'd do it," she recently told Marie Claire U.K. "It would be so fun."
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Who knew? Sofia Vergara revealed on the Emmys 2017 red carpet that her husband, True Blood star Joe Manganiello, is a big “nerd.”
The Modern Family star, 45, was asked Jason Kennedy on E! Live From the Red Carpet on Sunday, September 17, to reveal something people wouldn’t know about her other half, who she wed in a glamorous ceremony in Palm Beach, Florida, in 2015.
And she didn’t hold back. 
“He’s a nerd,” the Colombian star said of the Magic Mike star, 40, who is currently in New York City shooting the film Stano.
“The highlight of his life is to play Dungeons & Dragons,” she added, referring to the fantasy role-playing game beloved by nerds around the world.
“He talks together with, like, eight friends,” Vergara — who wore a stunning white Mark Zunino dress — continued. “I do, like, a spread of food downstairs. He has a ‘dungeon’ room downstairs — spectacular. I decorate it for him.”
And what does she do while he’s battling demon lords? 
“I bring food,” she added. “He sits there for six to eight hours playing Dungeons & Dragons.”
But so far — while she’s embraced his passion for the Pittsburgh Steelers — Vergara hasn’t learned how to play D&D.
“I organize the figurines and put the cheese out,” she said.
The four-time Emmy nominee has been busy during her summer hiatus — she just finished shooting a movie called Bent in Italy with Andy Garcia.
Vergara plays a spy in the movie but insisted, “I’m not hot in the movie. I did bad makeup. I didn’t put [on] eyelashes, nothing.”
“I downplay[ed] myself,” she told Kennedy. “It was very hard.”
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly’s YouTube Page!


Absolutely sinful! Jessica Biel’s air conditioning didn’t work on the way to the 69th Primetime Emmy Awards in L.A. on Sunday, September 17, and yet she still looked absolutely flawless.
The Sinner actress, 35, joked about the brief heatwave in an Instagram selfie. “When the AC is broken en route to the Emmy's you thank God for the ice in your drank. #emmys,” she captioned the pic.
Biel attended the star-studded event at Microsoft Theater without hubby Justin Timberlake, but she did gush about their 2-year-old son, Silas.
When the AC is broken en route to the Emmy's you thank God for the ice in your drank. #emmys
A post shared by Jessica Biel (@jessicabiel) on Sep 17, 2017 at 3:31pm PDT
“Now he’s saying to me, ‘No, no, mommy. We’re not going to do this anymore’ and ‘this is not a match,’ which means he doesn’t want to do it anymore,” she told E! News’ Giuliana Rancic on the red carpet.
The 7th Heaven alum currently stars as Cora Tannetti in USA Network's The Sinner — and produces the thriller.
“[I like] the creative part of producing. I like working with the writers,” Biel said on Sunday night, noting that she may want to do more behind-the-scenes work in the future. “I like working with the actors.” 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Televisions biggest and brightest stars gathered for the 69th Annual Emmy Awards on Sunday, September 17, at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles to celebrate the best on the small screen.
Comedian Stephen Colbert, who was up for Variety Talk Series for Late Night With Stephen Colbert, hosted the star-studded show for the first time. Presenters included A-listers Oprah Winfrey, Alec Baldwin, Anna Faris, Reese Witherspoon and many more.
See the list of winners below!
Outstanding Drama SeriesBetter Call SaulHouse of CardsStranger ThingsThe CrownWINNER The Handmaid’s TaleThis Is UsWestworld
Outstanding Comedy SeriesAtlantaBlack-ishMaster of NoneModern FamilySilicon ValleyUnbreakable Kimmy SchmidtWINNER Veep
Lead Actress in a Drama Series
Viola Davis - How to Get Away With MurderClaire Foy - The CrownWINNER Elisabeth Moss - The Handmaid's TaleKeri Russell - The AmericansEvan Rachel Wood - WestworldRobin Wright - House of Cards
Lead Actor in a Drama SeriesWINNER Sterling K. Brown - This Is UsAnthony Hopkins - WestworldBob Odenkirk - Better Call SaulMatthew Rhys - The AmericansLive Schreiber - Ray DonovanKevin Spacey - House of CardsMilo Ventimiglia - This Is Us
Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama SeriesJonathan Banks - Better Call SaulWINNER John Lithgow - The CrownMandy Patinkin - HomelandMichael Kelly - House of CardsDavid Harbour - Stranger ThingsRon Cephas Jonas - This Is UsJeffrey Wright - Westworld
Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama SeriesWINNER Ann Dowd - The Handmaid's TaleSamira Wiley - The Handmaid's TaleUzo Aduba - Orange Is the New BlackMillie Bobby Brown - Stranger ThingsChrissy Metz - This Is UsThandie Newton - Westworld
Lead Actress in a Comedy SeriesPamela Adlon - Better ThingsJane Fonda - Grace and FrankieAllison Janney - MomWINNER Julia Louis-Dreyfus - VeepEllie Kemper - Unbreakable Kimmy SchmidtTracee Ellis Ross - Black-ishLily Tomlin - Grace and Frankie
Lead Actor in a Comedy SeriesAnthony Anderson - Black-ishAziz Ansari - Master of NoneZach Galifianakis - BasketsWINNER Donald Glover - AtlantaWilliam H. Macy - ShamelessJeffrey Tambor - Transparent
Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy SeriesLouie Anderson - BasketsTy Burrell - Modern FamilyWINNER Alec Baldwin - Saturday Night LiveTituss Burgess - Unbreakable Kimmy SchmidtTony Hale - VeepMatt Walsh - Veep
Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy SeriesVanessa Bayer - Saturday Night LiveLeslie Jones - Saturday Night LiveWINNER Kate McKinnon - Saturday Night LiveKathryn Hahn - TransparentJudith Light - TransparentAnna Chlumsky - Veep
Outstanding Lead Actress in a Limited Series or MovieFelicity Huffman - American CrimeWINNER Nicole Kidman - Big Little LiesReese Witherspoon - Big Little LiesCarrie Coon - FargoJessica Lange - FEUD: Bette and JoanSusan Sarandon - FEUD: Bette and Joan
Outstanding Lead Actor in a Limited Series or MovieEwan McGregor - FargoGeoffrey Rush - GeniusWINNER Riz Ahmed - The Night OfJohn Turturro - The Night OfBenedict Cumberbatch - Sherlock: The Lying DetectiveRobert De Niro - The Wizard of Lies
Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited Series or MovieWINNER Alexander Skarsgard - Big Little LiesDavid Thewlis - FargoAlfred Molina - FEUD: Bette and JoanStanley Tucci - FEUD: Bette and JoanBill Camp - The Night OfMichael Kenneth Williams - The Night Of
Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Limited Series or Movie
WINNER Laura Dern - Big Little LiesShailene Woodley - Big Little LiesJudy Davis - FEUD: Bette and JoanJackie Hoffman - FEUD: Bette and JoanMichelle Pfeiffer - The Wizard of Lies
Reality CompetitionWINNER The VoiceThe Amazing RaceTop ChefProject RunwayRuPaul’s Drag RaceAmerican Ninja Warrior
Variety Talk SeriesFull Frontal With Samantha BeeJimmy Kimmel Live!WINNER Last Week Tonight With John OliverThe Late Late Show With James CordenReal Time With Bill MaherThe Late Show With Stephen Colbert
Limited Series or MovieGeniusFargoThe Night OfFEUD: Bette and JoanWINNER Big Little Lies
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


She’s saying it like she means it! Wendy Williams is gearing up for the ninth season of The Wendy Williams Show, which premieres Monday, September 18, and the always outspoken host opened up to Us Weekly about what viewers can expect and much more.
Of Monday’s premiere, the 53-year-old former disk jockey told Us that she’s serving “nothing but hot topics” to the delight of her loyal audience, whom she calls “Wendy watchers.” 
And in the days following the show’s highly anticipated premiere, heavy hitting talent including Eva Longoria, Karrueche Tran and Bacherlorette star Rachel Lindsay (along with fiancé Bryan Abasolo) will all stop by the star’s purple couch for great conversation and lots of laughs. 
While The New York Times bestselling author admits she’s never seen an episode of the wildly popular ABC dating competition series, she revealed that she keeps tabs on celebs by doing a little research. “I read the magazines. I read Us,” she explained. “You don’t necessarily have to watch the show to be intrigued with the person.”  
And from what she told Us, Williams and Lindsay will have a lot to talk about. “With all those smarts, if my daughter wanted to do a reality show, I would crack her skull,” she said. “We send our daughter to a good college and then off to law school only for her to be clowing around on TV? I would be very upset. Reality shows aren’t for overly educated people.” 
The Think Like a Man actress, who will light the Empire State Building purple on Monday in honor of the show’s return, pointed out that while she doesn’t have a favorite celebrity interview, she did say a comedian, who appeared on a past episode of her show, is no longer welcome back after he “motor-boated” her during an interview.
As for the TV personality’s dream guest, an open invitation awaits Shia Labeouf. Williams has the Transformer actor’s picture framed and displayed in her office, noting that she likes her stars “young and hot with a bit of danger.” 
When the star is not entertaining fans with her popular advice segment “Ask Wendy,” she’s busy weighing in on the latest celebrity feuds. When asked if she was Team Taylor Swift or Team Katy Perry the HSN designer quipped, “Taylor. Katy is not worth 25 million dollars” (a reference to the “Swish Swish” singer’s American Idol salary). ... I still like her music though, it makes me feel young.”
Williams proved she’s just like Us. Her biggest fear? “Going broke,” adding that “all money is not good money.”  She mentioned that her most embarrassing moment includes public vomiting: “Please, I still party like I’m in college,” she joked. 
The ninth season of the Wendy Williams Show premieres Monday, September 18. Checking your local listings. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Get ready, fangirls! Simon Cowell’s new boy band, PRETTYMUCH, premiered their music video for their debut single “Would You Mind.” The quintet, which includes members Austin Porter, 19, Brandon Arreaga, 17, Edwin Honoret, 18, Nick Mara, 19, and Zion Kuwonu, 18, released their video worldwide on Friday, September 15, on MTV, MTV2, MTV Live and mtvU.
“Being in the group is one of the sickest things ever,” Kuwonu says in the beginning of the music video. “It’s a good vibe to be in this band.” In the clip, the boys are hanging out on the streets of Los Angeles, dancing in the rain with a big crowd, and end it with a black screen that reads: “To be continued.”
The video was filmed in L.A. and was directed by Emil Nava, who has worked with big names in the industry such as Calvin Harris, Ed Sheeran and Selena Gomez. The group shared a short video with their followers on Instagram to promote the release on Friday, writing: "Thank you guys for being a part of this journey with us. We had so much fun filming our music video, so we hope you guys feel it just as much as we do! 🎶🎥.”
Thank you guys for being a part of this journey with us. We had so much fun filming our music video, so we hope you guys feel it just as much as we do! 🎶🎥 (link in bio)
A post shared by PRETTYMUCH (@prettymuch) on Sep 15, 2017 at 9:17am PDT
The group’s lead single was released on July 21, and was written by hitmaker Savan Kotecha, who also worked with One Direction on their debut single, “What Makes You Beautiful.” The five guys are signed to Cowell’s label, Syco, and Columbia Records, and have been flooding their Instagram page with song covers and music videos since earlier this year after coming together in 2016.
Check out PRETTYMUCH’s debut music video for “Would You Mind” above.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


She's back! Jamie Lee Curtis will reprise her role as Laurie Strode in the 2018 reboot of Halloween.
"Same porch. Same clothes. Same issues. 40 years later," the actress, 58, tweeted on Friday, September 15, alongside a new photo of herself and masked villain Michael Myers. "Headed back to Haddonfield one last time for Halloween."
"Same porch. Same clothes. Same issues. 40 years later. Headed back to Haddonfield one last time for Halloween. Release date 10/19/18." pic.twitter.com/IvptiZctyw
Curtis first played Laurie in the original 1978 slasher film, which was also her debut on the big screen. She later returned for Halloween II (1981), Halloween H20: 20 Years Later (1998) and Halloween: Resurrection (2002), in addition to having a brief, uncredited voice role in Halloween III: Season of the Witch (1982).
The latest installment in the horror franchise will be directed by David Gordon Green. He will cowrite the script with his frequent collaborator Danny McBride. John Carpenter, who cowrote and directed the original movie, will executive produce the along with Green and McBride's Rough House Pictures.
Curtis most recently starred in the Fox satirical horror series Scream Queens, which was canceled in May after two seasons.
The new Halloween movie will be the 11th in the franchise and the first since Rob Zombie's remakes, which were released in August 2007 and August 2009.
Halloween hits theaters on October 19, 2018.
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Here’s comes the bride. Joy-Anna Duggar sat down with then-fiance Austin Forsyth to pick out their wedding cake in a new clip from next week’s September 18 episode of TLC’s Counting On.
The reality star, 19, and her now-husband, 23, seemed to have a little trouble figuring out exactly what kind of cake they wanted for the nuptials, which took place in Rogers, Arkansas, on May 26, just two months after getting engaged.
Duggar talked with the baker and expressed her desire for a three or four-tiered cake that was off-white and “really simple.”
“I’m open to a lot of ideas. I don’t know if I’m going to go more simple or more fancy. I’m going to just wait and see,” she told the cameras.
Meanwhile, Forsyth was surprised to find out how many little details go into every decision for the big day. “Being engaged and planning our wedding, there are a lot of decisions that have to be made that I never thought of,” he said, later adding, “It was a little more than I have ever thought about.”
The couple’s ceremony actually came several months before their previously scheduled wedding date of October 28. Following the big day, the duo enjoyed a romantic honeymoon in Switzerland.
"Saying our vows and saying 'I do' and committing our lives to each other is so incredible," the bride gushed at the time. "I am so blessed to be married to him."
Forsyth added, ”I’m just looking forward to getting to share my life, its good time and its challenges, with my best friend.”
The pair are currently expecting their first child together. "We’re so happy and thankful to announce that we’re expecting a baby!" Duggar told Us in a statement on August 30. "Every child is such a precious gift from God. I’m most looking forward to watching Austin as a dad and raising children together with him. “
Counting On airs Mondays at 9/8c on TLC.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Don’t mess with J. Law! Jennifer Lawrence appeared on Late Night With Seth Meyers on Thursday, September 14, and gave a play by play of her bar fight with a guy in Budapest. The actress, 27, was promoting her film Mother!, but things took a hilarious turn when she told the story of what exactly went down during the altercation in Hungary, where she was filming the movie Red Sparrow.
“I have another drinking story about Budapest,” she told the TV host. “I got in a bar fight! I got in a real bar fight!”
“That seems like a dangerous place to get into a bar fight,” Meyers, 43, said.
 Lawrence replied with a smile: “I mean, for him!”
"We were at a bar, it was beer night. We had a ton of beers, we were all drinking. I was drunk, which is rare," the Oscar-winner recalled. "I was drunk and this guy asked me for a selfie and I was like, ‘No. Thank you, no.' And then he was like, ‘Please, my girlfriend will never believe you! My friend was like, ‘If your girlfriend won’t believe you then she’s not the one.’ And so we were like, ‘Just go away.’ And then he goes, ‘Well, f--k you!”
The insult didn’t sit well with Lawrence and she said she felt something snap in her at that moment: “It couldn’t have been the alcohol.” She then confronted the guy and yelled repeatedly, “Did you just say ‘f--ck you’ to me? Did you just say ‘f--ck you’ to me?”
“I grabbed him and took beers, and I started dousing them all over him,” the actress added, revealing that she then proceeded to throw more beer on his suitcase. According to the Hunger Games actress, her friend Chris grabbed her from behind and started telling her to not waste any more beer and she instantly relaxed: “Of course! What was I thinking?”
As for the guy, he seems to have regretted crossing Lawrence. One of the star’s friends came out of the bathroom after the incident, and according to Lawrence, saw the guy "all wet and crying.”
Watch Jennifer Lawrence tell the hilarious story in the clip above. Mother! hits theaters on Friday, September 15, and Red Sparrow is slated for a March 2, 2018, release. Tune into Late Night with Seth Meyers on weeknights at 12:35 a.m. ET on NBC.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


What’s cookin’, good lookin’? Lo Bosworth show Us Weekly how to make a caramelized banana nut smoothie bowl that’s worthy of your Instagram feed. Watch the video above and cook along with her as she whips up the beautiful breakfast in her cozy New York City apartment.
“They’re perfect for breakfast, and they’re also perfect for your Instagram if you want to post a very glamorous picture of what you’re eating for breakfast,” the blogger and Hills alum says about the recipe.
Smoothie bowls recently became popular on social media because they’re not only easy and delicious, but also picture-worthy. Even better, you can customize your bowl to your preferences. If you want a pink smoothie bowl, add strawberries and raspberries. For a green smoothie bowl, add spinach.
And don’t forget the most important part — the toppings! Bosworth, 30, tops hers off with toasted coconut, spiced nuts and caramelized bananas, which she says are the “superstar of the smoothie bowl.”
The impressive breakfast dish is simple, beautiful and delicious, and reflects Bosworth’s cooking style: “I’m a laid-back chef. I kind of like to think that Julia Child was a laid-back chef and she’s my all-time cooking inspiration.”
Check out the full recipe below and be sure to keep up
with Bosworth on her lifestyle blog, TheLoDown.com.
Caramelized Banana Nut Smoothie Bowls
Smoothie
Serves 1
Handful of ice
1/2 cup almond milk
1 banana
1 tbsp agave
1-2 tbsp chia seeds
1/2 cup raspberries
1/4 cup strawberries
To a blender, add all ingredients. Blend at medium speed until smooth, about 1 or 2 minutes. Pour into serving bowl. If smoothie is too thin, place in freezer for a few minutes to thicken. Top with toasted coconut, caramelized bananas and spiced nuts. Add other toppings such as fresh fruit or seeds.
Toasted Coconut Topping
1/2 cup coconut flakes, shredded
Heat sauté pan over medium heat. Add 1/2 cup shredded coconut flakes to a dry pan. Don’t walk away from the pan. Stir for 1-2 minutes until edges are tan and browned. Lower heat or lift the pan off the heat if the pan is getting too hot. Set aside until ready to use.
Caramelized Bananas Topping
1 tsp coconut oil
1 banana, sliced
1 tsp agave
Heat coconut oil in sauté pan over medium heat. Add banana, then agave to pan. Stir until bananas have browned, about a minute. Spread out and set aside on parchment until ready to serve.
Caramelized Spiced Pecan Topping
1 tsp coconut oil
1 cup pecans
1 tsp agave
1/2 tsp turmeric
1/2 tsp cayenne
Heat coconut oil in sauté pan over medium heat. Add pecans, agave, turmeric and cayenne to pan. Stir until pecans are coated and glistening, about 2 minutes. Spread out and set aside on parchment until ready to serve.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


What gives? Big Brother's Alex Ow is finally explaining why she disliked fellow houseguest Kevin Schlehuber so much.
"Kevin was always doing things to me as a 'control' factor. He would purposely ask us the same questions, he would make big deals about nothing just to get under my skin," Ow, 28, exclusively tells Us Weekly. "He never once cooked a meal on his own, he would say snide comments, and mock me. He was very passive aggressive and irritating. He would tell all these gangster stories and tell these 'bad ass' stories. I just saw him as a fake and phony and would call him out on that – and he didn’t like it."
Ow was evicted from the CBS game on Wednesday, September 13, with Schlehuber, 56, following her to the jury house the next day.
Ow was clear about those she despised, but did she have a secret crush? "That's actually an interesting question — but no!" she says. "Paul [Abrahamian] is way too young. Cody [Nickson] is maybe too old? I had no crushes in the house. Outside of the house, I’m into super tall guys. Jason [Dent] is tall but he's married and I’m not going anywhere near that! I am not a homewrecker!"
For more, read the rest of her Q&A below:
US: Who did you trust more in the game — Paul or Jason?
AO: Absolutely 1000% Jason. I handpicked him as my ride or die for every step of the way. He sent Elena [Davies] out for me after the Outback veto competition. He was loyal, dedicated and I can’t thank him enough for the love and support he gave me the entire game. Jason all the way!
US: Why will you still tell Jason to vote for Paul if Jason was blindsided during his eviction?
AO: The one thing people forget to separate in Big Brother, is that it is a game. As much as I didn’t like that Paul blindsided and cheated us, Paul played the best game. I’m going to try my best to tell Jason because he deserves it most out of the people that are left. Paul has played a great mental, physical and social game and I want to reward that. Whoever did the best deserves to win.
US: Why did you put up Kevin and Raven Walton during the double eviction and not a bigger target like Paul or Christmas Abbott? AO: So, I didn’t put up Paul because he’s a part of our trio alliance. The reason I put up Kevin and Raven was because they were our original targets and I didn’t have a good relationship with either of them in the house. I thought Christmas and Josh [Martinez] would come through at the end but they took me out.
Big Brother airs on CBS on Sundays and Wednesdays at 8 p.m. ET and Thursdays at 9 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.



She approves! Andi Dorfman was in attendance at Us Weekly’s 2017 Most Stylish New Yorkers bash in The Jane Ballroom at The Jane Hotel on Tuesday, September 12, which was sponsored by Stella Artois, Bioré and Spike’s Ink Master: Angels — and she told Us exactly how she feels about the upcoming season of The Bachelor.
Fans of the ABC show were surprised when Arie Luyendyk Jr. was revealed as season 22’s Bachelor during Good Morning America on September 7, and the Bachelorette alum was no different.
“I think they took us for a crazy twist and turn. I don’t think anyone saw that coming,” she told Us on the red carpet. “But I think it’s cool, it’s kind of interesting. It’s going back a little old school.”
The reality star added: “I think it’s going to be interesting to see what girls come out of the past. I’m excited for that. I cannot wait to see what girls from Arie’s past come on the show.”
Dorfman also talked to Us about attending fellow Bachelor alum Sharleen Joynt's wedding to Andy Levine on Friday, September 8, in a small ceremony in NYC’s Battery Park City neighborhood. “It was great. We had a great time. It was Sharleen’s wedding and she was stunning, of course, as always,” she told Us. “It was also like a little Bachelor reunion, which was really fun.”
Her ex Nick Viall was also in attendance at the wedding, but even though they made amends earlier this year, they did not discuss his recent split from Vanessa Grimaldi. “No, we kind of all are friendly but it’s awkward to talk to your exes about their now current exes,” she told Us. “So we just don’t talk about it. We all sat together and had a great time.”
Congratulations to these two beautiful people. I've never met such a perfect couple, both equally lucky to have one another. I'm lucky to be able to call you both friends. Love you both #wedding #nyc
A post shared by Nick Viall (@nickviall) on Sep 9, 2017 at 7:33am PDT
In February of this year, Viall, 36, finally made peace with Dorfman, 30, during an episode of The Bachelor after she broke his heart when she gave her final rose to Josh Murray on The Bachelorette season 10 finale that aired in 2014.
The Bachelor returns to ABC in January 2018.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Can't score tickets to Hamilton? Just tune in to Dancing With the Stars! Jordan Fisher and his pro dance partner, Lindsay Arnold, are already brainstorming ideas for a dance routine inspired by the hit musical.
"We can say that it has been thought of! You'll just have to wait and keep voting us in so we can do it," Arnold, 23, exclusively told Us Weekly at Planet Hollywood in New York City on September 6. Fisher, also 23, chimed in, "Thrown out there!"
In the meantime, the actor-singer, who played John Laurens and Philip Hamilton in the Broadway production, has the full support of his castmates. "I'm the first Hamilton alum [on DWTS] so I'm excited to have support. We go deep," he told Us. "It's really nice to have that support and that love."
Despite his experience on stage, Fisher is going to need some practice as he hasn't had any prior ballroom training. "He thought the jive was referred to as swing. I was like, 'OK, no,'" Arnold quipped to Us. "It was actually really funny to watch because he's seen the show so he's heard the names. He called the Viennese waltz the Vietnamese waltz — wrong country! It's been funny to teach him those things because he's been a fan of the show and knows kind of the gist of it, but it's been fun to solidify those details."
And the Grease: Live star is already adjusting to his new role. "Seeing the translation from watching numbers to her teaching me a move and being like, 'Whoa, I've seen that move before. That's so cool!'" he told Us.
Dancing With the Stars season 22 premieres on ABC on Monday, September 18, at 8 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Heartbreak is a prominent theme on Fergie's upcoming second album, Double Dutchess. Amid the shocking news of the singer's split from husband Josh Duhamel, Us Weekly examines the most gut-wrenching lyrics from her latest solo effort.
Last November, Fergie, 42, released "Life Goes On" as the third single off the highly anticipated album. Many music critics noted at the time that the song dropped the same week that Donald Trump was elected president, but the lyrics appear to address a crumbling relationship rather than political unrest.
"Life goes on, with or without you / It's up to you what you're gonna do," she sings during the chorus. "You could go or you could stay / But who cares anyway?"
The former Black Eyed Peas singer also bares her soul on "A Little Work." In the first verse, she croons, "Got bruises on my heart, plenty of scars on my mind / Got blisters under the Band-Aid over my life / Gonna rip it open and show the world what's there." And later, she sings, "When everything around me starts to fall / I rise up again to the call / We're all just a little bit broken / We're all just a little bit hurt."
The album closes with the aptly titled "Love Is Pain," one of the rawest and most passionate ballads on the tracklist. "You don't know how it feels to be me / Wish you could feel it," Fergie begins. "You could never survive this burning / Fever growing inside a shell that you call a body / What have you done to us?"
#DOUBLEDUTCHESS 9.22.2017 👑👑The Album + Seeing Double: The Visual ExperiencePRE-ORDER: https://t.co/2xCEj7L7bC pic.twitter.com/vLtjtf0CJn
The "Fergalicious" singer and the Transformers actor, 44, announced on Thursday, September 14, that they had called it quits after eight years of marriage. "With absolute love and respect, we decided to separate as a couple earlier this year," the parents of 4-year-old son Axl said in a joint statement to Us. "To give our family the best opportunity to adjust, we wanted to keep this a private matter before sharing it with the public. We are and will always be united in our support of each other and our family."
Double Dutchess is out Friday, September 22.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


A member for the Beygency has spoken! Dancer and Taylor Swift BFF Todrick Hall is speaking out to Us Weekly about comparisons that were made between Swift and Beyoncé over her “Look What You Made Me Do” video. Watch the video above!
The Beyhive were quick to see similarities between “LWYMMD” and Beyonce’s 2016 “Formation” video, but Hall, 32, who previously worked on Beyoncé’s Lemonade and was one of Swift’s backup dancers in the video, was quick to shut it down.
“I was surprised because in the room and in the setting I didn't feel like this was a really Beyoncé-esque thing to do, but I can see because she has done that pose a lot,” Hall told Us Weekly. “Looking at the set I was just like this is not something that would be Beyoncé aesthetic. It was just a completely different aesthetic and I, as a board member of the Beygency, felt like if we were snatching something from Beyoncé I would have been like ‘OK, Taylor, one second.’”
However, the YouTube star and former American Idol contestant, does feel like Swift, 27, and Beyoncé, 36, do have a similar work ethic, saying that the “Ready For It” songstress showed up on set and took the choreography “very seriously.”
“I was so proud of her,” Hall said. “I could tell that she was a little bit nervous on set so I'm so glad that I was there to hold her hand through it and let her know that she looked great.”
In between dancing with Swift and creating his next viral YouTube video, Hall is now a mentor on the reboot of the Mickey Mouse Club. Disney debuted the new Club Mickey Mouse, which features a brand new crop of rising stars, on September 8 on Facebook.
“They are great dancers, singers, actors and musicians and a lot of them are really big on social media and have been known for being in music videos and working in the industry already,” Hall tells Us Weekly. “But to watch them working in this capacity and on this platform is really really awesome because they are all so talented in such different ways.”
To find out who Hall thinks “Look What You Made Me Do” is really about, watch the video above!
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Did they or didn’t they? That’s what fans were asking about Justin Bieber and Miranda Kerr. The Canadian pop star and the former Victoria's Secret model reportedly exchanged flirty text messages and kisses on the cheek after the 2012 Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show.
It wasn’t just fans who wanted to know. The brunette bombshell was still married to Orlando Bloom at the time. Kerr denied the allegations, but split from Bloom, with whom she shares son Flynn, in 2013 after three years of marriage. The rumor mill re-ignited in 2014 when Pirates of the Caribbean actor was spotted in a scuffle with the "Sorry" singer in Ibiza.
Us Weekly’s Famous Feuds on Friday will tackle Bloom vs. Bieber, and take a deep dive into what really happened between the sexy supermodel and the bad boy of pop music. The episode will also take a closer look at Kayne West and Taylor Swift’s epic clash.
Watch an exclusive sneak peek of Friday’s episode above.
Us Weekly's Famous Feuds airs on REELZ Fridays at 9 p.m. ET. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


They’ve still got it! Whoopi Goldberg, Kathy Najimy and Wendy Makkena reunited for an epic Sister Act reunion!
The leading ladies of the 1992 classic got together on The View on Thursday, September 14, to reflect on their favorite memories from filming. Najimy (Sister Mary Patrick) and Makkena (Sister Mary Robert) recalled the songs they sang for their auditions. Meanwhile, Goldberg (Deloris Van Cartier), who confirmed that she was really singing in the comedy, revealed that Bette Midler was initially going to portray her award-winning role!
“It was [her] movie and she couldn’t do it. She turned it down. They went through 100 million people and then got to me,” The View host, 61, joked.
Later in the episode, Maggie Smith (Mother Superior) surprised her former costars with a heartfelt message. “Hello, Whoopi. I can’t believe this is happening and it was 25 years ago. I would like to say hello to all of the nuns. I feel I must be the oldest nun left. Every single nun was wonderful,” the Harry Potter alum, 82, said via a pre-recorded video message. “And how are you? Because I remember the last time I saw you was rather sad. It was at the London Palladium and your mother was not well and I am sorry about that, but it was terrific to see you. But I have such fond memories of when we did those crazy, crazy films. And we laughed and laughed. I can’t believe it’s been 25 years. I send you lots of love and I wish I were with you.
When asked what it was like working with Smith, Goldberg explained, “I couldn’t believe she wanted to do the movie. I said, ‘You’re Maggie Smith. What are you doing here?’ She said, ‘Darling, I have to eat.’ She also said, ‘I have to act, it’s what I do. I want to be here. It seems like fun.’ When she came to see it, it was kind of extraordinary.”
The actresses also remembered a time when they had to stay in a not-so-nice hotel while shooting in Reno. “Kathy and I would get a little bored. We would be playing blackjack all day in our habits and nobody knew who we were,” Makkena reminisced. “That was fun.”
Najimy added: “The habit was great. You could get in anywhere. You could eat anything. In one of these hotel rooms, we ordered wine and fries as one does in a nun’s outfit.”
Watch the clip above to see your favorite nuns reunite in song!
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


The glitz, the glamour, the romance! The 2017 Primetime Emmy Awards are this weekend and they officially kick off our favorite time of the year – award show season! In celebration of the big night, Us Weekly is counting down our 10 favorite power couples from past Emmy Awards. Watch the video above to see who made the list!
10. Leslie Mann and Judd Apatow
Stand by your man, and by man we mean This is 40 actress Leslie Mann. She and husband, producer and writer Judd Apatow, are the definition of a Hollywood power couple. Apatow has six Emmy nominations and one win under his belt – but who’s counting!
9. Jerry Seinfeld and Jessica Seinfeld
Emmy Vet Jerry Seinfeld may only have one Emmy win and 12 nominations, but he’s got the grand prize with his wife, producer Jessica Seinfeld.
8. Sofia Vergara and Joe Manganiello
The red carpet always gets a little hotter with our next couple. Four-time Emmy nominee Modern Family actress Sofia Vergara and her husband, Magic Mike actor Joe Manganiello, made their Emmy red carpet debut in 2015.
7. Bruce Willis and Demi Moore
We can’t forget about Bruce Willis and Demi Moore. This Emmy-winning power couple hit the red carpet together in 1997. Though they didn’t get their happily ever after, they will forever be remembered as one of Hollywood’s hottest duos.
6. Heidi Klum and Seal
Emmy winner Heidi Klum and Seal always looked smokin’ hot on the red carpet, but their love wasn’t kissed by a rose. The couple announced their split in 2012 after almost seven years of marriage.
5. Jesse Tyler Ferguson and Justin Mikita
Enough with the breakups though! Five-time Emmy nominee and Modern Family actor Jesse Tyler Ferguson and hubby Justin Mikita always give us an overdose of cuteness.
4. Felicity Huffman and William H. Macy
One of Hollywood’s hottest and longest-standing power couples – Desperate Housewives actress Felicity Huffman and Shameless actor William H. Macy are not only stylish, but are both Emmy winners.
3. John Krasinski and Emily Blunt
Jim and Pam from The Office never got together in real life … but you know who did? Emily Blunt and John Krasinski. While he’s only been nominated for an Emmy twice, they are the definition of #couplegoals.
2. Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt
Ah, the early 2000s – the days of Friends and our favorite red-carpet power couple – Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston. They may not have made their romance work, but they always looked oh-so-good on the red carpet.
1.     Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick
Sarah Jessica Parker and hubby, actor and producer Matthew Broderick, have been giving us all the red carpet feels since 1997. Along the way she’s picked up two Emmys and a whole lot of style wins!
Cant wait to see what the couples bring to the red carpet this award show season! Tune in Sunday, September 17 to watch the big event.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


He’ll float too! James Corden dressed as the demonic, shape-shifting clown, Pennywise, from the horror remake It.
In a hilarious spoof on The Late Late Show with James Corden on Wednesday, September 13, an office worker, Tim, with a faulty computer requests help from the I.T. department. Apparently a miscommunication unfolded, because Tim is greeted by none other that Pennywise himself!
“I see the problem. You called the I.T. department and I’m It. So there’s been a mixup,” the British late-night host, 39, in character, tells Tim. “It’s not your fault, it happens all the time.”
Corden then proceeds to help Tim try to fix his computer. In a nod to the cult classic where Pennywise can be seen lurking through the sewers, Tim catches a glimpse of just Corden’s head in between his office files!
“I’m helping you look for your password,” Corden explains to a terrified Tim.
Moments later, the film’s iconic red balloon rises from behind the computer. “I’m not trying to scare you! It was under the desk, it was easier to come up from this side,” he clarified, adding that the balloon was “blocking the wifi signal.”
Tim, clearly frustrated, grabs a pen to pop the balloon. “I wouldn’t,” Corden warns. “I wouldn’t, if I was you.” Tim does so anyway, only to be splattered by red paint — in the movie, Beverly Marsh encountered a similar red balloon full of blood.
When Tim complains that he has a meeting in 20 minutes and his clothes are now messed up, Corden gets real. “Oh, come on. Everyone knows you don’t pop a murderous clown’s balloon,” he said. “That’s on you.”
Shortly after, one of Tim’s colleagues enters the room. “Hey, Penny,” she greets Corden before reprimanding Tim. “Everyone knows you don’t pop the scary clown ballon. What is this, amateur hour?”
Watch the clip above to see if any more villains come to scare Tim!
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Nobody puts Baby in the corner! Jessica Biel made quite an entrance for her appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show on Thursday, September 14, by nailing the iconic lift from the movie Dirty Dancing. After successfully recreating the dance move, she even credited her husband Justin Timberlake for helping her practice it at home.
Biel wore a form-fitting, black and red dress and paired it with red and blue heels as she came out through the stairs behind the audience. Stephen "tWitch" Boss waited for her in the crowd and they walked onto the stage holding hands as Bill Medley and Jennifer Warnes’s song “The Time Of My Life” started playing. The pair broke into a choreographed dance, and that's when the show’s DJ took his hat off as the actress jumped into his arms and he lifted her in the air.
The TV host seemed shocked by the move telling the 7th Heaven star: "That was so brave of you!" and Biel, 35, replied, "I trust him!" pointing at Boss. “That was fantastic,” DeGeneres said. “Somebody now has to top that entrance. That is the best entrance we’ve ever had.”
"Well, see that’s what happens when I was speaking to producers and they said, ‘You still hold the record for the longest dancing,' which was so humiliating when I went back and looked at it because I'm not a good dancer really," Biel said, referring to her past entrance on the show. "So I was thinking 'What am I going to do?' This is season 15, and you're doing new stuff!"
Biel confessed that although landing the move looked effortless, it did require some practicing at home. "Justin is a really good dancer, have y’all tried that?" DeGeneres asked her. “I make him do stuff like that all the time, his back goes out. It’s a disaster," the actress said. "Certainly, all the time. In the pool, outside of the pool. It's a little easier [in the pool], yeah."
Dancing is not the only area in which the "Can't Stop the Feeling" singer steps in to help his wife: "I’m not a great cook but I do like to attempt and I do have some help sometimes," she confessed about her skills in the kitchen. "He’s more of a breakfast — he likes to cook breakfast."
The star was on the show to promote her new show The Sinner and said that sometimes it gets awkward to do kissing scenes as an actor if you have a spouse. "Well, it's one of those weird things where when you're married to an actor, you kind of have to be OK with," she said. "It's never like, 'Yeah, alright! Fist bump, yeah!' It's never that, but, you know, you understand, and he has to do it so you just get used to it I guess… a little bit. This one was a lot, I do have to say that.”
In the USA series, Biel's character is a young mother who is trying to find out what is causing her to have fits of rage after she doesn't know why she committed a violent crime.
New episodes of The Sinner air Wednesdays at 10 p.m. ET on USA.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


They’re back! After 10 years off the air, Trading Spaces is heading back to TV and bringing some of its beloved stars along for the ride. TLC announced on Wednesday, September 13, that designers Ty Pennington, Hildi Santo-Thomas, Genevieve Gorder, Carter Oosterhouse, Doug Wilson and Vern Yip are joining the show's 2018 reboot.
The group announced their return via a short video on the network's website. "We're getting the band back together!" Pennington declared. "I'm so excited to see some of their faces. I mean, I haven't seen some of these people literally in decades!"
TLC also revealed the seasoned vets will be joined by some new designers: “Joining these familiar faces are new design experts and carpenters Brett Tutor, Joanie Sprague, John Gidding, Kahi Lee and Sabrina Soto. With a combined over 30 years of experience between them, this lineup is well-equipped to help homeowners tackle their ambitious redesign projects.”
The network previously announced on July 19 that Paige Davis is returning to host after leaving in 2005. "I will be hosting Trading Spaces again. I'm back at TLC, back home and back where I belong," the TV personality, 47, also said in a video.
The home renovation reality show ran from 2000 to 2008, and was hosted by Alex McLeod in the first season before Davis took over for season 2. Davis served as the host of the reality series from 2001 to 2004 until she was taken off the show in January 2005 as the network tested a host-free format. She briefly returned in 2008 before the series came to an end after season 8.
The home-redesign show features two sets of neighbors who are put to the test as they redecorate a room in each others' homes. The teams have two days and a $1,000 budget to complete the redesign with the help of a professional designer and carpenter. Teams have no control over the redecoration in their own home and aren’t allowed to re-enter their own home until the reveal.
The new season of Trading Spaces is slated for a 2018 return on TLC. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Red carpet ready … almost! Us Weekly is gearing up to attend the 2017 Emmy Awards in Los Angeles, but there is one thing that is needed for the big event: a dress. Us Weekly Correspondent, Christina Garibaldi, headed to the Bloomingdale’s flagship in NYC, where fashion director Erica Russo took her on a tour of the best red carpet looks. However, she’s having a hard time making a decision, so we need your help. Watch the video above and vote on your favorite dress!
First up was an Avery G burgundy velvet off-the-shoulder gown, which Russo admits is “one of the biggest trends all over the runway.” However, Garibaldi couldn’t resist the allure of a statement red dress, which would perfectly complement the carpet.
“Red was probably one of the biggest trends to go throughout all four cities of fall fashion week," Russo tells Us Weekly. “Fendi walked head-to-toe looks of red down the runway, and Givenchy, every single look in his line was head-to-toe red.”
Yet, nothing says fall like floral, which, according to Russo, is “having such a moment.” The Avery G navy oversized floral look mixed elegance and sexiness with a vintage feel, creating a statement look for the carpet.
However, it appears that fall 2017 is all about the ‘90s! Garibaldi slipped into a Jarlo slip dress, which was not only comfortable (key to a red carpet), but also sleek and sophisticated as well.
“What I love about this one is it’s very modern,” Russo explained. “Then of course this great little keyhole moment that’s happening is really important and really on trend.”
So which dress should our correspondent wear on the carpet? Watch the video and vote for your favorite!


No more drama! Danielle Staub was among the celebrities who attended Us Weekly’s 2017 Most Stylish New Yorkers bash, which was sponsored by Stella Artois, Bioré and Spike’s Ink Master: Angels, at The Jane Ballroom at The Jane Hotel on Tuesday, September 12, and she told Us all about her upcoming return to The Real Housewives of New Jersey.
“I am so ready," Staub told Us. "Everything aligned perfectly." News broke earlier this year that the star will rejoin the Bravo show for the upcoming eighth season, marking her return since leaving after season 2. During her run on the show, there were a lot of fights between Staub and Teresa Giudice, but the two have since put their past feuds behind them, even calling things between them “perfect.”
“We’re really good. I just don’t think there’s going to be any problems between she and I,” Staub told Us on the red carpet. “I don’t think that anyone would want to do that to us again.” She continued, “We had a hard time. We had a long road back to each other, so it’s really amazing to have this side of her again in my life and the rest of the cast, too.”
The two reality stars took a yoga class together in October 2016 and posted pictures of the moment on social media. "We reconnected and it has been so natural and great,” Staub told Us at the time. “Today was the first time I have seen her in all these years. She reached out to me a few weeks ago to talk and catch up on our families.”
Just because the pair have made amends doesn’t mean the new season will be without some turmoil. “So much that you guys are going to be sitting at the edges of your seats,” she said about the show. “Get the popcorn ready, I’m telling you right now!”
The Real Housewives of New Jersey returns for season 8 on Wednesday, October 4, at 9 p.m. ET on Bravo.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Frankie Muniz is in high demand. In an exclusive interview with Us Weekly, the Malcolm in the Middle alum revealed that the producers of Dancing With the Stars have been trying to get him to compete on the show for more than a decade.
"I've been asked, I think, every year for the past 12 years," Muniz, 31, told Us at Planet Hollywood in New York City on September 6.
Now that he has finally committed to joining the season 25 cast, the actor is going to have to overcome some personal obstacles. "To be honest, my biggest fear is dancing in public," he admitted. "No joke. I want to because I love to dance in my room by myself, but if anyone is around, my body just doesn't move. It just doesn't."
Muniz has turned to previous competitors for advice. "I've had a bunch of friends that have done the show and everyone has said this is so much fun and it looks like a blast," he told Us. "Honestly, this last week of rehearsals has been amazing. I feel like I've learned a lot and I'm progressing."
The Emmy nominee's pro partner, Witney Carson, has been giving him some tough love already. "I told her when I met her, 'Don't go easy on me. Obviously I've never danced. If you tell me to do something, I don't know what it is,'" he said. "I'd rather it be serious, even though we have so much fun in the rehearsals. We are always laughing and joking around, but when it's time to dance, we get through it. I'll think I did good and she'll be like, 'Nope, your shoulders droop.' So we do it again. But I love it, I really do."
Though the season hasn't kicked off yet, Muniz and Carson, 23, are already trying to figure out who their biggest competition might be. "Nick Lachey," she predicted, while the Big Fat Liar actor joked, "All these people dance like they perform. I just sit at home and watch TV!"
Dancing With the Stars premieres on ABC on Monday, September 18, at 8 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


The Olympics are heading to Hollywood! The 2028 Olympic and Paralympic Games will be held in Los Angeles, the International Olympic Committee announced on Wednesday, September 13.
This is the first time the Olympics are being held back in the United State since the Games were hosted in Atlanta, Georgia, in 1996. L.A. has hosted the Olympics twice previously in 1932 and 1984, but this will be the first time the city hosts the Paralympics.
Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said, “This is a momentous day for the people of Los Angeles and the United States. For the first time in a generation, we are bringing the Games back to the City of Angels. L.A. loves the Olympics because the Games have lifted up our city twice before. But to us the Games have always represented an even brighter future and the chance to harness the power of sport and the Olympic Movement again to inspire the next generation – for the next 11 years and beyond.”
L.A. 2028 Chairman Casey Wasserman said: “This 11-year agreement with the IOC is the ultimate validation of L.A. 2028’s New Games for a New Era, and Los Angeles’ vision for the future. As a team and as a city, we could not be more excited to be entering into this long-term partnership with the Olympic and Paralympic movements, and with one of the great cities of the world, Paris. This will be an extraordinary collaboration that secures the future of the Movement for generations. Now L.A. 2028 has a golden opportunity, with four more years to prepare and a $2 billion contribution from the IOC, to redefine how hosting the Games can benefit host communities.”
It was also announced today that the 2024 Olympics will be held in Paris.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


As the proverbial saying goes, Bachelor contestants just aren’t here to make friends.
That is, until they go to Mexico. Following a halt in production on season 4 of ABC’s Bachelor in Paradise, the cast was inevitably only given 11 days to potentially find love — and lust. But in the end, they scored something better than a Neil Lane sparkler: a new family, so says contestant Jack Stone.
“This has been such a tough season to go through for all the obvious reasons,” Stone exclusively tells Us Weekly. “So much could have gone wrong. This entire franchise could have gone under. So if the worst case scenario is that we all became friends and continue on that way in the real world, I think that’s great.”
Naturally though, the journey from start to finish had its dramatic moments. During his stay at the Playa Escondida resort, the Bachelorette season 13 alum witnessed DeMario Jackson and Corinne Olympios’ pool dalliance, romanced Christen Whitney — now infamously known as "Scallop Fingers" — and shot down twins Emily and Haley Ferguson. 
“Overall, Paradise was a crazy experience,” the single hunk, 32, says. “But we all became close friends, even family.”
The Dallas-based lawyer, who is very much not a serial killer, takes Us on another dramatic journey.
Us Weekly: Let’s start at the beginning. Did you suspect anything wrong between DeMario and Corinne on day one?
Jack Stone: That first day everybody was just overwhelmed. There was so much going on. No one really ate a lot, there was drinking and you’re also just meeting everyone. I wasn’t really paying attention to what was going on with DeMo and Corinne. I was trying to just get to know all the girls. I was like, "Oh, there’s a rose ceremony coming up!" I don’t think anyone noticed anything out of the usual.
Us: What ran through your mind when producers said they were turning off cameras and sending the cast home?
JS: Truthfully, I thought someone died. We were about to go to the rose ceremony. The producers came in, the cameramen were gone and they said, “We have to talk to you guys.” It was a really surreal moment. Everyone was like, “What is happening?” They were very vague and said, “Two people were involved in something.” We could tell who the two were because they weren’t there anymore. It was a weird experience to go through.
Us: How would you describe your connection with Christen?
JS: Christen has a good heart. She’s quirky. She came into all this drama pretty late in the game. I think she knew she was about to go home and I thought to myself, “She deserves a chance to see if there’s a connection here, whether it’s with me or someone else.” That’s why I initially gave her a rose. I just looked at her as a friend, although there were some things that you do with more than friends. Because it was so expedited, I didn’t to get to know her better.
Us: During your conversation on the finale, why did you decide to go your separate ways?
JS: At the end of they day, I was like, “Hey, I came here to see if I could have a connection with anyone and it would be great to stay in touch afterwards.” I thought we could leave as friends. We were the first couple to have this conversation about the next step so there was a lot of confusion about leaving together or separately. That’s when I said, "Can we redo this?"
Us: And just like that you were sent home?
JS: Someone had to go pack my bags for me and give me my stuff later in the day! It was so silly because here’s a girl that I wasn’t in love with. We thought that we could get in the car together as friends but then we were stopped in our tracks when we were talking about it.
Us: Do you see yourselves together post-show?
JS: I don’t think that there was anyone there that if I met them right now in my hometown I would say, “I really want to go out with you.”
Us: Do you still talk?
JS: Yes, we’re all friendly with each other. I don’t know anyone that isn’t talking to each other!
Us: Alright let’s talk twins. Why did you turn them down for a date?
JS: When the twins came in, I just got bad vibes from them. I didn’t care to go on a date with them and I don’t think they cared to go on a date with me. Why would I want to waste my time with them when I could spend my last night with guys and girls who actually came to be like family? Another part of the reason was because I wanted to get to know Christen more. I thought it would be the right thing to at least try.
Us: You’ve talked a lot about the bonds between everyone. Are the twins just as close with everyone, too?
JS: I think they’re off on their own. They alienated themselves. I think that people are tired of the antics. At this point, we’ve seen it already. It’s not funny anymore. The first day they got there I tried to be nice. They just weren’t there to make friends. It was very clear they were there to promote themselves. Arguably, a lot of people are, but at least put on a good face.
Us: Do you think Corinne was there to promote herself too? She did shout-out her clothing line on the finale!
JS: I don’t know what everyone’s agenda is for going on the show and I’m not going to speculate. Hopefully finding a connection with someone is on that list. But to say that’s No. 1 on the list is very far-fetched.
Us: Taylor [Nolan] and Derek [Peth] got engaged on the finale. How do you think their relationship will fare?
JS: Taylor and Derek have the best chance of anyone taking it to the next level after this season. Just the way they were around each other from the very beginning was so natural.
Us: How about Raven [Gates] and Adam [Gottschalk]?
JS: They get along great. They’ve been hanging out and traveling a lot together since the show. I hope it turns into something real and continues to go down that path.
Us: OK, big question: Are Danielle [Maltby] and Wells [Adams] friends…or something more?
JS: I think they’re just friends. I think they’ve had a really strong friendship for awhile but haven’t been romantically interested in each other. Obviously, there was a little spark there but they’ve kind of gone back to being friends, which I think is great.
Us: Would you do this all again?
JS: As of now, I don’t think so!
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


It’s serious! Big Brother’s Raven Walton has no doubts that she and Matthew Clines will remain close once they both return to the real world.
“Oh, goodness. My relationship with Matt is something special. We just clicked on many different levels. He wanted to know everything about my disease, he was there to console me when I wasn’t feeling well and he’s one of the best humans I’ve ever met,” the 23-year-old dance teacher exclusively tells Us Weekly.
“We were together in the house for 72 days. We couldn’t get enough of each other!” she adds. “We looked at each other like we were cake. People will have to stay tuned but I do believe we have a future outside of the house.” (Walton has been open about the gastric pacemaker she uses to treat her chronic illness, gastroparesis.)
Walton was evicted from the CBS show just one week after Walton, 33. They both will soon be in the jury house with fellow showmance couples Cody Nickson and Jessica Graf and Mark Jansen and Elena Davies.
As for which relationship will outlast the rest? “Definitely Matthew and I!” Walton says. “Jessica and Cody fought all the time! We were just the real showmance. We honestly liked each other a lot. We had to be around each other. I think Matthew and I will be a couple outside of this house.”
For more, read the rest of her Q&A below:
US: Did you really trust Paul Abrahamian? Do you think you could have beat him in final two?
RW: I really did trust Paul with my whole game. Honestly, I don’t think I would have beat him in final two and that is OK with me. My moral compass would not have allowed me to take anyone else to the final two. Even Matthew said, Paul and I needed to go to the end.  I would rather lose the game and keep my moral compass.
US: Did you think that Zingbot took it too far with his jokes?
RW: No, I don’t think so. It is what it is! Matthew and I were together all the time and we did everything together. He was like, ‘So you’re saying I won a hot girl? I’m fine with that.’
US: Matt sometimes teased how you mumble. Do you get that a lot from people?
RW: [Laughs] Yes, I do sometimes. It’s definitely the accent and I can talk very fast too.  When I get excited, it would all come out at the same time. Matthew would get me flustered and he enjoyed doing that and honestly it was funny to me too since I know I mumble. He said when I come visit him in DC he’ll have to be my translator.
Big Brother airs on CBS on Sundays and Wednesdays at 8 p.m. ET and Thursdays at 9 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


She’ll be bringing her A game! Sasha Pieterse is ready to hit the ballroom — and ready to bring the Mirrorball trophy home.
“I’m 100% competitive. Everyone has been so nice and friendly so that aspect I don’t think will change. But like, I’m going to win,” the Pretty Little Liars alum, 21, exclusively told Us Weekly at the season 25 announcement in NYC earlier this month.
“Sasha is a really hard worker. We literally will have no breaks,” her pro partner, Gleb Savchenko, chimed in. “We’ll go four hours, a straight four hours. She puts on her shoes and takes them off at the end of rehearsal. Standing in high heels.”
She’s already hurting from the strenuous workouts, though. “[I’m] so sore. Ice baths and sore in places that I didn’t even know were possible. That is a challenge, but I feel like it’s awesome and it’s conditioning,” she added to Us. “There is no turning back now, but I’ve been having so much fun.”
Pieterse’s parents were professional dancers, but says that she doesn’t have much experience herself. “I think I have rhythm but all of the technical stuff I don’t so Gleb has been helping me,” she explained. “He’s amazing. He’s such a great teacher and partner.”
Pieterse’s support system also includes her former PLL costars Lucy Hale, Shay Mitchell, Troian Bellisario and Ashley Benson. “I hope [they come],” she told Us. “Their schedules are crazy right now, but I know a bunch of them are planning to, so that will be fun. It’ll be like a little reunion.”
Season 25 of DWTS premieres on Monday, September 28, on ABC at 8 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Back to the Upside Down! More trouble lies ahead for Will Byers (Noah Schnapp) on Stranger Things.
“Will Byers, who was sort of trapped in the Upside Down for most of season 1, now has a much more sinful role, which we’re really excited about,” co-creator Ross Duffer exclusively told Us Weekly at the Emmy Nominations for Outstanding Casting Cocktail Reception in Beverly Hills on September 7.
“Noah is just an incredible actor and he really didn’t get a lot to do season 1,” he continued. “So we’re excited about that.”
The Netflix smash left off with Will coughing up a slug-like being in the bathroom during Christmas dinner. Clearly not fully recovered from his Upside Down trauma, he kept the incident a secret from his family.
“It’s not too heavy, in terms of horror. So that’s why we wanted to push it a little bit. We’ve gotten the kids comfortable,” Matt Duffer told Us of what’s to come. On whether their goal is to freak out the young actors even more? “That’s the goal,” he added. “We’ll see if we’re successful or not.”
Last month, the Duffers revealed that they at one point thought of doing a time jump with the young actors. “The most shocking thing to me is how much these characters have aged,” Ross told Us. “Because when I go back and watch season 1, they look like tiny babies. So different from where they are now. It’s incredible how quickly the kids have grown up.”
Stranger Things also stars Winona Ryder, David Harbour, Millie Bobby Brown, Gaten Matarazzo, Caleb McLaughlin and Finn Wolfhard.
Season 2 of Stranger Things drops on Friday, October 27, on Netflix.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


So in love! Jessie James Decker gushes over her husband Eric Decker's good looks in Us Weekly's exclusive sneak peek of the Wednesday, September 13, episode of Eric & Jessie.
"Now that I have a break in my practice schedule, I'm gonna jump on a plane, head down to Nashville and enjoy some family time," the Tennessee Titans wide receiver, 30, says in a confessional.
Ahead of his flight, he FaceTimes with his wife of four years. "You look so hot," the country singer, 29, gushes as Eric responds, "I did my hair for you."
"You ever get tired of me telling you that all the time?" Jessie quips to Eric, with whom she shares daughter Vivianne, 3, and son Eric Jr., 2. "I picked a good man to make babies with 'cause our babies are so cute."
The couple then reflect on Jessie's pregnancies. "I sure did get big when I was pregnant," she admits as the athlete responds, "The first one, with Vivianne, [you were a] big girl!"
"You liked it! It was more pushin' for the cushion. No, more cushion for the pushin'," Jessie says. "You liked that extra meat on me, didn't you? A lot more things to grab."
The "Wanted" singer then tells her hubby that their children are spending some time with her mother, Karen Parker, in Florida. "Vivi had a sandwich and a half," she boasts. After Eric says their little girl only ate half of the sandwich that he made for her the week prior, Jessie replies, "You're not a good sandwich maker. I just think Mama makes some really good sandwiches. Even when I'm around you won't let me make the sandwiches. You want Mom to make your sandwiches! She puts some cougar love in there for you."
Eric & Jessie airs on E! Wednesdays at 10 p.m. ET.
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Mixing business with pleasure! Vanessa and Nick Lachey may be battling it out on Dancing With the Stars, but the couple swear that they aren’t competitive with each other.
“We are having fun doing this together. We’ve been doing this for 10 years so this is giving us a whole other dynamic in our relationship and I’m excited to see [what happens],” Vanessa, 36, exclusively told Us Weekly last week. “I’m proud of us for doing it together.”
The Lacheys did a spouse swap for the ABC show’s 25th season. While Vanessa is teamed with Maks Chmerkovskiy, Nick, 43, is partnered with the Ukrainian hunk's wife, Peta Murgatroyd.
“We don’t practice dancing with each other but it is nice because of the massages,” Vanessa told Us. “I’m like, I’ll rub your feet you rub my feet. That is fun. It really is another layer to our relationship. I can’t wait for the first live show, and I can’t to watch him. We did a little show the other day, we were at the same studio, and Maks and I came in and they showed us a little bit of their routine and we showed them a little bit of what we learned.”
She added: “It would be fun if we all made it to the finals.”
Vanessa admitted that she doesn’t really enjoy the gym, though. Luckily, Chmerkovskiy, 37, has no intention of pushing her to the extreme like her past “intense trainers.”
“It kind of seems childish. You have these grownups come, they signed on to do a show. It’s not like we’re in a summer camp together, and here I am making them do warmups and pushups and all that. It’s not me man,” he told Us. “I want to do my best and I want her to do her best too so we can do our thing. When I speed things up faster and faster, I know that there’s a leg that is able to do it. What is the point of pushing someone that I know for a fact that some of these people cannot be pushed? If you push, it’s going to break, and nobody wants that.”
Season 25 of DWTS premieres on Monday, September 28, on ABC at 8 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


No more friendship. Jason Dent has no kind words to say about fellow houseguest Paul Abrahamian — and he doesn’t think the jury house will either.
“I think he sabotaged himself. I think he’s toast now,” the rodeo clown, 37, exclusively tells Us Weekly. “I don’t think they’re going to vote to let him win.”
Dent has reason to be angry. The Iowa native was voted out of the Big Brother house in a blindside that left him speechless — literally. He stormed off past the cast without saying a word and got heated during his eviction interview with host Julie Chen.
Head of Household Christmas Abbott was the one to deliver the bad news as the tie breaker vote. As Dent would later learn in the goodbye messages, it was Abrahamian that schemed the plan. (Josh Martinez tearfully revealing the backstabbing idea in his message may have been his best move yet.)
“The only houseguest I needed to say something to was Christmas, and I just wanted to say, ‘Do not do this,’” Dent tells Us. “But I still thought, when it was 2-to-2, I thought, ‘You sly dogs, you really want to make this show-worthy to vote off Kevin [Schlehuber].’ But boy was I wrong. I had faith in my team until Christmas said my name. I thought I was safe.”
For more, read the rest of his Q&A below:
US: Did you think a blindside was going to happen when Josh started crying in the hot tub with you?
JD: That did cross my mind. I was wondering why. It really crossed my mind in the wave room the morning of the vote. I was wondering why he was saying he was lonely. In the hot tub, he said he was a big super fan and really understood the game and knew what he was doing and was putting on an act. I thought he was just saying that because everyone wants to believe they have some control. Then in the wave room I thought he was definitely coming unhinged.
I thought I’d need to do some buddy control, that what I needed to tell him was, ‘I want to take you to the final two.’ So he could feel included. I didn’t give him anything, so I figure he thought, ‘I’m voting you off.’
US: What’s the biggest game move you wish you would have made?
JD: I wish I would have put up Matt [Clines] and Raven [Walton] when I won my first HOH instead of Mark [Jansen] and Elena [Davies]. That wasn’t what I wanted to do, it’s what my pals wanted to do, and I should have done what I wanted.
Big Brother airs on CBS on Sundays and Wednesdays at 8 p.m. ET and Thursdays at 9 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Baby shower from hell! On the Monday, September 11, episode of Teen Mom 2, Briana DeJesus invited her ex-boyfriend to her baby shower — and her ex baby daddy Luis completely flipped out. Jenelle Evans also prepared to go back to court to fight her mom, Barbara Evans, for custody of her son Jace. Oh, and Kailyn Lowry might be headed back to court, too. Take a load off and catch up on the 5 biggest moments you may have missed!
Baby Shower Drama
Briana had to pretend she was still with Luis during her shower, but it didn’t last long. He rolled up to the party with two friends and a giant film camera, which Briana’s whole family agreed was “disrespectful.” The situation escalated when Briana’s ex-boyfriend Dre showed up to the party. Luis was beyond angry, but Briana couldn’t care less.
“Get the f--k out of here,” she screamed. “This is a sh-t show. I’m trying to pull my sh-t together.”
The day after the party, Briana told her extended family the truth that Luis cheated and that she thought about adoption. She could not help but bawl her eyes out. “You have us,” her aunt said. “We’ve dealt with bigger things.” At least she has her family by her side.
Jenelle’s Court Date Finally Arrives
Jenelle had barely seen her son Jace in weeks, and was ready to go to court and fight for her son. “I think, at this point, Jace feels really stuck in the middle,” Jenelle said.
Barbara was even more worried. "If she got him back or not … there’s no more relationship between us,” Barbara said. “I think it will ruin [his] life.” The show cut right as the two were walking into the courtroom, so fans will have to wait until next week to finally find out what happened.
Kailyn Might Be Headed to Court Again
Tensions were high between Kailyn and Javi Marroquin after he filed for child support, and she was already stressed enough with school and her pregnancy.
“Javi’s got the mental mind games,” Kailyn said. “I want to focus on graduating and having a baby.”
If things weren’t crazy enough, her other ex Jo Rivera revealed he might take Kailyn back to court to adjust their custody agreement. He’s worried about his son being dragged around to different houses due to Kailyn’s busy schedule, and wanted to make sure Isaac has some stability in his life.
“It’s been hard on him,” Jo said. “It really bothers me.”
Chelsea Has Mother-Daughter Time
Chelsea Houska had some one-on-one time with her daughter Aubree to make her feel special. Chelsea asked her daughter about what it’s like when she visits her dad Adam Lind, who recently tested positive for methamphetamines. Aubree admitted her dad sleeps a lot when she is there, and then asked Chelsea why her grandma always has to be there when she visits.
“Maybe, someday, that will change,” Chelsea said.
Leah Gets Her Daughter Some Assistance
Leah Messer finally got some relief after visiting the doctor with her daughter Ali last week. “I’m fighting for Ali. I’m going to do everything that she needs done,” Leah said. “It’s really taking an emotional toll.”
Tell Us: What did you think about the episode?
Teen Mom 2 airs on MTV Mondays at 9 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


It was the end of the road and time for the couples to formally couple up – or head home alone. On the Monday, September 11, Bachelor in Paradise finale episode, Chris Harrison popped in to remind everyone that they had the option to enjoy a fantasy suite date with their significant other. Daniel waited about point-five seconds before making sure Lacey was good to go. Spoiler alert: She was. “I’m in love with Daniel, for sure,” Lacey gushed to the camera. In the meantime, Jonathan and Jasmine amicably agreed they would just be friends.
Jack Stone Goes Home
Determined to make romance happen, the non-serial-killer Jack Stone pulled Christen aside to see where they stood. He told her he was excited to “get out of here hand-in-hand.” Christen seemed confused about the prospect of leaving as a couple. “I can’t leave her as a couple,” she laughed. “We are friends and at this point in time I feel like we are acquaintances.”
“Thank you. It’s a no,” she added to the camera. “Scallop Fingers out.”
Adam and Raven Hit the Fantasy Suite
Raven, meanwhile, had cold feet about hitting the fantasy suite with Adam since things hadn’t worked out well after she did that with former Bachelor Nick Viall. That didn’t mean she wasn’t going to go, though. “I am curious to see what happens tonight,” Raven said to the camera.
Dean Tells Danielle He Loves… Kristina
After telling Danielle that she was amazing, beautiful, and interesting, Dean told her that he realized that he cares a lot about Kristina – or, more specifically, that he loves her. Wait… what? “I don’t know. I think that you and I need to leave separately,” he said. “If you’re still in a place where you don’t know exactly what you want, you’ve got to figure it out on your own,” Danielle replied. He apologized “for being an idiot.”
Dean then cried to the camera about how it “killed” him that Kristina wasn’t there anymore. “Everything she’s ever done has been the more pure interaction,” he said. “I actually am in love with this girl, and I lost that to pursue something else.” Tears streamed down his perfect face as he confessed that he “literally” hated himself right now. He then apologized to Kristina and said she deserved better than him.
Diggy and Jaimi Don't Work Out
Love doesn’t work out for Diggy either. Diggy quickly  told Dominique that he thought it was best if they left separately  because he really liked Jaimi. (Well, he left that part out, but that  was clearly why.) Dominique wasn’t happy about it, but she wasn’t  heartbroken either.
Just then Jaimi wandered over and Diggy told  her he wanted to leave as a couple because he thought they could “build  something great” together. “I had a great time,” she said. “But today, I  think we need to just leave as friends.” Well, that was that.
Amanda Breaks Down in Tears
Robby  couldn’t wait to couple-up with Amanda after Paradise, but she didn’t  feel the same way. “I just like, honestly, don't see this working in  real life,” she said. “I just feel bad.” Robby’s face fell as she added,  “It’s not you. I think you’re such a great guy.”
Robby began to  tear up as he explained, “I wanted to leave with you, hand-in-hand.”  Amanda repeated how sorry she was – but her mind was made up.  “It makes  no sense,” a very confused Robby said to the camera before heading out alone.
Lacey and Daniel Make It Official (Kinda)
“As the days go by,  I’m starting to fall for you,” Daniel said. “So do you want to leave  here in a titled, committed relationship?” Lacey asked. He replied: “I don't want  you going back to New York this week and dating anyone, so that  definitely means that we should be in a relationship.” Then they decided  to stay in a fantasy suite together. “If he proposed I would say yes!”  she declared to the camera. “Nothing can go wrong. We are on cloud  nine.”
Flash forward to Lacey at  the reunion, where she told Chris and the rest of the world that Daniel  had apparently been lying about his feelings and told her the truth  during their night in the fantasy suite. Daniel insisted that he’d  backed off only because he was trying to be “realistic.” Chris then  rolled footage from the morning after their night together.
Taylor and Derek Have Sex
Derek  and Taylor decided they were close to falling in love and the best way  to seal the deal would be by having sex in the fantasy suite. Taylor was  looking forward to being able “to experience each other, but in a  different way.” Derek said he understood how  important sex was to Taylor and that if things went well in the fantasy  suite, they could be in love by the morning. He didn’t comment on what  would happen if things didn’t go well.
Corinne and DeMario Return – Again
Back in the studio, the  entire cast reunited, including Corinne and DeMario. They both agreed  that they were doing much better then just a few weeks ago. They also  had both been going to therapy. “I’m just trying to get back to my old  self, getting back into my fashion line designing,” Corinne said.  DeMario told Corinne he wished her “happiness” and hoped that one day  they would not “have that nasty cloud” over them. “I think that the  cloud has cleared. It is now sunny.” Then they hugged.
Dean Has Some Explaining to Do
It  didn’t take long for Kristina, Danielle and Dean to face off. “You two  should not be arguing with each other. It all falls on me,” Dean said.  He added that it was hard seeing her and that “those emotions are still  there.” Kristina said she hoped he never treated another woman the way  he treated her again. Danielle then revealed that he called her an hour  after they left Paradise. Oops.
On a happier note, Raven and Adam  revealed that they were still going strong. As a special treat, Raven  surprised Adam with her parents. Yes, he met her parents on live TV.
Derek and Taylor Get Engaged!
After  confirming they were still in total bliss, Derek had something to ask  Taylor. “You have such a big heart and you are absolutely stunningly  beautiful,” he said as he pulled her to her feet. “Taylor, I love you,”  he said. “I choose to love you in this  minute, this hour, this day, and every day from here on out. Will you marry me?” She said yes. Us Weekly exclusively confirmed their engagement late last month.
Tell Us: Were you surprised Derek and Taylor got engaged?
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Just one face launched a thousand nightmares. But when unflappable It star Sophia Lillis first encountered Bill Skarsgård’s sinister Pennywise — a shape-shifting demon often masked as a clown — she, well, let out a laugh
“He didn’t notice because he had contacts in and couldn’t see me," the 15-year-old tells Us Weekly. "It was really funny!”
In fact, filming the remake about a band of teenage outcasts terrorized by Stephen King's creature was far from a horror show. “Behind the scenes, you get to see the process,” says Lillis, a Losers Club member in the flick. “It’s more interesting than scary.”
Her costar Finn Wolfhard would beg to differ. Recalls the 14-year-old Stranger Things actor: “I was like, ‘What did we get ourselves into?’”
The pair give Us a real scream.
Us Weekly: OK be honest, are you fans of horror movies?
Finn Wolfhard: Yes! Sophia laughs when we watch them. I just get super quiet, but I do love them.
Sophia Lillis: There are funny parts. You can always try to find the comedy in horror movies.
FW: It’s true, you can. Also, this movie is actually funny.
SL: There’s humor in it.
Us: How familiar were you with the original 1990 cult classic?
SL: I didn’t know much about the horror genre until after It and then I realized how big the fan base is! I read The Shining and watched the movie. I also read parts of It for the audition just so I could get to know my character and her relationship to the viewers.
Us: Was it hard not to bring this nightmare idea home with you every night?
FW: We knew that it was all fake in the moment. When we slept, we didn’t remember out dreams half the time because we were so tired!
SL: I never was actually scared when making It. 
Us: Did Bill ever try and scare you guys on set?
FW: He didn’t stay in character, thank God. That would be awful! In between takes, he was super supportive and wanted to make sure we were all OK.
Us: Favorite memory from filming?
SL: It was really fun to act with Bill Skarsgård. The way he plays Pennywise is so unique and very different from Tim Curry [who played the demon in the original]. He has to choke me multiple times in the movie. He’d have to put his arms around my neck but the cameras wouldn’t be on because they were looking to find the right shot. So his hands were around my neck and he’d be like, “How’s your day? How’s school? What’s it like being in high school now?” It was a little uneasy!
FW: The most fun for me was when we were filming in the water. We just got to swim and have fun and chicken fight.
SL: We got to know each other very well doing that scene! In a lot of the roles I play, I only do scenes with just myself or one other person. I never had to act with a group of kids. I’m glad to have this experience, especially because now I know how to act with other kids
Us: What was the dynamic like on set between the Losers Club?
FW: Honestly, we were all really close. We were lucky to have Sophia. She sat there and watched us go insane. She was super cool and never freaked out.
It is playing in theaters now. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Lady Gaga's upcoming Netflix documentary, Gaga: Five Foot Two, opens with a stunning shot of her suspended in the air for the entrance of her Super Bowl LI halftime show. From there, the film, which premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival on Friday, September 8, trails the pop star in the emotional year leading up to the release of her most recent album, Joanne.
From the first scene of the documentary, it's clear that Gaga's engagement to actor Taylor Kinney is unraveling. "Me and Taylor are fighting, so that sucks," she admits while cooking in her kitchen. Later on, after their July 2016 split, she breaks down in tears. "My love life has just imploded," she says. Still, the former couple appear to be cordial. On the day of her Super Bowl gig, she is shown receiving a bouquet of flowers from her ex-fiancé.
Five Foot Two also shows the 31-year-old singer's battle with chronic pain. She explains that she still suffers muscle spasms from the hip injury that forced her to cancel her 2013 tour, the Born This Way Ball. Sometimes the pain is so brutal that Gaga cries, though she makes sure to express her appreciation for her doctors and the team around her.
One of the most memorable scenes in the film comes when Gaga addresses her feud with fellow pop star Madonna. "She wouldn't look me in the eye and tell me that I was reductive," the "Poker Face" singer says, adding that she learned of the Queen of Pop's 2012 diss against her while watching TV. "Telling me you think I'm a piece of s--t through the media? It's like a guy passing me a note through his friend."
Gaga (real name Stefani Germanotta) then explains that Madonna, 59, was her idol "as an Italian who grew up in New York." She says the "Vogue" songstress has since apologized to her, but admits she's not sure if she can ever trust her again.
The documentary, which was directed by Chris Moukarbel, also gives an unfiltered look into the "Bad Romance" singer's life off the stage, including her goddaughter's baptism and a trip to Walmart to purchase her own CDs. The film ends with a dedication to Sonja Durham, Gaga's best friend who lost her battle with stage IV cancer in May.
Gaga: Five Foot Two premieres on Netflix on Friday, September 22.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Zoe and Lemon are back together — and not at war! Hart of Dixie costars Rachel Bilson and Jaime King reunited at the Self-Portrait Fashion Show in NYC on Saturday, September 9.
The O.C. alum, 36, shared a selfie of the pair on Instagram. "@mrselfportrait #nyfw #lemonlove," Bilson wrote.
In her own snap, King, 38, added: "Portraits with the women I [love] most at @mrselfportrait [love] Rach and I think Hart of Dixie needs to return. Who wants to make that happen?! #zoeandlemonforever."
Bilson and King played Dr. Zoe Hart and Lemon Breeland on the CW series, which ran for four seasons from 2011 to 2015. The beloved show also starred Friday Night Lights alum Scott Porter, Cress Williams and Wilson Bethel.
Bilson has also kept close with Hart of Dixie's set costumer Gelareh Khalioun. In March, she attended Khalioun's wedding at the Hummingbird Nest in Susana, California. "My beautiful baby bunns is married. I love you @gegelspot to the moon and back ❤❤❤ #gorgeousbride #youfancy," Bilson wrote on Instagram at the time.
The Nashville star, meanwhile, has yet to tie the knot herself. Bilson shares a daughter, Briar Rose, 2, with Hayden Christensen.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


The first teaser trailer for Fifty Shades Freed was released on Sunday, September 10, and it reveals the wedding of Christian Grey and Anastasia Steele, but it’s not all champagne and canapes.
The final installment of the erotic trilogy based on E.L. James’ best-selling books sees Christian (Jamie Dornan) and Anastasia (Dakota Johnson) tie the knot but things quickly take a dangerous turn.
The one-minute-long teaser, which was released on Anastasia’s birthday, features the tagline “Mrs. Grey will see you now,” and opens with the couple exchanging vows.
“I solemnly vow to love you faithfully, forsaking all others,” Christian can be heard saying as Anastasia is buttoned into her wedding gown. “I promise to trust and respect you and to keep you safe for as long as we both shall live. All that I have is now yours.”
The scene then cuts to the newlyweds pulling up to a private jet.
“You own this?” Anastasia asks her new husband.
“We own this,” he smoothly replies with a smile.
We are then treated to a shot of Christian shirtless on the beach before a quick cut to Anastasia discovering a pistol in a desk drawer, followed by her expensive Audi being almost run off the road before she's grabbed from behind by a man wielding a large knife.
Fans of the erotic novels know the storyline, but those who haven’t read the books will have to wait to see what happens when the film is released on Valentine’s Day 2018.
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly’s YouTube Page!


The second time was not the charm. Emily and Haley Ferguson sat down with Us Weekly exclusively to reflect on their short-lived experience returning to Bachelor in Paradise for season 3 and admitted that they wish they could have done things differently.
The famous twins, 24, who vied for Ben Higgins’ affections on season 20 of The Bachelor, were excited to go back to Mexico for another shot at love — little did they know they’d be the last newcomers to arrive in Paradise. 
“We thought we were going to be [arriving] in the middle. So that’s why I was excited about going,” Emily told Us at the End of Summer Bachelor Party benefiting the Restore Dignity charity in Santa Monica on Wednesday, September 6. “The end is kind of just a disaster, because everybody’s coupled up. I definitely don’t think we would have gone if we knew we were the last. It’s too hard to consider getting into a relationship. I mean, I think everybody had their eyes set on Dean [Unglert] but I think we dodged a bullet there.”
The Las Vegas native explained that she and Haley regret the way they behaved on the beach. “Unfortunately, we looked terrible this season. I do wish that we could … I think we went into it and we were expecting it to be very similar to last season. We should have gone into it with a different perspective and a different outlook,” she continued. “I think we were hopeful of at least being able to go on one date, so I think we were really bitter that we didn’t even get to go on on a date.”
Chiming in, Haley added that the sisters wish they could rescind the negative remarks they made about their costars. Shortly after arriving in Mexico, the Bachelor in Paradise alums dubbed Danielle Lombard and Taylor Nolan “ugly, shallow wh—es” and coined franchise favorite Jack Stone as a “serial killer.”
“We said some really, really awful things that we wish we could take back,” Haley admitted. “So that’s the only thing that we would do differently.”
In agreement, Emily noted, “I also think that we thought we were being funny. But then looking back on it, it really wasn’t funny at all.” Haley clarified her sister’s remarks, telling Us, “If you know our personalities at all, you know that everything we were saying was meant to be lighthearted. We often times will often just make jokes, like, ‘Oh, you wh—e.’ Like, I don’t think people … It got perceived the total wrong way.”
“It looked bad,” Emily confirmed. “It looked bad and we apologized to all the girls that we hurt and we called names because that’s not fair. You should never tear down someone’s physical appearance.”
During their chat with Us, the twins also mentioned that they’ve reached out to their former BIP costar and close friend Nick Viall in the wake of his breakup from Vanessa Grimaldi.
“We’ve talked to Nick,” Haley noted. “We actually talk to him almost every day.” Emily added that the aspiring pilates instructors are in touch with Grimaldi as well. “I know they’re both going through a really hard time right now.”
“Especially because they’re both in the spotlight,” Haley further explained. “So it’s normal to break up. It’s such a normal thing but I think everybody’s making such a big deal out of it. And it’s so funny because I think a lot of people think they know [Nick and Vanessa’s] relationship, but nobody understands. They’re both great people and I really hope that people see that.”
Added Emily: “And they both deserve love.”
Us Weekly exclusively reported in August that the season 21 Bachelor “still loves” his ex-fiancee and the former flames are still very close.
As for the twins’ return to a Bachelor Nation show? “Hell no!” Haley said. “I don’t want to say never say never, but I mean after the way we kind of got portrayed this season, I don’t know. [We want to] become something other than just the Bachelor twins.”
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Summer isn't technically over until September 21 — and certain ingredients are just reaching their peak. “The last heirloom tomatoes picked are always the best,” says chef Michael Hamilton of NYC’s the Flower Shop (Lenny Kravitz has dined there).
Since they started to grow midsummer, the multihued fruits have been “drenched” by the sun, he says, which boosts their flavor. Hamilton uses them in a riff on traditional panzanella, a Tuscan bread and tomato salad, and incorporates strawberries to highlight other seasonal produce.
Take this recipe to the next level with Hamilton’s quick tip: “Before ripping the basil, take the whole leaf and slap it between your hands as if you were clapping — it releases more of the herb’s oil and aroma.”
Tomato-Strawberry Panzanella
Serves 4
2–3 plump heirloom tomatoes
Sea salt and fresh-cracked pepper
10	strawberries
4	tbsp good olive oil
2	slices day-old country bread
1 	clove garlic
2	sprigs of basil
Handful of watercress
1/2	cup balsamic vinegar
Juice of half a lemon
Splash of red wine vinegar
Be a trendsetter! Download the Us Weekly app to get celeb fashion, beauty tips and more delivered directly to your iPhone.


The past is staying in the past. Dorit Kemsley revealed that her husband, PK, will be less involved in the forthcoming season of The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills following a dramatic incident that unfolded last season with costar Erika Girardi.
“I know he had a rough season. I think he took it well, he’s a big boy,” Kemsley, 41, told Us Weekly exclusively at Bella Magazine’s NYFW kickoff party on Wednesday, August 6, at The Attic Rooftop. “This season, I think that PK took a step back. He took a back seat and kept it simple.”
As previously reported, last season PK alleged that he caught a glimpse of Girardi, 46, while she wasn’t wearing underwear. On the season 7 reunion episode in April, the singer accused PK of saying he “quite like[d] the view,” although he denied having said so. “It’s very frustrating when you’re accused of something you didn’t do,” he fired back at the time.
Despite the war of words, Kemsley is standing by her husband. “The thing is, he and I always support each other,” she continued telling Us. “We’re partners in this life together. We roam through life together and we will be there for each other."
Although Kemsley played coy when asked if PK and Erika have made peace, she did tease what else fans can look forward to seeing on the upcoming season. “It had been five years since I put out a swim line and now the ideas are pouring out of me,” the fashion designer shared. “But you’ll see me trying to balance that with being a mom. It wasn’t easy for me to do as a career woman because I wasn’t a mother when I was doing my career before and I think I can do it.”
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Kiss and tell! Tiffani Thiessen is spilling a Saved By The Bell secret to Us Weekly that’s been on our minds for quite some time. Who is the better kisser, Zack or Slater? Watch the video above!
Thiessen’s character Kelly Kapowski often found herself torn between Zack (Mark-Paul Gosselaar) and Slater (Mario Lopez) throughout the hit ’90s series and planted plenty of kisses on them both.
“That’s a hard one,” the Beverly Hills, 90210 alum, 43, tells Us Weekly. “I kissed probably Zack more so if you went with that answer, I guess.”
The actress, who said that her former costars are still close, also revealed that she may have taken a thing or two from the Saved by the Bell set.
“I took these old Levi’s, which are so ‘90s right now and everybody’s wearing those,” Thiessen revealed. “And everybody signed them.”
These days you will find Thiessen in the kitchen. The Dinner at Tiffani’s star teamed up with Uncle Ben’s for the Ben’s Beginners Cooking Contest, which challenges families to create lifelong memories in the kitchen. She’s gearing up to release her new cookbook, Pull Up a Chair.
“Its my connection of how I love bringing people in,” the White Collar Alum explained. “Whether it’s family or friends and really connecting over food.”
To find out Thiessen’s favorite recipes to cook with her two kids, watch the video above.


We’re not crying, you’re crying. Blake Shelton’s new track, “I’ll Name the Dogs,” is inspired by his romance with Gwen Stefani — and the music video features her children!
In the emotional video released on Friday, September 8, the country star, 41, portrays a wedding singer at the nuptials for an older couple who weds in the company of their children, grandchildren, family and friends.
At the reception following the ceremony, the 47-year-old “Rich Girl” singer’s oldest sons, Kingston, 10 and Zuma, 8, who she shares with ex-husband Gavin Rossdale, have an adorable cameo as they take to the dance floor dressed to the nines in suits. “The Sweet Escape” vocalist and Rossdale, 51, are also mom to Apollo, 2.
While The Voice coach and the “Hollaback Girl” songstress have no plans to walk down the aisle yet, the heartfelt song seems to serve as a nod to their love.
“Girl, it’s high time, I tell ya / No more messing around. Time to lay these cards on the table /A nd just throw it on out,” Shelton croons in the record. “I’m talking’ you and me with the same street name / Same last name. same everything. It’s a real thing, a how I feel thing / So I’mma go on and take a swing.”
The “Honey Bee” songster and the fashion designer met on the set of The Voice and Us Weekly exclusively revealed their relationship in November 2015. Although the couple has yet to announce their plans to tie the knot, multiple sources close to the “A Guy With a Girl” artist told Us in September 2016 that the duo “want to get married” very soon. “They are both very, very happy,” the insider confirmed. “Blake is having the time of his life with Gwen and feels so comfortable around her.”
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Sam Smith is back, and his new music is more heartbreaking than ever. The British singer released his latest ballad, "Too Good at Goodbyes," on Friday, September 8.
"I'm never gonna let you close to me / Even though you mean the most to me," Smith, 25, croons on the track. "'Cause every time I open up, it hurts / So I'm never gonna get too close to you / Even when I mean the most to you / In case you go and leave me in the dirt."
The four-time Grammy winner explained the meaning behind the emotional single during an interview with Beats 1 host Zane Lowe. "This song is about me and about a relationship that I was in," he admitted. "I'm still very, very single. I think I'm even more single than I was when I released [my first album] In the Lonely Hour, so I'm insanely single. People are gonna see, this one as I've said, is about me and something that I've gone through."
The song is the first single from Smith's upcoming second album, which he confirmed is out later this year. The as-yet-untitled LP isn't entirely autobiographical, though. "This album actually is not all about me," he explained. "There's about four songs that are about me, and the rest are about different things and different people in my life and what they've gone through. ... I wanted to welcome people back in and I want it to be about my voice and about the storytelling of something that I've gone through."
"Too Good at Goodbyes" is the Oscar winner's first single since "Writing's on the Wall," the theme song for the 2015 James Bond film Spectre. In honor of his return to the scene, Smith will perform a series of intimate concerts in London, New York, Los Angeles and Berlin in the coming days.
Tell Us: What do you think of Smith's new single?
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Stock up on tissues now! This Is Us creator Dan Fogelman teased what's to come for the Pearson family — and its patriarch, Jack — while attending the Emmys' Outstanding Casting Cocktail Reception in Beverly Hills on Thursday, September 7.
"A lot of Jack stuff is coming," he exclusively told Us Weekly. "I keep saying, towards the end of the first episode, there’s a big piece of the puzzle that gets put out there. And in the course of the second season, I think all the questions that everybody’s asking right now are going to be answered."
Jack's (Milo Ventimiglia) backstory and the way he died won't be the only storyline. "[Kevin] has a very interesting storyline this year that I think is going to be surprising," Fogelman added of Justin Hartley's character.
As for matriarch Rebecca? Last season, several episodes centered on Rebecca (Mandy Moore) and Randall's (Sterling K. Brown) relationship. This time, however, there will be more of a focus on the mother-daughter duo Rebecca and Kate (Chrissy Metz).
"I think we’ve explored a lot of Randall and Rebecca already in the show, so we’re actually moving along — and while we’ll still continue to explore that relationship and what happened there, we’re actually doing a lot with Rebecca and Kate this year," Fogelman revealed. "Both in the past and in the present. But it’s not that one story stays and the other goes away; I was just editing an episode that’s very Rebecca and Randall heavy today. But yeah, we’re trying to focus on all the relationships between all the kids and both parents."
He added: "[Kate's] grown up in the shadow of her statuesque mother who sang, and she’s trying to sing. So there’s a lot of complicated stuff that we’ll be diving into."
Season 2 of This Is Us premieres on Tuesday, September 26, on NBC at 9 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


She’s in it to win it! Miley Cyrus dished on her goals for season 13 of The Voice in an NBC clip shared exclusively with Us Weekly.
“I am so happy to be back on The Voice, especially because I feel like I learned a lot last season, the “Malibu” crooner, 24, gushed in the sneak peek released on Friday, September 8. “With experience, I can navigate the show a little bit better.”
The former Disney star, who joined the singing competition show in 2016 for season 10, is committed to her craft. “I have a note written down because I believe in putting things into the universe,” she explained. “And my note to myself is, ‘I’m going to win.’ And that’s my goal this time.”
Cyrus also revealed her main objective— going head to head with veteran judge Blake Shelton. “This season, I really want to snag a good country artist from Blake. I think if anyone can do it on the panel, it would be me,” the Happy Hippie Foundation founder boasted. “I try to remind people that I was actually born and raised in Nashville, Tennessee.”
“The most important thing to me in my life is my family and being on the farm, being home and music. Family, farm and music. That is my life, my life revolves around it,” the “Wrecking Ball” songstress continued, adding, “And glittery jeans.”
The “Younger Now” singer then reflected on her experience on The Voice so far and how her coaching mechanisms will change this season. “I don’t think I realized when I started season 11 how much you create a relationship with the artists that are on your team,” she said. “I think I bring a lot of value as a coach because I’m willing to take the time, overtime, to work with my artists. I feel like, being back, I have some different ways that I could win the show.”
Season 13 of the reality talent show, which also stars coaches Adam Levine and Jennifer Hudson, premieres on Monday, September 25, on NBC.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


The club is back! A reboot of the Mickey Mouse Club, which premiered in 1955 on ABC and launched the careers of stars such as Ryan Gosling, Britney Spears, Justin Timberlake and Christina Aguilera, is premiering on Friday, September 8.
But the new version has some twists — it will be a strictly digital and social media show called Club Mickey Mouse, and there will be a brand new theme song. “Over the course of seven weeks, they will share their journey on the @ClubMickeyMouse Instagram and Facebook accounts through Instagram stories, Boomerangs and Facebook Live videos, as they document the behind-the-scenes process of writing their own songs, choreographing their dances, and their experiences on set,” a press release explains. “Each week will culminate in a unique musical performance and a marquee music video. Walt Disney Records will also distribute the original music weekly through online music stores, including a new Club Mickey Mouse theme song which will be released on September 12, 2017.”
Todrick Hall, who most recently choreographed Taylor Swift’s record-breaking video “Look What You Made Me Do,” will join the Club as a mentor, along with Alisha Marie, a social media influencer with more than 3 million followers. The cast of new Mouseketeers includes teens Regan Aliyah, Jenna Alvarez, Ky Baldwin, Gabe De Guzman, Leanne Tessa Langston, Brianna Mazzola, Sean Oliu and Will Simmons.
“From the original cast of Mousketeers to the pop power of the 1990’s Mickey Mouse Club, this franchise has always discovered, nurtured, and incubated original talent who have gone on to do great things and make a real impact on culture,” said Andrew Sugerman, Executive Vice President of Publishing and Digital Media at Disney. “We’re excited to continue that legacy and to welcome the Mousketeers into our network of Maker creators, support their crafts as authentic songwriters, choreographers, and artists, and bring a new generation of teens back into the Club.”
To follow Club Mickey Mouse, visit Facebook.com/ClubMickeyMouse and @ClubMickeyMouse on Instagram.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


It's all happening! A celebrity edition of Big Brother is officially coming to CBS this winter. Host Julie Chen announced the news during the live double eviction episode on Thursday, September 7.
"Big Brother has been dominating pop culture throughout its 19 seasons, and it is exciting to grow the franchise with the first-ever celebrity edition in the U.S.," executive producers Allison Grodner and Rich Meehan said in a statement. “Celebrities will be under the watchful eye of the Big Brother cameras, facing the classic game elements, and of course new twists in this special winter event.”
Don't worry, though! Big Brother will also resume for another season in summer 2018.
Chen, 47, whose husband is CBS CEO Leslie Moonves, opened up about the addition in an interview with The Hollywood Reporter.
“He said, 'You and your show are single-handedly keeping this network afloat during the summer. You’re keeping this network running,'" the Talk cohost recalled. "If you know one thing about my husband, it has to make economic sense. They crunched the numbers and said, 'Based on the following we have, we can do it and make it work and make it profitable.'"
The network most likely won't have a tough time finding a cast. Saturday Night Live alum Bobby Moynihan revealed what a huge fan he is when he visited the houseguests while promoting his new show, Me, Myself & I, earlier this week.
As always, expect the unexpected!
Big Brother airs on CBS on Sundays and Wednesdays at 8 p.m. ET and Thursdays at 9 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Jessie James Decker is confident in her relationship — and doesn’t think her show, Eric & Jessie, will have a negative impact on her marriage to NFL star Eric Decker.
“I don’t worry about that just because I think it’s like 60 percent of Americans are getting divorced,” she exclusively tells Us Weekly. “You just happen to catch some of them on TV. So I don’t think it has anything to do with that. [Laughs] I just think there are some couples who just don’t work out.”
Many couples have divorced after starring on the small screen together, including Jessica Simpson and Nick Lachey, Kate and John Gosselin and Britney Spears and Kevin Federline.
Jessie, 29, and Eric, 30, however, are still going strong. They are back for season 3 of their E! series, which premiered on Wednesday, September 6. The new episodes will focus more on their careers and include adorable moments between their two children — Vivianne, 3, and Eric II, 2, who is lovingly nicknamed “Bubby.”
“They are best friends. They really are. They are so cute together,” Jessie tells Us. “I always knew I was nurturing and I have such a good mom myself so I learned from the best. I think what surprised me — and maybe not surprised me but I had to learn quickly — there is no room to be selfish when you become a mother. It is not about you anymore.”
Luckily, she has a solid partner to coparent with. “Eric is the best. I know women say that about their husbands all the time, but I cannot stress it enough. He’s honestly the best. He just blows me away every day. He just doesn’t do anything wrong. I remember back in the day when we started [dating] I would snoop and try to find anything and he’s just awesome. He’s an amazing person,” Jessie gushes. “He’s a very selfless father. And if I was a bum mom and didn’t do anything he would take over with no problem. I think the kids would still be fine.”
She adds: “We are still madly in love with each other and I’m crazy about him. I can’t imagine not being that way.”
According to Jessie, she and Eric have “never had problems” — before or after their June 2013 nuptials.
“I know some people probably get frustrated when I say that and they don’t think that’s authentic or they don’t think that’s real, but we truly didn’t. What is there to argue about when you are 23 and 24 and you’ve been together for two years? That’s the honeymoon stage! If you’re already having problems and bickering and fighting you probably are not in the right relationship in my opinion,” she explains to Us. “We truly were a perfect match. The little things didn’t matter and now that we are parents and we have these jobs —that’s when those things test you. And so if you already had a rocky relationship before those things happened that’s going to be a tough one … We are unfazed and ready because we already have a great foundation.”
Eric & Jessie airs Tuesdays on E! at 10 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


She’s in! Shailene Woodley opened up about her potential interest in appearing in a second season of HBO’s Big Little Lies in the October Issue of Marie Claire U.K. magazine. 
“I haven’t heard anything, but of course I’d do it,” she told the publication." It would be so fun.”
The miniseries, which also stars Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman, Zoe Kravitz and Laura Dern, left off with the school moms covering up the murder of abusive husband Perry Wright (Alexander Skarsgård).
And while the wildly popular series hasn’t officially been renewed, the 25-year-old actress is interested to see where her character Jane Chapman ends up after surviving sexual abuse from Skarsgard’s character.
“I think it would be interesting to explore the psychological trauma she’s undergoing post seeing him,” Woodley explained to the mag. “I think there’s an assumption that these things are quick to heal once you begin therapy or once you have that closure. But these are lifelong pains that you’re constantly working through.”
The Divergent actress isn’t the only cast member to speak of a possible second season.
In a Thursday, September 7 appearance on Good Morning America, Witherspoon, 41, who also executive-produced the show, discussed the possibility, saying:"We’re talking about it. We had so much fun and literally this group of women are my closest friends and we’re thinking about it. We’re talking about it.There’s only one book and it ended where the show ended. We gotta get the writer to write another book."
Liane Moriarty, who wrote the book the series was based off of is also toying with the idea of a second season.
"I have started to think about ways this could continue. The producers have asked me to see if I can come up with some ideas. I wouldn't write a new book but perhaps a new story and then we'll see what happens," she explained to The Sunday Morning Herald in April. "I'm absolutely open to it because, once I started thinking, it was too much fun to see what I could do and to see these characters again. And there's definitely places you can go."
HBO programming president Casey Bloys shared the network's thoughts on renewing the series for a second season in July.
"Liane taking her crack at it and I think that it's interesting," he said. "I don't think [there's been] a time when we've gone to the writer of the novel, the source material, to come up with like, ‘Do you see ongoing stories?' I'll be very curious to see what she comes up with that. Normally you go to a TV writer, and say, ‘What do you see?'"
The Big Little Lies finale aired on April 2 and received a whopping 16 Emmy nominations. Witherspoon and Kidman are both nominated in the Outstanding Lead Actress in a Limited Series or Movie category. Woodley, Dern and Skarsgård were also nominated, with the show earning a nom for Outstanding Limited Series too.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Get ready for some Friday night drama! Us Weekly is coming to the small screen with a new series on REELZ, focusing on the biggest celebrity clashes.
Us Weekly’s Famous Feuds will kick off the season with the scoop on a spat between Mariah Carey an Eminem, which kicked off in 2009 after the rapper name-dropped the Grammy winner, with whom he had a brief relationship, and her then husband, Nick Cannon, in his tune “Bagpipes from Baghdad.”
Us Weekly’s Famous Feuds will feature interviews from Damion “Damizza” Young, the producer who connected the pair. He gives an insider’s take on what happened between the pop queen and the rap sensation. The episode also takes a closer look at the tiff between Katy Perry and Taylor Swift.
But there’s more to come, so stock up on the popcorn: This 10 episode season of Us Weekly’s Famous Feuds will also take a closer look at superstar showdowns including Madonna vs. Elton John, Brad Pitt vs. Angelina Jolie and Jay-Z vs. R. Kelly. Get behind-the-scenes tidbits from industry insiders and entertainment journalists.
Watch an exclusive sneak peek of Friday’s episode above.
Us Weekly’s Famous Feuds premieres on REELZ Friday, September 8, at 9 p.m. ET. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Drama! Music video director Joseph Kahn thinks Beyoncé copied Taylor Swift’s video for “Bad Blood,” and not the other way around. The director is defending himself after Beyoncé’s fans claimed that he and the "Out of the Woods" singer copied some aspects of the “Formation” video for their “Look What You Made Me Do” clip.
Lemonade and Minute Maid pic.twitter.com/onBLP9pHvR
During his Thursday, September 7, interview with the Los Angeles Times about his new film, Bodied, Kahn, 44, opened up about his Twitter feud with the Beyhive and continued to defend his work.
“It’s not ‘Formation’ at all,” he told the newspaper about Swift's latest video. “They try to say she’s wearing a black crop top and Beyoncé wore a black crop top. But they don’t realize in 2015 in ‘Bad Blood,’ Taylor Swift was wearing a black crop top. I really do think, by the way, that Beyoncé copied ‘Bad Blood.’”
After the “LWYMMD” video dropped at the 2017 MTV Video Music Awards on August 25, Kahn spoke out on Twitter the next day to address the accusations that he had copied the “Sorry” singer. “I’ve worked with Beyoncé a few times,” he wrote. “She’s an amazing person. The #LWYMMDvideo is not in her art space. Love and respect to Bey.” 
The scene that had people making the comparison was one that shows Swift lined up next to her male backup dancers while wearing all black, similar to what Beyoncé did for her Lemonade album’s visuals. 
The video director has also been addressing his feud with the Beyhive on social media while he promotes his new movie. He shared the LA Times article on Twitter, writing: “Come get it Beyhive 🐝🐝🐝🐝. The candy is right here.”
Beyhive is the official street marketing team for BODIED. Thanks! 💋🐝 https://t.co/qEmTYKAFQ6
"Beyhive is the official street marketing team for BODIED. Thanks!" he wrote. Not long after, he revealed tickets for his movie's premiere were sold out.
Kahn previously directed Swift’s videos for “Bad Blood,” “Blank Space,” “Wildest Dreams” and “Out of the Woods,” and he worked with Beyoncé on Destiny’s Child’s “Say My Name” and “Jumpin’ Jumpin’.”
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


On the run! Zayn Malik premiered the music video for his new single “Dusk Till Dawn” featuring Sia on Thursday, September 7, off his upcoming sophomore album. The singer teased the arrival of his new visual on Twitter on Friday, September 1, revealing that he'd star alongside Girls actress Jemima Kirke.
The former One Direction member took to social media to share his excitement with his followers. “Hope you enjoy it as much as I did making it,” the star wrote to his fans.
hope you enjoy it as much as I did making it
Kirke shared her reaction to the video’s release on Twitter, sharing a video of herself eating cereal and singing along to the song. She wrote, “How are you celebrating the release of @zaynmalik new video?” The singer replied to her post saying, “My Mornings...similar.”
How are you celebrating the release of @zaynmalik new video? pic.twitter.com/RDdsAcR7YL
The action-packed video follows the couple as they carry two different briefcases and try to escape from the authorities who are chasing after them. Kirke’s character hides her identity with a black wig and glasses, as Malik’s character follows her and is eventually taken in for questioning.
The police officer says, “I know who you are” and Zayn replies, “You don’t know me.” The cops search through the singer’s briefcase and find nothing but clothes, and compare his hand tattoos with the tattoos of the person they’re after. They eventually realize they have the wrong guy and let him go., “I know who you are” and Zayn replies, “You don’t know me.” The cops search through the singer’s briefcase and find nothing but clothes, and compare his hand tattoos with the tattoos of the person they’re after. They eventually realize they have the wrong guy and let him go.
The singer then gets into a high-speed chase in his Jaguar with another group of bad guys as he races to be by his girl’s side. Malik’s character makes a clean getaway through a hole he dug in the ground of a house and reunites with his girl and they drive away together.
Although Sia did not appear in the video, a fan made an edit of the "Pillowtalk" singer wearing the "Chandelier" singer's iconic wig, saying, "Are you gonna perform #DuskTillDawn like that? @zaynmalik"
are you gonna perform #DuskTillDawn like that? 😝 @zaynmalik pic.twitter.com/t2vKM6jKkH
Watch Zayn’s new video for “Dusk Till Dawn” above to see him in action. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Showtime! As he’s gearing up for his stint on Dancing With the Stars, Nick Lachey spoke to Us Weekly to dish on how he’s preparing for the role.
The ‘90s pop-star revealed that he and pro-partner Peta Murgatroyd may perform a dance number to a song from Lachey’s hit band, 98 Degrees! “You gotta pull out every weapon you have. The 98 Degrees weapon might rear its ugly head,” the “What’s Left of Me” songster, 43, told Us at Planet Hollywood in New York City on Wednesday, September 6. “I can’t believe a 98 Degrees song hasn’t been on the show already.”
The former boy band lead singer also explained that his experience in the spotlight has somewhat helped him prep for the gig. “I mean, I think performing experience definitely helps when you’re trying to play a crowd. But at the end of the day, we didn’t really do much dancing to be honest with you. I don’t feel like I really have any leg up there. I’m coming into this eyes wide open,” he said. “I’m going to work my ass off. I got a great teacher and we’re just gonna go for it and see where it takes us. Obviously, we all wanna win. Coming into any competition, I want to win.”
Lacey also opened up about his competitive nature. “At the same time, I think the competition is really within yourself,” he continued. “You don’t ever want to look back and think, ‘I didn’t give it everything I could have given it.’ If i look back no matter what the result being if I get a MirrorBall Trophy or we don’t, if I can look back and say I worked my ass off, I gave it everything I had, what else can you do? The results will be what the results will be.”
The Charmed alum’s wife, Vanessa Lachey, will also be competing on the talent show, partnering up with Murgatroyd’s hubby, Maksim Chmerkovskiy. “I think the best case scenario is we all make it to the final and then the gloves come off and we get serious,” Lachey said of his plans to go head-to-head against Vanessa, 36. “Up until then, what’s wrong with supporting each other? This is a tough road. It’s a long road. It’s a hard road. I’m going to take all the support I can get. It’s nice to come home and know that your wife is going through the same kind of day you have and can relate to the challenges that you’re dealing with.”
In agreement, series veteran Murgatroyd, 31, told Us, “I think it’s almost beneficial in a way because Maks and I are in the kitchen together and creating the moves for Nick and he as my best interest at heart and I do for him. I think we just help each other a lot — all four of us.” 
Dancing With the Stars returns to ABC on Monday, September 18, at 8 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Zach Braff is looking for love on The Bachelor — sort of. The Scrubs star tweeted a photo of newly announced Bachelor Arie Luyendyk Jr. on Thursday, September 7, joking that he was chosen to be the new star of the show since there's a strong resemblance between them.
The Bachelor page shared a photo of Luyendyk to announce the news to fans, writing: “Bachelor Nation, start your engines! We are proud to announce the next Bachelor will be....@ariejr! 🌹🏁🌹”
Bachelor Nation, start your engines! We are proud to announce the next Bachelor will be....@ariejr! 🌹🏁🌹 pic.twitter.com/PTCKToIIrM
Braff then shared the same photo with his followers writing, “I can't believe I'm the Bachelor! I didn't even audition,” the actor joked. “Looking forward to the fantasy suites.”
pic.twitter.com/iMEk2324VE
Braff and Luyendyk may have similar features such as their dark brown hair, blue eyes and fair skin, but the actor won't be the one handing out roses on the show anytime soon. Luyendyk was revealed as the next season 22 Bachelor during Good Morning America on September 7. "It sunk in just now for sure, it's been a little surreal," the 35-year-old said on GMA. "I was a little skeptical just because we had been in talks for a few years about doing it so I just kind of went in with an open heart and just kind of hit me right now I'm here."
The reality star admitted that this was the perfect time for him to be on the show. "I was at home and it was pretty recent and we kept in touch over the last few years but this just fit perfectly. The timing really fit," he said. "I kind of kept things under wraps because I didn't know how this would turn out. It's been such a quick turn of events and my family doesn't know so now they know so they know along with you guys."
Although Luyendyk was the runner-up on Emily Maynard's season 8 of The Bachelorette in 2012, some fans were still surprised that ABC cast him as the reality show’s next star.
Take a look at some of the best fans’ reactions to the announcement below: 
Twitter after hearing Arie Luyendyk Jr. is the new Bachelor #TheBachelor pic.twitter.com/kGPaEoBbmt
My reaction to Arie being announced as the bachelor @BachelorABC pic.twitter.com/4Zq9ozPlcT
Ah yes, Arie Luyendyk is the next Bachelor... pic.twitter.com/mhfUiOF6wJ
So I understand ABC wanting to pick Arie, but unless you've been watching since Emily's season like I have, people have NO IDEA who he is.
Ok but really who is Arie Luyendyk Jr??? #TheBachelor pic.twitter.com/mzLTwSseMj
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


He’s not mincing words. Kid Rock called out Nazis, the KKK and political correctness during a show at Van Andel Arena in Grand Rapids, Michigan, on Wednesday, September 6.
The 46-year-old performer, who previously confirmed his interest in challenging Democratic Senator Debbie Stabenow in the 2018 Michigan midterm elections, performed three songs before delivering his politically charged speech while standing at a podium outfitted with a logo that resembled the presidential seal.
"Think you have to remind me that Black Lives Matter? Nazis, f--king bigots and now the KKK? I say screw all of you a--holes, stay the f--k away,” Rock, whose real name is Robert James Richie, exclaimed.
He added: “It's no secret we're divided and we all should take some blame. We should be ashamed that we all seem scared to call him by his name."
The performer concluded his message with this line: ”If 'Kid Rock for Senate' has got folks in disarray, wait 'til they hear 'Kid Rock for President of the U.S.A.'!"
While the “Cowboy” singer has not filed papers to confirm his election bid for the U.S. Senate seat, he has suggested his commitment through his newly created political website.
But there might be a bump along the road for the singer-turned-potential politician. As previously reported, nonprofit organization Common Cause filed a complaint against the “I Am Bullgod” rapper on September 1, alleging that he’s been campaigning for Senate without registering with the FEC.
“I am starting to see reports from the misinformed press and the fake news on how I am in violation of breaking campaign law,” the singer said in a statement to TheWrap on September 1.
He continued: “No. 1: I have still not officially announced my candidacy. No. 2: See #1 and go f--k yourselves.”
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Are you ready for it? Taylor Swift is all of us in her new commercial for AT&T’s DirecTV Now.
In the clip released on Thursday, September 7, fans are afforded a glimpse at the 27-year-old Grammy winner’s daily routine. The video begins as the “Style” songstress tunes her guitar in the studio. When noticing her cat Olivia in the corner, Swift crawls over to pet and cuddle with the feline.
Soon after, the former country crooner takes a break from the recording studio to indulge in a healthy snack and take a quick — and distracting — phone break. As the “Look What You Made Me Do” singer walks down the hall back to her workspace, she encounters Andy Samberg.
The two exchange a few snarky jabs before Swift tells the Saturday Night Live comedian, “Whatever, Andy Sam-jerk.” The A-listers proceed to have an intense stare-down, compete as caricature artists and end their feud with an “unbelievable choreographed fight sequence” in slow motion. The Hotel Transylvania actor asks the “Blank Space” artist for a timeout, but she kicks him into a wall instead!
After an exhausting fight scene, Swift treats herself to cookie dough before finding her way back to the studio. The commercial ends by teasing a new Taylor Swift song that we, sadly, didn’t get to hear.
“We’re shooting in these kind of fake sets and basically we’re doing this thing where like it’s a day in the life of me. I was really-method acting, I was actually eating the dough each time, so If I have to, you know, I’ll eat the prop food,” the “I Don’t Want to Live Forever” artist joked in a behind-the-scenes video.
Swift’s sixth studio album Reputation drops on Friday, November 10, and is now available for preorder. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


The first group of Hollywood stars who will be presenting at the 69th Emmy Awards on September 17 has been announced. On Wednesday, September 6, the television academy released the list of TV stars that will be taking the podium on the industry’s biggest night, and it includes big names such as Oprah Winfrey, Alec Baldwin, Anna Faris and Big Little Lies stars Reese Witherspoon and Nicole Kidman.
Among those called on to present are Black-ish stars Anthony Anderson and Tracee Ellis Ross, as well as Allison Janney, Shemar Moore, Jessica Biel, Jason Bateman and Lea Michele. Will & Grace’s star Debra Messing, The Big Bang Theory's Jim Parsons, Rashida Jones, Riz Ahmed and Kumail Najiani will also be naming some categories.
Stephen Colbert is set to host for the very first time. Others who have hosted the Emmys in previous years include Jimmy Kimmel, Andy Samberg, Seth Meyers, Neil Patrick Harris, Jane Lynch and Jimmy Fallon.
As previously reported, Westworld and Saturday Night Live are tied for the most nominations, with 22 categories each. This Is Us, The Handmaid's Tale and Veep are also in the running to win a golden statue.
For the full list of presenters, go here.
The 2017 Emmy Awards airs live from the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles, on CBS on Sunday, September 17, at 8 p.m. ET. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Arie Luyendyk Jr. nailed his Bachelor audition. The race car driver, who was runner-up on Emily Maynard's season 8 of The Bachelorette, had an open and honest conversation with ABC producers about his love life before his new gig was revealed on Good Morning America.
"ABC sat with Arie and it was really great to catch up and see where he was in his life," a source exclusively tells Us Weekly. "And he told them he hadn't been in love since Emily and he was so sincere about finding a woman to complete his life, they knew that was their Bachelor!"
Maynard, meanwhile, still speaks fondly of him. "I can't think of a better person to be The Bachelor than Arie and I've been hoping this day would come since Season 8 ended!" the 31-year-old exclusively told Us on Thursday, moments after his new title was announced. "He's a gentleman through and through and all the girls on his season are lucky to have him."
Luyendyk Jr., 35, was previously linked to Courtney Robertson, too. The Bachelor season 16 winner, 34, revealed that they they even hooked up last year.
"I adore Arie," Robertson exclusively told Us in February 2016. "He's a great friend who I like to make out with from time to time!"
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


The Real Housewives of New York City star Luann de Lesseps can pinpoint the exact moment she knew her seven-month marriage to Tom D’Agostino was over.
“It was, like, the week before the reunion basically, and Tom went out and he called an old girlfriend and they met up with a group of people, and I didn’t know about it until I found out about it the next day in the press,” de Lesseps told Andy Cohen in a “One-On-One” episode of Watch What Happens Live on Wednesday, September 6. “That, for me, was the final straw.”
The former couple’s drama was an ongoing storyline on the Bravo reality series. On the show’s May 24 episode, Dorinda Medley, Bethenny Frankel and Carole Radziwill warned de Lesseps that there had been rumors of infidelity by D’Agostino. But the 52-year-old didn’t want to hear it. “I’m totally, 100 percent sure about Tom,” she insisted on the show. “And that’s all that matters.”
Now, de Lesseps wishes she had listened. The mom of Victoria, 22, and Noel, 20, (with ex husband Count Alexandre de Lesseps) admitted during her sit-down with Cohen that she failed to see the “red flags” until it was too late. “I had that moment of ‘Oh my god,’ I had these blinders and all of a sudden they came off,” she revealed. “I thought, ’This is not good.’”
She continued: “I don’t think he could give up his bachelor life to lead a married life the way I wanted to. I think that he really loved me. I really do. He still loves me. At this age, it’s really hard to change people . . . I expected more. I expected him to change.”
Despite the persistent rumors that plagued their relationship, de Lesseps is insistent that the 50-year-old businessman never cheated. “I totally believe he was faithful,” she said. “He’s a flirty guy, he’s a social guy, and I think people take that the wrong way sometimes, but it’s not a good look.”
But she doesn’t blame D’Agostino for the breakup. “It takes two to tango,” she noted. “It was a bad situation that was not going to get any better.”
Meanwhile, D’Agostino is also taking the high road. “There was a real love lost there,” he exclusively told Us Weekly on September 6. “I’m saddened and I wish Luann only the best.”
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Emily Maynard is ecstatic that ex Arie Luyendyk Jr. is the season 22 Bachelor.
"I can't think of a better person to be The Bachelor than Arie and I've been hoping this day would come since Season 8 ended!" Maynard, 31, exclusively tells Us Weekly in a statement. "He's a gentleman through and through and all the girls on his season are lucky to have him."
She adds: "I'll be wishing him nothing but the best because that's absolutely what he deserves!"
Luyendyk Jr., 35, was Maynard's runner-up in her season 8 of The Bachelorette in 2012. She chose Jef Holm, but the pair split in October 2012.
This is happening! #TheBachelor
A post shared by Arie 🏁 (@ariejr) on Sep 7, 2017 at 5:45am PDT
ABC officially (and finally!) revealed that Luyendyk Jr. would be the next hunk to hand out roses during Good Morning America on Thursday.
"The timing really fit," the race car driver said. "I kind of kept things under wraps because I didn't know how this would turn out. It's been such a quick turn of events and my family doesn't know so now they know so they know along with you guys."
Luyendyk Jr. had been keeping quiet on social media leading up to the news. He last posted on Instagram on July 27, but returned on Thursday after the reveal. "This is happening! #TheBachelor," he captioned a pic of himself at GMA.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Swoon alert! Arie Luyendyk Jr. was finally revealed as the season 22 Bachelor during Good Morning America on Thursday, September 7.
"It sunk in just now for sure of the it's been a little surreal," the 35-year-old said on GMA. "I was a little skeptical just because we had been in talks for a few years about doing it so I just kind of went in with an open heart and just kind of hit me right now I'm here."
Even his loved ones didn't even know he was the next Bachelor before the big reveal. "I was at home and it was pretty recent and we kept in touch over the last few years but this just fit perfectly. The timing really fit," he said of when he got the offer. "I kind of kept things under wraps because I didn't know how this would turn out. It's been such a quick turn of events and my family doesn't know so now they know so they know along with you guys."
Luyendyk Jr., who was the runner-up on Emily Maynard's season 8 of The Bachelorette in 2012, nearly landed the Bachelor title last year. He was also up against Luke Pell, who appeared on JoJo Fletcher's Bachelorette season. Pell claimed that he had his bags packed but ABC producers changed their minds last-minute.
"Same exact deal. I just knew two days prior, but same deal: suit fittings; contracts that I signed, but they were delayed on signings on their end; booked flights. Maybe this is a common practice now to throw off fans — I don’t know," Luyendyk Jr. exclusively told Us in September 2016.
We last saw the new Bachelor Arie Luyendyk Jr. on Season 8 of the @BacheloretteABC.@BachelorABC #TheBachelor pic.twitter.com/DV2Ce3RwR4
Although Maynard chose Jef Holm in the end (the pair ended their engagement shortly after the finale), she had strong feelings for the racing driver.
"She was truly in love with two good people. It wasn't clear-cut," a source exclusively told Us in 2012.
Maynard has since moved on from Holm. Late last month, her husband, Tyler Johnson, announced that they are expecting their third child together. The couple are parents of sons Jennings Tyler, 2, and Gibson Kyle, 11 months, and Maynard is mom of daughter Ricki, 12, from a previous relationship.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


He’s coming! Bill Skarsgard hit the red carpet at the Hollywood premiere of his new movie It on Tuesday, September 5, and talked to US Weekly about how it was to transform into his character — the horrifying clown, Pennywise.
The Allegiant star revealed how it felt to see himself as the iconic clown, saying, “It was an amazing, terrifying feeling of seeing the makeup go on for the first time.”
“Up until that point, I didn’t know what the character actually would look like. So every step of the way, I was looking at myself in the mirror, making faces to try to see what this character would eventually be,” he added.
The movie is hitting theaters on Friday, September 8, and it's an adaptation of Stephen King’s 1986 novel of the same name and follows the TV miniseries that aired in 1990 starring Tim Curry as Pennywise. Skarsgard felt the pressure of filling Curry’s shoes but he told Us he hopes to bring something unique to the role.
“Tim Curry’s performance was amazing. It was such a good interpretation of Stephen King’s character in the book,” he said. “We were making a new film, a new adaptation of the book. Of course, I wanted to bring something different and unique to it. Otherwise, I don’t see the point in remaking something. I hope that people can consider both performances separately and appreciate them for what they are.”
Once he landed the role, the actor, 27, admitted that he felt a bit of self-doubt, and didn’t want to disappoint the film’s director Andrés Muschietti and producer Barbara Muschietti.
“I think the first step was there were people who had to be convinced that I could do the job. There was a long process of getting cast. Once I got the role, I was like, 'I got the role!' Then I was like, 'Oh my God, I got the role. How am I going to do this? How am I going to live up these expectations?'” he confessed. “Andy and Barbara, the director and producer, trusted in me, and I really didn’t want to let them down. It was a mixed feeling, but ultimately, of course, I loved the whole thing.”
Skarsgard believes there's still a need for horror films for people to escape the reality of what is happening in the world at the moment.
“I think the world seems to be a very scary place now. More so than ever. Watching a scary movie, you get scared, but it’s safe. There is no real Pennywise, but there are a lot of real scary things going on in the world,” he said. “I don’t know if people are into horror films now more than ever. But I feel that’s what horror films do. You go to see something that’s pretend, and you get scared but it’s not real life. It’s a good feeling."
It hits theaters this Friday, September 8.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


From rose ceremonies to reality! Bachelor in Paradise couple Raven Gates and Adam Gottschalk are still together post-Paradise, Us Weekly can exclusively confirm.
The reality stars started dating on the ABC dating spinoff after meeting in Texas during the two-week production halt. Although Gottschalk, a castoff from Rachel Lindsay’s Bachelorette season, entertained a short-lived romance with Bachelor alum Sarah Vendal during filming, the real estate agent ultimately found love with Gates, Nick Viall’s Bachelor runner-up.
A source tells Us that the duo is happily dating and have enjoyed romantic weekend getaways together. Another insider shared that the Arkansaw native’s parents met her new beau and the couple plans on going to Dallas soon to meet Gottschalk’s parents.
Although neither Gottschalk nor Gates have confirmed their relationship, they’ve shared romantic photos of their Paradise dates on Instagram.
It takes TWO to Tango 💃🏼@ravennicolegates 📸: @natalieshabtai
A post shared by Adam Gottschalk (@adam_gottschalk) on Aug 21, 2017 at 6:21pm PDT
If the boys have the roses this week... does AJ count? 🌹 even though he kinda creeps me out... #BachelorinParadise PS.. never thought I'd be fighting over a grown a** man that has a doll.. 🤷🏻‍♀️
A post shared by ravennicolegates (@ravennicolegates) on Aug 28, 2017 at 2:51pm PDT
The pair was also spotted bowling earlier this week in Los Angeles with other BIP costars.
The Bachelor in Paradise live finale airs on Monday, September 11 at 8 p.m. PT.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Liev Schreiber’s kids were in for a major surprise when the 49-year-old actor appeared on Live With Kelly & Ryan on Wednesday, September 6 — he adopted two rescue puppies displaced by Hurricane Harvey!
While backstage at the ABC show, Schreiber was eyeing pets in the green room that were up for adoption after being displaced by Hurricane Harvey. “I had a dust up with one of your producers,” he joked. “I don’t think it’s fair or appropriate that your producers get to take all of the dogs that came from Houston. My sons want a dog and I found a perfect dog but one of your producers already [wants it].”
The camera then cut backstage to an adorable puppy the father of two was interested in. “Think of my poor 10-year-old son, sitting at home right now, looking at the television and weeping for his beloved Hazelnut,” he continued, adding that his sons were tuning in to watch at home.
After the live show wrapped, the actor FaceTimed with Naomi Watts and sons Alexander “Sasha,” 10, and Samuel, 8, to help pick out the perfect pet. After much deliberation, they decided on a pair of pups who are brother and sister. As for the names? “That’s for Naomi and the boys to decide,” Schreiber explained.
Watts and Schreiber were together for 11 years before announcing their separation in September 2016. They share two sons (and now two dogs), but never married.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Are there more red roses in his future? Bachelorette alum Eric Bigger acted coy when asked if he’s still in talks to be the next Bachelor.
“Could I [be the Bachelor]?” Bigger, 29, teased during an appearance on The Morning Breath podcast on Wednesday, September 6, before addressing franchise creator Mike Fleiss’ most recent poll on who the ABC dating series’ next lead will be.
Newest #TheBachelor power rankings:1. Peter2. Wells3. Ben Z4. Eric5. Chase
Fleiss, 53, revealed that the next Bachelor will not be a castoff from JoJo Fletcher’s season, which eliminates fan-favorite Chase McNary from the running. The showrunner later tweeted that Rachel Lindsay’s season 13 runner-up, Peter Kraus, will likely not be the next Bachelor and neither will Bachelor in Paradise heartthrob Wells Adams, which leaves two men remaining on his list — Bigger and Ben Zorn.
“I’m great then,” the motivational speaker noted, before commenting on Kraus’ ability to commit to the franchise’s speedy process. “I don’t really think that [the show wasn’t for him]. If it’s meant for the person to be the Bachelor or whatever that is, I think it’ll happen. I think Peter’s a great guy. He’s a Pisces, shoutout to Peter. I’m a Pisces. He’s very reserved. He’s him.”
The Baltimore native recently spoke to Us Weekly exclusively about the possibility of becoming the next lead. “It’s not up to me actually. It would have to be an in the moment type of answer,” he told Us in August. “I’m open, you’ve got to stay open, cause things happen.”
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Will Smith granted the wishes of Aladdin fans when he shared the first photo from the set of the live-action remake of the 1992 Disney hit movie.
The 48-year-actor, who is playing the Genie, posted a cast photo on Facebook on Wednesday, September 6. “We just started shooting Aladdin and I wanted to intro you guys to our new family… Mena Massoud/Aladdin, Naomi Scott/Princess Jasmine, Marwan Kenzari/Jafar, and I’m over here gettin my Genie on. Here we go!” Smith captioned a cast selfie.  
His costar Massoud, who plays the titular role of Aladdin, also shared the same shot on Instagram, writing, “Agrabah just got a lot hotter. Ooof! Gonna be keeping you posted on everything Aladdin peeps ;) #Disney #Aladdin #LiveAction.”
Smith has some big shoes to fill as the Genie was originally voiced by the late Robin Williams in the animated version of the film. Williams, who died at age 63 in 2014, won a Golden Globe for the role, but blocked Disney from using any of his Genie vocals in future versions of Aladdin per his will.
The film is being directed by Guy Ritchie and will feature some new characters, such as love rival to Aladdin, Prince Anders, played by Billy Magnussen, and Nasim Pedrad as Jasmine’s friend and handmaiden Mara. The Aladdin remake will also include two brand new songs, in addition to some of the beloved tunes from the original version. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


There was only one man to step up to the, uh, tap.
After Bachelor in Paradise’s unsung hero, bartender Jorge Moren, chose not to return for the soapy spinoff’s fourth season, ABC selected Bachelorette alum Wells Adams to serve up spirits in his place. (Watch the heartthrob explain all in the video above!)
Nestled behind the tiki bar, Adams was always, always there to take the edge off when, say, a girl dubbed you scallop fingers (sorry, Christen Whitney) or, hypothetically, a guy destroyed his role as the Internet’s boyfriend and strung along two girls (looking at you, Dean Unglert).
Pretty large zappatos to fill. You can't replace a legend, you can only try and not screw things up. #bachelorinparadise premiers tonight on ABC 8/7c!
A post shared by Wells Adams (@wellsadams) on Aug 14, 2017 at 4:50pm PDT
And he did so with a specialty cocktail, shared exclusively with Us Weekly. In his go-to concoction: Mint and muddled jalapeños mixed with tequila or vodka “depending on your preference,” he says. After shaking and chilling, he topped the drink off with soda water and a splash of cranberry then garnished with a lime.
“It’s was very refreshing and delicious,” Adams tells Us. “I’m sure it’s like a normal drink and has got some other name, but that was the Wells Special.”
Cheers from behind the bar! #bachelorinparadise
A post shared by Wells Adams (@wellsadams) on Sep 5, 2017 at 6:16pm PDT
And for the extra special Alexis Waters, he crafted a signature shot. Hailed the dolphin-shark in honor of her infamous Bachelor costume, the pour consisted of muddled jalapeños, top shelf tequila and a splash of simple syrup.
“She loved it,” explains Adams, who once vied for JoJo Fletcher’s heart on season 12 The Bachelorette in 2016. “She would have one of those and then she’d be like, ‘Alright, now I’m going to go talk s- -t about Dean and go yell at Jasmine [Goode].’ That’s kind of how it would go every day.”
Bachelor in Paradise airs on ABC Mondays and Tuesdays at 8 p.m. EST.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


After Taylor Swift dropped her new single, “Look What You Made Me Do” — which seemingly takes swipes at foes Kim Kardashian, Kanye West and Katy Perry — fans eagerly anticipated the video that would drop two days later at the MTV Video Music Awards on August 27. But when it finally debuted (it’d go on to rack up a record-shattering 43 -million–plus views in 24 hours) Swift was nowhere to be found.
One reason, explains an insider, was her months-long romance with actor Joe Alwyn. Says the Swift insider, who’s attended the popular awards show eight out of the last nine years, “She didn’t want the media to ask about him. She’s enjoying her private time.”
Meet Taylor 2.0. A source says Swift’s new strategy is to “keep her personal life separate from her work life” and leave the PDA behind. Though the 10-time Grammy winner flaunted her brief romance with Tom Hiddleston (see: his “I [heart] T.S.” tank), she’s taken pains to keep her romance with the 26-year-old Brit under wraps. In June, after he visited her in Nashville, Swift sent Alwyn back to London in her private jet. And the couple, who a source says have been holing up in Swift’s $20 million penthouse loft in NYC’s Tribeca neighborhood, relied on hoodies to stay hidden while out in July. 
A Swift source explains that with some of her past releases, “It’s been Taylor’s M.O. to be seen with a new guy first, have her new single drop and then announce her new album. But this time, she’s kept the guy private. And that’s pretty interesting. She really likes Joe.” Still, notes the source, Swift knows she’ll have to officially re-emerge ahead of Reputation’s November release: “Expect to see them step out together really soon.”
After the fallout from the Hiddleswift split, Swift opted to retreat from public life. Now, as she prepares for re-entry, she’s letting her work do the talking. “LWYMMD” was streamed 8 million times on Spotify its first day. And Swift’s fans have praised her ability to poke fun at her persona.
Now she’s ready to pivot to her romance. “Taylor knows the buzz around her just began, and she’ll want to continue that before her album drops,” says the source. “One way is showing off her new love.” He’s a good prize, says the insider, noting the Mary Queen of Scots actor is “supportive of her career choices. She’s very happy.” That may be the best revenge of all.
For more on Swift, pick up the new issue of Us Weekly, on stands now!
Us Weekly is donating 25c to charity for Hurricane Harvey relief efforts for each copy of this issue of the magazine purchased by consumers on the newsstand. For complete details, including the amount donated, visit here.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!


Sarah Paulson showed off her acting chops during an appearance on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on Tuesday, September 5, where she played the talk show’s famous Wheel of Impressions game and absolutely nailed her take on actresses Kathleen Turner, Holly Hunter and Drew Barrymore.
After the talk show host, 42, explained the rules of the game, the American Horror Story: Cult star was ready to compete against him. The rules of the game dictate they each have a turn to spin the wheel, which is known as the “impressions generator,” and an actress and a random topic will be selected for them. They then have to do the impressions of the people selected, while talking about the particular subject chosen too.
Paulson, 42, did spot-on impressions of the three actresses while discussing topics such as Slip N’ Slides, gas stations and substitute teachers. Her impression of Turner was spot on, mimicking exactly how the actress’ voice sounds and the way in which she speaks, saying, "Listen, Jimmy, believe me. I know all about Slip N' Slides!"
During her third impression, the actress landed on Barrymore talking about a substitute teacher. Barrymore is known for her unique way of speaking out of the side of her mouth, and Paulson knocked it out of the park.
“Drew Barrymore. Basically, my sister, we love Drew. She’s family!” Fallon said.
The AHS star quickly adopted the 50 First Dates star’s famous voice and said: “I’m so, so, thank you. Thank you, thank you so much. I’m so honored to be in attendance today. Okay, thank you so much. I’m talking about substitute teaching. I’m so, so grateful to be here.”
“Her name is Abby Adamson and oh my Gosh, Abby. I love your name so much!” she concluded.
Fallon nailed his own impressions as well, talking about fidget spinners as Al Pacino and discussing McDonald’s drive-thrus as Zack de la Rocha.
Watch the clip above and tune into new episodes of American Horror Story: Cult on Tuesdays at 10 p.m. ET on FX.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Thirteen years after saying goodbye to North Shore High School, the Plastics are back. Find your burn books and whip up some cheese fries, because Tina Fey announced when her iconic and epically quotable movie Mean Girls is coming to Broadway!
The show, which will open on April 8, 2018, at the August Wilson Theater, is bound to be so fetch. “I tried to remember to stay at the core humanity of it, which is the behavior that comes out of all of us sometimes out of jealousy or fear. The great thing about music is it lets you get in people’s heads and inside their emotional lives in a way that you can do with a tight close-up in movies, but it’s so much bigger and warmer [in a musical],” Fey, 47, who penned the Mean Girls book and is adapting the script for stage, told Entertainment Weekly on Tuesday, September 5. “I think fans will hopefully find that this has the DNA of the movie and is true of the spirit of it, but is also opened up in a lot of ways.”
The 2004 flick Mean Girls’ witty take on high school cliques, teenage culture and bullying captivated audiences and had fans holding out hope for a revival ever since the film premiered. The movie starred Rachel McAdams as queen bee Regina George, and Lindsay Lohan, Amanda Seyfried and Lacey Chabert as her loyal followers. Fey revealed that the Broadway production successfully casted actresses who perform their roles as well as the original cast did.
“It’s similar to the experience I had with the movie, where you watch someone like Rachel McAdams and you think, ‘Oh, she made this. She’s such a great talent that she’s actually making this more than is on the page. When you have great actors, like we do with these young women, they bring more to it than you even imagined,” the 30 Rock alum said of finding the ideal actresses to fill the roles of her beloved characters.
The musical will debut at the National Theatre in Washington, D.C. on October 31 on a trial-run before heading over to Broadway.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Christmas came early for Justin Hartley fans! The hunky This Is Us actor, 40, is totally naked in a new NFSW trailer for A Bad Moms Christmas which was released on Wednesday, September 6.
The comedy, featuring Kristen Bell, Mila Kunis and Kathryn Hahn as moms stressed out by the holidays (and their kids and mothers!), is a sequel to 2016’s Bad Moms. The second movie has a raunchy scene where Hartley gets his butt waxed by Hahn. “How’d you guys meet?” Amy (Kunis) asks Hahn, who plays aesthetician Carla, of her stripper Santa date (Hartley). “Waxing his balls,” she replies.
“I can pull my butt crack open for you if you want,” Hartley offers while spreadeagled with his legs in the air during the waxing scene.
“I don’t think anyone has ever asked if they can hold their butt crack open for me before,” she replies. Hartley quips: “I’ll hold my butt crack open for you anytime you want, Carla.”
The actor previously joked he was offended his This Is Us costar Milo Ventimiglia had all the nude scenes on the NBC show. “I’m a little upset about that … I mean, what does that say?” he said during a March appearance on The Talk. “I just leave that to him. He does the butt work.”
A Bad Moms Christmas hits theaters on November 3.
Watch the trailer above!
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Getting personal! Reese Witherspoon and Pink stopped by the Ellen DeGeneres Show on Wednesday, September 6, where they played a very revealing game of “Never Have I Ever.”
When DeGeneres, 59, asked the singer, 37, and actress, 41, if they had ever “done it in a public place,” both women admitted that they had. However, Pink was a bit more willing to open up about the experience, later admitting where her intimate act took place. 
Witherspoon was more coy. “What is ‘it’?"she asked, to which DeGeneres retorted: “You know what ‘it’ is.”
Through a laugh, the Oscar winner negotiated: "I will answer as long as there are no follow-up questions.” Seconds later, DeGeneres ignored her request by asking the women where the public place was for both of them. Pink replied, “The park?” while Witherspoon exclaimed: "I said no follow-up questions!"
When DeGeneres asked if either of the women had snooped through their significant other’s phone without them knowing, both ladies flipped over the paddle to admit that they had, though the comedian said she hadn’t. “All the time,” said Pink, who is married to Carey Hart. “I’m pretty sure he knows, though. The code changes a lot.”
The “Just Like Fire” singer recently opened up about her relationship with Hart, 42, and how her life has taken a turn for the positive since welcoming their children, Willow, 6, and Jameson, 8 months. "All of a sudden I’m a soccer mom and doing the damn thing,” Pink told Us Weekly in May. "No one would have guessed this for me. Honestly, I didn’t realize that you could enjoy it so much.”
In May, a source close to the couple — who previously split in 2003 while dating, and again briefly in 2008 while married —told Us that they are stronger than ever. “They’ve been through a lot, but they are solid now,” the insider revealed at the time. “They love their life together.”
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Is this the real life, is this just fantasy? Rami Malek looks just like late Queen frontman Freddie Mercury in the first photo from the upcoming biopic Bohemian Rhapsody.
Entertainment Weekly published the first look on Tuesday, September 5,  which would have been the singer's 71st birthday. He died at the age of 45 in November 1991 of bronchial pneumonia resulting from AIDS.
Exclusive: @ItsRamiMalek is #FreddieMercury in this 'Bohemian Rhapsody' first look: https://t.co/xfpQKXgVNZ pic.twitter.com/cplCnggZtW
Bohemian Rhapsody, which is named after Queen's iconic 1975 hit, chronicles the British band from 1970 to 1985. In the first photo, Malek, 36, channels Mercury's look from Queen's performance at the 1985 benefit concert Live Aid.
"When you're able to open your eyes and see a different person staring back at you in the mirror, it's a very affirming moment," the Mr. Robot star told EW of the first time he saw himself in hair and makeup. Resembling the flamboyant musician "only adds to the level of confidence that one would need to play Freddie Mercury," he added.
The movie will feature Malek's own singing voice, recordings of Mercury and a soundalike. "We're going to use Freddie as much as possible and use myself as much as possible," Malek said. "I'm in Abbey Road [Studios] right now if that should say anything to you. I'm not working on my acting."
Bohemian Rhapsody, which is directed by Bryan Singer, hits theaters on December 25, 2018.
Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Jimmy Fallon and The Tonight Show are helping Hurricane Harvey victims in a big way. The host announced during the Tuesday, September 5, episode that his NBC late-night show is donating $1 million to J.J. Watt’s Hurricane Harvey relief fund.
“Last week we saw the devastating effects of Hurricane Harvey on the state of Texas,” Fallon, 42, said. “But in the face of this tragedy, we saw good. We saw communities banding together. Neighbors helping neighbors. Strangers helping strangers. So many heroes - people like Mattress Mack, who opened up his stores and showrooms for those who needed shelter, the group of people who formed a human chain to save a man from a flooded SUV, and J.J. Watt from the Houston Texans, who has raised over $18 million dollars to provide food, water, and supplies to the victims.”
“And I'm proud to say that our show, The Tonight Show, is donating $1 million dollars to JJ’s fund. Thank you, JJ,” Fallon continued. “One of the most inspiring clips I saw last week was a video of two singers — Victoria White and Marquist Taylor — who visited a storm shelter and formed a spontaneous gospel choir to sing to hurricane evacuees.”
Fallon then introduced White and Taylor, as well as a Houston choir, to sing “Lean On Me.” The choir even changed the lyrics to “Lean on me, Houston” in tribute to the city that was devastated by massive flooding.
The Tonight Show airs weekdays on NBC at 11:35 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


A new group of celebrities is ready to step onto the dance floor! ABC announced the Dancing With the Stars’ season 25 cast list on Good Morning America on Wednesday, September 6, and it includes Total Divas’ Nikki Bella (paired with pro Artem Chigvintsev) and Shark Tank star Barbara Corcoran (with Keo Motsepe).
As in seasons past, many athletes will enter the ballroom when the season kicks off on Monday, September 18. Former NBA player Derek Fisher will partner up with Sharna Burgess, while former paralympic swimmer Victoria Arlen will dance alongside Val Chmerkovskiy. As announced on Tuesday, September 5, former NFL star Terrell Owens will hit the dance floor with Cheryl Burke.
Two of the biggest couplings? Nick Lachey will team up with Peta Murgatroyd while his wife, Vanessa Lachey, is partnered with Murgatroyd's hubby — Maks Chmerkovskiy! Let the battle begin!
Stars in music are ready to make moves as well. Violinist Lindsey Stirling will dance with Mark Ballas in the hopes of getting a perfect 10 from the judges. Singer Jordan Fisher will get in the studio with Lindsay Arnold as Debbie Gibson partners with Alan Bersten.
Also competing for the champion title are Property Brothers’ Drew Scott (with Emma Slater), actor Frankie Muniz (with Witney Carson) and Pretty Little Liars alum Sasha Pieterse (with Gleb Savchenko).
The reigning champion on the competition series is former NFL pro Rashad Jennings, who partnered with Slater to beat out runners up David Ross and Arnold as well as third-place finals Normani Kordei and Val Cherkovskiy on the show’s May 23 season 24 finale.
Dancing With the Stars returns TO ABC on Monday, September 18, at 8 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


On set romance! Dancing With the Stars’ Carrie Ann Inaba is rooting for the pro dancers who have found love in the ballroom. She revealed her favorite real life DWTS couples in an exclusive interview with Us Weekly.
“There are so many now!” the judge, 49, exclaimed to Us. “I love Maks [Chmerkovskiy] and Peta [Murgatroyd]. I love Sasha [Farber] and Emma [Slater].”
Both pairings have been featured on the ABC series for several seasons. Us broke the news in July that Chmerkovskiy, 37, and Murgatroyd, 31, who are parents of son Shai, 7 months, tied the knot at Huntington, New York’s Oheka Castle. Farber, 33, meanwhile, proposed to Slater, 28, during a live taping of the show in October 2016.
“Watching that proposal when Sasha got down on his knee with Emma was just such a great moment and they’re such great people,” Inaba added to Us. “I’m so happy for everyone on DWTS. Apparently, love is in the air!”
Farber and Slater are slated to appear on DWTS in the upcoming 25th season. The celebrity contestants and their pro partner will officially be announced on Wednesday, September 6.
As for if Sean Spicer will be on the list? “I have no idea. Honestly, and people don’t believe me, but we don’t know who the contestants are before anyone else,” Inaba told Us when asked about the past rumors that the White House press secretary may join the show. “I’m watching Good Morning America right along with the fans – I often live tweet during it. So I have no idea about Sean Spicer, but Melissa McCarthy as Sean Spicer would be hilarious. She’s so funny!” McCarthy, 47, of course, has impersonated Spicer, 45, on Saturday Night Live.
For more, read the rest of her Q&A below:
US: Who has been your favorite contestant?
CAI: This is so hard. I think the best dancer was Normani Kordei from Fifth Harmony. She was partnered with Val last season. My favorite contestant for a different reason was Evander Holifield. He was the first male athlete to be on our show. He’s such a masculine role model and the fact that he came on to a ballroom dance show set the precedent for all male athletes to come on our show. And as you know, athletes have done so well on our show.
US: What incident shocked you the most over the years?
CAI: I think there is a different incident each year that is shocking. That’s the exciting part about DWTS, you think you know who’s got the audience behind them, because they’ve gotten really good scores from the judges. Then we get these crazy, unexpected eliminations. Like last season, when Normani didn’t win, I think it shocked the world. It shocked the judges. We were like, ‘Woah.’
Last season we also lost Heather Morris, which was surprising. But the dynamic on DWTS is that everyone has to not only think you’re a great dancer, the judges have to think you’re a great dancer. But the people at home need to fall in love with you.
US: How long do you see yourself working on DWTS?
CAI: My goal in life is to be the Vanna White of DWTS. I want to be like Vanna. And then, my dream contestant is Manny Pacquio. But I have so many, I also love comedians on our show, too. I think they do really well. We’ve never had a golfer, I’d love to see a golfer.
Season 25 of Dancing With the Stars premieres Monday, September 18, on ABC at 8 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Couple alert! On the Tuesday, September 5, episode of Bachelor in Paradise, all of the campers had pretty much coupled up. Derek and Taylor, Robby and Amanda, Adam and Raven, Jack and Christen, Daniel and Lacey, Dominique and Diggy, and – last but not least – Dean and Danielle L. Just as things had started to settle down following Kristina’s dramatic departure, Jaimi arrived and promptly reminded Chris Harrison that she was open to dating both men and women.
Ultimately, Jaimi decided to go out with Diggy, much to Dominique’s dismay. “If someone’s checking me out,” Jaimi reasoned, “He’s obviously not that into you.” Sorry, Dominique. “I’m just hoping that I won’t be heartbroken,” she confessed to the camera.
Jaimi and Diggy Make Out
Jaimi and Diggy headed to the local town where everyone heads to for their dates. After Diggy failed to guess her ethnic background correctly, Jaimi explained that to her being bisexual didn’t mean she liked men and women, but that she just “flowed” with whatever or whoever she was feeling. Huh. “We’re coming to the end of this and I could leave Paradise alone,” Dominique later lamented to the camera.
Twinning
Danielle L was still basking in the glow of Kristina’s departure, explaining that it had been hard to move things forward with Dean while Kristina was still around. That’s when Haley and Emily showed up. “We’re just here to f—k s—t up,” they eloquently explained. Chris urged them to not take no for an answer and “give ‘em hell.” Wells called them a “national treasure.”
Amanda promptly filled them in, but neither of the blonde sisters were interested in the two available guys: Jonathan and Jack. They were distraught to hear that both Dean and Derek were basically unavailable.
Dean Turns Down Emily
Since Derek was obviously not going to say yes to a date, Haley settled for “serial killer” Jack. Emily, meanwhile, asked Dean anyway. “Umm, I don’t know,” he said before asking her to read him what the date card said. “You’re going to say no to me?” Emily asked with a giant smile. Dean said he would be doing a “disservice” to both Kristina and Danielle L if he said yes, but noted that Emily was really hot. “I’m not going on a date with anyone else but you,” Emily reiterated. “I just can’t say yes,” he said.
Emily then pulled Danielle L aside to ask her how she would feel if she took Dean on a date. “At the end of the day, it’s his decision,” Danielle L said. “If Dean says yes to Emily, I think D-Lo will go nuts,” Christen said. Emily then looped back to Dean and tried again. He, again, said no.
The Twins Go Psycho
With no other choices, she asked Jonathan to join her on the date – but she really, really wasn’t happy about it. During a camera interview, the twins explained that they’d come for two men, specifically, but “it turns out they’re dating shallow, ugly whores.” Then they (begrudgingly) got ready for their double date.
“We decided we’re going to go on this date with each other and bring these two douchebags with us.” A few minutes before they were supposed to leave, Jack told Haley he decided not to go because he wanted to hang out with Christen instead. “F—k everybody here!” she shouted as both she and her sister stormed off.
Then they started throwing scallops everywhere. “Why would I want to spend time with anyone who acts like that?” Jack asked. His decision seemed to strengthen his bond with Christen. “What I’m really excited about right now is getting to know Christen outside of paradise,” he said, adding that he could see them falling in love and getting married one day.
Taylor and Derek Get Real
“I see you as somebody that I can fall in love with,” Derek said as he snuggled with Taylor on the beach. “And you know, I see glimmers of that and I feel like I’m falling in love with you.” She told the camera that she wanted to “lean into that with him.” Derek then told the camera that he saw her as his life partner and thought they could have a future together. “I’m about to get my happy ending,” she cooed as the sun went down over the ocean. “I can absolutely say that I am in love with her,” he later said.
Tell Us: What did you think of the latest episode?
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Time to play detective! Bachelor and Bachelorette executive producer Mike Fleiss has been giving out some major clues about who will be the next Bachelor for the show’s 22nd season.
Fleiss first teased on August 30 that he would soon be announcing some “shocking” news related to the ABC dating show. A few days later, he tweeted that ABC was “very close to being able to finally announce #TheBachelor." Since fans are still awaiting the big announcement, Us Weekly rounded up all his clues and what they could mean.
1. It’s Not Nick.
After Fleiss shared a GIF of Nick Benvenutti getting out of the limo in a Santa costume on night one of JoJo Fletcher’s season 12 of The Bachelorette, fans speculated that St. Nick could be the leading man. However, he quickly clarified, “Nick is NOT the next #TheBachelor."
Then, he also ruled out last season’s Bachelor, Nick Viall, who recently ended his engagement with Vanessa Grimaldi. “I didn’t say WHICH Nick is not the next #Bachelor,” he tweeted. “Neither of them.”
2. It’s Not Whaboom!
The ABC producer assured Bachelor Nation that Lucas “Whaboom” Yancey, who annoyed his fellow contestants on Rachel Lindsay’s season 13 of The Bachelorette with his catchphrase, has not nabbing the coveted role. “We’ve also ruled out Whaboom! Rest easy. #BachelorNation,” Fleiss shared. 
3. It’s Not Fleiss Himself or Chris Harrison.
“I’m very flattered by your tweets, but I cannot be #the bachelor. I’m a happily married man…” Fleiss wrote. “Yes, @chrisbharrison’s name is on the board. It’s a long shot, tho…”
Harrison took himself out of the running, though. “Just heard from @chrisbharrison. Unfortunately, he is no longer a candidate to be #thebachelor…” Fleiss added.
4. He Won’t Be From JoJo’s Season.
“First Big Clue…#TheBachelor will not be from Jojo’s season,” the producer wrote. This officially ruled out fan favorites such as Wells Adams, Chase McNary and Luke Pell.
5. It Won’t Be a Dual Bachelor.
During the Bachelorette season 11, fans were split between Kaitlyn Bristowe and Britt Nilsson as the leading lady, so they both showed up to the mansion on the first night and the men decided who they would like to see as the Bachelorette. Fleiss seemed to hint that won’t be the case this year. “So many solid choices for #thebachelor … But we can only pick one,” he tweeted. “Always a tough call.”
6. It’s Not Dean Unglert.
Unglert stole hearts on Lindsay’s season, but he won’t be getting a turn as Bachelor. “Dean will not be #TheBachelor this year, at least…” Fleiss shared.
Fleiss has also been asking Twitter users to weigh in and submit their picks for the season 22 Bachelor. Some of the names currently topping the list that haven’t been ruled out are Peter Kraus, Eric Bigger, Ben Higgins, Arie Luyendyk Jr. and Ben Zorn. 
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


The bus is once again doing its stuff! Netflix released the trailer for its Magic School Bus revival series, The Magic School Bus Rides Again, which will premiere on Friday, September 29.
In the trailer, Ms. Frizzle (Lily Tomlin, who voiced the character in the original series as well) hands off the keys to the magic bus to her younger sister, the new Ms. Frizzle (Kate McKinnon), who takes over her class. Shortly after, a montage of clips from the new series plays, set to the show’s updated theme song, which is voiced by Lin Manuel Miranda.
The preview shows the Walkerville School group going through a series of adventures reminiscent of the original 1990s series, such as traveling through space and the human body. The new series will have the same educational outings that fans of the beloved show are familiar with. However, it will also take on a modern twist as the crew heads into more timely adventures such as going across the internet.
Miranda tweeted his excitement on Tuesday, September 5, about singing the track for the show. "Hey Lin Magic School Bus is coming back do you want to sing th-YEEEEEEEEEEEEEES,” he wrote. "Also I recorded this in the same studio in London where they record Peppa Pig so."
Watch the fun-filled trailer for the animated series above.
The Magic School Bus Rides Again premieres on Netflix on September 29.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


American Horror Story: Cult is inspired by the 2016 presidential reaction and its aftermath, but it is not directly about Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton.
"Our feeling is that everybody lost their s--t after the election — Republican, Democrat — and everybody's still losing their s--t, and nobody's really figured out from either side where to put those feelings," creator Ryan Murphy said at a recent press event, via The Hollywood Reporter.
"There is no real discussion. Everybody's still at each other's throats, you're either on one side or you're on the other," the showrunner, 51, continued. "The season really is not about Trump, it's not about Clinton. It's about somebody who has the wherewithal to put their finger up in the wind and see that that's what's happening and is using that to rise up and form power, and using people's vulnerabilities about how they're afraid and don't know where to turn, and they feel like the world is on fire."
However, main characters Ally Mayfair-Richards (Sarah Paulson) and Kai Anderson (Evan Peters) "have very strong views" about Trump, 71, and Clinton, 69, according to Murphy. In fact, Peters, 30, plays a total of six cult leaders throughout season 7 of the FX anthology, including Charles Manson, David Koresh and Andy Warhol.
Still, Murphy, who was an outspoken Clinton supporter, insists he didn't sneak his own political beliefs into the show. "The world we're living in is ridiculous. So, I think that the show, in some ways, is reflecting the idea that nothing makes sense, and the only way to get through it is to try and have some degree of humor about it," he said.
American Horror Story: Cult premieres on FX on Tuesday, September 5, at 10 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.


Hope the jury house is stocked! Matthew Clines was known for three things in the Big Brother household: His showmance with Raven Walton, his cereal obsession and that good ole blue shirt.
The Virginia native, who recently got into a massive argument with fellow houseguest Jason Dent, was often spotted in the kitchen eating his favorite breakfast meal when not competing in competitions.
“Conservatively you would have to think [I ate] 150 but probably more like 250-300 bowls is realistic,” the 33-year-old exclusively tells Us Weekly. “My favorite cereals are Reese’s Puffs, Cap’n Crunch, Lucky Charms, Honey Bunches of Oats, Cinnamon Toast Crunch and [Kellogg’s] Smorz.”
Clines was just as obsessed with Walton, 23, during the game. Although, he didn’t specify if they will put a label on their relationship in the real world.
“Being in the house, it was like having a best friend that is also really really hot and I’m attracted to. As everyone saw, we had so much fun together and never got into a fight. We lined up really well and had such a good time together. The entire game she stayed true to herself. She always had my back and stood up for me,” the renovation consultant tells Us. “In terms of outside of the house, we are definitely going to hang out and have a lot of cool plans. Worst case scenario we’ll be friends forever and best case scenario who knows.”
For more, read the rest of his Q&A below:
US: You and Jason gave each other a big hug before you left. Do you want him to go far in the game?
MC: No, I want to see Jason as soon as possible. Not just from the fact that he evicted me, but if he wants to win the game, I don’t think it was a good move. To keep Kevin [Schlehuber] in the game is maybe one jury vote but he just eliminated two jury votes with me and Raven. I hope to see him next in the jury house.
US: Did you think Zingbot’s joke against Raven went too far?
MC: Zingbot was great! I just didn’t think it was very funny. He had better zings against other people.
US: Why was that blue shirt often your go-to in the house?
MC: I love blue! Those shirts from Walmart are comfortable and it was an easy choice.
Big Brother airs on CBS on Sundays and Wednesdays at 8 p.m. ET and Thursdays at 9 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Mama drama! Jenelle Evans’ mom, Barbara Evans, kept the reality star's son Jace away from her on Mother’s Day during the Monday, September 4, episode of Teen Mom 2. Kailyn Lowry and ex Javi Marroquin also butted heads once more. Check out the five craziest moments that went down.
Javi and Kailyn on the Rocks
Javi and Kailyn were back to getting along after their recent court drama, but it definitely didn’t last. Javi decided to serve Kailyn a petition for child support so he would be getting some money from his ex in return.
“I’m not going to make her go broke,” he said, but she obviously was not happy.
“He wants to be spiteful and it’s because he wants the money,” she snapped. “Nothing Javi does surprises me anymore.”
Leah Messer Finally Gets Good News
Leah's daughter Ali had to travel to a specialized doctor to get her breathing problems checked out, and Leah was a wreck, but put on a brave face for her daughter.
“I love you and you’re going to do just fine,” she said.
Leah finally got to relax when the doctors told her Ali had no heart or lung complications and they gave her breathing medicine.
“We’ll just take it one day at a time,” she said to her ex Corey Simms.
Jenelle Doesn’t See Jace on Mother’s Day
Jenelle just wanted to spend Mother’s Day with all of her kids, but her mom wasn’t letting her have Jace after their last blowout. "Everyone’s with their mom and not my son,” Jenelle said. “I’m done with everyone’s drama.”
Barbara almost let Jace go, but only if Jenelle's fiancé, David Eason, wasn't around. "David’s here forever so Jace has to get used to it,” Jenelle screamed at her mom. “You’re the grandmother and you need to learn your f--king place."
Chelsea Houska Feels Old
Chelsea got emotional when her daughter finished her last day of first grade. "It won’t hit me until she actually starts,” she said. They celebrated the big day by baking a cake and having a party, and it seemed bittersweet for the mom of two.
Briana DeJesus Pretends to Be With Her Ex Still
Briana was preparing for her baby shower, and there was added pressure because she had to pretend to be together with her ex Luis in front of her extended family. "I just don’t want to disappoint my family again,” she said.
She was annoyed while decorating for the shower because she felt like she was alone and when she voiced her concerns her mom couldn’t take it.
“Everybody’s here to f--king support you. Appreciate that,” her mom said.
Tell Us: What did you think of the latest episode?
Teen Mom 2 airs on MTV Mondays at 9 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Terrell Owens has been revealed as the latest celebrity who will compete for the coveted Mirrorball trophy on Dancing With the Stars season 25.
The former NFL star, 43, announced on Good Morning America on Tuesday, September 5, that he will be dancing on the ABC series alongside pro Cheryl Burke.  "He's got some rhythm. We gotta start from the beginning because he's never danced before, ballroom, at least,” two-time winner Burke explained of Owens on GMA.  "He's all about lights, camera, action. He's a performer. I'm definitely going to use that to our advantage.”
Burke, 33, added: “As long as we do the work in the dance studio and really practice hard, then he can do whatever he likes on the dance floor."
As previously reported, Owens will compete against Property Brothers’ Drew Scott, former NBA star Derek Fisher, actor-singer Jordan Fisher, Nick and Vanessa Lachey, violinist Lindsey Stirling, Frankie Muniz and former paralympic swimmer Victoria Arlen. Bobby Brown was supposed to compete, however Us Weekly exclusively revealed that he had a change of heart at the last minute. 
Several pros are returning this year, including Mark Ballas, who took two seasons off to star on Broadway’s Jersey Boys. Maksim Chmerkovskiy, Lindsay Arnold, Artem Chigvintsev, Gleb Savchenko, Keo Motepse, Sharna Burgess, Witney Carson and Val Chmerkovskiy will also once again step out on the dance floor. Troupe dancer Alan Bersten is making his debut as a full-time pro after filling in for Maks throughout his injury last season.
Dancing With the Stars season 25 premieres on ABC on Monday, September 18, at 8 p.m. ET.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


There’s been plenty of trouble brewing on Bachelor in Paradise. The Monday, September 4, episode of the reality show opened with Dean caught in a love triangle with Danielle L and Kristina. Robby explained to Dean that both he and Kristina had watched Dean all over Danielle L in the pool the night before. “[Kristina] was bawling her eyes out,” Robby reported to Dean. “It’s all on me for just being a moron,” Dean said to the camera. “And it’s getting me in trouble, left and right.”

Kristina Cries to Dean
Dean talked it out with Kristina. He guessed that she was mad that he was “chicken fighting” with Danielle L. She said chicken fighting was not what she saw. “That was so disrespectful to me,” she said to him. “I do not deserve that.” Dean said that he hadn’t figured out what he wanted just yet. That was pretty obvious to Kristina, but she wasn’t into the idea of waiting around while he came to a decision. “You have no idea how much it stung,” she said through tears. Then she kissed him on the cheek and pretty much took off. Message received. that.” Dean said that he hadn’t figured out what he wanted just yet. That was pretty obvious to Kristina, but she wasn’t into the idea of waiting around while he came to a decision. “You have no idea how much it stung,” she said through tears. Then she kissed him on the cheek and pretty much took off. Message received.
Meanwhile, yearning for a romantic connection, Jasmine hooked up with Jonathan (aka Tickle Monster) in the pool. She insisted it was really great because he tickled her stomach while they kissed.
Blake Arrives With a Date Card – and so Does Fred
Blake arrived feeling like king of the castle because he had a date card. He then started making the rounds complaining about Lucas (aka Whaboom). Danielle L told him point-blank that she would turn him down if he asked her on a date. Kristina spoke to him to be nice, but she didn’t seem very into him. Later, when he asked her to go on a date, she said no.
Next up, Freddy arrived. Within two minutes Dominique agreed to go on a date with him, leaving Blake feeling not so great. Sensing things were getting dire, he asked out Christen, who first demanded to know that he’d already asked Kristina. Despite that awkward moment, Christen agreed. Jack Stone wasn’t so happy about that.
Jack Stone Is a Bad Kisser — Not
Apparently, Jack Stone is a terrible kisser. Dean reasoned that Jack was a 30-year-old man who needed to know if he was really that bad. Jasmine and Raven decided to test him out, but he refused – at least, he refused until after they had some shots. “Jack is a great kisser!” Jasmine declared. That got Danielle L wondering, so she took him for a test drive, too. “Yeah, Jack’s a good kisser,” she confirmed to the camera. Next up was Raven. “Everyone just wanted to kiss him,” Danielle L said. “He had the best day of his life.”
Meanwhile, Christen was not having as much fun on her double date with Blake, Dominique and Fred. After getting seasick and getting a gallon of saltwater in her eyes, she lost her contact in the ocean. “She is miserable,” Dominique said. “But I’m having a really great time on this date!”
Robby and Amanda Take It to the Next Level
Robby landed a date card and promptly asked Amanda to join him. During their date, he told her that he was falling hard in a way that he hadn’t fallen before. “I want to move forward with her as fast as possible,” he said. She seemed smitten as they headed into the rose ceremony (which was happening sooner than expected).
Before the ceremony, however, Ben decided to bow out. He really missed his dog. Somehow this made Diggy more determined than ever to try to make a romantic connection with Dominique.
Scallop Fingers or Bust
Before the rose ceremony, Christen found out that her nickname was Scallop Fingers. Blake didn’t care about her nickname at all. He just wanted her rose. Blake promptly made out with her – but soon after Tickle Monster made his pitch. It also involved kissing.
You were out of my league
A post shared by Dean Michael Unglert 🌹 (@deanie_babies) on Sep 4, 2017 at 8:40pm PDT
Dean Makes His Choice
Meanwhile, Dean assured Danielle L that he was going to officially end things with Kristina because he wanted to pursue a relationship with her. “I know what’s best for me. I know what would make me happiest, is to pursue D-Lo,” he said. Kristina pointed out that Danielle L had been making out with Jack Stone just hours before.
Kristina then went after Danielle L. Raven urged her not to blame Danielle, but Kristina wasn’t having it. Wells then asked Kristina why she was fighting for someone who wasn’t fighting for her.
Rose Ceremony
The ladies were handing out the roses tonight. Lacey was up first and gave her rose to Daniel. Taylor gave hers to Derek – no surprise there. Amanda gave her rose to Robby. Dominique gave her rose to Diggy, much to Fred’s dismay. Jasmine gave her rose to Jonathan. Christen gave her rose to Jack Stone. (Sorry, Blake!) Kristina was next and used her moment to announce that she would not be giving out her rose and was leaving instead. Dean walked her out and they exchanged a hug before she left. Danielle L finished out the night by giving her rose to Dean.
Tell Us: Do you think Dean made the right choice?
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page!


Acting ain't easy! Former Spice Girl Geri Halliwell learned that lesson in a most hilarious way when she ran into Game of Thrones star Kit Harington at the Italian Grand Prix in Monza on Sunday, September 3.
The 45-year-old songstress, formerly known as Ginger Spice, shared an Instagram video of herself with the actor in which he teaches her how to recite one of the HBO drama's most famous lines.
"You know nothing, Jon Snow! You know nothing, Jon Snow," Halliwell intoned several times before the actor corrected her.
"You know nothing, Jon Snow," he recited seriously.
Halliwell tried again and finally earned his approval — sort of. "Yeeaahhh," the 30-year-old actor, who portrays Jon Snow, hesitatingly said before the singer asked for advice on how to nail the five-word line. She finally perfected it and earned praise from Harington: "That's it! You got the part!"
But then she quickly flubbed it once more as the actor laughed at her efforts: "Now you've lost it again!"
The line was uttered multiple times by the King in the North's love, the wildling Ygritte (played by his real-life girlfriend, Rose Leslie), including during her final breaths when she died in season 4 of the hit show based on George R. R. Martin's fantasy novels.
Harington was also spotted at the Italian Grand Prix with Game of Thrones costar Liam Cunningham, who plays Ser Davos Seaworth, on Friday, September 1.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now!
For the latest celebrity entertainment, news and lifestyle videos, subscribe to Us Weekly's YouTube Page.






