
Midway through Stevie Wonder’s 1973 hit “Living for the City,” the music stops for a skit in which a black man arrives in New York City and is promptly arrested while crossing the street and sentenced to 10 years in prison. That passage, recorded more than four decades ago, speaks to some of the deeply entrenched problems that Colin Kaepernick—and, as of this past weekend, hundreds of other athletes—protests by kneeling during the national anthem.
So it’s not surprising that Wonder was among the first to bring Kaepernick’s gesture into the music world. At the Global Citizen Festival in Central Park on Saturday, the 67-year-old Wonder, helped by his son Kwame Morris, bent both knees—one for America and one, he said, for the world.  A day later, he repeated the gesture with Dave Matthews Band at a concert in Charlottesville, Virginia, benefitting those affected by recent violence there. On the second occasion, he gave a speech mourning bigotry: “If I can see it, dammit, I know you can see it.”
How Trump Turns Unpopular Outbursts Into Political Winners
Donald Trump’s “son of a bitch” comment alluding to Kaepernick and the resulting “take a knee” movement may seem like further confirmation that, under this reality-TV president, the cultural is newly political and vice versa. But entertainers have always been more than entertaining, as Wonder’s example shows. Kaepernick’s defiance, meanwhile, follows in a line that includes Jackie Robinson, Muhammad Ali, and the Olympic sprinters Tommie Smith and John Carlos. The biggest novelty in this latest chapter is just that the president is entering the fray.
The events of this past weekend also highlight the different roles that different kinds of entertainment play in the national discourse. “This is a job,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said to ABC News when defending Donald Trump’s call for protesting athletes to be fired. “And the employers have the right, when the players are working, to have rules.” He was calling for the NFL’s teams as private businesses to curtail First Amendment expressions for players—as they already do, in various ways. Trump’s desire for a shut-up-and-play paradigm to apply to national-anthem etiquette really isn’t far-fetched: “Sports has become a trillion-dollar global entity by projecting athletes, really, who are as bland and apolitical as possible so they don’t offend anybody in the audience,” Dave Zirin, the author of Game Over: How Politics Has Turned the Sports World Upside Down, told NPR in 2013.

The same cannot entirely be said for talents who work in the cultural spheres more readily described as “the arts”—music, film, literature, etc. Commerce certainly shapes the creative expressions of the art world, but even the big-tent pop stars of our time are given to political statements. Kaepernick’s concerns about police brutality are echoed not only in Wonder’s catalogue but also in countless other musicians’ work, from Kendrick Lamar to Lady Gaga. Moreover, the Trump era has seen artworks way more explicitly “disrespectful” to national symbols than anything any athlete has tried. Rappers have toyed with the specter of presidential assassination. Visual artists have replaced the Statue of Liberty’s face with a vagina and painted the American flag in blood. Typically, an artist has to be pretty famous and their work extremely shocking—see Kathy Griffin’s mock decapitation of Trump—to get anything near Kaepernick’s level of attention.
It is largely the presumption of commerce over expression in sports that allows for protests like Kaepernick’s to be so transgressive—and to draw Trump’s special ire. “He’s fired!” Trump bellowed during his Alabama rally, objecting not to athletes protesting as citizens or even as public figures, but rather as employees of a large commercial entity. As many times before, the president’s culture-war escalations are couched in capitalist terms—talk of fan boycotts and dented ratings. “If you see it, even if it’s one player, leave the stadium,” Trump told his audience about kneeling players. “I guarantee things will stop.”
Few people in Stevie Wonder’s audience are likely to walk out if the man who wrote “Living for the City” takes a knee (or if he, as he did at a recent telethon for hurricane relief, calls global-warming skeptics “blind or unintelligent”). Same goes for fans of other artists who’ve followed Wonder’s example and knelt—a list that so far includes Pharrell, John Legend, Eddie Vedder, De La Soul’s Posdnuos, and eight castmembers of 1984 on Broadway. Such creators are expected to give voice to the struggles that led Kaepernick to protest in the first place; it is, in large part, the job of an artist. In doing so, they build their own largely like-minded constituency—it’s often when fans are caught off guard by an artist’s political stance that truly damaging blowback results.
But Wonder’s career is also an example of the power that a hitmaking artist can have as a crystallizer of political attitudes and a chronicler of the moment. Two days before Richard Nixon resigned from office, Wonder released “You Haven’t Done Nothin’”—an eventual No. 1 hit that would be widely seen as a not-so-fond farewell to the president: “We are amazed but not amused / by all the things you say that you’ll do,” he sang. During the 2016 presidential campaign, other musicians remixed the song to refer to Donald Trump. Wonder himself hasn’t officially updated “You Haven’t Don’t Nothin’,” but it’s not hard to imagine, as the president continues to bite back at his critics across the pop-culture landscape, that he might yet.


“The truth is, I am kind of done with politics for now.”
That was Megyn Kelly, on Monday morning, talking to her studio audience during the live debut of her new NBC morning show, Megyn Kelly Today. In response to the declaration, the people gathered within the airy, brightly lit set roared with approval. “Right? I know!” the host continued, her tone breezy and conspiratorial. “You know why! We all feel it. It’s eeeverywhere. It’s everywhere.”
Pleasingly apolitical, relatably indignant, preternaturally glossy: It’s a brand Kelly has been working to cultivate throughout her television career, but particularly within the whirl of publicity that has led to today’s morning-TV debut. In Kelly’s 2016 autobiography, and in glowing profiles with headlines like “Blowhards, Beware: Megyn Kelly Will Slay You Now” and “After Fox, Megyn Kelly Aims To Be a Force for Good,” the former Fox News Channel host—having moved, earlier this year, to NBC—has made a point of emphasizing her conviction that politics is a choice one can make, a topic that can be cordoned off from all the others, and, as such, willfully avoided. “Megyn Kelly Doesn’t Want to Be Political” was the headline of an interview Kelly gave to Elle magazine’s Mattie Kahn, its publication timed to coincide with Monday’s premiere of Megyn Kelly Today. The conversation went in part, like this:
Kahn: But tuning out seems incredibly difficult right now. I’m thinking of people like Jemele Hill on ESPN. There’s a way that politics seeps into so much—
Kelly: She got political.
Kahn: She did.
Kelly: She didn’t have to.
Politics as unseemly—politics as inconvenient—politics as something viewers all feel, and all would prefer to ignore—was thus, unsurprisingly, the ethic Kelly brought to the debut of Megyn Kelly Today, an hour of television that was by turns performatively wacky, stridently emotional, fun, awkward, informative, and weird. There Kelly was, the former lawyer, merrily riding a tandem bike with Al Roker through Times Square. There she was, frying eggs with Matt Lauer (as she flipped them, the eggs splattered over the edges of her pan; Lauer congratulated her nonetheless). There she was, talking in confessional tones about her decision to move to daytime TV (“I wasn’t happy, but I was scared to change”). There she was, tearing up as she told the story of her father’s death, when she was 15, of a heart attack. There she was, receiving a bouquet of red roses from her husband, Doug, who spent the show seated next to Kelly’s mom on a set whose blonde woods and soft lights evoked a Malibu mansion. “Oh! This is a surprise,” Kelly said in response to her husband’s gesture, unconvincingly.
Can Megyn Kelly Escape Her Past?
What Megyn Kelly Today also featured, however, was very, very much of the thing Kelly had cheerily insisted it wouldn’t. Politics, as they are wont to do, infused the morning’s proceedings—there because, yes, politics are eeeeverywhere. “The personal is political” is not merely a rallying cry of a women’s movement from which Kelly has, in public, disassociated herself; it is also the osmotic reality of an America whose president was elevated to the position with the help of reality TV, and in which late-night hosts are shaping healthcare policy for millions of Americans, and in which politics, for many, have daily consequences of life and death. And in which, indeed, Megyn Kelly, journalist—propelled to widespread fame through infotainment’s powerful trajectories—recently found herself in the position to sign an $18 million-a-year contract with NBC.
To mock “politics,” whether as a monolith or as an existential inconvenience, is an easy play and a winning ploy; Kelly is correct, of course, that many Americans, particularly at this hyper-partisan moment, find “politics” both tiresome and anxiety-provoking. But the apolitical stance, particularly from a media figure like Kelly, is as disingenuous in the context of morning television as it is anywhere else—a philosophical extension of the aw-shucks wonder Kelly effected on Monday morning, while Savannah Guthrie gave her a tour of the winding innards of 30 Rock. (Kelly has been an employee of NBC for much of 2017.) As Megyn Kelly knows—as she knows perhaps better than most—politics infuse even, and especially, the things that claim to be apolitical. Even in the morning. Even in a faux-windowed studio in the middle of New York City. The weather is political. The water is political. Football is political. Alex Jones is political. The New Black Panther Party is political. Tamron Hall is political. Swimming pools are political. Santa Claus is political. The phrase “we all feel it” is political.
And yet: “If my producers and I do our jobs,” Kelly said on Monday, cheerily, “you will find out what you need to know today, to get yourself through the day—to have a laugh with us, a smile, sometimes a tear. And maybe a little hope to start your day.”
She paused. “Some fun! That’s what you want to be doing, some fun.”
In the name of apolitical fun (and in the name, of course, of Comcastian vertical integration), Kelly’s first full segment found the host interviewing the cast of Will & Grace—a show that has remained relevant and beloved in large part because of, yes, its politics. Crowded onto a small leather couch meant to mimic the one in Will’s apartment, Megan Mullally (Karen), Sean Hayes (Jack), Debra Messing (Grace), and Eric McCormack (Will) talked about the show’s revival as they jockeyed for space among the couch’s throw pillows. And in the course of the discussion, they mentioned President Trump multiple times—by name and by implication. “Any teaser on current events?” Kelly asked Mullally. “What do you mean? Everything’s going great,” Mullally replied, rolling her eyes dramatically. “The character of Karen, she’s best friends with Donnie and Melania,” Mullally continued, tugging at the neck of her blouse to indicate her discomfort.
Later, Max Mutchnick, Will & Grace’s creator, explained that the show’s revival came about when “I was in London with my husband, and we were talking about the election … ”
Later, reintroducing the show’s cast and creators after a break, Kelly summarized the previous segment’s discussion: “We talked a bit about this show’s impact, and culturally”—Kelly repeated the word for emphasis—“culturally, it had a huge impact.” And then she mentioned the famous interview in which Joe Biden credited Will & Grace with doing more than anything else to bring about the (extremely political) legality of same-sex marriage.
From there, wackiness ensued—bike rides, egg whites, congratulatory mimosas with the cast of the Today show (“Oh-em-gee!” Kelly exclaimed, as Lauer and company swarmed her onstage, bar cart in tow)—all of it building up to the final segment, the one Kelly had been teasing most excitedly throughout the hour: a serious-toned, news-magazine-style profile of Sister Donna Liette. The 77-year-old woman, Kelly said, lowering her voice dramatically, “faced with violence tearing apart her Chicago neighborhood … decided to do something about it.”
“She may look like a sweet little grandmother,” Kelly continued, donning the easy indignation of an anchor about to explain an outrage, “but most days she can be found driving alone through one of America’s toughest neighborhoods: Back of the Yards, Chicago’s South Side, where gun violence is a way of life.”
As Kelly spoke, a chyron displayed: “Chicago Nun Takes Back Her Streets.”
Chicago, and particularly the crime rates of that city, have been a particular touchpoint for the Trump presidency. “If Chicago doesn’t fix the horrible ‘carnage’ going on,” he tweeted in January, “... I will send in the Feds!” It was a sentiment, sent in the early days of his administration, that expanded on Trump’s inaugural address—a speech in which “American carnage” functioned as a leitmotif, and in which the president, in dire tones, spoke of “mothers and children trapped in poverty in our inner cities … and the crime and gangs and drugs that have stolen too many lives and robbed our country of so much unrealized potential.”
Which is to say that Kelly’s choice of interview subject—the “nun taking back her streets”—was deeply political. It celebrated the work of a single white woman, working to “take back her streets” (her streets). It whiffed of “the girl was no saint, either” and “he just is white.” The segment featured pans of the neighborhood set to mournful piano music. At one point, Kelly’s cameras captured a sign placed in a garden that Liette and a community of Chicago mothers had created together. It read, “Putting Neighbor Back in the Hood.”
Kelly’s interview with Liette began like this:
“How many murders do you hear about a week?” she asked.
“Probably five or six or seven a week, at least,” Liette replied.
“It’s like living in a war zone,” Kelly said. It was not a question.
“Almost all of our boys have been shot,” Liette replied.
The segment, in its contours a human-interest story of the kind that might be aired on 60 Minutes or, indeed, the Fox News Channel, was part of the “Settle for More” series that will ostensibly remain a staple of Megyn Kelly Today—the name being “a mantra,” Kelly told her audience on Monday, “that says, if you want change, you must seek it.” (Settle for More is also the title of Kelly’s 2016 autobiography. She mentioned the book multiple times during the show.) This particular iteration of “Settle for More” ended with a pleasantly morning-show twist: Liette and some of the mothers she works with in Chicago joined Kelly onstage, in the studio, surrounding the host in a semicircle. Kelly presented Liette with checks from Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage and from Ace Hardware, to further her work in the community. Everyone applauded. It was a nice thing: money, for people who need it. Money that might help life in “a war zone” seem a little less warlike.
It was also, of course, a deeply political thing—and, in that, a fitting conclusion to the premiere. In the past, when Megyn Kelly has been at her best as a journalist, she has been—a word so often associated with her—prosecutorial: She has, whether addressing Trump’s pattern of misogyny or Karl Rove’s electoral math or O’Reilly or Ailes or even Alex Jones, interrogated the powerful. She has refused to be cowed or charmed, or to fall prey to the smoke and mirrors of televised politics. At her worst, though, Kelly has engaged in a particularly insidious brand of political argument: the kind that refuses to admit itself as politics at all. The kind sees things from a narrow perspective, but claims to be omnivisual. The kind that lobs grenades into the culture war and then innocently throws up its empty hands. The kind that says, before it talks of Joe Biden and Donald Trump and taking back her streets, “I am kind of done with politics for now.”
For her morning-show debut, the fashion-conscious Kelly chose as her inaugural outfit a pair of slim-cut black pants—pants were something she rarely wore during her glass-desked tenure at Fox News, and did as a matter of soft rebellion—topped off with a blouse of pink silk. The shirt’s distinguishing element was the neckline feature known as the pussy bow, and the garment overall was a nearly direct replica of the one worn by Melania Trump just after her husband’s “grab ‘em by the pussy” scandal—and before, it would turn out, political protests would aim to reclaim both the word “pussy” and the color pink. You might be tempted to read into Kelly’s remarkable wardrobe choice—if her show, of course, weren’t apolitical.


This story contains spoilers for the first two episodes of Star Trek: Discovery.
For more than 50 years, Star Trek has obeyed a particular formula when introducing its new shows. The first episode is double-sized, a mini-movie designed to introduce a new vessel (be it Enterprise, Deep Space Nine, or Voyager) and its crew. Our hero is the commanding officer, a steady hand atop a pyramid of Starfleet command (Captains Kirk, Picard, Sisko, Janeway, and Archer). And if there’s conflict, it’s mostly external, as the Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry insisted that Starfleet officers don’t get in fights with each other, though that’s a rule that was made to be broken.
Star Trek: Discovery, which premiered on CBS Sunday night, is the first new Trek show in 12 years (the last, Enterprise, was canceled by UPN in 2005). It’s also the first to debut in the streaming era, which prioritizes serialized storytelling and values die-hard fans who will fork over subscription dollars. That’s why CBS is using Discovery as bait to draw people to its CBS All Access service, where future episodes of the show will air exclusively. And that’s also why Discovery’s action-packed opening episodes—which centered around a Starfleet mutiny and featured a very different kind of main character—felt so incongruous to Trek history. The show probably needed to make such a dramatic shift in order to return to the air, but it’s likely to distress some veteran fans, who have always been resistant to change.
CBS’s Star Trek Could Change the TV Broadcast Model
The star of Discovery is Sonequa Martin-Green, best known for playing Sasha Williams on The Walking Dead. She’s Lieutenant Commander Michael Burnham, the second-in-command on the USS Shenzhou and a loyal deputy to its captain, Philippa Georgiou (Michelle Yeoh). The show’s opening two hours (the first of which aired on CBS, with the second debuting immediately after on CBS All Access) see the Shenzhou stumbling into a Klingon trap designed to provoke warfare between the bellicose alien species and the peaceful Federation. Trek fans would quickly realize from the year provided (2256) that Discovery is set 10 years before the original series, a time when the Klingons were still regarded as mostly mysterious aggressors, stock villains for Captain Kirk to lock horns with from time to time.
It’s an age of greater conflict, which makes sense for the show Bryan Fuller and Alex Kurtzman have created. Discovery is action-packed, has its main narrative set around a Federation-Klingon war, and heavily borrows from the visual style of J.J. Abrams’s rebooted Trek films, replete with lens flares and metallic set dressings, far from the day-glo delights of the original show. The first episode ended with a big cliffhanger, as Klingon warships bore down on the Shenzhou. And viewers were only able to watch the epic conclusion if they signed up for CBS All Access (which is $5.99 per month with ads, or $9.99 per month without).
The tactic appears to have worked—the CBS broadcast, along with the show’s long-established fanbase, has driven All Access subscriptions to unspecified record highs. At a time when brand recognition is key and shows that might have been once dismissed as cult favorites (like Gilmore Girls or Arrested Development) are now highly sought-after, Star Trek is the best imaginable property to launch a streaming service with. But CBS’s ultimate calculation was an interesting one: It’s looking to attract hardcore fans to build up All Access, of course, but it wants Discovery to be conventionally thrilling enough to draw a wider audience, too.
That’s probably why Michael Burnham is the franchise’s first leading character who isn’t a commanding officer—because the pilot episode’s big story twist revolves around her attempt at mutiny. Faced with the Klingon threat, Burnham advises Georgiou to attack their ships preemptively, explaining that Klingon culture respects battle and considers it a form of diplomacy. She’s drawing on her peculiar heritage as a human raised by Vulcans, after her family was killed in a Klingon raid. But when Georgiou ignores her (saying that the Federation doesn’t fire first), Burnham subdues her with a Vulcan neck pinch and tries to launch the weapons herself.
It is the most implausible moment in the otherwise sterling opening episodes of Discovery. Burnham’s respect and love for Georgiou, whom she has served under for seven years, has already been well-established by that point, and her reasons for wanting to open fire on the Klingons are a little too vague. That she’d suddenly turn on her boss, violating a sacred Federation rule, is tough to believe, and Burnham’s move feels like a story decision designed more for shock value than anything else. The Federation and Klingon ships quickly engage in open warfare anyway, and Georgiou and Burnham soon reconcile and go on a recon mission on board a Klingon vessel (where Georgiou is killed in action).
That leads to another cliffhanger: Burnham is convicted of mutiny and stripped of her rank. According to the teaser for next week’s episode (available online only, as all future episodes will be), this will lead to her being placed as a prisoner on the USS Discovery, the show’s titular ship, captained by Gabriel Lorca (Jason Isaacs) and equipped for war with the Klingons. The ongoing storyline isn’t completely unexpected—every other Trek series had them too. But the earlier shows mostly relied on an episodic structure that sold self-contained tales from week to week and emphasized the utopian status quo of the Federation.
It’s hard to know if a series like that—particularly Star Trek: The Next Generation, which remains the gold standard for the franchise—could ever exist on television again. The Next Generation followed a crew whose members were deeply in sync, rarely got in arguments that lasted more than a minute, and all excelled at their jobs. It was, above all, a show about exploration, where the threats were often philosophical rather than physical, and where the rule upon encountering most new alien races was never to interfere with their cultures.
Discovery, like almost every new Trek show, will have growing pains, and may initially struggle to win over the franchise’s die-hard fans as it courts new ones. Its plotting exists on a knife-edge of tension, and characters now openly quarrel with each other. But after 50 years, it was long past time for the show to evolve, and for all CBS’s streaming gimmickry, it’s exciting to have the franchise back and finding new ways to tell stories. As the medium of television evolves, it’s comforting to know that Star Trek is there to evolve right along with it.


On Friday, as Puerto Rico contended with the aftermath of a hurricane that had left much of the island without power, and North Korea threatened to detonate a hydrogen bomb in the Pacific Ocean, the internet-gossip complex grappled instead with the momentous news that an unmarried 20-year-old reality star was pregnant. Kylie Jenner, TMZ reported, the youngest scion of the Kardashian family, had been telling friends that she and her boyfriend, the rapper Travis Scott, were going to have a baby. Unidentified family friends promptly confirmed the news to People. And some fans began to wonder—had Kylie’s mother, Kris Jenner, leaked the news herself to boost the ratings for E!’s Sunday night 10-year-anniversary special of Keeping Up With the Kardashians?
Such an act might seem unconscionably cynical, even for the unrivaled Mama Rose of reality television. But this was the stuff the Kardashian empire was built on: family drama transfigured into family opportunity. When Kris Jenner first began shopping the sizzle reel for her family’s prospective reality show in 2007, it was only a few months after her daughter, Kim Kardashian, had gained notoriety after the release of a sex tape featuring Kardashian and the singer Ray J. “There was so much media coverage swirling around Kim then, both positive and negative, that we knew we had to act fast and take advantage of the moment,” Jenner writes in her memoir. Lemons, meet Minute Maid.
The Real Housewives of Jane Austen
Kim’s sex tape wasn’t mentioned in the 10-year-anniversary special that aired on Sunday night, hosted by the inscrutably bland and improbably ageless Ryan Seacrest. But E!, for the first time, aired the original Keeping Up With the Kardashians sales tape, a minute of footage that turned a wealthy Calabasas family into a global media brand. “Hey, I’m Kim Kardashian, and I get to live every girl’s dream,” Kim, a celebrity stylist at the time, intoned over footage of her posing for photographers, signing autographs, and rifling through stacks of clothing. Seconds later, she was introducing her family. “I’m going to throw raw chicken up your cooch,” her sister Kourtney yelled in grainy definition, apropos of nothing. The reel went on to explain how Kim’s dad was Robert Kardashian, O.J. Simpson’s best friend, and how 16 years ago, Kris had divorced Robert and married the retired Olympian Bruce—now Caitlyn—Jenner. Then Kim wrapped up. Whatever the future held, she explained, “we’ll fight, scratch, and bitch our way through all the drama, together as one big happy family.”
Both the sizzle reel and the anniversary special were presumably meant to be triumphant: the before-and-after celebrations of a family so influential that a simple cocaine rumor involving Kim garnered more social-media engagement than Donald Trump Jr.’s screenshotted Russia emails. And yet, as the 90-minute show went on, it felt increasingly sad, no matter how gamely Kris and her daughters joked about most of them not going to college, or a younger Kim thinking grapefruit was called “greatfruit.” The most mournful presence was Scott Disick, Kourtney’s ex-boyfriend and the father of her three children, seen frowning backstage as Kourtney blithely told a million or so viewers that their relationship was “definitely psychotic.” Over the course of the evening, Disick gnawed anxiously on his hand, sank back into his chair with his feet on the set’s coffee table, and grimaced repeatedly. “I’m dying over here,” he said at one point, a statement that everyone politely ignored.
Then there was Rob Kardashian, notable primarily by his absence, and by the fact that the only footage screened of him all night was from seven or eight years ago, before his weight gain and his self-imposed reclusion. “Our buddy Rob isn’t here,” Seacrest noted briefly, and somewhat patronizingly. “How’s Rob doing, Kris?” Kris assured the world that Rob was doing well, that he’s working on a new clothing line, and she sees him every day. “We’re literally on a family group chat,” Kendall Jenner added, confessing that she frequently mutes it because the messages are too much. At which point Rob was so swiftly forgotten that it became newly apparent why he had to have a baby with his half-sister’s boyfriend’s ex-fiancée to get some of his mother’s attention (the drama all captured, naturally, in a one-season E! docusoap produced by Seacrest and Kris Jenner).
But the saddest figure of all was Kylie, even without the context of her pregnancy. Flashback footage from the show revealed Kylie at age 9, exuberantly mimicking her sister Kim in an improvised monologue and grinning cheekily through her freckles. It also showed her, at the same age, jumping onto her mother’s stripper pole, mocking up a routine that was alarmingly accomplished. “I feel like I can’t even remember a time before Keeping Up,” the present-day Kylie explained, a dead-eyed, Juvederm-plumped shadow of her former self. “Where does this go?” Seacrest asked her. “What do you wanna do when you’re able to drink?” The audience laughed. Kylie chuckled, mirthlessly. “My makeup is my passion, so this show and this opportunity has been really awesome,” she said. Then archival footage from the show chronicled her evolution from spirited tween to reluctant superstar. “I missed out on being normal,” a spotty, make-up free Kylie told Kourtney in one scene. “Being able to feel like I can like get out of the car and nobody’s staring at me.”
All this unfiltered “honesty” is as much a part of the Kardashian brand as is spandex. The cameras, over the last 10 years, have chronicled Kim’s marriage, Kim’s divorce, Kim’s next marriage, the birth of Kourtney’s three children (in graphic detail), Khloe’s marriage to then-NBA player Lamar Odom, the latter’s problems with addiction and almost-fatal overdose in a brothel in Nevada, Kris’s marital woes with her husband, and Caitlyn’s decision to transition. Keeping Up With the Kardashians has captured a family being so profoundly battered and buffeted by fame and notoriety that you have to wonder: Was it worth it? If Kris were offered the same Faustian bargain again, would she accept, knowing everything the next 10 years would bring?
As the special wrapped up, producers wheeled out an elaborately decorated cake and trays of champagne. “You guys, this is our favorite cake from Hansen’s,” an indeterminate voice exclaimed, because no product can be left unplaced. Then, as Lorde’s “Supercut” played, a montage of old footage from the past 10 years played out: fights, bikini waxes, fillers gone wrong, Kim’s butt being X-rayed, a tween Kylie doing an impression of “Girls Gone Wild,” her dad’s horrified reaction. But the final few scenes were of tears: Kim’s, Rob’s, Scott’s, Khloe’s, Kim’s again, and finally Kris’s, as she told her daughters her husband had left her. In closing, the camera showed the Kardashian-Jenners on vacation years ago, as a wave drenched and destabilized them all on their luxury yacht—as apt a metaphor as the producers could find for the impact on a family of a decade of television.


This story contains spoilers through the entirety of mother!
The second act of mother!, Darren Aronofosky’s divisive new film, escalates quickly. In one scene, the character played by Jennifer Lawrence—identified only as “Mother”—is embodying domestic goddesshood, preparing a nursery for her unborn child and serving Pinterest-worthy small plates to her narcissist poet of a husband, simply called “Him” (Javier Bardem). Minutes later, she’s hyperventilating while looters tear her kitchen apart, a rave kicks off in her living room, a strange religious cult forms on the stairwell, refugees get trapped behind wire fences in her entryway, she’s pepper-sprayed in the face by riot police, explosions rattle the house, Kristen Wiig assassinates a group of hostages, and a cop who tries to help Mother has his head blown off by a rifle.
This cinematic segue from a Restoration Hardware catalog into a war zone in a matter of minutes is one of the elements of the film that’s perplexed audiences. The fact that (monumental spoiler ahead) Mother then gives birth to a baby which is killed and eaten in front of her by the aforementioned sinister cult, also seems to have offended some people. It’s just not what you’d necessarily expect from a major film released by Paramount Pictures starring Lawrence, America’s indubitable sweetheart. But there is a context within which mother! makes perfect sense, and a discipline to which it’s remarkably faithful: Antonin Artaud’s Theater of Cruelty.
What Is the Meaning of Mother!?
Artaud, a French writer and dramatist, died in 1948. During his life, which was plagued by mental illness and drug addiction, he achieved relatively little artistic success: His one surviving theatrical play, Jet de Sang (Jet of Blood) wasn’t staged until decades after his death, and a radio play he wrote and recorded called Pour en Finir avec le Jugement de dieu was shelved before it was broadcast because it largely consisted of unintelligible references to God and bodily functions, interspersed with random bursts of sound. But his manifesto for a “theater of cruelty” has endured, influencing some of the most innovative directors of the 20th century, from Peter Brook to Lars von Trier. Mother!, with its immersive, all-encompassing chaos, its dream-like symbolism, and its determination to shock its audience out of complacency, is an experiment in Artaudian cinema—a narrative of creation and destruction that confronts viewers with the absurd violence of reality.
“Without an element of cruelty at the root of every spectacle, the theater is not possible,” Artaud wrote in his 1938 book The Theatre and Its Double. “In our present state of degeneration it is through the skin that metaphysics must be made to re-enter our minds.” Published the year before the start of World War II, The Theatre and Its Double was responding to a world that Artaud saw as ravaged by “disorder, famine, blood, war, and epidemics,” and to a polite kind of theater that was unable to offer a true portrait of humanity. “There are too many signs that everything that used to sustain our lives no longer does so, that we are all mad, desperate, and sick,” he wrote. “And I call for us to react.”
This sense of fury and provocation underpins mother!, which Aronofsky has described as a movie he wanted to “howl at the moon.” Lawrence’s character is Gaia, mother nature; the house she lives in with Him is the Earth. It’s a quiet, peaceful (blandly decorated) paradise until it’s plagued by humans, in the form of Ed Harris and Michelle Pfeiffer, who fight, screw, spill, get sloppy drunk, make messes in the kitchen, and leave bloody tissues everywhere. Their sons arrive, prompting a vicious murder and a raging wake in which the metaphor becomes clear: Humans are ruining Mother’s world. Mother! is a climate-change parable that uses horrific imagery, discomfiting sounds, and subconscious irritants to call attention to what Aronofsky sees as a profound crisis for humanity, one that we need to be jarred into noticing.
The main difference between mother! and most of Artaud’s work is that it isn’t surreal—the story has a clear and recognizable plot about an artist who craves recognition and his much-younger wife who feeds his ego. And yet it’s strangely similar to Jet de Sang, which also opens with a happy, simple world that the play proceeds to destroy. In the first scene, a young man and a young woman profess their love for each other. Then a hurricane ravages the stage, stars collide, and a storm of severed limbs, scorpions, frogs, beetles, and architectural elements rains upon the stage (Artaud resisted offering insight into how directors might stage this scene). The Young Man and Woman are chased away by degenerate sinners: a prostitute, a knight, a wet nurse, a priest, and God himself.
Jet de Sang was Artaud’s attempt to create “theater which events do not exceed, whose resonance is deep within us, dominating the instability of the times.” He wrote of wanting to emulate Hieronymus Bosch and Matthias Grünewald in representing the monstrous nature of human sin as spectacle. The riotous second act of mother!, a kind of 21st-century Dante’s Inferno, replicates this imagery, absorbing audiences in Mother’s point of view as she witnesses flashes of grotesque faces and frenzied rituals. The overall effect is, as Artaud wrote, “a theater in which violent physical images crush and hypnotize the sensibility of the spectator seized by the theater as by a whirlwind of higher forces.”
Aronofsky specifically uses sound to add to the chaos, throwing in discordant, painful high-frequency notes to create tension, and layering fragments of obscene insults to illustrate rising disorder: After Mother rejects the advances of a male stranger at the end of the first half of the film, he spits, “You’re an arrogant cunt.” The film’s dialogue is almost tangential; at its best, it’s stilted and strange. (Bardem’s character, recalling how his house burnt down, oddly describes the trauma of losing everything, even “your dirty toothbrush.”) This is Artaudian, too: He considered language to be insufficient in communicating the pain of existence. He also complained that “no one ... knows how to scream anymore,” an assertion that finds fresh meaning with the news that Lawrence reportedly ruptured her diaphragm while filming some of her more intense vocal scenes.
Another, odd parallel is that Artaud, in the opening chapter of his book, describes the ravaging effects of a plague on a population, specifically “organs that grow heavy and turn to carbon.” This is the exact imagery Aronofsky uses to convey the increasing decay of Mother’s home—a beating heart she can sense through the walls, and that she observes blackening until it dies.
But the most provocative element of mother! occurs toward the very end, when a baby is murdered and subsequently eaten by a frenzied mob. While Artaud never included the death of a baby in any of his existing work, it’s a recurring trope in modern theater. In 1965, the producers of Edward Bond’s Saved were prosecuted after his play included a scene of a baby being tortured and stoned to death by a group of bored, disaffected teenagers. Bond, like Artaud, was trying to illustrate that violence is inherent in human nature, and that the worst atrocities of the 20th century—the Holocaust, Hiroshima—came from instincts that have never fully been neutered. In 1998, the playwright Sarah Kane tackled similar themes in her play Blasted, in which war erupts in a Leeds hotel room, and one of the characters—after being blinded and raped—eats a dead baby onstage.
As a symbol, a baby represents the most potent form of vulnerable human goodness, and so when it’s destroyed in art, it’s to truly emphasize a fundamental kind of evil. That doesn’t mean people won’t find it horrific or manipulative—and that’s usually the point. Mother! is an attempt both to portray the darkness that exists within humankind, and to present it to audiences in so shocking and disturbing a fashion that they can’t ignore or reason away what they’ve seen. “Theater of cruelty” refers not just to the cruelty of life, but to cruelty inflicted on audience members to stir them out of their everyday torpor. As Artaud wrote, “the images and movements employed will not be there solely for the external pleasure of eye or ear, but for that more secret and profitable one of the spirit.”
It’s a noble purpose, maybe, but not one that’s commercially viable, even now. “In modern culture, powerful machinery has been set up whereby dissident work, after gaining an initial semi-official status as ‘avant-garde,’ is gradually absorbed and rendered acceptable,” Susan Sontag once wrote. “But Artaud’s practical activities in the theater barely qualified for this kind of cooptation.” Artists, particularly filmmakers, continue to weave his theories into their own work, but the end result is often failure. Mother!, which has been given the rare and dubious honor of an F grade by CinemaScore, is not a commercial success. But the sheer volume of articles that attempt to analyze and unpack it (including this one) proves that people are thinking about it. Which is exactly what Artaud—and presumably Aronofsky—wanted.


Joan Didion Is Ready for Her Close-Up
Dana Spiotta | Vogue
“What struck me, as a young person, was how unapologetic [Didion] always appeared, how self-possessed. She, like Susan Sontag—another writer who didn’t seem to mind getting her photo taken—remade for me what was possible for women. They were intellectuals who also seemed to understand what their physical selves signified for the culture. We gazed at them, and they gazed back.”
The Original Shock of Rolling Stone
Amanda Petrusich | The New Yorker
“That pop music dominates the cultural conversation is evident and presumed. Yet, in the 1960s, rock records didn’t command column inches in serious publications. Back then, [Jann] Wenner’s insistence on the music’s significance and import—its relevance to the Zeitgeist, its abundance—was a lunatic gesture.”
Beware the Open-Plan Kitchen
Caitlin Flanagan | Vulture
“Bristol and Aubrey Marunde are the stars of Flip or Flop Vegas, and they have brought the HGTV formula—an endless loop of television in which the dreams of women are made manifest by the swinging sledgehammers of men—to the quivering edge of reductio ad absurdum. They love one another; they never quarrel; they worship together at the Church of Home Depot in the Parish of Lowe’s.”
Colin Kaepernick and Blade Runner: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
Who’s Laughing Now?
Tom Bissell | Harper’s
“At the end of the 2004 show [of SNL], after Trump wishes everyone a good night and the credits roll, he can be seen embracing Seth Meyers, who, 13 years on, would emerge as one of his chief comedy antagonists. … And there’s Trump shaking hands with, of all people, Questlove from the Roots. And then there came a great earthquake, and the full moon became like blood, and the stars of the sky fell to the earth.”
Harry Dean Stanton: Fully Inhabiting Scenes, Not Stealing Them
Manohla Dargis | The New York Times
“His role as Travis [in Paris, Texas], who’s on a redemptive journey, certainly elevated Mr. Stanton’s profile and helped make him an emblem of cool. … Yet even as Paris, Texas brought Mr. Stanton a measure of fame, he remained a quintessential character actor, a performer who ranged wide and far (Laverne & Shirley!), imparting something real and true called Harry Dean Stanton.”
Jeff Bridges Will Be ‘the Dude,’ Now and Forever
Caity Weaver | GQ
“Jeff Bridges isn't turned off by this, as some already famous actors might be—by the fanatical, undying popularity of a weird thing he did once, back in 1998, that no one has ever forgotten, that people quote at him ad nauseam. He’s too imperturbable, too Dude for that. Bridges is famously cool with the weighty Lebowski legacy. It’s obvious why within moments of meeting him.”
From Ghost Town to Havana: Two Teams, Two Countries, One Game
Rick Paulas | Longreads
“The resulting documentary about the weeklong trip tells the stories of two coaches and two baseball teams, but more than that, it exposes ways in which the American model of youth development has fallen short compared to Cuba. For starters, having the security, both economic and social, … that allows the time to coach, as opposed to the U.S. model of relying on the good hearts of volunteers, which is to say, those with enough money to have the free time to do so.”
The Many Arms of Takashi Murakami’s Career
Mengna Du | Hyperallergic
“Murakami always strives to complicate conventional dichotomies created by institutions—between the low and the high, the marginalized and the mainstream, the East and the West—but the minute he succeeds, he fails. From his earliest attempt to subvert Nihonga through Nihonga itself, to his embracing of the formerly marginal otaku subculture, he seems never to be able to escape the cycle of resistance, cooptation, retreat, and repeat.”


Don’t Miss
How This Year’s Oscars Contenders Are Tackling Trump—David Sims notes that some of the biggest hits, and one notable flop, at the Toronto International Film Festival played as blunt allegories for the current political moment.
The Business of Creativity
How My First Novel Became a Movie—Caren Lissner explains how it took 14 years of false starts, navigating Hollywood, and a modest payout for her book Carrie Pilby to be adapted into a Netflix film.
Saving One of Western Art’s Most Iconic Paintings—Kimberly Chrisman-Campbell goes inside the massive, two-year museum effort to conserve The Blue Boy, Thomas Gainsborough’s famed 18th-century portrait.
TV
Women Won Big at the 2017 Emmys—David Sims recaps the award show, where top honors went to Big Little Lies, Veep, and The Handmaid’s Tale.
Sean Spicer and the Self-Contradicting Politics of the Emmys—Spencer Kornhaber thinks the cameo by the former press secretary put a confusing spin on the many anti-Trump jokes of the night.
Veep’s Showrunner on Clinton, Trump, and Insulting Jonah—Megan Garber talks to David Mandel about writing political satire for a fractious world ahead of his Emmy acceptance.
How the Emmy Awards Put Hulu on the Map—David Sims notes that The Handmaid’s Tale became the first streaming-TV show to win Best Drama Series, an honor that surprisingly didn’t go to Netflix.
The State: A Provocative New Drama Considers ISIS—Sophie Gilbert reviews the four-part miniseries by Wolf Hall’s Peter Kosminsky that explores life inside the terrorist group for the Britons who join up.
The Anger of Jimmy Kimmel—Megan Garber analyzes the late-night host’s Tuesday monologue on the politics of American health care, in which he offered indignation rather than tears.
The Good Place Is Still TV Heaven—Sophie Gilbert says NBC’s quirky hit returns with more moral philosophy, food puns, and otherworldly humor.
Transparent Tackles Israel-Palestine, and Other Boundary Issues—Spencer Kornhaber writes that the dramedy’s unusually joyful fourth season says that division is agony and reconciliation is a process.
Film
What Is the Meaning of mother!?—David Sims delves into the plot, allegories, and shocking ending of one of the most surprising Hollywood releases of the year.
Kingsman: The Golden Circle Is More Farce Than Satire—Christopher Orr believes that while the sequel shares some of its predecessor’s strengths, this installment of the comic-action franchise is broader and less original.
Battle of the Sexes Is a Breezy Crowd-Pleaser—David Sims offers his opinion on the film about a famed 1973 tennis match with surprising resonance for today.
Lady Gaga’s Illness Is Not a Metaphor—Spencer Kornhaber dives into the new film that details the reason the star postponed her recent tour and tests cultural attitudes about gender, pain, and pop.
Stronger Is a Profound, Oscar-Worthy Gem—David Sims watches the surprisingly excellent inspirational drama, in which Jake Gyllenhaal plays Jeff Bauman, who lost his legs in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing.
Books
There and Back Again—Vann R. Newkirk II ponders what J.R.R. Tolkien’s classic The Hobbit still has to offer, 80 years after its publication.


Transparent is the rare TV show held up as a symbol of the Obama era to return in 2017 without piling on references to Donald Trump. But the fourth season of the soulful Amazon dramedy about a Los Angeles family whose onetime patriarch transitions genders at age 68 could, if you wanted, be read as one long subtweet of wall builders. It’s a 10-episode riff on the concept of borders, with a riskier and more explicit political theme than most other shows would dare.
That hot-button theme? Drumroll ... the Israel-Palestine conflict. Yes, really. Maura Pfefferman, having returned to academia, is invited to lecture at an Israeli conference on gender and Judaism. One of her adult children tags along—followed, after a shocking Holy Land revelation, by the rest of the Pfeffermans. Ali, the youngest and wokest of Maura’s three kids, connects with an activist named Lyfe who shows her around Ramallah. Her growing distress about the plight of Palestinians complicates what would otherwise be an intergenerational Birthright trip.
The Brilliant Challenge of Transparent
The borders motif plays out in smaller ways, too. The family’s gorgeous home in the Pacific Palisades is being Airbnb’d to an odd German family who’s hostile to any Pfeffermans living in the basement unit. The lonely but overbearing Shelly moves in with Josh, collapsing the mother-son buffer zone. Sarah and Len consider letting another lover into their de facto marriage. Alia Shawkat’s groovy preschool teacher, a new addition, observes that deception often takes the place of boundaries in relationships: “You compartmentalize. ... It’s human.” Jason Mantzoukas, playing a reformed pothead, says, “Boundaries are how people tell other people what they need.” In every case, you see the value of borders maintained conscientiously—but often, peace comes from opening up.
Three years after its initial wave of acclaim, Transparent is as beautiful television as ever, making great use of the hard-won familiarity between its audience and its characters. Previous seasons reveled in the self-involved Pfeffermans torturing themselves, but the show now eases off the pain and lets its characters just live, somewhat contentedly, for a bit. Deep thinking about sex as a source of both trauma and healing obviously informed the scripts, too. An early scene, for example, has Ali being interviewed by college administrators looking into harassment allegations against her former lover and boss. “Nothing was done to me here, do you understand?” she says. A Pfefferman is, for once, not triggered.
Well—scratch that. The investigation, as well as a riotously mean poem by its target published in The New Yorker, does kick Ali into a bit of spiral. But her angst isn’t overdone, communicated in grace notes during the small-scale and emotionally generous first few episodes. Amid the grating yet comforting din of a family dinner in the premiere, Ali, Sarah, and Josh escape to the rooftop to get high but instead just banter in the cruel-but-loving way that only brothers and sisters can. A BuzzFeed quiz they take sends the trio to a sex-addiction group therapy session—and like so much of Transparent, the expedition is outwardly comedic but inwardly serious, spiritual.
The conceit of the Israel trip keeps the Pfeffermans mostly together for the season, which means that rather than wrecking strangers’ lives they’re instead negotiating with one another. It also means this exquisite cast gets to work as a full ensemble. The creator Jill Soloway’s team has perfected the art of crosstalk, somehow wringing huge laughs from how these characters, like all of us, are mostly only capable of mediocre jokes. Touring Jerusalem, the family stops at the handprint of Jesus on the Via Dolorosa, and the fact that they’ve only ever lived in a Jewish American bubble has never been funnier. “I don’t get it, if Jesus was the Son of God, why did he just grow up to be a carpenter?” Len asks. Sarah shoots back, with endearing lameness, “Harrison Ford was a carpenter.”
The characters’ shaggy-dog awkwardness, it must be said, is sometimes shared by the show itself to its detriment. Maura’s friend Davina, a trans AIDS patient in a less-than-happy relationship, gets her biography told in flashback—but it, unfortunately, comes off as shoehorned-in and rather rote. The long-suffering Shelly unveils a deep secret in what should have been one of the season’s emotional climaxes, but a lack of set-up makes it land like a non-sequitur. And Ali’s journey through the West Bank—while mostly fascinating and stereotype-busting—has a tinge of explainer journalism. But even such missteps are admirable signs of the show insisting on the full humanity of marginalized people, regardless of which side of any given border they’re on.
The show wisely doesn’t make too much of the metaphors inherent in its Israel-Palestine plotline, but they’re obvious. Viewers are explicitly reminded that Israel represented a fresh start for persecuted Jews, but also that such relief meant others’ torment. Previous seasons have stressed how liberation—for Maura from masculinity, but also for others from various situations they felt oppressed by—can be a selfish act, inflicting pain on bystanders. There’s also the notion that Israel is a land divided much as a person’s identity can be bifurcated, which the somewhat hallucinatory season emphasizes by giving each of the Pfeffermans their own imaginary friend. Reconciliation can be an agonizing process, and Transparent never suggests easy answers. But its compassion for all who struggle feels, now more than ever, like progress.


Jeff Bauman’s life story is a devastating and inspiring tale of loss and triumph over adversity: His legs were amputated above the knee after he was wounded in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing, but with the aid of prosthetics, he learned to walk again. The fear I had going into Stronger, the film about Bauman’s recovery starring Jake Gyllenhaal, was that it would cram this genuinely wrenching material into the Hollywood “based on a true story” formula, resulting in a three-act movie of tragedy, love, and stirring achievement that exists primarily as a showcase for an Oscar campaign.
But Stronger, which is directed by David Gordon Green (a former indie darling with one of the most eclectic resumes in the film industry), distinguishes itself with its attention to detail and its focus not on the physical feat of Bauman’s rehabilitation, but on his interior battle with post-traumatic stress. The performances, particularly from Gyllenhaal and Tatiana Maslany (as Bauman’s girlfriend, Erin Hurley), are certainly Oscar-worthy, and the story arc largely follows the inspirational parabola of Hollywood screenwriting. But the movie shouldn’t be dismissed as just another real-life drama to catch on cable TV someday; Stronger is a profound, sensitively made gem.
Jeff Bauman, Boston Marathon's 'Man in the Chair,' Slowly Learning to Walk Again
When we meet Bauman, he’s a lovable, hard-drinking Bostonian working at the deli counter at Costco and trying (vainly) to win back Hurley’s heart after a recent breakup. After hearing that she’s running in the Boston Marathon, Bauman plants himself near the finish line to cheer her on and is wounded in the subsequent terrorist attack. Green keeps the horror of the incident at arm’s length at first (we see the explosion, in the distance, from Hurley’s perspective), though he fills in details later as Bauman begins to remember more about that terrible day.
Crucially, Green and the Stronger screenwriter John Pollono emphasize Bauman’s perspective, and are committed to closing the distance between his distressing situation and the audience. One beautifully shot scene set not long after the bombing illustrates Green’s approach: The director follows the first changing of Bauman’s leg dressings, where the doctors and nurses comfortingly advise him that some amputees choose to watch the procedure and others do not, and that there’s no wrong decision.
Green trains the camera behind Bauman’s head, keeping everything else out of focus as the nurses guide him through the expected pain and shock of the procedure. Hurley, meanwhile, comes in and out of the frame, first unsure of how to offer support, then withdrawing, then slowly returning to Bauman’s side. The moment is perfectly choreographed while feeling entirely natural; it involves routine medical details the viewer might not think to consider, all the while invoking the fraught dynamics of Bauman and Hurley’s relationship and how they’ve changed after the attack. I later learned Green had hired Bauman’s real-life doctors and nurses for the scene to lend it authenticity—and it shows.
That verisimilitude persists throughout the film, even after Bauman leaves the hospital and starts the slow business of returning to a somewhat normal existence. He lives with his mother (a lively Miranda Richardson) in a cramped walkup apartment, and shares her penchant for drinking. He has to contend with his celebrity as he quickly becomes a living symbol of the “Boston Strong” spirit and is regularly accosted by strangers about his bravery. “Am I a hero for standing there and getting my legs blown off?” he asks one admirer. Gyllenhaal makes sure even these bleak statements have a tinge of dark humor, as Bauman tries to keep up appearances.
Most important of all is Bauman’s relationship with Hurley, and Stronger’s exploration of how their bond is initially motivated by her deep guilt over his presence at the marathon but eventually becomes something more tender. Green isn’t afraid to acknowledge the difficulties of a romantic relationship in which one partner serves as a caregiver. He’s also wise to avoid the common pitfalls of similar movies, where the supportive wife or partner doesn’t get much of a chance to be a real character. Maslany’s work in Stronger is just as heartfelt and textured as Gyllenhaal’s, and she’s given space to flesh out Hurley’s own trauma, and flaws, after the bombing.
The film does sag a little in its downbeat middle act, as Bauman sinks deeper into denial about his PTSD and some inevitable confrontations ensue. But Green wants this, in the end, to be a movie about overcoming incredible odds. Stronger is such a raw, exposed nerve of a film that it can be uncomfortable to take in, even in lighter scenes where Bauman is drinking with his friends and family. And yet there’s a genuineness to Green’s vision, a drive to avoid the narrative shortcuts that movies like this usually lean on. Coupled with two fantastic leading performances, that makes for a true-story drama that actually lives up to the remarkable reality it’s trying to portray.


For nearly 100 years, he’s been the star attraction in the palatial portrait gallery of The Huntington Library, Art Collections, and Botanical Gardens, a turn-of-the-century estate in tony San Marino, California. Today, he lies on a table in a small, chilled room above some administrative offices, surrounded by surgical tools, looking more than ever like a vulnerable boy on the cusp of adolescence, playing dress-up in a cavalier’s clothes.
He is Thomas Gainsborough’s The Blue Boy, the famed 1770 portrait of a young child in a blue satin doublet, cape, and breeches, holding a beplumed wide-brimmed hat—a kind of English Civil War cosplay popular for masquerade balls in the 18th century. Watching over him is Christina O’Connell, the museum’s unflappable senior paintings conservator. Charged with cleaning, preserving, and repairing the world-renowned art collection, O’Connell has just embarked on a groundbreaking two-year conservation effort, dubbed Project Blue Boy.
This isn’t O’Connell’s first peek at the raw, worn edges of The Blue Boy’s canvas. When she arrived at The Huntington four years ago, her big inaugural project was transferring The Blue Boy from his ornate, early 20th–century frame to a more historically appropriate 18th-century frame. Now, she has removed that frame to get a much closer look at the painting itself. O’Connell is fortunate in that she has plenty of material for comparison: The Huntington owns no fewer than 13 Gainsborough paintings, including one with flaking paint awaiting O’Connell’s attention on a nearby table.
It’s going to have to wait a while. O’Connell is currently in the midst of an intense three-month scientific analysis period. The Blue Boy will be reframed and returned to the portrait gallery on November 1. It will remain there for 10 months while O’Connell processes reams of data and formulates her treatment plan. Then the painting will come down for another several months of treatment. Part of this work will be done in the lab, but as much as possible will be completed in a cordoned-off area of the portrait gallery, in full view of the visiting public.
Although The Huntington has long had a state-of-the-art conservation lab and a team of paper conservators to care for the institution’s collection of 420,000 rare books and seven million manuscripts, this is the first time The Blue Boy has had a permanent caretaker, rather than relying on freelancers for quick fixes. “Past treatments have been short-term solutions, so a more comprehensive treatment is overdue,” O’Connell says. Another impetus for his makeover is the 100th anniversary of the institution’s charter, approaching in 2019. O’Connell aims to wrap up Project Blue Boy in time for the celebrations.
O’Connell isn’t daunted by the prospect of meddling with a work of art so famous that it’s been likened to an American Mona Lisa. “I’ve worked on paintings in worse condition that this,” she says. “I’ve worked on paintings that arrived in pieces.” And it won’t be her first time working in public, either. She was part of a team that painstakingly conserved a Sebastiano Mainardi altarpiece in front of visitors to the Indianapolis Museum of Art. She plans to hold “Ask the Conservator” Q&A sessions in the gallery, but she downplays the spectator appeal of her job. “I imagine it will be very boring for them as I’m taking my tiny, tiny brush and adding material to microscopic areas of peeling and cracking,” she says with a laugh.
With a master of science degree in art conservation from the University of Delaware, O’Connell is trained in chemistry as well as studio art and art history. In addition to a rigorous educational background, paintings conservators need what she calls “hand skills”: manual dexterity, steadiness, and artistic ability “to intricately reintegrate any damages so that the original brushwork of the artist can be seen and understood.” The Blue Boy’s issues that need fixing are “both structural and visual,” O’Connell says. The original canvas was lined a century or so ago, and the lining is beginning to separate. Paint is lifting and flaking in some areas, though it’s being held down by multiple layers of old varnish; as O’Connell removes yellowing topcoats and trapped dirt, she’ll deal with the deterioration beneath. The painting’s wooden stretcher is visible where the canvas has worn away at the edges; O’Connell hopes to confirm that it is the original, 18th-century support.  
O’Connell’s overarching goal is to keep the beloved painting on display as much as possible. “He has not been off view for more than a couple of days since The Huntington opened to the public in 1928,” says Melinda McCurdy, the museum’s associate curator of British art. The institution has made a major effort to publicize Project Blue Boy; the 207-acre campus is dotted with signs alerting visitors to the painting’s unprecedented—if temporary—absence. The project will also be chronicled on The Huntington’s blog and social-media feeds. As well as keeping The Blue Boy visible, the publicity will “educate the public about conservation,” McCurdy says. “They imagine what it is, but they have no idea what conservation actually entails.”
For one thing, it involves a shocking amount of paperwork. “Documentation is a really big part of what conservators do,” says O’Connell, patting a thick stack of file folders holding a century’s worth of Blue Boy scholarship. “Right now, I’m studying, observing, and documenting. In a nutshell, I’m understanding the materials and techniques of Gainsborough and how they have aged over time, and also the previous conservation efforts and how those have aged over time.” Both in the files and on the canvas, she’s looking for anything that’s been added to—or taken away from—the painting since it left Gainsborough’s studio.
Forensic science is also a big part of O’Connell’s job. UV light will indicate how evenly and heavily layers of varnish have been applied over time, and infrared light will reveal Gainsborough’s preparatory layers. X-ray fluorescence will help O’Connell understand which pigments the artist used. Paint samples taken in 2009—“smaller than a period on a printed page”—will be reanalyzed using updated techniques. “All of these different analyses provide different pieces of the puzzle,” O’Connell says.
None of this equipment comes cheap; fortunately, corporate and private donors have jumped at the chance to be part of the historic project. “Everyone’s doing us a favor,” O’Connell tells me. GE allowed her to rent a digital x-ray machine for a single day; the painting had to be moved down to a basement storage room, where cinderblock walls offered protection from the radiation. “It was amazing to see the paint layers revealed in real time,” McCurdy says. “It was just a little glimpse into what we’re going to learn.”
Pride of place in O’Connell’s lab is given to a six-foot-tall surgical microscope on loan from the medical-instruments company Haag-Streit. While The Huntington’s paper conservators already had a high-tech benchtop microscope, this one has the long neck necessary to reach over the 6-by-4-foot canvas. (“Luckily, I’m tall and I have long arms,” O’Connell jokes.) The microscope features dual eyepieces, a monitor showing visitors the conservator’s view, and a footpad that allows O’Connell to adjust the microscope without taking her hands off her work. (She’s had to give up the sturdy clogs she normally wears in the lab in favor of thin-soled ballet flats while she learns to manipulate the sensitive controls.) Best of all, the microscope’s base is so heavy that it won’t tip over in an earthquake.
Earthquakes are never far from O’Connell’s mind when a masterpiece like The Blue Boy is on her table. She “put[s] him to bed every night,” building him a fortress of ethafoam blocks, boards, and plastic tarps, carefully weighted down in case of disaster. While the painting is insured for millions of dollars, it is, of course, irreplaceable. For example, if it were arriving on the market today in its native England, it would “definitely be stopped” from coming to the U.S. by modern U.K. cultural heritage laws, McCurdy says.
Back in 1921, the American railroad magnate Henry Huntington acquired The Blue Boy from the Duke of Westminster for just $728,000. Though a bargain by today’s standards, at the time it was the highest price ever paid for a painting, albeit one described by The New York Times as “the world’s most beautiful picture.” The media breathlessly chronicled the portrait’s journey “from gilded galleries in Park Lane to the Wild West across the winter sea,” to quote Cole Porter’s ditty The Blue Boy Blues. By the time it arrived at Huntington’s California estate, it was not just a painting but also an icon.
Since then, The Blue Boy has become a part of The Huntington’s DNA. At one point, the museum even installed a trap door beneath the painting, allegedly so it could be whisked into a basement bomb shelter in the event of a nuclear attack. That same basement now holds a collection of Blue Boy kitsch, from ashtrays to needlepoint pillows, assembled by an enthusiastic donor.
The Blue Boy has become part of the Western cultural DNA, too. One of the painting’s first owners was John Hoppner, a painter whose work is represented in The Huntington’s collection. The Pop Art pioneer Robert Rauschenberg credited The Blue Boy with inspiring him to become a painter after he visited The Huntington on shore leave from the Navy during World War II. More recently, the L.A. artist Alex Israel evoked it in his 2014 self-portrait in a blue satin Dodgers jacket. The contemporary portraitist Kehinde Wiley, who took art classes at The Huntington as a child, cites The Blue Boy as a transforming influence. Quentin Tarantino paid tribute to a now-lost silent movie about the painting—F. W. Murnau’s 1919 Der Knabe in Blau—by putting Jamie Foxx in a frilly blue suit in Django Unchained.
“It’s famous not just because it’s famous. It’s famous because it’s good,” McCurdy points out. Nevertheless, the painting’s fame has tended to obscure how little scholars really know about it. Even the sitter’s very identity is in question. Though The Blue Boy was long thought to be a portrait of Gainsborough’s young neighbor, Jonathan Buttall, recent scholarship points to a model even closer to home: Gainsborough Dupont, the artist’s nephew and assistant.
While Project Blue Boy is still in its early stages, O’Connell is already confident that it will uncover some surprises. X-rays performed in 1939 revealed an unfinished portrait of an older man behind his head. Further studies in 1994 uncovered a fluffy white dog at the boy’s feet—possibly the artist’s own English water spaniel, Tristram. McCurdy hopes the current investigation will answer questions not just about The Blue Boy, but also about that ghostly unfinished portrait. “There’s a backstory behind why that portrait was abandoned,” she says. “If we can learn more about that painting, we may uncover some fascinating anecdote about Gainsborough’s life or studio practice.” Thanks to recent advances in technology, “there’s a chance we’re going to get a pretty clear image of that face,” she predicts.
McCurdy, who came to the The Huntington as a graduate student 17 years ago, has been waiting a long time to see The Blue Boy’s true colors. “One thing I’m looking forward to is getting as close as possible to Gainsborough’s original palette,” she says. “It’s under layers of layers of varnish, which discolors over time. Even if only a few layers come off, it will look like a whole new painting.” But not too new. “We don’t want it to look brand new—it’s not!” McCurdy explains. “Paintings tend to look jarring when they’re first cleaned. It’s always a balance between the artist’s intent and public expectations.”
Touring The Huntington’s portrait gallery, hung with full-length paintings by Gainsborough and his contemporaries, it’s immediately evident which canvases have undergone similar conservation treatments: They positively glow with depth, clarity, and saturated colors, while the untreated canvases look hazy, chalky, and dull in comparison. But it’s impossible to tell where the painter’s brushstrokes end and the conservator’s begin. “If I do my job right, you don’t see my work,” O’Connell says. “It’s invisible.”


When Kingsman: The Secret Service landed in theaters two years ago, it was a surprising, if modestly guilty, pleasure. For more than 30 years—going back at least as far as Never Say Never Again—James Bond had been derided within his own franchise as a “dinosaur,” for his tailored suits, sexist attitudes, and proclivity for violence. Kingsman thus served as a kind of Jurassic Park for the Bondian gentleman spy, resurrecting him from prehistoric Connery DNA discovered in fossilized amber somewhere. It was, as I noted at the time, “reactionary bordering on retrograde bordering on reprobate [but] also a tremendous amount of fun.”
Pulling off such a satirical feat once was hard enough, and it seemed unlikely that the movie’s director, Matthew Vaughn, could manage it a second time. He doesn’t—quite. But Vaughn’s new sequel, Kingsman: The Golden Circle, while not as fresh as its predecessor, is nonetheless better than one might expect: a goofier, more over-the-top treatment of a premise that was pretty goofy and over-the-top the first time around.
Tea and Testosterone: The Rip-Roaring Appeal of Kingsman
Kingsman, you see, is the name of a discreet and oh-so-very-British private intelligence service. (Its headquarters is accessed by way of a luxury tailor on Savile Row.) In the first film we watched the impeccably dressed, umbrella-wielding superspy Harry Hart (Colin Firth) take a young hooligan nicknamed “Eggsy” (Taron Egerton) under his wing and make him into a Kingsman—essentially a killing machine in vest and tie. Alas, before the final reel, Harry himself was shot dead.
Or was he? The trailers for The Golden Circle have not been coy on this point, so I won’t be either. Within the first 15 minutes of the movie, Harry is revealed to have survived, even if he’s dealing with a certain degree of amnesia. (In related news: Finally, Warner Bros! As if anyone ever believed Superman wouldn’t be brought back to life for Justice League.)
But if Harry is still kicking, the same soon cannot be said of most of his fellow Kingsmen. Early in The Golden Circle, their HQ is blown to smithereens, leaving only Eggsy and support staffer “Merlin” (Mark Strong) in one piece. (A post-Hogwarts Michael Gambon gets to play “Arthur,” the head of Kingsman, for mere seconds before meeting his maker.) So Eggsy and Merlin crack open the organization’s only-in-case-of-supreme-emergency safe and discover ... a bottle of bourbon? About the time they reach the bottom of it, they recognize it to be a clue and make their way to the Kentucky distillery whence it came. (Aficionados will recall that Kentucky was also the location of the bigot-filled church in the first movie, and thus appears to be the franchise’s stand-in for America as a whole.)
When they arrive at the distillery, Eggsy and Merlin discover a parallel American agency, Statesman, founded at the same time as their own. Replace Kingsman’s bespoke suits with cowboy-wear, their Arthurian codenames with ones based on varying types of liquor, and—well, you get the idea. It’s worth noting here that, although Channing Tatum (“Tequila”) and Jeff Bridges (“Champagne,” or more colloquially, “Champ”) feature prominently as Statesmen in the film’s trailers and other marketing, their roles aren’t much more than cameos. More notable among Kingsman’s “American cousins” are Pedro Pascal (who was marvelous as Oberyn Martell in Game of Thrones) as “Whiskey” and Halle Barry as support agent “Ginger Ale.”
Once again, a capitalist villain has launched a plan for global genocide transmitted by means of an addictive consumer product; this time, though, it’s drugs rather than smart phones. The villain in question is Poppy Adams (Julianne Moore), a vice merchant who has outfitted her jungle lair like a faux 1950s diner—Dr. No by way of Johnny Rockets.
The story proceeds from there pretty much as one might expect. Kingsmen and Statesmen unite to tackle the Poppy problem, double crosses ensue, and numerous action sequences take place that are cleverly choreographed, comically violent, and spatially impossible without abundant CGI assistance. Heroes and villains alike deploy the kinds of gadgets that the Bond franchise grew appropriately embarrassed about long ago—cars with machine guns, cars that turn into subs, robot arms, robot dogs—and there are gags concerning John Denver and the war on drugs. We witness the eating of an exceptionally revolting hamburger and the placement of a diabolically naughty tracking device.
The returning cast is solid, but while Firth and Egerton don’t have quite the twinkle they showed in the previous outing, Strong throws himself fully into Merlin’s delightful brogue. Moore shows off her comic chops as the Happy Daysified supervillain, and Pascal is a charismatic onscreen presence even if his Texan accent occasionally falters.
Which brings me to the extended cameo by a generationally famous pop icon playing himself—I won’t say whom—which begins relatively understated but becomes considerably more gonzo as it progresses. Is it a rather cheap and cheesy bid for audience amusement? Of course it is. But it is nonetheless an effective one.
That is, in fact, a reasonable summary of The Golden Circle overall. Whereas the first Kingsman was a relatively focused spoof of the Bond genre, the sequel goes farther afield for its humor. (There is, after all, no real history of American cowboy-spy movies for Statesman to parody.) The movie is too long, too violent, too silly—too everything. Yet for those who enjoyed the original Kingsman, it is a more than adequate second act. To put it another way: first time satire, second time farce.


“In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit.” So began the legendarium that dominated a genre, changed Western literature and the field of linguistics, created a tapestry of characters and mythology that endured four generations, built an anti-war ethos that endured a World War and a Cold War, and spawned a multibillion-dollar media franchise. J.R.R. Tolkien’s work is probably best remembered today by the sword-and-sandal epic scale of The Lord of The Rings films, but it started in the quiet, fictionalized English countryside of the Shire. It started, 80 years ago in a hobbit-hole, with Bilbo Baggins.
Although Tolkien created the complicated cosmological sprawl of The Silmarillion and stories like the incestuous saga of Túrin Turambar told in The Children of Húrin, Middle-earth itself is mostly remembered today as something akin to little Bilbo in his Hobbit-hole: quaint, virtuous, and tidy. Nowadays, George R.R. Martin’s got the market cornered on heavily initialed fantasy writers, and his hand guides the field. High and epic fantasy are often expected to dip heavily into the medieval muck of realism, to contain heavy doses of sex and curses, gore and grime, sickness and believable motives and set pieces. Characters like Martin’s mercenary Bronn of the Blackwater are expected to say “fuck.” Modern stories, even when set in lands like A Song of Ice and Fire’s Essos that are filled with competing faiths, tend toward the nihilist, and mostly atheist. Heavenly beings are denuded of potency and purity; while the gods may not be dead, divinity certainly is.
Modern fantasy and its subgenres, as represented in Martin’s work, might be positioned as anti-art in relation to Tolkien. In that way, Tolkien still dominates. While the watchword of the day is subversion—twisting tropes, destroying moral absolutes with relativism, and making mockeries of gallantry and heroism—subversion still requires a substrate. So although fantasy creators in all media have devoted most of their energies in the past eight decades to digesting Tolkien, so in turn Tolkien has become part of the fabric of their works. There’s a little Bilbo in Tyrion, a bit of Smaug in Eragon’s dragons, a dash of Aragorn in Shannara’s Shea Ohmsford, and a touch of Gandalf in the wizards of Discworld.
That’s why, on this week’s anniversary of the publication of The Hobbit and of the entrance of Tolkien into the fantasy genre, it’s important to reread and reconsider his works, and his first especially. Although the short and whimsical book is considered lightweight compared to The Lord of the Rings trilogy, it’s still in many ways the best that literature has to offer. Tolkien is first a linguist, and it’s not only his creation of elvish, dwarvish, and orcish languages out of whole cloth that impresses, but also the way he toys with English and illustrates the power of language itself to create. Ever a good author surrogate, Bilbo’s true arms and armor aren’t his trusty half-sword Sting or his mithril shirt, but—as Gollum would find out—his words and riddles. As Bilbo tells Smaug, the dragon:
I come from under the hill, and under the hills and over the hills my paths led. And through the air. I am he that walks unseen. … I am the clue-finder, the web-cutter, the stinging fly. I was chosen for the lucky number. … I am he that buries his friends alive and drowns them and draws them alive again from the water.
Bilbo’s warrior-poetry is big and boastful enough to go toe-to-toe with Muhammad Ali.
The hobbit’s journey from the comforts of the Shire through the mysterious dwarven ruins in the bowels of mountains and to the lair of a treasure-hoarding dragon double as a Bildungsroman, not only for the protagonist but for Tolkien as well. In the climax of the book, when the hero despairs at the greed and collapse of diplomacy that leads to the pointless Battle of Five Armies, so is revealed Tolkien’s hatred of war. His own experiences as a soldier in the trenches of World War I gave him a worldview that blended an old-world genteel Christian Englishness with an acid skepticism of power that wouldn’t become mainstream in American audiences until 40 years later during the Vietnam War.
The internal and external quests of The Hobbit are perhaps especially important today. In a time when young men in particular seem disaffected, unmoored, prone to violence and radicalization, and are dying at accelerating rates from “deaths of despair”—suicides and overdoses, mostly—the central lessons of the book aren’t found in the fantastic elements, on the backs of Eagles, or in the scope of Tolkien’s maps. Rather, the important lessons are found in the development of Bilbo and his dwarf companions Thorin, Balin, Fíli, and Kíli: the dignity of humanity, the virtue of generosity, a respect for life, a duty to do good, and the ways in which brotherhood can be used to move men toward those ideals. In a world today where nuclear doom—for which The Ring can be read as a metaphor—hangs over every country, where efforts to work for common good seem to crumble, and where inequality and hegemony seem likely to persist in perpetuity, perhaps those quaint values are more crucial now than ever.
Some things in The Hobbit and The Lord of The Rings trilogy can be left behind. The world of Middle-earth betrays forms of paternalism, imperialism, and racial essentialism that have no use today. But other elements that are now often derided—like Gandalf’s tendency to act as a demi-deus ex machina and the books’ belief that good always prevails—are actually paramount to the works’ legacy. The true ethos of a nihilistic society, where bad-news fatigue and eroding faith in truth and in human institutions are enduring enough to create a durable meme out of the “This is fine” dog, might be a desperate need to seek assurance that things might actually turn out fine. And the overwhelming lesson of The Hobbit’s time “between the Dawn of Færie and the Dominion of Men” is that things might not turn out fine, but that people can become whole through the effort of making them so.


“Pain without a cause is pain we can’t trust,” the author Leslie Jamison wrote in 2014. “We assume it’s been chosen or fabricated.”
Jamison’s essay “Grand Unified Theory of Female Pain” unpacked the suffering-woman archetype, which encompasses literature’s broken hearts (Anna Karenina, Miss Havisham) and society’s sad girls—the depressed, the anorexic, and in the 19th century, the tubercular. Wariness about being defined by suffering, she argued, had led many modern women to adopt a new pose. She wrote, “The post-​wounded woman conducts herself as if preempting certain accusations: Don’t cry too loud; don’t play victim.” Jamison questioned whether this was an overcorrection. “The possibility of fetishizing pain is no reason to stop representing it,” she wrote. “Pain that gets performed is still pain.”
How Beyoncé and Kanye Made Marriage Cool Again
Jamison’s work might come to mind when watching Lady Gaga’s new documentary, Gaga: Five Foot Two, or when reading about the singer postponing her European tour. The pop star this month informed the world that she suffers from fibromyalgia, which causes chronic muscle pain. In the documentary, she visits the doctor, she curls up on a couch, she cries in agony. On Instagram, she prays while holding a rosary. The caption is a lengthy apology to her fans for having to postpone upcoming performances due to her condition.
While forthright, Gaga’s statements about her struggle have been somewhat couched in embarrassment—and the public has responded with both sympathy and skepticism. “I use the word ‘suffer’ not for pity, or attention, and have been disappointed to see people online suggest that I’m being dramatic, making this up, or playing the victim to get out of touring,” she wrote. It’s not the first time she’s been doubted or criticized about something that her body has gone through. When hip surgery made her cancel her 2013 tour, some folks accused her of faking her injury because of underwhelming ticket sales.
In many ways, this skepticism is deeply familiar. It is a documented fact that women tend to report more pain than men—but also that their pain is seen as less credible, with women less likely to be given strong pain relievers, facing inordinately long wait times to be treated, and likely to be told that their problems are mental or emotional rather than physical. It’s not hard to draw a line from the presumptions underlying that inequality to the gendered way that literature and music about suffering is often classified. It’s also easy to see how such attitudes give rise to the “post-wounded” affect Jamison writes about.
This bias is, in fact, so familiar that there are scripts that a plugged-in, empathetic person might use to respond to Gaga. “Believe women,” goes the mantra of campaigns to curb sexual assault. “Believe the patient,” counsels medical literature on the topic of pain. But Gaga’s situation presents another test of compassion and trust. Believe the pop star? Who’d be so gullible as to do that?
* * *
Of all the celebrities to face a medical trial in public, Gaga would seem a particularly complex one. She rose to stardom for celebrating the artifice of fame: for leaning into the fabulous possibilities of forgetting the self, for bypassing “realness” in glimmering studio pastiches. Authenticity, fixed identity, and even the limitations of the human body were, explicitly, jokes in her universe. You needed not know Gaga the person.
But Gaga has spent the past three years deconstructing her previous project, which is its own kind of performance. Elaborate dance pop ceded ground to jazz standards, showtunes, and country rock. Tentacle gowns went into the closet; jeans and a pink cowboy hat came out. The director Chris Moukarbel shot Five Foot Two largely on handheld—maybe even smartphone—cameras. You see Gaga cooking, recording, planning, crying, bonding. In one scene, she’s topless as she chats with her team by the poolside. The implication: This is Gaga, au naturel. Yet she never seems to forget the camera.
Five Foot Two documents last year’s release of her album Joanne, and makes clear how much Gaga’s public reboot relied on demonstrating that she, like everyone else, suffers. Gaga has increasingly mined the traumas of her own life, with songs and philanthropic efforts growing out of her rape at age 19. The dissolution of her engagement to the actor Taylor Kinney, mournfully referenced a few times in the documentary, seemed to inform the breakup-themed Joanne singles “Perfect Illusion” and “Million Reasons.”
But there was a deeper source of anguish on Joanne, too. The album is named for her aunt, an aspiring artist who died of lupus at age 19 in 1974. “Seeing what that did to [my father] and my family was the most powerful thing I experienced growing up,” Gaga tells the journalist Darryl Pinckney in the film. “I am Joanne. I am my father’s daughter. That is what this record is about.”
The most memorable scene of the documentary comes when she first plays the album’s delicate, acoustic title track for her grandmother, Joanne’s mom. The moment verges on uncomfortable, and not only because Gaga’s father, Joanne’s brother, gets up and leaves the room in apparent distress midway through. Gaga herself seems hungry to have her telling of an ordeal she did not personally experience validated by those who did. “Did I get it right?” she asks her grandmother, mid-hug. “Yes you did,” her grandmother responds. But she has a warning for Gaga, too: “Don’t become maudlin over all this.”
It’s never explicitly stated, but Gaga seems to connect to Joanne’s story in part because of her own medical situation. Iconography about hospitals and crutches and wheelchairs over the years hinted that the seemingly bionic pop star faced problems of the flesh off-stage. In 2010, she told Larry King she tested “borderline positive” for lupus. She’s still feeling the effects of the injury she sustained in 2013, as seen in a Five Foot Two moment when she pauses rehearsals for her Super Bowl halftime show because of hip tightness. Fibromyalgia appears to make that problem worse, and being a pop star in chronic pain certainly doesn’t seem easy. One scene shows her having her makeup done for a performance while sitting in a doctor’s examination room.
Gaga’s particular ailment is an almost-literal rendering of Jamison’s “pain without a cause”—which is, as she notes, “pain which can’t be trusted.” A poorly understood but widespread disorder that seems to inordinately affect women, fibromyalgia is sometimes assumed to be psychosomatic. “Drug Approved. Is Disease Real?” read a 2008 New York Times headline about the first FDA-sanctioned drug to treat it. Gaga has said that she wants to help raise awareness and research dollars. During one excruciating flare-up shown in Five Foot Two, she sympathizes with less-privileged sufferers of the disorder: “Like, I don’t know what I’d fuckin’ do if I didn’t have everybody here to help me.”
A few moments later, she’s looking straight into the camera. “Do I look pathetic?” she asks, tear-streaked, lying on a couch, a therapist massaging her. “I’m so embarrassed.” It’s a powerful moment because the stigma of pain is clearly part of the pain itself. But it’s also aesthetically striking. To answer Gaga’s question, she actually looks like she did in parts of the “Bad Romance” video—crying, stripped down, and oddly luminous. It’s a sign of fame’s power on the viewer: Whatever lengths she might go to put person over persona, the persona remains.
* * *
Pop music has firmly moved on from the phase of gleeful, Technicolor artifice that Gaga stood for at her peak. Contemporaries in wildness like Kesha and Miley Cyrus have done much what Gaga has done and traded Alexander McQueen creations for cowboy boots. They have also made a diaristic turn, harmonizing their music with their angsty, tabloid sagas.
Usually this means trading on the spectacle of suffering to sell pop’s ultimate commodity—inspiration. Beyoncé’s Lemonade is the signal example, taking the sting of infidelity to spin a tale of hurt and overcoming. Kesha’s alleged abuse by her mentor and producer Dr. Luke was addressed and transcended on this year’s Rainbow. Katy Perry marketed her latest album with an on-camera therapy session in which she cried about her “real” self wanting to be known. Taylor Swift seems on the verge of unveiling a more acidic survival story.
“Victim to victory” songs are always in fashion, but the latest boom relies, more than pop usually does, on the feeling of authenticity. Adult listeners of drive-time radio typically know they’re in the realm of fantasy and commerce, yet fully enjoying the confessional-pop performance means buying into the non-musical narratives surrounding them. Beyoncé rolled her own child and husband into the Lemonade visual experience. “I write this shit, baby,” Kesha insisted on a recent single. You’re explicitly asked to believe that the gap between performer and person is negligible.
Joanne already fit into this triumphant-confessional class, with Gaga singing about family members and friends by name and roaring, “I might not be flawless but you know I’ve got a diamond heart.” The meta-text, all along, was Gaga’s own career arc—a sense that she’d come down from the heights she’d reached from 2008 to 2013, stumbled with her third album, and might never recover. Glimmers of past traumas and family tragedy contributed to the pathos. Her medical troubles would seem to retroactively add in a new layer, though it’s unclear when she received her fibromyalgia diagnosis, and little on the album can be heard as an explicit reference to illness. Certainly the lyrics about healing through love on her post-Joanne single, “The Cure,” now seem a lot less generic.

Susan Sontag’s 1976 essay “Illness as Metaphor” warned against real physical sickness becoming reduced, in the cultural consciousness, to symbols of strength and weakness, nobility and sin. “My point is that illness is not a metaphor, and that the most truthful way of regarding illness—and the healthiest way of being ill—is one most purified of, most resistant to, metaphoric thinking,” the critic wrote. Yet pop musicians, by trade, render the entire world in metaphor. One love story is everyone’s; the smallest triumph stands in for the largest and vice versa.
Thus far, though, Gaga has mostly communicated about her illness in straightforward terms: footage showing her in pain and statements saying she simply, practically, cannot perform. It’s left up to the public to connect Gaga’s Joanne-era theme of vulnerability with her real-life medical saga. But perhaps that connection is better off undrawn: Gaga’s current struggle is just a struggle, not a statement about the human condition or about the singer’s own career. Inevitably, some will question her suffering—because she’s a woman, because of the nature of her sickness, and because of her job as a performer. But pain performed, as Jamison wrote, is still pain. And for now, Gaga is asking not for applause but understanding.


The most significant conflict in Battle of the Sexes isn’t the much hyped exhibition tennis game between the legendary athletes Bobby Riggs (Steve Carell) and Billie Jean King (Emma Stone)—the real-life 1973 match that’s the ostensible subject of Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris’s new film. More gripping is the struggle that plays out in the background of the famous match, one that built the foundation of the modern sport. In the first half of the movie, King organizes a boycott of a major tennis tournament over the disparity in prize money between men and women, and helps found the Virginia Slims Circuit, a series of tennis tournaments that eventually became the Women’s Tennis Association, a principal organizing body of the sport.
As played by Stone, King is somewhat mousy and shy in private, and even-handed and friendly in public. So, of course, she’s tarred as a radical by old boys of the sport like Jack Kramer (Bill Pullman), the organizer of the tournament she pulls out of. King’s supposed extremism amounted to arguing for equal prize money for female players and a union to help support their profession. The outsized reaction her effort received is the most fascinating part of Battle of the Sexes, a crowd-pleasing, middle-of-the-road piece of cinema that’s nonetheless frighteningly relevant today.
How This Year's Oscar Contenders Are Tackling Trump
Battle of the Sexes is directed with all the verve of a TV movie. It depicts tennis as little more than a job for King and a lark for Riggs, a retired legend of the sport who is now touring the oldies circuit to try and cover his gambling debts. That’s perfectly fitting, however, for a film covering a sporting event that was about much more than pure athleticism. Riggs vs. King was a sideshow blown up to national proportions by Riggs’s skill for advertising his own brand of chauvinism, which he inflated to cartoonish proportions to get himself back in the news and eventually lure King onto the court.
As King notes before their showdown, Riggs is largely just putting on a show for the cameras—but his public supporters, including Kramer, bought into his argument that men were inherently superior athletes and deserving of more prize money. Battle of the Sexes might be about a seemingly innocuous publicity stunt, but it was a stunt that became symbolic of a generational war over gender roles. King was no longer one athlete, but a standard-bearer for the very concept of feminism, and the battle she had to fight was not the one she was trying to draw attention to.
It’s not hard to connect the dots to the present day, especially when considering Riggs’s particular Trumpian brand of showmanship. But there’s little malevolence to Carell, who plays Riggs as a mostly harmless buffoon, a lovable cad spouting canned lines about women belonging in the kitchen. His half of the movie, as a result, feels pretty airless and slow—there aren’t many compelling stakes to his publicity ploy outside of his gambling addiction, which is presented with the same easy-breezy tone as everything else. Riggs shouldn’t be someone viewers take super-seriously, but as a competitive foil, he isn’t much to root against either.
King’s half is much more interesting, and Stone’s performance is surprisingly thoughtful and internal—less of a broad impression than Carell’s. The early chunk of the film, which follows King’s organization of the pioneering Virginia Slims Tour alongside the famed publisher Gladys Heldman (Sarah Silverman), is engaging, as is the material focusing on her burgeoning relationship with her hairdresser Marilyn Barnett (Andrea Riseborough). Dayton and Faris handle King’s first lesbian relationship with far more nuance and care than the main storyline, which often feels like little more than a loose summary leading up to an inevitable conclusion—the big ’73 match at the Houston Astrodome.
Riseborough is extremely winning as Barnett, a freer spirit than the relatively buttoned-down King, and her chemistry with Stone is effortlessly tender, even as their relationship threatens to spill into the public eye and endanger King’s marriage. Much like the story of the Virginia Slims Tour, King and Barnett’s romance almost feels like it could carry its own movie; and as a subplot, it’s far more enthralling than scenes of Carell palling around with his tennis buddies and causing a ruckus at a Gamblers Anonymous meeting.
But even though the subplots about King’s life generate the best drama, the film is ploddingly building to a much simpler (and less interesting) showdown: the “battle of the sexes” itself. Dayton and Faris first depict Riggs’s May 1973 match against King’s rival Margaret Court (Jessica McNamee), a thorough victory for Riggs that prompts King to finally accept his challenge to try and shut him up. I won’t spoil the outcome of the Riggs-King match (though a quick Google search would certainly do that for you), but there isn’t much suspense to the script, written by the Oscar-winner Simon Beaufoy (The Full Monty, Slumdog Millionaire). The battle’s been waged throughout the movie, on many fronts, and it’s clear what side the storytellers are rooting for.


When introducing his new movie The Shape of Water at the Toronto International Film Festival last week, the director Guillermo del Toro was clear about the message he wanted to convey. The Shape of Water is a romantic, grown-up fairytale, where a mute woman (Sally Hawkins) working at a secret government facility in 1962 falls in love with a sea creature (Doug Jones) that’s being held there against its will. It’s a story of empathy triumphing over prejudice, one where the facility’s villainous supervisor (Michael Shannon) is largely driven by hatred of what he doesn’t understand.
Veep's Showrunner on Clinton, Trump, and Insulting Jonah
“It’s super easy to sound smart when you’re a cynic,” del Toro said of the movie. “And I just thought, can we listen to The Beatles and Jesus, and sound smart when we talk about love?” Such a statement might sound trite, but it’s the bedrock of the film’s storytelling. When discussing The Shape of Water, del Toro (who is Mexican) has been equally upfront about how its sea creature is a stand-in for “the other,” or the outsider, in any kind of political situation. As this year’s Oscar race kicks off, del Toro’s movie is resonating—it won the Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival. It’s also part of a larger trend in political and allegorical mainstream filmmaking, where directors are plainly and loudly tackling the Trump administration, some with more grace than others.
The Toronto International Film Festival, which ended Sunday, has long been a proving ground for Oscar buzz, a preview of the next few months in cinema where movies either begin to build critical momentum for a major awards campaign or wither on the vine. This year, a sizable chunk of the festival’s biggest hits have a few key things in common—they’re coming out in the first full year of the Trump administration, they’re deeply topical despite many of them being period pieces covering unfortunate historical events, and they have all the subtlety of a sledgehammer.
The Shape of Water is an excellent film because it functions as both a parable and a delightful genre work that’s by turns rollicking fun and soaringly emotional. Del Toro has taken this storytelling approach in the past, particularly with his Spanish-language movies set in the shadow of the Spanish Civil War (The Devil’s Backbone and Pan’s Labyrinth). But The Shape of Water is more directly applicable to the current debate raging over the White House’s hardline immigration policies and the emergence of the alt-right.
Del Toro hasn’t shied away from that interpretation, saying of Shannon’s villain, “He doesn’t see anyone because his arrogance is so big. ... It speaks about the issue we have today that choosing fear over love is a disaster.” When asked about the current political climate, he said, “It’s like a cancer. We have a tumor now. That doesn’t mean the cancer started with that tumor. It was gestating for so long.” In dramatizing America’s idealized past in The Shape of Water, del Toro tries to get at the root of problems in the present. The film takes place in the ’60s, when the country is a forward-looking superpower, but the story is set largely within a darker underbelly. “If you were white, Anglo-Saxon, and Protestant, it was a great time to be alive,” del Toro said of that decade. “If you were not, if you were anything else, it was not.”
The allegory of American rot in The Shape of Water is mythic, but other Toronto hits were more obvious in their political parallels. Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris’s Battle of the Sexes, a recounting of the famous 1973 exhibition tennis game between Billie Jean King (Emma Stone) and Bobby Riggs (Steve Carell), all but invites viewers to map it onto the 2016 election. Riggs is a loudmouthed, if brazenly charismatic, performer who gets TV publicity by barking misogynistic opinions about women. King is unfairly burdened by the mantle of her sex, as her showdown with Riggs is billed as a winner-take-all war between Riggs’s outmoded values and the feminist movement. Dayton and Faris’s film is a gentle crowd-pleaser, but it would have seemed broader and more dated if it were released just a couple years earlier, before the Trump-Clinton race.
Joe Wright’s Darkest Hour, a biopic of Winston Churchill’s (Gary Oldman, assured of an Oscar win next year) first month in office as prime minister amid the Dunkirk evacuation in 1940, would have felt similarly passé not long ago. The film centers on Churchill’s boisterous resistance to the invading German armies, and the disquiet that provokes within his party, which still has a substantial contingent hoping to sue for peace. Wright and the screenwriter Anthony McCarten turn that ideological fight into a swooning parable of courage in one’s convictions and the necessity of standing up to extremism rather than trying to meet it halfway—a seemingly simple message that’s delivered with old-fashioned, stiff-upper-lip panache.
Other TIFF films focused on times in American politics that were similarly fraught, even if their contemporary resonance is less clear. Peter Landesman’s Mark Felt: The Man Who Brought Down the White House is a biopic about the FBI lifer who became “Deep Throat,” the journalist Bob Woodward’s source on the Watergate scandal. As written and directed by Landesman (a former journalist who has written for The Atlantic), the movie has the same blunt competence of his last film, Concussion, and sees Liam Neeson playing Felt as a warrior for political sanity in an age of back-stabbing chaos. Unfortunately, the movie misses some of the deeper complexity of the internecine wars between various government agencies at the time.
There’s also Chappaquiddick, a retelling of the 1969 car accident that almost ended the political career of Senator Ted Kennedy (Jason Clarke) and resulted in the death of his brother’s former campaign worker Mary Jo Kopechne (Kate Mara). That film, directed by John Curran, is much more narrowly invested in the double-edged mythos of the Kennedy family and is impressive mostly for how bitterly it portrays its subject, considering his eventual bounce-back. But given the many current scandals and distrust in government, any story touching on relevant tales from the past should find purchase with studios seeking Oscar gold.
There are films looking to take on the harder task of examining American race relations in more specific ways than The Shape of Water’s depiction of “the other.” Dee Rees’s terrific Mudbound, which has been acquired by Netflix, follows a white family and a black family in post–Civil War Mississippi, digging into the ways their dynamics have and haven’t changed since the conflict. But that movie (based on a novel by Hillary Jordan) succeeds because it’s character-driven, spending time on the backstories of each member of its ensemble and building slowly, and carefully, to its tragic outcome.
George Clooney’s Suburbicon, which had a rocky debut at TIFF, tries a more forthright approach, marrying a script about suburban crime shenanigans written by the Coen brothers in the 1980s with a real-life story. Clooney and his co-writer Grant Heslov took the Coens’ script and added a subplot based on the case of the African American Myers family, who moved into the Pennsylvania suburb of Levittown and were subjected to months of racially motivated torment by their white neighbors who wanted to drive them out. In joining the two ideas, Clooney seems to be trying to make a point about the ignorance and sublimated evil of the white couple (played by Matt Damon and Julianne Moore) at the center of the darkly comedic main plot. But since the two storylines never interact, and the actors playing the Myers family aren’t given much screen time, the juxtaposition feels bizarre, as does the uplifting note Clooney decides to end things on.
In talking about the movie, Clooney admitted he made story changes after Trump was elected (in the middle of Suburbicon’s production). “It changed the temperature on the film a little bit. ...  The goofy seemed too goofy,” he told me. “It was really written as a piece to talk about the idea that there’s a group of white Americans who are terrified that they’re losing their place in society and are blaming minorities for it.” Clooney’s intentions might have been noble, but Suburbicon was poorly received—it’ll be best remembered as an early reaction to a political moment that’s far from over. But when I spoke with him, Clooney did hit upon something that’s true about every wildly topical era in Hollywood: Movies succeed not when they’re didactic, but when they manage to reflect or capture a larger national mood.
“I don’t think films can tell people what to think, and I don’t think films can lead anything [politically] because it just takes too long to make them,” Clooney said. “What films can do is they can point to a moment in time in your history and tell you what you were thinking.” In the ’60s, Hollywood made films about nuclear paranoia and the end of the world; in the ’70s, it churned out cynical dramas about the nation’s growing distrust in government and rejection of societal norms. Now, viewers are seeing a wave of mainstream cinema that’s trying to find the right language for empathy and political resistance. As Clooney noted, movies can tell the country what it’s thinking, and this year’s Oscar crop is just the start of that effort.


“By the way, before you post a nasty Facebook message saying I’m politicizing my son’s health problems, I want you to know: I am politicizing my son’s health problems.”   
That was Jimmy Kimmel on Tuesday evening, in a monologue reacting to the introduction of Graham-Cassidy, the (latest) bill that seeks to replace the Affordable Care Act. Kimmel had talked about health care on his show before, in May—when, after his newborn son had undergone open-heart surgery to repair the damage of a congenital heart defect, he delivered a tearfully personal monologue sharing the experience of going through that—and acknowledging that he and his family were lucky: They could afford the surgery, whatever it might cost. Kimmel concluded his speech by, yes, politicizing his son’s health problems: He emphasized how important it is for lower- and middle-class families to have comprehensive insurance coverage, with protections for people with preexisting conditions. “No parent,” he said, speaking through tears, “should ever have to decide if they can afford to save their child’s life. It shouldn’t happen.”
The monologue went viral—it was a speech that “will surely be a big part of his late-night legacy,” my colleague David Sims noted at the time—and one of the people who saw it was Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana. The politician, a physician by trade, soon began talking about the need for an Obamacare replacement that would pass the “Jimmy Kimmel test.” Cassidy appeared on Jimmy Kimmel Live!, sound-biting the same message. Cassidy assured Kimmel—and, per the transitive property of late-night television, the American public—that he would work to create a new health-care bill that would pass that test.
The bill Cassidy ended up co-authoring with Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, which the two introduced earlier this month—a bill that, in the frenzied fashion becoming so common with such things, may be voted on next week—does not pass the test.
And so, on Tuesday, Jimmy Kimmel yet again politicized his son’s health problems. This time not with tears, but with anger.

“I don’t know what happened to Bill Cassidy,” Kimmel told his audience. “But when he was on this publicity tour, he listed his demands for a health-care bill very clearly. These were his words. He said he wants coverage for all, no discrimination based on preexisting conditions, lower premiums for middle-class families, and no lifetime caps.”
Kimmel paused. “Guess what? The new bill does none of those things.”
The bill does pass Cassidy’s “Jimmy Kimmel test,” the host allowed—but a different Kimmel test. “With this one, your child with a preexisting condition will get the care he needs—if, and only if, his father is Jimmy Kimmel. Otherwise, you might be screwed.”
It was a notable shift. The power of Kimmel’s earlier speech on health care was not just the pathos of its story, but also its ability to make the political personal: to drive home the idea that, while “health care” might seem academic and theoretical, it can, in an instant, become intensely personal, with stakes no less than life or death. Kimmel, this time around, took that same logic—the political, made personal—but applied it to a single person: Bill Cassidy.
“This is not my area of expertise,” Kimmel said. “My area of expertise is eating pizza, and that’s really about it. But we can’t let him do this to our children, and our senior citizens, and our veterans, or to any of us,” Kimmel told his audience.
We can’t let him. We can’t let him.
And then Kimmel zoomed out, extending his anger to Cassidy’s colleagues. “Health care is complicated,” Kimmel noted. “It’s boring. I don’t want to talk about it. The details are confusing. And that’s what these guys are relying on. They’re counting on you to be so overwhelmed with all the information, you just trust them to take care of you. But they’re not taking care of you. They’re taking care of the people who give them money. Like insurance companies.”
They. They. They.
Kimmel is a host who once boasted that an episode of his show would be “Trump-free”—and who once announced that “if anyone says the name of the orange-colored man with the Russian boyfriend, they will have to put $100 in that jar that Guillermo is holding right there.” Now, though, the politics have knocked on his own door, at his own home, for his own son. And he is rising to meet them—another late-night host who is embracing the idea that politics and entertainment are, at this moment in America, tightly tangled together. On Tuesday, at the end of his monologue, Kimmel listed the medical interest groups that have opposed Graham-Cassidy. He shared a number that viewers can call to tell their representatives that they oppose the bill. He took for granted that anger can be its own political force.
“There’s a new Jimmy Kimmel test for you,” Kimmel told Cassidy: “It’s called the lie detector test. You’re welcome to stop by the studio and take it anytime.”


This story contains spoilers through the whole first season of The Good Place.
The moment The Good Place transformed from genially quirky sitcom to malevolently brilliant work of art came at the end of the first season, when Eleanor (Kristen Bell) finally twigged that something was extremely wrong with heaven. After dying in the first episode and being welcomed by an angel named Michael (Ted Danson) to a sterilized, fro-yo friendly paradise, Eleanor spent the series trying to earn her spot in The Good Place, since a clerical error seemed to have sent her there by accident. But observing how efficiently the afterlife emotionally tortured Eleanor and her three new friends, she concluded that it was actually The Bad Place, a.k.a. hell. With that, Michael’s gentle expression twisted into a diabolical grin, revealing the monster he’d been all along.
Not since a journalist morphed into Al Pacino in The Devil’s Advocate has a metamorphosis been so jarring. Of course, there were clues: Michael kicked a puppy in the very second episode, and no self-respecting Elysium so closely resembles a chichi outdoor mall in Pasadena. But Eleanor wasn’t the only target. We, the audience, had been fooled into thinking The Good Place was just a zany comedy about a drunken pharmaceutical rep who lucks her way into heaven, but really it was a much craftier and more complex beast, using food puns and toilet humor to disguise a show that was deeply interested in the moral philosophy of existence. When Eleanor scribbled a note to herself to “find Chidi,” her “soulmate” (William Jackson Harper) who actually ended up being her soulmate, she wrote it on a page ripped from T.M. Scanlon’s What We Owe to Each Other, a 1998 treatise that considers the duty humans have to be good to one another.
The Otherworldly Genius of The Good Place
The brilliance of the twist was that it upended everything viewers thought they knew about the show while also making perfect sense. Where could a second season go from there? Judging by the first four episodes, two of which air on Wednesday night before the show returns to a normal Thursday schedule, The Good Place’s showrunner, Michael Schur, has it all figured out. To reveal too much would be to spoil the surprise, but the second series picks up where the first left off, with Eleanor in The Good Place 2.0, her memory wiped, trying to decipher the note she wrote for herself while acclimating to an afterlife that’s just as strange as ever, though tinged with a more palpable darkness.
The most obvious advantage of The Good Place post-reveal is that it allows Danson to play up his devilish side. His fiendish giggle from the finale, rapidly immortalized in GIF form, offered a glimpse of Michael’s potential as a baddie, but he’s not just evil in the new episodes—he’s in trouble. Understandably so, since the (dubious) conceit of The Good Place is that it’s a worthwhile investment to recruit hundreds of demons as actors and construct a huge paradise just to torture four souls who weren’t even that terrible during their time on Earth. (In addition to Eleanor, Michael’s carefully crafted hell-alternative was designed to plague Chidi, a Senegalese ethics professor who can’t make decisions; Tahani (Jameela Jamil), a self-absorbed and shallow philanthropist; and Jason (Manny Jacinto), a moronic DJ and wannabe dancer from Jacksonville.)
The Good Place has always had elements of a workplace comedy, but with Michael intent on finding ways to make his elaborate idea work, the show is now more explicitly akin to The Office and Parks and Recreation (both of which Schur also worked on). Michael gives himself comforting pep talks about confidence before Skype meetings with his boss, a demonic higher-up (Marc Evan Jackson). And he has to negotiate with his disgruntled underlings, most of whom want to go back to their old jobs pulling out fingernails, tossing people into acid pits, and working the old (self-explanatory) penis flattener. There’s a meta element, too, with the demon who played Real Eleanor last season (Tiya Sircar) now unhappy with her new, diminished role (“There’s a great arc coming for Denise the Pizza Lady,” Michael tells her, placatingly.)
Watching the first few episodes, I was concerned that it all seemed too scattered, with Groundhog Day–like repetition that could quickly become wearing. But I wasn’t giving Schur enough credit. There’s a distinct plan in place, one that opens up all kinds of new narrative ground for the show to explore. Along the way, it gets to pursue the most fascinating questions it set up last season. What does moral growth really mean? What if The Good/Bad Place ended up redeeming the four souls it was designed to torture? What if Michael, in trying to devise a hell for others, created a world that ended up tormenting him just as much? And, most intriguingly, what does the real Good Place look like?
These are complex existential questions for a show obsessed with terrible puns (“Knish From a Rose,” “Biscotti Pippen,” and “Beignet and the Jets” are a few of the bakeries in the new, improved Good/Bad Place), one that has space in its universe for something called “butthole spiders.” But that’s the magic of The Good Place: The bad stuff is really what makes it special.


This story contains spoilers throughout for the plot of mother!
Since it was announced, the prime selling point of Darren Aronofsky’s new film mother! has been two-fold: that it stars one of the most famous actresses working today, Jennifer Lawrence, and that the particulars of its plot are an utter mystery. Well, after months of secrecy, the movie hit theaters in wide release last weekend, and audiences are finally getting the chance to puzzle over this bizarre, chaotic work of horror.
Aronofsky’s tale is blunt, fantastical, and obviously laden with symbolism, but for me, the biggest delight about mother! is how many people have shared with me their different takes on the film’s message. My colleague Christopher Orr discussed the movie’s openness to multiple interpretations in his review, noting both the story’s Biblical allusions and its apparent self-referential tone about the difficulty of life as an artist, and how monstrous creators can become. Now that mother! is out, it’s worth dig more deeply into the great debate that’s already emerged over the film’s meaning.
Mother! Is a Stunning, Ferocious Head Trip
The plot of mother! is very simple—at least until it starts getting more unhinged. It begins on a shot of a woman’s crying face in the middle of a vast inferno, after which a man (Javier Bardem) inserts a crystal into a pedestal and magically repairs the burnt home around him. Cut to: an unnamed woman (Jennifer Lawrence) who lives in this gorgeous house in the middle of nowhere with her husband (Bardem). He’s a poet of some renown, busy toiling on his next great work (although he appears to be suffering from writer’s block). She’s devotedly renovating their home, painting the walls and such, and seems to have some mystical power to “feel” the heart of the house, by touching the walls and visualizing a giant, pumping organ.
Soon enough, another man (Ed Harris) shows up, identifying himself as a doctor looking for a place to stay. Bardem (the characters have no names, so it’s easier to identify them by their performers) invites him in and the two rapidly bond, to Lawrence’s discomfort. Harris quickly gets sick, with some unspecified ailment creating a bruise on his side. Then his wife (Michelle Pfeiffer) shows up, unafraid to snipe at Lawrence over the large age gap between her and her husband. Harris, encouraged by Pfeiffer, accidentally breaks Bardem’s crystal, inspiring his rage. The visiting couple’s grown-up kids (Domhnall and Brian Gleeson) then show up and immediately get in a fight, with the elder killing the younger and receiving a scar on his forehead in the struggle. As the family holds a funeral in the house (while Lawrence’s agita only increases), there’s a deluge of water prompted by a guest breaking a fancy sink fixture, which finally drives everyone out for good.
This covers the first half of the film, which, as Orr noted, you could cheekily call a “testament”: one where Bardem is a stand-in for God, Harris and Pfeiffer are Adam (down to his rib injury) and Eve (as much of a temptress as ever), and their kids are Cain and Abel, with the former killing the latter and being “marked” for this primal sin. Bardem’s magic crystal is a violated forbidden fruit, and the burst sink pipes are the flood punishing God’s early followers and wiping the world clean.
When the film’s second act begins, Bardem’s new poetry is complete and Lawrence’s character is pregnant. By the end, her baby (likely some sort of stand-in for Christ’s body) has been eaten alive by a crazed mob of Bardem’s followers. They initially burst into the house as fans of his work but devolve into violence and surreal scenes of warfare, ravaging the house before Lawrence burns it down in a fit of grief at the loss of her child. As she dies cursing her husband, Bardem asks for her love, and she assents. It comes in the form of her heart, which he pulls out of her chest and turns into a crystal that he then uses to rebuild the house again, creating a new bride, played by a new actress.
It’s wild stuff—but the Bible allegory only goes so far, even if Aronofsky himself hinted at it when introducing mother! at the Toronto International Film Festival (he referred to Harris’s character as “the man,” then added, “that’s a clue”). Lawrence’s character has no obvious counterpart in either testament; instead, she’s some sort of analogue for Mother Earth, or Gaia, an embodiment of nature and creation, with the house (which slowly gets destroyed by its callous houseguests) a stand-in for the planet itself. Or you could see her as the warmer, welcoming half of the Godhead, with Bardem representing the aloof, unknowable half. There are vague concepts of reincarnation and renewal in the film’s ending, too, more reflective of Hinduism or Buddhism than anything Judeo-Christian.
The joy of mother!, to me, lies beyond the religious metaphor of God and Adam and Eve and so on; judge it just on that level, and it feels bludgeoning from a storytelling perspective. There’s a lot more to dig into, some of it probably conscious on Aronofsky’s part, some of it not so much. He’s spoken in interviews of the environmental message he’s trying to get across, telling The Hollywood Reporter, “I think [the planet’s] being undone by humanity. I don’t blame one gender over the other gender. I think it is about how people are insatiable, how there’s this endless consumption.”
But, like so many films (especially one with such obvious personal investment on Aronofsky’s part), mother! is clearly also a movie about art and the creative process, one with a rather negative view of the great creator at its center. The brooding Bardem can’t help but hold Lawrence at arm’s length, sometimes storming off to write, other times brushing off her concerns about the invading houseguests (from whom he draws inspiration). Though she loves him, Lawrence can’t help but fixate on the major age difference between them, and after their relationship eventually falls apart, Bardem uses her heart—her inspiration—to build a grand new work and, with it, a new female partner.
Aronofsky is, ironically, now romantically involved with Lawrence, though they met during the filming of mother!, well after he’d written the movie. But of course, such industry romances are hardly unusual, and neither is the idea of artists writing about their own relationships; it’s just fascinating how Aronofsky has turned that dynamic into something grand, destructive, and ultimately horrifying. Lawrence’s character, at times, seems like a parody of the “barefoot and pregnant” stereotype, always padding around the house without any footwear. The actress called this a conscious choice, saying, “It never would have been right for my character to wear shoes. Nature is her creation.”
Whether you loved it or not (I was mixed on its overall quality), mother! is the kind of film that just doesn’t get a wide release in Hollywood—it’s violent, it’s weird, and it’s genuinely trying to baffle viewers and spark debate. It’s exciting to see a big star like Lawrence use her clout to get it made, and even more exciting for a major studio to release it around the country. Though the movie’s opening weekend was pretty weak—an estimated $7.5 million with an “F” CinemaScore (which measures audience satisfaction to try and gauge word-of-mouth), Paramount has stuck up for the film, saying in a statement, “This movie is very audacious and brave ... we don’t want all movies to be safe. And it’s okay if some people don’t like it.”
The studio, essentially, deserves to be lauded for putting out a film so polarizing. Whether viewers love or hate it, they always seem to exit mother! with a strong opinion, which is more than can be said for most Hollywood blockbusters. For a movie that seems deeply unsubtle in its storytelling, mother! is still as mysterious as the misshapen, oblong crystal that Bardem creates his paradise from—different from every angle.


Hulu's The Handmaid's Tale won the Emmy award for Best Drama Series on Sunday night, the first time that a streaming service has snagged the show’s top award.
In many ways, this is a surprising news peg (Hulu?!) for an unsurprising story (the rise of streaming television). Hulu is a distant third behind Netflix and Amazon in the streaming wars, which makes last night’s underdog achievement impressive. But it was only a matter of time before a streaming company took home an award for best series. Netflix has been nominated for top drama or comedy several times—for House of Cards, Orange Is the New Black, Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, and Master of None, and Amazon has earned several nods for Transparent.
Meanwhile, the growth of prestige television on streaming services is part of the long term decline of critical darlings on broadcast television (NBC, ABC, CBS, and Fox). The last broadcast production to win the Emmy for top drama was 24, on Fox, in 2006. While comedies like 30 Rock (NBC) and Modern Family (ABC) have thrived at the Emmy’s in the last decade, HBO's Veep has won the last three awards for best comedy series. Critically acclaimed shows aren’t the only thing in decline on broadcast television. Everything else is, too. Out of 78 prime-time broadcast series that aired in both 2016 and 2017, only one—ABC’s The Bachelor—increased its viewership among people under 50.
So, what exactly is the larger significance of Hulu’s win?
As a first-order effect, one should expect Hulu to spend more money on prestige dramas and other expensive shows. Hulu senior vice president Craig Erwich told New York Magazine that he wanted to use The Handmaid’s Tale—“the most-viewed launch of a show in [Hulu’s] history”—to build the network’s roster of dramas. “If you look at the history of entertainment, often there can be a show that defines a service, but it does not itself make the service,” he said. “Because you have to continue to follow up.”
Hulu’s redoubled attempts to pad their roster will create even more competition in the crowded market for prestige drama, adding to what is already a glut of cinematic television. A superabundance of expensive television shows is good news for streaming networks that are supported by subscriptions, since each new show offers another reason for unconvinced viewers to sign up for the service. But it’s bad news for networks that are supported by advertising, since more shows divided by a stable population means fewer viewers per show. Prestigious awards alone might not cause viewers to cut the cord. But if they contribute to a growing sense that most must-see television is on streaming services, it weakens the pay-TV product and encourages future cord-cutters.
There’s also a notable demographic split: Americans over 65, who broke for Trump by an 8 point margin, are watching more traditional television than ever. Americans under 30, who voted for Clinton by an 18-point margin, have reduced their traditional television viewing time by 50 percent since the Great Recession. And the divide showed at Sunday’s Emmy’s. The show wasn’t just a historic moment for these streaming services. It was also an extended roasting of President Trump, from Stephen Colbert’s monologue, to Sean Spicer’s appearance, to many, many presentations and thank-you speeches that skewered the president. In an age of hyper-polarization, Americans can’t even share television anymore.


When it premiered in the U.K. in August, Peter Kosminsky’s four-part miniseries The State capped a summer that had seen two of the worst terrorist events in recent British history: a bombing at an Ariana Grande concert in Manchester that killed 22 people and wounded 250, and an attack near London Bridge in which eight died and 48 were injured. Both acts were claimed by the Islamic State, the militant group in Iraq and Syria that an estimated 850 British nationals have left home to join. So Kosminsky, the writer and director behind the period piece Wolf Hall and the factual drama The Government Inspector, was wary about how viewers might receive The State, which dramatizes the experience of life inside ISIS for the new British recruits. On the one hand, he’s humanizing people who sign up to commit horrific acts in the name of Islam. On the other, he’s contributing to a media culture that tends to disproportionately portray Muslims as terrorists.
The balancing act required of The State was near-impossible—to create a deeper understanding of the lives of the men and women who join ISIS without either lionizing them or demonizing a whole religion. But the series, which airs in the U.S. on the National Geographic Channel over two nights on Monday and Tuesday, has somehow pulled it off. Kosminsky’s drama is a cautionary tale first and foremost, but one that probes the alienation and nihilism that, he feels, define the majority of extremists. “These are groups of people with a very absolutist attitude to society who want to tear it down and replace it,” he told me recently. “But they’re also looking for a place where they feel they can belong.”
The Best Film About Islamic Terrorists Is a Comedy
The State follows four primary characters, all amalgams based loosely on real people who joined ISIS. Jalal (Sam Otto) and Ziyaad (Ryan McKen) are schoolfriends from London who decide to travel to Syria after Jalal’s older brother is killed fighting there. Shakira (Ony Uhiara) is a young doctor and single mother who hopes to help save the lives of ISIS soldiers, and who brings her 9-year-old, Isaac (Nana Agyeman-Bediako), to the caliphate. Ushna (Shavani Cameron) is a doe-eyed teenager who dreams of being a “lioness” wife to ISIS fighters she mythologizes like boy-banders. At the beginning of the first episode, which sees all four embark on their respective journeys to Syria, Ushna comically navigates her bright pink suitcase through wire fences and over fields to enter ISIS territory.
Kosminsky’s goal in creating the series wasn’t explicitly uncovering how fundamentalism takes root—he explored that subject in 2007’s Britz, which starred Riz Ahmed and Manjinder Virk as British Muslims who end up on different ends of the political spectrum. With The State, he wanted a more thorough sense of what happens once people cross the border, and their conviction runs up against reality. So it’s there that his story really starts, as Shakira and Ushna are taken to one house for female members, and Jalal and Ziyaad to another for men. Kosminsky and his research team spent months poring through public records and interviewing people who’d returned home after traveling to Syria, although he declines to talk about the latter, since they were interviewed on background and occupy precarious legal territory. The characters might be composites, chosen to represent the kinds of people he kept encountering in his research, but the events in the show are all real.
What’s notable in the first episode is that even though there are early signs the four new recruits are headed for disaster, all of them seem delighted by their new home, and by the sense of inclusion they feel. The closing scene, which depicts the male recruits cheering and hugging each other, and the female recruits sitting down together to eat dinner, smiling and laughing, is accompanied by rousing string music. It’s the most provocative moment in the series, simply for how momentarily rosy a portrait it paints of a group Kosminsky describes as a “death cult.” But he felt it was necessary to emphasize the appeal of ISIS to disaffected citizens, most of whom only have a tenuous relationship with Islam. “People contemplating going to Syria are people with no sense of investment in our society,” he said. “They feel very apart from it, and more importantly, they feel a sense of disgust at our society … And they’re looking for a band of brothers or sisters, or a place where they will be welcomed, [where they] don’t feel like they have to hide or make excuses for their faith.”
At a private screening of The State in July, Kosminsky was asked whether he was concerned about humanizing ISIS in the wake of two horrific attacks carried out in its name. “It doesn’t do any service to people who’ve suffered at the hands of ISIS to pretend that all the people who go over there are clinically insane,” he said. His characters are delusional to different extents, but they’re not sadists. And Jalal and Shakira even become audience surrogates as they’re exposed to some of the more horrific practices ISIS engages in: the rape and torture of Yazidi sex slaves and their pre-pubescent daughters, beheadings, the harvesting of organs from captured enemy fighters. Shakira, in one scene, finds her newly indoctrinated son playing football with a human head.
One of the hardest things to comprehend watching The State is what a strong-minded female doctor could see in ISIS that would compel her to endanger both her own and her son’s lives. Uhiara’s performance as Shakira is phenomenal, even more so given she’s often limited to using her eyes, since her character is veiled. But Shakira’s sense of medical ethics, and her commitment to saving lives, seem directly opposed to both the tenets and the practices of ISIS. “What I was trying to do was show a kind of battle between the head and the heart,” Kosminsky said. “In her head, she’s rationalized this. She believes in the concept of the caliphate, a perfect place for Muslims that she can help build. But her heart is protesting in the most violent way imaginable.”
By the end of the fourth and final episode, any illusions have been dispelled. The atrocities portrayed in The State are well documented by now, and hard to ignore even for the four recruits themselves. What is surprising about the series, though is the insight it seems to offer into extremist groups all over the world: Scenes where women brutally discipline each other while veiled from head to foot have echoes of the recent Hulu series The Handmaid’s Tale, itself based on history; the sense of raging nihilism that Jalal and Ziyaad feel at the beginning of the series brings to mind the alt-right. The State, while a meticulously researched and reportorial series about life inside ISIS, ends up being a parable about isolation and disaffection. It’s not a cheerful ending, but redemption for these characters isn’t the point. It’s trying to understand them, Kosminsky would argue, that matters.


The Emmy Awards have always been a solid arbiter of when trends in the TV industry are here to stay. When HBO got a Best Comedy Series nomination for its fledgling spoof of a talk show, The Larry Sanders Show, in 1993, it was a sign that the network’s move into scripted programming was destined for success. When Michael Chiklis was named Best Actor in a Drama for FX’s The Shield in 2002, it signaled a breakthrough for original shows on basic cable, which had been largely derided as also-rans. With streaming television, the latest and largest revolution, the Emmys have been quick to respond, showering shows like House of Cards and Transparent with attention. But none had ever won a Best Series trophy until Sunday night, when Hulu’s The Handmaid’s Tale made history.
For Netflix, its rival’s victory has to sting a little. When the company, just a few years removed from solely operating as a DVD mail-rental service, announced its first original series House of Cards in 2011, it was seen as little more than a gimmick. Before the show launched, Netflix’s Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos wasn’t even sure if streaming series would be eligible for the Emmys, since they never aired on broadcast television. But House of Cards was an instant success with the TV awards body, garnering a slew of nominations (it’s been shortlisted for Best Drama for each of its five seasons), and more importantly, providing instant prestige to a tricky new format.
Why Netflix Is Releasing So Many New Shows in 2018
It was the triumph of House of Cards at the 2013 Emmys (and, the year after, Orange Is the New Black) that drew impressive creators to streaming networks, and convinced big actors to sign on for shows that would only be available to paying subscribers online and would never even generate ratings data. Since breaking through in 2013, Netflix has netted 14 nominations in the Drama and Comedy Series categories in total—for House of Cards, Orange Is the New Black, Stranger Things, Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, Master of None, and The Crown. The last of those was hotly tipped to do well at the Emmys this year because of its broad appeal to voters—a period piece in the style of Masterpiece Theatre about the British monarchy.
But in the end, the more searing and topical Handmaid’s Tale ran the board Sunday, collecting trophies for Directing, Writing, Lead Actress (Elisabeth Moss), Supporting Actress (Ann Dowd), and Guest Actress (Alexis Bledel). Though Netflix got some solid wins, like a Best Supporting Actor award for John Lithgow in The Crown and Best Writing for Master of None, it ended up losing the top prize to a show that it turned down a few years ago (though Sarandos said The Handmaid’s Tale “wasn’t in the creative form that it is today,” likely referring to an earlier draft of the pilot script).
The Best Drama win is a huge victory for Hulu, which has struggled to define itself with the same brand of quality Netflix established right out of the gate. Its original series, like The Path, Difficult People, and Casual, remain mostly niche hits. The network’s early approach was to greenlight low-budget comedies like Deadbeat or The Wrong Mans, often as co-productions with Europeans networks, but almost all of those shows have been canceled. With The Handmaid’s Tale, based on Margaret Atwood’s novel and featuring a talented cast including Moss, Dowd, and Samira Wiley, Hulu finally has a critical and award-winning hit that can draw in subscribers.
It’s a necessary approach in the streaming era, one Netflix leapt on quickly after recognizing that its back catalog of licensed programming couldn’t last forever (indeed, shows like 30 Rock and How I Met Your Mother are expiring and will leave the platform next month). To retain subscribers, the companies have to offer viewers something they can’t get anywhere else—and The Handmaid’s Tale is exactly that. Hulu had been lagging behind Netflix and Amazon in the original-series department, but just one hit (like Amazon had with Transparent) is enough to change that.
Until this year, streaming TV had remained an interloper at the Emmys, usually netting just one or two nominations in the Original Series categories. This year, a majority of nominated dramas (three from Netflix, one from Hulu) were streaming shows. Within a few years, that’ll likely become the norm, especially since HBO has already become a quasi-streaming network of its own, offering its shows to subscribers in online-only form for $15 a month. The Handmaid’s Tale breakthrough might have been expected, but it’s still significant—and it’s only the beginning of a major television revolution.


This post contains light spoilers through Season 6 of Veep.
“I’m out of a job,” David Mandel joked from the Emmy Awards stage on Sunday evening, as he accepted the statue for Best Comedy Series on behalf of Veep. “I guess we all are,” the HBO comedy’s showrunner added, motioning to the cast and crew assembled behind him—“so if anyone hears anything, I’m looking for movie work, but I’ll do television.”
Mandel was overstating the case just a little: While Veep, the political satire for which he serves as a writer as well as an executive producer, announced that its upcoming season, the show’s seventh, will be its last, he and his team are still very much employed: They’re currently planning that final season, set to air in 2018, and with it the fate of Selina Meyer, that perpetually powerful underdog, and the powerful underdogs in her orbit. Just before the Emmys, Megan Garber spoke with Mandel about how that work is going—about the show’s sixth season, just out on DVD, and about what it’s like to make a show about the American presidency during a time when, as so many people joked during the Emmys telecast, the White House can seem like its own Comedy Series/Drama Series/Reality Competition Program. The conversation below has been edited and condensed.
Megan Garber: You’ve said before that any similarities between Veep and the politics of the real world are usually coincidental—that you’ve made an effort to maintain the integrity of the alternate world you’ve helped to create. Will you keep to that separation in the final season, focusing on thematic overlaps rather than specific ones?
David Mandel: It’s always going to be thematic. And it’s always going to be its own world. For all I know, in Veepworld, at the 1980 convention, Reagan and Ford figured things out, and Ford was the vice president in ’80, and everything was different. Maybe that’s where the time-streams split. Either way, there will continue to be no Donald Trump character in the show, no appearances by any real politicians or real media people. But if there’s anybody on the show who seems like somebody … there are probably reasons for that.
And while you can’t ignore the changes of the last election, I also think that if you go back to 2008, you can already see the way campaigns, campaigning, and elections have changed. So I think there’s an opportunity now for us to dig into all of that.
MG: What in particular changed then, do you think? The rise of social media, that kind of thing?
DM: Social media. All the voter anger. A lot of these “What is an insider? What is an outsider?” questions. And also the idea that people can have just multiple interpretations of the same person. And the hate that has been bubbling up since 2008. I think that’s all interesting.
MG: Are there particular places you look to for inspiration when you’re thinking about how to consider those ideas as comedy?
DM: We do a lot of just looking at history. There’s so much, dare I say, real stuff that has happened. And we have wonderful advisors from both sides of the aisle who have worked on campaigns and for campaigns. In some cases, we’ve met with actual candidates. So we really run the gamut with our research, and in some ways our stories are amalgamations and slightly different versions of things that have happened in reality. I’m a fan of nonfiction. I’m a fan of history. I find that, by looking to the past, we can see some really interesting things.
MG: Have you read What Happened?
DM: I haven’t read it yet. I’ve read the excerpts. But let’s just say I’m well-versed in Shattered, so.
MG: I realize this is not a major coincidence, as coincidences go, but: In the introduction to What Happened, Clinton mentions that she wrote much of the book at her dining-room table, at her house in New York. And in the acknowledgements, she talks about the staffers who worked with her to write it, and she describes them sitting in her living room, writing and editing. Reading that, I couldn’t help but think of Selina, writing her own memoir at … her dining-room table. In New York. Surrounded by her trusty staffers.
DM: You know, especially when it comes to Hillary, it’s this funny thing. Sometimes I think it’s very exciting, when real life sort of hews to what we’ve done on the show—but then sometimes I think it blurs a lot of things for people. They go, “Oh, Hillary did this,” and “Selina did this”—and, “therefore, Selina equals Hillary.” And that’s the part that drives me crazy. Clinton lost, and everyone goes, “Oh, they’re doing that story now.” And it’s like, “No, we did that years ahead!” The show was created in a vacuum that had nothing to do with Hillary Clinton, and it continues to have nothing to do with Hillary Clinton.
MG: I actually hadn’t realized until recently how early the Selina-out-of-office idea had solidified for you, and how long you’d been planning for the show to explore what it means not just to have power, but to lose it. And you’ve also mentioned that there have been jokes you’ve cut specifically because they might appear to be overly derivative of real-world events—even though you wrote them before the event happened in reality. I’m thinking of Trump jokes, in particular.
DM: Right—but also, there have been only one or two of those in a season of 10 episodes jam-packed with jokes. And then someone writes an article, and the headline emphasizes the changed joke. I mean, the notion that we had to change a joke because it was too close to Donald Trump is true. But think about the number of jokes we do in an episode—percentage-wise, you’re talking less than 1 percent of content. I understand why that’s very exciting to reporters, but it’s not particularly exciting to us.
MG: Very fair! But to be a little meta about that, one of the things that interests me about this moment is the new fluidity that can exist between creators and audiences, and the way shows function not just as art, but as ideas—which can often mean fodder for thinkpieces, that kind of thing. Do you read the pieces written about Veep, and do you respond to that audience analysis of the show? Or do you try to keep the show contained to your own creativity and your own desires for it?
DM: I don’t particularly respond. I mean, sometimes I read the reviews, and go, “Great, they see what I want them to see.” And sometimes I read them and go, “Nope, that’s wrong.” But, you know, what are you going to do about it? I am surprised sometimes—or not necessarily surprised, but there are things that I think to myself, like, “Oh, I wonder if someone will do something about this fact or this story”—little bits and pieces of things that are taken from real life. And people rarely do, which I’m always surprised by. And then I wonder why not. I’m not saying we made such a wonderfully obscure reference, but I do wonder, “Maybe people don’t know that story.” I get curious about that kind of thing.
MG: Are you thinking of anything in particular?
DM: I thought, last year, Sherman Tanz was a little bit of a quasi-Mercers-meet-Sheldon Adelson—I thought someone might have discussed it. But it’s more a curiosity than anything else. Just like, “What are people getting, or not getting?” And at the same time, while I’m curious, it doesn’t change anything. The notion of changing what you’re doing or rewriting because of what people say or think—it’s like how you get those Star Wars prequels, I guess. All of the sudden there’s a lot of Boba Fett clones.
MG: Something we’ve been interested in at The Atlantic is the broad question of what art can do at this moment, the political role that art can play in a time of turmoil. Do you have anything like that in the back of your mind as you’re going about the writing process?
DM: Maybe a little. But at some point or another, it’s a comedy. You’re not trying to change the world. But I do think the show has a lot of interesting things to say about political power. That’s what the show, to me, is really about: power. Who has it, who wants it, what they’ll do to get it—all of those things. That’s Selina in a nutshell. And obviously, because of what it has to say about power, the show talks a lot about hypocrisy, both in the government and beyond. And, with all that, I guess some part of me hopes that someone’s eyes will be opened to something through the show. But we’re trying not to be on a high horse.
And we enjoy pointing out the hypocrisy on both sides. So it’s not about Trump, and it’s not-not about Trump, if that makes any sense. Technically Trump is on one side, yes, but he’s not really on a side. And on the more liberal, Democratic side there can certainly be a lot of self-aggrandizement, and it’s very fun to take our shots at that, as well. I pride myself on the show really being about the both-sides abuses of power—both sides not really being about anything.
MG: Can I take that as confirmation that Selina’s party will never be revealed on the show?
DM: Never. Even in the episodes that are not written, you’re never going to know. It’s part of the show. Another thing the show prides itself on is that people from both sides enjoy it. The show has many a Republican fan, and I hope that means something to people who maybe have their own conceptual notion of what a Hollywood show about politics might be. We’re not that.
MG: Speaking of negative spaces, I have to ask you about Jonah. I love that you and the other writers keep a running list of insults for him. And it’s a small tragedy to think that the ones that don’t air will be lost to history. But, meanwhile: What’s your current favorite of the Jonah-insults that have aired so far?
DM: I was quite fond, last season, of an insult that didn’t even have a curse in it. It was when Furlong told Jonah to—I can’t remember the exact line, but told him to stop biting James Bond’s cable-car wire. Which really made me laugh. I was a big fan of the Roger Moore James Bond movies. I didn’t write the joke, but the allusion to Richard Kiel’s Jaws character made me laugh. And I think in its own very strange way, it bothered Tim [Simons, the actor who plays Jonah] a lot. Which made it doubly funny.


When opponents of the president talk about “normalizing” an abnormal administration, they are talking about the sort of thing that took place onstage Sunday night at the Emmys: Sean Spicer, Donald Trump’s first White House press secretary, showed up and made a joke about one of his false claims.
The night otherwise had been a showcase of Hollywood’s liberal leanings as applied to 2017. Stephen Colbert’s intro song and monologue sounded the alarm about global warming, Russian meddling in American politics, and police violence in cute but cutting fashion. “I’d like to vote for Selina Meyer, she’s pretty foxy,” he sang, referencing Julia Louis-Dreyfus’s Veep character. “Imagine if your president was not beloved by Nazis.”
But soon after, Colbert posed the question of how many people were watching the Emmys. The answer came in the form of Spicer’s cameo. The Republican operative wheeled out a podium like the one Melissa McCarthy used in her SNL impression of him. In a mock-stern voice, he announced: “This will be the largest audience to witness an Emmys, period, both in person and around the world!”
*Sean Spicer Is Back* pic.twitter.com/Qfpomd5r9q
There were two ways to read the joke. Charitably: This was a mea culpa, with Spicer tacitly admitting to the whopper he told about Inauguration Day crowds by telling what seemed like a whopper about the Emmys. It was Spicer amplifying the critique that McCarthy’s impression already made of him as a bullheaded, unrepentant fibber.
Less charitably: This was a neutral pop-culture reference, evincing as much of a point of view as someone coming out and quoting Daenerys Targaryen would have had. The Hollywood establishment, in overwhelming part, likes to present itself as in opposition to the Trump administration. But turning the PR guy for that administration into just another character in the entertainment landscape, a lovable provider of quips and shticks, flattens the moral dimensions of the national debate. It says that, deep down, politics is just sport, just drama. Which then undercuts the anti-Trump stands made on the Emmys stage.
Women Won Big at the 2017 Emmys
Many viewers were quick to air discomfort with the Spicer bit. “There’s nothing funny about the damage [Spicer] assisted in planning, defended, & celebrated when he worked in The White House,” tweeted the activist DeRay McKesson. The actor and former Obama adviser Kal Penn wrote, that Spicer “can normalize himself in good fun, but he still passionately advocated against human rights, health care, & American values.” Yet the stigma was apparently not so serious that Spicer couldn’t hold court at the post-Emmys parties. “He could barely eat at the Governor’s Ball, he was so popular,” a CNN source said.
CNN’s reporting also noted that the Spicer cameo was Colbert’s idea: “He and his producers knew there would be blowback. … But Colbert thought it would be funny and surprising, and that’s what mattered most.” The tension between the desire for the shocking laugh and the desire to maintain a real critique will only mount in the coming months and years. Last week, Spicer appeared on Jimmy Kimmel Live!, leading my colleague David Frum to write, “As former Trump staff seek to integrate themselves into American civic and business life, it will be important to evaluate which of them can be rehabilitated—and which have compromised themselves in ways that cannot be redeemed.” Already, the short-lived White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci has landed gigs co-hosting The View and TMZ on TV, where he, no doubt, can be let in on the jokes about him.
Backstage after the Emmys, Alec Baldwin was asked about the propriety of Spicer’s appearance. “Spicer obviously was compelled to do certain things that we might not have respected, that we might not have admired, that we might have been super-critical of, in order to do his job,” Baldwin replied. “But I’ve done some jobs that are things that you shouldn’t admire or respect me for either. So he and I have that in common, I suppose.” The obvious truth about that comparison is that Baldwin is an entertainer and Spicer was a public servant, held to a different standard and capable of more significant lapses. Or maybe not, as it turns out.


Five years ago, I got an email from two Hollywood producers who wanted to turn my first novel, Carrie Pilby, into a movie. I was thrilled, but reminded myself not to expect much. After all, in the years since the book’s publication in 2003, two other production companies had paid me a few thousand dollars each to option the rights for a year, and nothing had come of it. Should I really fantasize about my characters living and breathing on the big screen?
The novel tells the story of the nerdy 19-year-old Carrie, who graduated from Harvard three years early and has no idea how to date or make friends in New York. It was published in the middle of the “chick lit” craze, when offbeat single-gal books like Bridget Jones’s Diary and The Girls’ Guide to Hunting and Fishing were taking over the publishing industry. Luckily, reviewers said mine was one of the more original novels in the genre, and it went on to sell 74,000 copies worldwide. But nearly a decade later, I was struggling with revisions to a new book, still living in a tiny apartment in the town I’d moved to after college, and about to turn 40. I really wanted my writing to reach a new audience. Actually, I really wanted to be able to afford furniture.
Every other author I knew who’d dealt with Tinseltown had emerged disappointed. One novelist friend whose single-girl book came out around the same time as mine saw the rights quickly gobbled up by producers, who then nabbed Lindsay Lohan to star. My friend waited for the movie to happen for more than a decade—then wound up writing a novel about an author who waits for her book to become a movie. Another colleague, a best-selling novelist, saw her project green-lit and script completed, but the project fell apart when, supposedly, two of the main producers became romantically involved and ran off together. Neither story was a complete tragedy; the authors got a little extra publicity for their books and some option money, usually $500 to $5,000 for each year the producers held the rights. But these stories had taught me to manage my expectations.
Fortunately for me, things worked out the third time: The film adaptation of Carrie Pilby finally came out this month on Netflix after a limited theatrical run in April. The movie stars the British actress Bel Powley (who had won raves for her lead performance in the 2015 indie favorite The Diary of a Teenage Girl), alongside Nathan Lane, Gabriel Byrne, Vanessa Bayer, Jason Ritter, William Moseley, and Colin O’Donoghue. As I (still) work to finish my new teen novel, I’ve been answering a lot of questions: Why did it take so long to make the movie? Am I happy with how it all turned out? And most of all, why aren’t I rich? The truth is, so much has to align when adapting a book for the screen that it’s practically a miracle when it works out. And even though this strange process hasn’t left me wealthy, it’s been fascinating and rewarding to watch it unfold from start to finish.
* * *
I wrote Carrie Pilby when I was a frustrated, single 20-something living in Hoboken, New Jersey. I had finished several young-adult novels that agents rejected as “too slow,” so one Friday night I penned a funny rant that eventually turned into a book. I sent a few chapters to literary agencies in New York, ultimately drawing the interest of Cheryl Pientka, a relatively new agent. When she submitted the novel to publishers, she also passed it along to a film agent in L.A. who had worked with a lot of adaptations, and that agent mailed the manuscript out to various producers.
Then came my first two (failed) encounters with Hollywood. Early on, a film company optioned the book to adapt it into a TV series, paying me $5,000 to hold onto the rights for a year. The project never came to fruition (though I still think Carrie Pilby would make a great show). A few years later, I struck a similar deal with Disney, but again, nothing emerged. Still, my experience seemed like the norm, considering the vast majority of properties that get optioned for TV or film never actually get made.
My third chance came in 2012, when I got an email from Suzanne Farwell, who had produced It’s Complicated and The Holiday. She told me she had partnered with the independent film producer Susan Johnson (Mean Creek), who was ready to direct her first feature. So I signed a contract to give them the rights for a year, and then went back to work at my full-time community newspaper job in Hoboken, editing a story about pooper-scooper laws.
Only this time, things started happening after I signed the contract—albeit slowly. Even making an independent film for less than $5 million takes a lot of meetings with investors. There are six major studios in Hollywood, meaning only a few companies have the budget to produce, distribute, and publicize films themselves: These studios raked in 84 percent of the box-office gross in 2016. With more than 700 films released domestically in theaters last year, and more heading to other platforms and festivals, that’s a lot of competition for a limited pool of resources. But Johnson and Farwell had new technology in their favor. In 2013, they jumpstarted the project by doing what Johnson had done with prior indie films: launching a Kickstarter campaign to raise seed money.
What Netflix Can Offer Shonda Rhimes
The month-long effort exceeded its original $50,000 goal, raising more than enough to land a screenwriter—in this case, Kara Holden (Meant to Be). It was unusual and exciting to have both a female director and female screenwriter: In its first report on the subject in 2015, the Directors Guild of America found women make up just 6.4 percent of feature-film directors, while 13 percent of writers on the 250 top grossing domestic films last year were women. My contract didn’t award me any creative control over the script; most book authors don’t get much leverage unless you’re as successful as E.L. James or Stephen King. But in this case, the director and producers were enthusiastic about the book and had done great work, so I had to have a little faith.
Johnson was kind enough to send me drafts of the script for feedback anyway. Holden kept most of the main storylines intact, while enriching and fleshing out others. I found it satisfying, in one case, to see a manipulative male character get his just deserts, since the book had left the outcome unresolved.
Once the filmmakers had a finished script in hand, they could attract talent. From 2013 to 2015, a slew of respected actors came on board, including the leads Powley and Lane. But there still were months when it seemed like nothing would happen. As with any creative project, one change could scuttle the whole thing at the last second—an actor’s scheduling conflict, funds drying up, a similar project coming out at the same time. Then came news that gave the movie the push it needed: Powley had a long line of projects set up for 2016, so production needed to start by the end of 2015. Finally, we had our deadline.
* * *
On an afternoon before Thanksgiving, I left work, took a bus across the Hudson River, and stepped into an alternate universe: a production office that the filmmakers set up on the 23rd floor of a Manhattan skyscraper. A costume designer, set designers, producers, and accountants ran through a hallway wielding outfits, props, schedules, and scripts. It was humbling to meet them and surreal to spy receipts on a desk billed to Carrie Pilby. The office was bare-bones, with storyboards taped to the walls. Someone had strung Christmas lights across a Macintosh computer. They were handcrafting a movie.
After five years of raising money (including a climactic last-minute phone call to secure the last few thousand dollars), holding auditions, revising scripts, and cobbling together wardrobe and sets, the actual filming took only 20 days. Once a week for a month, I left my office to visit the set for a few hours. On the first day, cameras were crammed into a small building that was to be Carrie’s apartment; most of the crew had to watch the action on a monitor in a different room. To my surprise, everyone seemed relaxed, confident, and upbeat. “We’re happy,” Johnson explained.
Like the crew, the actors were very kind when I met them. When I was introduced to Lane, the Broadway legend showed me his copy of the book, marked up, and said dramatically, “It’s a beautiful book, and I think it’s going to be a beautiful movie.” I thanked him and said I was sure it would be. Filming was followed by six months of editing, including adding sound effects and the score, which was composed, to my delight, by Michael Penn of Boogie Nights.
While millions of dollars are spent on a film’s production and post-production, there’s another, crucial step—getting the finished product to viewers. The industry has changed drastically in the last few years, with some films going straight to Netflix and other digital platforms. The fate of indie movies in particular is often determined at festivals. There, distributors see a trailer or the finished product and decide how much money to invest and where to release it; they can speak with filmmakers and gauge audience and critic interest.
Almost exactly a year ago, Carrie Pilby debuted at the Toronto International Film Festival, a launchpad for several Oscar-winning projects including Silver Linings Playbook and American Beauty. I made the trip to see the film screened before 1,500 people. It had been apparent to me during the process that the filmmakers really “got” the book, turning my 400 pages into a heartfelt 90-minute movie. Sitting in the audience, listening to the crowd laugh and applaud, it was clear to me that the audience “got” the film. And the next day, I was pleased to read a four-star review in The Guardian calling Carrie Pilby an “ambitious, upbeat, and surprising comedy.”
The film had a weeklong theatrical run in April, thanks to the Sony distributor The Orchard, and it went to digital platforms soon after. I was surprised: I’d hoped Carrie Pilby would be in theaters longer, but large-scale openings are relatively rare for indie films. While many people still love the cinema experience, and 18 to 24 year olds went to the movies an average of 6.5 times last year, up slightly from 2015—29 percent of adults and children spent 2016 without making a theater trip. In the last few years, Netflix has inked deals with film-industry bigwigs like Adam Sandler, Martin Scorsese, and the Coen brothers to release their projects on the streaming service. I’ve been hearing from a whole new audience now that the film is on Netflix.
Following the premiere of Carrie Pilby, it seems most people I talk to are still curious about the whole money aspect. The fact is, book authors rarely become wealthy from movie deals. When the screen rights are sold (or when the option is “exercised”), the writer often gets a sum equal to about 2.5 percent of the budget. Keep in mind indie films are only made for a few million dollars. There are sometimes monetary bonuses if a big studio signs on, but after 10 to 15 percent agent fees and then taxes, the resulting sum is often less than six figures. However, I am now quite rich in inspiration, which helps as I put the last touches on that teen novel and a funny memoir.
In the years before I sold Carrie Pilby, when I was struggling through my 20s, I used to read about people my age making it big quickly and seethe with jealousy. But most artistic and entrepreneurial folks I know have been forging on for two or three decades, project by project, small victory after small victory. Even two of the actors in the film told me they still feel like they have to fight to get roles. It’s the slow, steady steps that lead to realizing a creative dream. As it turns out, occasionally there are happy endings in Hollywood. With dedication, passion, an ability to withstand rejection, and a little luck, it’s possible to be an overnight success in just under 20 years.


Colin Kaepernick Has a Job
Rembert Browne | Bleacher Report
“As a black man with a black biological father and a white biological mother, adopted by loving white parents who raised him in a majority white town to become a star three-sport athlete, a God-fearing Christian, and a model citizen, this went well beyond the experience of a privileged American jock. This was a unique finesse, somewhere between Orenthal and Obama.”
The Battle for Blade Runner
Michael Schulman | Vanity Fair
“How did a movie marked by infighting, artistic compromise, and commercial failure manage to burrow its way into pop-culture immortality? Much of the answer lies with Ridley Scott, whose hyper-detailed imaginative vision was matched only by his Draconian means of realizing it. It would be wrong, though, to call Blade Runner an auteurist masterpiece—it’s also a mess.”
Michael Keaton: ‘There Was a Lot of Bad Taste in the ’90s and I Contributed to That’
Hadley Freeman | The Guardian
“He looks strikingly different from the man I have spent four decades watching on screen: He has the trim, spry build of a wiry woodsman rather than a 66-year-old actor, thanks to half a lifetime spent in rural Montana, fishing and hunting. His walk is reminiscent of a rooster’s strut, with his chest puffed out and a bounce on his toes; that swagger we saw in 2014’s Birdman ... was not a put on, it turns out.”
Graydon Carter and Film Festivals: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
The Art of Space Art
Kastalia Medrano | The Paris Review
“Most objects in space are either so faint or so distant that even the newest generation of telescopes can’t return images that do them aesthetic justice. Hence the value of artists, who can extrapolate scientific findings into fantastical craters and overlarge moons, their colors dark with science-fiction vibrancy.”
On Set With This Is Us: TV’s Feel-Good Megahit Ups the Stakes in Season 2
Lacey Rose | The Hollywood Reporter
“The development pipeline already is being clogged with self-consciously soulful imitations as rivals looks to reverse-engineer its success, but replicating This Is Us won't come easy. Some credit the show's evocative tone for helping it to cut through, others its pitch-perfect casting. The only piece everyone, including [the creator Dan] Fogelman, seems to agree on is its significance as a cultural antidote.”
Tears of a Crazy Clown
Judy Berman | The Baffler
“Human nature, and carving real human beings out of Twin Peaks’s caricatures, turned out to be one of The Return’s central concerns. As the season progressed, it shattered any lingering impression of [David] Lynch as a detached, self-consciously quirky sadist, chuckling mirthlessly over the rottenness at the core of American life and the ignorance of any person who fails to see it.”
The Inevitability of Taylor Swift. Ready For It?
Kelsey McKinney | The Village Voice
“Unlike with the release of 1989 in 2014 ... Swift is no longer perceived as a sweet pop darling. In place of the critical and popular thrill over her new album, there has been a soft collective groan. The world, for many, feels so polarized, so dire, that cute and clever doesn’t cut it anymore.”
Asking Questions Louis C.K. Doesn’t Want to Answer
Cara Buckley | The New York Times
“‘There are these people in the world that we all talk about, and we want to know that they’re all good or they’re all bad,’ Louis C.K. said. ... ‘The uncomfortable truth is, you never really know. You don’t know anybody.’ ... It’s an observation that raises the question of how well do audiences know Louis C.K., a man who has built his career out of relentlessly, albeit thoughtfully, mining collective discomforts and taboos.”


Don’t Miss
‘What More Do You Need’—Megan Garber reads What Happened, Hillary Clinton’s latest memoir, in which the politician has become cautiously diaristic.
The Business of Creativity
Why I’m Still Trying to Get a Book Deal After 10 Years—Anjali Enjeti explains her dedication to becoming a published author and how her approach has changed over the last decade.
Marjorie Liu on the Road to Making Monstress—Lenika Cruz interviews the writer about working for Marvel, the loneliness of novel-writing, and why her epic-fantasy comic series is mostly populated by women and characters of color.
Film
Yorgos Lanthimos on His New Film The Killing of a Sacred Deer—David Sims chats with the director of The Lobster about the dark premise of his follow-up, working with stars like Colin Farrell and Nicole Kidman, and his unique sensibility.
Mother! Is a Stunning, Ferocious Head Trip—Christopher Orr watches the writer-director Darren Aronofsky’s metaphor-rich horror movie, a work of amazing ambition that’s definitely not for everybody.
Hollywood Moguls Are the New Auteurs—David Sims unpacks the news that Star Wars: Episode IX director Colin Trevorrow lost his job after clashing with the real power behind the franchise: the producer Kathleen Kennedy.
First They Killed My Father Is a Surprising, Devastating Triumph—David Sims praises Angelina Jolie’s new film, which follows the Cambodian Civil War and the brutal Khmer Rouge regime through the eyes of a young girl.
TV
Insecure and the Fiction of Possibility—Megan Garber reviews the HBO show’s Season 2 finale, which takes a Sliding Doors approach to its characters’ lives to masterful effect.
The Strange Confusion of Top of the Lake: China Girl—Sophie Gilbert thinks Elisabeth Moss, Nicole Kidman, and Gwendoline Christie star in a recurring series gone very wrong.
Darkness on the Edge of Broad City—Spencer Kornhaber says the manic-pixie yas kweens squirm under Trump in Season 4.
Better Things Is Almost Perfect Television—Sophie Gilbert calls the FX comedy-drama by Pamela Adlon one of the sharpest and most poignant shows in recent memory.
The Apolitical Politics of the Celebrity Hurricane Telethon—Spencer Kornhaber writes that amid raising $44 million, Stevie Wonder and Beyoncé blew past the question of whether it’d be divisive to talk about climate change.
Will Netflix or HBO Dominate the 2017 Emmy Awards?—Sophie Gilbert takes a look at what to expect from the 69th ceremony honoring the best of television.
Music
Princess Nokia’s Brash, Oddball Rap—Spencer Kornhaber listens to the young artist’s 1992 Deluxe, a super-fun, smart celebration of how identity is tied to culture.
The False Prophets of Protest Music—Spencer Kornhaber dismisses the political rock of members of Rage Against the Machine, Public Enemy, and Cypress Hill as seeming immediately obsolete.
Books
Jenny Zhang: ‘Tiny Stories’ Are Vital to Literature—Joe Fassler talks to the Sour Heart author about Roberto Bolaño’s “Dance Card,” humanizing minor characters through irreverence, and homing in on history’s footnotes.
A Novel That Imagines a World Without Bees—Tori Latham analyzes Maja Lunde’s climate-fiction debut, which uses species extinction to ask its human characters: What’s more important, self-interest or sacrifice?
Eka Kurniawan’s Darkly Comic Tale of Boyhood—Jane Yong Kim believes Vengeance Is Mine, All Others Pay Cash is a surreal, poignant account of a teen attempting to become a man.


There’s only one scene in First They Killed My Father that isn’t told through the eyes of Loung Ung (Sareum Srey Moch), the young daughter of a high-ranking Cambodian government official who was swept up in the terror of the Khmer Rouge’s campaign of genocide in 1975. It’s the opening montage, one cutting between footage of Richard Nixon insisting on American neutrality in the country and newsreels of the violence and bombing that spilled over into Cambodia’s borders during the Vietnam War. “This is not an invasion of Cambodia,” Nixon intones over images of burning jungles and burnt bodies on the streets of Phnom Penh, as the Rolling Stones song “Sympathy for the Devil” roars on the soundtrack.
Perhaps it’s a little on the nose, but it’s also the one freewheeling, stylish flourish director Angelina Jolie allows in her sober new film, an adaptation of Ung’s 2000 memoir of her childhood during the Khmer Rouge rule of Cambodia in the late 1970s that resulted in the deaths of close to 2 million people (a conservative estimate). First They Killed My Father, subtitled A Daughter of Cambodia Remembers, is a Khmer-language film focused on the atrocities Ung personally witnessed as she was torn from her childhood in Phnom Penh during the Cambodian Civil War, and its villains are mostly the unnamed soldiers and revolutionaries that torment her family. But before she delves into this individual story, Jolie takes great strain to make clear how this chaos was sewn, and that responsibility for Cambodia’s descent into violence lies far beyond its borders.
By the Sea: When Ennui Is Très Jolie
To this day, very few films have been made about the brutal Khmer Rouge regime, a legacy the country is still only beginning to come to grips with. The most memorable is certainly Roland Joffé’s Oscar-winning 1984 epic The Killing Fields, but that was a film centered on the American journalist Sydney Schanberg (played by Sam Waterston) and his reporting. Jolie could be accused of bringing a similar Western perspective, though she is the adoptive mother of a Cambodian son and has done extensive charity work in the country. But the triumph of First They Killed My Father is that she avoids any white-savior pitfalls, presenting Ung’s story clearly and candidly, and wisely keeping her camera trained on Srey Moch, an astonishing young first-time actor who proves a perfect conduit for the story Jolie wants to tell.
Ung is one of seven children living in relative comfort in Phnom Penh; her father (played with extraordinary grace by Phoeung Kompheak) is a government official, and when the Khmer Rouge rebels sweep into the capital, he knows he’ll be marked as a target and spirits his family into the countryside. Jolie, who co-wrote the film with Ung, does not try to over-explain every political detail of the civil war or Pol Pot’s resulting regime (a purportedly Communist government that immediately descended into dictatorial terror). First They Killed My Father is told from a child’s-eye view, with the camera frequently focusing on Ung’s open, sweet face and then cutting to whatever nightmare she’s seeing.
At two hours and 16 minutes long, the film might sound like a slog, but Jolie has no interest in drawn-out depictions of torture or execution, holding off on the sort of relentless, graphic violence she could deploy to easily drive the horror home. That’s not to say First They Killed My Father lacks gruesome imagery, but it’s usually brief and chaotic, glimpsed by Ung as she tries to flee or ignore the terror going on around her. At first, she’s living in secret with her family, who try to pose as ordinary, working-class folk to avoid the wrath of the Khmer Rouge (whose targets, aside from ethnic minorities, included anyone connected with the prior government). Later, she’s separated from them and trained as a child soldier for the ongoing civil war; Ung’s story follows her long, slow quest to reunite with her siblings.
Jolie’s masterstroke is that she never departs from the gaze of her young protagonist. There’s little sense of time passing—it could be months or years, given Ung’s inability to find any grounding in the destroyed farmland, labor camps, and military bases she’s swept through. It’s easy to understand every decision she makes to survive, even her terrifying recruitment as a soldier who lays mines in Cambodia’s dense jungle. The loss of her father (hardly a spoiler, considering the film’s title) is the film’s most profoundly restrained moment, all the more devastating for how cryptically it happens, as he does his best to hide the details of his impending fate from his children.
First They Killed My Father, which debuts on Netflix and in limited theatrical release Friday, is Jolie’s fourth film as a director and her first unambiguous triumph. Though she showed extensive visual flair in her last two movies, the war epic Unbroken and the dark, romantic drama By the Sea (a seemingly autobiographical tale that co-starred her then-husband Brad Pitt), this film matches that with a simpler, more powerful story, largely free of cliché and delivered with incredible restraint. Jolie’s clearly trying to use her brand as a Hollywood megastar to make projects with limited commercial potential and get them to the widest possible audience. But as altruistic as that effort may be, the films still have to be good to really make an impact—and First They Killed My Father is very, very good.


Protest music is thriving, if you want to hear it. A top-of-my-head assortment: Kendrick Lamar’s post-election self-interrogations, Sheer Mag’s resistance-minded retrofitting of Thin Lizzy, Vince Staples’s dizzying F.U. to the White House, and Lana Del Rey’s knowingly naïve pleas for world peace. Even the slick, chart-courting likes of Fifth Harmony have anthems about building bridges and not walls. Yet if your genre tastes or tribal affiliations or overpowering nostalgia for the WTO protests disqualify the above from being taken seriously—well, today you have the thudding debut by Prophets of Rage.
A super-group formed during the 2016 election because “dangerous times demand dangerous songs,” Prophets of Rage includes members of Rage Against the Machine (among them the effects-pedals activist Tom Morello), Public Enemy (including Chuck D, the stern embodiment of rap’s political potential), and Cypress Hill (B-Real, the squeaky stoner of “Insane in the Brain”). Their protest-artists pedigree is mostly impeccable, and their initial outings saw them reworking old hits for today’s rallies. Outside the Republican National Convention, for example, Chuck D and B-Real aimed Zack de la Rocha’s lyrics in “Killing in the Name” at newly explicit targets. Now, it was “some of those up in Congress” who were “the same that burn crosses.”
The National's Super-Political Love Songs
Eight months into the Trump administration, any temptation to call such an effort overly ham-handed has been squelched. The chorus of Prophets of Rage’s “Unfuck the World” says “no hatred / fuck racists,” and the president’s response to the Charlottesville violence has made clear that the band is not simply stating the obvious. Yet over the 12 tracks of their self-titled debut, the Prophets seem stuck in an aesthetic bunker of nostalgia and self-satisfaction—an unfortunate place from which to launch a revolution.
On the opener, “Radical Eyes,” Chuck D booms that he’s feeling “rage-ified,” and that’s a handy term for the mode the album is in. It’s a lot like Rage Against the Machine, but it’s not the real thing. Rage’s Morello, drummer Brad Wilk, and bassist Tim Commerford dutifully rebuild the sound that shook ’90s radio: sludgy low end, drums marrying James Brown and “When the Levee Breaks,” and fluorescent guitars that might make you think of a video-poker machine announcing a jackpot. But in place of de la Rocha’s agitation there’s Chuck D’s steady preaching and—a big part of the problem—B-Real’s simplistic sneer. Their forgettable verses make way for choruses that loop-the-loop over mounting squall from Morello and Public Enemy’s DJ Lord. It’s as if mere repetition and noise might alchemize words into deeds.

Such rap-rock is not, exactly, the music of these times. Are the messages current, at least? “You fell asleep and when you woke up / 45 for the win,” Chuck D says on the opener, and it’s worth noting that the line would have technically worked regardless of who prevailed last November. “By George, he’s the new Wallace,” he raps on “Hail to the Chief,” a song that doesn’t aspire to much other than further bumming out those already bummed by Trump’s election. On “Smashit,” B-Real seems annoyed at Democrats: “They forgot about Michigan / like all is magnificent.” Otherwise, the album mostly passes in a blur of vague condemnations of liars and PSA-mild calls for action: “Give a damn, evil can’t stand / When the people take a stand.”
Even the more specific songs are fangless. It might take a few listens to “Strength in Numbers” to notice the Standing Rock references amid its bumper-sticker word salad, and the flirtations with nonviolent resistance in “Fired a Shot” just come off as controversy-adverse metaphors. “Legalize Me” takes some of the faux-militant vibe of Edwin Starr’s “War” to rumble about decriminalizing pot, with B-Real mostly just listing the places where dispensaries already do business. You’re left thinking weed should be legalized so guys in Che Guevara T-shirts might more easily get high, rather than to help break the schools-to-prison pipeline. “Living on the 110,” which draws attention to the homelessness under a major Los Angeles freeway, is a highlight simply because it commits to one concrete cause.
Rage Against the Machine and Public Enemy didn’t always talk in terms of specific policies or people either. But they did have a knack for rendering society’s longstanding injustices in vivid, even shocking terms. Zack de la Rocha, a true radical, could shake the listener’s soul with images like the one in “Down Rodeo”: “I’m rollin’ down Rodeo with a shotgun / These people ain’t seen a brown-skinned man since their grandparents bought one.” Chuck D once described black alienation with brilliant candor, calling Elvis and John Wayne “straight-up racist.” He recycled that famous verse last year for Prophets of Rage’s “No Sleep Til Cleveland,” itself a rewrite of a Beastie Boys song. The fact that the results made for the best track in the Prophets of Rage catalogue suggests that these past giants of political music are just that: the past. If revolution comes by song, it will come from elsewhere.


In 2013, Netflix became the first streaming service to win a Primetime Emmy Award. That was just four years ago, but feels considerably longer in TV years—at the time, individual chapters of the show House of Cards were still commonly referred to as “webisodes,” and Netflix had a relatively paltry 30 million subscribers instead of the roughly 104 million it has today.
Today, the television landscape is completely different. Almost half of the shows nominated for best comedy or drama at the Emmys this year come from streaming services: Netflix’s Stranger Things, The Crown, House of Cards, Master of None, and Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, and Hulu’s The Handmaid’s Tale. Netflix isn’t quite the biggest player at this Sunday’s ceremony; HBO received 111 nominations, even without Game of Thrones, its flagship production, being eligible. But the streaming service almost doubled the number of nominations it received compared to last year (91 to 54). And with Netflix intent on releasing an even bigger slate of new shows in 2018, its influence will only increase.
A Shake-Up for the 2017 Emmy Nominations
For viewers, Netflix’s vast infusion of cash has contributed to a spate of exceptional television—both from the streaming service itself and from the traditional networks struggling to keep up. The trend to watch for this year is whether voters reward less conventional recent releases (FX’s Atlanta, Hulu’s The Handmaid’s Tale, Netflix’s Stranger Things, HBO’s Big Little Lies) or more traditional Emmys-friendly fare (Netflix’s The Crown, ABC’s Modern Family, Ryan Murphy’s Feud: Bette and Joan). That’s to say nothing of the shows and actors that didn’t get their due: HBO’s The Leftovers and Insecure, Amazon’s Fleabag, Starz’s The Girlfriend Experience, Oprah Winfrey’s performance in The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks.
FX’s Atlanta is one of the shows it would be gratifying to see honored on Sunday, given the ingenuity of its storytelling and the surreal but compassionate humor of its creator and star, Donald Glover. The same goes for ABC’s Black-ish, which responded to the election with a thoughtful and nuanced dissection of racism in America. But it’s entirely likely that the award for best comedy series will go to HBO’s Veep, which has been nominated for all of its six seasons, and won the last two years in a row.
The best drama category has been upended by the ineligibility of Game of Thrones (due to its later schedule in 2017), which also won the award for the last two years. It’s possible that NBC’s hit family drama This Is Us could pull off a surprise win, or that HBO’s Westworld or Netflix’s The Crown could score. But it seems most likely that either Netflix’s Stranger Things or Hulu’s The Handmaid’s Tale will ultimately triumph. This would be a significant victory for streaming TV, which hasn’t yet claimed one of the two big prizes at the Emmys.
Then there are the acting awards. Jeffrey Tambor’s performance as Maura Pfefferman on Amazon’s Transparent won him Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series in 2015 and 2016. In the Lead Actress category for comedy, it’s most likely Julia Louis-Dreyfus will win for the sixth successive year for HBO’s Veep, but if voters decide to go rogue, Jane Fonda or Lily Tomlin could triumph for Netflix’s Grace and Frankie. For Lead Actress in a Drama Series, the biggest contenders look to be Elisabeth Moss for The Handmaid’s Tale and Claire Foy for her role as Queen Elizabeth II in The Crown. Lead Actor in a Drama is anyone’s guess, with Anthony Hopkins (Westworld) and Milo Ventimiglia and Sterling K. Brown (This Is Us) seeming like strong candidates.
The limited-series acting categories seem to be where HBO still dominates. Nicole Kidman should claim the lead-actress award for her extraordinary performance as an abused wife in Big Little Lies, but Reese Witherspoon is also nominated for the same show. Jessica Lange and Susan Sarandon are also both nominated for Feud, as are Carrie Coon for Fargo and Felicity Huffman for American Crime. All six actresses have done remarkable work this year. In the lead-actor category, Riz Ahmed and John Turturro face off for HBO’s The Night Of, with Robert De Niro another contender for his role as Bernie Madoff in The Wizard of Lies. HBO could also clean up in the supporting categories, with Bill Camp and Michael K. Williams nominated for The Night Of, Alexander Skarsgard, Laura Dern, and Shailene Woodley for Big Little Lies, and Michelle Pfeiffer for The Wizard of Lies. But Stanley Tucci and Alfred Molina deserve praise, too, for their supporting roles in Feud.
The supporting categories for comedy and drama look promising for streaming services: Ann Dowd deserves to win Supporting Actress in a Drama for her role as Aunt Lydia in The Handmaid’s Tale, with Samira Wiley nominated for the same show, Uzo Aduba for Orange Is the New Black, and Millie Bobby Brown for Stranger Things (Thandie Newton has a good chance for Westworld, and This Is Us’s Chrissy Metz is a fan favorite). For comedy, Judith Light and Kathryn Hahn are both nominated for Transparent, but the award seems destined for Kate McKinnon for her work on Saturday Night Live. Alec Baldwin will also presumably win for playing Donald Trump on the same show, but in the Supporting Actor in a Drama category, John Lithgow seems to be the favorite for his role as Winston Churchill on The Crown.
Beyond that, the biggest questions are who will win for Outstanding Limited Series (likely Big Little Lies), Outstanding Television Movie (potentially The Wizard of Lies, although Netflix’s Black Mirror could win its first Emmy for “San Junipero”), and Outstanding Variety Talk Series (the Emmys’ host this year, Stephen Colbert, should rightfully win for his reenergized post-election work on The Late Show). HBO may ultimately end up the biggest winner of the night—it took 19 awards at last weekend’s Creative Arts Emmys, to Netflix’s 16 and NBC’s 9. But the real race, for Netflix, seems to be just beginning.


The novel Vengeance Is Mine, All Others Pay Cash opens simply, by stating its premise: The teenager Ajo Kawir has a bit of a hardware problem. His bird, as he puts it, “won’t stand up.” His friend Gecko knows what’s going on; it’s why he never invites Ajo Kawir to watch porn together or to “loiter in front of the post office and catcall the girls passing by.” Gecko’s father does, too; it’s why he takes his son’s friend to see a sex worker, and why he says things like, “Only guys who can’t get hard can fight with no fear of death.”
From the get-go in this story, the ups and downs of burgeoning teenage identity tangle with the warmhearted, if sometimes misguided, efforts of family and friends to solve deeply personal issues. Also from the get-go, the lens turns both inward, to Ajo Kawir’s thoughts, and outward, to a world too often preoccupied with the virility of its men. This latter focus makes sense, given that Vengeance is the work of Eka Kurniawan, the talented Indonesian author who was longlisted for the Man Booker International prize in 2016 and whose previous novels, Beauty Is a Wound and Man Tiger, have examined the deeply embedded effects of societal sexism.
With his new protagonist, Kurniawan wryly homes in on the young man’s insecurities and fixations. Ajo Kawir initially bemoans his fate. He tries all manner of wake-up remedies, from rubbing chili pepper on his penis to letting it get stung by bees. He begins to talk to it, cajoling and scolding by turns. Simultaneously, he is blossoming into a brawler ready to take on anyone with his fists, or a knife: “Even when cornered, he was the kind of fighter who’d let his opponent break his arm if it gave him the opportunity to break the other guy’s leg.” That inclination ends up getting the 19-year-old tasked with killing a gangster named Tiger.
The Lucky Ones Is No Ordinary Coming-of-Age Novel
The semi-comic, pulp-y framing lures readers into what becomes a poignant exploration of an adolescent mind lurching toward maturity. Because if the reactions to Ajo Kawir’s predicament are fairly sweet, the reason for it—seemingly, the horrific rape of a vulnerable woman by local police officers that the teen witnesses—is anything but. Ajo Kawir’s terror and guilt at watching, and at first feeling aroused by, tremendous sexual violence are matched in intensity only by his resulting anger toward influential men who see women as disposable. (His growing ability to exact physical revenge complicates the power dynamic as well.)
There’s no mistaking the moral stakes Kurniawan sets up, from the complicity of the bystander to the surrounding community’s internalization of individual violence. If the fable-esque set-up seems a bit heavy-handed, Kurniawan avoids that pitfall by wrapping his tale in warmth and candor. He captures the tender rationale of teens in the swell of adolescent transformation, showing (through the character of Gecko, who gladly loans his father to his friend) how intuitively empathetic young people can be toward each other. Ajo Kawir himself is a complicated mix of soul and physicality: He doubts his ability to satisfy a woman, even as he comes to a strange sort of peace with his body. He’s by turns forlorn, frustrated, and wise—and slowly his life unfurls in fascinating, rich ways.
Kurniawan’s unhurried, magical-realist style, which the author last used in Man Tiger—to tell the story of a man who has a female white tiger dwelling inside him—is a snug fit for the world of Vengeance. The early chapters are particularly electric, full of the sort of specialness that’s only possible through the whole assumption of kids’ perspectives, with their internal logic and low-to-the-ground vantage. And while characters aren’t fleshed out descriptively, they aren’t stick figures either. The sparseness means the occasional detail lands brightly: Readers learn in passing that Ajo Kawir devoured martial arts comics while growing up, as, apparently, did his crush Iteung, a fellow fighter he notices mimicking the language of the comics.
Vengeance is interesting formally, too: Its brief, cinematic scenes, not always chronologically ordered, build like stacked, occasionally off-kilter blocks, a visual Jenga. Kurniawan confidently drops in details without explaining them, sets readers down in medias res, and presents dream sequences as though they’re real, always shifting gears with ease. It’s to his credit (and to Annie Tucker’s simple but vibrant translation) that his experiments don’t create reader whiplash.
Such flash imagery helps bring to life the many, many fights Ajo Kawir lands in. If fists go up frequently in Vengeance, they also, it’s worth noting, belong to both enemies and lovers. A physical confrontation with Iteung leaves Ajo Kawir feeling “shattered to pieces,” while his foes get some poetic treatment as well. “Then a punch struck him squarely on the jaw,” Ajo Kawir dreams, of dueling with Tiger. “He felt himself flying, floating, and then landing on the surface of the water.”
Vengeance isn’t trying to show the fights’ beauty for beauty’s sake, but to illustrate how a boy might find them beautiful—freeing, wild, their own form of political identity and coalesced power, a way to not have control and be okay with that. That tension is, of course, part of the author’s broader point, tracing back to the rape Ajo Kawir witnesses: His yen for violence both proves and indicts the long reach of unchecked brutality. There is, Kurniawan suggests, a wisp of a line between selfish cruelty and righteous violence, between voyeurism and action, between a passionate embrace and a death grip.
In Man Tiger, Kurniawan masterfully played with time to tell a complicated family story from multiple sides. The point of that novel, as with Vengeance, is to show the insidious, trickle-down effects of men who wreak havoc with little consideration for those around them. Both works illustrate these knots of community, where propriety and rage and survival coexist, with a surprising amount of compassion—and illuminate the pain and learning of the next generation with tremendous grace.


Darren Aronofsky’s heady horror film mother! begins with a large and beautifully octagonal Victorian country house, encircled on all sides by tall grass and, beyond, by trees. There is no driveway or other obvious means of access—no evidence, really, of a world apart from this house. A young woman lives there with her older husband, a poet. She is played by Jennifer Lawrence and identified only as “mother,” though she does not yet have any children; he is played by Javier Bardem and identified as “him.” She spends her days cooking, cleaning, and meticulously restoring the house, which, we learn, had previously burned in a fire. (She is literally a “home-maker.”) He, meanwhile, spends his days brooding, fountain pen in hand, over a blank page. He was once a famous writer, but his words have abandoned him.
God's Will vs. Man's Will in Darren Aronofsky's Noah
One night, a stranger (Ed Harris) shows up on their doorstep. He says he’s a doctor, and that he’d been told the house was a bed and breakfast. It isn’t, but Bardem’s character nonetheless invites him to stay the night.  (“This house is too big for the two of us,” he declares.) To the consternation of Lawrence’s character, the two men spend the night drinking and smoking. It turns out that the stranger is a huge fan of the poet’s old work, and the latter is delighted and energized by this revelation.
The next day, a woman (Michelle Pfeiffer) knocks on the door, and explains that she is the doctor’s wife. The poet invites her, too, to stay in the house indefinitely, over his own wife’s strenuous objections. This latest newcomer, after getting high on spiked lemonade, pries unpleasantly: That’s quite an age difference between you and your husband. Why aren’t you pregnant? Are you doing your part in the bedroom? If this all seems a bit rude, trust me when I say that these impositions are nothing compared to the ones yet to come. (The door chime in this home is certainly the most ominous since Tony Soprano caught a bullet at Holsten’s ice cream parlor.) Yet the poet seems to thrive on this accumulating attention, despite the escalating shock and dismay of his devoted wife.
It would be wrong to say more about the plot of mother! except to note that what begins as a quietly bucolic fable—albeit one in which menace looms—gradually spins out into a phantasmagoric horror show, stuffed to the seams with allegory. Why do the walls of the house beat like a heart when Lawrence’s character lays her hands on them? What’s in the golden elixir that she takes for her dizzy spells? Did something shriek and flee down the drain when she plunged that clogged toilet bowl? Why is her husband so obsessed with the mysterious crystal he keeps locked away in his study?
For its first half or more, I expected mother! to be a gothic nightmare in the manner of Poe or Chambers or Lovecraft, with healthy dollops of Kafka and Rosemary’s Baby thrown in for good measure. (I was hoping for the kind of movie that Guillermo del Toro’s Crimson Peak aimed for but ultimately missed.) But Aronofsky’s ambitions are far larger and stranger, even by the standards of such previous head trips as Black Swan and Noah. This is a film of fierce and idiosyncratic intensity, a metaphor for subjects both vast and banal: on the one hand, gender roles, creativity, birth, and (as Aronofsky himself has attested) global warming; on the other, the symbiotic interplay between fandom and celebrity. Biblical allusions are woven throughout—Cain and Abel, a flood that resets the world, the birth of Christ—and the story is essentially told in two separate chapters that might as well be called testaments.
There’s a strong sense, too, of winking self-critique on Aronofsky’s part. Bardem’s emphatically male artist heaps indignity after indignity upon his wife in his craving for more fame, more love, more attention. It is, at a fictive remove, pretty much what Aronofsky does to his lead actress.
And if not for another bravura performance by that lead actress, the film might easily have collapsed under the weight of its own pretensions. Bardem and the rest of the cast are strong, but it is Lawrence’s groundedness and humanity that tether her director’s wilder fancies. It helps, too, that Aronofsky (who also wrote the screenplay) injects frequent doses of black humor into the proceedings. He never loses sight of the fact that, philosophical trappings aside, this is at its core a movie about the Worst House Guests Ever.
In the end, mother! is a film certain to be revered by some and reviled by others. And while I’d place myself mostly in the former camp, plenty of reasonable people will find themselves in the latter. This is a demanding film, and there is one grisly (though in no way gratuitous) twist near the end that will test the endurance even of those who appreciated what came before. So be forewarned: Aronofsky has made precisely the movie he set out to make. But it may very well not be the movie for you.


The category of literature known as climate fiction—“cli-fi,” as it’s known—has gotten quite crowded in recent years. Even just in the past six months, there’s been Paul Kingsnorth’s Beast, which remains hopeful about impending disaster; Lesley Nneka Arimah’s short story “What It Means When a Man Falls From the Sky,” which tackles both ecological concerns and the refugee crisis; and Ashley Shelby’s South Pole Station, which takes on climate-change denial. Into this busy field enters Maja Lunde’s novel The History of Bees. Lunde, a writer of children’s and young-adult books, pieces together a tale that makes the long-term effects of climate change the backdrop for a set of stories about familial relationships, love, and loss.
Following a simple premise—what would happen if bees disappeared?—Lunde’s novel, originally released in Norwegian in 2015, jumps back and forth, across time, between the stories of three beekeepers. The term, it should be noted, is used loosely: There’s William, a British biologist in the mid-1800s; George, a farmer in the contemporary Midwest; and Tao, a young Chinese mother in a bee-less 2098 who spends hours performing manual labor in the fields to make up for the lack of apiformes. All three are dealing with personal problems brought about by the existence—or lack—of bees in their life. But the novel smartly relies limitedly on its ecological-disaster framework and instead gains its best footing in the quiet and intimate relationships it depicts between its characters. At times, it’s easy to forget you’re reading a novel exploring the consequences of a species extinction—instead, you’ve become invested in the lives of the people whose stories it follows.
Beast Celebrates a Man's Abrupt Return to Nature
This family-drama quality stems from the fact that much of the book takes place before the Collapse, an ambiguous event that occurred over several decades, led to the obliteration of bees, and has greatly depleted the resources they help produce (crops, animal feed, and, in turn, a number of animals). Tao’s plotline is the only one that occurs completely in the post-Collapse world, one in which China’s citizens are forced to hand-pollinate trees, due to the country’s early use of pesticides. “It had paid off to be the ones who polluted the most,” Tao thinks to herself. “We were a pioneer nation in pollution and so we became a pioneer nation in pollination. A paradox had saved us.”
Tao’s story, which opens the novel, is easily the most captivating. It’s also the most urgent, because it takes place after, not before, global disaster. In addition to the stress and exhaustion brought about by her grueling work outdoors, Tao struggles to create a life for her 3-year-old son Wei-Wen, and her constant attempts to provide him the best possible education exasperate her husband Kuan, straining their relationship. When Wei-Wen mysteriously disappears, it pushes Tao and Kuan further apart. Lunde places you in Tao’s head and forces you to feel the emptiness around her:
This thing that was between us had grown to be insurmountably large. … It became almost unbearable to be in the same room. He stirred up the same thoughts again and again. The same two words. My fault, my fault, my fault.
Tao becomes so caught up in blaming herself for her son’s disappearance that she withdraws from those around her. Initially provoked by the ecological disaster, the void she feels deepens because of her lack of connectedness to those around her, and because of her belief that she alone can solve all of the problems—whether minute and personal or huge and systemic—that exist in her world.
If most of Tao’s storyline follows her attempts to discover her missing son, George’s and William’s more closely trace their irascible connections with their children. The difficulty with which the two men attempt to relate to their kids and their kids’ developing hobbies mirrors the trouble they have grasping the realities of a changing world. George, living during the beginning days of the Collapse in the United States, struggles to maintain his bees as he rejects new farming techniques meant to streamline the process of beekeeping. He’s disappointed in his son Tom, who’s recently gone off to college and seems wholly disinterested in his father’s profession, and much more drawn to pursuing a Ph.D. in writing.
George’s decided unlikability—he’s oblivious to his son’s desires and puts himself above everyone else—is clearly intentional. With his rigid self-centeredness, he serves as a foil for the bees, which are both the novel’s primary symbol and its binding narrative force. In addition to being an integral part of keeping the environment in order, “each tiny insect was subordinate to the greater whole,” as William points out early in the novel, sacrificing an individual identity for collective wellbeing. George is the complete opposite. If his verve for beekeeping drives his life, it also results in the downfall of his relationships. Lunde, in creating this unbearably stubborn character, suggests the tricky balancing act between human self-interest and sacrifice, and shows how parents can sometimes be the ones who struggle with this tension most of all.
The third storyline, William’s, works as a combination of the other two, mingling the sympathy readers may feel for Tao with the contempt they might feel for George. When first introduced, William is immobilized in bed by an overwhelming depression brought about by his lack of scientific achievement. A renewed sense of passion—both for his family and his work—becomes the driving force behind the scientist’s return to life. But, his fixations come at a cost: Determined to make new strides in the world of mid-19th century beekeeping, he becomes blind to those around him. His egocentrism and need for recognition don’t allow him to realize that “a single person’s life, … thoughts, fears, and dreams meant nothing” if they don’t “apply to us all.”
William’s inability to comprehend the communal nature of life, a quality each character shares in some way, is central to the novel’s broader point—that self-interest alone can result in both personal destruction and larger catastrophes that affect those outside of one’s immediate orbit. The book does, however, leave open the possibility of a way of life that values the collective over the individual, as bees do from the day they are born to the day they die.  
At times, the moralizing about the environment and humans’ role in global warming can come across a bit heavy-handedly. But increasing awareness of the earth’s fraught future, in the end, is not the main thing the novel is trying to do. Instead, it wants you to consider what it is you feel deeply about—whether that’s achieving fame, standing by traditions, or protecting your family—and then consider whether you would sacrifice those things for the greater good.


When the comic-book series Monstress introduces its haunted heroine, she has the look of someone just barely surviving. Maika Halfwolf is naked, missing part of an arm, wearing a metal collar, and being sold at a slave auction—a casualty in a bloody conflict between humans and Arcanics, a race of magical creatures. Of course, Maika is more than she seems. An Arcanic who looks human, she’s enraged by her mother’s death, her missing memories, and the atrocities she’s suffered. There’s also a strange, deadly power taking root in her body and mind—one she can neither understand nor control.
Written by Marjorie Liu and illustrated by Sana Takeda for Image Comics, Monstress is a sprawling epic fantasy that drops readers into the middle of a magic-filled alternate history. Described as a kind of “matriarchal Asia,” Maika’s universe is wracked by a race war and inhabited by violent witch-nuns, vicious deities, and innocent civilians—all of which is brought to life by Takeda’s exquisite manga-style, Art Deco–inspired art. Liu doesn’t ease her audience’s arrival into this intricately designed world by defining new terms or supplying a linear history of Maika’s life (the scale and complexity of the worldbuilding has earned Monstress comparisons to George R. R. Martin’s A Song of Ice and Fire books). Still, Liu and Takeda’s series differs from most genre fare, comics or otherwise, in at least one key way: There are almost no men or white characters.
The Eisner Award-nominated series is the high point thus far of Liu’s own rather unusual career path. In her mid-20s, Liu had graduated from law school and was working at a firm when the sale of her first book convinced her to switch careers. She churned out romance and fantasy novels for years before getting her first gig to write a comic for Marvel, somewhat to her surprise. “It was crazy enough to desire being a novelist,” Liu told me. “I enjoyed reading comics, but it never occurred to me to actually write them until years later.”
After a stint at Marvel working on series such as NYX, X-23, and Astonishing X-Men, Liu took a serious break before reuniting with a former colleague, Takeda, to start their own ambitious series together. Hailed when its first issue came out in 2015, Monstress saw its second volume published this summer. (While the next issue, #13, was originally slated for a fall release, it’s now being pushed until January because of how big the new story arc is.) For The Atlantic’s series on the business of creativity, I spoke with Liu about giving up a law career, working for Marvel, why she quit writing novels, and the decision to make women the stars of Monstress. Our conversation has been edited for length and clarity.
Cruz: Since you got your start writing novels, what was the learning curve like when you did your first comic?
Liu: I realized I was thinking about fiction two-dimensionally. When I’m writing comics, I’m also visualizing how the story will look on the page—not even always art-wise, but panel-wise, like how a moment will be enhanced dramatically by simply turning a page and getting a reveal. It requires thinking about story in a way I never had to consider when I was writing prose.
I didn’t have any teachers. I got into comics because I wrote an X-Men novel for Pocket Books, and I introduced myself to the head of recruitment at Marvel. I’d heard through the grapevine they liked the book, so that gave me the courage to go up to them and be like, “Hey, if you ever need a writer, here I am.” But I learned how to write comics through Googling scripts, having read a ton of comics, and getting guidance from my editor at the time, John Barber.
Cruz: What was the editing process like at first?Liu: One of the most significant notes I recall is from when I was writing NYX, which was a Marvel book about these teenage mutants who are living on the streets of New York. And [the character] Kiden, one of her powers is that she can stop time. I remember the editor writing, “This is not a film. So how do you guide an artist when it comes to describing stopped time? Because literally everything is already stopped on the page.” That was a real eye-opener to how this was a very deep medium I was working in.
Ultimately, a comic writer is writing for the artist, and a script will not be read by anyone except whoever is behind the scenes. In the best moments, I think of my scripts as love letters to artists. I want to give them the best story possible so that they will have the best time possible drawing these things. It’s not just their livelihoods; they also invest in your work creatively and emotionally. I love writing novels, but there is something deeply invigorating about the comic-book medium. It’s not just the kinds of stories we’re able to tell, but it’s also the relationships that are built and the collaborative force that generates between you and your whole team when things are going right.
Cruz: What has your partnership with Sana Takeda been like?
Liu: Early on in X-23, we needed a fill-in artist for a couple of pages. Sana came on and only drew two or three pages, but they really stuck with me. Later when we needed a new artist, I specifically requested her. It was a wonderful process; it felt like she was reading my mind. Eventually, as it happens with all books at Marvel, the series ended, but I never forgot what a great experience it was to work with her. So two or three years later, I was in Japan [where Takeda lives], I looked her up and we had lunch, and I said, “Hey would you ever want to work together again?,” and she was like, “Sure, sounds great!”
Working on Monstress has been a very, very different experience than when we were working on X-23, and not only because that was a work-for-hire book. Both of us, in those years apart, went through our own journeys of growth, and when we came back together, we were in very different places.
Cruz: What do you mean by that?
Liu: How do I put this ... while I was working on X-23, I was dealing with a lot of depression. I was feeling really burned out as an artist, as a novelist specifically. I was really unhappy, and I felt really guilty for being unhappy. I was writing for a living, I was living a dream. So why in the world was I so unhappy?
Writing is very isolating, and I didn’t have a lot of balance in my life. There was always a reason for me not to be out in the world, because I could just say, “I have a deadline.” For someone who is already sort of shy and occasionally socially phobic, that was a very deadly trap to fall into. So I woke up one day and realized, “If I’m not careful, this is going to be my life forever until I die, and I’m going to be profoundly alone.” I told myself, “I can’t do this anymore. My writing does not matter more than my life.”
The Invisible Artists Behind Your Favorite Comics
I had to make certain decisions. I mostly stopped writing novels, but I kept writing comics because A) I needed money, but also B) I still enjoyed it. Writing comics wasn’t draining me. Between X-23 and Monstress, I underwent this huge life change where I moved, I quit writing novels, and I focused on what I wanted for my art and from life. Now, when I look back on who I was then and who I am now—it’s not that I’m unrecognizable. But there are days when it feels close to that.
Sana had gone through a similar journey, but in the opposite direction. After X-23, she couldn’t get work at Marvel or DC. They basically told her that her style was “too manga.” There was no room for her. So she started doing other things: designing, working for a gaming company, teaching. She thought, maybe, she wouldn’t ever do comics again.
Without those years of growth, Monstress would not be the book it is today. If you look at Sana’s art in X-23 versus the art in Monstress, chances are good you’d think they were done by two different people. Sana wanted to push herself. I don’t know many artists who could change so radically even in just a couple of years. It wasn’t like a leap forward, it was more like a leap sideways, going from one incredible style to another.
Cruz: What is the process of making the newest issue of Monstress like?
Liu: I wrote an outline for this arc, and I broke that down into six issues. I sent the outline to our editor, Jennifer Smith, who sent the outline to Sana, and everyone made notes and sent them back to me. Then I started writing scripts. And it’s a long script: Issue #13 won’t be coming out now until January. This is an oversized issue, and we wanted to build enough time to have more oversized issues in this next arc because it’s a lot of story. The script goes through my editor, who makes her notes, then I send it to Sana, who gets it translated [into Japanese]. She’ll send me character designs, layouts, and background scenery art, just to see if our vision is matching up for how the world looks. But I leave her alone once she starts drawing.
Cruz: What was it like going from writing big comics based on famous properties to creating something that’s entirely your own?
Liu: Oh, it’s scary! Writing for Marvel was a tremendous amount of fun, but it could be frustrating. Because you’re still working for a corporation, and at the end of the day, you don’t own anything you write. I would invest myself in these characters and sometimes, without much warning, be told the book is ending. Going into these books, you always tell yourself, “Don’t get too attached.” But sometimes the only way to write these characters is to get really attached.
Now, writing for Monstress on the other hand. It was funny, because I thought I knew how to write comics; I’d been writing at Marvel for so many years. It was so much harder than I expected, because I’d spent the previous years playing in someone else’s sandbox. I was writing someone else’s characters, writing in a world that was much like our own. Monstress is so much bigger and complex. So when I started writing it, and I was like, “Oh shit, I’m in trouble.” I had to step back and teach myself all over again how to write comics. Because writing a huge epic fantasy requires way more organization, worldbuilding, and character.
There’s a reason why the first issue of Monstress was triple-sized. Everything that needed to go into that first issue couldn’t be done in 20 pages; it had to be done in 70. You can get a sense of the difficulty I was facing, telling this huge story when technically you’re limited to a very small amount of space. Every panel has to count. It took me a really long time to get it right—about seven to eight months of constant hard work. But once I got the first arc and that first issue hammered out, it was like, “I can breathe now.”
Cruz: How has the way you think about money changed over the course of your career?
Liu: Money is always a concern. Part of the reason why my folks—why any immigrant family—wants their kids to go into law or medicine is because there’s the promise of reliable work. That’s a powerful idea that got hammered into my head growing up: Be this thing or else you’ll starve.
So to walk away from practicing law after I sold my first novel, that was tough. My family was happy for me, but there was also pressure because of the uncertainty. I had to do a lot of soul-searching, though at the end of the day, there was no way I was not going to write novels after selling that first one. The choice I had to make was whether to write full-time or write part-time and practice law. The catch is that I got a four-book contract with that first novel. I made a gamble and told myself that if I write two to three novels a year, then I can hopefully build my career faster than if I’m writing part-time and practicing law.
But I was super poor for those first few years. I lived on the family farm [in Indiana] so I wouldn’t have to pay rent, and I made barely anything at first. Ninety-nine percent of writers can’t live off their earnings alone; they need a day job or a spouse or family who’s willing to support them. Part of why writing comics was so attractive was that it was a regular paycheck. I wrote one to two comic-book issues a month, which meant being paid every month as opposed to just two or three times a year for novels.
But back to your original question: The way I think about money hasn’t really changed at all, in the sense that being an artist of any kind is a perilous endeavor financially. There will be months or years when everything is going great, and just as quickly that can dry up without much rhyme or reason. But I tell myself the same is true for any career. How many lawyers do I know who can’t get work practicing law? A lot. So I’d rather take my chances with a pen in my hand telling stories.
Cruz: When writing Monstress, how did you decide to make anger Maika’s defining emotion?
Liu: Female rage is not really permitted in real life. Angry women are called bitches, too emotional, hysterical, whereas male rage is often portrayed as heroic, righteous, intelligent. In Monstress, Arcanics wear collars around their necks to keep them from exercising their full selves. And I think one of the collars around the necks of women is society’s views about female rage. Which isn’t to say anger is necessarily a force for good. Rage can be energizing and sustaining, but it’s ultimately problematic if it doesn’t lead you to a deeper exploration of the source.
I’d argue the other defining emotion for Maika is grief. There’s a tremendous amount of injustice in her mind that needs to be answered for, and anger sustains her. Put another way, her anger is revolutionary. But like most revolutionary impulses, the consequences on the individual tend to be terrible. Women need rage to survive in society, but female rage without a project of emancipation in the long run might not be as rewarding as we want it to be.
Cruz: When I first read Monstress I was struck by how overwhelmingly female it was, and with so many characters of color. It reminded me of how little people have come to expect on the diversity front in mainstream art, where movies and shows get praise for even the smallest instances of representation.
Liu: Monstress is my response to and a product of my frustration with being bombarded by stories I’m told I should be grateful for. Like when we see TV shows where there are like a million white people and one Chinese woman, if we’re lucky. It’s a lie of white supremacy—the visual lie that tells us our heroes, our stories, our love lives, and everything that we aspire to, everything that is heroic and romantic, is white. Being surrounded by that, I think, really deforms the imagination, and it deforms the heart as well.
I grew up loving epic fantasies, and almost all of them were written by white men. With white, mostly male, casts. When you’re a kid, you don’t always think about what that means, but you do as you get older. I was deeply immersed in Chinese culture in my community and my family growing up, so how come when I was writing fiction as a kid, all my stories were about white people? Even though my personal life was incredibly diverse, my imaginary life was very white.
Monstress was my response to that. When it comes to diversity, people act like, “Oh, we can’t do this.” Bullshit! The easiest thing in the world is to say, “Every single person in this book is going to be a person of color.”
When I look at Hollywood, I don’t think it even occurs to the people in charge that they can make these choices. I talk a lot about the importance of structural diversity over the optics of diversity. Optics are fine. But without real structural diversity behind the scenes, ultimately the optics either won’t last or they’ll replicate the same system they’re coming out of. When I mentor young writers of color, I say we need more creators of color, more writers of color, and more women in order to see lasting change.


The finale of the first season of Pamela Adlon’s FX dramedy Better Things ended with Sam (Adlon) and her daughters driving around in the family minivan, the girls gazing out the window while Duke (Olivia Edward), the youngest, squeezed her mother’s hand. The track playing in the car was Alice Cooper’s “Only Women Bleed,” and all three of Sam’s kids sang along. It was a fitting ending for a debut series that had concerned itself singly with what women and girls go through, filtered through Adlon’s own experiences as a single mother and an actress. Sometimes it was funny (Sam memorably threw a teenage co-star out of her car after he tried to show her his penis, adding as a mom-like afterthought, “You can keep the jacket!”). Sometimes it was sad. But the show, dedicated to Adlon’s three daughters in real life, ended with acceptance. As Sam put it while addressing a female empowerment seminar at her daughter’s school, women have one thing in common: “We all bleed and we all suffer.”
If Better Things were just a comedy loosely based on Adlon’s life in Hollywood after 40, like a welcome heir to the highly underrated ’90s sitcom Cybill, it would still be spectacular, simply because Adlon is so sharp and so funny. But its ability to take a more wrenching look at womanhood made it one of the best and most distinctive shows of 2016. The second season, which debuts on FX Thursday, is somehow even better, directed in its entirety by Adlon, and written with Louis C.K., who co-created it. Dreamier and more wistful in style but with the same caustic sense of humor, the show takes more risks with structure and technique. Despite the fact that the writing in Better Things is a real gift—“Will you girls stop stealing candles for crying in the tub?” Sam pleads during an electrical outage—some of the most potent scenes are wordless altogether, as if to emphasize how many different things the show can master.
The Corner of Hollywood and Motherhood
Season 1 introduced Sam Fox, her eccentric British mother, Phil (Celia Imrie), and her daughters: Max (Mikey Madison), Frankie (Hannah Alligood), and Duke (Olivia Edward). (That all five characters have male names seems intentional.) Sam, like Adlon, is a former child actress who’s found reliable work later in her career as a voiceover artist (Adlon voiced the character of Bobby on King of the Hill for 13 seasons). Her ex-husband pops up sporadically but is mostly out the picture; Sam has an off/on thing with a married ex (Mather Zickel) that involves self-loathing and sexts that she dashes off between plunging the toilet and giving the dog eye drops. Max, the eldest, is more open with her mother about sex and drugs than Sam would like (“These things are normal but you should be ashamed of them,” Sam explains). Duke, the baby, is doted on by everyone. Frankie, the funniest one, got sent home from school in the season finale for using the boy’s bathroom; she assured her mother it wasn’t because she was identifying as one, but Sam seemed to accept at the end that her daughter was probably transgender.
In the seven episodes of Season 2 that have been released to critics, this storyline has been largely left alone, with Adlon telling a panel that she and her daughter went through similar phases, implying Frankie will figure things out at her own pace. The first two episodes feature Sam trying to manage not just her own sex life but her daughter’s, after 16-year-old Max starts dating Arturo, a louche, swaggering 36-year-old Spaniard. Adlon plays Sam’s response to this development as a kind of paralysis—she’s intuitive enough to know that freaking out will only drive Max away, but she’s also viscerally pained by seeing her eldest child already vulnerable to the worst schools of male bullshit artistry.
A recurring theme in the second season is this constant tension between weakness and strength, and assessing which one is more important at any given time. Teaching an acting class, Sam critiques two comedians performing a scene for exuding too much confidence. “You’re playing a person in this scene,” she explains. “People are weak. They’re not cool and fast.” The defining characteristic of her approach to relationships, though, is a desire for power—she dates a terrible Jeremy Corbyn-lookalike in the second episode so she doesn’t have to feel anything, and then is deeply unnerved when she meets someone who seems perfect for her. “I don’t know how to do this,” she says. “I don’t know where this goes. I’ve got no place to put it.”
Unlike the first season, which employed a roster of guest stars including Lenny Kravitz, David Duchovny, Julie Bowen, and Bradley Whitford, the second focuses on its primary cast members. A more prominent role is given to music, which never fails to convey both mood and a sense of humor (the closing track to the Arturo episode includes the lyrics, “Daughter, leave those boys alone”). Adlon’s direction is deft, especially considering she’s in virtually every scene. After a climactic conversation with Max, Sam briefly lets her hand linger on Max’s closed bedroom door—a gesture that conveys all the maternal love that Sam knows better than to try and vocalize. In one episode, after she meets a man in a bar, she falls into a kind of reverie remembering the moment, where his words are muted to a quiet hum. In another, she experiences a blissful beach day with her daughters but whether the scene is real or imagined is left ambiguous.
The series gets into more poignant emotional territory with a storyline involving the increasing physical and mental fragility of Phil, Sam’s mother. Imrie, a brilliant English comic actress, gets to convey Phil’s poisonous rage at sensing her own decline, as well as rare moments of connection with her daughter, whom she’s passive-aggressively sniped at for years. It’s to the credit of Louis C.K., who wrote the fifth episode, “Phil,” that the subject is so honestly handled. “You get used to things being hard where you can work to make them better,” Sam’s friend Tressa (Rebecca Metz) tells her about her own father’s deterioriation. “But this isn’t that. There’s no good end to this. It doesn’t get better. Your mother is gonna get worse and worse and then she’ll be gone.”
After this storyline, though, comes “Eulogy,” one of the most spectacular TV episodes in recent memory. The first half of it deals with Sam’s career—how tedious and stupid acting can be, and what it means to love it and try and be good at it anyway. The second tracks her attempts to get her daughters to recognize that her job is important. For once, Sam gets what she wants, in a funny, dark, and fiercely moving conclusion that captures the weird genius of her parenting style and the infrequent joy of single motherhood. The episode distills all the things that make Better Things so good: the acknowledgment that life, for women, is hard and baffling and humiliating and painful, and that it can also—fleetingly—be perfect.


There’s an anecdote Hillary Clinton tells about the frenzied run-up to the 2016 U.S. presidential election. She was in Scranton, Pennsylvania, campaigning with Joe Biden in his swing-state-set hometown. She noticed a woman staring at her—with more intensity than even Hillary Clinton is used to being stared at by members of the public. The woman finally approached her. She’d been gazing at Clinton, she explained, out of confusion. “I’d read you’d gained 130 pounds!”
It was a Kinsley gaffe whose truth was revealed not by the politician, but about her: Many people will believe pretty much anything about the former first lady/senator/secretary of state/presidential candidate. In her, the demands of American celebrity and the dynamics of American politics have mingled in an extremely targeted form of magical thinking. Whatever Hillary Clinton might do, a hefty chunk of people will assume its nefariousness. Whatever she might say, a significant portion of the populace will simply assume she is lying: Lady Macbeth, in the age of alternative facts. Is her marriage a sham? Is she sick with a chronic disease? Did she kill Vince Foster? Is she, just under those perfectly pressed pantsuits, hiding the scales of a reptile?
“I’m a Rorschach test,” Clinton said of herself, during the 2008 presidential primaries, and she was correct. The trouble, for all involved, is that she is also a human, with the moral and emotional freight the designation implies. Clinton may be a vessel for this moment’s internet-fueled iteration of the paranoid style; she feels them, though, those accusations flung in her direction. Once, when Clinton was the first lady, a staffer read aloud from a magazine story that repeated one of the moment’s trendy rumors: that Hillary had had sex with a colleague. Hearing it, the Washington Post’s Marc Fisher reported—or, rather, mishearing it—“Clinton’s eyes filled with tears.” She asked the staffer, “It really says I had sex with a collie?”
Every politician’s story will fuse the mundane and the mythic. Each will involve a strategic blend of fact and fiction. Each will rely on performances that a dubious and tenacious public will attempt to decode. Clinton’s story, however, has involved such things in decidedly disproportionate amounts. This is one of the themes of What Happened, the new book Clinton released on Tuesday.
Set in the negative space of a presidency that wasn’t, the book is a political memoir in the tritest traditions of the genre. Its chapters include titles like “Perseverance,” “Grit and Gratitude,” and “Making History.” It offers inspirational quotes from Rilke, various Roosevelts, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Hamilton. But What Happened—its blunt title belies its tone—is also casually conversational. It is personal. It is a book fit for a time in which celebrity demands intimacy, and in which even one of politics’ most common works of poetry—the memoir—will revel in the idle revelations of prose. It marks a transition for Clinton; it also suggests much broader transformations at play in American politics and American life. “In the past,” Clinton writes, “for reasons I try to explain, I’ve often felt I had to be careful in public, like I was up on a wire without a net. Now I’m letting my guard down.”
* * *
“There are times when all I want to do is scream into a pillow.”
“I knew the proper and respectful thing to do was to keep quiet and take it all with grace, but inside I was fuming.”
“I answered a ton of emails; I returned phone calls. It hurt. There’s a reason people isolate themselves when they’re suffering.”
Suffering is not a word one would likely expect to read in a campaign memoir, particularly one written by one of America’s foremost practitioners of classic Clintonian pragmatism. There it is, though, along with “pain” and “anger” and “with my heart still aching,” in What Happened. There is the country’s almost-president, talking not just of her dreams for the American future, but also of the anger she bears toward it. There she is, confiding to her readers about her fears. And her frustrations. And her love of Pepperidge Farm goldfish crackers (a generous serving of which, she notes, has “only 150 calories—not bad!”).
What Happened, whose title of course requires no further predicate, occasionally engages in blame, what-happened-wise: of Clinton herself, of Donald Trump, of Bernie Sanders, of James Comey, of Vladimir Putin, of the American media, of many more. It is occasionally dishy, as per the commercial demands of most such post-campaign books (at one point, Clinton refers to Jason Chaffetz as “the then-Utah Congressman and wannabe Javert”). It also, however, takes the performative authenticity so common in those works—the focus-group-approved anecdotes, the personality-by-committee—and attempts to subvert it. “Reading the news every morning was like ripping off a scab,” Clinton writes, and this is probably another thing you would not be expecting to read in a campaign memoir.
One of the ideas that has solidified around Clinton in recent years—an outgrowth of a media environment that once allowed her to believe that a magazine had accused her of bestiality—is that there are essentially two of her, contradicting each other: the persona versus the person, the public figure (controlled, cautious, calculating) versus the private one (warm, witty, capable of holding strong opinions about snack foods). “What’s remarkable,” Henry Louis Gates wrote of the then-first lady, in 1996, “isn’t that she can be funny, spontaneous, and mischievous, and has a loud, throaty laugh; what’s remarkable is the extent to which she has sequestered her personality from the media.” It’s a narrative that grew as Clinton twice sought, and twice lost, the American presidency. In 2016, the writer Rebecca Traister diagnosed the matter as “Hillary Clinton versus Herself.” The journalist Ezra Klein noted that “the Clinton America sees isn’t the Clinton colleagues know.” He named the disconnect “the gap.”
You could read What Happened as a post-facto attempt to bridge that distance: Here are 494 pages of concessional humanity, full of the kind of confessional revelations most commonly associated with the first-person industrial complex. Clinton’s earlier memoirs, Living History and Hard Choices, often embraced the prosaic prose of the big tent (“In this world and the world of tomorrow, we must go forward together or not at all,” “One thing that has never been a hard choice for me is serving our country. It has been the greatest honor of my life”); What Happened, which rehashes some of the former works’ aphorisms and insights, does, too. More often, though, it relies on simpler, and more intimate, exposition. It is written in the first person, but often slides into the second. It is cautiously diaristic.
In the book, Clinton discusses the wounds not just of November 2016, but of insults accumulated within a system so often baffled by women who seek power. (“For the record, it hurts to be torn apart,” she writes. “It may seem like it doesn’t bother me to be called terrible names or have my looks mocked viciously, but it does”). She discusses the partially unexpected joy Chelsea’s arrival brought her when she was born in 1980, noting that “getting pregnant was not easy for me.” The woman so often denigrated as “shrill” shares how she once enlisted the help of a linguistics expert to help her make her speeches more appealing to audiences. And how once, in college, she went on a blind date with a man “who wouldn’t take repeated nos for an answer,” and whom, finally, she had to slap to rebuff. (“But he did back off,” she notes, “and I went to bed that night shaken but not traumatized.”)
There is a certain circularity to such revelations: In early 2009, just before the New Hampshire primary, Clinton won awkward plaudits from media outlets when, answering a question about how she kept going during the grueling campaign—“I mean, as a woman, I know how hard it is to get out of the house and get ready,” the voter had said, going on to ask, “Who does your hair?”—the candidate teared up. Just a little. But still. While Clinton’s response had mostly elided the woman’s question (she had joked about how she “has help,” hair-wise, and then explained that she did the work of campaigning because the issues are both “personal” for her and “about all of us together”), it was the tears, to the press, that were the salient point. They were evidence of “the gap” in action, answers to the unsolicited advice pundits had been offering Hillary for decades—thoughts on how she might more effectively accomplish the task of her own self-humanization. “Clinton Finds Emotion on the Trail,” CBS put it. “Question draws out a usually guarded Clinton,” the Los Angeles Times had it. The Washington Post announced that it had detected “A Chink in the Steely Façade of Hillary Clinton.”
Others saw something else. “There was a whiff of Nixonian self-pity about her choking up,” The New York Times’s Maureen Dowd wrote, in an op-ed asking, “Can Hillary Cry Her Way Back to the White House?” The columnist shared her theory that “what was moving her so deeply was her recognition that the country was failing to grasp how much it needs her”—and that “in a weirdly narcissistic way, she was crying for us.”
Eight years later, in What Happened, Clinton gets the last say, by way of a decidedly different answer to the “who does your hair?” question. She talks in detail about her “glam squad.” She name-checks her (two) hairstylists and her makeup artist (“recommended to me by Vogue’s Anna Wintour after she saw me at an event and knew I needed help”). As before, though, she puts the routine into a political context. “I’ve never gotten used to how much effort it takes just to be a woman in the public eye,” Clinton notes, adding, “I once calculated how many hours I spent having my hair and makeup done during the campaign. It came to about 600 hours, or 25 days! I was so shocked, I checked the math twice.”
There are several exclamation marks in What Happened. There is also much evidence of the wry humor those who know her—those on the “person” side of the gap—tend to emphasize: “I doubt that many people reading this will ever lose a presidential election,” she acknowledges, adding, “(Although maybe some have: Hi Al, hi John, hi Mitt, hope you’re well).” She refers to the period after November 8 as “that horrible, no good, very bad time.” She talks about eating over-refrigerated Quest bars on the campaign plane—and about the fact that warming them up enough to make them edible often required sitting on them, “with as much dignity as one can muster at such a moment.” Clinton begins the chapter titled “Showing Up” with an epigraphic observation: “That which does not kill us makes us stronger.” She attributes the line to “Friedrich Nietzsche (and Kelly Clarkson).”
Mostly, though, Clinton shares. She emphasizes the relatable smallness of her post-election life, the mundanity of it, the casual humanity of it. After she delivered her concession speech on November 9, she writes, she went home to Chappaqua and put on yoga pants and a fleece. She hiked in the woods, with Bill and their dogs. She drank lots of Chardonnay. She organized her closets and FaceTimed with her grandkids and watched Blue Bloods and Downton Abbey (she likes the latter show because it reminds her of a night she spent in Buckingham Palace, when she was the secretary of state). She finished Elena Ferrante’s Neapolitan novels. She prayed. (“I can almost see the cynics rolling their eyes,” she notes of that last one.)
And also: She got really sad. She got really angry. “I didn’t go public with my feelings,” she notes; “I let them out in private. When I heard that Donald Trump settled a fraud suit against his Trump University for $25 million, I yelled at the television. When I read the news that he filled his team with Wall Street bankers after relentlessly accusing me of being their stooge, I nearly threw the remote control at the wall.”
She didn’t go public then; she is going public, of course, now. And in some ways that’s its own kind of concession. Hillary Clinton is at this point pretty much a metonym for gendered double standards, and one of the paradoxes of her long career in politics has mirrored one of the paradoxes of sexism itself: It can be unclear whether something is happening because of gender or because of something else. The media coverage of Clinton often carries this whiff of uncertainty: Is she treated the way she is because she is a politician—a performer, a celebrity, a body that seeks to rise above the body politic—or because she is a woman?
What is clear is that the media’s ongoing obsession with her emotions is tinged with sexism. (Remember when, the morning of her concession speech, CNN pundits offered a thorough analysis of the feels she must surely have been experiencing as she delivered her address?) And with What Happened, Clinton is cannily feeding the beast. Much of the coverage of the book, in the run-up to its release, took delight in dismissing it as an “anguished, angry memoir,” as Clinton reveling in the “woe is me.” Many assumed that Clinton would use the book as a way to engage in our well-established rituals of public apology, the stuff of rehabilitation and reconciliation and agreements to appear on Dancing With the Stars. But Clinton, ultimately, is doing in the book what the American media have for so long done to her, ostensibly on her behalf: She is commercializing her humanity. She is selling her emotions, for what will likely be a tidy profit. As the book’s jacket promises, “This is her most personal memoir yet.”
In all that, What Happened is doing the thing so many women politicians and women citizens have done, recently, in response to a world that refuses to make space for them: It reclaims. It takes the logic of “nasty woman” and “nevertheless, she persisted” and “reclaiming my time” and makes it literary. In the book, the woman who has for decades contended with a media system that demands ever more of her—more emotion, more authenticity, more humanity—is giving that system what it asked for. But she’s doing that on her own terms. For the purposes of selling her own stuff. “I’ll bet you know more about my private life than you do about some of your closest friends,” Clinton points out, in her most personal memoir yet. “You’ve read my emails, for heaven’s sake. What more do you need? What could I do to be ‘more real’? Dance on a table? Swear a blue streak? Break down sobbing? That’s not me.”
And yet now, just a little bit, it is. Here is yet one more “me” Clinton is displaying, a self that will be embraced by some and reflexively disbelieved by others. A self that emerged, likely, from some heady fusion of Clinton’s leaked emails and political strategizing and Kim Kardashian and social media and a culture that sees information that confides and confesses as the most honest information of all. What Happened arrives in the year 2017, and also takes its measure: It assumes a new and newly emotional style of political engagement. It acquiesces to a moment in which an author, before explaining how we might move Onward Together, loses her patience with the public meant to do the moving: What more, she asks, not bothering to mask her frustration, do you need?
Clinton’s memoir almost—almost—takes a cue from Donald Trump, whose victory in November emphasized, among so much else, the political power of the unfiltered id. What Happened is in that way one more concession that Hillary Clinton, who ached but who healed, has offered up to the American republic. The book is cannily revelatory. It is savvily emotional. It is a series of controlled explosions. “When I feel wronged,” Clinton confesses, “I get mad.” She adds: “And then I think about how to fight back.”


The most famous moment of pop-culture political protest in recent memory happened at a post-hurricane telethon, with Kanye West using his spot in a 2005 Katrina-victim fundraising effort to tell the nation, “George Bush doesn’t care about black people.”
There was no such memorably inflammatory moment at Tuesday night’s “Hand in Hand” telethon for those affected by hurricanes Harvey and Irma. As is the case with these sorts of affairs, the hour was largely a showcase for supergroup performances (check out George Strait, Chris Stapleton, Miranda Lambert, Lyle Lovett, and Robert Earl Keen closing the show with “Texas”). There was also the surreal sight of dozens of superstars smilingly answering phones: George Clooney and Julia Roberts switching handsets, Nicki Minaj making fans squeal, Justin Bieber mugging in the guise of an ’80s Miami drug-cartel accountant. So far, the event has raised $44 million to be distributed by Comic Relief USA to charities including the Rebuild Texas Fund, Habitat for Humanity, and Save the Children.
But sprinkled in were a few statements that were remarkable in what they show about our divided times. Many viewers may have heard them as anodyne; others likely reacted a bit like Mike Myers did standing next to Kanye West 12 years ago.
Hurricane Harvey’s Public-Health Nightmare
The broadcast began with Stevie Wonder offering an invocation that gradually moved from unifying to confrontational. “We’ve come together today to love on the people who have been devastated by the hurricanes,” Wonder said, warming up for a rendition of “Lean on Me.” “When love goes into action, it preferences no color of skin, no ethnicity, no religious beliefs, no sexual preferences, and no political persuasions. It just loves.”
So far, fairly inarguable. But then: “And anyone who believes that there’s no such thing as global warming must be blind or unintelligent. Lord, save us all.”
In the wide swaths of America where climate change is taken for granted and the latest back-to-back catastrophes that have killed dozens and displaced millions seem more than a spooky coincidence, Wonder’s is not a particularly provocative statement. Other swaths—those who’d just been called blind or unintelligent—obviously felt differently. Write-ups on conservative news sites were almost immediate, with The Daily Caller reporting that the telethon was “getting political” from the start.
(In the clip of the full telethon MTV posted on YouTube, Wonder’s opening comments aren’t included; a representative said the omission is from a glitch that may be repaired soon.)
A pre-taped segment from the Houston native Beyoncé was also notably pointed. Many of her celebrity colleagues used their spotlight moments to call out specific instances of bravery (Selena Gomez was movingly choked up discussing the swept-away Saldivar family) or particular needs (the plight of pets, in Eric McCormack’s case). Beyoncé gave a more big-picture view, connecting Harvey and Irma with other recent distressing developments in the headlines.
“During a time where it’s impossible to watch the news without seeing violence or racism in this country, just when you think it couldn’t possibly get worse, natural disasters take precious life, do massive damage and forever change lives, leaving behind contaminated water, flooded hospitals, schools, and nursing homes,” she said. “Natural disasters don’t discriminate. They don’t see if you’re an immigrant, black or white, Hispanic or Asian, Jewish or Muslim, wealthy or poor. It doesn’t matter if you’re from Third Ward or River Oaks, we’re all in this together. Seeing everyone of different racial, social, and religious backgrounds put their own lives at risk to help each other survive restored my faith in humanity.”
Watch: Beyoncé's heartfelt message on natural disasters & climate change. #HandInHand pic.twitter.com/B0McFh21Dt
She was dressed in radiant white—which, naturally, was the focus of certain coverage more than her words were—but her rhetoric was that of someone feeling drained by current events. Then she picked up on Wonder’s theme of speaking out for the scientific consensus, saying, “The effects of climate change are playing out around the world every day. Just this past week, we’ve seen devastation from the monsoon in India, an 8.1 earthquake in Mexico, and multiple catastrophic hurricanes.” (If the list seems to contain a non sequitur, note that there is evidence seismic activities and climate change may be linked, though it’s hard to claim a connection in the case of this latest quake.)
Messages like Beyoncé’s, whatever their political implications, seemed first intended to strike against complacency by talking about the specific circumstances of this era. Another pop giant with Houston connections, Drake, sent a message more explicitly seeking to interrupt apathy. “These days it seems as one issue is ending, another is beginning” he said. “I know it can be extremely overwhelming. But your attention and your assistance is of extreme importance.”


“I’m much more mature than when you last saw me,” Ilana Wexler says to a former confidante in the third episode of Broad City’s fourth season. I won’t spoil the context of the scene, but Broad City fans will know to assume the line arrives with a jumbo-molar-sized heap of irony. Suffice it to say, Ilana’s supposed newfound maturity does not save her from a predicament involving cocaine, lingerie, and her shouting, “You owe me a doodoo favor, bitch!”
Broad City’s excellently demented chronicle of two New York City slackers continues a rich TV-comedy tradition of following totally inept young urbanites who viewers, for some reason, hold up as generational symbols. And it, like many such shows before it, has a funny relationship to the notion that its characters might “grow up.” Seinfeld mocked the idea of personal improvement and then punished its antiheroes for their stasis. Girls baffled with tiptoe-forward, somersault-backward character arcs, but it still ended up scooting its gals to some state beyond early-20s tetherlessness. Broad City has smirked at cliches of maturity from the start, and any hints of growth in Abbi and Ilana have been corkscrew, mostly cosmetic—nothing to stop them from getting weird.
29 New TV Shows to Watch This Fall
Remember, it was in the series premiere that Ilana groaned to Abbi, “You’re losing your edge, and I wasn’t gonna say anything, but you’re not as fun as you used to be.” If Abbi had indeed lost her edge by then, her “not as fun” phase turned out to be a disgusting hoot anyways, involving shellfish binges, and booze cruises, and poop in boots. Season 2 ended with Ilana’s 23rd birthday, which she marked by setting goals for the coming year: “I want to finish a book—reading, not writing—I want to gradually lower my dosage of anti-depressants, and I want to join Ancestry.com. Oh, and see a mangina from behind.” Season 3’s big dramas, about Abbi dating a coworker and Ilana losing her friend with benefits, were mostly overshadowed by the frenetic two-part finale in which their menstruation-related hijinks on a flight to Israel were mistaken for terrorism.
So: Trust that in Season 4, the Broad City duo does not suddenly discover responsibility and sobriety. What instead happens is that the world inflicts some pain upon them, and the show guffaws at their gonzo squirming. Provocatively, a big source of said pain is plenty familiar to the show’s liberal-leaning viewers: the Donald Trump presidency. The 2016 election is as much a bomb here as it is in American Horror Story: Cult—and like with that show, the focus is less on the new political reality itself than on peoples’ emotional reactions to it. Creators/stars Ilana Glazer and Abbi Jacobson have talked about rewriting the season after the defeat of one of their recent guest stars at the national polls: “It is dark as fuck,” Glazer told The Daily Beast. “It is as dark as the world is today.”

That perhaps counts as overpromising—it wasn’t till a second viewing of the three episodes screened for critics that I really saw what Glazer had been talking about. Trump’s influence makes for an explicit plot point, and there are winks at politics throughout (one episode opens with a brilliant little parable about the haves and have-nots). Much of the season takes place in winter, placing the frequently pit-stained ensemble instead in parka-swathed discomfort. But by and large the show is still defined by extended riffs of surreal whimsy and raunch. You finish each episode giggling about, say, later-in-life circumcision or feminist witchcraft—two plot topics—rather than wallowing in any dark emotions, per se.
But pay close attention to Ilana. Abbi has always been the Eeyore of the duo, and she actually finds herself on the ups—romantically, professionally—early on (it will come as no surprise that she’s not exactly nonchalant in her new relationship). Ilana, too, is meeting life milestones, holding down a stable job that’s earning her a ton of tips (it will come as no surprise that she doesn’t respond to the windfall by investigating her 401k options). Yet there’s a new brittleness, a strain, to her extreme silliness. The manic-pixie-yas-kween shtick has started to seem like a façade for some real anxieties.
Maybe it always was one to some extent. The fourth-season premiere offers a heady formal experiment inspired by the 1998 Gwyneth Paltrow romantic comedy Sliding Doors, flashing back to the day Abbi and Ilana met at a New York City subway station to investigate two alternate realities: one in which they did make the train they’d been rushing toward and one in which they didn’t. What transpires are two day-in-the-life stories typical in their absurdity but also subtly poignant in what they depict about friendship. I shouldn’t say much about these flashbacks, but trust that a cruel twist involving burrito bowls complicates the episode’s premise deliciously.
What I can say is that the Ilana and Abbi of 2011 seem a little different than the ones of today, and not only because they’re listening to slightly dated pop and wearing slightly dated clothes. Abbi’s on the lookout for a bestie much in the way that another show’s version of her mousy-millennial archetype might be on the lookout for a boyfriend. Ilana’s yet to embrace the full glory of her kinky hair. That they’ve progressed since then does show that change is possible in Broad City’s universe.
More importantly, though, the glimpse of the past deepens the characters and foreshadows inner struggles to come. The 2011 Ilana’s obliviousness brought her to the brink of a few personal crises, and the day we see her have without Abbi by her side is a total bummer. The revelation isn’t that a new friend cheered her up—it’s that this happy-go-lucky spirit was ever in need of cheering up at all.


By Heart is a series in which authors share and discuss their all-time favorite passages in literature. See entries from Colum McCann, George Saunders, Emma Donoghue, Michael Chabon, and more.
Jenny Zhang’s story collection Sour Heart begins with something you don’t see often in fiction: a two-page meditation on the logistics of taking “a big dump.” The Zhang family lives in a crumbling building on a particularly drug-ridden block in Bushwick, Brooklyn, where a faulty toilet often forces them to run, clenching their bowels, to the gas station across the street. Too poor to buy a toilet plunger, the Amoco is their humiliating last resort.
It’s an indicative anecdote. Sour Heart often derives its strength from Zhang’s ability to locate humor, pathos, and magic in the kind of mundane, everyday scenarios other writers might skip over entirely—the utter boredom of childhood afternoons, the frantic prickle of a nocturnal skin itch, the grinding daily degradations of poverty.
How Rudyard Kipling Turned His Guilt Into Fiction
In a conversation for this series, Zhang spoke about Roberto Bolaño’s “Dance Card,” a short story that pays tribute to what is overlooked, silenced, and forgotten. It’s an elegy to the neglected Chilean writers and artists who lost their homes, their minds, and sometimes their lives resisting the violent Pinochet regime, installed in a U.S.-backed military coup on September 11, 1973. She explained how the story’s unusual approach helped her learn to foreground minor characters and historical footnotes through irreverence and absurdity—techniques that also help flout the literary establishment’s attempts to idealize, sanitize, and pigeonhole writers who address aspects of the immigrant experience.
Sour Heart features a cast of loosely connected, Chinese American narrators as they strive against destitution toward dignity, and negotiate the fierce, fraught love between child and parent. It’s the first book published by Random House’s new Lenny imprint, selected by the Girls creator Lena Dunham. Jenny Zhang is also the author of the poetry collection Dear Jenny, We Are All Find and essays in Harper’s, The New York Times Magazine, and Rookie. She lives in Brooklyn and spoke to me by phone.
Jenny Zhang: Roberto Bolaño’s story collection Last Evenings on Earth shows you the eye of the storm by focusing on the most far-flung margin, the thing that’s farthest from the center. The book gives a sense of the things that were happening in Latin America during the 1970s, particularly the revolutionary struggles in Chile after the military coup. But though you can feel the impact of the violence, the disappearances, the fear and paranoia that engulfed people at the time, Bolaño rarely addresses the political context head-on. On the big events, he mostly stays silent.
At first, this surprised me. We tend to approach world literature with the historical turning points in mind—wars, revolutions, the things that make it into the newspapers. I came to Last Evenings on Earth expecting this, probably out of my own ignorance of what it meant to be Chilean in the 1970s. Ultimately, though, I found it even more moving and frightening to encounter these desperate characters in their less extraordinary hours. They’re afraid for their lives, but we mostly encounter them on the days when the death squads they’re trying to elude don’t actually show up.
The book is a reminder that the most interesting things in life and literature tend to be the mundane, the banal, the pathetic, the easily overlooked. The final story in the collection, “Dance Card,” is especially an ode to the struggles of minor characters—and a scathing critique of the human impulse to cast certain historical figures as mythic heroes, while forgetting about the rest.
“Dance Card” is presented as a numbered list, which gives it the feeling of a library catalog, or the index at the back of a book, or the collected footnotes to a larger story we never get to read. The unnamed narrator, B, tells his life story in this fascinating way—almost as if he’s writing his autobiography by sharing only what seem like the most minor and insignificant parts of his life.
The first thing we learn about him is that he spent his youth obsessed with Pablo Neruda, Chile’s best-known and best-selling poet, which his mother read to him constantly as a child. But the narrative of B’s life becomes, in many ways, the story of his falling out of love with Neruda. By the end, you feel almost horrified by the suggestion that a single voice could stand in for the experiences of an entire country.
Though the piece grapples with the physically and psychologically violent fallout of a military coup, it’s telling that the central dramatic scene involves not bloodshed but something more everyday: B’s argument with a filmmaker, Alejandro Jodorowsky, about poetry. When Jodorowsky tells B that Nicanor Parra is the greatest Chilean poet, praising him and reciting his works by heart, B argues for Neruda, the artistic father figure he has cherished since childhood. Looking back, B mocks his naive devotion to Neruda:
At that stage I was a highly sensitive young man, as well as being ridiculous and full of myself, and I declared that Chile’s finest poet was, without any doubt, Pablo Neruda. All the rest, I added, are midgets.
B admits later that he’d only read two Neruda collections at that point, and even then had already grown tired of one of them. After making his pathetic case, B leaves the house in tears, forced to recognize the world is so much larger than he knows. The argument seems to change him. A year later, he’s still a Neruda fan, but he starts to read more widely and learns to revere the names of other poets.
Ultimately, the narrator—like so many Bolaño characters—becomes obsessed with what we don’t get to read. He’s spooked by the obscure poets, the forgotten minor figures whose work has been lost or destroyed. The story is filled with brief asides, alluding to writers who died under torture, who died of AIDS or overdoses, who met various inglorious ends. And in light of all these forgotten voices, Neruda’s monolithic stature becomes revolting to him. At the end of the story, he likens him to Ugolino, an Italian count who appears as one of the damned in Dante’s Inferno, a man who stabbed his own nephew to maintain power and was imprisoned with his children who implored him to cannibalize their bodies once they were dead. In the final page, it’s almost as if Neruda’s continued fame parasitically feeds off the suffering younger generation:
66. Do we have to come back to Neruda as we do to the Cross, on bleeding knees, with punctured lungs and eyes full of tears? 67. When our names no longer mean a thing, his will go on shining, his will go on soaring over an imaginary domain called Chilean Literature. 68. By then all poets will live in artistic communities called jails or asylums. 69. Our imaginary home, the home we share.
B comes to feel there’s just too many examples of people who died without pity, who died without forgiveness, without redemption, to really believe that every human gets the destiny they deserve—or that there’s even such a thing as deservedness, especially in art. He’s tormented by the thought that Neruda’s name will “go on shining,” long after the names of his fallen contemporaries “no longer mean a thing.” Bogged down by all these tiny stories of the forgotten poets, the wretched ones, he can no longer believe in what he originally wanted: a leader, a meaningful leader.
We seem to need our poets and writers to be more than that—we’re not satisfied with just them being mere artists. But “Dance Card” reminds us that each time you amplify one voice, you silence another. I think that’s one reason why, in this story, Bolaño takes such pains to torpedo his own myth. Bolaño was very aware of how easy it was for it him to become a symbol, how easy it would be to elevate him into an archetypal Latin American writer, and this collection actively tries to ward off future attempts to do that.
Throughout Last Evenings on Earth, Bolaño is ambiguous and contradictory about his own autobiography. In all the stories, the narrator is unnamed or just “B”—and it’s not clear to what extent these characters can be separated from one another, which characteristics or events are autobiographical or imagined. I like the way they blur together—it think it influenced the way I approached Sour Heart, a collection of stories where every single narrator is a Chinese American girl, the progeny of Chinese artists and poets, whose lives intersect and converge in minor, but significant ways. I think I learned from Bolaño how to present different aspects of a fragmented self in a way that eludes any easy autobiographical reading.
The real Bolaño did participate in some revolutionary activities in Chile (although even that has been hotly debated)—famously, he was arrested, and locked up with other political prisoners who were being tortured. But though similar circumstances befall the narrator of “Dance Card,” it’s not told like Orwell coming back from war with his battle scars. We’re told, instead, the pathetic, comic story of a failed resistance, as if Bolaño’s saying: I joined the revolution and was bored. When the character B goes to the only revolutionary cell in the suburban town he’s in, the other freedom fighters are all senior citizens—or else they are 15. He’s sent to keep watch in an empty street, and he forgets his password. When he’s picked up during a random road check, the whole event is written to emphasize the randomness and absurdity of his misfortunes. B spends the night in a jail, and while he can hear others being tortured near him, he is left alone to pass the time reading a magazine article about Dylan Thomas. The whole thing is much more pathetic than heroic. It’s almost like he fails to be in “the right story”—as if he’s just a footnote in a larger narrative.
I love the way he plays with our expectations of autobiography, how he frustrates our desire to find the perfect leftist, activist, Latin American writer and revolutionary who is heroic in all the right ways. It provided a way to write about the stories I heard growing up, about another failed revolution where poets and artists were often jailed over the most trivial and petty of things, where their lives ended in tragic and absurd ways. I was captivated by my parents’ stories of the Cultural Revolution—stories of people dying, and street fights, and torture, stuff that was all very sensational and hard to forget. But after those stories ended, there were always other stories about the people whose stories ended in more comic ways, less glorious ways. I remember hearing about a man who went through all these machinations to elude capture by Mao Zedong’s regime, only to end up stranded in the U.S. Virgin Islands, cut off from his family for 30 years. When they were finally reunited, he promptly lost a leg in a freak accident.
Similarly, in “Dance Card” B hears three different versions of the same story of a Chilean woman who was a member of the MIR (the leftist revolutionary organization that was systematically targeted, rounded up, tortured, and murdered by the Pinochet regime) “having live rats put into her vagina” and who survives only to “die of sadness” years later. The character B isn’t sure if it’s an incredibly common story or if each of the stories was referring to the same woman. Bolaño tends to foreground those footnoted, overlooked tragedies in a way I find really beautiful.
Whenever there are significantly awful historical events, I’ve found there’s always a lot of comedy in them despite the gruesomeness. There’s a way certain things—death, extreme poverty—are deemed so tragic that they cannot be profaned, they can only be spoken of reverently or seriously. It’s been important to me in my writing to show that people are not only defined by the hardships they experience. Women are often defined by the worst thing that has happened to them. Even just calling someone an “immigrant” implies that their identity is bound by the most difficult thing that’s happened to them. To me, that’s just not an interesting use of literature. You can bring out the humor in people’s situations without trivializing them.
Think about it: If it weren’t so shitty and miserable to be poor, it would be really funny. There’s a part in the first story in Sour Heart where this Chinese American family lives in a violent, unsafe, poor neighborhood—I tried to convey that by describing the way their stuff gets stolen every week by the same people, and each time they buy it back it only gets stolen again. It’s not a scary confrontation with knives—it’s this grinding inconvenience that eventually drains their funds, forcing them, ultimately, to move out.
Sometimes that’s what poverty is. The fact that it costs so much to be poor is absurd. Poor people often have very little access to healthy food and are forced to shop in supermarkets that sell expired goods, rotting produce, and they have to do it at a higher premium than rich people. Poor people also pay disproportionately more of their income for rent. If that weren’t so supremely terrible, if their humanity hadn’t been so completely compromised, it would be comic.
Being scatological is another way I found the humor in my characters suffering. Maybe it’s inappropriate and immature—but when you’re hungry, do you know how much you think about what you put in you, how much you think about what comes out of you? Your whole life is dictated by the things that are or are not going in you, that are or are not coming out of you. That’s a huge part of life, especially for immigrants who are used to eating a completely different set of foods at home, and I felt like it was worthy of pages.
When I go back to China, every single one of my elders has a laundry list of issues with their bowels and their bowel movements. It’s because so many of them lived through a time of famine where they literally had to eat bark, some of them while working under extremely harsh conditions. I had an aunt who was sent to work in Heilongjiang, an area that borders Siberia and China. For eight years, she said, she was served this thing called mantou in the morning—a kind of bread she had to eat within 10 seconds or it would literally turn to ice. For eight years of her life, every morning, she had this ice cube of bread in her stomach and now she has these horrible stomach problems—just the way so many other people have horrible back problems, or knee problems, because of the labor they had to do.
The narrators of my stories descend from people who lived through that, and in some small way I think there’s something powerful in laughing at something really terrible that happened to you. After all, there’s nothing more dangerous than making fun of a tyrannical regime—humor and profanity are the first things that are rounded up and eliminated. More than that: These tiny moments of levity are what free people from being mere victims to the vagaries of history. To take humor out of someone’s narrative is to deprive them of a kind of humanity. It’s using them, too—a way of wielding people functionally. But no one wants to be a pawn in someone else’s ideological signaling. You want to be a full, whole human. You want your humanity to be restored.
The fear of being used symbolically haunts me. I fear how quickly the symbolic usages that my writing might have can eclipse the writing itself. I realize that I’m very easy to tokenize. I’m very easy to wield symbolically. I have an anxiety that our need to have a way to talk about the “immigrant experience” will override what I’m actually writing about. But I don’t want to be anointed a chronicler of the immigrant experience. I worry that my work will become too meaningful in all the ways that I never wanted it to be, and not meaningful enough in all the ways that I want it to be.
And yet, now that I have this book out, I think I also feel some amount of shame: Why is it that I get to be read? Why has someone decided that what I have to say should be heard? On the other side of not wanting to be forgotten, of not wanting to vanish, is—for me, at least—shame that I now exist on the page. I fear that my words will be misunderstood, but I also have shame about fearing that because I don’t want to be so controlling about something I’ve made. It’s just that poetry and literature are often used as proxies in these ideological, cultural battles. And writers are constantly saying: No, just read the actual words.
There’s such longing at the end of “Dance Card.” There’s this longing for community in every single thing that Bolaño wrote. In almost every book, he writes about someone who has this initial interest, curiosity, idealism, who goes searching for an artistic poetic community where their words and ideas will matter. Then there’s this fall from grace, realizing that maybe no such thing exists—or that all communities are fractured and disturbed and destroyed by in-fighting and pettiness, but also real differences.
I think every writer who still goes on and doesn’t quit, must have that longing, must keep that longing alive and must in some way not be willing to give up on that possibility that’s there’s a shared home for all of us who believe in the beauty of words and language and stories and poetry. What Bolaño, at the end of “Dance Card,” calls “our imaginary home, the home we share.” It’s a dark vision—in the line before, he suggests the best poets can hope for are “artistic communities called jails or asylums.” You have to ask yourself if he means “asylum” in the sense of “refuge” or “asylum” in the sense of a place you’re thrown into because you’re politically persecuted or because you’re deranged and deformed by all the suffering that’s befallen you.
But there’s also a glimmer of hope. A sense of the poet’s longing: Please don’t take my imagination away from me, let me have that, let me have a home there. All writers have imaginary homelands, especially exiled writers who literally cannot go home, and there is a sense that the home we do share is that realm of the imagination, a place where all our voices can be heard.
I still believe in it. Writing is an asylum in both senses of the word: I’m finally on safe ground, and also I’m going mad. All together with everyone else. Literature is a place to go mad together.


Princess Nokia’s “ABCs of New York” at first seems built on a simple gimmick. “A is for the apple, take a bite and spit it out,” raps the 25-year-old rising star. “B is for bodega, eating on your mama couch.” It’s a list song, a nu-“10 Crack Commandments” or “Alphabet Aerobics,” rendering America’s biggest city in adult nursery-rhyme.
But as the track unspools over a laid-back keys loop, the seemingly rigid format begins to break down. By the letter “G,” for “ghetto girl,” Princess Nokia is going off on half-verse tangents—“rainbow clothes / Baby hairs and well-done toes / Single mothers carry those bummy sneakers / What are those?” When she moves to the next letter, it’s casual, unannounced; only afterwards do you realize “H” is for “Hunts Point.” Now instead of her foisting the A-B-C concept on the listener, the listener’s trying to find alphabetical meaning in her free-form journaling. In the final verse, the letters are swirled together, out of order. But “X” is unmissable: “Livin’ in the city, you can never be a xenophobe.”
The Urgent Message of M.I.A.'s Kala at 10
The way that song grabs attention with a simple idea and then complicates it, enlivens it, and gives it a little political charge is typical for Princess Nokia. She’s one of the most fascinating new forces in music because of how she strikes a balance between high-minded concepts, social specificity, and the playfulness that only hip-hop can afford. Last year’s self-released EP, 1992, is now available on streaming platforms with eight new tracks, essentially making it a full-fledged album: 1992 Deluxe. It’s a great debut, teeming with the same kaleidoscopic possibility as the city she hails from.

Destiny Nicole Frasqueri has been releasing music under the name Princess Nokia for three years, and in some ways she seems a perfect match for an era in which identity—racial and otherwise—has become a newly explicit cultural focal point. “I am a Yoruba, Taino, Puerto Rican girl with really brown skin, full curly hair, and a spirit that does not quit,” she told Teen Vogue in a recent interview, and her lyrics celebrate other labels, too—nerd, tomboy, goth, ’90s kid, bruja. But one listen to 1992 makes clear that her appeal is less on-paper and more in-the-ear, with her identity inspiring intoxicatingly brash, unpretentiously clever anthems about nonconforming. This is rap that uses the word “diaspora” both out of wokeness and because it’s fun to say.
The husky toughness in her voice is unmistakably a New Yorker’s, but part of her talent is her ability to morph, whether echoing Southern drawls or adopting the vogueish triplet flow. Her beatmakers trend classicist—using soul textures, crisp snapping drums, bright synth lines, with the occasional skitter of new trap music—and the sturdy backing frees Princess Nokia to experiment with delivery. Aggressive singles like “Tomboy” and “Kitana” have her unloading fast, tight bursts of syllables over a militaristic roar. Other times, she and her producers nail very specific moods: glowering and confident for the supernatural boasts of “Brujas,” pensively jazzy on the NYC commuter’s sketchbook “Green Line.”

A big part of the album’s charm comes from getting to know Frasqueri, who has a knack for imparting her own uniqueness while connecting it to the environment around her. On the opener, “Bart Simpson,” she sketches herself as a high-school slacker using details that make for both a distinctive personal portrait and a totally relatable vision of teenage struggle: “Eczema so bad I’m bleeding, but I smile and keep it cheesing.” Later, the silky highlight “Saggy Denim” pairs a litany of ’90s touchstones—Sublime, Selena, Calvin Klein—with the rapper’s memories of growing up “in the projects with nasty stairs and halls.”
Nokia’s big muse, in fact, is the relationship between one’s own culture, interests, and individuality. Anime, horchata, yaki ponytails—whatever the signifier she’s using in the moment, she implies that people can be defined by the things that give their lives texture but not reduced to them. “The world was born of innies / And I was born an outie,” she raps on “Goth Kid,” a compilation of references to Marilyn Manson and Edward Gorey that revels in the mismatch between the stereotypes others might want to place on her versus the one she’s trying to claim (“Gothic is the pain you feel and not the clothes that’s on your back”). Standing apart gives you power, she’s saying. But her mission clearly is not just about being different. It’s about recognizing the folks who might see themselves in her, and reveling in their shared language.


Strange things can happen when television shows move from one locale to another. The languid moodiness of True Detective’s first season, mired in the mystic culture and history of rural Louisiana, looked more like lumpy, peyote-swigging fan fiction when the show was rebooted in exurban California a year later. Even a simple production change can make a difference: The X-Files, transplanted from filming in dreary Vancouver to sunny Los Angeles in its sixth season, suddenly saw all the myriad possibilities of alien comedy and adjusted its tone accordingly.
Top of the Lake, the 2013 miniseries by Jane Campion about a female detective (Elisabeth Moss) investigating a missing, pregnant 12-year-old, was set in the fictional remote town of Laketop, New Zealand, and much of the series’s power came from its bleak, otherworldly landscape. The vast mountains looming over yellow fields put the eerie, even surreal behavior of Laketop’s inhabitants in the right kind of frame. When a show is so anchored by its topography, it’s hard to imagine what it might look like elsewhere—picture Twin Peaks set in Panama City, or The Killing in San Diego.
But that’s about what happened with Top of the Lake: China Girl, Campion’s follow-up, currently airing over three nights on Sundance TV in successive two-hour installments before it heads to Hulu. Set around Sydney’s Bondi Beach, the six-hour drama feels unmoored by its new location. The characteristic obsessions are all there—motherhood, misogyny, self-actualization—but removing them from the context of South Island’s dramatic scenery has somehow neutered their narrative potential.
The Visceral, Woman-Centric Horror of The Handmaid's Tale
It’s by no means the only issue with the series. Set against this much more conventional backdrop, the holes in Campion’s detective story are clearer, but the story and the dialogue have been heightened to the point of absurdist theater, as if to compensate. The first series saw Robin (Moss), a Sydney detective, tasked with finding a missing girl while visiting her hometown. Throughout her investigation, personal and professional concerns became increasingly entangled: The case required Robin to revisit her own sexual assault in high school, she was drugged and assaulted again by a colleague, and a primary suspect in the disappearance was revealed to be her real father. In China Girl, Robin is back in Sydney, four years later, investigating the death of a woman whose body was dumped into the ocean in a suitcase, and who appears, against all odds, to be linked to the daughter Robin gave up for adoption 18 years ago.
The primary antagonist in the show is misogyny, which seemed to have infected Laketop so perniciously in the first season that even an all-women retreat run by the enigmatic GJ (Holly Hunter) couldn’t endure it. “Are you a feminist? Are you a lesbian?” a drinker in the local bar asks Robin early on, before expounding on the sexual superiority of Thai women. Within the tight-knit rural community, which was deeply suspicious of outsiders, the hatred and subjugation of women had coagulated at every level, to the point where Robin’s boss, Detective Sergeant Al Parker (David Wenham) was revealed to be not only a rapist but also the mastermind of a ring of underage prostitutes.
But in China Girl, set in the much larger city of Sydney, the show’s continued presentation of men as rapists, pimps, cheats, and murderers is so committed it starts to become comical. There’s a group of unprepossessing bloggers who run a website for rating sex workers online and meet weekly to debate their favorites (the primary character literally lives in his mother’s basement). Robin’s male colleagues either proposition her or disparage the appearance of her new partner, Miranda (Game of Thrones’s Gwendoline Christie). Even Robin’s ally, a criminal pathologist, fixates on her sex life, telling her he’d marry her if only he had a bigger penis. The real villain, though, is Alexander “Puss” Braun (David Dencik), a German immigrant and former academic who’s cartoonishly evil in a logic-defying way, as if the Joker ran a brothel and groomed underage girls for the sole purpose of torturing their parents.
As despairing as they are about toxic masculinity, the new episodes are fixated on the subject of motherhood—what it means, what it costs, and the lengths women will go to when they’re denied it. Campion based some of this on her own experiences, and the inclusion of her own daughter in the cast, Alice Englert, playing Mary, Robin’s biological daughter, amplifies the energy. Nicole Kidman, a new addition to the show, plays Mary’s adoptive mother, and the tension between the woman who bore a child and the woman who raised her casts an ugly kind of pall over proceedings. “You withheld from her,” Kidman spits in one of the odder scenes, sporting prosthetic teeth and a curly gray wig. “Mothers don’t do that. They reassure their children. That’s what they do.” This accusation—that Robin, who gave up the baby she had after being raped as a teenager, is selfish and a bad mother—is a hard statement to qualify, but it’s far from being the only head-scratcher.
China Girl is full of aphorisms and statements that might be profound if they weren’t so nonsensical. The conversations between Robin and Miranda are particularly dense, as if Pinter were imagining female workplace conflict:
MIRANDA: I’m not your partner! I’m your whipping boy. I have to be hopeless so you can be clever and you can be capable.
ROBIN: I take care. I’m careful with people.
MIRANDA: I’m the one that cares!
ROBIN: No, I can translate. You’re fucking dangerous.
Worse is that Robin, who was so competent while being realistically vulnerable in the first season, is now a grab-bag of clichés about single women in their 30s: hostile, perpetually drunk, and obsessed with her fertility, plagued by recurring dreams about fetuses. Moss, Emmy-nominated for her mesmerizing performance in The Handmaid’s Tale, seems thwarted by the stilted dialogue she’s given here, and her spotty New Zealand accent doesn’t help. Kidman exudes bossy self-absorption as Julia, a devotee of Germaine Greer–feminism who’s consumed with parenting as it relates to her own identity. “Your baby has been loved by me very much, and now she hates me,” she tells Robin, bitterly.
But China Girl’s biggest failing is how it treats its female characters of color. The title refers to the police moniker given to the victim uncovered in the first episode, who was Thai, not Chinese. It’s obvious that Campion is perturbed by the legalized sex industry in Sydney, staffed overwhelmingly by migrants from Asia. In considering it, she makes two storylines converge: The sex workers in Puss’s brothel are also illegally acting as surrogates for infertile white couples. It’s a clumsy plot device, and the point it seems intended to make about Western exploitation of immigrants never comes through. Nor are the Thai characters given the opportunity to become more than window dressing—China Girl offers no context on their histories or feelings or dreams, beyond emphasizing that they mostly hate their jobs. In seeking to expose the ethical failures in how the West profits from foreign labor, Campion unwittingly perpetuates the cycle, giving short shrift to women whose presence merely embellishes the stories of her white characters.
To call Campion a living legend is to understate her achievements. She’s the only woman in film history to win the Palme d’Or at the Cannes Film Festival, which she achieved in 1993 for her Oscar-winning movie The Piano. Her work has consistently documented and mined misogyny as a subject, from her 1996 adaptation of The Portrait of a Lady, also starring Kidman, to her 2003 thriller In the Cut. The first season of Top of the Lake, which functioned perfectly as a standalone work, was subtle and nuanced enough to point out how hatred of women can become engrained in communities at every level. China Girl, removed from the enclosed landscape of Laketop, loses its distinctive visual environment (the cinematographer on the first season was Adam Arkapaw, who didn’t return for the second). But it also loses the sense of magical realism and willing suspension of disbelief that setting provided. The ending of the final episode points to a third installment of Top of the Lake, although at this point fans of the first season might be more inclined to pretend the second never happened.


Updated on September 12 at 11:24 a.m. ET
Since the “relaunch” of the Star Wars franchise—a yearly onslaught of sequels and spinoffs under the umbrella of Disney and the mega-producer Kathleen Kennedy—the hefty price paid to George Lucas for the films has looked eminently worthwhile. Star Wars: The Force Awakens made $2 billion worldwide in 2015. Rogue One took another $1 billion in 2016. Episode VIII, The Last Jedi, should earn somewhere between those two totals this year, and there are many more projects along the way guaranteed to print money. Star Wars remains the strongest brand in Hollywood. The only victims of its sale to Disney, thus far, have been young, up-and-coming directors.
More than two years ago, Kennedy hired Colin Trevorrow, the director of Jurassic World (the fourth-highest grossing film in cinema history), to complete her Star Wars sequel trilogy as the writer and director of the still untitled Episode IX. Given his success wrangling one complicated franchise, his ascendancy to Star Wars seemed logical, and Kennedy praised him as an “incredible talent” and “skilled filmmaker” in announcing the hire. Last week, Trevorrow was fired, a decision characterized by Kennedy as “mutual” but reported as being entirely unilateral. It was announced Tuesday that J. J. Abrams, who helmed The Force Awakens, would be replacing him. Trevorrow is the fourth director Kennedy has reportedly outright dismissed since she took charge of Star Wars, and the most high-profile to date. The move is the clearest confirmation yet of who the real auteurs are in 21st-century Hollywood: the franchise producers.
The Book of Henry Is a Warped Nightmare of a Movie
That’s not to say Kennedy is dictating exact instructions to each of her directors. But like Kevin Feige (the producer overseeing the Marvel films), John Lasseter (in charge of Disney and Pixar animation), Jason Blum (the mogul behind almost every horror film hit of recent years), and Toby Emmerich (the chief content officer at Warner Bros.), the buck stops with Kennedy on every major decision, and she sets the overall tone of the franchise, a multi-billion dollar enterprise of major importance to Disney’s shareholders. Producers have always been crucial in Hollywood. But not since the industry’s “Golden Age” of the ’30s, ’40s, and ’50s have individual executives wielded so much influence.
That’s been apparent on Star Wars from the minute Kennedy took control. Her first hire, Abrams, was an experienced Hollywood producer and director who had already worked on big franchises like Mission: Impossible and Star Trek, who helped deliver a crowd-pleasing movie on a tight schedule after the film’s original script, by Michael Arndt, was hastily revamped. (In a statement announcing Abrams’s return, Kennedy said, “With The Force Awakens, J.J. delivered everything we could have possibly hoped for.”) But aside from Abrams, Kennedy’s initial hires for Star Wars were the same brand of young, up-and-coming directors who had made their name quickly and shown some promise with larger-scale genre work.
Rian Johnson, picked for Episode VIII, burst onto the scene with the indie noir Brick in 2005 and had gotten raves and solid box-office totals for his time-travel drama Looper (2012). Trevorrow, similarly, emerged with a small-budget indie (also about time travel) called Safety Not Guaranteed in 2012, which he parlayed into the moneymaking sensation Jurassic World. Gareth Edwards, hired to helm the gritty spinoff Rogue One, had made the well-liked indie Monsters in 2010 and then jumped to the awe-inspiring Godzilla in 2014. Josh Trank, hired for an untitled spinoff, had the found-footage superhero film Chronicle under his belt and was busy with a Fantastic Four reboot. Phil Lord and Chris Miller, picked for a Han Solo spinoff film, started out in animation and then turned the 21 Jump Street reboot into a surprise hit.
Of all the directors I just named, only Johnson has emerged unscathed (The Last Jedi is due out in December after a drama-free production). Edwards did get to make Rogue One, but the film was extensively reshot by the director Tony Gilroy (Michael Clayton) with a number of scenes, including the ending, reportedly being changed wholesale. Lord and Miller were fired in the middle of production on their Han Solo movie, due out next summer, over Kennedy’s apparent dissatisfaction with their reliance on improvisation and goofy tone (Ron Howard was hired as their replacement). Trank never even got to make his movie, losing the gig after the calamitous release of his Fantastic Four (he said he stepped down because he wanted a lower profile). And now Trevorrow, who had been writing story treatments for Episode IX with his usual collaborator Derek Connolly, is gone.
The actual reasons for Trevorrow’s departure are still being dug into by industry reporters, but the fact that his latest film The Book of Henry was critically derided this summer certainly didn’t help matters. According to Vulture’s Chris Lee, that catastrophe might have started the ball rolling on Trevorrow’s dismissal, but he wrote that Trevorrow’s ego played an even bigger role. “When the reviews for Book of Henry came out, there was immediately conjecture that Kathy was going to dump him because they weren’t thrilled with working with him anyway,” an anonymous executive claims in the story. “He’s a difficult guy. He’s really, really, really confident. Let’s call it that.”
It is hardly shocking news that a film director might perhaps be egotistical, especially after the blazing success of Jurassic World. Hollywood is a business where directors are always given incredible amounts of power, overseeing every creative decision in a project that can cost hundreds of millions of dollars. Perhaps Trevorrow was especially guilty of hubris, but if Hollywood were to fire every director that was overly confident in his (or, sadly much more rarely, her) own abilities, it would quickly find itself out of working directors.
The problem was not just Trevorrow’s intellectual vanity or inability to collaborate. His firing is also a symptom of the new way of doing business, where franchise directors have to defer creatively to their producers on a scale that’s unusual even by Hollywood standards. If Episode IX were just one movie, Kennedy’s role would be different—she’d be working more directly to help along Trevorrow’s vision, and to help him finance and mount whatever big artistic ideas he had for the project. But Episode IX is just another in an endless series of money-makers, and Trevorrow was one easily replaceable cog in a machine.


This post contains spoilers through Season 2, Episode 8 of Insecure.
It was the conversation that had been building since the beginning of Insecure: Issa and Lawrence having the heart-to-heart they’d been needing to have since even before they broke up—in the now-gleaming kitchen of the apartment they had shared for so many years. “I’m sorry,” Lawrence said. “For not being who you expected me to be. Who I expected me to be.”
“I wanted to be better for you,” Issa replied. “Because of you.”
And then: “Lawrence, I still love you so much.”
And then: “I love you, too.”
Insecure’s Nuanced Take on Singleness
It was soft and honest and cathartic. It was a repetition of the kitchen scene shared by Lawrence and Aparna—the latter, like Issa, perched precariously on the counter—earlier in the episode, Insecure’s Season 2 finale. But, now, the couple in question was Issa and Lawrence. And the two, having said what needed to be said, embraced, for a time that was long and meaningful and laden with what ifs. Were they getting back together? Were they finding, finally, some closure? Were they becoming friends?
“So ... I’m gonna head out,” Lawrence says.
“Okay,” Issa replies, hesitantly. They walk out of the kitchen. Lawrence steps out of the apartment’s doorway, into the open air outside. “Bye, Issa,” he says.
And then: He steps back into the apartment. He drops to his knee, in the doorway. He tells Issa he can’t imagine his life without her. He asks her to marry him. She giddily accepts. She looks at the camera, directly. And then the frames flash forward: to Issa in a wedding dress, cuddling with a suit-clad Lawrence on the blue couch they’d bought together. Issa with a swollen abdomen. The couple bringing the new baby into the same spot where Lawrence had proposed: that doorway, that place of there and not-there, that space of possibility both embraced and foreclosed. Issa looks at the camera again.
And then the scene’s action flashes back to the current moment, to that same threshold: to Lawrence, standing on the one side of the doorway, and Issa, standing on the other. The two, so very close, and so very not. “Bye, Issa,” Lawrence says again. And then he walks away. The future(s) will not come to pass, at least not now.
I believe the critical term for the emotional arc of this series of scenes is aaaaahhhhh. Insecure has, from the beginning, made artistic use of such gut-wrenching, fourth-wall-bending fakery: The show is extremely skilled at subverting audience expectations and exploring that blunt but fine line between what is and what might be. Lawrence, at the end of Insecure’s first-season finale, in that other apartment, in that other bed. Issa, in the show’s second-season premiere, having that heady conversation with her estranged ex—but only, it will turn out, in her mind. It’s a technique that takes that core element of the literary romantic—the pathos of the paths not taken—and makes it cinematic.
Insecure’s Season 2 finale is titled “Hella Perspective,” and it’s fitting: This is a piece of television devoted, explicitly, to the exploration of points of view. The episode, in an extremely literal interpretation of its title, on the one hand uses the frame that so many sitcoms have before: the multi-perspectival one. “30 Days With Lawrence,” it begins, via title card. And, later: “30 Days with Molly.” And “30 Days With Issa.” But that frame itself, it turns out, is another fakeout: “Hella Perspective” is not an episode told, strictly, from the differing points of view of those differing characters—an act of aesthetic empathy along the lines of You’re the Worst’s “Twenty-Two” or Master of None’s “New York, I Love You” or pretty much any episode of Orange Is the New Black—so much as it is one that adopts a more sweeping sense of possibility: the kind traditionally seen in science fiction. The stuff of Star Trek and Stargate and Doctor Who. The alternative-reality impulse that has occasionally been adopted by sitcoms and cinema, but that is extremely difficult to execute in a manner that isn’t also swathed hopelessly in Sliding Doors cliche: one fate versus another, pop philosophy in action.
For Insecure, though, an exploration of what might be—and what will never come to pass—makes a fitting conclusion for a season that has, from its outset, cared so much about the dynamics of possibility itself. Issa and Lawrence. Or Issa and Daniel. Or Issa and Eddie. And also: Molly and Lionel. Or Molly and Dro. Or Molly and Quentin. Each one, after all, is not merely a romantic pairing; it is also a path. It is a direction a life might take: marriages, children, fates individual and collective, doors passed through and shut. Insecure is a show that is deeply interested in the trajectories of fate—in how small events can escalate to become big ones, in how life can change in an instant. In ways that are immediately obvious, and ways that will reveal themselves in their fullness only much later. This is one of the things that makes Insecure at once sitcomic and exceptionally poetic: Two roads diverged. Waiting with myself. In a minute there is time for decisions and revisions which a minute will reverse.
And, of course, that sense of twisted fate is not merely a matter of the show’s romantic plotlines. Lawrence gets pulled over, and he drops his credit card as he’s getting his license out, and everything changes from there. Kelli gets her period during the race she’s running, and all her training is rendered useless in an instant. Issa ends Season 2 confronting the door-framed logic of decision-making: She’s unclear about the future of her job. She’s unclear about her living situation. Molly is deciding between staying at her current job—a job where she is not respected as she deserves—and moving on to another one. So many people here are caught in the in-between, weighing options, choosing fates. And so many things are, too. Inglewood is being gentrified (“I-wood!” a perky future barista informs Issa). Even the show’s media environment is exploring—via Due North, Insecure’s brilliant show-within-a-show—alternative realities. “Hella Perspective” is an episode, and Insecure is a show, in many ways about the frustrations of flux: That life is a series of choices means also that it is a series of rejected possibilities.
Little surprise, then, that doorways have factored so prominently in the show—that thresholds have served as locations for some of Insecure’s most dramatic and pivotal scenes. They are powerful in that way—as places that divide the public from the private. As spaces that bring people together, and that enforce separation. Doors are constantly opening in this show, and it’s often a mystery who will be on the other side; doors are constantly closing, too. The doorway is where Lawrence and Issa have come together; it is where, in the place where he might have proposed, he said goodbye. “There’s a medical term called ‘magical thinking,’” Dr. Pine tells Molly, early in Insecure’s second season. The therapist observes that Molly frames much of her life with “should,” when there’s so much more power in the “could.” Who can blame her, though? The “could” can be stifling. The “could” can be overwhelming. The “could” is there and not there, a door that is always ajar, a spectral reminder of all that is not but might have been.


Yorgos Lanthimos first gained international recognition as a Greek filmmaker with a taste for a particular sort of black comedy, making movies (including Kinetta, Alps, and 2009’s Oscar-nominated Dogtooth) that had one foot in science fiction and another in body horror, and yet still managed to provoke laughs with nightmare scenarios. He broke out in 2015 with The Lobster, starring Colin Farrell and Rachel Weisz, a surreal epic set in a world where single people are sent to a hotel to try and find love, and are condemned to be turned into an animal of their choice should they fail. At once sweetly heartbreaking and mesmerizingly disturbing, the film was a cult hit that got a surprise Oscar nomination for Best Original Screenplay.
Lanthimos’s newest film, The Killing of a Sacred Deer, re-teams him with Farrell in a very different role: While Farrell played the loveless sad-sack protagonist of The Lobster, here he’s a successful heart surgeon named Steven who has a beautiful wife (played by an eminently poised Nicole Kidman), two children, and an expensive home. Steven takes the teenager Martin (Barry Keoghan) under his wing after the death of Martin’s father on his operating table, and things turn sinister as the teen begins to exact an elemental sort of revenge, forcing Steven to make a frightening choice about the future of his family.
The film has all the hallmarks of a Lanthimos movie, including his curious skill with dialogue (his characters usually speak long, expository sentences with a flat, affected monotone) and his taste for macabre plotting. But it also feels like a fascinating new step for the director, one more heavily steeped in gothic drama than bizarre comedy, announcing itself with a startling opening shot of real-life open-heart surgery. I spoke to Lanthimos about his idea of the film ahead of its North American debut at the Toronto International Film Festival (it is scheduled for U.S. release on October 27). This interview has been edited for clarity and length.
David Sims: I have to tell you, I saw the film a few days ago, and I had very strange dreams that night.
Yorgos Lanthimos: Good, so we went straight to the subconscious, then.
Sims: Did you first come to The Killing of a Sacred Deer thinking about this terrible choice Colin Farrell’s character has to make?
Lanthimos: I think the initial thoughts were around the oddity of a very young person (Martin) trying to get revenge over something an older person has done. And that kind of dynamic, that a teenager can actually terrorize someone grown-up and mature. And, also, the themes of justice and the ambiguity of the situation we choose to put [Farrell’s] character in. He’s a doctor, and whether or not there was any fault, that kind of ambiguity, leading into impossible questions and dilemmas. It’s hard to say one particular thing that sparked the idea, because I work very closely with Efthymis [Filippou]; we write the scripts together, and it’s mostly a dialogue. We start discussing a situation, one says one thing, one says another thing, and it just progresses around ideas we’re interested in.
Sims: Martin—when he presents the rules of this scenario Steven is trapped in—feels like a sort of Rumpelstiltskin, or any sort of demonic figure in fairy tales.
Lanthimos: We didn’t set out to create such a specific association or atmosphere—it was mostly about trying to make this young boy, this teenager, feel both as a young, innocent boy and as someone who’s very mature, with tremendous power over other people. We’re trying to create a balance, which you don’t find everyday in life. We didn’t want him to appear as evil or naïve; we wanted an ambiguity, with elements that you understand. Up to a point, you go with him, and you identify with him and his pain.
Sims: There are all these shots of long hallways, of the camera gliding behind characters. The camera is in motion a lot here, unlike your other films.
Lanthimos: You are right, there’s much more movement than in any of my previous films. I never think about it much, the visual aspect of it, until we start making the movie. I don’t really think about it when we write. When we finish, and I start putting the film together, and we pick the locations, I do think about that a lot. On this one, I just felt the need for the camera to be almost like another entity, in some ways. Like there’s another, otherworldly presence—very discreetly. I thought of these high angles, or very low angles, with the camera following people around, creeping from below or above. That was the initial feel that I thought was fitting to the whole story. And then you face actual hospitals, they have long corridors, so obviously you work with that. What you thought of as an initial approach takes shape because of your surroundings.
Sims: You do an excellent job capturing what can be a little frightening about a hospital: that it can be a little too clean, that it can be eerily quiet.
Lanthimos: The most important thing for me about the hospital was that it looked state-of-the-art and new, that it wasn’t a Gothic-type old hospital. Both as a juxtaposition to the genre the film flirts with, but also in terms of the story, that was the most important part for me. I wanted nobody to think that this was a terrible hospital, and that’s why nobody’s figuring out what’s wrong. It needed to feel like all the scientific resources were there, that Colin’s a successful surgeon who knows what he’s doing.
Sims: You capture that in his home, as well—that everything looks so pristine and modern and very classy and expensive, that despite all of that, there’s nothing he can do as his children begin to get sick. Which is very scary!
Lanthimos: Yeah, you feel helpless.
Sims: But this movie more exists in ‘the real world,’ versus something like The Lobster. Were you thinking of larger world-building, or was that less of a concern?
Lanthimos: No, you’re right, The Lobster is very particular, and we did need to create a very specific world with specific rules so the whole premise would work. But the way we thought about this story, it seemed it would take place in the normal world; well, the world that we know. [Laughs.] I don’t know that it’s normal, but the world that we live in. Within this world that we’re familiar with, something odd and otherworldly happens. So it was important that it felt like the real world, so that the situation did seem extreme and strange and impossible to deal with.
Sims: Did you always figure on casting Colin again?
Lanthimos: No, we wrote this [movie] after The Lobster, but as with the visual stuff, I don’t think about actors or anything else while we’re writing the script. I try to keep the process quite separate, so that I’m open to anything. But I had a great experience working with Colin on The Lobster, and it seemed like an excellent fit. It’s quite a different role from The Lobster, quite more challenging and complex. It’s also great to create these kinds of relationships and then try to evolve with the other people and try to do different things. Next time, things are easier and you can go further.
Sims: It is a very different role in The Killing of a Sacred Deer. In The Lobster, he’s very befuddled, it’s a more outwardly comedic character, while here his character is on top of the world. What kind of an impression did you want him to give at the start of the movie?
Lanthimos: We don’t talk much; I try not to say too many things with the actors. Not to analyze too many things about the film, because I think it’s better for the process. The way I work, and the material we work with, I think if you analyze too much and have too many specific ideas, it just becomes a little bit too superficial, and then performances might become too self-conscious and project relatively narrow things. Whereas I cherish ambiguity, and surprise, and actors that are present in the moment, and not trying to get through particular ideas in the scene, or in the moment. That approach limits the resonance of scenes in general. So I do try to stay away, as much as possible, from having too many detailed discussions about what it is, and what the character is. Definitely no background story—all I know is what’s on the page.
And of course, Colin knows that, from working together before. So he did have questions at the beginning, probably something like what you said. The only thing I remember, the only thing we discussed, is he said, “This is more of a grounded world, right? It’s more real?” And I said, “Yeah, yeah. But, you know.” And he said, “Yeah, I know.” He’s a very smart guy, he has a great sense of humor, he gets our work, and he gets the material. You don’t have to go into great length trying to explain it or figure it out. It’s just about fine-tuning, about helping the actors find the right volume, or tone, or speed. So I work more in physical ways like that. Usually, I say, “This is too loud, or too slow,” I never go too intellectual with their performances.
Sims: There is a particular rhythm to your dialogue and how it’s delivered. So I assume you take care that everything is said in that rhythm.
Lanthimos: Yeah. That’s partially true, but I think the writing and the material also has a very strong imprint, it’s kind of there. All the talented and smart actors, they get it; as soon as it comes out of their mouth, they know if it’s right or wrong. If the writing has a particular voice, they get it, and they can hit it. I’ve been very lucky, and I’ve worked with great actors, and actors that know and appreciate my previous work, and that helps a lot as well. They’re aware of the universe, though every film is different, obviously. But I think they understand the intention.
Sims: Was that true of Nicole Kidman? Was she acquainted with your work?
Lanthimos: It was a similar situation; she was aware of my work, and we had met a couple of times before. Obviously, I admire her very much, and she’d seen some of my films, and we met and were always talking about doing something together. We started sending out the script, she read it and texted me saying, “I love it, and I want to do it.” And I just replied, “Okay.” And that was it! And the experience was great. She’s extremely committed and hard-working and talented, obviously. It was just about fine-tuning all these things. And she had a great relationship with Colin, and they went on, after we wrapped, a few weeks later they were on another set together [in The Beguiled].
Sims: Have you seen it?
Lanthimos: No, I want to watch it!
Sims: I was also very happy to see Alicia Silverstone, in that one important scene as Martin’s mother. She’s an actress I’ve loved for a long time, and you don’t see her on screen as much these days. Were you thinking of her, when it came time to cast the movie?
Lanthimos: I have to say, I didn’t! My casting director thought of her. As you said, I was a huge fan; I’d seen Clueless when I was a teenager a thousand times, the Aerosmith music videos, and all that. But because she had fallen off my radar, I didn’t think of her, I’m ashamed to say. But our casting director, Francine [Maisler], I think she saw her in a play, near when we were casting, and as soon as she mentioned her, I said, “Yes! Let’s do that!” And she was amazing, it’s perfect. She came in and out, unfortunately only for a day, but it was really fun to do it with her.
Sims: That first shot of The Killing of a Sacred Deer, of open-heart surgery on an operating table, really announces the film in a particular way. What were you thinking when you decided to open the film that way?
Lanthimos: I wasn’t thinking, really. [Laughs.] It just felt right—a film about a heart surgeon opens with a heart. And as you get into it, you think about the most impactful way of doing that, and the simplest way, at the same time. At the beginning, we wrote this scene that was much more elaborate, with many shots of the doctors, and scalpels, and the machines in the operating theater. But we shot the actual operation first, the shot that is in the film, a few days before principal photography started, because it took a lot of preparation, and there’s a lot of protocol, and everything had to be sterilized. It was the first shot we did, it was the first shot of the film, and as soon as I saw it I just felt that I didn’t need to shoot anything else.


Ten years ago, while sitting at my computer in my sparsely furnished office, I sent my first email to a literary agent. The message included a query letter—a brief synopsis describing the personal-essay collection I’d been working on for the past six years, as well as a short bio about myself. As my third child kicked from inside my pregnant belly, I fantasized about what would come next: a request from the agent to see my book proposal, followed by a dream phone call offering me representation. If all went well, I’d be on my way to becoming a published author by the time my oldest child started first grade.
Things didn’t go as planned. I spent the next several years querying agents while writing other books. I read blogs and interviews to get the latest industry news and figure out which agent was looking for what kind of project. I attended several dozen writers’ conferences, residencies, workshops, craft lectures, book festivals, and readings. I joined critique groups and exchanged work over email with countless writer friends. For my novels, I hired freelance developmental editors (one of them a former senior editor at a major publishing house). I enrolled in and graduated from an MFA program in creative writing. And yes, I did get that coveted offer of representation—twice. My first agent tried her damnedest to sell my second nonfiction book, but after two years we amicably parted ways. My second agent and I weren’t a good fit, so we split up earlier in the process.
Today, six manuscripts languish on my laptop—two nonfiction books, two novels, and two picture books. My older children are now teens, and my youngest, the one I was pregnant with when I started this journey, a fourth grader. In the meantime, I’ve managed to forge a rewarding career as a freelance writer, editor, and teacher. My essays, articles, and book reviews have appeared in publications I could never have dreamed of writing for: The New York Times, The Washington Post, NPR, The Guardian, and NBC. Despite all this, I’m no closer to getting a book deal.
So after 16 years of writing books and 10 years of failing to find a publisher, why do I keep trying? I ask myself this every day.
* * *
My books have been living in my head for more than a decade. I have had tea with the characters, argued with them, and begged them to get over their hang-ups. While writing articles or teaching, I’m simultaneously rethinking passages or entire chapters of my books. A walk through the woods is an excuse for me to mull over how to tighten my prose, increase the suspense, flesh out a scene, or dig deeper emotionally. It’s a dual life, with one foot in reality and the other in the worlds of my stories.
Some of my resolve to get published stems from my ego. Aren’t my words important? Isn’t there something of value here? Wouldn’t this story bring joy or peace to a reader? Another part of me craves having a visceral connection to an audience; it’s isolating to keep these stories to myself, to experience them alone.
I’ve continued to endure the submission process—especially as I’ve grown more disillusioned—in large part because I have the financial means to do so. My spouse’s income and health insurance allow me to manage a chronic medical condition, co-parent three children, write, edit, and teach without needing to hold down an additional job. I can control how often I submit and work around other life obligations.
The truth is, my dedication to getting a book deal has been expensive. Each local writing conference costs about $250, and I’ve attended six. Over the decade, I’ve spent approximately $5,000 paying top-notch editors to carefully critique my work. My two-year, low-residency MFA program cost in the neighborhood of $26,000. Learning about the craft of writing and the business side of publishing can be an outrageously costly endeavor, one that not every writer can afford (or, necessarily, needs).
Over the years, I’ve come to accept the significant roles that luck and timing play in publishing success stories. Sometimes it’s a matter of sending a query at the exact moment an agent or editor is looking for a book about a particular issue. Sometimes it’s about winning a contest or writing an intriguing article or viral blog post that catches the eye of an editor. Indeed, several essays published in The New York Times’s Modern Love column have led to book deals.
One of my books received more than 30 requests for full manuscripts from agents and multiple offers of representation, but my relationship with my agent didn’t work out. Meanwhile, some of my author friends who signed with the first agent they queried ended up with book deals in just months. I remember a conversation I had with a writer friend about four years ago, both of us hungry for contracts. She was impressed that I had already finished multiple books, and was, at the time, represented by a prestigious literary agency. Today, I still don’t have a deal, and her debut novel is coming out next year.
Some 571 million print books were sold in 2015, 17 million more than the year before. In 2016, book sales held steady. Even though the market for books appears, at the very least, to be stable, in the years I’ve tried to sell a manuscript, things seem to have gotten tougher. My writing has improved substantially, but fewer agents and editors are interested in my work.
Keeping perspective has been key for me: remembering that editors and agents are overworked and underpaid, and literary fiction, generally speaking, does not generate big sales. As a result, presses are very selective, even if their criteria can seem opaque. “There aren’t a certain number of slots to be filled, with publishers working to figure out who to stick into those slots,” the literary agent Chip MacGregor wrote in a blog post. “Nearly every publisher I know is simply looking for good books that fit their lines, and that they can sell and make money.”  
Self-publishing can be a popular and accessible option for writers who wish to bypass the traditional route altogether. But while there are some wild success stories in self-publishing, they tend to be genre works—romance, erotica, science fiction, crime, young adult, and Christian lit. I’ve yet to meet an author who felt their self-published literary novel or memoir generated enough sales to make up for the amount of time and money spent marketing them. And as a literary critic, I know that very few editors are willing to run book reviews for self-published works; I don’t want to spend years writing and revising a book if not even my local paper will cover it.
The Book He Wasn't Supposed to Write
When it comes to coping with the stress that inevitably comes with seeking a book deal, writers’ communities are an aspiring author’s life jacket. Whether online or in-person, these groups help us navigate the submission process, set realistic goals, and simply provide sympathy and support. When I first began writing seriously 16 years ago, I attended informal gatherings at writers’ homes and in libraries and bookstores, eventually finding organizations offering more formal craft lectures and workshops. More recently, the explosion of social media has made networking easier. Under the Twitter hashtag #amwriting, writers announce daily word counts, publishing successes, and link to articles about the industry. Facebook performs a similar function. “I’ve curated my Facebook feed so that it’s almost all writers and readers,” said Nayomi Munaweera, the author of the novels Island of a Thousand Mirrors and What Lies Between Us, who submitted for seven and a half years before acquiring a book deal. “I get a great deal of affirmation and support there.”
These online communities can be especially vital for writers from backgrounds that continue to be severely underrepresented in the publishing industry. Twitter hashtags like #DVpit (short for “diversity pitch”) and #OwnVoices help writers from marginalized communities find agents. My own South Asian writing community has helped me through the process of trying to sell a book. We trade horror stories of our experiences with rejection and culturally insensitive comments by agents or editors who express that they wish we wrote more (or less) about racism, featured fewer (or more) non-English words in the manuscript, and questioned why our South Asian characters would eat pizza. But we’re there to cheer each other on, pizza-eating characters and all, finding solidarity and humor in our shared failures.
* * *
“Why am I still trying to get a book deal?” is a question that haunts other writers in my position, too. Bettye Kearse, a retired pediatrician, has been working to get one of her four books published—three picture books and a nonfiction book—since about 2005. “I have thought about quitting,” Kearse told me in an email. “I acknowledge spending 27 years writing and rewriting the same book doesn’t make sense.” Kearse came very close to getting a deal for her nonfiction book, but soon after the acquiring editor sent her a contract, he was fired. “That experience was the worst, to get so close, then to end up with nothing,” Kearse said.
“[Being on submission] was like a slow mauling of my psyche,” another writer, Michael Bourne, told me. A contributing editor to Poets & Writers and a critic for The Globe and Mail, he’s been trying to sell two literary novels on and off since 2004. His second book got him an agent, who then couldn’t sell the work to a publisher. “A week or two would go by, and then, bam, I’d wake up to another email [regarding another rejection] from my agent kicking me in the teeth. When it was all over, I spent a few months staying up late writing sad-boy essays about what it felt like to watch your dreams crash to earth,” Bourne said. But like me, he had found healthy perspective. “I have a solid base of family life and paying work, with enough time to write that I can probably write a book every five years or so,” he said. “I’m fairly confident my work will get published eventually, but if it doesn’t, it won’t kill me. I’m still going to write.”
Despite not getting a book deal after 10 years, I’m happy with the career I’ve built. Rejections still flood my inbox, but my smaller successes go a long way toward offsetting the disappointment. Last year after the presidential election, I decided to shift my priorities, to spend more time volunteering for social causes and political campaigns and less pursuing traditional book publishing. I haven’t stopped submitting, but once a month—and only once a month—I send out a single query letter to an agent or small press. My complicated spreadsheet of submissions collects dust in a filing cabinet. I’ve disappeared from Facebook groups where other aspiring authors recount the highs and lows of submission. By recalibrating, I’ve regained a small amount of control in a process that has very little predictability.
My dream of seeing one of my books sitting on a shelf in a library will never fade completely. Maybe in a few months I’ll ramp up my submissions again. Maybe I’ll maintain this slower approach for the rest of my life. But for now, I’m doing what works for me. It’s not the ending I’d hoped for, but it’s a happier, more balanced path.


The Years With Graydon
David Kamp | Vanity Fair
“There are a lot of people at V.F. who have been with Graydon for all or most of his tenure, and some, like me, who have worked alongside him even longer. You don’t engender that kind of loyalty simply by offering a good benefits package. … Graydon has always possessed a showman’s charisma, a persuasive ability to make you believe, to use one of his stock lines, that This is the best job you’re ever going to have.”
Best Pictures, Maybe, but Telluride Is Not About Oscars
A.O. Scott | The New York Times
“Spending time at a film festival is like living inside an accordion. Time expands and contracts—months are compressed into a few hours of screen time, and a day of screenings lasts a week—and you can’t always extract the music from the noise. The Telluride Film Festival, which spans each Labor Day weekend in this high-altitude former mining town, is an old-time squeeze box wired up to a Dolby sound system.”
John Legend: ‘Trump Is an Embarrassment to the Country’
Lauren Duca | The Guardian
“Legend and [Chrissy] Teigen have a massive amount of agency in their careers, although that doesn’t mean there aren’t compromises. As a mainstream star, Legend is well aware that a careful balance between art and commerce is crucial to his continued success. A lot of artists are rather precious when discussing this aspect of songwriting. Legend is refreshingly frank.”
This Is for Boston
Isaiah Thomas | The Players’ Tribune
“I may act like a tough guy on the court. And I may seem like I have ice in my veins when I’m competing. But it ain’t ice, really. I got blood and I got a heart like everyone else. And so when I say this hurts, man—just know that it isn’t because of anything anyone else did. It’s only because of something I did. I fell in love with Boston.”
Aaron Rodgers and Gossip Girl: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
Kevin Smith’s Celebrity Reboot
Abraham Riesman | Vulture
“Kevin Smith has used his second act to craft a new-model utopia of modern fame, one built on niche interests, a direct line to fans, and an unmistakably unique voice. At one time, Smith seemed to represent a new model of filmmaking: cheap, lewd, bracing, and provocative. Now he’s again at the center of a new model: the business of niche audiences and narrowcasting directly to fans. … He just might exemplify the future of celebrity.”
Christina Tosi Has a Cookie
Mary H.K. Choi | Eater
“As accessible or sentimental as her food tastes, it requires a fiercely analytical and precise mind to make a Milk Bar Birthday Cake reminiscent of an old-school birthday cake from a box. This is why Milk Bar recipes are exhaustive, harrowingly convoluted ways of getting to a particular flavor destination from our collective youths. Liberating textures or flavors that would otherwise stay trapped inside the minds of Nabisco food scientists is not easy.”
Historical Art or Racist Propaganda? How Should Hollywood Handle Problematic Classic Like Gone With the Wind?
Tre’vell Anderson | The Los Angeles Times
“Films ranging from D.W. Griffith’s silent-era The Birth of a Nation (in which members of the Ku Klux Klan are portrayed as heroes) and Nazi sympathizer Leni Riefenstahl’s Triumph of the Will have long been subject to debate. … While these pictures can be considered art and each has historical significance, they can also be recognized as sentimentalizing or implicitly endorsing behavior now thought to be reprehensible.”
The Courageous Radicalism of Kate Millett
Maggie Doherty | New Republic
“Millett didn’t stop at the social; culture, too, played a role in shoring up patriarchy. A Victorianist by training, Millett also analyzed how male writers, both canonical and contemporary, portrayed heterosexual relations; she found that all too often, male literature suggested that men had a right to dominate women—politically, socially, sexually.”


Don’t Miss
The Remarkable Rise of Tiffany Haddish—Michael P. Jeffries writes that the standup and Girls Trip star’s success points to how comedy has—and hasn’t—changed for women and entertainers of color.
Film
Why Is Hollywood Developing Three Different Joker Movies?—David Sims believes the flurry of news about multiple films featuring Batman’s chief villain shows just how desperate the industry is becoming.
33 Movies to Watch This Oscar Season—David Sims looks at the buzzy biopics and indie hits filling theaters over the next few months.
It: A Solid but Conventional Shocker—Christopher Orr thinks the latest adaptation of Stephen King’s classic horror novel privileges CGI scares over dread and nuance.
Rebel in the Rye Is Phony Through and Through—David Sims says Danny Strong’s directorial debut starring Nicholas Hoult as J.D. Salinger misses the mark in trying to capture his unique talent.
TV
The Deuce Is Magnificent Television—Sophie Gilbert enjoys the new HBO show from David Simon and George Pelecanos, calling it the rightful heir to The Wire.
David Lynch Found the Perfect Ending for Twin Peaks—David Sims wraps up the 18-episode Showtime revival, which gave audiences both a tidy conclusion and a messy, dreamlike unraveling of everything that came before it.
Turning the Trump Era Into a Horror Story—Spencer Kornhaber ponders the FX anthology series AHS: Cult, which channels liberal anxieties for a gory, queasy romp.
29 New TV Shows to Watch This Fall—Sophie Gilbert breaks down the upcoming additions to an already packed television schedule, including The Deuce, American Horror Story, and Alias Grace.
Music
The National’s Super-Political Love Songs—Spencer Kornhaber talks to the singer and lyricist Matt Berninger about his band’s adventurous, election-influenced new album.
29 New Albums to Listen to This Fall—Spencer Kornhaber previews the most anticipated records of the season, from Miley Cyrus to Kamasi Washington.
Art
The Sad, Ecstatic Passions of Carol Rama—Jane Yong Kim reviews an exhibit focused on the self-taught Italian artist who explored the female body and its social context with curiosity and urgency.
Writing
More Than 100 Exceptional Works of Journalism—Conor Friedersdorf rounds up fantastic nonfiction from 2016 that’s still worth discovering and pondering today.
Theater
The Ferryman: Jez Butterworth on the Legacy of Hate—Sophie Gilbert watches the playwright and screenwriter’s new London hit, which is set during the Troubles in 1981 Ireland but considers timeless issues.
Sports
The Four Quarterbacks to Watch This NFL Season—Robert O’Connell highlights a rookie, a comeback hopeful, a virtuoso, and an all-time great as the players fans should be paying attention to in the coming year.


Midway through the first episode of The Deuce, premiering on HBO Sunday night, Candy (Maggie Gyllenhaal), a veteran sex worker, explains to a nervous teenage client whose encounter with her has ended prematurely why he can’t try again without paying for it. “It doesn’t seem fair,” the boy complains, evolving from shy nervousness to nasty petulance in a blink. Candy asks what his father does, and when the teenager replies that he owns a car dealership, she issues a free lesson in the principles of work. If his father sells a car, she explains, “he doesn’t give the easy customer two cars for the price of one, right? This is my job, Stewart.”
It’s a scene that’s characteristic of David Simon. Candy, distilling the tenets of capitalism from micro to macroeconomics, could be Stringer Bell lecturing street dealers on supply and demand. And The Deuce, like The Wire, is about infinitely more than the industry it’s profiling—in this case, sex in 1970s Times Square rather than drugs in early-aughts Baltimore. There are familiar faces, too (the kick from seeing Cheese and Chris Partlow in bell-bottoms would be worth the HBO subscription alone). But it’s in the scope of its story and the complexity of its characters that The Deuce (created by Simon and George Pelecanos) comes the closest to Simon’s earlier masterpiece. It’s about the sex trade, but also about the weirdness of human sexuality; there are Mafiosi gangsters, and corrupt cops, and selfish journalists, and new pornographers. The playing field is different but the game—and the rules—are the same.
29 New TV Shows to Watch This Fall
That’s not to say it’s perfect. The eight episodes that make up the first season are clear preamble for the main story to be told later, a maddening hallmark of streaming shows that appears to be catching on with episodic TV. The fact that James Franco plays not one primary character but two—twin brothers Vincent and Frankie Martino—feels intended to make some kind of point about duality and nature/nurture that’s presumably being saved for a subsequent season. Visually, though, the show is richer than anything Simon’s done before, thanks in large part to Michelle MacLaren, the Breaking Bad and Game of Thrones alumna who directed the first and last episode. Painstakingly, with everything from typography to body hair, the show recreates 1971 Midtown Manhattan in all its seamy, squalid disorder.
The 90-minute pilot, made available to stream in August, is maybe the series’s finest episode, setting up the manifold characters and their various arcs with a structure that loosens considerably later on. In the first scene, a drunken man in a bar cajoles the woman he’s sitting with to “give me something I can’t get at home”—an early explanation for the thriving prostitution industry in the stretch of 42nd Street known as “the Deuce.” Vincent (James Franco), the bartender, works double shifts in bars on both sides of the river to support his feckless wife (Zoe Kazan) and their two children. He’s further beleaguered by his twin brother Frankie (also Franco), a profligate gambler who’s distinguishable from Vincent only in his gum chewing and his radiant, jittery douchebag energy.
Thanks to his night job in a Korean restaurant near Times Square, Vincent is well acquainted with the pimps, panderers, and professionals who work nearby: C.C. (Gary Carr), a genial smooth-talker; Larry (Gbenga Akinnagbe), a surlier but more conflicted individual; Rodney (Method Man/Clifford Smith); Reggie Love (Tariq “Black Thought” Trotter); and Gentle Richie (Matthew James Ballinger), the lone white guy, a hippie prone to spouting aphorisms about capitalism. The men engage in banter about politics and business (Nixon, Rodney and Larry agree in one scene, is a pimp himself), and they physically and emotionally abuse their stables of women, from the budding reader Darlene (Show Me a Hero’s Dominique Fishback) to the deceptively savvy newcomer Lori (Emily Meade).
Just as The Wire manipulated prurient curiosity about drug dealers in decaying Baltimore communities to slyly make points about social inequity and injustice, The Deuce relies on a titillating subject—sex for sale—to hook viewers. But the sex on display is anything but arousing. The show (like the recent Hulu drama Harlots) navigates a complicated path between showing the reality of sex work and somehow keeping the action from being impossibly depressing. It’s as often funny as it’s brutal, and yet the two modes don’t undermine each other. Candy’s initiation into the world of porn, for example, is a money shot that involves cold Campbell’s potato soup and a Macgyvered pumping device.
There are labyrinthine plots and subplots involving an honest cop, Officer Alston (Lawrence Gilliard Jr., a.k.a. D’Angelo Barksdale), an ambitious reporter (Natalie Paul), an outspoken NYU student (Margarita Levieva), and a Mafia capo (Michael Rispoli) who engages Vincent and Frankie in his bid to clean up Times Square—by moving the street action into lucrative indoor parlors. Franco, who directs the third episode, anchors the action, making Vincent plausibly decent, although possessing some less obvious flaws. But it’s Gyllenhaal, as Candy, who takes the series to a different level. She’s luminous onscreen, exuding Candy’s washed-out, sluggish demeanor, her world-weariness, and the unexpected energy she derives from making films—not as a star, but as a creator. In many of her scenes, Candy is seen by viewers as a reflection looking into a mirror, ostensibly tweaking her makeup or covering bruises, but the image that comes across is of someone trying to really perceive what she’s become.
Before agreeing to play Candy, Gyllenhaal reportedly asked for some influence over her character, and it’s her scenes that take the show in its most explicitly feminist direction. Simon and Pelecanos seem to have realized, too, that a show about the sex trade needs to have a strong female point of view. (“We realized, to try to do the story, two middle-aged straight guys, it just wasn’t going to work with just us,” Pelecanos told UpRoxx’s Alan Sepinwall.) There’s a riotous scene in the diner where the women disgust their pimps by talking about their periods, but there’s also a deeply rooted sympathy for the reality, the tedium, and the danger of their daily lives. The Deuce is unfailingly candid and thoughtful about misogyny, and the legion forms in which it manifests.
This narrative nuance is all wrapped up in an aesthetic that’s part Taxi Driver, part Super Fly. The gaudy ostentatiousness of the era helps communicate Simon’s point that the core of the sex industry is exploitation, and it filters from top to bottom, with hardly anyone empowered. Vincent persuades his waitresses to wear leotards to bring in business; Candy seduces shy actresses to get a better take; the mobsters give the women safer environments to work in so they can take a cut of their labor. In the final episode, Lori observes Linda Lovelace (Heather Cole), starry-eyed, and imagines the promise and liberation of porn’s golden age. The kicker is that Simon, and his viewers, really know what happened next.


I spoke with Matt Berninger of The National on August 21, just as the solar eclipse was casting its shadow over the eastern United States. He’d been on the phone most of the day in Los Angeles and missed the celestial phenomenon, but nonetheless had a metaphor for the moment. “When Trump won it felt like the sky changed color a little bit, and literally that’s what’s happening right now as we speak,” he said with a laugh. “It’s pretty creepy.”
The National have been putting out albums of sumptuous, introspective rock for 16 years, and their seventh, Sleep Well Beast, should continue to grow their acclaim and fandom. It should also continue to get the band and its distinctively deep-voiced singer tagged as “gloomy,” a fair description given the album’s stated theme of divorce and straightforwardly devastating highlights like “Empire Line” and “Guilty Party.” But Sleep Well Beast, out Friday, is also one of The National’s liveliest albums yet, featuring pitter-pattering drum machines, scorching guitar licks, and Berninger experimenting with delivery styles.

One of the best lyricists of this era, Berninger writes in free-associative code that, with repeated listening, reveals fine portraits of self-doubt and desperation. Until talking with him, I hadn’t realized just how much of Sleep Well Beast had been shaped by recent politics. The National campaigned for both Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, and Berninger believes that the same dark, personal impulses he always sings about can explain Donald Trump’s rise. This conversation has been edited.
Kornhaber: There’s a sample or spoken-word segment about “the reality-based community” losing their power on the Sleep Well Beast track “Walk It Back.” What is that?
Berninger: Well, according to Wikipedia, it’s Karl Rove who said that to [the journalist] Ron Suskind, but I don’t think he officially admits to having said that. After Trump won, I just chewed on it over and over again. It’s basically someone saying, “Yeah, we know what we’re doing. If we can control people’s understanding of what is true then we get to do whatever the fuck we want.” That’s been the secret strategy for a long, long time.
Kornhaber: So what is that quote doing on what sounds, to me, like a song about a relationship?
Berninger: I don’t think of one song as being a relationship song and one being a politics song. It’s one big giant bowl of stuff for me. “Fake Empire” [from 2007’s Boxer] is a political song, but it’s also a song about getting fucked up and avoiding responsibility in life. It’s a drinking song, too.
Politics is personal. I don’t understand why people separate love and politics in their art—and I don’t know who does. We don’t expect people who write novels to be like, “Oh, this chapter is the political chapter and over here is the love chapter.”  Somewhere along the line, musicians felt it was uncool to be political. It never made any sense to me. Who’s cooler than Nina Simone? And why would you take it out of your toolbox of stuff to write about?
Kornhaber: But when you think about the world, you think about the dynamics of politics being the same as the dynamics of relationships?
Berninger: How you respect yourself or someone else in the most immediate relationship is political. If somebody sitting next to you in a movie theater is eating popcorn in a way that bugs you, your choice to go, “ugh, shut up,” or your choice not to do that is political. How you treat your wife is political.
LCD Soundsystem's Oddly Inspiring Flip-Flop
I’m a big believer that the tiniest little things you do have a significant effect: “I’ll do the brave, kind thing versus the self-serving, ego-driven fear thing that gets me the piece of pizza or the tax cut or anything else.” When you choose to do the small thing, the petty thing, the selfish thing, it affects everything.
If you go out and look at political songs and political signs, so many of them come back to the same thing about kindness and gentle hearts. So love songs are super political to me, and political songs are super romantic.
Kornhaber: You sing a lot about sleep on this album. It’s in the title, the first single is about dreaming, and you seem to be addressing someone who’s asleep a lot of the time. What are you getting at?
Berninger: Trauma causes lots of reactions, and a lot of times we have to shut down for a while. I was kind of fascinated with that. There’s a time where you stare at the ceiling and think, “If I can just get some sleep, when I wake up something will have resolved itself.” And often it helps! Dreams are a way of expressing some dark fear we’ve got to get out one way or another.
In that sense we are in some sort of bad dream right now—I mean that kind of literally. Our American conscience went to a very sleepy place, and we allowed Donald Trump to become our president. It’s not just America; we’ve all been letting the planet get so sick. The beast [as in “Sleep Well Beast”] is the future, the truth. It’s about to come back, I hope.
Kornhaber: On a songwriting level, I listen to a song like “Guilty Party” and it feels so much more direct than some of your past work. Is that true or am I missing something?
Berninger: That’s an example of a song where it’s a real simple thing: Unpack one little idea and all the shades of that idea. “Guilty Party,” that’s a breakup song. It’s kind of about my marriage, but my wife and I are not broken up, and I think we have a healthy marriage most days. It’s also kind of about the band—that’s a relationship that is hard to maintain and not lose sight of why you’re doing it. So “marriage” comprises a lot of different things.  The tone was intentionally supposed to be kind of unencumbered by flourishes, and I didn’t want to overwrite.
There’s a sketch called “Black Barn” that split into two different songs, “Sleep Well Beast” and “Guilty Party.” They’re the same beat but the one [count] is in the different place. “Guilty Party” is like the good-looking, popular twin. I hear that and instantly I’m like, “That song just works.” Whereas “Sleep Well Beast” is the moody twin that sits in the corner and reads books and doesn’t try to date the prettiest girl in the class.

Kornhaber: Can you talk about the dynamic of writing with your wife [Carin Besser, co-credited for all the lyrics and melodies on Sleep Well Beast]? Is it therapeutic or tension-causing or both?
Berninger: Obviously both. We started writing together the minute we started dating. “What do you do?” “Oh, I make websites and rock songs and martinis. What do you make?” [She] was a poet and a writer and an editor. So we just started sharing our creative stuff right away. I would let her listen to demos, and she’d give ideas on how to make it better on every level.
Here’s an example. “The System Only Dreams in Total Darkness” was a totally different song. We were supposed to be finished with it, and the band was fighting about what was wrong with it. It was late in New York and it was a little earlier in L.A., and she called me and she said, “You know, I think the problem with that one is the lyrics.” She went and opened up old Garage Band sessions and found something where I mumbled about the system sleeping in darkness. She was like, “That’s a way better chorus, let’s build from there.”

She’s outside of the crucible, and the other guys know she makes me way better as a writer. She’s had two nicknames. One has been Yoko, ever since we met, and that sometimes stings and sometimes it’s fun. We all have hurtful nicknames for each other. But they also refer to her as The Oracle.
Kornhaber: Who is Valentine Jester [a name mentioned on the new song “Day I Die” and 2005’s “Val Jester”]? Is that a real uncle of yours?
Berninger: Yeah, my mom’s uncle. He was a bachelor who moved in with my mom’s mom and lived with her the whole time I knew him. He loved television, dominoes, and beer. And for some reason I always write about him. He was always a sweet, happy man—but too many beers he would turn into a cranky guy who didn’t want to hang out at the family reunion. He loved to skip the fuck out. I’ve always respected that. He didn’t want to do what everybody thought he should do in his life.
Kornhaber: Why keep invoking him?
Berninger: He’s a spirit animal a little bit. I didn’t know him well, but he’s a character in my brain, the idea of my uncle Valentine Jester. I can’t even remember how old I was when he died. I don’t know how old he was either. But he had a profound effect. That, for me, is afterlife, y’know? That’s heaven.
Kornhaber: I want to ask about white maleness.
Berninger: Excellent, yes!
Kornhaber: Some people, not all of whom are fans of yours, have held you guys up as a very stereotypical kind of white male band. I’ve picked up on a little self-awareness about that through your whole career, but what do you think?
Berninger: No one needs any more of our stories. Everyone knows what it’s like to be a white man, because every lead actor in 99 percent of stories being told has been a white man. So yes, I’m very conscious of it. If I’m going to try to write and make art, I’m going to have to be aware of the fact that everyone knows what white dudes’ problems are. I at least have to be talking about it more directly and in a different way.
It’s not like I’m ashamed of being a white man, or being a man. Let me put it this way. I was raised Catholic. And it’s obviously a really oppressive religion to women. But also institutionalized religions are just generally repressive. The kind of guilt I had as a kid about dirty magazines because of the Catholic church—I had so much self-loathing. And I’m right at Broadway: a white, straight, American dude from the Midwest. Nobody’s coming for me. To be aware of that, and to then try to write songs where you are overly sympathizing with your own issues—it’s scary territory, feeling sorry for yourself. It’s definitely thin ice that I’m on.
Kornhaber: It is something you make fun of sometimes. I think of that song “I’m the Man to Be” from the El Vy record [Berninger’s side project].
Berninger: Yeah, that song is a cathartic expression of celebrating your own most ridiculous, self-aggrandizing impulses. I do that a lot. “All the Wine” [from 2005’s Alligator] is the same song. They’re self-deprecating portraits of me puffing myself up because I’m so clearly filled with self-loathing. People always ask me, “Why do you always mention your dick in songs?” I’m like, “Because I’m probably insecure as a lover! Why are you asking? Of course!” I’m not pro-dick.
Kornhaber: In “Turtleneck,” you sing about a rich male savior of the poor who’s wearing a shitty suit. Were you thinking of anyone specific there?
Berninger: Obviously, Trump is Trump. Trump is what it is, and it’s evolving every five minutes. You know at the end of Terminator 2? When the liquid terminator turns into a demon and a man and it’s screaming as it’s dying. I feel like Donald Trump, and the Republican party, is in those last moments of when the Terminator is screeching. That is my brother’s hopeful interpretation.
Hopefully it’s the death throes of an illness of America. The racism, the sexism, but it’s also the self-hatred. Our country has these puritanical values, and we’ve repressed ourselves because it’s a way of controlling. When you make people feel guilty about something, sex or whatever it is, you control their sense of what defines them as being better than other people. Religion infects people with this idea of superiority. And it’s not Jesus’s.
Kornhaber: Going back to the album, which you’ve said is pretty dark, is there a happy ending on this album?
Berninger: I don’t think of a record as having an ending—movies and books have an ending. But I do think about our records as being ultimately really optimistic and positive things just because they make me feel better. It feels good to make a rock song out of this ugly mess. I sleep better having made some art out of the fact that I didn’t know how to deal with my own self-loathing about being a horny white man afraid to cross the street.
Kornhaber: Speaking of sex being at the the core of all our dark desires: Leonard Cohen. You have a reference to him with the song title “Dark Side of the Gym.” What do you take from him?
Berninger: He wrote about sex, he wrote about God, he wrote about politics, all within the same verse. And they all were these beautiful, personal little stories. Everything feels so humongous, but then they also have all these little details.
“Famous Blue Raincoat” is the one I go back to just because it’s like The Great Gatsby or Lolita. That song has so many little details—about a house in the desert, and a lock of hair, and all this kind of stuff—but it’s so big. That song is just a giant, complex story that I don’t quite understand.
He’s one of 20 songwriters that I steal from. Tom Waits, Leonard Cohen, Nick Cave—people like that really go right to the most sensitive parts of the skin. Which are the wires that are frayed and sparking? Those are the ones they’ll put their wet hand on. Because they just have to. It’s the only wire in the room that matters, the one that might burn the place down.


Every 27 years it rises again to stalk the countryside and bring terror to children. I refer, of course, to Pennywise, the diabolical kid-eating clown first made famous in Stephen King’s 1986 horror novel, It. But I also refer to It itself, which was last seen as a two-part miniseries in 1990 and has now returned as a feature film by the Argentine director Andy Muschietti, best known for his 2013 movie Mama.
I recently revisited the old miniseries and found it to be a Spielberg-y throwback to the vibes of 1980s cinema—a bit like last year’s Netflix thriller Stranger Things. The difference, of course, is that Stranger Things, which returns for a second season next month, is consciously (and brilliantly) aping all those old ’80s tropes. The It miniseries, by contrast, couldn’t help but embody them: It did, after all, feature both John Ritter and Harry Anderson in central roles.
How Stephen King Teaches Writing
Unlike the miniseries, Muschietti’s film has opted to tell only half of King’s sprawling novel. That story began in 1957 in the town of Derry, Maine, with the murder of a young boy, Georgie Denbrough. Georgie’s preteen brother Bill, along with a group of fellow misfits who dub themselves the Losers Club, uncovered that Georgie’s death, and others, had taken place at the hands of Pennywise, an ageless and shape-shifting force of evil with a particular fondness for circuswear. The kids defeated the demon and pledged that if it ever returned they would come back to Derry to stop it again. The latter part of the novel took place in 1984, when Pennywise did in fact make his cicada-like reappearance and faced his final destruction at the hands of the now-40ish Losers.
Muschietti’s movie tells only the first “chapter” of the saga—there are plans for a sequel that will tell the second one—and he has moved the action forward to take place in 1988 and 1989. The odd result is that this telling, too, feels eerily like Stranger Things, albeit with considerably more gore splashed around: the same  campy-creepy decade; the same premise about kids trying to solve a paranormal mystery; even the protagonists’ same underlying (and, as a child of the ’80s, I can confirm entirely accurate) philosophy of action: When in doubt, jump on your bike and ride somewhere, anywhere. It doesn’t help at all—indeed, it exacerbates the disorienting but inevitable comparisons—that Finn Wolfhard, who plays one of the Losers in It, is also one of the child-protagonists of Stranger Things. (Muschietti has explained that this is entirely a coincidence; he did not see Stranger Things, which aired while he was in the middle of production, until after completing his film.)
The story, as any fan of the book or miniseries could tell you, begins with the most ill-fated paper boat in all of cinema. A rainstorm is sweeping Derry, and young Bill (Jaeden Lieberher), though too ill to go outside himself, carefully folds a construction-paper boat for little brother Georgie to play with. The latter delights in chasing the boat down the overflowing curb-streams of the neighborhood until it slips down a storm drain. There awaits Pennywise, who proceeds to bite off the boy’s arm before dragging him into the sewer. Poor Georgie. We scarcely knew you.
And so it begins. Pennywise starts haunting Bill and the other Losers (played by Wolfhard, Sophia Lillis, Jeremy Ray Taylor, Chosen Jacobs, Wyatt Oleff, and Jack Dylan Grazer) by appearing as the embodiments of their darkest fears: an eruption of blood from a bathroom sink, a painting come to life, a club-footed leper. These hauntings eventually lead the gang to a creepy old abandoned house that sits atop a well to the sewers—a perfect horror twofer if ever there was one.
The young performers are good across the board (in particular Lieberher, Lillis, and Wolfhard), and manage the tricky feat of carrying a film with no meaningful adult lead. In this, they resemble the cast of the King-story-based Stand By Me, and indeed many of the movie’s best moments revolve around the complicated navigations of adolescence more than the gruesome machinations of Pennywise. (There’s a nice nod to a screening of A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 tucked in there, as well as several to the far-greater horror of New Kids on the Block.)
As Pennywise, Bill Skarsgård—son of the actor Stellan—sports a frilled collar, white skin, and high forehead that recall the Elizabethan ideal of female beauty. The result is a monster coyer and less overtly clown-like than the 1990 Tim Curry version, though one, I suspect, that will ultimately prove less memorable.
Nor are the terrors of Derry limited to the many guises of Pennywise. Though the streets are lovely, darkness lurks behind its doors: an abusive father; a jealously protective mother; a posse of exceptionally murderous bullies. (It’s no coincidence that the best onscreen adaptations of King tend to focus on such human complications and abjure the supernatural altogether: The Shawshank Redemption, Stand By Me, Misery, etc.)
It is here, on the level of metaphor, that Muschietti’s film unexpectedly disappoints. One of the themes of King’s novel, and the original miniseries, was the deep-seated complicity of Derry’s adults in the atrocities committed by Pennywise. They were unable, in the literal sense, to see the visions he inflicted upon the children of the town. But, more broadly, they refused to acknowledge that anything unusual was taking place at all, even as the disappearance of one child was quickly superseded by the disappearance of another.
Muschietti nods lightly toward this idea, but despite his movie’s 135-minute running time, he prefers to devote his footage to the many CGI-enhanced transformations of Pennywise (including the way his jaw distends impossibly to reveal row after row of dagger-teeth, an image that has grown all too common in horror and sci-fi fare). This privileging of the Big Scare over the deeper dread is a particular letdown coming from Muschietti, whose Mama was a far moodier, more evocative entrant in the genre.
What we’re left with is a solid but relatively conventional horror movie, above average but overlong—especially given the decision to limit its scope to half of King’s novel. But the hoped-for sequel is quite clearly advertised at the film’s conclusion, which announces that it constitutes “Chapter One,” and closes with the iconic pledge that Bill demands of his fellow Losers: “Swear: If it isn’t dead, if it ever comes back, we’ll come back too.” I’m afraid I can make no such promise.


Jerry (Nicholas Hoult), the outspoken new student in Whit Burnett’s (Kevin Spacey) creative writing class at Columbia, isn’t your average writer. He speaks out of turn, offers haughty responses to constructive criticism, and refuses to kowtow to even the simplest notes on his work, lest it constrain his creativity. You see, Jerry is a young man blessed with extraordinary talent that will later catapult him to success. How do we know? Because his real name is J.D. Salinger, and the subject of the short story he’s writing is named Holden Caulfield.
The new film about Salinger’s career, Rebel in the Rye, is a work of searing mediocrity about an author who was horrified by the very idea of mediocrity, eventually sealing himself away from public life rather than subject his work to mainstream scrutiny. Written and directed by Danny Strong, the Hollywood scripter behind true-story movies like The Butler, Recount, and Game Change, Rebel in the Rye is immediately and passionately convinced of its hero’s genius before he’s written a line or uttered a word of dialogue. Strong seems to believe Salinger’s name, and his salty attitude, are enough to convince the audience of his talent. Why else would the director not devote a single moment in the film’s 105-minute running time to trying to understand what distinguished the young author from his contemporaries?
Salinger and the Perils of Privacy
Rebel in the Rye offers a cursory glance at every stage of Salinger’s career, including his time at Columbia, his service in World War II, his emergence as a short-story writer for The New Yorker, the 1951 publication of The Catcher in the Rye and its overwhelming success, and his later retreat into total seclusion in New Hampshire. Based on J.D. Salinger: A Life by Kenneth Slawenski, the movie sticks to the formula of Strong’s other scripts, focusing on major moments in the life of a public figure rather than concentrating on any one period in history. In Rebel in the Rye, Strong leaves the work of establishing Salinger’s genius to the ensemble around him, who consistently and loudly praise how exceptional his work is.
Dramatizing the creative process, particularly that of a writer, is never easy to do on film. Strong’s concept, as much as I could understand it, is that Salinger’s youthful attitude ended up mirroring the startling rebelliousness of his most famous character, Holden Caulfield. That’s as close as Strong gets to showing how Salinger drew inspiration from the world around him, though there’s very little mention of any of his other works, particularly his short stories about the Glass family, beyond their titles.
But Salinger is hardly the most dynamic protagonist, and he’s certainly not interesting enough to come across as a generational talent. Strong takes the audience through some early aspects of the writer’s biography, like his romance with Eugene O’Neill’s daughter Oona (Zoey Deutch) and his early rejections from The New Yorker, but Hoult plays Salinger as a typically frustrated young man, trying to make a creative breakthrough and angry at how closed-off New York’s literary establishment seems. The film conveys his struggles in the most shallow ways possible. Writer’s block sees Salinger bitterly tossing his pencil across the room, while his announcement that he’s pursuing a career in writing is greeted with warnings from his father Sol (Victor Garber) that he’ll never amount to anything. When Salinger does make it, the film barely shifts in tone.
Where did Holden Caulfield come from? According to Strong, he was the personification of Salinger’s fight against literary heterodoxy, with the book’s grim outlook forged in the fires of World War II. The film lacks the budget to stage much of Salinger’s service in Europe, instead subjecting us to rote flashbacks of battlefield chaos and a scene where he rails at Burnett about the friends he lost overseas. The genesis of The Catcher in the Rye appears to be little more than Burnett encouraging Salinger to turn his Caulfield short story into a novel; once that decision is made, the rest is a dramatically inert inevitability.
Of course, Salinger encounters resistance from the stuffy publishing world—editor’s notes, suggestions of plot changes, horror at the novel’s frank language and then-unusual portrait of teenage disaffection. But the author stands his ground, telling his agent (Sarah Paulson, one of the movie’s many wasted talents), “I won’t do it, I won’t change a word! Holden would not approve!” Holden would certainly not approve of this film, one that crams an author’s mysterious and fascinating legacy into the most basic of biopic formulas. I can’t imagine many viewers will, either.


When the comedian Tiffany Haddish was 9, her stepfather tampered with the brakes on her mother’s car, hoping to kill his partner and her four children. Rather than going out with her mom that day, Haddish asked to stay home and look after her younger siblings—sparing her from the horrific accident that left her mother mentally impaired. As the oldest child, Haddish did what she could to help for three years, from tying her mother’s shoes to paying bills, but eventually Haddish and her siblings were placed in foster care.
Haddish used the trauma and tragedy of her upbringing to ignite what is now a blazing comedy career. As a child, the Girls Trip star was teased for being a foster kid, but Haddish has also talked about maintaining a strong sense of self worth in her recent Showtime standup special, She Ready!: From the Hood to Hollywood. “The state of California paid so much money to make sure I don’t die ‘cause they knew I was gonna be special,” Haddish tells her audience. “They knew it. They was like, ‘This one right here, she gonna be a unicorn.’ And they was right. I’m the last black unicorn, bitch!”
Haddish’s ascent in recent years—debuting on NBC’s The Carmichael Show in 2015 and appearing in the 2016 action comedy Keanu and the summer hit Girls Trip—is a testament to her talent and resilience. But her story also offers insight into what it takes for a black woman in comedy to become successful today. Haddish’s rise points to where systemic roadblocks still lie for performers of color, particularly women, when they first enter the business—and how some barriers to entry may be falling as comedy enters a new golden age, with fewer gatekeepers and more platforms for artists to reach their fans.
Haddish defies the odds not only in her climb from poverty to nascent stardom, but also in her standing as a newly minted “black unicorn” in a genre dominated by white men. A few years ago, in an attempt to explain Saturday Night Live’s failure to cast more black women over the last four decades, the cast member Kenan Thompson lamented, “In auditions, they just never find ones that are ready.” As writers at The Atlantic and other outlets noted at the time, the absence of black women at SNL wasn’t so much about performers’ readiness, but about the show’s readiness. Though SNL has worked to fix this longstanding disparity in recent years, notably by hiring Leslie Jones and Sasheer Zamata (who left after last season), its cast makeup is symptomatic of problems deeply rooted in comedy and the entertainment industry at large.
A recent University of Southern California study of 21,000 characters and production staff on more than 400 films and TV shows found that all women, including women of color, are dramatically underrepresented in writers’ rooms and director’s chairs. Only one-third of speaking characters in the report were women or girls, and just 28.3 percent were people of color. The industry hires shockingly few black directors, which has clear consequences on-screen: In movies made by black directors, roughly 53 percent of speaking characters are also black. For all other films, that number drops to 10 percent.
Movie studios commonly defend patterns of racial inequality by insisting that famous headliners are the key to success and that movies with white leads fare much better overseas than movies featuring actors of color. Defenders of this line of thinking can point to statistics: In the top 100 movies of 2014, 73 percent of speaking or named characters were white. But these outcomes are more the result of a self-fulfilling prophecy. Audiences have repeatedly shown they will support films with lesser-known leads and performers of color. One of the year’s biggest hits so far, the low-budget horror film Get Out, was made by a black director, Jordan Peele, and starred a relatively unknown black actor, Daniel Kaluuya.
Even though Girls Trip has a black director and writers, Haddish faced questions about her low profile. Her agent initially told her that studio executives were looking for someone with a bigger name to play her character, Dina. Haddish told her agent to tell them, “I’ve had a name since 1979. Okay? I was born with a name.” In the end, her rare comedic gifts won out, and reviews of Girls Trip regularly singled Haddish out for praise. “Haddish just about runs away with the movie. Her portrayal of the fast-talking, histrionic loose cannon steals nearly every scene,” wrote The Washington Post’s Stephanie Merry. Vulture’s Emily Yoshida called Haddish “the clear and undeniable breakout star of the film,” adding, “You cannot take your eyes off Haddish when she’s onscreen.”
As Girls Trip showcased (but as her earlier fans already knew), Haddish is a brash, uninhibited, and highly skilled physical performer. She uses facial tics and expressions to create pauses in her stories and set up punch lines. She describes and demonstrates sexual maneuvers and poses in exaggerated and shameless fashion; her demonstration of “grapefruiting” a penis in Girls Trip is slapstick gold. And Haddish plays an impressive range of characters, including her grandmother and a version of herself in the midst of what she calls a “psychotic break” in She Ready!, and Hi-C, her gangster role in Keanu.
Haddish’s speech patterns during performances place her within the rich tradition of black vernacular comedy, but she appeals to a wide cross section of fans. As I discovered while researching my new book Behind the Laughs: Community and Inequality in Comedy, being funny isn’t enough to make it in comedy, especially for people of color. The Insecure cast member Amanda Seales told The Los Angeles Times that black women in particular often feel pressure to “figure out how to get into the mainstream, be the ‘it girl,’ and get the whites to like you.” As Seales suggests, comedians of color often have to train themselves to “cross over” in order to appeal to white audiences, in a way that white comics don’t have to. While Haddish’s relatively light skin and slim body type help distance her from racist stereotypes of sexually aggressive black womanhood, she also refuses to tone down her act. She complements her physical abilities with a sharp focus on black women’s pleasure, both on stage and in Girls Trip.
Haddish, of course, follows other unapologetically black women in comedy, like Mo’Nique, Sommore, and Sheryl Underwood, whose styles and sensibilities clearly influenced Haddish’s act. No matter how many myths and glass ceilings Haddish and her contemporaries shatter, the lineage of black women in comedy will continue to be shaped by the top-down and bottom-up forces of inequality in the industry. With every dollar Girls Trip earns, Hollywood has even fewer excuses for overlooking black women as screenwriters, directors, and on-screen talent. It’s a problem with a seemingly clear solution for those atop the entertainment industry: Stop ignoring black women and invest in their work. Unfortunately, the many problems that originate at comedy clubs and theaters at the lower levels of the business don’t have as obvious a fix.
* * *
One issue that shapes Hollywood’s talent pipeline is the shortage of black-owned and -operated comedy clubs. For example, Chicago, one of comedy’s capital cities and home to one of the largest African American populations in the United States, had just one such venue in 2016: Jokes and Notes. Now, it has none, as the long-time comedy entrepreneur Mary Ella Lindsey closed the establishment. She explained to The Chicago Sun-Times,
With a comedy club, you need foot traffic. If you look at the North Side, there are three or four comedy clubs, but you have restaurants, and bars, and foot traffic ... I’ve been at such a disadvantage over the last five years because there are no restaurants, and the biggest thing I’ve always heard about why people aren’t coming is ‘crime.’ … I’ve never had an incident.
Lindsey opened Jokes and Notes roughly 10 years ago in Bronzeville, a South Side neighborhood that appeared to be gentrifying. But the area has not significantly improved in the eyes of entrepreneurs who might have opened restaurants and shops near Lindsey’s club, and Lindsey couldn’t stay in business.
So why don’t aspiring black performers go elsewhere? Why don’t they just head to the North Side of Chicago, which boasts several standup clubs along with two of the most influential comedy theaters and training centers in the country, The Second City and iO Theater? Well, they do. In fact, black performers, like Peele and Keegan-Michael Key, have been performing at these venues for some time. The Second City boasts new fellowship and outreach programming, like the NBC Universal-sponsored Bob Curry Fellowship, designed to attract performers from underrepresented groups.
Haddish herself got her start at a Laugh Factory comedy-camp program tailored to young performers from underprivileged backgrounds. She was mentored by stars like Richard Pryor and Dane Cook, and she has said the camp boosted her confidence and set her on the path to stardom. As Haddish explained in an interview with People, “Going to that comedy camp and having all those men tell me, ‘You’re beautiful. You’re smart. You’re talented.’ Like, for somebody to tell me that, even if they didn’t believe it or mean it, it was enough. It was enough to light a fire.”
But even when one barrier to entry is removed, performers of color and economically disadvantaged comics still face serious obstacles to professional development. Whether in standup or sketch, comedians who have money to fall back on have a much better chance of lasting in the business than those who come from backgrounds like Haddish’s. The comedy camp didn’t rescue Haddish from poverty; she lived in her car during the early years of her career.
Even beyond the cost factor, the experiences of people of color, women, and women of color at these theaters differ dramatically from those of their white, male counterparts. They learn in predominantly white classes with predominantly white instructors and perform for predominantly white audiences. Scenes in sketch and improv comedy can also sometimes veer toward racial stereotyping that puts comedians of color in a difficult bind.
The Second City veteran, improv instructor, and cultural critic Ali Barthwell recounted an example of this treatment for my book. She was at an improv audition where she played an adventurer exploring a deep hole in the ground. One of the other improv players saw the hole and said to Barthwell, “I don’t want to go down there. It’s scary and black. No offense.” Passive-aggressive racism like this is doubly poisonous for comedians from underrepresented groups because they’re expected to shrug off their discomfort, sometimes in order to prove their true commitment to comedy. If black women react with justified frustration, they become more vulnerable to the “angry black woman” stereotype. In general, comedians of color aren’t expected to push back when they feel certain jokes cross the line. The former director of digital content at The Onion and best-selling author Baratunde Thurston told me:
People just think you’re superhuman and they can just say anything to you and you have to take it as a joke. And if you’re doing comedy and race, people want to like test you, and be like, “Wussup my niggaaaah!” I’m a human being still. I have feelings, I have standards, and I have a sense of self respect.
Conventional thinking holds that comedians from marginalized groups will have more opportunities if gatekeepers and audiences simply take a colorblind approach to producing and consuming comedy. Comedians themselves often buy into this notion and strive for universalism and “funny is funny” meritocracy; Jerry Seinfeld has made such arguments repeatedly over the past few years. But as Barthwell and Thurston describe, comedy isn’t colorblind, and insisting on neutrality often means demanding that black comics adapt to white norms—and preserve the status quo. Neutrality keeps inequality in place, often yielding stale and unimaginative comedy that alienates and excludes performers of color. But the fact that the critically acclaimed Girls Trip is the most successful live-action comedy of the year, with $126 million and counting at the box office, demonstrates that good art, good business, and diversity are indeed compatible.
Haddish’s career took a rather traditional route, from doing standup at major clubs, to landing a sitcom role on a major network, to starring in a movie from a major studio. Ultimately, however, Haddish’s future and the future of black women in comedy may lie elsewhere. Digital production and distribution, as well as social media, have wrested some power from television and film studios and placed it in the hands of artists. Issa Rae started Awkward Black Girl as a YouTube web series before getting a deal with HBO to make her show Insecure. Phoebe Robinson and Jessica Williams are following in Rae’s footsteps, and the co-hosts of the WNYC 2 Dope Queens podcast will take their act to HBO as well. As Robinson explained, becoming a content producer, rather than just a performer, means, “You can be more in charge of your destiny, rather than, ‘I hope someone will cast me as something.’” This approach allows artists to cultivate a following and demonstrate their worth without first needing a major investment from a film company.
Though these new channels exist, movie and television studios still wield tremendous power. So when financial investment from studios does come—as it has for Haddish, who just inked a deal to star alongside Kevin Hart in the 2018 film Night School—stars can maximize their influence by forming their own production companies. Hart, whose comedy is a far cry from the social commentary of Pryor, has already taken steps to ensure black creators have more access to the writers’ room and director’s chair (the Girls Trip director Malcolm D. Lee will helm Night School). Historically, the success of men like Hart, Pryor, Bill Cosby, Eddie Murphy, Dave Chappelle, and Chris Rock has not opened as many doors for black women in comedy. But for all the challenges that remain, Haddish and her peers now have new outlets and platforms for ensuring their work reaches fans—and that there will be many more black unicorns to come.


Football devotees call it “the ultimate team sport,” and in a sense they are right. No play is made alone. The linebacker who bursts through to level the running back can thank his linemen for occupying blockers; the receiver who gets behind the defense for a 40-yard touchdown can thank the distracting routes of his cohorts who end up empty-handed. Still, nobody approaches the importance of the quarterback, especially in today’s NFL. Recent rule changes designed to protect players have had the side effect of liberating offenses, making passers unquestionably the most valuable commodities in the sport. A great one can elevate a bad team to relevance, or a good team to Super Bowl contention. A lousy one can sink even the most well-stocked squad’s chances.
The 2017 NFL season, which kicks off Thursday night, will have its share of plays that remind you of football’s variable thrills, but most games—and the eventual championship—will likely come down to the men under center. Here, then, are four quarterbacks worth paying special attention to, as they set the terms of the sport’s present and future.
Deshaun Watson, the Rookie
In last year’s college football championship, the Clemson quarterback Deshaun Watson progressed from star to legend. He broke the record for passing yards in a title game, with 420, and with one second left threw the game-winning touchdown, leading his Tigers past the then-undefeated Alabama Crimson Tide. “I couldn’t hear the crowd,” he said then of his heroics. “I just felt at peace.”
Watson was drafted by the Houston Texans with the 12th pick in April’s draft, and though he’ll be relegated to backup duties in Week 1, the hope in Houston is that he’ll take the starting job soon and, eventually, become the player to push a promising team over the hump. Outfitted with a stellar defense and talented receiving corps, the Texans made the playoffs in each of the past two seasons, but each appearance ended in a blowout loss due, in large part, to subpar quarterback play. Watson—strong-armed, nimble-footed, and with a well-earned reputation for leadership and poise under pressure—presents a possible solution.
He could help solve a leaguewide problem, as well. The NFL needs an infusion of youth at its premium position; last season, four of the five leaders in passing yards were older than 30. A generation of star quarterbacks, including Peyton Manning and Tony Romo, has started phasing into retirement. With a skillful roster around him and a strong pedigree behind him, Watson is as good a bet as any rookie to inherit the role; Drew Brees, one of those soon-to-exit elders, recently called him “as talented as they come.”
Cam Newton, the Comeback Hopeful
For pure joy, no season in recent memory tops Cam Newton’s 2015 campaign. That year, he threw for 35 touchdowns and ran for 10 more, won the Most Valuable Player award, and led the Carolina Panthers to a 15-1 record and the Super Bowl. He played like an action hero, firing passes into impossibly tight windows and battering through defenders. Along the way, he enlivened the normally buttoned-up culture of the NFL, offering wide smiles where other players might have opted for blankfaced stares, celebrating his touchdowns by racing to the seats and handing the football to a kid in a Panthers jersey. Newton’s excitement bothered some of the more dour segments of sports media, but that didn’t much matter as his team rolled over all comers.
Carolina lost that year’s Super Bowl, though, while Newton followed a subpar performance with a surly press conference, and the year since has been as difficult as the previous one was easygoing. The 2016 Panthers went 6-10, and their quarterback saw his productivity slip in every statistical category. Defenders made a habit of delivering punishing hits to Newton, which were curiously not flagged as excessive, and tired arguments often trotted out regarding black quarterbacks resurfaced. “Running is an easy, lazier way to play quarterback,” the Fox Sports host Colin Cowherd said recently, forgetting—or, more likely, ignoring—Newton’s ability to disassemble defenses with his arm or his legs.
The 2017 Panthers have an offense energized by the addition of the rookie running back Christian McCaffrey, and they hope to prove that last season was an aberration, not the start of a downward trend. A bounceback year for Newton, meanwhile, would be welcome beyond the Carolinas. At his best, he is living, laughing, rumbling proof that the game’s most demanding job need not be its least fun one.
Aaron Rodgers, the Virtuoso
Aaron Rodgers makes throws that seem not only unprecedented but, until replays show them again and again, physically impossible. Take, for example, the pass that helped his Green Bay Packers beat the Dallas Cowboys in the divisional round of last year’s playoffs. With 12 seconds left in a tie game, facing third and 20, Rodgers took the snap, spun away from the Dallas rush, and—on the run—threw a 35-yard dart diagonally into the arms of Jared Cook, who corralled it on the last sliver of grass before the sideline. The completion set up the winning field goal, and after the game, Rodgers was as giddy as any spectator. “I love that part,” he said. “I love the challenge—I love the opportunity to go out there and make plays.”
The problem, for Green Bay, is to use Rodgers’s rare ability to make football magic without becoming reliant on it. Detractors might argue that the Packers have overburdened their quarterback in the years since they last reached the Super Bowl, in their 2010 championship season. Rodgers has kept to his remarkable standards since then, but he has needed to, rescuing teams with weak defenses and slapdash running attacks. He has thrown an unheard-of three Hail Mary touchdowns over the past two seasons, a testament both to his ability and to his team’s sometimes dire straits.
There’s little question that the 33-year-old Rodgers will be remembered as one of the best of his era when he leaves the game. He is an offense unto himself, an exploder of norms and inventor of angles. What remains to be seen is whether he will spend the rest of his career keeping flawed teams afloat or leading great ones to championships. In some ways, despite his deserved accolades, Rodgers represents the downside of modern quarterbacking’s outsized importance; some passers can be so good that the deficiencies around them go overlooked until it’s too late.
Tom Brady, the Champion
In February’s Super Bowl, Tom Brady turned in the defining performance of what may be the greatest quarterback career of all time, leading the New England Patriots back from a 28-3 deficit to an overtime win. The comeback had all of its perpetrator’s trademarks: perfect accuracy, uncanny timing, unflappable cool, and a dash of what might look like luck, had it happened to anyone else. It was the fifth championship for Brady and the head coach Bill Belichick, the defining duo of 21st-century football.
Maybe the only thing more unlikely than the win itself is the fact that it wasn’t a swan song. At age 40—ancient in the lifespan of a pro football player—Brady seems better than ever; a recent ESPN.com ranking of the NFL’s best 100 players put him at the top of the list. He owes his relative agelessness to an approach that privileges the mental over the physical. Brady hardly moves behind his offensive line, bouncing on his toes and surveying the defense, and he doesn’t really throw deep, by contemporary standards. Rather, he goes about his work like the world’s most well-paid locksmith, glancing in one direction and sending the football in another, manipulating the opposition’s strategic cogs.
There is nothing new to say about Brady: no sudden deficiencies to report, no hurdles to overcome. He’s at the apex of his profession, and he figures to remain there for some time. For its NFL preview issue, Sports Illustrated ran a cover with star players from other teams, miniaturized, scampering over a gigantic Brady, trying to find purchase. The metaphor landed. He is not only his team’s central figure but the sport’s, the best at the most crucial task. In 2017—and, likely, beyond—the rest of the league can only try to catch up.


What does September mean in this moment of Hasn’t-Even-Peaked-Yet-Peak-TV? Basically, a lot of television. Although the summer wasn’t exactly a respite, given the abundance of new Netflix series and the rejiggered schedule for a somewhat popular show about dragons, the back-to-school season is bringing an embarrassment of new series, rebooted classics, and spinoffs. Below is a brief, non-comprehensive guide to the most intriguing new shows, with a bonus section on returning series that are worth the time.
New shows, reboots, and revivals:
American Horror Story: Cult (September 5, FX)
The seventh season of Ryan Murphy’s anthology series tackles the most terrifying monster of recent times: the news. Set in the immediate aftermath of the 2016 U.S. presidential election, the 11-episode season uses the chaos of Donald Trump’s political ascendancy to examine cult figures, social polarization, and the looming anxiety amped up by social media. Scary clowns abound, both in costume and in power.
The Deuce (September 10, HBO)
The first collaboration between David Simon and George Pelecanos since Treme, The Deuce is set in 1970s New York City, when Times Square had more peep shows and porn theaters than Olive Gardens and Elmo impersonators. In the eight-episode series, James Franco plays twin brothers Vincent and Frankie Martino, a bartender and a gambler who get swept up in a mob plan to profit from the burgeoning sex industry. Maggie Gyllenhaal is Candy, a sex worker with bigger ambitions. Fans of The Wire will appreciate familiar faces: Method Man, Gbenga Akinnagbe, Chris Bauer, Anwan Glover, Lawrence Gilliard, Jr.
Riviera (September 14, Sundance Now)
The Oscar-winning writer and director Neil Jordan (The Crying Game) helms this 10-part import from Britain’s Sky Atlantic, set on the Cote d’Azur. Julia Stiles stars as a curator whose billionaire husband, Constantine (Anthony LaPaglia), is killed in an accident aboard his yacht, spurring her to investigate his death. Iwan Rheon (better known as Ramsay Bolton) plays Constantine’s eldest son, who rejects the family fortune and the trouble it seems to entail.
The Vietnam War (September 17, PBS)
Ken Burns and Lynn Novick’s newest project is their most ambitious yet: a 10-part, 18-hour history of the Vietnam War that dwarfs even Burns’s 680-minute reckoning with the Civil War, the 1990 series that cemented his reputation as America’s greatest historical documentarian. Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross of Nine Inch Nails curate the soundtrack and provide an original score.
The State (September 18, National Geographic)
This four-part miniseries from the British writer and director Peter Kosminsky (Wolf Hall) aired in the U.K. last month on Channel 4, where it was largely praised for its dramatization of the lives of Britons who leave their homes to join ISIS. Kosminsky and his researchers spent months sifting through public records and conducting interviews to more accurately portray life inside the terrorist organization, and the result is a shocking cautionary tale.
Star Trek: Discovery (September 24, CBS)
Twelve years after the last Star Trek series went off the air, this long-awaited prequel to the original 1960s Star Trek is expensive (reportedly costing around $8 million per episode), nine months late (it was supposed to debut in January), and exclusive to viewers willing to pay $5.99 a month for CBS’s streaming platform. Sonequa Martin-Green (The Walking Dead) is First Officer Michael Burnham, with Michelle Yeoh (Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon) as Philippa Georgiou, the captain of the Starship Shenzhou.
The Opposition With Jordan Klepper (September 25, Comedy Central)
The former Daily Show correspondent gets his own perch in Comedy Central’s 11:30 p.m. slot, previously occupied by Stephen Colbert and Larry Wilmore. The Opposition might sound like a new TV HQ for #theresistance, but it’s billed as satirizing “alternative-media” voices, with Klepper’s character channeling Alex Jones, Louise Mensch, and shouty fabulists on both the left and the right.
The Good Doctor (September 25, ABC)
Freddie Highmore (Bates Motel) stars in this new Monday-night medical drama about a brilliant pediatric surgeon who has autism and who relocates to a respected hospital in San Jose, where his new colleagues wrestle with the opportunities and challenges provided by his abilities. The series is co-created by David Shore, the showrunner behind House, and is based on a hit Korean drama of the same name.
Young Sheldon (September 25, CBS)
How did Sheldon Cooper come to be? It’s possibly not a question too many Big Bang Theory fans have asked, but the Chuck Lorre comedy’s astronomical ratings make the greenlighting of this prequel an obvious yes. Iain Armitage (Big Little Lies) plays the title character, a 9-year-old growing up in East Texas in 1989 who enters high school as an extremely precocious youngster. In a first for Lorre, the show departs from the multi-cam, laugh-track format to go for more of a nostalgic, Wonder Years vibe.
Law & Order True Crime: The Menendez Murders (September 26, NBC)
The true-crime boom of late has inspired none other than Dick Wolf, whose newest NBC spinoff dramatizes the 1996 trial in which two young men from Beverly Hills were convicted of murdering their wealthy parents. Edie Falco plays Leslie Abramson, the brothers’ defense attorney, with Josh Charles as their psychiatrist and Anthony Edwards as the presiding judge.
Will & Grace (September 28, NBC)
“Will and Grace are still living together, Jack’s across the hall, Karen’s still rich,” is how Eric McCormack summarized this 16-episode revival of the hit NBC comedy, which garnered 16 Emmy Awards during its previous eight seasons on the air. In other words, more of the same, only with updated topical references (Grindr, Brangelina’s divorce, Fox News) and some creative working around that definitive series finale.
Big Mouth (September 29, Netflix)
Nick Kroll and John Mulaney (Oh, Hello) voice two teenagers hitting puberty in this surreal new Netflix animated show, which sees its characters battle hormone monsters and newfound sexual urges. The show is created by Kroll and Andrew Goldberg, both friends since childhood, and features the voices of Maya Rudolph, Jenny Slate, Jessi Klein, Jordan Peele, and Jason Mantzoukas, among others.
Ghosted (October 1, Fox)
A former LAPD officer (Craig Robinson) and a gentle bookstore employee who claims his wife was abducted by aliens (Adam Scott) are paired up to investigate the paranormal in this odd-couple comedy—kind of The X-Files meets Police Squad! Adeel Akhtar (Four Lions, The Night Manager) plays their no-nonsense wrangler.
Curb Your Enthusiasm (October 1, HBO)
“In the immortal words of Julius Caesar, ‘I left, I did nothing, I returned,’” is how Larry David described the 10-episode revival of his HBO comedy, which arrives six years after the eighth season moved a newly single Larry to New York. Bryan Cranston, Elizabeth Banks, Nasim Pedrad, Lauren Graham, and Judge Judy are among the guest stars scheduled to make an appearance.
Ten Days in the Valley (October 1, ABC)
Kyra Sedgwick stars in this new ABC drama created by Tassie Cameron, about a workaholic TV producer, Jane Sadler, whose daughter disappears. The show, originally intended as a vehicle for Demi Moore, covers one day in each of its 10 episodes, as investigators probe Jane’s personal life to try and uncover who’s targeting her family.
The Gifted (October 2, Fox)
Set within the X-Men universe, this 10-episode drama from Matt Nix (Burn Notice) focuses on two separated parents (True Blood’s Stephen Moyer and Person of Interest’s Amy Acker) who discover that their teenage children are mutants. While the series won’t cross over with Legion, the FX drama drawn from the same X-Men film series, or with any of the movies, its first two episodes are directed by Bryan Singer and Len Wiseman.
The Mayor (October 3, ABC)
Created by the writer Jeremy Bronson, and executive-produced by Daveed Diggs, this new ABC sitcom—inspired, in part, by Chance the Rapper—focuses on a young musician who runs for mayor of his hometown in a bid to get more attention for his mixtape, but who accidentally wins. Brandon Micheal Hall (Search Party) is Courtney Rose, the unlikely new addition in City Hall.
Dynasty (October 11, The CW)
The original Dynasty’s “slavering fetishization of wealth, power, and conspicuous consumption,” was, Mark Harris posited at Vulture, the defining cultural emblem of Reagan’s America. Which makes this reboot, by The O.C. and Gossip Girl’s Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage, timely, to say the least. Grant Show plays the billionaire Blake Carrington, whose new wife, Cristal (Nathalie Kelley), prompts a face-off with his daughter, Fallon (Elizabeth Gillies).
I Love You, America (October 12, Hulu)
Sarah Silverman’s new weekly topical show for Hulu is being billed as an honest attempt for the outspoken comedian to engage with “real” Americans whose opinions and beliefs are at odds with her own. The series’s co-executive producers include Will Ferrell and Adam McKay (Anchorman, The Big Short).
Mindhunter (October 13, Netflix)
David Fincher’s first television project since House of Cards—following a multi-series deal with HBO that was scuttled after budget disputes—is roughly based on a 1995 book about the FBI’s elite serial-crime unit. Set in 1979, it stars Jonathan Groff and Holt McCallany as two agents who investigate serial killers by interviewing the ones who’ve been caught. If it sounds like The Silence of the Lambs, that’s because it’s working with identical source material.
White Famous (October 15, Showtime)
The Saturday Night Live alum Jay Pharoah stars in this Jamie Foxx-produced comedy, based loosely on the Oscar-winning actor’s breakout days as an entertainer and the mixed blessing of becoming “white famous.” The 10-episode series’s showrunner is Tom Kapinos, of Californication and Lucifer.
The Last O.G. (October 24, TBS)
Tracy Morgan. Jordan Peele. Tiffany Haddish. Those are three extremely good reasons to check out TBS’s new comedy, created by Peele, and starring Morgan as  Tray, an ex-con released from a 15-year prison sentence who returns to a remarkably different world. Haddish plays his ex-girlfriend, who’s been raising Tray’s twin sons with her white boyfriend (Ryan Gaul).
Alias Grace (November 3, Netflix)
Sarah Polley (Away From Her, Stories We Tell) adapted the second TV series this year to come from a Margaret Atwood novel, after Hulu’s acclaimed production of The Handmaid’s Tale. Sarah Gadon plays Grace Marks, a servant convicted of murder in 1843, whose culpability is called into question by a doctor investigating the crime.
SMILF (November 5, Showtime)
Frankie Shaw (Mr. Robot) adapts her award-winning short film of the same name—loosely based on her own experiences as a single mother struggling to build a career—into a comedy series for Showtime. Set in South Boston, the 10-episode show features Rosie O’Donnell as the mother of Shaw’s character, with Connie Britton as her boss.
The Girlfriend Experience (November 5, Starz)
The first season of Starz’s The Girlfriend Experience, loosely based on the Steven Soderbergh movie of the same name, featured Riley Keough as an enigmatic law student and sex worker. The second, again executive-produced by Soderbergh and written by Lodge Kerrigan and Amy Seimetz, reboots the premise with two new stories set in D.C. and New Mexico, starring Anna Friel, Carmen Ejogo, and Louisa Krause.
Future Man (November 14, Hulu)
Josh Hutcherson (The Hunger Games, The Kids Are All Right) stars in this Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg-produced comedy about a slacker janitor who’s unexpectedly tasked with time travel to save humanity from extinction. Ed Begley Jr. and Haley Joel Osment co-star, along with Glenne Headly, whose storylines were rewritten after the actress died in June.
Runaways (November 21, Hulu)
The third Marvel TV series to debut this fall (ABC’s lackluster Inhumans and Fox’s The Gifted are the others) is, like Dynasty, created by Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage. Based on the comic series of the same name, the 10-episode Hulu show is about a group of teens who unite to fight their parents when they discover the adults are part of a nefarious criminal organization called the Pride.
Godless (November 22, Netflix)
Continuing to spend money like it’s not even a thing, Netflix debuts this six-episode Western co-created by Steven Soderbergh and Scott Frank (Get Shorty). Jeff Daniels plays Frank Griffin, a gunslinger and the leader of a group of outlaws bent on revenge against a traitor. Also in the cast: Michelle Dockery, Sam Waterston, Thomas Brodie-Sangster, Jack O’Connell, and Merritt Wever.
She’s Gotta Have It (November 23, Netflix)
Spike Lee adapts his 1986 classic of the same name into this 10-episode dramedy, starring DeWanda Wise as Nola Darling, a charismatic Brooklynite torn between three different men. The producers include Lynn Nottage, who’s twice won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama.
Returning shows:
Amid such a wealth of new shows to choose from, there are a number of returning series worth catching up on, particularly the ones that don’t require a heavy time commitment. BoJack Horseman returns to Netflix for a fourth season on September 8, and the weird satirical comedy about a disgruntled animal movie star (voiced by Will Arnett) is both ingenious and tragic. Top of the Lake: China Girl (September 10, Sundance) is the long-awaited second season to the 2013 Jane Campion miniseries starring Elisabeth Moss as a detective in New Zealand investigating the case of a missing pregnant 12-year-old. Broad City, which returns to Comedy Central for a fourth season on September 13, promises to address the election this season, albeit with President Trump’s name bleeped out.
There were a handful of truly excellent comedies that crept under the radar last year, and Pamela Adlon’s FX series Better Things, starring the actress and director as a single mom in Hollywood, was one of them. But there’s time to stream all 10 half-hour episodes before Season 2 returns on September 14. More widely praised (and rightfully so) was NBC’s The Good Place, which returns September 20, and whose epic final-episode twist shall not be spoiled. Great News (September 28, NBC), which improved hugely a few episodes into its first season, gets 13 more episodes, with executive producer Tina Fey starring in seven of them as a new, Sheryl Sandberg-like boss at the TV station.
Another hit for NBC was This Is Us, which returns September 26, and which my colleague Megan Garber memorably christened “must-weep TV.” USA’s engaging but tentacular hacker drama, Mr. Robot, is back for a third season on October 11. But possibly the biggest show this fall is the second season of Stranger Things, the out-of-the-blue Netflix phenomenon, which re-immerses viewers in the Upside Down on October 27.


This story contains spoilers through Episode 1 of American Horror Story: Cult.
Your fears are all founded, horror stories always say. The monster really is under the bed. That closet does contain a killer. The glint in your child’s eye is a demon.
Or, as in the case of American Horror Story: Cult—take whatever nightmares, whatever worst-case scenarios, that the election of Donald Trump planted in your mind. They’re all coming true.
American Horror Story's Mind-Bending Experiment
The seventh season of Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk’s FX anthology series may mark the first mass-market filmed fiction to tackle the Trump era head-on. Tuesday night’s premiere episode opened on the evening of November 8, 2016, spiraling into a riff on the way fear, perception, and plain cruelty shape public life in this moment. As is often the case with Horror Story, the show has hit on an intriguing high concept, and its first few episodes are compulsively watchable. As is also often the case, incoherence and overreach threaten to topple a premise already teetering on the edge of exploitation.
Sarah Paulson heartily plays the brittle Ally Mayfair-Richards, a mascot for liberal panic. The first horror scene of the show takes place at the diversely attended election-night viewing party held in her and her wife’s tasteful, Crate and Barrel-ized home. As it dawns on Ally that neither The Huffington Post nor Rachel Maddow nor Nate Silver can reverse what’s happened, the music rumbles ominously and Paulson shrieks as if her fingernails are being removed with pliers. Her wife, Ivy (Alison Pill), tries to console her with breathing exercises. Their young son, Oz (Cooper Dodson), clutches his stuffed animal in the other room and listens to her screams. Early on, the show seems to ask, What is the adult world’s present hysteria doing to the kids?
On the other side of the national divide is Kai (Evan Peters), a basement-dwelling, internet-dwelling rageball who humps the screen when Fox News announces Trump’s win. No, these characterizations aren’t subtle, and the show could afford to cut its share of on-the-nose punchlines by half. But this is American Horror Story, and pushing clichés past the breaking point is part of the point. You’d be right to roll your eyes at the sight of this stringy-haired misanthrope munching on cheese puffs. Yet, tired becomes inspired when Kai puts those puffs in a blender and smears the resulting orange slurry on his face so as to mock his liberal sister Winter (Billie Lourd) with hideous Trump drag.
Winter, it turns out, is a Vassar student who took a year off to try and help elect the country’s first woman president. At first it seems like the show is overloading itself with caricatures—like when she asks a friend why CNN didn’t include a trigger warning with its election results. But swiftly it becomes clear that Winter isn’t that into safe spaces: She’s actually conspiring with her ideologically opposed brother. Kai is a self-styled revolutionary with a touch of the Joker, fomenting fear to cause change. Winter’s interest in that plan? Not immediately clear. But when she shows up to babysit Oz, she gets to quick work corrupting the kid by exposing him to the darkest parts of the internet.
Much of the first episode follows Paulson’s Ally in a post-election psychological spiral. Debilitating phobias of clowns, blood, and little clusters of holes have flared back up thanks to Trump, she tells her therapist, Dr. Rudy Vincent (Cheyenne Jackson). In one of those supremely questionable creative choices that only Ryan Murphy would make, an early sequence essentially recreates a frightening scene from 2014’s American Horror Story: Freak Show, even going so far as to re-feature John Carroll Lynch’s melty-faced Twisty the Clown. It eventually becomes clear that the sequence is just a visualization of what Oz’s reading in a comic book—but his young imagination makes the horrors leap off the page. So too does Ally’s anxiety. One glimpse at the comic-book cover and she’s in full-blown freakout.
Ally’s sightings of gruesome clowns around town—a reference to the rash of creepy carnivalesque encounters around North America last year—provides one of the big political metaphors of the show. The horror itself isn’t novel: Everyone has squirmed through psychological thrillers in which the main character might be delusional, and few slasher narratives are more familiar than that of a threatened heroine not being taken seriously by those around her. But by the premiere’s end, it seems obvious that at least some of these clowns are real, and that the real intrigue is in the allegory. Is Ally’s tendency toward mistrust protecting her from a greater threat? Or is it just making her a target?
As for one of the greatest liberal fears about Trump’s election, Cult indulges in it fully: Yes, the results of November 8 did empower terrible people to do terrible things, the show says. Kai commits a hate crime against a group of day laborers and then has his subsequent beatdown by the laborers filmed, presumably to gin up anti-immigrant sentiment when the tape is released. He also menaces the town mayor, and glimmers of Peters’s American Horror Story Season 1 character, a disaffected school shooter, shine through as he glowers, “There is nothing more dangerous than a humiliated man.” The horror story here is that Americans really are being gaslit, and that some of the people who cheer Trump are fueled only by resentment and do want to see the world burn.
But there is also, oddly, a comfort to the show as its pulls the viewer into its funhouse version of reality. It’s so outrageous, so parodic, that the nightmare it presents feels just like that, a nightmare—unreal, something from which the viewer will awake. Perhaps it discounts the seriousness of real-world hate crimes to have them rendered cartoonishly here. Perhaps it’s unfortunate that the first major pop-culture processing of the political era is entirely rooted in white, liberal anxiety. But perhaps, it’ll turn out, the show’s Cheeto-caked villains will make a useful point of comparison for our world’s recent sources of fear—the bogeymen, as well as the real threats.


No subgenre has seen a more massive boost in prestige in Hollywood than the comic-book film. It used to be surprising when critically acclaimed young directors like Bryan Singer would take on a project like X-Men, whereas now it’s practically a matter of course for fledgling artists to leap at such an opportunity, and for Oscar-feted stars to burnish their credentials with a superhero jaunt (think Benedict Cumberbatch in Doctor Strange or Cate Blanchett in the upcoming Thor: Ragnarok). But at last, we have an example of this trend running in the opposite direction, of a bulletproof comic-book brand that’s losing much of its luster: the Joker.
When Tim Burton made his first Batman film in 1989, he cast one of Hollywood’s biggest and most dependable stars in the role of Batman’s greatest enemy. Jack Nicholson, already a two-time Academy Award winner (he’d later collect a third trophy in the 1990s), was paid a king’s ransom for the role (his cut of the film’s profits ran to an estimated $50 million) and received top billing above the movie’s ostensible lead Michael Keaton. Since then, the Joker has remained the most prestigious comic-book movie role, winning Heath Ledger a posthumous Oscar for 2008’s The Dark Knight; Jared Leto was cast in the role in Suicide Squad not long after his Oscar win for Dallas Buyers Club.
Hollywood Has a Bad-Movie Problem
Now, it seems, Warner Bros. (who produced all of these Joker films) is desperate to rediscover the cachet that has vanished from the role. Over the last few weeks, widespread industry reports have suggested the studio is simultaneously pursing three Joker projects: a Suicide Squad sequel, a standalone film focusing on the villain’s relationship with his partner in crime Harley Quinn (Margot Robbie), and, mostly bizarrely, a Joker “origin film,” to be directed by Todd Phillips (The Hangover) and produced by Martin Scorsese. Leto would ostensibly star in the first two projects, but for the third, Warners reportedly has a bigger target in mind: Leonardo DiCaprio, who recently won his first Oscar.
DiCaprio is, of course, a longtime collaborator of Scorsese’s (they’ve made five films together), as well as an actor who has branched out into more villainous, challenging roles (as in Quentin Tarantino’s Django Unchained). But according to The Hollywood Reporter, the chances of landing DiCaprio “could be slim to none,” despite Scorsese’s involvement; the very idea of his casting was met with online mockery from many a film publication, along with reports of Leto furiously making his displeasure known to the studio. In 1989, the notion of a Batman movie was risky, but Burton still got Nicholson on board. What’s changed since then? Simply put, studios’ obsession with making franchise films and audiences’ growing backlash against that oversaturation.
The poor critical reception to Leto’s performance in Suicide Squad didn’t help, of course. But even though that film was lambasted, it made serious money, grossing $745 million worldwide, enough to encourage Warner Bros. to greenlight a sequel and the Joker/Harley Quinn spinoff (which will be written and directed by Glenn Ficarra and John Requa of Crazy, Stupid, Love). The studio has invested heavily in its DC Comics franchise and saw major critical and commercial success this year with Wonder Woman. It has Justice League coming in November and films like Aquaman, Flashpoint, Green Lantern Corps, a Wonder Woman sequel, a standalone Batman, and many more on deck, along with the aforementioned Joker movies.
Despite Wonder Woman’s success, the studio’s approach seems to be throwing films at the wall and seeing what sticks, as it’s doing with the Joker projects. The idea, according to The Hollywood Reporter, would be to set up a franchise within a franchise—the Leto films would be part of the main connected universe, but the Scorsese-produced “origin” film could be disconnected and given different branding, to distinguish it and perhaps mollify Leto. Still, “Warners executives are acutely aware of the risks of audience confusion,” the story helpfully notes.
The prospect of multiple Joker films coming out in the new few years is maddening from both a creative and a business perspective. But it’s exactly the kind of moneymaking gamble studios are willing to take as they try to eke out new revenue streams from the same pieces of intellectual property. This summer was officially Hollywood’s lowest-grossing in 10 years ($3.8 billion), with the worst ticket sales in 25 years ($428 million). That’s because big weekends in 2017 were devoted to sequels to films audiences clearly hated (such as the fifth Transformers and the fifth Pirates of the Caribbean); vain attempts to launch entire franchises within one movie (Universal’s The Mummy); and weak cash-ins on ’90s nostalgia (Baywatch, Ghost in the Shell, Power Rangers).
It would be hard for studios to throttle back at this point. Creaky franchises like Transformers, the “monsterverse” (centered on creatures like King Kong and Godzilla), and the “Dark Universe” (revolving around Universal monsters like Dracula and The Mummy) have expensive writers rooms devoted to their continued existence. Studios hire award-winning screenwriters to work with producers and churn out scripts for spinoffs and sequels. It’s why a film centered on the Transformer Bumblebee is in production and why there were several announced sequels to The Mummy in the works before the film even hit theaters.
Hence, the Warner Bros. plan to make three Joker movies simultaneously. The studio seemingly doesn’t care about diluting the brand, a process that’s been slowly happening for decades anyway. The gap between live-action film portrayals of the Joker has narrowed dramatically: It was once 23 years (between Cesar Romero’s take in the 1966 Batman: The Movie and Nicholson). Then, it was 19 years (between Nicholson and Ledger), then eight years (between Ledger and Leto). Now, it could be as little as three. The desperation, with every cast change, is becoming more evident; no wonder Leo isn’t interested.


After an uneven summer and a truly dreadful slate of releases in August, the film calendar finally gets more exciting in the next three months, as indie hits, arthouse triumphs, and Oscar-baiting biopics roll out to audiences. With far fewer sequels, remakes, and franchise efforts to worry about, the season has a lot of promising projects ahead—here are 33, in particular, to look forward to.
It (September 8)
What It Is: The first cinema adaptation of one of Stephen King’s best regarded tomes, It follows a group of pre-teens in the fictional town of Derry, Maine, as they are tormented by the manifestation of their worst fears.
If You Need Convincing: This project cycled through several directors and actors before finally settling on helmer Andy Muschietti (Mama) and casting Bill Skarsgard as the demonic clown Pennywise. That creative tumult often leads to a messy product, but the early buzz on It is positive, and the film’s advertising campaign has been genuinely frightening—you can’t beat a scary clown.
mother! (September 15)
What It Is: Darren Aronofsky’s first film since his 2014 epic Noah, starring Jennifer Lawrence and Javier Bardem as a married couple whose tranquil life in the countryside is upended by the arrival of a mysterious couple (Ed Harris and Michelle Pfeiffer).
If You Need Convincing: The plot of this movie remains shrouded in mystery, though it certainly has the vibe of a suspenseful horror film from its cryptic advertising. But it could represent a real creative bounce-back for Lawrence, who hasn’t starred in a critical hit since 2013’s American Hustle.
Kingsman: The Golden Circle (September 22)
What It Is: The sequel to the surprise 2014 hit Kingsman: The Secret Service, an aggressive, hyper-violent upending of the James Bond formula from the director Matthew Vaughn (Kick-Ass, X-Men: First Class).
If You Need Convincing: This time, the agents of Kingsman (including Taron Egerton, Colin Firth, and Mark Strong) journey to America, where they tangle with an all-star cast including Halle Berry, Channing Tatum, Jeff Bridges, and a villain played by Julianne Moore. The first Kingsman was widely polarizing but drew some raves for its gleeful mockery of British class stratification.
Mark Felt: The Man Who Brought Down the White House (September 29)
What It Is: A biopic about the FBI lifer Mark Felt (Liam Neeson), who became the anonymous source “Deep Throat” for reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein and aided the investigation into the Watergate scandal that toppled the Nixon presidency.
If You Need Convincing: Neeson, with grey hair and a slimmed-down frame, is a dead ringer for Felt; the film also features Diane Lane as his wife Audrey and Michael C. Hall (Dexter) as White House counsel John Dean. Writer/director Peter Landesman, a former New York Times journalist, last made the NFL expose Concussion.
Blade Runner 2049 (October 6)
What It Is: Thirty-five years later, a sequel to Ridley Scott’s sci-fi masterpiece, now starring Ryan Gosling (as a new “Blade Runner,” Officer K, hunting android “replicants”) and directed by Denis Villeneuve (coming off of an Oscar nomination for 2016’s great piece of sci-fi, Arrival).
If You Need Convincing: Harrison Ford is back as Rick Deckard but in a more limited role that seems reminiscent of his performance in Star Wars: The Force Awakens. The film’s larger plot, outside of Officer K and Deckard linking up to solve a mystery, is unknown, but the ensemble includes Jared Leto, Mackenzie Davis, and a returning Edward James Olmos as Gaff. Get your unicorn origami ready!
The Florida Project (October 6)
What It Is: The most expansive film yet from the director Sean Baker (whose last film, the surprise 2015 hit Tangerine, was filmed on an iPhone). Set in and around a low-rent motel in Orlando, Florida, the film follows Moonee (Brooklynn Prince), a mischievous 6-year-old, as she gets up to hijinks and bothers the motel manager Bobby (Willem Dafoe).
If You Need Convincing: Baker has graduated from the world of micro-budget filmmaking to the regular, small-budget indie world here. The Florida Project is joyous, stressful, and heartbreaking, and features a subtle, sensitive performance from Dafoe that deserves serious awards attention.
Marshall (October 13)
What It Is: A biopic about a young Thurgood Marshall (Chadwick Boseman, who has already convincingly played Jackie Robinson and James Brown and now adds a third icon of American history). The film essays Marshall’s work as an NAACP attorney on a specific case, a specious rape charge against a man named Joseph Spell (Sterling K. Brown) in Greenwich, Connecticut.
If You Need Convincing: The film is clearly a passion project for the African American director Reginald Hudlin, who has not made a film in 15 years (he’s mostly worked in television and as a producer in recent years). Marshall also features Josh Gad, Kate Hudson, Dan Stevens, and James Cromwell.
The Snowman (October 20)
What It Is: The latest helping of Nordic noir is an adaptation of the best-selling crime thriller by Jo Nesbø; Michael Fassbender stars as Detective Harry Hole, on the hunt of a serial killer with the help of a brilliant recruit (Rebecca Ferguson).
If You Need Convincing: The film is directed by Tomas Alfredson, the Swedish director who excels at moody, frightening works of high tension, including Let the Right One In and Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy.
(BPM) Beats Per Minute (October 20)
What It Is: Also known as 120 Beats Per Minute, Robin Campillo’s new film was a hit at this year’s Cannes Film Festival, where it won the Grand Prix. Set in France in the 1990s, it follows a group of AIDS activists who were part of the advocacy group ACT UP.
If You Need Convincing: The sweeping biopic drew some of the biggest raves of the year at Cannes, drawing comparisons to Larry Kramer’s play The Normal Heart as a landmark work of gay history.
Wonderstruck (October 20)
What It Is: The new film from Todd Haynes (Velvet Goldmine, Far From Heaven, Carol) is a somewhat surprising choice for the director—an adaptation of a children’s book by Brian Selznick. It debuted at Cannes to positive reviews.
If You Need Convincing: The film stars frequent Haynes collaborator Julianne Moore but sounds rather daring from a storytelling perspective, focusing on two parallel plotlines (one in 1927, one in 1977) and following two children on special quests through art museums in search of mysterious heroes.
The Killing of a Sacred Deer (October 27)
What It Is: A bizarre, demented fable of a doctor (Colin Farrell) who is handed an impossible choice regarding the life of his wife (Nicole Kidman) and their children; a grim fairy tale, as funny as it is horrifying. In other words, the new film from the Greek maestro Yorgos Lanthimos (Dogtooth, The Lobster).
If You Need Convincing: Lanthimos isn’t for everyone. But nobody makes movies like him, and Farrell (so good in The Lobster) has become his muse, reciting his odd, robotic dialogue better than anyone. The Killing of a Sacred Deer is even stranger and scarier than the film that got Lanthimos an Oscar nomination, but it still deserves to be seen.
The Square (October 27)
What It Is: A searing, epic, 140-minute satire of social mores and political correctness from Ruben Östlund, the Swedish director behind the 2014 crossover hit Force Majeure. The Square is about a lot of things—the fine line between works of art and publicity campaigns, the tenuous grasp progressives have on their views of the world—and it’s just as searing, if more sprawling, as Ostlund’s last film.
If You Need Convincing: Thanks to the international cachet of his last film, Ostlund has drawn in a bigger cast for The Square, including Elisabeth Moss and Dominic West, who all have brilliantly funny set-pieces devoted to them.
Suburbicon (October 27)
What It Is: A long-awaited crime comedy that’s some 30 years in the making. Directed by George Clooney, the film (about the dark underbelly of a dull American suburb) was first written by the Coen brothers in 1986, shortly after the release of their first movie, Blood Simple.
If You Need Convincing: Clooney has assembled an all-star cast for this strange little black comedy, including Matt Damon, Oscar Isaac, and Julianne Moore; though he hasn’t made a great movie in a few years, he’s still the Oscar-nominated director behind the excellent Good Night, and Good Luck (2005).
Thor: Ragnarok (November 3)
What It Is: The latest Marvel Cinematic Universe effort, the newest in a never-ending barrage of superhero films that now come thrice a year. But don’t turn back! The Thor series has always been most in touch with Marvel’s zany Technicolor storytelling vibe, and Ragnarok, which follows Thor’s adventures in space with the Hulk (Mark Ruffalo), looks like a hoot.
If You Need Convincing: Cate Blanchett is playing the villain Hela (the Norse goddess of death), but more importantly, it’s being directed by Taika Waititi, the up-and-coming New Zealander whose last feature was Hunt for the Wilderpeople, one of the most charming comedies of 2016.
Murder on the Orient Express (November 10)
What It Is: Kenneth Branagh directs and stars as Hercule Poirot, trying to solve one of Agatha Christie’s most famous mysteries. Did the butler do it? Has Poirot’s mustache finally been styled too ridiculously? We’ll soon find out.
If You Need Convincing: The passengers on the Orient Express include Penélope Cruz, Willem Dafoe, Judi Dench, Josh Gad, Derek Jacobi, Hamilton’s Leslie Odom Jr., Michelle Pfeiffer, Daisy Ridley, and Johnny Depp.
Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri (November 10)
What It Is: Mildred Hayes (Frances McDormand) is trying to solve the murder of her daughter in a small Missouri town. Angered that the police aren’t doing their job, she takes out three advertisements to try and shame them into action.
If You Need Convincing: This riotous-looking black comedy looks like career-best work from McDormand and comes from the writer-director Martin McDonagh, the great Irish playwright behind dark film comedies like In Bruges and Seven Psychopaths.
Justice League (November 17)
What It Is: Remember how the DC Comics cinema universe suddenly seemed exciting and fun in the wake of Wonder Woman? This will be the true test if that can be sustained, a team-up film featuring Superman (Henry Cavill), Batman (Ben Affleck), the aforementioned Diana Prince (Gal Gadot), Aquaman (Jason Momoa), The Flash (Ezra Miller), and Cyborg (Ray Fisher).
If You Need Convincing: This film’s production has been chaotic following the tragic death of the director Zack Snyder’s daughter, with the established comic-book hand Joss Whedon coming in to rewrite the script and shoot a bunch of new footage. So even the trailers probably don’t offer a lot of clues on what Justice League will end up being.
Coco (November 22)
What It Is: A new Pixar film, the company’s first original work since 2015’s The Good Dinosaur, which is centered around the Mexican Day of the Dead and its accompanying folklore. It follows Miguel, a young aspiring musician who finds himself in the Land of the Dead, exploring his family history.
If You Need Convincing: Director Lee Unkrich’s last film was Toy Story 3, one of the company’s all-time biggest hits, but he worked closely with the Mexican American animator Adrian Molina (who wrote and co-directed the film with him).
Molly’s Game (November 22)
What It Is: The directorial debut of Aaron Sorkin, based on the true-life memoir of Molly Bloom, who ran high-stakes, underground poker games in the worlds of Hollywood and high finance. Jessica Chastain stars as Molly, who rubbed shoulders with movie stars and the Russian mob before being targeted by an FBI investigation.
If You Need Convincing: Sorkin has long been destined to write and direct, but it’s still an intriguing new challenge for him—he’s never done it before, not even on the TV shows he’s created (like The West Wing or The Newsroom).
Call Me by Your Name (November 24)
What It Is: One of the most hyped Oscar players of the year is this swooning coming-of-age drama, directed by Luca Guadagnino (A Bigger Splash), written by James Ivory, and based on the acclaimed novel by André Aciman. It follows the budding romance between a young man named Elio (Timothée Chalamet) and an older academic called Oliver (Armie Hammer) in an Italian villa in the 1980s.
If You Need Convincing: The film has been wildly hyped at every film festival it has played at, with Hammer and Michael Stuhlbarg’s performances drawing particular acclaim.
Other films to look out for: Nicholas Hoult stars in the J.D. Salinger biopic Rebel in the Rye (September 8); Enlightened creator Mike White directs Ben Stiller in the indie comedy Brad’s Status (September 15); Steve Carell and Emma Stone are Bobby Riggs and Billie Jean King in Battle of the Sexes (September 22); Tom Cruise plays a real-life DEA renegade in American Made (September 29); Kate Winslet and Idris Elba are stranded on a mountain in The Mountain Between Us (October 6); Gerard Butler fights weather gone wild in the so-bad-it’s-great Geostorm (October 20); Margaret Qualley plays a young nun in acclaimed drama Novitiate (October 27); the bad moms are back for more mischief in A Bad Moms Christmas (November 3); Woody Harrelson plays the belligerent president in Rob Reiner’s biopic LBJ (November 3); Richard Linklater directs the war dramedy Last Flag Flying (November 3), Greta Gerwig makes her directorial debut with the comedy Lady Bird (November 10); Gary Oldman inhabits Winston Churchill in his Darkest Hour (November 22); and Benedict Cumberbatch plays Thomas Edison in The Current War (November 24).


The Ferryman, the first new play from Jez Butterworth in five years, opens with the revelation that a body has been found. It’s late August 1981 in Northern Ireland during the height of the Troubles, when hunger strikers were rallying attention and support for the Irish Republican cause. In the play’s first scene, a priest is summoned by an IRA leader—not to facilitate a burial for the dead man, but to keep his family quiet. “You see, Father,” Magennis, an IRA member says, “there’s no oxygen down there. The peat is acidic. It pickles you. The years roll by and nothing changes.”
Seamus Carney, whose body has been found remarkably intact, with his Timex wristwatch, his wallet, and his Gola sneakers, is one of the Disappeared, the 16 men and women who were killed by the IRA and whose bodies were buried in unknown locations, with their families left to wonder for decades whether they were dead or alive. This is the premise of The Ferryman, a critical and commercial smash directed by Sam Mendes (Skyfall), which transferred to London’s West End in June after debuting at the Royal Court Theatre in April. The play is set at harvest time, as Seamus’s older brother, Quinn (Paddy Considine), brings in the bulk of his crops for the year. The timing is no coincidence: Everyone in the play, in one way or another, is reaping what’s been sown.
Escaped Alone Finds Comfort at the End of the World
Butterworth, an Englishman, didn’t set out to write a play set during the Troubles; if anything, he told me, it felt like “a terrible idea, a really really bad one.” Fragments of the play had been percolating in his mind for decades: a work based in part on the experiences of his partner at the time, the actress Laura Donnelly, who plays Caitlin Carney in The Ferryman and whose uncle was disappeared seven months before she was born. “I didn’t want to begin,” Butterworth said, “but once the voices start coming to you, and the plot starts coming to you, you haven’t really got a choice.”
But what sets The Ferryman apart, even from Butterworth’s other successes (his 2009 play Jerusalem was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Play), is how deeply it probes the heritage of hate, using the framework of the Troubles to explore traditions and impulses that are buried even in the earth itself. In the same bog where Seamus was found, Magennis notes, prehistoric men have resurfaced, sometimes with their hands and feet bound, victims of crimes that predate the history books. The Ferryman, an intimate family drama with the breadth of Greek tragedy, explores the impact of deeply entrenched discord on a community that has conflict in its DNA, whose children are raised on folk tales about fierce, warmongering fairies, and who bear the cost of choices made decades ago, the toll passed down from generation to generation.
* * *
Butterworth is a prolific writer for film and television. He contributed to the script for the last Bond movie, Spectre, and cowrote both the Valerie Plame biopic Fair Game, starring Naomi Watts and Sean Penn, and the 2015 Whitey Bulger biopic Black Mass. He’s a writer on the upcoming drama Britannia, a fantastical, Game of Thrones-style series starring David Morrissey and Kelly Reilly. But plays, for him, come slowly. His last show before The Ferryman was The River, which ran in 2012 in productions in London and New York starring, variously, Dominic West and Hugh Jackman. Jerusalem, which debuted in 2009 in a production starring Mark Rylance, was previously his biggest hit to date. “I think for some reason I’ve made film much more of a technique-based thing,” he said. “It’s way more of a craft than I’ve allowed plays to be. I do see them very differently. I don’t have many original ideas for anything. I tend to work for film in a kind of hired-gun capacity, and as such it feels like a blessed relief.”
The idea for The Ferryman coagulated in 2015, when Butterworth was in New York for The River, heading to a cabin owned by Neil Pepe, the artistic director of the Atlantic Theater Company. Butterworth had previously written a significant portion of his play Parlour Song there, after being snowed in while alone. In the car with Donnelly, he suddenly had the idea to write something about Northern Ireland, and when he ran it by her, she replied that it sounded like a story. When he got to the cabin, Butterworth wrote out a skeleton plan for the play, in a shift from his typical process. “Usually, when I’m writing a play, I just follow my nose,” he said. Then he left the concept alone for two years, until, in early 2017, he sat down and started writing. The pace of writing—an idea mulled for several years, followed by a feverish burst of activity—was normal, he said. “They kind of find their way into being. … I do think there’s something about not being in a hurry with things. You want them to feel indelible and worthwhile and not of their time, because they take so much out of you.”
Seamus Carney, whose body has been found at the beginning of the play, disappeared on New Year’s Day 1972, the beginning of the bloodiest year of the Troubles, when 479 people died in the conflict between the Catholic Irish Republicans and the Protestant Unionists. After he disappeared, his wife, Caitlin (Donnelly), and his son, Oisin (Rob Malone), went to stay with Seamus’s older brother, Quinn, who runs the family farm with his wife, Mary (Genevieve O’Reilly), and their seven children. Caitlin’s presence over the past decade has upended the family dynamic; Mary now mostly stays upstairs, suffering the symptoms of a number of vague viruses, while Caitlin helps raise the children, and shares a close relationship with Quinn.
Also living on the farm are Uncle Patrick (Des McAleer), a genial drunkard who recites Virgil, Aunt Patricia (Dearbhla Molloy), the fiercest family devotee to the Republican cause, and Aunt Maggie Faraway (Bríd Brennan), so-called because she drifts in and out of lucidity. Maggie’s poetic interludes, with their fragments of history and glimpses into family lore, give the play a sense of magical realism. In one instance, Maggie recalls how Aunt Pat’s beloved brother Michael was killed in the Easter Rising of 1916, after which Aunt Pat returned home clutching his pistol in a blood-stained handkerchief, while thousands of banshees howled around the grief-stricken and furious sister.
Over and over, the play alludes to the idea of purgatory, where lost souls wait to get to heaven. Uncle Pat quotes from The Aeneid, where the Ferryman who gives the play its name ushers the buried dead to the afterlife. Seamus, unable until now to have a Christian burial, lingers in a purgatory of his own, but so does his wife. “Sure, a kneecapping hurts,” Quinn says. “Even with a death. There’s a body. She can grieve. In time the pain finds a home. But take a man out to a bog in the middle of nowhere. Put a bullet in his head. Then send friends to the widow to tell her they’ve seen him. … Give that woman hope. Keep the wound open. It’s genius, sure it is.”
The play’s themes are both timely and timeless, illuminating the thorny topics of Confederate history in the United States and ISIS attacks in Europe, and the appeal of extremist causes to disaffected young men. In Act Two, the Carneys’ cousins, the three Corcoran boys, come to the farm from the city to help with the harvest, and in a drunken late-night melee in Act Three, the oldest, Shane Corcoran (Tom Glynn-Carney), brags about his involvement with the IRA, trying to wow the country boys with his amped-up antics. Built into the structure of the scene, Butterworth said, is a sense of “delving deep into the past for reasons to still be angry, and to feel that there’s still a fight. You can look at the Corcoran boys and look at those pictures of the four people who were radicalized in Barcelona. The process of radicalization is going on in that late-night scene—the reasons why it happens, and the fact that it’s not necessarily only political.”
But the allure of the family fight has deeper roots still. Diarmaid Corcoran (Conor MacNeill) tells his cousins how, at the funeral for Bobby Sands, an 80-year-old woman on the bus spray-painted “JUSTICE” on the back of his and his brother’s leather jackets as a mantra for the young protestors to remember what they’re working for. The most ferocious IRA supporter on the farm is Aunt Pat, a woman pickled not by peat but by her own desire for revenge. Hearing Margaret Thatcher on the radio, Aunt Pat declares her wish to “disembowel that smirking sanctimonious, stone-hearted sow right here on this table,” and when Quinn protests, she responds, “Have you forgotten your own history there, Quinn Carney? Good luck with that, is all I’ll say.”
More than countless other re-litigations of the Troubles, The Ferryman captures how the mission for Northern Irish independence has become a religion itself, captivating and bloodthirsty, and requiring seemingly endless sacrifices to keep it alive. There are totems and symbols that recur throughout the play: watches and a particular pistol, which becomes a physical manifestation of enmity being passed from one person to another. “I love this one!” the 11-year-old Nunu exclaims when Aunt Maggie begins an ancient fairy tale. “It’s so violent!” And when an IRA leader confronts Quinn, who left the organization a decade ago, he reminds Quinn of his pledge: “You looked me in the eye and said you’d watch that baby burn in a fire, if it meant a free Ireland. And I thought, ‘That is what it takes. That is the cost of freedom. The price is unimaginable. And here is a man who knows that. And is willing to pay it.’”
For audiences in London, a city that lived through IRA bombings in the ’70s and ’80s, the show has the luxury of historical distance from the Troubles. It can excavate the dimensions of a conflict that was often interpreted at the time through the bluntest political rhetoric. Given that the play has already recouped its investment in London, and that Butterworth’s previous works have gone to Broadway, it seems likely, he said, that this one will also move across the Atlantic at some point. And as The Ferryman has resonated with English audiences, it will have its own imprint on Americans, whose history with hatred is as different as it’s the same. The show’s universality, Butterworth said, “comes back to the fact that the ideas that really haunt you have a universal quality to them. That it wouldn’t matter where you’re from or how old you are or how you got to the theater that day. They’ll gain traction, and quickly.”


This story contains spoilers through the end of Twin Peaks: The Return.
Never let it be said that David Lynch leaves his audiences unsatisfied. Presented with the challenge of finding a suitable conclusion to his dazzling, incomparable 18-hour odyssey Twin Peaks: The Return, the director gave viewers the best of both worlds. The first hour of Sunday’s two-episode finale was as clean an ending as fans could have expected from a series that so often defied the most basic concepts of television plotting. And the second hour saw that all unravel, with a resolution that was at once tedious and mesmerizing, a jolt of primal horror delivered to provoke utter bewilderment. It was a conclusion that seemed to undo the show’s entire existence, while leaving us with as many questions as before.
But there’s nothing wrong with questions. “Good art asks questions, you know?” the show’s star, Kyle MacLachlan, said in an interview given after the finale aired. And Twin Peaks: The Return was good art indeed, diverging from the 1990 ABC series it sequelized in so many ways but giving viewers the same thing its forbear did: a television experience genuinely unlike anything that had come before. In the months since the revival debuted, I’ve been foolish enough to try and predict where its story arcs might be heading, what conflicts might be bubbling to the surface week to week. But the creators Lynch and Mark Frost (who cowrote every episode together, with Lynch directing) never let an episode pass without a scene that rendered me dumbfounded at its ambition.
Twin Peaks Returns to Terrify, Delight, and Confound
There are too many to list, but I’ll try and recall at least a few: Agent Dale Cooper’s navigation of a mystical black-and-white fortress, the beginning of a particularly trying hero’s journey. The trials and tribulations of “Mr. Jackpots,” the perennial casino winner bankrupting its beleaguered bosses in one crazy night. The first reveal of an older Bobby Briggs (Dana Ashbrook, one of the most revelatory performances of the year), gazing at a portrait of his long-dead girlfriend Laura Palmer. The execution of Chantal (Jennifer Jason Leigh) and Hutch (Tim Roth) by an angry Polish man. Evil Cooper’s arm-wrestling match with a Teutonic gangster. A visceral rant, delivered from a stopped car, by an unnamed female driver trying to get her family home. The endless depths of the show’s magical eighth episode, detailing the birth of the villainous Bob and the behaviors of the sooty “woodsmen” who accompany him. And the slow, sensuous dream dance of Audrey Horne (Sherilyn Fenn), seemingly trapped in the prison of her own mind, to close the sixteenth episode.
If Showtime’s Twin Peaks had an overarching plot, it was about the return of Dale Cooper, split into two bodies: one a half-mute simulacrum called Dougie, incapable of much more than parroting back whatever was said to him, and the other Bob himself, inhabiting Cooper’s body and seeding mayhem across America. Their inevitable confrontation was drawn-out, but in the show’s penultimate episode, it finally came to pass, with Evil Cooper laid out by the well-meaning police secretary Lucy, and Good Cooper finally shaken out of his reverie, there to watch the destruction of his tormentor.
This was the “satisfying” part—I put that word in quotes not because the episode wasn’t a joy to watch, but because for Twin Peaks, a satisfying plot resolution still features some of the most confusing imagery I’ve ever witnessed on television. Bob (the late Frank Silva, whose image was used with great and sparing power by Lynch in this revival) emerged from Cooper’s body as a spinning globe of hate; he was eventually destroyed by Freddie (Jake Wardle), a comparatively minor character with superhuman punching power, delivering a literal right hook to the jaw of evil incarnate.
But what to make of the finale—Episode 18—itself? It was, for the most part, a haunted trek through the series’s deepest, darkest psychological scar, the murder and abuse of Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee), the show’s iconic victim and the protagonist of Lynch’s wrenchingly sad film, Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me. Many times throughout Twin Peaks: The Return, characters have been treated to a vision of a vortex in the sky, a swirling portal to another world where supernatural beings of emotion try to guide them through their fated paths. Whether this portal is allegory or pure, soaring fantasy, Lynch has always specialized in giving unique flesh to our sorrows, our pains, and our desires to be better or to wallow in pity. The show’s “Black Lodge,” or this series’s black-and-white fortress (rendered as a sort of cinema of the mind’s eye), are beautiful, but confounding realms of darkness and light, seemingly serving as proving grounds for Cooper’s heroic odyssey back into the real world.
The FBI agent’s final journey was centered around Laura, the young woman whose murder he successfully solved in the original series. In the Twin Peaks: The Return finale, after witnessing Bob’s destruction, Cooper traveled back to the scene of Laura’s murder, guiding her away from the crime and apparently erasing it from the show’s history (archival footage of the pilot ended with no body being found wrapped in plastic along the shore). But then, after an unnerving car drive and sex scene with his assistant Diane (Laura Dern), Cooper found himself in a random motel in Texas, subsequently discovering Laura living under a different name, unaware of her identity. As Cooper took Laura to her childhood home, the place where she was tormented by Bob (possessing the body of her father), he found a different family living there; suddenly confused, he asked, “What year is it?” as Laura let out an unearthly scream.
Some devoted fans of the show will debate the semiotic meaning of every scene and gesture in the finale, to try and puzzle out whatever new nightmare Dale and Laura have created for themselves. Cooper’s quest to save Laura, in the end, seemed recursive, and his search for some magical deliverance at her old home (such a portentous place) seemed especially misguided; it felt like Lynch trying to depict the ultimate foolishness of thinking every loose end can be tied up, that every wrong can be undone.
Toward the end of the season, FBI Deputy Director Gordon Cole (played by Lynch) recalled a dream he had in which the actress Monica Bellucci (playing herself) spoke to him at a restaurant in Paris. “We are like the dreamer who dreams and then lives inside the dream,” she told him, adding with a hint of worry, “But who is the dreamer?” There’s no better way to sum up the world of Twin Peaks all the way through its finale. Is Cooper dreaming this all up? Is Lynch? Are the viewers? Whatever the answer, we’re all living inside the dream, forever seeking that dreamer.


The release schedule for the next few months of music is chockablock with new voices, classic names, and bands in the process of transitioning from the first category to the second. I’ve collected some of the more interesting-looking albums below. Note that this list only includes music for which a release date has been announced—a significant limitation in the era of the surprise album drop.
September 8
The National, Sleep Well Beast
This generation’s glum-funny heir to Leonard Cohen, Matt Berninger, delivers unusually lucid lyrics as his now-venerable Brooklyn band experiments with drum machines and snarling guitar solos.Listen to: “The System Only Dreams in Total Darkness”
Syd, Always Never Home
What it is: The dreamy R&B singer already released one acclaimed album this year and now delivers a so-called “feature soundtrack” that promises more immersive, shape-shifting storytelling.Listen to: “Bad Dream / No Looking Back”
Ted Leo, The Hanged Man
The cult-beloved power-pop bandleader’s first album in seven years is a catchy, urgent, and inventive cry against complacency in all its forms.Listen to: “You’re Like Me”
Tori Amos, Native Invader
Donald Trump’s election caused the storied singer-songwriter to scrap much of her planned 15th album so as to address the political moment, but she retains her evocative style and interest in the natural world.Listen to: “Cloud Riders”
Neil Young, Hitchhiker
One of the “lost albums” Neil Young recorded in the late ’70s, the acoustic Hitchhiker includes early takes on some of the icon’s classic songs as well as two previously unheard cuts.Listen to: “Hitchhiker”
September 15
Prophets of Rage, Prophets Of Rage
Members of Rage Against the Machine, Public Enemy, and Cypress Hill teamed up for a protest-music tour during the 2016 election and now are releasing a batch of slogan-slinging originals.Listen to: “Radical Eyes”
Gucci Mane, Mr. Davis
The Atlanta rap charmer has been on a tear since leaving prison in 2016, and his third album in a year boasts an all-star roster of collaborators including Nicki Minaj and The Weeknd.Listen to: “I Get the Bag,” featuring Migos
Ringo Starr, Give More Love
The two living Beatles reunite for the rambunctious opener to Ringo’s 19th solo album, and there’s a little more help from Ringo’s friends—Joe Walsh, Peter Frampton, Edgar Winter—later in the track list.Listen to: “We’re On the Road Again,” featuring Paul McCartney
September 22
Godspeed You! Black Emperor, Luciferian Towers
The masters of the gorgeously ominous instrumental epic have an especially anarchist raison d’etre on their sixth album, which arrives with a list of political demands and a three-part closer called “Anthem for No State.”Listen to: “Storm” (from 2000’s Lift Your Skinny Fists Like Antennas to Heaven)
Cut Copy, Haiku From Zero
The smartest and slickest of this century’s new-wave revival acts say that they channeled modern information overload while recording their latest set of glitterball anthems.Listen to: “Standing in the Middle of the Field”
The Killers, Wonderful WonderfulEarly hints about the “Mr. Brightside” authors’ first album in five years indicates even greater levels of nostalgia, irony, and Oingo Boingo influence with which to rock arenas than before.Listen to: “Run for Cover”
Leon Russell, On a Distant Shore
The blues rocker who saw a late-in-life resurgence in popularity thanks to a collaboration with Elton John recorded this set of originals and standards before his death last fall.Listen to: “Love This Way”
Midland, On the Rocks
This new country trio is drawing buzz for following Chris Stapleton’s example by harkening back to “classic” country and rock sounds—but with the pop sheen associated with their hitmaking Nashville label Big Machine Records.Listen to: “Drinkin’ Problem”
September 29
Kamasi Washington, Harmony of Difference EP
A jazz saxophonist enjoying rare crossover stardom in the worlds of pop and hip-hop in part due to collaborations with Kendrick Lamar, Washington is releasing six songs he first debuted at the Whitney Biennial earlier this year.Listen to: “Truth”
Miley Cyrus, Younger Now
No longer a pop provocateur, Cyrus is rebooting herself as a soft-edged rocker and country singer—though the quirk in her voice definitely remains.Listen to: “Malibu”
Protomartyr, Relatives In Descent    
This Detroit punk-poetry act has emerged as one of the most interesting new bands in years, and a blazing new single hints this fourth album could bring them a wider audience.Listen to: “A Private Understanding”
Shania Twain, Now
The country-crossover megastar of the ’90s returns to build on the generational goodwill that has accumulated in the 15 years since she last released an album.Listen to: “Life’s About to Get Good”
Wolf Alice, Visions of a Life
The British alternative rock band has been bubbling as a next-big-thing contender for a few years now, and the singles from their sophomore album offer a tasty blend of dreaminess and aggression.Listen to: “Don’t Delete the Kisses”
October 6
Kelela, Take Me Apart
After years of tinkering, the acclaimed and futuristic singer says her proper debut will reflect her identity as “a black woman [and] a second-generation Ethiopian American, who grew up in the 'burbs listening to R&B, jazz, and Björk.”Listen to: “LMK”
October 13
Robert Plant, Carry Fire
What it is: The Led Zeppelin legend’s latest single shares its name with a “Stairway to Heaven” lyric, but Plant has said he’s journeying to new musical territory, and his solo career to date suggests it’ll be worth following him there.Listen to: “The May Queen”
Beck, ColorsWhat it is: The follow-up to Beck’s beautifully downbeat surprise Grammy Album of the Year winner, Morning Phase, should see the chameleonic songwriter returning to the realm of bold, upbeat pop.Listen to: “Wow”
Wu-Tang Clan, Wu-Tang: The Saga ContinuesWhat it is: The strange saga of their previous album—whose one copy ended up in the hands of Martin Shkreli—seemingly concluded, the rap collective has made what RZA calls a “masterpiece” that will be, refreshingly, available to all.Listen to: “People Say”
Kurt Vile and Courtney Barnett, Lotta Sea Lice
What it is: Two of the most distinctive singer/songwriters to recently rise in indie rock now blend their dry wits and lackadaisical charm.Listen to: “Over Everything”
October 20
Lindstrøm, It’s Alright Between Us As It Is
This Norwegian electronic musician can be relied on for breezily melodic dance music to energize not only nightclubs but also workdays.Listen to: “Shinin,” featuring Grace Hall
Destroyer, Ken
The poet-weirdo of The New Pornographers, Dan Bejar, offers his 12th album of oddly beautiful lounge rock with hissed, heady lyrics.Listen to: “Sky’s Grey”
October 27
Weezer, Pacific Daydream
Last year’s “white album” was the best and most heartfelt release in years from these California pop-rock stalwarts; now comes the seasonally inappropriate, beach-themed follow-up.Listen to: “Feels Like Summer”
Julien Baker, Turn Out the Lights
A rising Memphis folk-rock singer capable of disarming delicacy and forthrightness, Baker is releasing the follow-up to an acclaimed 2015 debut.Listen to: “Appointments”
November 10
Taylor Swift, Reputation
Her two confrontational, hip-hop-inflected singles suggest that the pop titan most of America could once agree on is looking to start arguments this time out.Listen to: “Ready for It”
November 17Morrissey, Low in High School
The ever-arch, ever-quarrelsome, and never-humble singer from The Smiths “[captures] the zeitgeist of an ever-changing world” on his 11th solo album, says his label.Listen to: “Suedehead” (from 1988’s Viva Hate)


Each year, I keep a running list of exceptional nonfiction that I encounter as I publish The Best of Journalism, an email newsletter that I curate weekly for its subscribers. This is my annual attempt to bring roughly 100 of those stories that stood the test of time to a wider audience. I could not read or note every worthy article published in the past few years, and I haven't included any paywalled articles or anything published at The Atlantic. But everything that follows is worthy of wider attention and engagement. I hope it provides fodder for reflection and inspiration for future writing. My thanks to all of the publishers, editors and, writers who made these gems possible.
POPULAR MECHANICS / Marooned Among the Polar Bears by Justin Nobel
“Sergey Ananov is trapped on a slab of ice in the Arctic Circle. He has no locator beacon, no phone, and barely any water. The fog will hide him from any rescuers. Night will come. Hypothermia will come. And whatever large, powerful creatures that scratch out their existence in this primordial world—maybe they will come too.”
STARTUP / Season Four by Lisa Chow (audio)
Dov Charney recounts his rise and fall at American Apparel and tries to make a comeback.
THE NEW YORKER / Citizen Khan by Kathryn Schulz
“Wyoming is huge—you could fit all of New England inside it, then throw in Hawaii and Maryland for good measure—but it is the least populous state in the Union; under six hundred thousand people live there, fewer than in Louisville, Kentucky. Its Muslim population is correspondingly tiny—perhaps seven or eight hundred people. Contrary to the claims of Stop Islam in Gillette, however, the Muslims who established the mosque are not new to the region. Together with some twenty per cent of all Muslims in Wyoming, they trace their presence back more than a hundred years, to 1909, when a young man named Zarif Khan immigrated to the American frontier.”
DAGBLADET / The Baby in the Plastic Bag by Bernt Jakob Oksnes
“The plastic bag is stained with blood. He leans down, grasps one of the handles, and realises that there is yet another carrier bag inside the first, its handles knotted together. As he works to untie the knot, muffled whimpers can be heard from within. The knot gives way and the plastic handles slide apart. As Tor glances inside the bag, he beholds what lies within. It is a human being. A living newborn baby, blue and cold.”
CHICAGO MAGAZINE / Dispatches From the Rap Wars by Forrest Stuart
“For the gang—and others like it—the rappers are designated as the ticket out of poverty. It becomes the responsibility of the rest of the members to support and protect them. Each rapper has ‘shooters.’ These are members who make good on the threats the rappers dish out in their lyrics. And, yes, that means shooting—and sometimes killing—people. CBE has about a dozen shooters. A.J. may be the one holding an automatic weapon in his Instagram photos, but he has never shot at the opps.”
ROADS & KINGDOMS / The Barnacle Queens of the Spanish Seaside by Matt Goulding
“When she left her job to work the rocks, she fell instantly in love with almost everything about her new profession: the open air, the ever-changing office space, the sisterly camaraderie. But she didn’t love the way she and her fellow women were treated.”
GQ / Inside the Federal Bureau of Way Too Many Guns by Jeanne Marie Laskas
“There's no telling how many guns we have in America—and when one gets used in a crime, no way for the cops to connect it to its owner. The only place the police can turn for help is a Kafkaesque agency in West Virginia, where, thanks to the gun lobby, computers are illegal and detective work is absurdly antiquated. On purpose. Thing is, the geniuses who work there are quietly inventing ways to do the impossible.”
SPIEGEL / Three Shepherds on a Surreal Front by Christoph Reuter
“The attempt to retake Mosul from Islamic State has been underway for almost two weeks. Resistance is fierce and chaos on the front lines has resulted in some surreal scenes.”
HUFFPOST / Meet the Ungers by Jason Fagone
“When they were young, 230 men and one woman were convicted of terrible crimes—murders, rapes, robberies. They thought they were going to die in prison. They were supposed to. But then, just a few years back, Merle Unger Jr., one of the most notorious escape artists of our time, discovered an ingenious (and legal) way to get them out. It was an unimagined second chance for them—and a nerve-wracking experiment for everyone else.”
THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE / David’s Ankles: How Imperfections Could Bring Down the World’s Most Perfect Statue by Sam Anderson
“My mind could not stop imagining it. An earthquake hits the center of Florence: The church bells ring out of time, terra cotta tiles rain down from the Renaissance rooftops, priceless paintings rattle off the walls of the Uffizi. Meanwhile, inside the Accademia Gallery, the David’s pedestal begins to tilt. Slightly at first, just enough to shift the statue’s gaze, so that he looks not at his old enemy anymore—the implied Goliath off in the distance—but at a new one: the floor he’s been standing on for 134 years.”
THE LOS ANGELES TIMES / Framed by Christopher Goffard
“She ran down the hall, seized by panic. She thought it must be about her husband, who was now working as a traveling wine salesman. He was on the road all the time, and she thought he’d been in an accident. Officer Charles Shaver tried to calm her down. He was not here about her husband. Did she have anything in her car she shouldn’t have?”
VANITY FAIR / Joan Rivers’s Remarkable Rise to (and Devastating Fall From) Comedy’s Highest Ranks by Leslie Bennetts
“Only a few months earlier, Joan Rivers had everything she ever wanted: fame and fortune, the job of her dreams, a loyal husband, a loving child, a lavish estate—and a future that beckoned with enticing possibilities. After years of struggle, she had not only succeeded as a comedian, but made history on the newly launched FOX Network as television’s first and only female late-night talk show host. And now she’d lost it all.”
ESPN / O.J.: Made in America (video)
The year’s best documentary.
THE WASHINGTON POST / From Belief to Outrage: The Decline of the Middle Class Reaches the Next American Town by Eli Saslow
“Fast-food consumption was beginning to tick up. Foreclosures were up. Meth usage up. Heroin up. Death rate up. In Dan Quayle’s Middle America, one of the biggest news stories of the year had been the case of a mother who had let her three-week-old child suck heroin off her finger.”
THE WEEKLY STANDARD / Big Budget Items by Andrew Ferguson
“As you walked around you got the idea that here, right here, after 200 years of ceaseless propulsion across a vast continent, the American dream had finally come to rest. This is where it had been heading all along. And then you turned a corner and saw that Frank Gehry didn't like it.”
VIRGINIA QUARTERLY REVIEW/ Vertical Descent by Elisabeth Donnelly
“If sport, in the truest, downright ancient-Olympic sense of the word, is embodied by a lone warrior running to Marathon to tell the troops news of war, then ‘synchro,’ as it’s called by insiders, is its opposite. It’s not a war game. It’s not a show of superior speed and cunning in comparison to a direct opponent. It developed over the last hundred years, and it’s obstensibly, on the surface, showbiz. Yet while showbiz may be in its origins, synchro is a celebration of extraordinary athletes proving that they can perform with skill and beauty in the water. It combines dance, gymnastics, choreography, originality, and artistry in order to tell a story. The competition, as it is, is seeing who can be more perfect in the water.”
THE LINCOLN JOURNAL STAR / A Mom for All Ages by Marcella Mercer
“Medicine for Arianna and Dontae alone tops out at $12,200 a month. The family’s medical needs are so massive and complex that Lynn’s Dakotamart Pharmacy in nearby Belle Fourche hired an additional full-time employee just to process their prescriptions. By age 3, it had cost about $3 million to keep Arianna alive.”
REPLY ALL / A Simple Question and Lost in a Cab by PJ Vogt and Alex Goldman (audio)
SACRAMENTO NEWS & REVIEW / Homeless—and In Hiding by Raheem F. Hosseini
“There are more than a dozen—mostly of Southeast Asian descent, dehydrated and dazed groggy by the sun—but this represents only a third of the people who called this field home and flew under the radar of Sacramento County’s lead homeless agency. Or at least they used to.”
OXFORD AMERICAN / Ride Along With the Cow Police by Matt Wolfe
“Cattle rustling, signature crime of the Old West, has returned to Texas.”
ARS TECHNICA / Finding North America’s Lost Medieval City by Annalee Newitz
“A thousand years ago, huge pyramids and earthen mounds stood where East St. Louis sprawls today in Southern Illinois. This majestic urban architecture towered over the swampy Mississippi River floodplains, blotting out the region's tiny villages. Beginning in the late 900s, word about the city spread throughout the southeast. Thousands of people visited for feasts and rituals, lured by the promise of a new kind of civilization.”
GQ / Inside the Church of Chili’s by Daniel Riley
“Like most chains, there’s plenty that’s cheesy about Chili’s Grill and Bar. But there is also something special—something that converts its most devoted employees into enthusiastic, unblinking evangelists. Their devotion to The Sizzle is pure, and these are their secrets.”
THE WASHINGTON POST / ‘What Kind of Childhood Is That’ by Eli Saslow
“After losing their parents to overdoses, three children confront America's opioid epidemic.”
THE GUARDIAN / McDonald’s: You Can Sneer, But It’s the Glue That Holds Communities Together by Chris Arnade
“When many lower-income Americans feel isolated and empty, they yearn for physical social networks. And all across the U.S., this happens organically at McDonald’s.”
WIRED / The Internet Really Has Changed Everything by Rex Sorgatz
“Napoleon would be trapped in the amber of time, in a big glass case, if not for one thing: access to information.”
CITY JOURNAL / Portrait of the Neighborhood as a Hipster Haven by Kay S. Hymowitz
“Williamsburg’s creative class has learned the ways of market competition, profits, distribution, business plans, customer satisfaction, and vertical markets, along with sustainability, organic materials, and community responsibility. The marriage between art, millennial politics, and old-fashioned capitalism will strike some as Marx’s worst fear come true. But even the haters would have to admit that it tastes and looks good.”
THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE / What Happened to Worcester? by Adam Davidson
“These two trapped, poor, broken people somehow met and managed to put all that pain behind and create a new life in what still felt like the fresh, quickly growing frontier of central Massachusetts. Bumpa, following a tip from a minister who had moved to Worcester, seems to have arrived in the city with an office job in hand, at the Heald Machine Company, where he worked until his retirement decades later. A combination of historical luck, a fast-growing economy, and his own hard work enabled him to carve out a good life that must have seemed unattainable when he was younger.”
THE WASHINGTON POST / ‘How’s Amanda?’ by Eli Saslow
“She had no job, no high school diploma, no car and no money beyond what her mother gave her for Mountain Dew and cigarettes. A few days earlier, a dentist had pulled all 28 of her teeth, which had decayed from years of neglect. It had been a week since she’d seen her 9-year-old twin sons, who lived in a nearby suburb with their father, and lately the most frequent text messages coming into her phone were from a dealer hoping to lure her back with free samples.”
COMMENTARY and NATIONAL REVIEW / Trump’s Terrifying Online Brigades and Why White-Nationalist Thugs Thrill to Trump by James Kirchick
“Though we all have reason to be annoyed by the resurgence of political correctness, the alt-right remedy is the oratorical inverse of the problem they claim to despise. Social-justice warriors needlessly shut down debate and proscribe words and ideas to assuage the feelings of allegedly vulnerable minority groups; the alt-right flings around racial epithets and Der Stürmer cartoons purely to transgress accepted social codes. And that’s only the most charitable explanation for their behavior, assuming as it does that they don’t ‘really’ mean what they say. But what about that element of the alt-right that actually does have a political agenda beyond annoying its adversaries?”
THE CUT / From Pickup Artist to Pariah by Rachel Monroe
“Jared Rutledge fancied himself a big man of the ‘manosphere.’ But when his online musings about 46 women were exposed, his whole town turned against him.”
THE WEEK / The columns of Michael Brendan Dougherty in aggregate, including America Is More Divided Than Ever. So Why Is Obama Optimistic?, Why Is America Backing Saudi Arabia’s Atrocious War in Yemen? Donald Trump’s Malicious Stupidity, How Hillary Clinton Could Blow It, Trump vs. Clinton Is a Verdict on America, How Donald Trump Watered Down the Very Idea of American Greatness, This Election Is God’s Judgment on Us, and The Limits of a Trump Presidency
THE NEW YORKER / The Most Exclusive Restaurant in America by Nick Paumgarten
“Damon Baehrel’s methods are a marvel, and his tables are all booked until 2025. Or are they?”
THE RINGER / The Burning Desire for Hot Chicken by Danny Chau
“Hot chicken was a dish created for the express purpose of bringing a man to his knees. Its origin myth wasn’t the result of a mistake, like chocolate chip cookies, Coca-Cola, or the French dip sandwich. Hot chicken was premeditated; to this day, every bite of Nashville hot chicken is touched by the spectral presence of a betrayed lover.”
TAMPA BAY TIMES / Farm to Fable by Laura Reiley
“What makes buying food different from other forms of commerce is this: It’s a trust-based system. How do you know the Dover sole on your plate is Dover sole? Only that the restaurateur said so. And how can you be sure the strawberries your toddler is gobbling are free of pesticides? Only because the vendor at the farmers market said so. Your purchases are unverifiable unless you drive to that farm or track back through a restaurant’s distributors and ask for invoices. I did.”
FOOD 52 / In Sickness, In Health, In White Castle by Allison Robicelli
“The children the doctors said you’d never bear came immediately. He didn’t drive, but occasionally he took three trains to White Castle to surprise you with a sack of ten. Sometimes you were so happy you’d cry. Sometimes you’d scream at him for not psychically knowing you were nauseous. You’re amazed that he never once—back then and in all the years that followed—stopped trying to make you happy.”
THE RINGER / Sriracha Is a Quintessentially American Flavor by Danny Chau
“David Tran’s exact sriracha recipe may not be available to the public, but with only six core ingredients (red jalapenos, garlic, distilled vinegar, sugar, salt, and xanthan gum), it’s as open source as any name-brand foodstuff. But no matter how good or bad an outside interpretation, the signifiers always lead you back to the source, to the first time you let the rooster into your life.”
LUCKY PEACH / Why New York Is Better Than San Francisco by Peter Meehan
“My best memories are experiences of texture more than flavor: crinkly, crumpled, shiny foil keeping a sandwich swaddled in steam-softened white paper piping hot; the kaiser roll crumbly, the fine cornmeal from its underside adding a pleasant grit to the assemblage; the bacon on the border of unbearably crisp but not too far gone; the egg, if eaten while magma-hot, still passably tender; squeezed-out packages of ketchup providing cool, sweet counterpoint.”
EATER / Maybe Just Don’t Drink Coffee by Matt Buchanan
“At this point you could, as more than half of all American adults do on a daily basis, drink a cup of coffee to stave off the fog of imminent unconsciousness. After all, you love coffee. And not just because of the caffeine. But have you really thought it all through?”
LIFE & THYME / Good Graces by Carolyn Phillips
“As my mother-in-law reaches out and refills my cup, I do not know whether I am more shocked by the senseless cruelties in her story or by the fact that she has just now actually served me tea.”
EATER / The People’s Cheeseburger by Willy Blackmore
“Locol’s messaging isn’t geared toward people who will not be its primary customers. Choi and Patterson don’t openly talk about conscious capitalism or triple-bottom lines. They’re mostly just leaning on the premise that serving neighborhoods like Watts, which often have a dearth of food options beyond corner stores and outposts of gigantic chains, is good business both ethically and fiscally, and likely to be profitable.”
GIMLET MEDIA / Milk Wanted by Phia Bennin (audio)
“A breast milk paradise, shady breastmilk scammers, and the surprising history of breast milk in the United States.”
ROADS & KINGDOMS / A Last Dinner in the Jungle by Shane Mitchell
“Here, atop a toxic landfill, mired in mud and muck, in a makeshift kitchen lacking running water or refrigeration, was a bird to sing about. A spicy paste clung to pieces of meat, juicy without being greasy. What do you crave when you can’t go home again? Or worse, fear being sent back? Perhaps this drumstick, DayGlo red with spices.”
THE WEEKLY STANDARD / The Migrants of Calais by Christopher Caldwell
“We are using antiquated categories that make the most explosive social problems of our time wholly invisible to us. The geographical segregation into globalized and unglobalized areas has created a sort of epistemological trap. From the age of social democracy, when class was measured by one dimension, income, we have inherited the habit of assuming political issues will pit ‘the rich’ against ‘the poor.’ But today's issues don't. The dividing line on most issues is whether people are being helped or hurt by the global economy.”
GARDEN AND GUN / The Columns Hotel by Rick Bragg
“It was as if someone had taken so much of what is lovely and unique about this place and just hung it on the thick, wet air, to be admired. It was just a moment, fine in itself.”
HAZLITT / Hunger Makes Me by Jess Zimmerman
“A man’s appetite can be hearty, but a woman with an appetite—for food, for sex, for simple attention—is always voracious: she always overreaches, because it is not supposed to exist.”
VIRGINIA QUARTERLY REVIEW / Cost of Living by Emily Maloney
“At some point I started billing differently. I can’t say when. It could have been when we had a patient die and I had to bill his family. It could have been when I saw the dizzying costs that were itemized for inpatient bills, or the time the woman I evaluated—my patient, our patient—and then billed was saddled with an amount she could never hope to pay. I remember her: how she came in and explained that things were difficult, that she didn’t have insurance, but she needed someone to lance the boil that had erupted at her waistline. It had been causing her incredible pain, to the point where she could no longer dress herself. Please, she said. But she had already been registered, been given an ID bracelet, all the apparatuses of the emergency department and its tracking. Her bill popped up later on my screen; I saw the amount. This, somehow, totaled the cost of living. I thought of my own unpaid medical debt, reduced the amount, told no one, and let the next chart flash across my screen.”
n+1 / Every Body Goes Haywire by Anna Altman
“It’s inconceivable to most people that this is it—there is no other, underlying condition. The headaches are the condition itself.”
ELLE / My Destructive Dependency on Migraine Drugs by Dana Goldstein
“For a period of several years that ended only six months ago, I had a migraine, of varying degrees of intensity, essentially 100 percent of the time that I was awake.”
THE GUARDIAN / Dance Lessons for Writers by Zadie Smith
“On YouTube you will find them, locked in many dance-offs, and so you are presented with a stark choice. But it’s not a question of degrees of ability, of who was the greater dancer. The choice is between two completely opposite values: legibility on the one hand, temporality on the other. Between a monument (Jackson) and a kind of mirage (Prince).”
LIT HUB / Walking While Black by Garnette Cadogan
“The sidewalk was a minefield, and every hesitation and self-censored compensation reduced my dignity. Despite my best efforts, the streets never felt comfortably safe.”
FACEBOOK / What It’s Like to Be Black in Naperville by Brian Crooks
“Please, bear with me for a few minutes. Hopefully, it'll help you understand why I feel the way I do about what's been going on.”
NATIONAL AFFAIRS / Renewing the University by Alan Jacobs
“When students demand the intervention of administrative authority to solve every little conflict, they end reinforce a power structure in which students and faculty alike are stripped of moral agency, in which all of us in the university—including the administrators themselves—become instruments in the hands of a self-perpetuating bureaucratic regime. Few social structures could be more alien to the character of true education.”
FILM COMMENT / The Great Recession by Shonni Enelow
“While cooler styles have always been with us, from Greta Garbo and Cary Grant to Steve McQueen and Charlotte Rampling, those actors communicate that they are above or outside of emotion, either aristocratically detached or winningly unflappable. In contrast, the thread of resistance to and evasion of spectacular emotionality among many in today’s new generation of stars doesn’t evoke emotional detachment or indifference but rather a tortured mistrust of expression itself—one that, in its understated way, clearly forms its own kind of emotional appeal to the audience at the same time as it dramatizes why the actor must resist making one.”
REAL LIFE / Auto Format by Navneet Alang
“Twitter has colonized my mind. Almost every day for just under a decade, I have checked the site, have tweeted, retweeted, been subtweeted. My mental map is the frontier surrendered, and Twitter is the empire. To become occupied by a social network is to internalize its gaze. It is to forever carry a doubled view of both your own mind and the platform’s.”
BRIGHT WALL / DARK ROOM / The Grace of Keanu Reeves by Angelica Jade Bastién
“Keanu, of course, isn’t the first star to exist at the crossroads of virile and vulnerable. Actors like James Dean, Montgomery Clift, and Paul Newman embody a similar alchemy that have drawn women (and men) to them. But these actors often seem to fight against the lustful gaze of the camera, while Keanu supplants himself to it. Where they seem cynical, disinterested, or too wounded as a romantic lead, Keanu is utterly open.”
THE AMERICAN SCHOLAR / Saving the Self in the Age of the Selfie by James McWilliams
“Daily life offers endless opportunities to cultivate character-building behaviors that, once they become habitual, can nurture our weapons of resistance rather than exchange them for the conveniences of the Internet. Four of these habits stand out as essential to the preservation of an anchored identity: spending time alone, engaging in meaningful conversations, forming friendships, and pursuing an activity within a community. Imagine, if you can, an identity that’s permitted to develop with minimal interference from digital culture and you’ll begin to grasp the benefits that these four kinds of stresses can have on a self hoping to develop a healthier relationship with digitized life.”
THE WEEKLY STANDARD / Love Me Do by Andrew Ferguson
“A bit past the midpoint of the last century, roughly from early 1967 to late 1969, a sizable number of human beings believed that Paul McCartney was the coolest man who ever lived. Compared with your average world-historical claim, this one was not unreasonable.”
PRISON UK / Preparing for Prison by Alex Cavendish
“Never underestimate that cold click of steel as your wrist is cuffed, chaining you to another human being who now has control over you. Most newly convicted prisoners are so shocked at the experience that they become compliant. I know I did.”
GARDEN AND GUN / Dog Days of Youth by Douglas Cutting
“At daybreak, about the moment when ducks move before legal light, I snapped off the couch from a bad dream and looked around. Total silence. I scrambled to the porch door. Saw Gauge Man on his bed, sound asleep. Stared. Looked around again, buzzing with exhaustion and delirium. Looked back at my dog—slick pawed and skinned up around his nose and chin—and realized it was real. He’d run a long way back from somewhere, and he was home, and so I piled onto the old dog bed with him and buried my face in his fur and suddenly recognized all the spaces he filled.”
AEON / Nadia’s Story by Ana Todorović
“We could get into an ambulance and go to Southampton, where I would have a caesarean and Nadia would be put on a machine for some time, ‘to give her heart a rest’. Then she would be treated with drugs, and she would have to stay in hospital. Perhaps for six months, perhaps for a year. She might not survive the birth, or the machine, or the medication, but if she did, there would be some chance of a full recovery. And some chance of a partial recovery, a life with a debilitating heart disease, or disability, or both. The alternative path would be to ‘put her to sleep’ with a needle to the heart, after which her birth would be induced and it would all be over.”
THIS AMERICAN LIFE / Will I Know Anyone at This Party? (audio)
“Right now lots of Republicans feel like they don’t recognize their own party. Like a Minnesota congressman who’s confused when the residents in his district, people he’s known for years, start calling for a ban on Muslims moving to their town.”
THIS AMERICAN LIFE / Who’s Really on Line One? by Zoe Chace (audio)
A radio producer “goes to Greenville, South Carolina to talk with Tony Beam – host of the radio show Christian Worldview Today. Tony and his listeners are evangelical Christians, and usually, Tony backs a candidate for office and his listeners tend to agree with him. But this election season, things are playing out very differently.”
MOTHER JONES / I Spent 5 Years With Some of Trump’s Biggest Fans. Here’s What They Won’t Tell You by Arlie Russell Hochschild
“The deep story of the right goes like this: You are patiently standing in the middle of a long line stretching toward the horizon, where the American Dream awaits. But as you wait, you see people cutting in line ahead of you. Many of these line-cutters are black—beneficiaries of affirmative action or welfare. Some are career-driven women pushing into jobs they never had before. Then you see immigrants, Mexicans, Somalis, the Syrian refugees yet to come. As you wait in this unmoving line, you’re being asked to feel sorry for them all. You have a good heart. But who is deciding who you should feel compassion for? Then you see President Barack Hussein Obama waving the line-cutters forward. He’s on their side.”
OXFORD AMERICAN / The Last Florida Indians Will Now Die by Justin Nobel
“As a child, I learned of certain native tribes and their respective homelands—the Cherokee in the South, the Navajo in the Southwest, the Iroquois in New York State. What I wasn’t taught is that these tribes exist because they were defeated, and in defeat they signed treaties with the U.S. government. As awful as their lot was, these treaty tribes are now recognized by the federal government, meaning at least some money is available for healthcare, housing, and schools. These tribes also have the right to operate casinos. Perhaps most significantly, they have the legal right to exist, a spot in the record. They will be remembered, if only because some bureaucrat has made a mark in a list.”
THIS AMERICAN LIFE / Tell Me I’m Fat and Once More, With Feeling (audio)
Stories on a theme.
THE WASHINGTON POST /  The White Flight of Derek Black by Eli Saslow
“His father, Don Black, had created Stormfront, the Internet’s first and largest white nationalist site, with 300,000 users and counting. His mother, Chloe, had once been married to David Duke, one of the country’s most infamous racial zealots, and Duke had become Derek’s godfather. They had raised Derek at the forefront of the movement, and some white nationalists had begun calling him ‘the heir.’”
THE NEW YORKER / White Plight? by Hua Hsu
“In working-class America, an élite-resenting identity politics has emerged in which whiteness spells dispossession.”
THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE / Choosing a School for My Daughter in a Segregated City by Nikole Hannah-Jones
“I’d be lying if I said I didn’t feel pulled in the way other parents with options feel pulled. I had moments when I couldn’t ignore the nagging fear that in my quest for fairness, I was being unfair to my own daughter. I worried—I worry still—about whether I made the right decision for our little girl. But I knew that I made the just one.”
GQ / My Son, The Prince of Fashion by Michael Chabon
“I took my son to Paris Fashion Week, and all I got was a profound understanding of who he is, what he wants to do with his life, and how it feels to watch a grown man stride down a runway wearing shaggy yellow Muppet pants.”
1843 / Eton and the Making of a Modern Elite by Christopher de Bellaigue
“The world’s most famous school aspires to become an agent of social change; but, as old boy Christopher de Bellaigue learns when he goes back, it is also an increasingly effective way for the global elite to give its offspring an expensive leg up in life.”
AEON / Gender Is Not a Spectrum by Rebecca Reilly-Cooper
“Nobody, and certainly no radical feminist, wants to stop anyone from defining themselves in ways that make sense to them. So if you want to call yourself a genderqueer femme presenting demigirl, you go for it. Express that identity however you like. A problem emerges only when you start making political claims on the basis of that label, demanding that others call themselves cisgender, because you require there to be a bunch of conventional binary cis people for you to define yourself against.”
BUZZFEED / To Love Your Sister Is to Grieve Your Twin by Tomi Obaro
“She is my best friend, but that phrase doesn’t quite do the relationship justice. Our kinship is so binding that there are memories I have of us where I’m not sure if I was actually there or if she was there and I’m just hijacking the recollection. Growing apart, or becoming sisters and not twins, was mostly horrifying, but sometimes it’s a relief. It means my worst fear, her death, can’t devastate me as much as it once could.”
THE PLAYERS’ TRIBUNE / A Guy Like Me by John Scott
“People think enforcers skate out there for two minutes a night, take a few pops and call it a night. What a life, right? But I’ll be honest. You can never shut it off. It’s a 24/7 job. When you know a fight is coming up, you can never shut off your brain. You can be the toughest guy in the NHL, and there’s still that fear. I’d stay up all night on HockeyFights.com and YouTube, researching the tendencies of the next enforcer on the schedule.”
ESPN / The Art of Letting Go by Mina Kimes
“MLB's code is clear: Flip your bat and you'll pay. But in South Korea, flips are an art. How does this alternate world exist? And what does it say about us?”
ELLE / The Afterlife of a Ballerina by Alice Robb
“At age 16, Alexandra Ansanelli was anointed a prodigy. By 22, she was a principal for the New York City Ballet. At 26, she was a principal for the Royal Ballet. By 28, she had given it all up.”
OXFORD AMERICAN / Blood Ties by Alex Mar
“A self-mythologizing takes place when we assimilate the stories of our ancestors into our own—it’s automatic. We tell ourselves that their triumphs have somehow entered our bloodstream.”
SPIEGEL / A Visit to Ground Zero of Refugee Anxiety by Takis Würger
“Clausnitz became shorthand for the xenophobic side of Germany after residents threatened a bus full of refugees. We spent a month in the town to find out what happened.”
THE BUCKLEY CLUB / My Open Letter to Conservatives by Conservative Black Man
“Conservatives need to try to understand why black people feel the way we feel about some of these things. Would it hurt for you to show compassion for a mother who has lost her son to a derelict police officer, rather than pointing out the black on black crime statistics in Chicago? Why is the first reaction to the mentioning of the KKK a pivot to the Black Panthers as if the Black Panthers were ever at the top of that figurative mountain? Have you ever tried to understand what most black people feel when they see the Confederate flag? Have you taken the time to ask any?”
RAND / Assessing the Implications of Allowing Transgender Personnel to Serve Openly
This lengthy report is more dry than everything else recommended here, but is noteworthy as the most careful, logical, informative, fact-based approach I’ve seen on this subject. If you want the research brief instead, it’s here. A short, polished essay is here.
LAPHAM’S QUARTERLY / The Anomaly of Barbarism by John Gray
“While much remains unknown, there is nothing mysterious in the rise of ISIS. It is baffling only for those who believe—despite everything that occurred in the twentieth century—that modernization and civilization are advancing hand in hand. In fact, now as in the past some of the most modern movements are among the most barbaric. But to admit this would mean surrendering the ruling political faith, a decayed form of liberalism without which Western leaders and opinion formers would be disoriented and lost. To accept that liberal societies may not be ‘on the right side of history’ would leave their lives drained of significance, while a stoical response—which is ready to fight while being doubtful of ultimate victory—seems to be beyond their powers. With mounting bewilderment and desperation, they cling to the faith that the normal course of history has somehow been temporarily derailed.”
STANDPOINT MAGAZINE / Islam and the French Republic: From the Banlieues to Le Pen Land by Ben Judah
“A Jew can’t live where he wants anymore. Bit by bit, everyone is moving from the banlieues. As soon as there are ethnic populations, and as soon as it gets, shall we say, problematic, the Jews move. The visible ones — they get constantly attacked.”
THE GUARDIAN / My Night Out in Cleveland With the Worst Men on the Internet by Laurie Penny
“The most widely accepted definition of a troll is a provocateur—someone who says outrageous, extreme or abusive things to elicit a reaction. For them, the reaction itself is the win. The key distinction is between the attention-hustlers—the pure troll howlers who play this grotesque game for its own sake and their own—and the true believers.”
CRACKED / How Half of America Lost Its Fucking Mind by David Wong
“Basic, obvious truths that have gone unquestioned for thousands of years now get laughed at and shouted down. … The foundation upon which America was undeniably built—family, faith, and hard work—had been deemed unfashionable and small-minded. Those snooty elites up in their ivory tower laughed as they kicked away that foundation, and then wrote 10,000-word thinkpieces blaming the builders for the ensuing collapse.”
SLATE STAR CODEX / Book Review: Albion’s Seed by Scott Alexander

THE GUARDIAN / Inside the Fight to Reveal the CIA’s Torture Secrets by Spencer Ackerman
“The Panetta Review saga would spur a furious CIA to take an extraordinary step: it would spy on its own legislative overseers—especially Jones. The episode would spill out publicly the following March, when top committee Democrat Dianne Feinstein, who had already taken a huge political risk in pushing the torture inquiry, accused the CIA on the Senate floor of triggering what she called a constitutional crisis. Both sides requested the justice department pursue a criminal investigation on the other. The bitterness would nearly overshadow a landmark report, a fraction of which was released to the public in December 2014, that documented in chilling detail the depravations CIA inflicted on terrorism suspects after 9/11.”
COSMOPOLITAN / Why Did It Take 9 Hours and 3 Emergency Rooms For This Woman to Get a Rape Kit? By Jillian Keenan
“The complicated, infuriating, little-known reasons why women can be denied emergency care after a sexual assault.”
ROADS & KINGDOMS / The Dog Thief Killings by Calvin Godfrey
“The dog would serve as the centerpiece of a big party attended by former colleagues and war buddies. His wife would spend the better part of a day cooking it up, organs and all; his job was to make sure they got a good one, properly prepared.”
MEDIUM / Chronicles of a Concerned Citizen by Aglaia Berlutti
“A reflection on the wave of lynchings in Venezuela.”
THE INTERCEPT / Operation Smoke and Mirrors by Jamie Kalven  
“Two Chicago police officers uncovered a massive criminal enterprise within the department.”
MOTHER JONES /  My Four Months as a Private Prison Guard by Shane Bauer
“Inmates are glued up against the TV room window, watching a young white cadet named Miss Stirling pick through their stuff. She’s pretty and petite, with long, jet-black hair. The attention makes her uncomfortable; she thinks the inmates are gross. Earlier this week, she said she would refuse to give an inmate CPR and won’t try the cafeteria food because she doesn’t want to ‘eat AIDS.’ The more she is around prisoners, though, the more I notice her grapple with an inner conflict. ‘I don’t want to treat everyone like a criminal because I’ve done things myself,’ she says.”
BUZZFEED / The Court That Rules the World by Chris Hamby
“A parallel legal universe, open only to corporations and largely invisible to everyone else, helps executives convicted of crimes escape punishment.”
REASON / The Truth About the Biggest U.S. Sex Trafficking Story of the Year by Elizabeth Nolan Brown
“The reality—as evidenced by police reports, court documents, online records, and statements from those involved—is far less lurid and depraved. Instead of a story of stark abuse and exploitation, it's a story of immigration, economics, the pull of companionship and connection, the structures and dynamism that drive black markets, and a criminal-justice system all too eager to declare women victims of the choices they make.”
THE NEW YORK TIMES / The Fighter by C.J. Chivers
“The Marine Corps taught Sam Siatta how to shoot. The war in Afghanistan
taught him how to kill. Nobody taught him how to come home.”
DIGG / Broken by Kevin Heldman
“When we talk about hoods and bad neighborhoods, crime zones and ghetto areas in NYC and you then compare them to East New York, all those areas that fit those definitions are nothing like East New York. East New York is sicker, sadder, more dysfunctional, more isolated, harsher, frailer, madder, toxic, broken through and through everywhere.”
PRO PUBLICA and NEW YORK DAILY NEWS / The NYPD IS Kicking People Out of Their Homes, Even If They Haven’t Committed a Crime by Sarah Ryley
“The NYPD Is kicking people out of their homes, even if they haven’t committed a crime. The nuisance abatement law was created in the 1970’s to combat the sex industry in Times Square. Since then, its use has been vastly expanded, commonly targeting apartments and mom-and-pop bodegas even as the city’s crime rate has reached historic lows.”
ESPN / The Hardest Choice Demaryius Thomas’s Mom Will Make by Eli Saslow
“She spent 15 years cut off from America in a 20-by-20-foot concrete cell, and now she has an invitation to the biggest American spectacle of all.”
REASON / Confessions of an Ex-Prosecutor by Ken White
“The day O.J. Simpson was acquitted, I began my career as a federal prosecutor. I was 26—a young 26 at that—on the cusp of extraordinary power over the lives of my fellow citizens. After years of internships with federal and state prosecutors, I knew to expect camaraderie and sense of mission. I didn't expect it to influence how I thought about constitutional rights. But it did.”
SPIKED / The Tyranny of Transparency by Tim Black
“This isn’t a legal problem. It can’t be corrected by frantic invocations of Article 8 of the Human Rights Act. No assertion that ‘Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence’ can magically restore substance to the idea of privacy. That’s because the idea of privacy has not been legally debased; rather, it’s been culturally and politically undermined.”
THIS AMERICAN LIFE, PRO PUBLICA, and THE MARSHALL PROJECT / Anatomy of Doubt by Robyn Semien and An Unbelievable Story of Rape by T. Christian Miller and Ken Armstrong (the print version appeared at the very end of 2015)
“If she met certain conditions for the next year, the charge would be dropped. She would need to get mental health counseling for her lying. She would need to go on supervised probation. She would need to keep straight, breaking no more laws. And she would have to pay $500 to cover the court’s costs.Marie wanted this behind her. She took the deal.”
THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE / The Secrets of the Wave Pilots by Kim Tingley
“For thousands of years, sailors in the Marshall Islands have navigated vast distances of open ocean without instruments. Can science explain their method before it’s lost forever?”
PHILOSOPHY NOW / A Golden Manifesto by Mary Midgley
What a bygone moment of female ascendance in philosophy can teach us about the pursuit of truth.
HARPER’S / What Came Before the Big Bang? by Alan Lightman
“Physicists hope that within the next fifty years or so, string theory or other new theoretical work will provide a good understanding of quantum gravity, including an explanation of how the universe began.”
THE GUARDIAN / Artificial Intelligence: ‘We’re Like Children Playing With a Bomb’ by Tim Adams
“If you look at all the things the world is spending money on, what we are doing is less than a pittance. You go to some random city and you travel from the airport to your hotel. Along the highway you see all these huge buildings for companies you have never heard of. Maybe they are designing a new publicity campaign for a razor blade. You drive past hundreds of these buildings. Any one of those has more resources than the total that humanity is spending on this field. We have half a floor of one building in Oxford, and there are two or three other groups doing what we do. So I think it is OK.”
AEON / The Empty Brain by Robert Epstein
“We don’t store words or the rules that tell us how to manipulate them. We don’t create representations of visual stimuli, store them in a short-term memory buffer, and then transfer the representation into a long-term memory device. We don’t retrieve information or images or words from memory registers. Computers do all of these things, but organisms do not.”
AUDUBON MAGAZINE / Can the Ivory-Billed Woodpecker Be Found in Cuba? by Mac McClelland
“Earlier, the photographer sidled next to the writer and asked, as they both turned their faces away from the merciless beating of the oxen, a patch of protected Cuban forest being deforested with the tearing down of ever-larger branches and trees with which to assault them, ‘Do you ever wonder if this is all worth it? For a bird?’ The two of them snickered darkly. Just moments before, a chunk of wood had cracked off an oxen-beating club as it broke over the animal’s hide and shot past the photographer’s head, missing him by maybe an inch. ‘One that almost definitely doesn’t exist?’”
THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE / The Amateur Cloud Society That (Sort of) Rattled the Scientific Community by Jon Mooallem
“To keep it all from feeling ephemeral or imaginary, he eventually decided that membership should cost $15 and that members would receive a badge and certificate in the mail. He recognized that joining an online Cloud Appreciation Society that only nominally existed might appear ridiculous, but it was important to him that it not feel meaningless.”
THE INTERCEPT / The Dark Side of VR by Janus Kopfstein
“The data that virtually reality headsets can collect will give corporations and governments unprecedented insight and power over our emotions and physical behavior.”
LONGREADS / STAT: My Daughter’s MS Diagnosis and the Question My Doctors Couldn’t Answer by Maria Bustillos
“Is there a dietary treatment for multiple sclerosis? And if so, why is the medical establishment ignoring published academic research that started in the 1950s proving it?”
LOVE + RADIO / Doing the No No by Britt Wray
“Adam Zaretsky is a bioartist who explores the manipulation of DNA, the fringes of genetic modification, and butts up against the ethical boundaries of science and beyond.”
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK / How to Hack an Election by Jordan Robertson, Michael Riley, and Andrew Willis
“Andrés Sepúlveda rigged elections throughout Latin America for almost a decade.”
NAUTILUS / How Necking Shaped the Giraffe by David P. Barash
“As notably long as are giraffe necks, these are actually outclassed by their legs, such that those monumental necks are—believe it or not—too short to comfortably reach a puddle; as a result, a drinking giraffe must splay its front feet wide apart. And, by the way, the same fluid sluice-way control mechanism in its lengthy neck works in reverse when a giraffe is done drinking and eventually raises its high head, allowing only a relative trickle of blood to flow back down so that its brain doesn’t suddenly become hypoxic.”
THE TEXAS TRIBUNE and PRO PUBLICA / Hell and High Water by Neena Satija, Kiah Collier, Al Shaw, and Jeff Larson
“Houston is the fourth-largest city in the country. It’s home to the nation’s largest refining and petrochemical complex, where billions of gallons of oil and dangerous chemicals are stored. And it’s a sitting duck for the next big hurricane. Why isn’t Texas ready?”
WIRED /A Swarm of Controversy by Hannah Nordhaus
“In their struggle for survival against killer mites, bees get an unlikely ally.”
NEW YORK / I Used to Be a Human Being by Andrew Sullivan
“Observe yourself in line for coffee, or driving, or even just going to the bathroom. Visit an airport and see the sea of craned necks and the dead eyes. We have gone from looking up and around to constantly looking down. If an alien had visited just five years ago, then returned today, wouldn’t this be its immediate observation? That this species has developed an extraordinary new habit—and, everywhere you look, lives constantly in its thrall?”
THE BOSTON GLOBE / Where Did ISIS Come From? The Story Starts Here. by Neil Swidey
“An attempt to pinpoint the moment when the American occupation of Iraq failed so catastrophically that it birthed a juggernaut in global terrorism. Paul Bremer is interviewed.”
RADIOLAB / From Tree to Shining Tree
“A forest can feel like a place of great stillness and quiet. But if you dig a little deeper, there’s a hidden world beneath your feet as busy and complicated as a city at rush hour.”
IDLE WORDS / Shuffleboard at McMurdo by Maciej Cegłowski
“The whole thing is like one of those Russian fairy tales, where the hero must cross seven seas and seven mountains, slay Koshchei the Deathless, find the giant oak, exhume an iron chest, open it to find a hare, cut the hare open to find a duck, dig through the duck to find an egg, and crack the egg open to reveal an enchanted golden needle, or in this case, Zippo lighter.”
Honorable mention to writer R. Scott Moxley and editor Gustavo Arellano for OC Weekly’s dogged coverage of misconduct in the Orange County, California, law enforcement community; and to National Review for standing on principles its more populist competitors lacked with its Against Trump issue and related commentary by David French, Kevin Williamson, Charles C.W. Cooke, Jonah Goldberg, and others.


In 1945 in Turin, a solo exhibit of paintings by a young Italian artist was shut down. The works on display were propulsive with energy and psychologically driven: They depicted naked, often flower-crowned, women wagging their red tongues; defecating; copulating with snakes (or, perhaps deploying them as makeshift penises); and confined in psychiatric wards, wearing heels and nothing else. The delicate watercolors, tinged with pinks, greens, and crimsons, were interpretable as subtle stabs at Fascism and at societal responses to “deviant” female behavior. The police closed down the exhibit on opening day.
These paintings were the work of Carol Rama—and many of them no longer exist, either lost or destroyed. The incident of censorship is a footnote of art history but nonetheless marks an important moment for Rama’s career and, by extension, for artists like Cindy Sherman and Kiki Smith who would later be inspired by her. The shut-down would guide Rama’s aesthetic choices—she stopped making figurative pieces for years after, though hints of the human form remained in her abstractions—and would cement her reputation as an artist intensely interested in women as sexual beings, as medical curiosities, and as social symbols.
Anicka Yi’s Strangely Persuasive World of Smells
Rama—who died in 2015 at the age of 97—is getting some much-deserved recognition at the New Museum in New York City, with the most comprehensive exhibit of her work to date in the United States. (Other retrospectives have been staged recently in Venice and Barcelona.) Carol Rama: Antibodies represents an almost dizzying array of ideas, materials, and predilections across the artist’s six decades producing art: She used teeth, claws, burlap, and rubber; attached plastic eyeballs and syringes to canvases; and made paintings of disembodied breasts and testicles. She once crafted a bronze sculpture of a penis nestled inside a lady’s pump—in one fell swoop eliding the superficial distance between two trickily symbiotic symbols and poking some fun at Freud along the way. In all these works, Rama used womanhood as a lens for investigating anything from cultural norms and desire to illness and hysteria.
Of those themes, Rama’s interest in the interplay between health and society seems most enduring and deeply held. Italian asylums would be reformed in the ’60s and ’70s, but at the time that Rama was growing up, they were still clearinghouses for abuse, and for institutional perspectives that punished mental illness. Yet Rama, whose mother was committed to a psychiatric clinic when the artist was a child, saw it as a place of great vibrancy and liberty: Human bodies, to her eyes, assumed all manner of shapes and positions, seemingly with abandon. Or, as she would later say, “Madness is close to everybody.”
The tension between freedom and constraint that the young Rama observed is evident elsewhere in the show, too: On a platform in the middle of one room are a couple of Rama’s “wedding dress” pieces: The garments—black sweater dresses with plush, red organs embroidered onto the chest—simultaneously flout marriage tradition and acknowledge the strange importance of costumes. In another work, a shiny row of human teeth gets repurposed as the spine of a beast perched on a man’s head: an animalistic portrait of the human psyche, joyfully unleashed yet inextricably linked to its corporeal host.
Those works, and many others, show Rama’s media-agnostic and voraciously curious approach to longstanding questions. If her watercolors of the ’40s provoke the most visceral and intimate response, Rama found a subtler sort of expression in the abstract pieces she pursued in the ’50s as she briefly joined up with the Concrete art movement and in the bricolage works of the ’60s that saw her create darkly emotive canvases affixed with animal claws and bits of fur—by turns abstruse and entirely tactile.
Rama’s rubber-based pieces—the gomme works of the ’70s—were in some ways even more subtle and count among her more intellectually interesting explorations. For these austere-looking but thematically complex works, Rama took inspiration from her father’s bike-tire factory, disassembling and flattening bicycle inner tubes to create mixed-media collages. While not figurative, many of these pieces bring to mind organs and veins. Occasionally, Rama molded the rubber, reminiscent of skin or casing, into anthropomorphic curves; at other times, she let the uncut circular tubes hang three-dimensionally from her canvases like protuberant bouquets.
The most stunning of the rubber works are those in her later mucca pazza series, Rama’s artistic response to the cultural fervor elicited by reports of mad cow disease. Intrigued by society’s need to turn the cows into both dangerous pariahs and mystical figures worthy of attention, she made a handful of simple compositions: She cut flesh-hued rubber into shapes reminiscent of udders, breasts, and testicles and placed them in a variety of positions on painted canvases. The symbolism is clear: The paintings, which she saw as “extraordinary self-portraits,” recall the longstanding social and literary archetype of the “mad” woman and embrace the fickle, politicized language of sickness. The series seemed particularly personal for Rama, who once referred to herself as a “premeditated lunatic” who painted “first and foremost to cure myself.”
Rama isn’t the only female artist of her generation to be awarded belated recognition in recent years. Her Italian compatriot Marisa Merz, who was part of the Arte Povera movement, as well as the Cuban geometric-abstractionist painter Carmen Herrera, have also received major retrospectives in the U.S. in the past two years, triggering familiar debates about delayed art-world celebrations of prodigious female talents. Similar conversations occurred in relation to the French sculptor Louise Bourgeois, who didn’t receive her first retrospective until she was in her 70s. For Rama, those early so-called “psychosexual” paintings and her difficult family circumstances—a mom who struggled with mental health, a father who killed himself—mean protofeminist and autobiographical frames have often been imposed on her work. (It seems no coincidence that broader appreciation initially came in 1980, with a reshowing of those original, censored watercolors.)
The artist herself appears to have had little patience for the industry’s late recognition; if few others acknowledged her decades of work, she herself did. Her studio in Turin, where she lived for most of her life, was meticulously arranged with collected objects and works, a suggestion that she cared about self-presentation and, perhaps, about preserving her own oeuvre. When she won the Golden Lion for Lifetime Achievement at the Venice Biennale in 2003, Rama apparently posed the question, with some irritation: Why had it taken so long? She seemed to understand something that the Turin police of the ’40s did not: that, censored or not, her works would have a long and illuminating shelf-life.


The Search for Aaron Rodgers
Mina Kimes | ESPN 
“Rodgers, 33, isn’t studiously bland, like many of his elite brethren, and he isn't evasive either. He’s just ... cautious. Wary of being misunderstood or revealing too much. Over the years, as his celebrity exploded, he closed certain windows, sequestering his private life while he charmed the public with his dry wit and quirky hobbies. (He does crosswords! He likes Wes Anderson films!) He showed us everything and nothing at all. And for a while, that was enough.”
When Gossip Girl Ruled the World
Josh Duboff | Vanity Fair
“If every generation has its one or two shows that prove defining, that essentially everyone seemed to watch as if there were no other choice in the matter, Gossip Girl—which is celebrating the 10th anniversary of its premiere this September—would be that show for anyone who was a teenager or twentysomething (or, in many cases, older than that!) when it first aired.”
Gal Gadot and Stranger Things: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
Elaine Welteroth, Teen Vogue’s Refashionista 
Jazmine Hughes | The New York Times Magazine
“One tenet of the magazine under Welteroth is that a person can be interested in fashion and politics. She already knew how to make a fashion-and-beauty magazine appealing to her readers—and the advertisers who wanted to be inside. But could Elaine Welteroth really lead the #Resistance and make a glossy magazine at the same time?”
The Poetic Work of Trailer Recutters
Patton Oswalt | The New Yorker
“The Trailer Recutters ... have discovered cinematic transcendence through sheer practicality and commerce. These people are very clear about their aim of finding work in the industry—the videos they make are calling cards, audition reels. But in this prosaic pursuit they sometimes kick loose aesthetic revelation. The film whose guts they’re rearranging yields a sleeker, differently breathing animal.”
Mystery Solved: Why Literature’s Greatest Detectives Are All Obsessed With Food
Mackensie Griffin | Eater
“They were not just detectives, but detective gourmands: a detective of stunning intellect who obsesses over food, knows his tastes, and does not compromise them for any reason. … Each of these prolific authors used food—and the access their characters had to it—to illustrate their characters’ high status in society, secured by wealth as well as knowledge.”
Off With Her Head
Yashar Ali | The Cut
“[Kathy] Griffin, who made her career by mocking celebrities, is not the most likely comedian to be martyred over the inalienable right to criticize the president. But in the past couple of years, her act has become more and more political. … In the course of our talks, the theme she returned to most forcefully was the right to provoke with humor.”
Can the Onslaught of TV Reboots and Revivals Survive in 2017?
Rebecca Nicholson | The Guardian
“The most talked-about TV revivals all had a huge impact on culture, but crucially, those impacts were of their moment. … The danger is that if the show changes too much, people will miss its familiarity and its legacy may suffer—but in order to remain relevant, it must adapt to its current context. This is a delicate balance to find.”
Taylor Swift’s ‘Look What You Made Me Do’ Is the First Pure Piece of Trump-Era Pop Art
Mark Harris | Vulture
“If nothing else, ‘Look What You Made Me Do’ finds a new way to commercialize self-exoneration. It’s perfect for a world in which our chief executive’s chief subject of fascination is his own size, his reach, and the way in which he is received. If he ever puts out a record, it will surely be called, like hers, Reputation.”


Don’t Miss
Bran Stark and the Problem of Omniscience—Spencer Kornhaber notices that the Game of Thrones character joins a long line of fictional oracles who are inscrutable, all-knowing, and troublesome to the narrative.
The Business of Creativity
The Podcast Made From Inside Prison—Galen Beebe tells the story of Ear Hustle, an audio series that seeks to highlight the everyday experiences of inmates at San Quentin.
Why Aren’t There More Women Working in Audio?—Joy Lanzendorfer writes that although music production and sound engineering are fields dominated by men, that’s very slowly changing.
What Lena Waithe Wants From Hollywood—Adrienne Green talks to the Emmy-nominated actress and writer about what’s next on Master of None, creating her own show, and forcing the industry to pay attention to new black talent.
Film
Will Hollywood Learn a Lesson About Whitewashing?—David Sims poses the question after the actor Ed Skrein stepped down from playing a character in the Hellboy reboot who was originally written as Asian American.
The Long, Strange Trip of Tulip Fever to Theaters—David Sims notes that the film, based on a Tom Stoppard script and an acclaimed novel, is finally being released after three bizarre years of languishing in post-production.
TV
What Did Game of Thrones Accomplish This Year?—David Sims, Lenika Cruz, and Megan Garver discuss “The Dragon and the Wolf,” the Season 7 finale.
Game of Thrones: About That Hookup—Megan Garber argues that incest in the show is a metaphor for insularity, myopia, and people’s unwillingness to see beyond themselves.
Why Netflix Is Releasing So Many New Shows in 2018?—David Sims observes that the company is ignoring warnings about “Peak TV.”
The Great British Bake Off Keeps the Dream Alive—Sophie Gilbert watches the beloved contest, which returned with new stars but the same ethos after a much-lamented shake-up.
Music
The MTV VMAs Tackle Charlottesville and Suicide—Spencer Kornhaber says the surprising highlights of the ceremony broke out of pop music’s echo chamber.
LCD Soundsystem’s Oddly Inspiring Flip-Flop—Spencer Kornhaber listens to the band’s slow-burning American Dream, which testifies to the power of choosing to start again.
Sports
When McGregor Faced Mayweather—James Parker thinks that, in the end, the much hyped fight played out as it was destined to.
Books
Basket of Deplorables Riffs on Trump’s America—Sophie Gilbert dives into a new collection of short stories by Tom Rachman that consider privacy and cultural bubbles in a post-truth era.



We asked readers to answer our question for the October issue: What crime most changed the course of history? Vote for your favorite response below, and we’ll publish the results of the poll in the next issue.
Create your survey with SurveyMonkey



LCD Soundsystem became one of the most celebrated bands of the 2000s with a seemingly unsexy concept: dance music about getting older. Shuffle along to paranoid ranting about the youths who are hipper than you! Sweat while sobbing about the friends you’ll never see again! Energetically clean your house to the thought that your prime has passed! Bandleader James Murphy’s encyclopedic mastery of underground-rock history and his DJ-honed knack for the joys of rhythm ensured his band’s appeal. Yet the heart of the LCD experience was in his mangy croon: Whether he was reciting an essay or repeating one syllable ad nauseam, it reminded the listener that the song, and everything else, would eventually have to end.
He proved that concept with shocking literalness in 2011 when, at the height of LCD Soundsystem’s popularity, the band played a sold-out “funeral” at Madison Square Garden and quit, supposedly for good. Murphy explained the decision as a response to feeling like LCD Soundsystem was on the cusp of becoming bigger than he wanted it to be, and to his desire to explore other creative outlets. A mere five years later, though, LCD has returned, playing huge festival gigs and now releasing a fourth studio album. The cynical read: They wanted the paycheck. The band’s read: They just wanted to play again.
The Classic-Rock Ecstasy of The War on Drugs
Yet a deeper read of the band’s story emerges while listening to American Dream, LCD Soundsystem’s surprising, slow-burning, and satisfying comeback album. The breakup and resurrection now stands as an object lesson in Murphy’s favorite subject: maintaining vitality over the slog of decades. In some of his riskiest music to date, Murphy insists that life can encompass more than one climax if you want it to—and that the greatest parties come only after you accept your own mortality. “We’re all going to die someday, so you change your mind,” he wrote in a 2016 Facebook comment that foreshadowed the album’s themes. “You get remarried to your ex if you fall back in love. You speak to your parents after vowing to never do so again. Or, you play with your band again."
One listen to American Dream dispels the suspicion that Murphy wants to resume the march to mainstream stardom. The dance-punk elements he previously used for cleanly produced and easily appreciated rave-ups now thump in grimier, more monotonous songs where catharsis is only ever hard-earned. Percussion does, as before, drive the show, but the impression you get from listening is not of precise, software-assisted composition but rather a fleet of players in one echo-y studio, jamming out on bongos and high hats and Roland TR-808s. Choruses are notional, half-remembered things here. Melodies emerge from syllables that first seem atonally barked. The guitar and keyboard tones are as likely to scratch at the listener’s fear reflex as they are at their pleasure center. Daft Punk would not play this material at most houses.

But stick with American Dream and eventually most of these songs reveal themselves as meaty mind-and-body workouts. It’s taken months for the lead single, “Call the Police,” to click into place for me, but it deserves to be ranked as one of the best political-personal-pop anthems of the year. Over dual guitar lines—one like a rumbling engine, the other like skywriting—Murphy tries out a circa-2017 counterculture pose: “There’s a full-blown rebellion but you’re easy to confuse / by triggered kids and fakers and some questionable views.” As the song froths over, the nasty state of the national discourse comes to feel like a rock bottom—somewhere from which to launch. “When we all start arguing the history of the Jews / you got nothing left to lose,” he sings, pronouncing “jews” in a campy yodel of disbelief and abandon.
Another initially perplexing single, “Tonite,” is similarly soulful. Over squelchy electro funk and assisted by a vocoder, Murphy rambles on about how the eternal concerns of pop music—“Everybody’s singing the same song / It goes ‘tonight, tonight, tonight, tonight, tonight, tonight’”—are a tell for the fear of dying. His lyrics are, as always before, made up of impressionistic snippets that feel like inside jokes. But the gist is always in reach. Toward the end of the tune, he turns to address “you who’ve been badgered and taunted and told that you’re missing a party,” before a chorus of condolence surges upward: “That’s … all … lies.” He’s saying there’s more than tonight, tonight, tonight, as it turns out.

As fits the occasion, many of these songs are rooted in the feeling of waking up after a big rager. The slow-dancing title track tells of being filled with revolutionary fervor while on an acid trip and then facing crushing malaise during the comedown. “Other Voices” narrates a solitary morning ritual over a riotous dance floor bustling while a wheezing guitar line traces Murphy’s ragged vocals. Eventually bandmate Nancy Whang breaks in with a crisply enunciated verse: “Who can you trust? And who are your friends?” The feeling of betrayal and suspicion she refers to gets blown up to devastating proportions on the nine-minute disco dirge “How Do You Sleep?,” in which Murphy’s narrator condemns a cocaine-hoofing narcissist from his past.
If these songs don’t always sound energized with new life, they are powerful for the way they reconcile exhaustion with a commitment to moving forward. The track that’s the key to it all—as an explanation for LCD Soundsystem’s return, and really for the universal existential quandaries Murphy likes to chew on—is the skittering Talking Heads homage “Change Yr Mind.” Guitars nervously scratch, an alarm-like cowbell rings and leaves, and Murphy sings of an awful stasis: “I ain’t seen anyone for days / I still have yet to leave the bed.” Post-election blues? Post-breakup blues? Post-youth blues? Any of it fits. But as the whirling rock arrangement settles into something closer to techno’s comforting pulse, Murphy has an epiphany: “If we don’t like where it’s been, it could be over … You can change your mind.” It’s a small, humble stab at inspiration—but one that, given the messenger, you can believe.



"Winter is coming," they warned us, and the seventh season of Game of Thrones might have proved them right. But no one mentioned that winter in Westeros would coincide with so many troubling events in real-world politics. In this episode, Megan Garber, staff writer for The Atlantic, joins Radio Atlantic cohosts Alex Wagner and Matt Thompson for a conversation about lessons from the show, and other recent pop culture.
Two things to note:
Links:
“I Saw His Humanity: 'Reveal' Host On Protecting Right-Wing Protester” (Kelly McEvers, NPR)
Pygmy Girls Initiation Song


Since 2004, Hollywood has been working to adapt the Deborah Moggach novel Tulip Fever, which has long been seen as a major prestige project with Oscar potential. Tom Stoppard, the legendary British playwright, wrote the screenplay for the final iteration of the film. The movie stars three Academy Award winners (Alicia Vikander, Judi Dench, and Christoph Waltz), along with up-and-coming stars like Dane DeHaan and Cara Delevingne. Footage from the film was screened at the Cannes Film Festival ... in May 2015. Now, after untold delays, it’s coming out, packaged as “the year’s sexiest thriller.”
Two years after Tulip Fever was first scheduled for release, audiences will finally be able to see it in theaters. But the film, out Friday, isn’t being screened for critics, and the release strategy is reminiscent of someone being snuck out the back door in hopes of attracting as little attention as possible. It’s a fittingly strange ending to one of the most mysteriously drawn-out productions in recent film memory—but so many questions remain. What happened to Tulip Fever along the way, to transmogrify it from high-end awards contender to a studio’s secret shame? And will the fuss around its delayed release actually help in drawing eyeballs to a movie that might otherwise have been dismissed as a staid costume drama?
It Is Now Possible to Buy Tulips With Bitcoin
Moggach’s book is set in the Netherlands in the 17th century, at the height of “tulip mania,” a phenomenon where the recently introduced flower became the hottest ticket in Europe before the speculative market around it collapsed in 1637 (not unlike so many a dot-com bubble hundreds of years later). DeHaan plays an artist, Jan Van Loos, who falls for married society woman Sophia (Vikander) when he’s contracted to paint her. Together, they invest in the tulip market in an effort to make enough money to escape from the clutches of her domineering husband Cornelis (Waltz).
You’d be forgiven for thinking that doesn’t exactly sound like a box office barn-burner. But the novel was once a hot Hollywood property, optioned by Steven Spielberg and initially planned as a $48 million DreamWorks production in 2004, directed by John Madden (Shakespeare in Love) and starring Jude Law, Keira Knightley (or perhaps Natalie Portman), and Jim Broadbent. The film was in active pre-production, with sets built and some 12,000 tulips planted, when the U.K. government closed a tax loophole and the financing collapsed. Those 12,000 bulbs, Moggach said, were given to her friends and neighbors in London, sprouting everywhere as a reminder of a film that never was.
Moggach isn’t some Hollywood neophyte: She wrote the screenplay for the 2005 Pride and Prejudice and saw her novel These Foolish Things adapted into the film The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel. So there remained interest in Tulip Fever, which was finally resurrected as a film by the mega-producer Harvey Weinstein. Though its budget was lower, at $25 million, Weinstein still assembled a big cast and hired Stoppard to work on the script; many more tulips were planted, and the film was finally committed to celluloid in 2014. That, usually, would have been the end of that.
Tulip Fever was first slotted for a November 2015 release, capitalizing on Vikander’s emergence as a star (she won an Oscar for The Danish Girl, which came out that fall). Then it was moved to July 2016. Then February 2017, seemingly acknowledging that the film had limited awards potential, coupled with rumors that The Weinstein Company, which produced the film, was lacking in funds to mount several major releases every year. Just before its February release, the film was punted again, down to August, and in some strange final indignity, it was shoved to September 1, where it will (reportedly) finally debut in semi-limited release.
Some journalists have attended screenings throughout the years; many more audiences have been subjected to untold test screenings, with Weinstein and the director Justin Chadwick trying out various cuts. But this new edition has been largely kept under wraps. A Writers Guild of America screening was canceled, at the last minute; the horror film Annabelle: Creation was reportedly shown instead. The film’s advertising strategy, such as it is, is suddenly emphasizing that Tulip Fever is a steamy sex thriller, a far cry from the tony Stoppard-penned costume drama it was originally pitched as. Soon, audiences will be able to decide for themselves.
The journey of Tulip Fever is a sort of Hollywood eclipse, an occasional phenomenon that has no wider bearing on the industry but is the kind of unusual, fascinating spectacle that draws in some committed film fans. Something similar happened with David O. Russell’s Nailed, a 2008 comedy starring Jake Gyllenhaal and Jessica Biel that was disowned by its director and eventually released as Accidental Love in 2015, making only a few thousand dollars at the box office. There was also Serena, an epic drama starring Jennifer Lawrence and Bradley Cooper, which took almost two years to make it to theaters and was barely noticed upon release.
But Tulip Fever seems special even by that yardstick. It’s a film that, more likely than not, was never anything more than ordinary—an Oscar player that missed the mark, hardly an unusual phenomenon in any given year. But all this fuss over its mysterious release has turned it into a genuine curio, the kind of potential camp-fest that will be remembered for years simply because of the circumstances of its production. We’ll finally know how good, or bad, Tulip Fever is on Friday. But the real thrill for this one has been in the wait.


“I don’t want life to be hard for you,” a mother, played by Angela Bassett, says to her daughter Denise after learning her child is gay in the Master of None episode, “Thanksgiving.” “It is hard enough being a black woman in this world. Now you want to add something else to that?” Lena Waithe, who plays Denise, read for the role when the character was supposed to be a straight childhood friend to the main character, Dev (Aziz Ansari). Soon after casting Waithe, though, the co-creators Ansari and Alan Yang ditched the character’s background for one based on some of her real-life experiences.
That decision—to have Denise reflect Waithe’s identity as a queer black woman—led to Waithe being asked to co-write “Thanksgiving,” which went on to become one of Master of None’s most praised storylines. Thanks to her work on the episode, Waithe is up for an Emmy Award for comedy writing on September 17; she’s also the first black woman ever to be nominated in the category. Based largely on her own experiences, “Thanksgiving” chronicles Denise’s life over decades of holiday dinners, where she evolves from a tomboyish teenager in the ’90s to a woman coming out to her mother and dealing with familial growing pains as she brings a series of girlfriends home.
The Emmy nomination is just the beginning of what looks to be a busy year for Waithe, who previously worked on shows such as Bones and films such as Dear White People. Following her performance on the second season of Master of None, Waithe is now producing her own drama series on Showtime, The Chi, about a handful of black men on the South Side of Chicago, where she’s from, and developing a pilot about her experience living in Los Angeles in her 20s. She’ll also appear in Steven Spielberg’s film adaptation of Ready Player One, which is set to premiere in March 2018.
With each project, Waithe is solidifying her place among a cast of Hollywood’s new multihyphenates—including Issa Rae, Donald Glover, and Aziz Ansari, to name a few—that juggle writing, acting, directing, and producing responsibilities. For The Atlantic’s series on the business of creativity, I spoke with Waithe about how the industry is shifting, overcoming the stigma associated with black women creatives, and how writing “Thanksgiving” changed her view of storytelling. The interview that follows has been edited for length and clarity.
Adrienne Green: How did you get your start in the entertainment industry?
Lena Waithe: I’ve been obsessed with television since I was 7 years old, and I’ve always been writing on some level. My first official job was an assistant to the showrunners at [UPN’s] Girlfriends. I got the chance to be around all these cool black people making art and that was really big for me. I was writing bad scripts for a while, and luckily those writers would give me feedback. I ended up working for Gina Prince-Bythewood and ultimately worked for Ava DuVernay on [her film] I Will Follow.
Green: Earlier this year at an event honoring Gina Prince-Bythewood you told a hilarious story about being her assistant and being given the task of getting Whoopi Goldberg on the phone without help. What lessons about the business did you learn from that early part in your career?
Waithe: Honestly, [I learned about] decorum and the way specifically black women have to carry themselves in this industry. You can’t be pissed about a note, you can’t be angry about the way that something is happening, you can’t be unhappy about the creative process. When you handle it, you have to be Claire Underwood in House of Cards. In that town, there is still a stigma that goes along with being a woman, particularly a woman of color, where people already want to label you difficult or not easy to work with. It’s happened to me. So we ultimately have to navigate this industry in a different way. We have to sometimes be kind to people who aren’t kind to us, we sometimes have to be polite, even when we’re not in the mood, we have to handle dealing with executives in a different way because otherwise we run the risk of being put in industry jail.
People can say what they want about a person, but if you’re successful and you make them money, then people don’t care. The truth is, I’m always working to get to that place so I don’t have to make myself quieter or make other people feel comfortable in certain instances. I learned a lot of that in watching Mara [Brock Akil], in watching Gina [Prince-Bythewood], in watching Ava [DuVernay] because they really do glide through the industry with a lot of class and grace and dignity, even though they’ve been put through probably a lot more trials and tribulations than their white male counterparts.
Green: Where do you draw the energy to encourage yourself when that gets frustrating?
Waithe: You remind yourself that the reason that you have to behave that way is because people are insecure. Because the truth is, the paradigm is shifting in the industry. They need [black women] now, in a real way. Look at Ava, look at Issa [Rae], myself. Tracy Oliver is now the first black woman to be credited as a writer on a film that made over $100 million for Girls Trip. Make no mistake, the people that own these big corporations and networks are still in charge. But, this is not a coincidence. How many more box-office successes or Golden Globes will it take before people realize, “Oh, the people who aren’t ‘in charge’ have the drop on what the culture is wanting and needing and starving for.”
There’s controversy around certain stories about brown bodies being told by people who aren’t brown, and the world isn’t standing for that [anymore]. So now there’s a really dire need for writers and creators to come on and tell our own stories. I was in D.C. and I was honored to go to the National Museum of African American History and Culture. To be a black person is to come from a long bloodline of survivors and storytellers, with a resilience that people can’t even comprehend. I walked out of there a different person. I stood in front of Emmett Till’s casket. Without telling our stories, we will be forgotten.
I don’t subscribe to that thing that white folks can’t tell our stories. A white person wrote one of my favorite episodes of A Different World, called “Mammy Dearest.” But, what I do believe is that the person that was sitting at the head of the table was a black woman, [the director Debbie Allen,] and they were working together to make sure that story was told in a very dignified way.
Green: What is it like having concentrated creative control now that you’re developing your own show on Showtime?
Waithe: I definitely have been very mindful of what kind of leader and creator I want to be. A lot of that has to with looking at the writers that you work with. They’re all like your children. They all need love, but different versions of it.
Having a singular vision [is important]. There’s a difference between being collaborative and something being done by committee. When everyone falls in line with whatever the vision is you get something really great. You look at [projects by] Jordan Peele, Donald Glover, Michaela Coel, Justin Simien, there’s obviously a single vision. I do think it’s difficult sometimes for the industry to do that because what you’re saying in that instance is, “This person is in charge.” Some people look at that and think, “Oh, I must be inferior if they’re in charge.” No, this person is the sergeant, but you’re all on the same team.
Waithe: Sometimes you can’t always preserve it. Especially if it’s your first show, you have to be really collaborative. I’m still growing my legs as an artist. Maybe on the next thing it will be more exactly my vision, because I will have learned different things about how to assert myself. The Chi is about Chicago, it’s where I’m from, so it’s a part of who I am. But also it’s the first TV show that I’ve ever sold. I’m hopeful that people in Chicago will like it, I hope that people will respond to it. But for me, by the time that I get my third show, there’s no excuse for, “Yeah I’m still trying to figure it out.”
Master of None’s Greatest Strength Is Its Curiosity
Green: Both you and Aziz Ansari have spoken about the fact that he and co-creator Alan Yang wouldn’t proceed with the “Thanksgiving” episode unless you wrote it. How did being consulted like that change your perception of writers rooms where characters of diverse backgrounds aren’t written with input from writers of color?
Waithe: I’ll be honest, writing that episode was the most freeing experience I’ve ever had. It’s the difference in going from being a slave to being free. They didn’t bring in somebody to rewrite me or put it through a filter of somebody that doesn’t look like me to make it more palatable for a broader audience. Our writers’ draft versus the real one is like 98 percent the same. That never happens, but what that says to me is, when it does happen that’s when success comes. Aziz let me lead. He said, this is your story, I can’t tell it the way you can, and you need to do this your way. For me to have that experience was enough, but the reaction to it was icing on the cake.
It’s interesting because [the director] Barry Jenkins said he made Moonlight for an audience of two, him and [his co-writer] Tarell McCraney. I made that episode for an audience of one: myself. This is something that I never thought I would write about, not because I’m ashamed of it but because I was feeling like, “I’m gay, of course I had a coming-out story.” That’s such a part of our narrative [as LGBT people], but I guess people needed that story in my very unique, specific sort of way. And for people to embrace it the way they have, it feels like the world is embracing, not just me, this queer brown girl from the South Side of Chicago, but they’re also embracing my voice. They were like, “We see you, we appreciate you, we love you,” and that was the fuel I needed.
Green: Given the offerings of shows on TV right now, where do you think the conversation about diversity in storytelling is heading?
Waithe: I don’t think there’s ever a time where the industry all of a sudden is going to go, “Ok, we’re going to start letting these black girls tell their stories, purely and unfiltered.” Because you’ve got to understand, [the people in charge] saying, “We’ve got to let them lead,” means that there needs to be a real shift in culture and industry. If they really start to accept the reality of the thing—that we don’t need the notes as much as they think, that we don’t need to be put through a filter, that we don’t need that guy to come and rewrite us—that breaks down the whole infrastructure. They start looking around like, “Well what do y’all need us for?”
There are places like FX and Netflix saying, “We want to be a place where people can see your work.” There needs to be more of a real collaboration. Things become problematic when someone that oversees a show that they don’t really get but they like the idea of it try to make it fit into a box. But when people say, “I don’t get this, but that’s okay and I’ll support you,” that’s when you get magic. Sometimes you fall flat on your face, so I understand the fear. But at the end of the day, when you succeed you make something amazing. I saw Moonlight in the movie theater three times—three times! I want more of that.
Green: You’re the first black woman to be nominated for an Emmy in comedy writing. Do you predict people will receive your work or ideas differently now as you’re pitching new projects?
Waithe: I’m sure. I’m not naive to the business, so I know what [the Emmy nomination] means. I think it puts me in a different position in the industry and gives me little bit more respect. But I’m an artist at the end of the day. People ask how my life has changed, and I got up and had a writing session the day after [getting nominated].
I’ll never not be Lena Waithe, Emmy-nominated writer. But I hope what that [means] is that there was that moment in time where I was my best self, I made something that the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences believes is worthy of a nomination. But, at the same time, I’m still gonna go hard. I would never rest on that. The goal is to surprise people with my writing, to make them think, and laugh, and to make them emotional while watching a character that looks nothing like them or comes from a  completely different walk of life. And if I get nominated in the process that’s fantastic. But ultimately I want to write something that makes people want to go to the movies three times.
Green: What would you say is the most difficult part about achieving this level of success and trying to usher in new voices or hold the door open?
Waithe: It’s not difficult at all. Does it take more effort? Sure. But there’s a multitude of voices that I come across that I love—Marcus Gardley, Justin Hillian, Cathy Kisakye, Dime Davis. I literally just gave you every writer in the writers room of The Chi. That is the difference, saying their names. Just how we say our ancestors’ names, I say their names. I’m going to force the industry to notice them. My hope is that I can continue to introduce executive industry people to amazing black writers so that there’s no shortage of them to choose from. I don’t want to just hire people to make my stuff look good. I want to know what show they have to make and how I can help make it happen. That’s the only way the industry is going to change—from the inside out. It just can’t be about my empire. I want to not just see us run races in separate lanes, I want to see us grab hands and run faster and cross the finish line together.


Last week’s announcement that the actor Ed Skrein had been cast as the supporting character Ben Daimio in an upcoming reboot of the film series Hellboy was, in many ways, unsurprising. Skrein, a white Englishman, is best known for his work in the third season of Game of Thrones and as the villain in Deadpool. That genre cred, it seems, was enough to land him a role playing someone explicitly written as Japanese American in the original Hellboy comics.
Skrein’s casting was hard to justify from even the most cynical angle. Daimio is a supporting role, and Skrein is not the kind of star who guarantees big box-office sales (the usual reason cited for such casting)—and yet the move was another in a long line of “whitewashing” incidents, where white actors are cast in roles originally written for, or obviously intended as, people of color. Studios have done little to address this issue in recent years. But criticism from fans, activists, and Asian American actors made at least one person on the project take notice: Skrein himself, who announced within days that he’d be leaving the movie. “I accepted the role unaware that the character in the original comics was of mixed Asian heritage,” Skrein said. “There has been intense conversation and understandable upset since that announcement, and I must do what I feel is right.”
What Is Matt Damon Doing on Top of The Great Wall?
Beyond Skrein’s quick response to the Hellboy backlash, the detail he went into in his statement was notable. “Representation of ethnic diversity is important, especially to me as I have a mixed heritage family,” he said (Skrein is of Austrian-Jewish and English descent). “It is our responsibility to make moral decisions in difficult times and give voice to inclusivity.” His acceptance of that responsibility as an artist was clear, as was the effectiveness of the pushback from fans that helped him realize it. The creator of the original comics, Mike Mignola, thanked him for his decision, tweeting, “very nicely done.” But the buck shouldn’t stop with Skrein; he shouldn’t have been in this position in the first place.
Lionsgate, the studio behind Hellboy: Rise of the Blood Queen (which will star Stranger Things’s David Harbour), and the film’s producers Larry Gordon and Lloyd Levin said in a statement that the decision to quit was Skrein’s. “Ed came to us and felt very strongly about this. We fully support his unselfish decision,” they said. “It was not our intent to be insensitive to issues of authenticity and ethnicity, and we will look to recast the part with an actor more consistent with the character in the source material.” They haven’t, however, answered the question of why Skrein was chosen to begin with; if anything, his casting came off as a symptom of institutional lethargy in Hollywood around this issue.
There have been plenty of flashpoints over whitewashing in Hollywood’s history. Decades ago, white actors would routinely play characters of color, often sporting offensive makeup; classic films like Breakfast at Tiffany’s or Lawrence of Arabia feature performances from Mickey Rooney and Alec Guinness that are horrifying racial stereotypes. While such blatant failures happen less often, subtler ones are commonplace today, including in movies where white actors play real-life people of color: The Social Network (Max Minghella’s character is Indian in reality), or 21 (where the Asian American card players at the center of the real story were made into white characters in the film).
And then there are obviously clunky moves, like having Emma Stone play an (entirely fictional) character named Allison Ng in Aloha who proudly describes herself as a quarter Hawaiian and a quarter Chinese. For most of Hollywood’s history, audiences might have been generally unaware of off-screen changes, especially if the real-life figures being portrayed were less well known. But modern online activism and the wave of bad publicity that comes with it (which can drive ticket sales down) have begun to spur meaningful change, with one example being Skrein’s prompt response.
The most prominent whitewashing controversy in the immediate lead-up to Skrein’s casting centered on Scarlett Johansson playing Motoko Kusanagi in the live-action remake of the classic Japanese anime Ghost in the Shell. That film tried, through complicated plot mechanics, to explain why Motoko’s brain had been put into the body (or “shell”) of a white woman, a half-hearted measure that ended up enraging fans and confuse casual viewers. (One particularly jarring scene saw Motoko mourning the death of her old body with her Japanese mother, an attempt at heartfelt drama that came too suddenly, and ended too quickly, to feel remotely earned.) The studio, Paramount, blamed the film’s financial failure on the whitewashing debate and bad reviews, which was especially ironic since the industry defense of Johansson’s casting was that she had global box-office appeal.
Even more recently, Adam Wingard’s critically reviled Netflix remake of the Japanese manga Death Note prompted another fan outcry online over its mostly white casting. Remakes are, of course, slightly trickier territory than straight adaptations, but much as with Ghost in the Shell, Doctor Strange, and many other prior examples (like M. Night Shyamalan’s The Last Airbender, the ancient Egyptian epics Exodus and Gods of Egypt, or the Jake Gyllenhaal vehicle Prince of Persia), Death Note retained the specific character names of its source material.
The go-to excuse for Hollywood executives defending questionable casting is that producers want to hire actors who have proven pull at the box office (and who are usually white). It’s an easily dismissed justification, not least because vehicles with white stars fail all the time without hurting the performers’ careers. Many of these parts, like the one Skrein landed, are supporting roles that hardly make or break ticket sales but that could help a new or rising performer of color gain the kind of exposure to eventually be seen as a global draw. Still, Hollywood is not nearly as star-driven as it once was; one of the most successful films of 2017 so far was Get Out, which starred the relative unknown Daniel Kaluuya, while another was Dunkirk, featuring the total unknown Fionn Whitehead.
More importantly, films like Gods of Egypt and Ghost in the Shell have flopped in part because of the negative publicity generated by their casting—a pattern that should worry executives who are genuinely interested in the bottom line. Fan communities, activists, and performers have been speaking out about diversity and representation for many years, and their critiques had a direct impact in Skrein’s case. His decision to stand aside is a rare one and might signal a growing awareness among white actors about what they can do to help address a longstanding issue. Of course, this could also be a blip—one instance where a performer walked away from a paycheck and a studio agreed because the role wasn’t too central to its project. But if (or, likely, when) another misguided casting decision is made, the performer in question should find it harder to ignore both Skrein’s precedent and the bad buzz that will surely follow.


It’s hard to accurately convey how well-loved The Great British Bake Off is in the U.K., just as it’s difficult to explain the appeal of the somewhat eccentric televised baking contest—in which a contestant once fashioned a cake re-creation of his near-death experience—to someone who’s never seen it. When news broke last year that the series had been purchased by a rival network, after airing on the BBC for all of its seven seasons, a fit of something akin to national hysteria broke out. The show’s two hosts, Sue Perkins and Mel Giedroyc, quit in high dudgeon, as did one of the judges, Mary Berry. (The sole remaining star, Paul Hollywood, chose to stay with the show and has been lambasted with snake emojis on social media ever since.)
Suffice to say, when the eighth season debuted on Channel 4 on Tuesday night, and one of the new judges, Sandi Toksvig, jokily referred to Perkins in a fake phone call while “floating” above the set in a hot-air balloon, you half expected the country to furiously spit, “How dare you stand where she stood,” like Harry Potter confronting Snape in the Battle of Hogwarts. But the moment passed, the show got back to business, and soon it was clear that this was no Great Stylistic Shake-up, just the same old beloved format with a few fresh faces, and an extra 15 minutes of advertisements sandwiched in between rounds. Stays could be loosened. Teeth could be unground. A crisis was averted.
#gbbo I liked it. Ads didn’t bother us that much. Out with the old in with the new 👍🏼
After almost a year of catfighting, snubs, and calls to boycott a cultural product so insanely popular that half of the nation’s televisions watched the Season 7 premiere, it was a relatively smooth transition. It’s hard not to imagine Channel 4 executives breathing a colossal sigh of relief, given that the Bake Off poaching was such a PR disaster for the network that its chief creative officer was drafted to repair the damage to its brand. There were concerns that the broadcaster, known for its quirky indie aesthetic, might hipsterize a show that was defiantly un-hip at best, filmed in a tent so big that grannies, Millennials, bankers, and hijab-wearing Muslims could bake cosily side by side. When the first trailer for the new season, a stop-motion animation featuring anthropomorphized baked goods vomiting jam into tarts and puffing up suggestively, was released, some feared the worst.
The Great British Break-Up
And yet the producers, predictably, have kept Bake Off almost exactly the same. To replace Mary Berry, a pastel-clad octogenarian with a nanny-knows-best demeanor and a veritable garden of floral prints, Love Productions drafted Prue Leith, a similarly plummy 77-year-old catering entrepreneur. Beyond a stunning gaffe in the first few minutes when Leith mentioned the dreaded c-word on camera (calories), she fit so smoothly into Berry’s shoes that it was almost uncanny.
The new presenters, Sandi Toksvig and Noel Fielding, were more of a gamble. Toksvig, an Anglo-Danish actor and comedian, felt obviously drafted into the Perkins role, doling out smutty innuendo and wry asides as the contestants fashioned fruity sponges and mini fingers and showstopping cake illusions. Fielding, a comedian and actor best known for the surreal comedy show The Mighty Boosh, was the big wild card in the lineup—a self-professed goth artist who once dated Courtney Love and who’d previously been fired by the BBC after he admitted to taking a pharmacopeia of illegal drugs.
And yet, in the debut episode, Fielding was so restrained he came across almost like Willy Wonka playing it straight to meet his girlfriend’s parents. Beyond the show’s opening setpiece, where he sported a steampunk top hat and flying goggles, Fielding’s typically outrageous wardrobe was limited to a collared shirt printed with birds. There was a lone madcap moment where he pretended to eat a marigold, and a slightly uncomfortable flirtation with a baker who was carving a champagne bottle out of a phallic piece of modeling chocolate, but otherwise, the entertainer who once “shocked” the Daily Mail with a song about erections mostly seemed nervous.
Now, it’s more apparent than ever that the show’s appeal is less in its stars than in its contestants. The casting team reportedly auditioned 150 bakers on camera out of several thousand applicants to get the right mix of amateurs, and Season 8’s instant fan-favorites—the Liverpudlian granny Flo, who crafted a cake to look like a giant watermelon, and the Hackney teenager Liam, who cheekily invited Prue to his house for breakfast—proved how winning the formula is. The Bake Off tent, Charlotte Higgins wrote in The Guardian in 2015, “stands in for a utopian little Britain in which all—the firefighter, the student, the grandmother, the doctor, the nurse, the prison governor, the full-time mother, the musician—exist in harmony.” Britain may be divided by Brexit, and by national politics, and even by the cultural merit of Celebrity Love Island, but #GBBO, as it’s referred to on Twitter, is a great uniter. Popular among men and women, young and old, it keeps what’s left of Britain’s tattered dream of pluralism and equality alive.
So, in this particularly turbulent moment, it’s more needed than ever. The show, Lucy Mangan wrote last night, is “where I want to be when the bombs start falling.” It’s a green and pleasant island in stormy waters. It brings together NHS biochemists and amateur blacksmiths, apples and cinnamon, priapic goths and the founder of the Women’s Equality Party. The news that PruPaul’s Bake Race, as one fan christened the reboot, still retains the power to comfort is welcome indeed, even if it’s less popular than it once was. (Roughly 6.5 million viewers watched the first episode on Channel 4, making it a huge hit for the network but far below the BBC’s average of 10 million.) In the U.S., where the series is known as The Great British Baking Show for copyright reasons, the new season will air on PBS in 2018.


Updated on September 11, 2017
On a hot summer day in Nevada City, California, a group of teenage girls are scattered before a stage in the town’s cultural center. They’re studying an analog soundboard, which is covered with so many knobs and levers that it looks like it belongs in the cockpit of an airplane. Onstage, a band is doing a sound check, which requires lots of drumming, strumming, and saying “check” into a microphone.
“Check is a really annoying word,” the guitar player says. “Yeah, it’s losing all meaning,” the bassist replies.
It’s the last day of the week-long Live Sound Camp for Girls. This afternoon, there will be a show, but the band won’t be the real focus. Rather, the performance will be a chance for 16 girls—and a few boys—to show off the live music-production skills they’ve learned by controlling all the technical aspects of the concert on their own.
The camp’s instructor, Tiffany Hendren, hovers by the soundboard as the teenagers take turns with the headphones. One participant, 17-year-old Mary Vogel, explains the intricacies of micing a drum set to me.  “You’re creating something live right in front of you,” she says of sound engineering. “You’re making it richer. You’re taking out the little buzzes and snaps and things you just don’t want to hear because it takes away from the performance.” Vogel, who has spent two summers at the camp, says she’s considering taking music-production classes in college next year.
Sound Camp, which has events in California as well as St. Louis, Philadelphia, and New York, is part of SoundGirls.org, an organization co-founded by Karrie Keyes, the live-sound engineer for Pearl Jam. Keyes tells me she started the camp to encourage girls and introduce them to potential careers in audio. “It lets them get their hands on the gear before anyone can discourage them or frighten them away,” she says.
Keyes works in a profession that has long been notoriously dominated by men. In 2000, the Audio Engineering Society’s (AES) women in audio committee—which is now, tellingly, defunct—loosely estimated that 5 percent of those working in the field were female. A 2016 survey by AES found 7 percent of its members were women, though that number is incomplete because participants could opt out of reporting their gender. According to Women’s Audio Mission (WAM), a nonprofit that trains women for sound careers, that number is probably lower. With men holding the vast majority of technical jobs in audio, it follows that virtually all the music we hear—on the radio, over headphones, or in a live venue—has been shaped by a man.
Women like Hendren and Keyes spend many years mastering their craft. When she’s not teaching at Sound Camp, Hendren is a full-time sound engineer who works for venues in St. Louis and tours with bands. Hendren got her start by spending five years as a monitor engineer, which means she was in charge of what artists hear on stage. Her venue saw 150 to 175 shows a year, but she says she can count on one hand the number of female sound engineers she met during that time.
“The guys who worked at the venue were great,” Hendren says of The Pageant in St. Louis. “But I always felt like I had to be a little bit better at my job than they were. And then when I started talking to other women, and had that feeling confirmed, it was like, ‘Okay, I’m not imagining this. This really is taking me a lot more effort than it’s taking that guy over there.’” Hendren says she has lost work for being a woman; in one case, she was rejected for a job because the band’s wives were uncomfortable with a woman being on the bus.
Teaching at Sound Camp has been life-changing for Hendren. When she describes the first time she saw the girls run a show without her help, she tears up. “It was so great,” Hendren says. “It was really amazing to feel like I did something for someone that no one was able to do for me.”
* * *
It is important to note that, despite the challenges, women have been producing music for decades. In the 1950s, when Cordell Jackson (nicknamed “the rock-and-roll granny”) couldn’t break into Sun Records, she started her own Memphis-based label, Moon Records, likely making her the first female record producer and engineer in the U.S. Other early women producers include Bonnie Guitar, whose label made hits like The Fleetwoods’s “Come Softly to Me,” and Sylvia Moy, who produced Motown acts and worked with Stevie Wonder. Ellie Greenwich co-wrote and co-produced hits like “Chapel of Love” and “Leader of the Pack.” Sylvia Robinson, known as the “godmother of hip-hop,” started Sugar Hill Records, which put out the seminal track “Rapper’s Delight” in 1979.
Today, prominent female producers include Sylvia Massy, Sally Browder, Leslie Ann Jones, and Kara DioGuardi. There’s the rapper Missy Elliott, who has built a well-regarded career as a producer; Linda Perry from 4 Non Blondes, who has worked with artists like Pink and Christina Aguilera; and Tokimonsta, a classically trained pianist who has worked with Kelly Rowland. Still younger rising stars include WondaGurl, a Canadian beatmaker who has been producing since she was 9 years old and who famously worked with Jay-Z when she was 16.
The impressive individual accomplishments of these women, however, don’t change the overall systemic picture—the fact that list after list from music publications ranking top producers often don’t include a single woman. Billboard’s 2016 Power 100 list only has 14 women on it, with none in the top 10. No woman has won the Grammy for Producer of the Year (Non-Classical). In the award’s 43-year history, there have been only six women nominees for that category: Janet Jackson, Mariah Carey, Paula Cole, Lauryn Hill, Sheryl Crow, and Lauren Christy, who worked with Liz Phair and Hilary Duff.
As the last set of examples suggests, when a woman is lauded for her producing skills, she’s usually also a well-known performer. Men, on the other hand, are more likely to be touted for their musical technical prowess alone, according to several female engineers I spoke with. “It’s always a sexy woman performing ... a sexy woman singing who’s produced by an amazing man behind the glass,” says Leslie Gaston-Bird, the AES vice president for western USA/Canada. “Even Björk had to come out and say, ‘I produce my own stuff. ... I just happened to work with a man.’”
Women in audio deal with unique challenges that come from working within a cross-section of two traditionally male-dominated fields. Because of the technical nature of their jobs, they experience issues similar to those many women in STEM—science, technology, engineering, and math—face, such as struggling for respect and being second-guessed by their peers. On top of that are the added pressures of the competitive and fickle music industry.
Historically, audio engineering has relied on apprenticeships: An established engineer will find a younger person with potential and interest, take him under his wing, and teach him the job. Such mentorships foster loyalty but can also end up shutting women out of the field. “[The apprenticeship model] gives young women a challenge because it’s less likely that an older [male] engineer is going to see himself in a young woman,” says Susan Rogers, a professor at Berklee College of Music who was also the sound engineer on Prince’s Purple Rain. “So it’s another barrier of entry.”
Since training an engineer from scratch is a lot of work, the industry is increasingly turning to colleges to teach audio professionals. Which brings up another possible reason for the lack of female producers: Women don’t take as many music-engineering classes. At Berklee, for example, only 15 to 20 percent of students in engineering classes are women, Rogers says. According to an AES convention paper presented in 2016, male students regularly outnumbered female students 5 to 1 at the Recording Engineers Institute in New York. This year, the University of Colorado’s Recording Arts Program reported seeing 45 female applicants compared to 170 male applicants.*
It’s possible, too, that women aren’t going into audio because they don’t know these careers exist. When Gaston-Bird interviewed women in the industry about their careers, she found that the majority learned about their jobs by accident, by going to shows and talking to people who work with bands. (This awareness problem, to be fair, can apply to men as well.) But this still doesn’t explain why, when women do know about audio engineering, they tend to choose other career paths in music instead.
While there are few studies on the issue, the little data there is suggests this disparity starts young. In 2014, researchers at the University of Colorado, led by Gaston-Bird, asked 36 students (18 male, 18 female) at a Denver secondary school what music-related careers they were interested in. The results were divided along gender lines between technical and nontechnical careers. While both groups wanted to be artists, the girls were also interested in being sound designers, music therapists, songwriters, teachers, and composers. The boys wanted to work in sound design and mixing, electronic-music programming, audio software design, producing, and recording engineering.
Terri Winston, the executive director of WAM, says she believes women don’t go into audio partly because of how young girls are first exposed to technology. When women don’t play with tools or learn to build things as children, they can lack interest or confidence in using those skills as adults. “It’s not just our industry,” Winston tells me. “We have a very serious problem in this country in how we socialize women in technology and in leadership positions in general.”
Winston herself got to dodge this particular roadblock: Her father was a mechanical engineer who encouraged her to tinker with his equipment when she was growing up. At WAM, she tries to foster a similar sense of curiosity by exposing her students to different audio technologies in the “hope something sticks.” So far, it has: In 14 years, WAM has placed more than 400 women in sound-related jobs with companies like Dolby Laboratories, Pixar, Google, and Electronic Arts.
***
Once women secure jobs in audio, they can still grapple with sexist remarks, condescension, and unfair performance standards—as a recent discussion on the AES Facebook page illuminates. “This last 3 years I’ve spent designing and building a recording studio from scratch, and not a day has gone by where I haven’t experienced sexism,” one poster wrote. “I waste so much of my time on proving myself in ways that the men around me are never challenged on,” another said.
Emily Lazar is a mastering engineer who has been nominated for three Grammys and has worked with thousands of musicians, including Sia, David Bowie, and Björk. In an email, she explains that when she was coming up in her field in the ’90s she had few options for dealing with sexism at work. “If you did not just go along with a lot of the behavior, you would at least be excluded from sessions and your position threatened,” Lazar says. “I think the overt behavior has improved as of late. However, the underlying bias is still very much evident.”
Difficulties that women face in other jobs are only amplified in a heavily gender-skewed field like audio. Getting pregnant and having children can come with career-defining consequences. The hours are long and unpredictable, which can take a toll on family life, and there’s a constant pressure to stay relevant: In the competitive music world, even a brief hiatus can open the door for someone else to take your job. “There’s no taking time off and saying, ‘Here’s my replacement,’” says the sound engineer Shani Gandhi, who at 29 has already won a Grammy for Best Folk Album as engineer on Sarah Jarosz’s album Undercurrent. “If you don’t work, you’re not making money.” This lack of stability makes it even more financially risky to have a family. Most audio professionals are self-employed, which means health care comes out-of-pocket, and there are no benefits like paid maternity leave.
Technological changes have eased some of the pressure on this front. As with other fields, women working in audio in the 1970s and ’80s often felt they had to choose between careers and family. According to Rogers, during that period the recording tools were hardware-based, which, combined with expensive studio time, meant everyone involved in making the album had to keep working on-site until it was finished. Now the recording technology is usually on a laptop that can be paused when needed, and studios are often at home, which offers women more flexibility. However, issues like childcare still remain a challenge.
While the music industry has long ignored how few women work in audio, there are glimmers that things may be starting to change, from the newly formed Diversity and Inclusion Committee at AES to the continuing success of WAM to the rapidly growing SoundGirls.org. Trina Shoemaker, who has been a music producer and sound engineer for 23 years, says she’s optimistic about the industry’s future because, compared to when she was coming up, more women are seeking careers in audio. They just don’t have visibility yet, she adds, because it can take so long to become successful—a decade to learn the skills and another decade to master them. “There’s usually a 20- to 25-year period of time when women enter a field before they become proficient, and then the equalization happens,” Shoemaker says. “With audio, women started entering the field in the ’70s and ’80s. Now we’re in the 2010s, and there are quite a lot of women.”
At the SoundGirl’s camp in Nevada City, it’s striking how inspired the girls seem to be by learning audio technologies. Siena Bratt, 17, says working the analog soundboard “makes me feel like a badass.” As a burgeoning musician, she didn’t know before attending the camp how much control the engineer has over how the music sounds when it reaches the audience. “You really have all the power,” Bratt says. “And that’s incredible to me.”
* This article has been updated to reflect more recent data about enrollment in the University of Colorado’s Recording Arts Program.


This post contains spoilers through Season 7, Episode 7 of Game of Thrones.
“None of you were there to see what happened! None of you knows the truth!”
So protested Lord Petyr “Littlefinger” Baelish in Sunday’s Game of Thrones season finale, after his onetime ally Sansa Stark ambushed him with accusations of murder and treason in front of an audience of knights and lords.
“You held a knife to his throat,” cut in Bran Stark, the ever-less-chatty younger brother of Sansa. “You said, ‘I did warn you not to trust me.’”
Bran was referencing an incident from way back in Season 1, when Baelish betrayed Ned Stark, consigning the honorable family patriarch to execution. And Baelish had been right: No one accusing him had witnessed that moment. But when Bran spoke, a look of shock and recognition came over the conniving Baelish’s face. Somehow, this boy could see his past. Moments later, Baelish was consigned to death, his throat cut by Arya Stark, youngest daughter of Ned.
Thrones played Baelish’s comeuppance as the result of an Avengers-like team-up between the three living Stark heirs, demonstrating the extraordinary change they have all undergone over seven seasons. Sansa employed hard-earned wisdom; Arya employed long-honed force; Bran employed expensively gained sight. But step back and it becomes clear that the defining factor here was Bran. Baelish’s deceit, until now, had resulted in a long string of unchallenged wins. He finally met his match not because Sansa the self-described “slow learner” finally caught on, nor because Arya had trained to kill, but because Bran’s magic omniscience unveiled all the hidden things Littlefinger did to the Stark family.
It was two season finales ago that Bran gained the mysterious title of “The Three-Eyed Raven” after a long, strange trial north of the Wall. But it was in this season finale that the full scope and importance of his powers were most significantly displayed. Not only did he dig up the receipts to condemn Littlefinger, he provided a huge revelation for viewers by discovering that Jon Snow, thought to be a bastard of Ned Stark, is actually of royal parentage.
Both developments were a sign that Bran has become an MVP of the Game of Thrones plot engine. His powers are in fact so great that they threaten to break the story—as all-seeing, all-knowing types, whether in comic books or classic novels or religious texts, often threaten to do.
* * *
On some level, storytelling is the act of revealing information. To experience any narrative is to hear a mystery solved, and common plots are often quests for knowledge—how to save the world, the community, the self. So it’s striking that characters with the power to see things they haven’t personally experienced are legion in literary history, whether you look to mythology (Cassandra) or to pop entertainment (Professor Xavier in his Cerebro). Maybe that owes to a fundamental human desire to know the unknown. Maybe it’s also because of the oracle character’s usefulness as a narrative device, an easy way to close plot holes.
Certainly Bran’s powers help clarify the once-vexing question of what role he’s been meant to play all along. After providing the first gasp-worthy twist of Thrones when he was pushed from a tower in the series premiere, he’s rarely been a source of thrills. First, he convalesced; then, he underwent a long journey to the North for hazy supernatural reasons. Lately, after returning to his home of Winterfell and reuniting with his sisters, it seemed he might finally start affecting the larger storyline via clairvoyance. Instead, until the finale he just inspired memes about his stoner-like dialogue, his coldness toward loved ones, and his apparent refusal to use his powers to solve urgent problems.
All of which, in a way, should be very familiar: Bran is a trope. The often-criticized cliché of mystic disability—which explicitly or symbolically implies that bodily difference marks spiritual difference—has long been in full-force with Bran, who first began seeing visions once he lost the ability to walk. But some other common features of shamans, seers, and psychics are increasingly apparent: his cryptic-ness, his distance from those around him, his caginess about when and how to employ his powers. He’s the Yoda of Westeros.
The show explained these personality changes in the awkward farewell between Bran and Meera earlier in Season 7, during which Bran’s longtime companion said, “You died in that cave,” and he professed to not really be Bran Stark anymore. Cut him some slack, Thrones was saying—the ability to see all of the present and past would change you, too. (It’s not a theoretical matter, really. Are you quite the same person you were before Google was at your fingertips?)
But it’s also obvious that his character quirks serve a meta-narrative purpose. An omniscient hero could quickly sap the show of suspense, solving all problems and anticipating all threats with ease. To prevent that, Thrones took away Bran’s relatability as a human. No longer is he necessarily motivated by love of family, a sense of honor, or even self-preservation. Some other, murkier agenda is at work.
What’s more, the show has kept conveniently coy about the mechanics of Bran’s powers. In the finale scene with Samwell Tarly it seemed Bran’s visions had shown him who Jon’s parents were—but had not shown him that Jon’s father had his previous marriage annulled. It was only when Sam mentioned the annulment did Bran have the crucial flashback showing Jon as the rightful Targaryen heir. This suggests there are limits to Bran’s powers, gaps between what he’s able to know and what he has consciously chosen to learn.
Such haziness makes some sense within the story—he’s still getting a handle on his index—but it makes more sense for the integrity of the show: Bran, and hence the viewer, can’t solve every mystery all at once. You could argue that a better way to handle this situation would be for the show to lay out clear rules about how Bran’s sight works so that the audience can better understand what and when he gets to see. But all along, Thrones has shown little patience for explaining the system of magic underlying its world. (This is becoming more of an issue as supernatural forces move closer to the center of the story; see all the confusion about why the undead can’t find a way to kill six guys in the middle of a lake.)
Other oracle-like characters such as Melisandre and Thoros, it should be noted, also have been circumscribed by Thrones. Both serve the capricious Lord of Light, both clearly have limits on their powers, and both have been sent away from the main action at crucial moments (Thoros recently to the grave; Melisandre to Essos for most all of Season 7). The arms-distance treatment of such characters obviously helps the show tell its story, but it also fits with Thrones’s larger themes. Magic is a terrible thing, and the only thing that’s kept it from destroying the world till now has been its scarcity—which troublingly, over the course of the story, has started to become surfeit.
* * *
The “omniscient narrator,” in fiction storytelling, is the person relaying the tale who, it’s clear, knows everything that the characters and the reader might want to know (as opposed to, say, how in the Song of Ice and Fire books the reader experiences each chapter through the lens of a different character). Great omniscient narration can impart the scope and thematic cohesion of a Charles Dickens novel. Poor examples of it leave the reader feeling confused or manipulated for how information was doled out.
The map-spanning title sequence of Thrones winks at the idea of an omniscient narrator, but the series has in large part kept its camera aligned with the eyes of its characters. When we get a flashback, as with Cersei’s prophecy at the start of Season 5, it’s because someone is thinking about their past. But an increasingly widespread criticism of the show is that the uber-narrators—the showrunners—seem more driven by spectacle and business imperatives than by the desire to convincingly impart the feeling of characters experiencing a cause-and-effect universe. Note, for example, how the important action of Season 7’s Winterfell plotline, essentially a conspiracy among the Stark siblings, happened almost entirely off-camera—presumably so as to enable the season-finale reveal.
Bran’s omniscience gives the show’s writers more cover to cut corners. They can spell out the answer to the mystery of a character’s parentage whenever they now want, or they can reveal a villain’s crimes at the maximally dramatic moment, and they can simply say the revelation itself is part of the story thanks to the murky way Bran’s gift works. Fascinatingly, the potential pitfalls of having an omniscient character aren’t far off from the problem that philosophers and theologians have long debated about the notion of an omniscient god. When does a being who can see everything choose to act on its knowledge? Why not all the time?


The first sentence of Basket of Deplorables announces, “You can’t see me right now. Then again, I can’t see you either.” You can take the narrator, Georgina, literally: A recent head injury has left her blind, and adrift at a buzzing election-night party at a Tribeca loft where she feels increasingly alienated from the intellectuals, musicians, and n+1 editors in her social circle. But her statement applies to all five of Tom Rachman’s new stories, released on Audible in the U.S. and in book form in Britain and Australia. Set consciously in the current moment and a few years from now, the darkly satirical tales consider a broader kind of cultural myopia—one that afflicts conservatives and liberals alike.
There’s something inevitable, if not rote, in the first wave of cultural works responding to the Trump presidency. Most seem sprung from outrage or sheer incomprehension: “The nightmare is in high gear,” is how the playwright Tony Kushner described his in-progress play about Donald Trump to The Daily Beast. But even in this early phase, it’s apparent that the 45th president is as difficult a subject as he is irresistible. Neither satire nor fiction can adequately capture him. So writers might be wise to consider him obliquely, as Rachman does: as a presence in the room, not a focal point. Basket of Deplorables is less interested in Trump than in the people and factors that enabled his presidency, and sometimes not even in those. Its point is that Americans’ increasing polarization and suspicion of each other is leading to a place that could make even 2017 seem like halcyon days for humanity by comparison.
Pussy, the First Trump-Era Novel, Is a Brutal Satire
The world of the five stories is an intricate, interconnected one, with many of the various connections and hints only emerging on a second read. The first tale, from which the collection gets its name, is set on November 8, 2016, at a prototypically dazzling Manhattan soiree, where fashion designers mingle with cultural theory professors and Salvadoran waiters serve sumac-spiced appetizers raided from “the pages of Ottolenghi.” Georgina, the narrator, is a former photographer known for her caustic images of rock stars and artists; her good-natured partner, Roger, is a publisher who prides himself on his parties, where Henry Kissinger and Britney Spears might both be proffered as cultural curiosities for the left-leaning “hothouse intellectuals” in attendance.
Rachman’s portrait of how the evening unfolds could seem unsettlingly familiar. At first, the guests chat blithely about other things, safe in their shared knowledge that The New York Times’s website gives Hillary Clinton an 85-percent chance of victory. CNN is on in another room, since cable news is “too excruciatingly IQ-melting.” But as the news ekes out that Trump has won Ohio, then Wisconsin, then Pennsylvania, the mood in the room darkens. There are comments that Bernie Sanders would have won, or that Americans feel left behind, or that a large portion of the nation is simply “godawful.” But the twist in the story’s ending isn’t about Trump at all—it’s a revelation from Georgina that throws both her relationship and her liberal bona fides into question.
It’s a strange and unsatisfactory ending, at least until it’s expanded on a few stories later. Each primary character is revisited at least once, giving readers the sense of a world that’s increasingly claustrophobic and incestuous, where no two individuals can be unconnected. The story “Leakzilla,” set in Portland, imagines a hack of all the major email servers that publishes every private message ever sent. In this new landscape, the only unscathed citizens are the very old, the very young, the very poor, and the extremely paranoid. Amid this massive invasion of privacy, a new dating service has been established, HonrDate, where people commit to going out with each other without revealing their names, so no awkward revelations can be excavated before a first in-person encounter.
The premise is a terrific one, but it’s slightly undermined by the story itself, in which the narrator, Tim, pretends to be a Trump voter to impress his date, whose identity he’s figured out and whose personal emails he’s scoured. The meeting unfolds like a strange pas de deux, where neither seems willing, or able, to be honest about what they really believe. “Don’t you think,” Tim’s date asks, “privacy is actually the right to be different in different situations?” People, she observes, were nicer before the hack, maybe because “a little bit of fake is what’s required to be decent.” But once again, the encounter gains more dimension with a revelation in a later story, “How the End Begins,” in which Tim’s date’s sister stumbles upon a website that lists the future cause of death for all humans on Earth and seems to uncover a horrifying impending event.
Like most good speculative writers, Rachman seems nervous at the path technology is laying out for mankind. It’s a theme in the book that’s largely removed from the subject of Trump: Although the stories casually mention right-wing content farms, and oddballs “ in Kalamazoo or some such place blogging about how the Clintons molest baby pandas,” the more dire threats are bipartisan. After Leakzilla, Tim notes, each time a friend ghosts, you wonder, “Was it something I emailed?” And yet, it’s impossible to isolate the political ascendance of Trump, Rachman appears to argue, from an online climate that has rendered Americans’ worst impulses in more vivid clarity, while making them somehow more blinkered than ever.
The collection’s moral lessons are sometimes so subtle that you might miss them, and the ending of one story in particular is maddeningly opaque. But Rachman’s deft cultural references and his acute skewering of American culture make for uncomfortably precise satire. Sean Hannity pops up, leading a bombastic campaign to free an American arms dealer who fakes his own death; there are references to Alec Baldwin on Saturday Night Live, and “niche-huge” Netflix sitcoms, and the found poetry in auto-filled Google searches. The lone unconvincing voice in the five stories is that of a Wharton MBA grad and a horrendous bully who overuses “terrific” and “fantastic” and brags about how popular he is. Somehow, in fiction, the cadences are just too absurd to be true.


Since first moving into original programming in 2012, Netflix has gone from a fringe curiosity to a major player in film and TV, actually living up to the mantle of “disruptor” that so many tech companies try to claim. But even by that standard, the last few months have been a whirlwind, with Netflix making several of its biggest acquisitions yet: securing a deal with the juggernaut TV producer Shonda Rhimes, luring David Letterman out of retirement, buying Jerry Seinfeld’s Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee series, giving the green light to shows by the Coen brothers and Steven Soderbergh, and optioning an entire comic-book brand (the indie Millarworld, which birthed the cult-favorite film Kick-Ass).
In a recent, wide-ranging interview with Variety, Netflix’s chief content officer Ted Sarandos made it clear the company had no plans to let up: It’s looking to increase its original offerings until they make up half of the service’s entire library, aiming to spend $7 billion on content next year. Reading Sarandos’s comments, it’s clearer that the phrase that’s been used to describe this era of abundant television—“Peak TV”—is only part of the picture. We’re really in an era of Peak Netflix, where the company is launching such an unprecedented volume of new programming that its more traditional rivals have to choose between spending into oblivion or possibly having their shows swamped.
What Netflix Can Offer Shonda Rhimes
Netflix has seen its share of flops in the last couple years. The Naomi Watts-starring drama Gypsy, one of its big 2017 launches, was quickly canceled, as was the comedy Girlboss. Expensive epic TV shows like The Get Down and Sense8 struggled to click with a wide audience and were canceled early. And while other 2017 offerings like Santa Clarita Diet, Friends From College, and Ozark secured renewals, each debuted to mixed reviews and couldn’t quite capture the zeitgeist. The same goes for the company’s original films, which so far have failed to crack the Oscar market.
But for all those misses, Netflix has had plenty of hits, some unsurprising (its stable of Marvel shows), some more so (the teen-suicide drama 13 Reasons Why, the 1980s female wrestling dramedy Glow). Even bigger is Stranger Things, one of the very few TV programs that rivals Game of Thrones as a genuine “water-cooler” hit, cutting through the glut of niche TV. Netflix’s strategy is to get these shows by casting a massive net; risk-taking, in Sarandos’s eyes, is much more appealing than releasing a hit every time.
“Every one of our creative executives has buying power,” Sarandos told Variety, revealing just how drastically his company’s programming model differs from that of a traditional TV network. “They can greenlight a big-budget show in the room without me.” In upending the hermetic pilot process—where networks lock creators into producing a pilot episode of their shows without any guarantee it’ll go to series—Netflix can move much quicker than most and make bigger commitments to brand-name creators like Rhimes. The company spent $5 billion on content in 2016 and $6 billion in 2017, and will up that figure next year.
When the FX Networks chief John Landgraf coined the phrase “Peak TV” in 2015, he was talking to television critics about the explosion in scripted shows in recent years, which grew from about 180 in the early 2000s to 455 in 2016. “[The business] is in the late stages of a bubble. We’re seeing a desperate scrum. ... There is simply too much television,” Landgraf told the press. Since then, the number of scripted shows has plateaued in the world of basic and premium cable, but streaming networks are continuing to increase production.
To Landgraf, “Peak TV” was a dire warning. To Sarandos, it’s a marketing tactic, a way to keep Netflix at the forefront in a rapidly changing industry. When companies like HBO and FX broke into original TV in the early 2000s, they did so by making sure every new show was an event, after years of development. With its ambitious 2018 release schedule, Netflix is moving much more quickly. Sarandos’s biggest fear is not the amount of money he’s spending, but that Netflix will be a victim of its own success. “The more successful we get, the more anxious I get about the willingness of the networks to license their stuff to us,” he told Variety, acknowledging that the company still needs a base of older, licensed material to keep subscribers on board.
The company’s tactics have been far less popular in the film world, where some creators (like Christopher Nolan) regard Netflix as an enemy of the theater experience. Sarandos is unabashed about his desire to change the movie-release model. “I don’t think we compete with Amazon in the movie space at all,” he said, referring to Amazon’s habit of giving films wide releases, then hosting them exclusively online many months later. “I frankly don’t understand their strategy. I don’t understand why perpetuating a model that feels more and more disconnected with the population is good.”
That’s what’s impressive (or terrifying, depending on who you work for) about Sarandos’s future plans. Within five years, television has changed from the prescribed September-to-May schedule that has existed since the birth of the medium to a never-ending blitz of new shows that networks struggle to keep up with. And even though Netflix hasn’t toppled the similarly staid film calendar as quickly, it could mark the beginning of the end for movie theaters, if the company’s success so far with TV is anything to go by.


This post contains spoilers through Season 7, Episode 7 of Game of Thrones.
“Out of all the people in Thrones, Jon, of all people, is probably the least up for incest,” Kit Harington told Entertainment Tonight last month. “But we don’t know whether they’re related.”
The actor was talking about the romantic tension between his character, Jon Snow, and Daenerys Targaryen—a tension that Game of Thrones, sometimes gracefully and sometimes awkwardly, has been meticulously building over the course of its seventh season. It’s been a tension complicated by the fact that while, as Harrington suggested, viewers didn’t know for sure whether the two were related … we have also been preeeeetty sure that the two are related. Sunday’s episode, “The Dragon and the Wolf,” confirmed it: Jon is not, in fact, the illegitimate son of Ned Stark; he is in fact the legitimate son of Ned’s sister, Lyanna, and her husband Rhaegar Targaryen. Who was also the older brother of one Daenerys Targaryen. Which would, yep, make Jon Snow, né Aegon Targaryen … Dany’s nephew. Which would make the consummation of their attraction, as one of the final scenes of the season … extremely complicated.
What Did Game of Thrones Accomplish This Year?
Game of Thrones is a show that has depicted slaughtered children, and sexual violence, and martial violence, and torture both psychological and physical; it is a show that, often, looks at conventional notions of morality and scoffs at their quaintness. Incest in some ways is no different: It’s a taboo that Thrones has generally regards with a mixture of horror and shoulder-shrugging acceptance. Dany herself is the product of incest—her parents were brother and sister—as were Joffrey, Myrcella, Tommen, and Cersei’s (alleged) unborn child. Cersei and Jaime represent one of the longest-standing romantic partnerships of the series. Gilly is both the mother and the half-sister of baby Sam. Yara Greyjoy, having not seen Theon since they were children, initially flirted with him—an elaborate prank meant primarily to remind her brother of his diminished power on the Iron Islands.
Incest lurks everywhere in this world. And while it is sometimes treated as a moral failing (Cersei and Jaime, together, have never been paragons of anything save for savvy accessorizing), it is also, often, treated as a political one. Incest, in Thrones, is a situation that is also a metaphor—for what happens when people get too insular, too myopic, too unwilling to see beyond themselves. It is the Westermarck effect, gone terribly wrong. It is a warning about what can befall the world when narcissism gets politically weaponized.
Dany and her nephew Jon come from a long line of people who, having “the blood of the dragon,” were reluctant to marry outside that line, thus diluting the blood in question. That’s one of the many ways Game of Thrones’s history parallels the real world’s: Incest, of course, was once common, particularly among nobility. It is thought that King Tut suffered from an array of physical maladies brought on by at least two successive generations’ worth of interfamilial marriages. Charles II, the last of the Spanish Habsburgs, suffered from disabilities that came from 16 generations of inbreeding. Charles Darwin married his first cousin; his work on inbred plants led him to fear that the couple’s children, seven of whom survived into adulthood, would suffer the ill effects of the familial connection.
Historically, then, in the known world and beyond its continents, incest has given rise to a sweeping bit of hubris: People’s attempt to preserve their blood lines ended up, often, compromising them. The practice that took its name from the Latin incestus (“unchaste, impure”) ended up proving itself all too literally.
Whether Dany and Jon will have children—children who might in their own way fall victim to this sad irony—is an open question. For now, their union has made for one of Game of Thrones’s more twisted plot twists. As Alan Taylor, the director of several of the show’s episodes, including last week’s “Beyond the Wall,” told The Daily Beast: “There’s no secret that this is where this is going. Readers of the book have known that things were heading towards this destination for a while. Even the characters in this story know it’s heading in this direction.” Some fans cheered the movement of “Jonerys” from the realm of fanfic and into the realm of, simply, fic. Others gagged at it. Others were simply confused by it. (So much so that Newsweek, in a nod to the inevitable, recently enlisted the help of a psychosexual therapist to reassure fans that “there’s nothing wrong with you for wanting to see aunt and uncle get it on.”)
The reactions have been as mixed as they are in part for the simple reason that Jon and Dany are not Jaime and Cersei. They are good people, fundamentally. They grew up separately, in different places and different worlds. And, of course: They do not currently know that they are related. There are Luke-and-Leia vibes to the courtship between the last of the Targaryens; they are protected, in some sense, by their ignorance. And their relationship, as such, seems primed to provoke, rather than outrage or disgust, something simpler: questions—about intimacy, and its expanses, and its limits.
That puts the relationship between Dany and Jon in league with other such relationships in literature—which are often calibrated to be scandalous, yes, but which are just as often calibrated simply to be complicated. They may provoke judgment; they also, however, often demand sympathy. Chris and Cathy, in Flowers in the Attic, are victims of abuse at the hands of an evil grandmother. Emmeline and Richard in The Blue Lagoon are victims of a shipwreck and its attendant isolation. Little Charles and Ivy in August: Osage County are the victims of ignorance: They sort of understand their relationship to each other. And also they very much do not understand their relationship to each other.
Some literary portrayals treat incest as a profound—perhaps the profound—violation of the order of things: In One Hundred Years of Solitude, the members of the Buendía family live in constant fear that the results of their intermarriages will come to haunt them (in this case, via children born with the tails of pigs). In John Irving’s The Hotel New Hampshire, John and Franny’s intimacy gives way to an incestuous encounter. In James Ellroy’s White Jazz, the protagonist David Klein harbors an incestuous attraction to his sister. In Jeffrey Eugenides’s Middlesex, the narrator’s grandparents were siblings. There is often a cyclical inevitability to these stories: a sense of mistakes made in one generation, transmitted to another. A sense of destabilization at the most fundamental levels. A sense of doom. In the Harry Potter series, Voldemort is descended from a family in which cousins regularly marry.
But other portrayals—in American pop culture, in particular—use relationships between siblings and pseudo-siblings as vehicles through which to examine anxieties: about intimacy, about otherness, about the state of the modern family. Maeby and George-Michael in Arrested Development. Cher and Josh in Clueless. Margot and Richie in The Royal Tenenbaums. Kathryn and Sebastian in Cruel Intentions. Dexter and Debra in Dexter. Even Greg and Marcia Brady in A Very Brady Sequel—an on-screen coupling that poked fun at the very real fling between Maureen McCormick (Marcia) and Barry Williams (Greg).
The treatments of incest here range from the tragic to the taunting; what they have in common, though, is the same thing that makes the shipping of Dany and Jon so uniquely bizarre and, from a literary perspective, compelling: They blur lines. They occasionally poke fun. They often poke holes. They suggest, overall, a world that is much more complicated than it might initially seem to be.
In Thrones’s case, as the show moves into its final season, it has managed to set up conditions in which Dany and Jon are complicated in part by the fact that they are at once people and allegories: They are both lovers and rivals, both new acquaintances and lifelong relatives. They suggest order in the world and, now, the threats against it. “The Dragon and the Wolf” is a paradox, because the dragon and the wolf, it turns out, are one and the same. In one way, definitely, the couple’s newfound intimacy puts the “ewwwww” in “newfound”; it is the rough equivalent of the horror-movie character who, not being privy to the full picture, decides to open that door. More than that, though, their romance is a slow-moving tragedy. Because, in Thrones’s final season, Dany and Jon will very probably learn the truth. They will very likely suffer—through no fault of their own, but because of the failings of their fathers. They, the next generation of Targaryens, will be punished for the attitudes of those who carried the blood of the dragon and decided, despite it all, to keep it in the family.


In pop, as in other arenas, conflict is the quickest way to cause conversation, as MTV’s Video Music Awards well know. At Sunday night’s ceremony, Taylor Swift didn’t show up for a confrontation with Katy Perry like she’d been suspected to, but she did premiere a sour, super-meta music video about the small scandals of her career. Remy Ma, the rapper who’s let the latest phase of her public career be dominated by a war of words with Nicki Minaj, took the couple seconds of screen time she got to, once again, mention Minaj. The girl group Fifth Harmony opened their performance by having a body double fall off stage: a symbolic middle finger to Camila Cabello, who left the band last year.
These moments were lowlights (though, okay, it was hard not to laugh at the Fifth Harmony thing). Not only did they show a generation of stars simply recycling their own fame rather than coming up with fresh sources of inspiration, they displayed pettiness that feels extra cynical given the difficult national moment. The more memorable developments of the VMAs connected to issues outside of the room and offered surprising uplift. While it’s true that pop music has traded in easy empowerment and obvious sloganeering for a while now, a few figures last night found ways to speak on the issues of the day with new urgency.
Who Killed Taylor Swift?
Pink, the perennially under-hyped hitmaker of the 2000s, accepted MTV’s Video Vanguard Award with an impressive medley that featured a levitating car and some shockingly poignant dance. But it was her acceptance speech that’ll endure. She told a story about her 6-year-old daughter feeling “ugly” for looking “like a boy,” and Pink—butch icon that she is—replying by pointing to David Bowie, Prince, Janis Joplin, Annie Lennox, and others as examples of fabulous famous androgyny. The speech landed because of the way that it lifted from her own life to lightly comment on larger current issues about nonconformity, sexism, and acceptance. Less subtle: the ribbon she wore that read, “Fump Truck!”

Even more blunt-force messaging came from the rising rapper Logic, who made an undeniably powerful statement against suicide. His track “1-800-273-8255” shouts out the national crisis hotline, and last night he delivered it with featured vocalists Khalid and Alessia Cara while surrounded by survivors of suicide attempts and people who’d lost loved ones to suicide. Statistics show self-harm to be on the rise among young people, and cultural obsessions such as 13 Reasons Why and the recent deaths of the rockers Chester Bennington and Chris Cornell have kept the issue front of mind (Jared Leto memorialized both musicians in a speech last night). Some of the participants were in tears throughout the performance; plenty of viewers surely were too.

A remarkable portion late in the show turned almost fully from pop to politics to address the fallout from the violence in Charlottesville. Reverend Robert Lee IV, a descendent of the Confederate general Robert E. Lee, took to the stage saying, “We have made my ancestor an idol of white supremacy, racism, and hate. As a pastor, it is my moral duty to speak out against racism, America’s original sin.” He then introduced Susan Bro, the mother of Heather Heyer, the woman killed by the car attack in Charlottesville. Speaking at surprising length and with significant composure, she announced the formation of a scholarship foundation in her daughter’s name and praised the winner of the VMA for Best Fight Against the System—a category for videos with a social message.

Elsewhere, performers broke through the slog of the night with memorable creative concepts: Lorde refrained from singing her song “Homemade Dynamite” to instead give a charming-weird interpretive dance; Kendrick Lamar opened the show flanked by ninja warriors climbing a flaming trellis; Alessia Cara changed from a glamorous gown to plain black comfywear while performing her body-positivity anthem “Scars to Your Beautiful”; Miley Cyrus played Elvis impersonator with a group of geriatric dancers.
Uncomfortably overseeing all of this was the host Katy Perry, feigning a doofus, semi-woke persona throughout the night. Her shtick was that she’d supposedly been in outer space for a while and had missed all the news headlines of the past year: a set-up for some very mild jokes about Donald Trump’s Twitter feed and the already-forgotten PR catastrophe that was the Fyre Festival. The truth was the audience didn’t need such winking, cutesy, tentative stabs at connecting with the wider world. The highlights of the night plenty demonstrated the power of speaking frankly about what’s happening back on Earth.


Every week for the seventh season of Game of Thrones, three Atlantic staffers have been discussing new episodes of the HBO drama. Because no screeners were made available to critics in advance this year, we’ll be posting our thoughts in installments.
David Sims: In the end, I was tricked by the shorter season length, the extra-long wait for the show to come back, and the extended running times of the episodes. I forgot that this season of Game of Thrones was the penultimate one, a mere table-setter for the real war to come … next year. That isn’t to say the Season 7 finale wasn’t full of big plot turns—it absolutely was. Jon and Daenerys formally sealed their alliance, both militarily and romantically, just as Bran decided to spill the beans about Jon’s true parentage. Jaime finally turned his back on his sister, just as she fomented a drastic battle plan for survival. Littlefinger got his comeuppance, once and for all. And the Wall finally came down, after several thousand years of doing its job (that is to say, not falling down).
And yet, after all this chaos, after the burning of the loot trains, the loss of a dragon, and so much more death and destruction, it somehow doesn’t feel like that much has changed since the end of last season (when the truth about Jon’s birth was first confirmed). Daenerys is still waiting offshore, trying to decide how she wants to conquer. The Night’s King and his army of the dead are still approaching, having finally (after seven seasons!) made it to the top of Westeros. Cersei is still stewing at King’s Landing, plotting to rule a continent simply for power’s sake. And Jon is still as stubbornly noble as ever, resolute in his mission to stop the White Walkers but only by the most honorable means possible.
Is Game of Thrones on Thin Ice?
Put shortly, I confess to feeling a little cheated by this extra-long season finale of Game of Thrones, even though I was broadly satisfied with its biggest story decisions. It was especially strange that the first half of the action existed only as a sort of long con, with the second half basically refuting everything that had come before. No, Euron didn’t really flee to the Iron Islands with his tail between his legs. No, Cersei won’t really be allying with Daenerys. No, Sansa hasn’t actually been won over by Littlefinger’s plotting. No, David Benioff and D.B. Weiss haven’t totally thrown the internal logic of their characters out the window.
But then why did we have to suffer through that drawn-out negotiation scene, in which it took 25 minutes of screen time before the Hound revealed the contents of their lockbox (a screaming wight), and another 20 minutes more before Cersei falsely claimed that she would ally with the hated Daenerys to conquer the northern threat? There were some nice character reunions—like Tyrion and Pod—and some more frightening ones—the Hound and the Mountain, whose enmity remains unresolved—but apart from that, it was a whole lotta talk and no action.
The idea, I think, is to underline what a masterful game-player Cersei has become, tricking even her conniving brother Tyrion into thinking that she’s developed a sense of altruism because of her unborn child. No, instead Cersei’s brilliant scheme is to do nothing while Jon and Daenerys try to deal with the zombies themselves. If Cersei is so clever, though, I wish her ultimate goal were a little harder to poke holes in, as Jaime does pretty effortlessly, pointing out that whoever wins the northern battle will more than likely overwhelm Cersei’s seriously depleted forces (which now consist of Euron the madman, the mercenary Golden Company, and whatever Lannister and Tyrell bannermen haven’t been cooked alive by dragonfire).
Cersei is about as smart as Jon, who this season has cost Daenerys a dragon in service of the silliest recon mission ever and in return won her exactly zero more troops to fight the White Walkers with. His pivotal moment this episode, refusing to pledge neutrality in the coming war, was classic Jon—chivalrous but not very political, and his next move—bedding Daenerys before a legal marriage—was even dumber, and that’s before Bran’s casual revelation (to Sam of all people) that Jon’s real name is Aegon Targaryen, and he’s Daenerys’s nephew.
As a longtime fan of the books, I can’t deny feeling a certain delighted tingle on hearing Lyanna Stark whisper the name Aegon or on watching her marriage to Daenerys’s brother Rhaegar. These are things book readers have speculated on for so many years, and they’re among the few plot twists I can safely assume will end up in George R. R. Martin’s last books, if he ever does write them. As a fan of the show, it felt a little too cutesy—with Jon and Daenerys’s union, in particular, feeling rushed toward an obvious conclusion, ever so slightly unearned (though maybe I’m just holding Jon responsible over the death of the dragon, which Daenerys isn’t).
That was Season 7 of Game of Thrones in a nutshell: a weird combination of its story feeling both sped up and stalled out, with Benioff and Weiss giving the viewers bombastic set-pieces in between countless scenes with maddeningly circular dialogue. We’re finally ready for the end times, but I’ve been ready ever since Daenerys took her troops across the Narrow Sea. In the end, this was the season of the White Walkers, the show’s most visually striking, but narratively inert villains, marching ever closer to an inevitable conclusion. That’s what we’ve done this year. I can only hope Season 8 offers something more human—and more surprising.
Lenika Cruz: I’m really sad to say that “The Dragon and the Wolf” ranks somewhere near the bottom of Thrones episodes for me, and certainly at the bottom of Thrones finales. While “The Dragon and the Wolf” had some really big, powerful moments—Littlefinger falling off the ladder of chaos and into a pool of his own blood, Jaime walking away from a livid Cersei, the flashback to Rhaegar and Lyanna’s marriage, the Wall coming down, Daenerys arriving in King’s Landing with her dragons, Jon Not-Sand and Dany doing what Targaryens do best—it was frustrating to see them delivered in an episode rife with loose ends, characters making gallingly dumb choices, bad dialogue, and lazy storytelling.
Some would argue these problems have plagued Thrones all season, if not for longer—especially since Benioff and Weiss have been trying to make do with the rough outline Martin gave them for the series’s end. And we could debate the extent to which these issues have seriously hurt the show (from a narrative, not ratings, angle, of course). In general, if I’m enjoying myself during an episode, I tend not to fixate on the imperfections. But for the first time, I am seriously questioning the strength of the foundation Thrones sits upon. Not everything worked for me this season, but a lot of it did, up until last week’s “Beyond the Wall.” At the time, I went a bit easier on the episode than David and Spencer did. Yes, the kidnap-a-wight plan was absurd, and the speed with which a team of supposedly scrupulous people agreed to it bewildering, but it had the possibility to be cool in execution. Rewatches soured me on the episode even more, leading me to wonder if watching the seams come apart with “Beyond the Wall” destroyed my suspension of disbelief going into the finale.
As you smartly pointed out, David, the first half of the episode consisted of major characters making questionable decisions that were later revealed, with less of an “A-ha!” than maybe hoped, to be masks for other, more reasonable, decisions. The Dragonpit summit struck me as something that should have been compelling in theory (all these major characters in the same place at the same time!), but it nonetheless left me deflated thanks both to the minimal build-up and the unbelievable neatness of it all. The show tried to telegraph its awareness of how awkward and futile-seeming the whole exchange was (“We are a group of people who do not like one another,” Tyrion helpfully acknowledged), but those efforts rang false, much like the previous episode’s attempts to comment on its foolish-hero storyline. Still, one of the best Dragonpit moments was the brutal, near-scientific, presentation of the wight-in-the-box: It was more effective and frightening than I thought it would be, prompting even Cersei’s stoic mug to express actual fear.
I tried to stay on board, but then came Jon’s horribly timed display of Starkian chivalry, which we were supposed to believe was enough to make Cersei forget how terrified she was just two seconds ago about an army of zombies. It made no sense to me why Dany wouldn’t have briefed her Hand on the fact that Jon had bent the knee for her—something she should have done especially before heading into negotiations with a rival. The situation reminded me of Jon and Sansa conveniently not getting on the same page about Winterfell matters in private, seemingly as a way to engineer scenes of tension with the northern lords. In the end, Jon agreeing to extend the truce wouldn’t have made a difference; either way, Cersei would have been playing them. But his decision struck me as a superficial ploy—to derail talks and create an excuse for Tyrion to meet with Cersei alone. (Much like the wight mission seemed like a not-so-subtle one to give the White Walkers their ice dragon.)
If, as you noted, David, this episode did a poor job of rationalizing Cersei’s duplicity, it did at least make clear that this woman who so fetishizes the notion of family has virtually no family left. My sense is that she’s all but certainly lying about her pregnancy: With no real, living children left for her to protect, she’s now using a fake, phantom child to protect her—a twisted, but on-brand, bit of manipulation for Cersei. And while she couldn’t quite bring herself to murder her brothers (each called her bluff), she’ll also go into early next season without their trust. The way things ended between her and Jaime, I can finally see a path clearing for him to become a Queenslayer (something I really thought would happen this year, but oh well).
As for Sansa and Arya in the north—the reveal that they were working together all along against Littlefinger was the only payoff that would have been satisfying given the rampant confusion that thread stirred. Nearly everyone I talked to about last week had very different, shaky interpretations of the “rivalry,” but in a post-show interview the creators suggested Thrones had tricked fans into thinking Arya and Sansa might really try to murder each other. (The show did not.) Seeing Littlefinger meet his end after a season of irrelevance—and finally seeing the Stark girls behave like we’d expect and hope them to—was a relief. It was nice, too, to see Bran finally make his visions useful (That’s So Three-Eyed Raven), although he was far too late in the case of Jon and Dany, who engaged in an act whose name, if it exists, is less punny than “twincest.”
I could spend a while complaining about the dialogue (Bronn and Jaime’s interminable conversation about cocks; Brienne’s uncharacteristic “Fuck loyalty!”; Sansa telling Arya, “You’re still very strange and annoying”; everyone robotically repeating some variation of “We’re fucked”) and the loose ends (How’s Grey Worm doing? Are we to assume that Theon doing some good punching constitutes a redemption arc?) But mostly, I just want to be way more excited for Season 8 than “The Dragon and the Wolf” left me. I can’t help but compare this finale to Season 6’s “The Winds of Winter,” which managed to be terrific even though the creators were out of source material. I don’t want to think the show is doomed to be a less-good version of itself without Martin’s books as a guide, though it might well be. But for all my frustration, not even the Night King (who, let’s be honest, looked like a huge dork sitting on Ice Viserion) or a good look at Ser Gregor’s face could scare me away from watching six more episodes and seeing Thrones through to the end.
Megan Garber: Given some of the events of “The Dragon and the Wolf,” and given how down you guys are on this episode, I should maybe say at the outset: I’m totally not kidding. I really liked this episode! No Cersei-ing, promise! The episode left me riveted. It left me feeling more confident that this story might actually be going somewhere good as it heads toward its conclusion. It struck me as satisfying both in the ends it tied up and in the new ones it unfurled.
Partially, okay, yes, that may be because of one very particular thing this hour-and-a-half of television accomplished, which is that “The Dragon and the Wolf”—too late, but finally—rid the world of Petyr Baelish. (And while we’re gathered, let us all hope together that those savvy Winterfellians burned his body, because I can take a lot from this show, but I definitely cannot take an ice-zombified Littlefinger.) I agree, Lenika, his demise was a relief: Old “chaos is a ladder” finally reached the point beyond which he could climb no more, and now his watch is ended, and while what is dead may never die … I really, really hope he is dead for good.
But the de-Baelishization of Westeros isn’t the only reason I’m on Team Dragonwolf. I also appreciated, overall, all the fake-outery afoot in this episode. This season has been, on top of everything else, a really fascinating (I think) meditation on the dynamics of belief, and trust, and faith—when it comes to existential threats, and when it comes to geopolitical strategy, and also when it comes to other people. The whole Wight-in-the-Box storyline was definitely absurd at points—last week, for one of them—but it also existed as an acknowledgement of what it takes to make people believe: For Cersei to trust in the particular kind of magic the Night King represents, she’d need to see it first-hand. She’d need to be terrified by it, in person. She’d need to be threatened, first-hand.
And, so, Daenerys and her group, like some masterful product-pitchers on Shark Tank, created a presentation, complete at the end with a flaming zombie-hand, that was dramatic and compelling and basically presented itself. Cersei, of course, should have totally invested.
To me, though, it was also fitting that the Season 7 finale would complicate those broader ideas by getting the show back to one of its oldest and most reliable themes: good, old-fashioned lies. The simplistic strain of dishonesty that got Ned Stark killed after Joffrey went back on his word, and that led to the Red Wedding, and that was so much a part of the show before it got much more complicated in its considerations. “Some day you’ll sit on the throne and the truth will be what you make it,” Cersei told Joffrey back in Season 1. She is now living the predicate of that prediction—only Cersei is the one engaged in the truth-making. She’s the one destabilizing the world by refusing to operate according to the most basic kind of honor there is: honesty.
Arya and Sansa, too, engaged in a kind of lie when it came to Littlefinger. The circularity of their revenge was simplistic, sure—they faked out the ultimate faker, in an elaborate ruse—but I actually appreciated the tidiness of the whole thing. (Plus, the show succeeded in faking me out with that team-up twist: I’d been thinking that Arya had already killed Littlefinger and was simply Faceless Man-ing him in that cool exchange with Sansa—a circular return to the beginning of the season, with Arya’s pretending to be Walder Frey. I was pleasantly surprised to realize that I, too, had been fooled.) Game of Thrones has (generally) been thoughtful about revenge and justice and the interplay between the two, and here was Sansa, in particular, having seen so much and survived so much, getting a fitting kind of vengeance against the man who has been such a constant source of manipulation and instability in her life. Thank you for all your many lessons, Sansa tells Littlefinger, her coldness a call-back to the way she dispatched Ramsay Bolton to his dogs. And then her sister slaughtered him.
I definitely agree that there were some scoping problems as all this played out—the way, as you said, David, the sped-up and the stalled-out collided—but I actually didn’t mind that here as much as I have in past episodes. The speed and slowness struck me as better earned in this episode than they did in previous ones. And they seemed, in the context of “The Dragon and the Wolf,” like fitting reflections of a show that has been compelling in part for its ability to tangle the soaring and the small. I loved those little moments of wry humanity you pointed out, Lenika: Sansa’s note to Arya that “you’re still very strange and annoying,” that tiny but meaningful little glance exchanged between Brienne and the Hound. (There is much smizing in Westeros, at the moment!) Bronn dismisses the headliners of Wightapalooza and “the clever words that come out their pie holes” and Tyrion replies, quietly, “It’s good to see you again.” That kind of thing—the soft moments against the hard ones—gets me every time.  
But those moments also work on a thematic level. Love is often, in this show, presented as a political complication—imagine what might have happened had Robb Stark not fallen for Talisa, or had Tyrion not fallen for Shae, or had the Lannister twins remained siblings alone—and the finale set up conditions where romantic love, in particular, might either save humanity … or (oof) contribute to its demise. “The Dragon and the Wolf” solidified what we already basically knew about Jon’s true parentage; that means he is now romantically involved with not only his aunt, but also his (potential) rival for the throne. It means there’s a chance, going into the show’s final season, that Dany and Jon will at some point have to choose between each other and something greater than either of them: political power, perhaps, or salvation itself. Or maybe love, in the end, will adopt a more Nolanian dimension: Maybe it will be the force that breaks the wheel. Maybe what we’re headed toward is the two houses, the Targaryens and the Starks, joining forces in the most literal of ways—Daenerys and Aegon, the rulers of the Andals and the First Men, the protectors of the realms, the breakers of chains, the parents of dragons.


By midnight, we were good and ready. Boxers had been slugging away all evening, but it was Gervonta ‘Tank’ Davis, in the junior-lightweight contest that immediately preceded the main event, who brought at last the requisite note of wildness and transgression. Davis, approximately two feet tall, is a teetering, veering energy cone with an expression of sealed hostility and neck tattoos. Having already lost his belt by failing to make weight, and wearing shorts trimmed with fur of the smurfiest blue, he put in a scattered and rhythm-less shift against the hardwearing underdog Francisco Fonseca, finally laying him low with an illegal clout around the back of the head that appeared not to have stunned Fonseca so much as perforated his morale, or disgusted him completely: He sank to his knees and stayed there, like a seminarian having a nervous breakdown. Hooray for the sport of boxing!
And now: Here it was. This preposterous, Trump-ish thing was about to happen. As in an anxiety dream, a man was about to step into the ring, before an audience of millions, and participate in his first ever boxing match—against Floyd Mayweather. “I’m calm, comfortable,” recited Conor McGregor auto-hypnotically in his dressing room. “I see me truly outclassing this man and putting him to sleep.” He actually did look sort of calm: a lot calmer, anyway, than the screaming, dehydrated, sunken-eyed nutcase (with an apparent erection) that he had been at the weigh-in the day before. Restored now to something like his proper weight, McGregor lounged sleek and insouciant as they wrapped his hands, taking sips, as it were, of his own magnificence. Second-round knockout, perhaps, Conor? “I may stretch it a little bit longer.” As the whim took him.
Four Ways of Looking at Mayweather vs. McGregor
There was, of course, no way that he could pull it off. Take out Floyd “Money” Mayweather, evasive and cold-blooded ringmaster, supreme cynical manager of pugilistic risk? Not a chance. But what if ... ? Might he ... ? How about that tree-felling left fist of his? This is what Conor McGregor does: He bends our expectations to his will, like Uri Geller bending a spoon. And, for a few rubbery and deranged-feeling minutes at the beginning of the fight, there did seem to be a small but leaping possibility that he might have—if not psyched out his opponent—then perturbed him at some level. Crouched behind the turret of his raised guard, moving in a cramped and tight-shouldered shuffle, Mayweather was doing absolutely nothing. He threw four punches in the first round. McGregor, by contrast, was vibrantly busy, bouncing around in his fighting-Irish stance and whipping up chances from the broad and magically protected zone in front of him. His right hand was out, pawing, dabbing affectionately at Mayweather while his left hovered and looked for a target. At one point he caught him cleanly with a counter-uppercut. (“That was intriguing,” noted a ringside commentator.)
Round one, round two, round three, round four ... So this was Conor McGregor, boxing. No hook kicks, no takedowns, a drastic restriction of his capacities—although now and again he would incur the referee Robert Byrd’s displeasure by drubbing the top of Mayweather’s dome with an MMA-style “hammer fist.” His legal punches were landing, though. “Lovely shots,” said his coach John Kavanagh after the eighth round. (McGregor’s corner was ablaze with dapperness, the whole team shirtsleeved and waistcoated like angelic bartenders.) And Mayweather, for his part, continued to do almost nothing. He lumbered uncharacteristically forward, and then turned his back. The details, the angles, seemed to be escaping him. What was going on? Had the sheer freakishness and openness of McGregor's style disrupted his game? Was an upset in the offing?
Uh, no. The apparition of McGregor’s dominance turned out to be an illusion produced by the extreme boringness of the Mayweather gameplan, which was: Wait until he gets tired, and then knock him over. And after 25 minutes of suspending the world’s disbelief, Conor McGregor got tired. He slowed down. His chest—tattooed with a crowned gorilla eating somebody’s heart—rose and fell in vast sighs. At which point Mayweather accelerated, popped out his combinations, and rocked McGregor repeatedly until Byrd stopped it in the tenth. The technical knockout gave the undefeated Mayweather his historic 50th win. In the post-fight interview, McGregor lamented the stoppage—“I get like that when I’m tired. ... Let me wobble back to me corner!"—but appeared otherwise satisfied. Elated, even. And why not? He was still alive, he was undisgraced by the battle just concluded, and he was richer and more famous than ever. “Some buzz,” he said. Let him wobble back to his corner.


Two brothers, Eddie and Emile, sit in the small room they share, each on his own bed. Emile wants to watch a soap on TV. Eddie, a devout Seventh-Day Adventist, asks him to use headphones so he won’t have to hear the TV on the Sabbath. Fine—in theory. But the headphones are too short to use while on the bed, so Emile takes them off. Eddie, who remembers soap operas playing in his violent childhood home, turns off the TV. Emile turns it back on. The tension continues for days, escalating beyond electronics: Eddie stops showering in protest. Emile starts smoking on his bed. “You’re gonna kill me with cancer!” Eddie shouts at his brother. “Fratricide! Fratricide!” their next-door neighbor yells.
Emile and Eddie aren’t just brothers sharing a room; they’re also inmates sharing a cell. The scene is recounted—by the brothers themselves—in the first episode of the podcast network Radiotopia’s show Ear Hustle, which launched in June and will run through October. The brilliant series is a collaboration between the inmates Earlonne Woods and Antwan Williams and the prison volunteer Nigel Poor, and it is conceived, recorded, and produced from inside of San Quentin State Prison. The show addresses legislative issues through the personal narratives of inmates and highlights the universal experiences shared by those who are incarcerated and those who are not. “Everything that happens in prison happens on the outside,” Poor told me. “We really wanted it to be an outside/inside production in every way.”
The 30-minute, biweekly documentary series sheds light (or rather, sound) on lives that remain largely hidden from those on the outside. Of the 2.3 million people incarcerated in the United States, 1.3 million of them are in state prisons like San Quentin—yet contemporary first-person accounts of prison life can be hard to find. Ear Hustle and shows like it return some of the humanity that the carceral system removes and provide a link between inmates and outsiders.
Ear Hustle is credited as the first podcast to be created entirely in prison, but it fits into a broader legacy of prison-born audio shows. As the writer Annie Brown wrote in her 2016 California Sunday Magazine article on the history of prison-audio production in the U.S., the first radio show produced in prison began airing in 1938, and in the mid-1980s, inmates at Louisiana State Penitentiary established what they claimed was the first licensed radio station inside a prison. The long-running program Radio Diaries also did a four-part series about the criminal-justice system that originally aired on NPR in 2001. In it, inmates, correctional officers, and a judge kept audio diaries for six months, recording, as the show’s website says, “the sounds and scenes of everyday life behind bars: shakedowns, new inmate arrivals, roll call, monthly family visits, meals at the chow hall, and quiet moments late at night inside a cell.”
Ear Hustle takes inspiration from these earlier shows but is different in one regard: It combines the insight of inmate-produced radio with the editorial freedom of a podcast. The show reaches beyond the borders of a broadcast radius and also benefits from Radiotopia’s established listener base; its episodes have been downloaded 2.9 million times thus far. And because the show is not broadcast on air, the producers have more freedom in what they can say and how they can say it. “We don’t have the restrictions of time or the language constraints or content constraints,” Julie Shapiro, Radiotopia’s executive producer, told me. “They can really do whatever they want with it.”
* * *
Poor began collaborating with inmates when one of her students in the Prison University Project approached her about shooting a documentary. When filming inside San Quentin proved too logistically difficult, they switched to audio and created an interview-based program that was aired on a closed-circuit station inside the prison. Soon, the local radio station KALW partnered with inmate producers to create San Quentin Radio, which airs on one of the station’s daily shows: The 5-to-10-minute segments explore stories about living with HIV in prison, transitioning genders as a corrections officer, and learning to code while incarcerated. Poor, wanting to create longer, more narrative-driven pieces, recruited Woods—whom she had met while working on the radio project—and the two of them conceived of Ear Hustle. When they learned of Radiotopia’s Podquest competition, they asked Williams to join them as the show’s sound designer.
Woods and Poor co-host Ear Hustle and speak for each side of the inside-outside dichotomy. “I can be the voice for people on the outside who haven’t had experiences in prison,” Poor told me. “And Earlonne is definitely the voice of the experience of being incarcerated. He’s the authority there.” Woods, who is in his mid-40s and is almost two decades into a 31-year-to-life sentence for attempted second-degree robbery, provides a reality check for Poor’s at times naïve understanding of prison. In the episode “Looking Out,” which explores the ways inmates fulfill their drive to nurture while incarcerated, Poor relays a story she heard about an inmate who was in High Desert State Prison for 10 years without hearing or seeing any dogs.
“One day he heard a dog barking,” Poor says, “and he was so overwhelmed by it—”
“Bullshit!” Woods interrupts, the word bursting from his mouth.
“Why do you say bullshit?” Poor asks, laughing.
Woods explains that not only can inmates see dogs on TV, but also the unit that investigates whether inmates have contraband patrols the prison with dogs. “They have dogs,” he says. “So their dogs is gonna walk through the institution, through the buildings, and they’re gonna bark.” You can almost hear his eyes rolling.
Their dialogue is playful and lively. Poor calls Earlonne “E,” and Woods shortens Nigel to “Nige.” Williams, meanwhile, is responsible for the show’s auditory details. The sound designer is in his late-20s and has served more than a decade of a 15-year sentence for armed robbery with a gun enhancement. In “Looking Out,” an inmate named Rauch (pronounced like “roach”) talks about caring for animals in prison. There’s the low croak of what sounds like a tuba when Rauch describes a frog that followed him around his cell, and then a fly buzzes by as he recalls catching insects for his spider. The intimate noises fill in the silence around the stories, embedding them in a three-dimensional soundscape.
Ear Hustle’s setting shifts in and out of focus. In “The SHU,” Woods talks about the time he spent in the Security Housing Unit, known in some states as solitary confinement. He describes how he and his cellmate wrote screenplays to keep themselves entertained: “My screenplay was about my fantasy life where everything went right. Where I made my momma proud, never went to jail, married my high school sweetheart, went to film school. But I still had my roots in the hood, and sadly, I had to kill off my character. … It’s like you’re the god of that world. It’s the only thing that you can control in the SHU. So why not kill off my character and then resurrect him in part two?”
“I should have known that E wouldn’t die,” says Poor.
Personal narratives like Woods’s provide an opportunity to explore legislative issues. In that same episode, inmates describe the 2013 hunger strike that contributed to ending indefinite confinement in the Security Housing Unit in California. Meanwhile, Woods’s sentence, which is written into the introduction of every episode, is a result of California’s Three Strikes sentencing law. Prior to 2012, the law mandated that a defendant convicted of a felony who had two or more previous serious or violent felony convictions be sentenced to a prison term of at least 25 years to life. “He’s in for a long time for something that doesn’t seem as drastic as people might think someone who’s in for 31-to-life might be in for,” Shapiro said of Woods. “I think your general listener picks up on that kind of thing and starts thinking about fairness of the laws ... and if they’re doing right by the people that are in prison.”
* * *
Audio stories are powerful, in part, because they counteract the tendency to see those incarcerated through the lens of their crimes. “The world wants to focus on why we’re here,” says Anastazia Schmid, an inmate at the Indiana Women’s Prison (IWP), in an episode of the radio program APM Reports from last year. “What they see is the felony of a crime that happened 20 years ago, but … nobody wants to know what in the hell is happening while we’re here.” Part of what Schmid has been doing while incarcerated is academic research. She and three fellow inmates presented their findings at the 2016 meeting of the American Historical Association. Because the women couldn’t attend the conference in person, they presented via video.
“If you close your eyes and just listen,” the producer Samara Freemark says in the report, the women’s presentations are “indistinguishable from the kind of lecture you’d hear delivered on the campus of any elite college.” For those who are incarcerated, such audio narratives can open a portal to the outside world as well. In the Ear Hustle episode “Catch a Kite,” inmates respond to postcards sent from listeners, sharing strategies for determining where to sit during prison meals and giving advice about what to say to an incarcerated relative. They are not just speaking into the microphone; they are speaking back to their audience.
But the portal can quickly close again. According to Poor, she spends 30 to 40 hours each week inside the prison, creating the podcast. This constitutes a full-time job, but in a world of constant communication—while I was talking to Shapiro, a listener tweeted at Ear Hustle from Belgium—the line between being there and not there is stark. “When I’m not in there, this veil goes down,” Poor told me. To discourage inappropriate relationships from forming, volunteers like Poor aren’t allowed to be on inmates’ visiting lists and therefore can’t call them. So her only way to communicate with Woods and Williams is to show up.
Showing up isn’t always an option. Lockdowns have kept Poor out of the prison for a week at a time, including halfway through this first season. Williams, Woods, and Poor record and produce the show inside the prison’s media lab. Because there is no email, Poor must transport files back and forth from the prison to get feedback from their outside consulting editor. During a lockdown, production stops, and Poor has no way to check in and no way to know when the veil will be lifted again.
The podcast is unstable in other ways, too. Poor worries that Woods or Williams will be transferred to another prison, which would effectively cancel the show. “A lot of this is dependent on the support of the institution,” Shapiro said. One prison official they depend on is Lieutenant Sam Robinson, San Quentin’s public information officer, who approves each episode before it airs. (There are, of course, the more prosaic worries about staying afloat: When Ear Hustle won the Podquest competition and joined Radiotopia, they received a stipend to cover initial operating costs; further costs are defrayed, but not yet covered, by advertisers and donations.)
Although Poor, Williams, and Woods report stories, Poor stresses the fact that they are not journalists. She has worked as a visual artist for more than 25 years and approaches this project from that perspective. “I think it’s a different way of looking at quote-unquote truth, human truth,” she said. “We are probably never going to definitively answer any question.”
But seemingly mundane experiences, Ear Hustle suggests, can reveal those human truths. The accounts that are common for those inside and outside of prison are ones of living: the difficulties of communication, the struggle of overcoming loneliness, the sometimes devastating desire to belong. Think of Eddie and Emile bickering in their cell: Who hasn’t chosen to be passive aggressive rather than express vulnerability?
These are stories about change, and that, in itself, is remarkable: Because when inmates tell their own stories, their narratives can evolve as their lives do. Ear Hustle’s episode “Misguided Loyalty” tells the story of Tommy Shakur Ross, who has served more than 30 years in prison for murdering a member of a rival gang. Poor notes on the show that Ross has changed since entering prison, but that the facts of his crime haven’t. “You can’t change the factors of your case. … The only thing you can do is move forward with your life and try your best to become a different person,” says Woods in response. “Muhammad Ali says it best: ‘The man who views the world at 50 the same as he did at 20 has wasted 30 years of his life.’ And if you’re gonna change, the story you tell about yourself has to change. And that’s true if you’re inside or outside of prison.”


Gal Gadot on Becoming Wonder Woman, the Biggest Action Hero of the Year
Alex Morris | Rolling Stone
“Gal Gadot is ostensibly here to talk about her rise from almost total unknown to an iconic, worldwide symbol of all that is good and powerful as the first-ever feature-film incarnation of Wonder Woman. But it's hard not to see elements of the superheroic in the way she just is. Never mind that she was up at 5 a.m. with a four-month-old (‘Dude, it’s exhausting, but it's the best’); in person, her aura hovers somewhere between Earth mother and glamazon.”
Turned Upside Down
Adam Sternbergh | Vulture
“This is the story of the Duffers’ breakout show, Stranger Things, which debuted last year and quickly became Exhibit A for the kind of hit that both harks back to an age of office watercoolers yet could happen only at this very modern moment—a moment characterized by unfettered social-media chatter and short-season TV shows you can binge-watch in one manic, unhinged weekend.”
Oprah and Ingrid Goes West: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
St. Vincent’s Cheeky, Sexy Rock
Nick Paumgarten | The New Yorker
“It had been more than three years since the release of her last album, which she’d named St. Vincent, as though it were her first under that name, rather than her fourth—or fifth, if you include one she made with David Byrne, in 2012. ... The self-titled album was widely considered to be a breakthrough, a consummation of sensibility and talent, a fulfillment of the St. Vincent conceit—this somewhat severe performer who was both her and not her.”
Degas’s Model Tells All
Jeff Nagy | The Paris Review
“Degas, as seen by the model Pauline, is no stoic devotee of the Muses but a curmudgeon subject to sudden bouts of theatrical self-pity, always on the verge of collapsing into melancholy ruminations over his failing sight, his oncoming death. The artist famous for his deft public quips becomes, in private, a mealy mouthed, repetitious prattler, retailing 20-year-old anecdotes for the two-hundredth time.”
How Atlanta Is Taking Over the Entertainment Industry
Alison Herman | The Ringer
“In Hollywood’s eyes, the South used to be a place to be utilized for its specific qualities and then left alone the rest of the time. … Now, it’s every place, a phenomenon that’s had a dramatic impact on the region even as that region’s flexibility—and therefore anonymity—has meant Georgia’s filming boom hasn’t attracted much notice outside of the area.”
A White, Hot Supremacist Summer
Wesley Morris | The New York Times
“To watch the movies or TV ... is to know that normalized white supremacy has been here all summer. It’s to know that the people who manufacture all sorts of popular culture have also, intentionally or not, tossed some racism onto the assembly line. It’s to know that whatever occurred in Charlottesville and then at that news conference didn’t happen in a vacuum. They were just the gnarliest flare-ups in a season of provocations that seem so business-as-usual that they scarcely feel provoked.”
Two Paths for the Personal Essay
Merve Emre | Boston Review
“For a certain breed of personal essayist at work today, there exists a necessary and desirable trade-off between aesthetic clarity and moral complexity; a bargain premised on the depressing notion that words are always insufficient to the task at hand and so we may as well stop trying to choose the clearest or most precise ones. The adjective that best captures the conditions of this bargain is messy.”
Farewell to the Village Voice, the Publication That Welcomed Me to America
Liel Leibovitz | Tablet
“Had you asked me what role I believe journalism played in public life, I would’ve given some sterile speech about speaking truth to power and reporting honestly so that we citizens can decide. The Voice changed all that. Journalism, it taught me, was about something larger than that: It was about community.”


Don’t Miss
The Enduring Fictions of Princess Diana—Megan Garber looks at how 20 years after Diana’s death, her life still asks uncomfortable questions about what we demand of fame.
The Business of Creativity
The Book He Wasn’t Supposed to Write—Thomas E. Ricks delivers an ode to the intense, but necessary relationship between writers and their editors.
Film
Remembering Jerry Lewis—David Sims eulogizes the iconic actor, singer, director, and entertainer, who died at the age of 91.
Beach Rats Is One of the Year’s Boldest Dramas—David Sims watches Eliza Hittman’s film that chronicles the life of a closeted young man spending his days on the boardwalks of Coney Island.
TV
Is Game of Thrones on Thin Ice?—Spencer Kornhaber, David Sims, and Lenika Cruz discuss “Beyond the Wall,” the sixth episode of the seventh season.
What Netflix Can Offer Shonda Rhimes—David Sims analyzes the move of television’s biggest producer from ABC to the streaming service, the most seismic shift in the Peak-TV era yet.
Deus Ex Westeros—Megan Garber questions whether Game of Thrones could go the way of Lost due to its recent absurd plot twists and unanswered questions.
It’s Not Too Late for Halt and Catch Fire—David Sims says there’s still time to catch AMC’s dazzling drama about the dawn of the internet age.
The Defenders Proves Heroes Aren’t Enough—Sophie Gilbert wonders what the four Marvel superheroes are really united against on the Netflix show.
Saturday Night Live Needs to Ditch the Special Guests—David Sims thinks the show’s summer Weekend Update specials have laid bare a troubling dependence on actors outside the core ensemble.
Music
Grizzly Bear Capture the Beauty of Connection—Spencer Kornhaber listens to the rock band’s fifth album, Painted Ruins, which balances mysterious complexity with pure loveliness.
The Classic-Rock Ecstasy of The War on Drugs—Spencer Kornhaber reviews the band’s album, A Deeper Understanding, which offers a powerful and steady high.
Who Killed Taylor Swift?—Spencer Kornhaber believes the jarring new single “Look What You Made Me Do” unveils a dark, not-altogether-convincing persona.
What to Expect From the 2017 MTV VMAs—Spencer Kornhaber predicts pop-gossip fireworks from Katy Perry and Taylor Swift, Kendrick Lamar’s victory lap, and some not-so-subtle politics.
Sports
Four Ways of Looking at Mayweather vs. McGregor—Nancy Kidder examines why so many people are paying such close attention to a fight critics have dismissed as a farce.


The first moments of Beach Rats are lit by the harsh glare of a cellphone flash bouncing off a bathroom mirror, as the chiseled Frankie (Harris Dickinson) takes selfie after selfie, his baseball cap obscuring most of his face. It’s an image that could easily come off as patronizing—the introduction of a preening, superficial young man, defining himself through the lens of a camera—but the film’s director, Eliza Hittman, has deeper goals. Locked away in this dark room, his eyes hidden from view, Frankie is grasping for a persona he can barely express in public, wrestling with his sexuality in ways his friends and family can’t understand.
Beach Rats is part slice-of-life Brooklyn drama, following Frankie and his friends as they stroll around the Coney Island boardwalk aimlessly, and part erotic art film, as Frankie struggles to come to terms with being gay. Hittman’s second film (after the similarly sexually charged 2013 drama It Felt Like Love), Beach Rats is a moody experience, light on plot and heavy on state of mind, guiding viewers through Frankie’s neon-lit world, where everything more than five feet away is obscured in darkness.
And, Scene: Moonlight
The movie is shot with grainy 16-millimeter film, and there’s a quiet confusion to much of the story, which takes place largely at night by Brooklyn’s beaches, where unseen waves crash in the distance. Frankie lives at home with his family, where his father is dying of cancer, and spends the day ambling around the neighborhood with his always shirtless friends, in search of weed and other cheap thrills. Unlike many a working-class Brooklyn drama, in Beach Rats the youths are very passive, mostly just mumbling dumb jokes at each other rather than engaging in testosterone-fueled one-upmanship.
At a beachside fireworks show, Frankie meets a girl, Simone (Madeline Weinstein), who tries to kindle a romance with this stoic Adonis. He runs pretty hot and cold, sometimes rebuffing her rather than explaining why he struggles to perform in bed, and other times clinging to her through a mix of guilt and social pressure. Throughout the film, he also browses online gay chatrooms and meets with random older men from the internet, who consistently ask what he’s looking for. “I’m not sure what I like,” Frankie demurs, over and over, partly copping to his own inexperience and partly denying a deeper truth about himself.
The hazy photography (of the cinematographer Hélène Louvart) recalls Barry Jenkins’s Moonlight, another coming-of-age gay drama that was shot in 16-millimeter, but Louvart is far more focused on the aesthetics of Frankie and his friends, capturing their bodies from all angles as they roam the beach, seemingly entirely comfortable with the way they look. Hittman contrasts this attitude with Frankie’s jumbled interiority—his discomfort with Simone anytime she initiates intimacy, his nervousness when he meets with other men. The director gets so much from Dickinson’s expressive face, drawing out every nervous tremble and flicker of fear in his eyes.
Dickinson, a young British actor with a few TV credits to his name, is quite a find, and he magnifies Beach Rats’s best moments, keeping Frankie from feeling like a sad, doe-eyed stereotype. There are moments of subtle aggression and direct nastiness, tempered with other scenes of (sometimes literally) naked vulnerability. Hittman’s impressions of Coney Island, just a couple neighborhoods south of where she grew up in Flatbush, are similarly nuanced, avoiding the more obvious imagery of it as a tinny, honky-tonk playground.
The film does, unfortunately, swerve into clichéd plot territory for its third act, seeking to bring some closure to Frankie’s attempts to lead a double life. Most irritatingly, Hittman suddenly brings his once passive cadre of friends into the foreground and has them behave like the bullies she had previously avoided reducing them to. There are notes of conflict that ring false and a closing scene of violence that’s hardly graphic, but the film ends on too easy a conclusion, a sort of spiritual punishment for Frankie’s ongoing denial of self.
It’s a predictable turn of events—Frankie’s attempts to hide so much of himself away can’t last forever—but since Hittman avoids such heavy-handedness throughout, the finale feels especially disappointing. But Beach Rats still lingered in my brain after I saw it, mostly for those quieter shots of Frankie’s face etched with emotions that were harder to pigeonhole. Hittman, and Dickinson, should have bright futures ahead of them, but it will be hard for either of them to make a work this boldly memorable.


On Saturday night in Las Vegas, Conor McGregor will face off against Floyd Mayweather Jr. in what is being billed as “the biggest fight in combat-sports history.” Mayweather is undefeated as a professional boxer and just one victory away from beating Rocky Marciano’s all-time record of 49-0. McGregor, meanwhile, has never professionally boxed: He’s a mixed-martial artist who in four short years has become the most popular fighter in the Ultimate Fighting Championship, or UFC.
Much of the traditional sports media and boxing establishment has denounced this fight. The HBO boxing color commentator Max Kellerman predicted McGregor “will not land one punch.” The former boxer and current promoter Oscar De La Hoya called the event a cash grab by both fighters: “It’s a win-win for them. It’s a lose-lose for [fans].” The sports journalist Jeremy Schaap said similarly, “In the end, the joke will be on us.”
Boxing's Boring Night
And yet, even critics have had to acknowledge the overwhelming fan enthusiasm. The New York Post’s George Willis wrote that the fight “will be a huge financial success, even if most people think it will be one-sided.” Though some (very expensive) tickets to the Vegas event remain up for grabs, promoters still predict the bout will exceed the live gate record of $72 million set by Mayweather’s fight against Manny Pacquiao in 2015.
This past spring, I taught a course on the history and literature of boxing and combat sports: My class studied accounts of famous bouts and relevant works from Homer’s The Iliad to Martin Scorsese’s Raging Bull. A theme that runs through much of the writing about fighting, as the French philosopher and amateur middleweight Albert Camus once noted, is that “there is good and evil, the winner and the loser.” Still, the public cares about more than just a fight’s outcome; the build-up and the aftermath are part of the story, too. Whether Mayweather vs. McGregor ends as a mockery, stunning upset, or somewhere in between, here are four narratives that can help devoted fight fans and casual viewers understand the match.
Both boxing and the UFC have their pride and future at stake in this fight. Boxing has a rich history, but it’s always had its critics, some of whom have been declaring the sport near-dead for decades. In 1913, The Los Angeles Times proclaimed, “Professional Boxing Is Dying a Natural Death,” because of poorly trained younger fighters who lacked “class,” well before any of the historic fights fans now remember. Actual deaths in the ring, most notably Benny Paret in 1962 and Kim Duk Koo in 1982, both on live television, caused temporary public retreats. The aftermath of the 1997 Mike Tyson-Evander Holyfield rematch, which was stopped when Tyson twice bit Holyfield’s ears, also left fans looking elsewhere. Nevertheless, De La Hoya and Mayweather used their Olympic boxing success and savvy promotion to become contemporary stars. Mayweather has been the most successful, beating De La Hoya, remaining undefeated, and headlining the most popular pay-per-view boxing events of all time.
In contrast, the UFC has only been around since 1993. Mixed martial arts (MMA) fans often feel disrespected by boxing fans, who sometimes view the UFC as too wild, unpredictable, and inferior to the so-called “sweet science” of boxing. The UFC has made recent gains in popularity and mainstream acceptance with megastars like Ronda Rousey and now McGregor. The sale of the UFC for $4 billion in 2016 dominated headlines and made it appear to some sports analysts that MMA was positioned to leave boxing behind.
This year is turning out to be a pivotal moment for both sports. Rousey is all but retired after a second loss at the end of 2016, and McGregor hasn’t fought since November 2016. Without its stars, the UFC has struggled to draw the same numbers. At the same time, boxing is having what may be remembered as a renaissance year. The heavyweight Anthony Joshua defeated Wladimir Klitschko in front of 90,000 fans in London in April. Canelo Alvarez beat Julio Cesar Chavez Jr. in May in a fight that drew more than one million pay-per-view buys and set up a much anticipated match-up between Alvarez and Gennady Golovkin on September 16.
Mayweather vs. McGregor pits both sports against each other. If McGregor wins against an undefeated champion, boxing as a sport may be humiliated, and its rules and traditions may appear outdated. On the other hand, if Mayweather trounces McGregor, the UFC star may suffer a significant blow to his reputation and see his sport’s second-class status further entrenched.
Promotion has long been integral to prizefighting. In the late 1880s and early 1900s, promoters used print outlets, such as the celebrity magazine the Police Gazette, to publicize fights and capitalize on gambling interests.The rise of radio and television later transformed boxing into a mainstream spectator sport in the 20th century. Today, Mayweather and McGregor are using social media at a level unprecedented in previous boxing matches or other sporting events. The fighters initially teased the matchup on Twitter and Instagram as an apparent joke in the spring of 2016. Dana White, the president of the UFC, first dismissed the prospect, but the fan excitement eventually prompted him, as well as Mayweather and his team, to embrace the idea.
The fact that fan interest was enough to convince promoters to stage the fight—and disregard criticism from journalists and other experts—may have fueled the media pushback. Furthermore, as the public cuts down on cable and satellite services, combat sports may need to further investigate distributing content via social media (following the NFL’s recent experimental deal with Amazon). If the fight turns out to be the boring mismatch that has been predicted, the critics will be vindicated. The ultimate numbers drawn by the fight in sales and pay-per-view buys will be a referendum on the utility of social media to construct and promote events like this.
A significant part of the promotion and story of any bout is the fighters’ backgrounds. During part of my course, students examined texts that delve into the appeal of the hometown hero. In his book Cinderella Man, a chronicle of the Irish American fighter James Braddock, Jeremy Schaap describes how boxing “was rooted in its ethnic and racial rivalries, which were exploited by promoters and relished by fans, many of whom were immigrants or first-generation Americans.”
In the 1930s, Max Schmeling—a German who wasn’t himself a Nazi but whose talent made him a favorite of Adolf Hitler’s regime—came to be symbol of Nazism for many Americans. Max Baer, who faced Schmeling in 1933, wore a Star of David on his shorts to emphasize his Jewishness (even though his actual heritage was uncertain). Schmeling’s later fights with the African American boxer Joe Louis were also promoted as a challenge to Nazism, with some sources saying Franklin Roosevelt told Louis before his rematch with Schmeling in 1938, “Joe, we’re depending on those muscles for America.”
Both Mayweather and McGregor have origin stories with broad resonance and appeal. Mayweather grew up in a boxing family in a poor neighborhood in Michigan where drugs were prevalent, only to go on to form his own promotion company and become the most lucrative pay-per-view attraction of all time. That rise, however, has been tarnished by repeated convictions for domestic violence, including time spent in jail after multiple plea bargains and suspended sentences. Mayweather travels with a large entourage and spends lavishly. His luxury goods and stacks of cash project an Instagram image of modern American success.
McGregor also grew up in a working-class neighborhood—in Dublin, Ireland. He started out boxing at age 12 and then transitioned to MMA. He was receiving welfare payments in Ireland as recently as four years ago before joining the UFC and winning the featherweight and lightweight championships. (He named a boat he purchased the “188” after the amount of his weekly welfare checks.) McGregor’s narrative has deep ties to his home country. Many of the fans who follow and cheer him in the stands are of Irish descent or from Ireland—a place with a storied history of professional fighting champions, such as John L. Sullivan, Barry McGuigan, and “Irish” Micky Ward. These fighters also came to be symbols of unity and pride for an island that had suffered civil unrest, invasions, famines, and financial crises.
The arcs of Mayweather and McGregor are inspiring to a certain extent, but the dueling backstories and accompanying trash talk have also led to accusations of racism. At an event in early July, McGregor taunted Mayweather with the phrase “dance for me, boy.” When criticized for racial insensitivity, McGregor declared himself “black from the belly button down” while performing a lurid dance. (McGregor claimed he meant to mock the idea of racism and show his love for all people.) Regardless of intention, these taunts exposed the racial stereotypes that still run through boxing. The exchanges evoked past promotional efforts such as James Jeffries being described as “the Great White Hope” in a 1910 fight with Jack Johnson, the first black heavyweight champion, as well as Muhammad Ali’s boast that he would beat the “gorilla” Joe Frazier in the “Thrilla in Manila.” These stories all demonstrate how often promotional narratives in boxing leverage racial and national identity—however ugly the effect—to create tension around a fight.
Both Mayweather and McGregor have made nods to the iconic 1976 film Rocky and its sequels ahead of the fight. In July, John Kavanagh, McGregor’s coach, tweeted an ode to Rocky II, the sequel when Rocky Balboa finally defeats Apollo Creed: “49-0 until he faced a tough southpaw that nobody gave a chance to.” McGregor followed with a film clip of himself on a stationary bike while monitored by medical staff. The video was captioned “If he dies. He dies.”—a clear nod to Ivan Drago, the Russian super-athlete who kills Apollo by knockout in Rocky IV.
For his part, Mayweather has willingly adopted the Apollo Creed persona, wearing a red, white, and blue “48” hat to the first press conference, referencing Apollo’s undefeated record before the first movie in which Apollo won. The allusions suggest Mayweather and McGregor are aware of their respective characters in this story and, while each may have a different view of the likelihood of the underdog prevailing, both recognize this narrative’s power to sell the fight.
In the end, McGregor’s long odds haven’t deterred many spectators from betting on a victory for the Irishman—far from it. The lead-up to the fight has been filled with stories about Las Vegas sports-book operators worrying about the prospect of a Mayweather upset, given the surprisingly disproportionate number of bets placed for McGregor. As ESPN’s Doug Kezirian reported, “not a single sports-book operator I spoke with anticipated the historic one-sided betting action they’ve seen on the fight,” with many predicting massive losses if McGregor succeeds.
It’s this power of possibility that may be the most universal aspect of the event. As Joyce Carol Oates wrote in the title essay to her 1987 book On Boxing, “If a boxing match is a story it is an always wayward story, one in which anything can happen.” How this fight plays out will determine whether “anything can happen” is a romantic, hopeful refrain about the sport, or merely an empty promotional line. When McGregor finally steps into the ring with Mayweather, the audience will either be witnesses to greatness or mere revenue sources. Either way, they’ll be a part of combat sports history.


On Sunday night, millions of people will tune in to see a long, bloody storyline come to a thrilling climax when two rival queens meet in the same location, with one toting CGI reptiles. The Game of Thrones finale will be on as well.
The MTV Video Music Awards, airing this year at 8 p.m. Eastern, is the televised ceremony that’s historically been the savviest and most shameless about causing conversation-baiting moments: unexpected make-outs involving Madonna or Michael Jackson, Kanye West’s “I’mma let you finish but … ,” Miley Cyrus twerking, “Miley, what’s good?,” etc. For this year’s ceremony, the prime source of drama looks to be in the pesky psychosocial narrative that is Taylor Swift vs. Katy Perry, from which observers can draw observations about gender and fame but also simply about two superstars trying to prolong their imperial phases.
Who Killed Taylor Swift?
The origins of their beef are hazy, but its benefit to both artists has been clear, as has the fact that it fed some urge in the fan/media ecosystem to see strong females feuding. This year, Perry dined out on the appearance of bad blood by releasing a trash-talking single about triumphing over a sheep in wolf’s clothing. Then, during her brain-melting publicity stunt of livestreaming herself for four days, she tearfully forgave Swift for whatever she did. Swift famously seemed to take aim at Perry in a 2015 No. 1 hit, and her newly announced album, Reputation, promises to devilishly embrace the backlash against her for being a “snake.”
Perry is hosting the VMAs and is set to perform a “zero-gravity” medley of her songs, while Swift will be there to premiere the music video for her acidic new single “Look What You Made Me Do.” Producers have publicly shot down rumors of a collaborative set, but how could any of the involved parties who thrive on attention resist an encounter? Perhaps the two will formally announce peace—and then hiss at everyone who egged their fight on over the years: Look at what you made us do. The appeal of a headline-grabbing moment for the singers is clear enough. Judging by sales of her loopy Witness, Perry’s appeal is flagging, and whether Swift can continue as a No. 1 commercial conquerer through another album cycle is the pop question of the moment.
The other vital superstar of the night will be Kendrick Lamar, someone who has largely kept the celebrity-media ecosystem at arm’s length. After putting out his most accessible album this year and being rewarded with unprecedented commercial success, he has eight VMA nominations, including Video of the Year (for “Humble”) and Artist of the Year. He’s also booked to perform, and judging from his pyrotechnic 2016 Grammys set, it could make for a splashy political statement. If someone were going to offer a powerful on-stage artistic commentary about, say, Charlottesville, it’d be him. Then again, he’s earned his right to just party.
Lamar will be among what’s apparently the largest crop of scheduled performers in VMAs history. The elevated headcount might be an attempt to make up for a dearth of icon-status folks such as Beyoncé, Rihanna, and Kanye West, who defined last year’s ceremony. To be sure, there will be huge names present—Ed Sheeran, Lorde, The Weeknd—but more intriguing are folks like the earnest young R&B crooner Khalid, making his VMAs debut. The cult-beloved rapper Logic reportedly will incorporate tributes to recently deceased rockers Chester Bennington and Chris Cornell into his set. More head-scratchingly: Rod Stewart will be joined by DNCE—the band of Joe Jonas of the Jonas Brothers, famous for the hit “Cake by the Ocean”—for a new version of “Da Ya Think I’m Sexy.”
If this all sounds like pop-gossip escapism during a time of national tumult, well, it is. But politics will be an issue, one way or another. A new awards category, “Best Fight Against the System,” will highlight videos with a social message, like Alessia Cara’s body-positivity statement “Scars to Your Beautiful” and The Hamilton Mixtape’s “Immigrants (We Get the Job Done).” Moreover, if the entire Perry/Swift situation seems a bit regressive in its identity politics, the VMAs have at least paid lip service to the idea of progress on that front. For the first time, its categories and awards will be gender neutral—which is to say, instead of “Best Male Video” and “Best Female Video” there’s simply “Artist of the Year.” And in the greatest sign of the times, the Moonman trophy is now just a Moonperson.


Who killed Taylor Swift? Her new single, “Look What You Made Me Do,” has her bragging of coming back from the dead, and the sound of her song does, in fact, feel like the work of a hell creature possessing someone once capable of charm.
The most drastic sign of Swift’s semi-fun new malevolence is the chant-and-dance chorus, which channels both Peaches and—this is not a joke but rather something literally acknowledged in the credits to the song—Right Said Fred’s “I’m Too Sexy.” Elsewhere, skewed string instruments are even more obvious in their spookiness than the soundtrack cues from American Horror Story. Underneath it all are churning electronic bass and snappy drum machines, aligning with recent radio trends save for whatever trend explained Swift’s previous success. The song is a monster: catchy but cringeworthy.
Inside the Taylor Swift Corn Maze
Swift, an expert manager of public narratives, trusts that anyone listening has been paying enough attention to the past few years of headlines to guess who the dirty no-good “you” of the title is.  The most obvious target: her perpetual tormenter Kanye West, who last year performed on a tilted stage like the one Swift sings about here and trapped her with a phone call like the one she stages in a skit late in the song. Other high-profile rivals, like Katy Perry or the radio host David Mueller, who she just testified against for sexual harassment, slot in just fine. So do the listener’s own villains thanks to the rather vague writing. Who can’t find use for such delicious taunts as, “No, I don’t like you”?

But given the newsprint-encrusted cover of her forthcoming album, Reputation, the safest guess is that “you” is more or less everyone: paparazzi, critics, and the public at large, subjecting her to the standard celebrity crucible of scrutiny. At some point every pop star turns on the industry that made them, and the form of that clapback can include hedonistic liberation (Britney Spears, “Piece of Me”) or folksy deconstruction (Lady Gaga, Joanne). Swift has chosen to lean into the snark, morphing into the destructobot that she’s been accused of hiding inside. This is a trick she pulled once, brilliantly, on 2014’s much funnier “Blank Space.” The new single, though, is only an accidental triumph in reputation management, giving the lie to the idea that a full-on cutthroat persona comes naturally to her.
Because the true horror of “Look What You Made Me Do” is in what Swift reveals, perhaps unintentionally: The pretense of just not caring anymore—the insistence that she’s “harder and smarter,” as she puts it in the Lorde-like pileup of the pre-chorus—is contradicted by how desperately Swift strains to communicate her transformation. She’s telling-not-showing, crudely. The cute vignette about the old Taylor having bit the dust is one example. So are the production choices, relying on old ideas about electronica as intrinsically cold and distancing. And the flat chorus draws on a pop-culture cliche of affectless avengers; Game of Thrones’s ever-more-monotone Arya Stark, fulfilling the same gendered archetype, even has a kill list like the one mentioned here. Swift sounds as though she’s stepping into a pre-made character, one a lot less fascinating than the one she came up with before.
Produced and co-written by Jack Antonoff, the song does have enough spin-class utility to stick around if the public’s able to get past the gut-level discomfort Swift triggers here. The way she clips her syllables in the verses and then unnaturally syncopates them in the chorus, and the way that the pre-chorus is its own monster hook, are signs of the calculation for catchiness that Max Martin executed on Swift’s juggernaut 1989. And the long list of “this sounds like” comments on social media when the song dropped—to Fergie, to Gwen Stefani, to Madonna, to Ladytron—are a sign that she’s out on less of a limb than it seems. The sass and self-aggrandizing routine that Swift has always peddled remains; it’s the recognizable humanity, the writerly poignance, and the eye for fresh angles that are gone. What did we make her do, really? Nothing that hasn’t been done before.


In June of 2011, to celebrate what would have been the 50th birthday of Princess Diana, Newsweek published a cover story with a title both simple and ominous: “Diana at 50: If She Were Here Now.” Written by the magazine’s then-editor, Tina Brown, who had been a friend of Diana’s during her short life, the essay was a blend of speculative and fan fictions: Brown imagined Diana having lived beyond mid-1997 and into the world of mid-2011. The images that accompanied Brown’s essay depicted Diana, age eerily grafted onto her with the assistance of Photoshop, gallivanting with her daughter-in-law, Kate Middleton, clutching an iPhone, grinning. The package indulged, on the whole, in a very particular kind of fantasy—that Diana’s unruly humanity might later in her life have resolved into the thing that had for so long eluded her: happiness.
What We Talk About When We Talk About ‘Unruly’ Women
The logic of Brown’s tribute to her friend is replicated in the new novel Imagining Diana, which also speculates about what might have happened had Diana survived the Paris car crash that did, in fact, take her life. Diane Clehane’s book is one of many new works that are being released to commemorate the 20th anniversary of Diana’s death: books (National Geographic’s Remembering Diana: A Life in Photographs), collectible magazine editions (Diana: Her Legacy of Love), and documentaries, among them National Geographic’s Diana: In Her Own Words. CBS’s Princess Diana: Her Life—Her Death—The Truth. PBS’s Diana—Her Story. TLC’s Princess Diana: Tragedy or Treason? The Smithsonian Channel’s Diana and the Paparazzi. HBO’s Diana, Our Mother: Her Life and Legacy.
In one way, the new works are simply predictable reiterations of the older ones: products of the Diana industry, its dusty machinery having lurched to life once more. But there is also, in them, something particularly fit to the world of the 21st century: the fan fiction. The Photoshop both literal and figurative. The consideration of celebrity as both a commercial transaction and an existential condition. Twenty years after she died, chased down by paparazzi who were chasing the images the people craved, many of these new takes look at Diana’s life and see not just a princess trapped in a flawed fairy tale, but also a public who helped to ensure her continued captivity. They reckon with the irony they helped to create—an irony that lives on, in some ways, for the celebrities of the current moment: that, as Diana’s brother Charles put it at her funeral, “a girl given the name of the ancient goddess of hunting was in the end the most hunted person of the modern age.” They look, once again, at Diana. And they seek their own—our own—redemption.
* * *
Photography is an art of intimacy. There’s equipment involved in it, yes—metal, glass, lenses that contort reality in order to capture it—but on the whole the taking of pictures is physical work, requiring a proximity between the photographer and the subject. There can be a magic in that; there can also be a sense of invasion. The subject, captured without her consent. The subject, zoomed in on. The subject, “shot.”
That dynamic—subject and object, stalker and prey—informs much of the conventional wisdom that sprang up in the days and years after Diana’s death: The press, the logic went (the photographers, in particular) were at least partially to blame for the car accident that took her life. The paparazzi, frenzied by Diana’s new relationship with Dodi Fayed, had chased her into that tunnel in Paris; they had encouraged Fayed’s chauffeur, Henri Paul, to speed up in an effort at evasion; the effort failed in the most tragic way possible. The jury at the 2008 inquests into the deaths of Diana and Fayed found the paparazzi to be a contributing factor in those deaths. In 2007, Phil Hall, who had been the editor of the News of the World during Diana’s life, put it bluntly: “A big Diana story could add 150,000 sales,” he said. “So we were all responsible.”
That sense of collective guilt remains a common theme in the new Diana documentaries. In Diana, Our Mother, Prince William notes of the tabloids that paid for the paps’ images, “I think it was an industry that lost its way, quite heavily. Lost its sense of decency, lost its perspective on what was appropriate.” In TLC’s Princess Diana: Tragedy or Treason?, an examination of the many conspiracy theories that arose to explain the crash, the royal historian Kate Williams compares Diana to a hunted fox. In the same film, Tamron Hall, the former NBC News anchor, describes Diana as the prey that finds itself under the constant surveillance of the media’s collective “hyena.” Prince Charles, in a TV interview with his then-wife, noted “the cameras poking at you from every corner.” Diana herself called her treatment at the hands of the press “appalling.”
What the movies also acknowledge, though, are the capitalistic forces at play in all that: The press was doing the bidding of the public—a public with a voracious appetite for Diana, and in particular for pictures of her. That Diana was “the people’s princess” was a concept introduced by the British prime minister Tony Blair in a speech he delivered after her death—and the term was a reference not merely to her reputation for unstuffiness, or to her humanitarian work, but also to the sense of ownership people had over her life. That sense was ratified by a progression of pictures: the 19-year-old pre-school assistant, the sunlight rendering her modest skirt virtually transparent. The 20-year-old bride, her dress billowing behind her like a pouf of airy possibility. The 21-year-old mother, expertly soothing her newborn. And then, later: The global celebrity, “shy Di” no longer, twirling on a White House dance floor with John Travolta. And meeting AIDS patients—hugging AIDS patients—at Middlesex Hospital in London. And touring the minefields of Angola. And sitting on the diving board of Fayed’s yacht in the Mediterranean, legs dangling insouciantly—ominously—over the edge.
Intimate and distant, public and private: Diana’s story was one often told through pictures rather than words. She tried to push back against that—in bids for sympathy, perhaps, but also, it seems, for complication itself. She wanted to be understood not as a fanciful literary figure, but as a full and flawed human. In 1993, the journalist Andrew Morton published Diana: Her True Story, the first work to document some of the truths that had complicated the life that had initially seemed such a fairy tale, among them Diana’s eating disorders and suicide attempts. In interviews, Morton stood by the veracity of his story while insisting that he would not reveal his sources for it. Only after she died did Morton disclose that Diana herself had been his source. (“Thank you for your belief in me,” she had written to her biographer in a letter, “and for taking the trouble to understand this mind—it’s such a relief not to be on my own anymore and that it’s okay to be me.”)
She had to fight for that nuance, though. Diana was, through the media, living a bildungsroman in real time. The young Lady Spencer was deemed suitable to become Prince Charles’s wife in part because she was so young—an asset not only when it came to the expectations of childbearing that would be placed on her (her uncle, Lord Fermoy, vouched for her virginity to the Daily Star), but also when it came to the more narrative elements of modern princessery: She arrived on the scene, essentially, a blank slate. No previous boyfriends who could sell stories of her to the tabloids. No dramas of the past that might inject themselves into her new life. Diana appealed to the royal family in large part because she had, prior to accepting that sapphire-and-diamond ring, led a quiet life of easy aristocracy.
And her story from there resonated not just because of the gauzy romance of royalty, but also because of the conflict that will result when the traditions of monarchy tangle with the realities of a heavily mediated world. As Tina Brown noted in her Newsweek essay, “‘Happily ever after’ will never have the same allure to the press as ‘it all went horribly wrong.’” Diana’s personal take on the modern-day fairy tale could be shaped and molded, the thinking seems to have gone—largely through the bards of the media.
“How are you coping with all the press attention?” an anonymous reporter, following the not-yet-princess as she walked to her car in London, asked Diana, in 1979, in a scene aired across several of the 2017 documentaries.
“Well as you can see,” Diana began to reply—and, then, she trailed off. “You can tell,” Diana said, dodging a sidewalk lamppost.
The reporter pressed on. “Are you bearing up with it quite well, though? Because it must be quite a strain with all of us after you.”
Diana’s reply? “Well it is, actually.”
She is polite; she is also a little bit baffled. She is being asked to comment, after all, on how she is coping with the press attention by a member of the press who is lavishing that attention. Early on, through the repetition of such ironies, Diana came to be a media event incarnate: a person who was famous for being famous. A walking tautology. In the Smithsonian Channel’s Diana and the Paparazzi, a tabloid editor describes a common practice for their Sunday editions, after Diana and Charles had separated and her life had become considerably less quiet than it once had been. If Diana had plans to go out on Saturday night, the editors would save a space in the paper for her: Whatever she ended up doing, they figured, would be newsworthy. In the sense that it would further the story being written about her in the media—the fan fiction that surrounded her even while she was alive.
* * *
Diana often compared herself to Marilyn Monroe: a woman also haunted and hunted, a woman also misunderstood, a woman who was in her own way famous for being famous. But Diana also had much in common with Beyoncé, and Kim Kardashian, and Taylor Swift, and the other women who would travel the path she helped to shape, with all those motorbiked cameramen in tow. She raised questions about a culture that is unsure what it wants from its celebrities: Are they role models? Are they warnings? Does their appeal rest in the fact that they are just like us—or in the notion, instead, that they are mortal gods?
Diana, so revered, so belittled, so sanctified, so victimized, was in her death a reminder of the obvious: The people in the images, held up as paragons of beauty and talent and fame itself, are ultimately flesh and bone. They are flawed and fallible, just like us. Diana, by virtue of the timing of her death, was perhaps the last of the analog celebrities: She died before Facebook and Twitter and Snapchat would come on the scene; she died less than a decade after her fellow Brit, Tim Berners-Lee, created the World Wide Web. (On the BBC’s 2002 list of the “100 Greatest Britons,” Berners-Lee was deemed the 99th greatest. Diana was deemed the third.) She died just before the dynamics of fame became regulated by the dynamics of marketing—just before, as The New York Times’s Katherine Rosman put it, celebrities took back some control, manipulating the press and calling it “branding.” She died just before she could, in some way, fight back.
And, so, 20 years later, to mourn Diana is also to mourn what she might have been, had she lived longer: personally fulfilled, in the manner of Brown’s fan fiction, and also, when it came to the press, more empowered. Better equipped. Front and center, rather than at the distant end of a roving telephoto lens. In 1997, Diana’s eulogies talked of guilt and shame; in 2017, her celebrations look for redemption. But they have a hard time finding it: Another irony of Diana’s celebrity was that people cared about her so reflexively that they weren’t sure how to care about her genuinely. They—we—looked at Diana and saw, first and foremost, an image to be bought. A character to be discussed. A royal to be envied. A heroine to be pitied. There was the people’s princess, trapped in a gilded tower, waving frantically at those gathered below as they gazed, and gawked, and paused to take just one more picture.


It’s easy to understand the reasoning behind Saturday Night Live Weekend Update: Summer Edition, convoluted name aside. SNL’s September-to-May network schedule keeps it off the air for the whole summer, and as the Trump administration (the program’s biggest ratings booster) rumbles along making news every day, the show doesn’t get any bites at the satirical apple, so to speak. So these half-hour episodes, centered entirely on the Michael Che and Colin Jost-hosted topical-news segment, are a way for the show to try and stay relevant ahead of a pivotal season. It’s also no coincidence that the most viral clips to come out of these specials have starred SNL veterans like Bill Hader, Jimmy Fallon, Seth Meyers, and Tina Fey.
Anytime Saturday Night Live starts airing Weekend Update specials, you know it just had a big year. In 2008, after the show’s ratings bump following Fey’s Sarah Palin impression, NBC ordered three primetime episodes to air as a sort of election special, anchored by Seth Meyers and Amy Poehler. The duo returned for another three episodes in 2009, as the political stuff was still flying high, and two more such specials aired in the fall of 2012, this time centered on the Obama-Romney election.
'Let Us Eat Cake': The Tina Fey Effect in 2017
Politics has always been a boon for Saturday Night Live. Its 42nd season, which aired over the 2016 election and Trump’s early months in office, revitalized the show’s ratings as usual. But unlike 2008, a moment that helped magnify SNL’s already impressive ensemble (including Kristen Wiig, Andy Samberg, Poehler, and Meyers), 2016 instead highlighted the show’s deficiencies. Saturday Night Live relied too heavily on celebrity guests and drop-ins from alumni, was confused on just how forcefully it should criticize Trump (though it eventually settled into a fairly harsh tone on that front), and clearly lacked the kinds of popular recurring characters that form the backbone of the show.
So far, Weekend Update: Summer Edition hasn’t done much to change that perception. In the first episode, Hader dropped by to play Anthony Scaramucci in a sketch that was pre-taped in Los Angeles, a trick the show employed a few times last year to work around the busy schedule of Melissa McCarthy (who played Sean Spicer to great effect). Hader was his typical amusing self as “the Mooch,” but there’s often an airless quality to those pre-taped bits (it’s called Saturday Night Live for a reason), and this time was no different.
On the next episode, the former Weekend Update hosts Fallon and Meyers performed a double act as George Washington and Thomas Jefferson, a cute hat-tip to their status as SNL’s wizened ancestors. Then Fey stopped by for a much remarked-upon monologue on the Charlottesville protests, speaking as an alumna of the University of Virginia. Through it all, Jost and Che provide the usual one-liners and chummy repartee, but the whole endeavor feels like a desperate attempt to stay in the conversation and keep up with the nonstop political news.
This is not to say Saturday Night Live is fading away; it was still one of the highest-rated, and most-discussed, shows of the 2016 season and remains hugely popular in the all-important advertiser “demo” (people aged 18-49). But the program is at a crossroads as it looks ahead to a year in comedy that promises to be just as politically charged as the last. Does it double down on the short-term play it made last season—lots of guest stars taking on lots of topical figures—or start to hand roles back to its actual ensemble, in the hopes of building them up with audiences?
Remember that some of SNL’s biggest recent stars have been Alec Baldwin (who plays Trump), Larry David (whose Bernie Sanders impression was highly touted), and McCarthy. Kate McKinnon, who played Hillary Clinton on the show, as well as Kellyanne Conway, Jeff Sessions, and many others, is entering her seventh SNL season, so it may not be long before she leaves to pursue a movie career full-time. Behind her, the bench is weak.
Aside from Kenan Thompson (a brilliant member of SNL’s firmament), the cast consists of solid ensemble players like Aidy Bryant, Cecily Strong, and Beck Bennett, none of whom has ever quite broken out in the way McKinnon has. Leslie Jones is the closest thing SNL has to a successor to McKinnon, but she might be a better fit for the Update desk (which has long been the provenance of stand-up comedians like herself). The rest of the returning cast is Pete Davidson, Kyle Mooney, Mikey Day, Alex Moffat, and Melissa Villaseñor, with Bobby Moynihan, Vanessa Bayer, and Sasheer Zamata all having left in the off-season.
Looking at that cast list (and it’s possible the show will announce more hires soon), it’s not hard to glean what’s in Saturday Night Live’s immediate future. Baldwin-as-Trump will remain the star as long as he wants the role, and he has announced his return even though he’s publicly noted his queasiness about the gig at times. McCarthy’s Spicer will perhaps only get a send-off sketch, as the press secretary stepped down this summer. But there will certainly be more White House staffers for the show to train its sights on, as well as more famous ex-SNL cast members on deck to take swings at them.
Still, this political boom can’t last forever, and without it, SNL’s future is relatively bleak. Of the most recent hires, Day (an experienced writer) and Moffat have stood out the most, but they’re similar comedic types (rangy white guys). Two of the show’s biggest personalities (Jones and Davidson) are stand-ups, who are less strong as sketch performers, and there’s a serious absence of good impressionists, another crucial part of SNL’s DNA. For the show to escape its cycle of viral mediocrity, the cast will have to take more risks, and the writers will have to push out more sketches that don’t require superstar guest appearances. Sad as it may be, don’t count on SNL to make these necessary changes in time for Season 43.


This story contains spoilers through all eight episodes of The Defenders.
The premise of The Defenders was a doozy: Netflix’s four Marvel superheroes, with their various powers, and foibles, and neatly color-coded worlds, would team up to battle an antagonist so powerful and so nefarious that it required their collective might to defeat it. What’s not to like? As The Avengers has proven, the only thing better than a superhero is a team of superheroes, griping, and squabbling, and eating shawarma together after saving the world again.
And yet, working through all eight episodes of the miniseries uniting Daredevil, Jessica Jones, Luke Cage, and Iron Fist, it became apparent around the fifth episode that something crucial was missing. This was (spoilers ahead) when it became clear that the primary goal of the evil organization the four heroes were fighting, The Hand, was ... to go back to K’un-Lun, a mystical city in a parallel dimension. Forget penetrating the upper echelons of government, or building a criminal empire by consolidating rival factions, or even getting New York City addicted to an extremely potent form of synthetic heroin. Instead, the five fingers of The Hand simply wanted to secure enough ground-up dragon bone (conveniently fossilized several thousand feet under Hell’s Kitchen) to secure their immortality and then go home, with or without the Iron Fist in tow.
The Disturbing Appeal of the Punisher
It was a plot that drew heavily on events from both seasons of Daredevil and the most recent debut of Iron Fist, in which The Hand was revealed to have infiltrated both New York’s criminal underworld and its corporate boardrooms. And yet, whether because of the show’s limited number of episodes or simple budgetary restraint, The Hand seemed positively subdued in The Defenders, lacking in motivation and manpower. Compare the final episode to the epic battle in the last episode of Season 2 of Daredevil, where Matt Murdock (in costume) fought a horde of several thousand ninjas led by Nobu Yoshioka. But in The Defenders, down in the Chamber of Secrets the mysterious midtown hole filled with dragon remains, The Hand’s four remaining fingers were left to do most of the fighting themselves, with only a sparse collection of henchmen helping on the sidelines.
If The Defenders proves anything, it’s that villains are as important to the success of a Marvel story as heroes are. To neglect them, or (as seems more likely) to be stymied by a confluence of existing narrative events that require reconciling, is to end up with a series that squanders its premise. In the third episode, when the four primary characters finally got to fight together for the first time, The Defenders proved its potential, showing how dynamic and fun it could be to have the squad’s various powers united for good. But as the series went on, it became progressively less clear what exactly they were fighting for. The threat of an earthquake that would destroy Manhattan loomed mysteriously large, even though the solution—detonating enough C-4 to bring down a midtown building—seemed more destabilizing to the city’s geology than smashing a mystical door to mine dragon bones could ever be.
Unpredictably, one of the biggest flaws of the miniseries was Sigourney Weaver’s Alexandra Reid, a paint-by-numbers aesthete of a villain with a yen for fine art and a wardrobe full of neutral separates from Akris Punto. Weaver brought exactly the same steely poise to the role that she did to her last major dramatic role, the Hillary Clinton-a-like Elaine Barrish in 2012’s Political Animals, with little of the underlying menace or sadism required in a woman intent on owning the world’s greatest human weapon. Even with the backstory that her daughter’s death had spurred her own quest for immortality, Alexandra was considerably less intriguing than Wai Ching Ho’s Madame Gao, whose own apparent super-strength almost bested Jessica Jones.
The show even seemed to acknowledge Alexandra’s flimsiness as an antagonist in Episode 6 when she was abruptly and unexpectedly murdered by Matt’s former lover/the Chaste warrior Elektra (Elodie Yung). But the sudden switch in enemies only pointed out the deficiencies in a different character. Elektra, brought back from death by The Hand with the last of the “substance” used to revive its leaders, has always been a difficult character, a sociopathic femme fatale bent on bringing out the bad in Matt Murdock. Revived, she was even more two-dimensional, intent on taking over leadership of The Hand for reasons that seemed opaque at best. The only plot element more irritating was Matt’s persistent belief that he could detect good in a woman whose favorite hobby is killing people with Okinawan sais.
The weakness of the villains in The Defenders comes into sharper focus next to some of the better Marvel series Big Bads. The most fascinating ones, like Jon Bernthal’s antiheroic Punisher, or David Tennant’s manipulative Kilgrave, have stepped outside of the comic-book realm to illuminate darker tendencies in the real world. Kilgrave, able to verbally control anyone in his presence thanks to a virus he emitted, served as an allegory about abusive relationships and controlling partners. And the disturbing appeal of Frank Castle/The Punisher, as my colleague David Sims wrote in 2016, pointed to the increasing appeal of simplistic, ferocious enforcers with guns who specialize in rough justice.
The first teaser trailer for the upcoming spinoff The Punisher, hidden after the credits of the final episode of The Defenders, hints at Marvel’s grimmest series yet—a bloodthirsty, noirish world of crime and … well, punishment. (If Daredevil’s color palette is red, Jessica Jones’s is blue, Luke Cage’s is yellow, and Danny Rand’s is green, The Punisher’s appears to be a queasy shade of aquamarine.) In Bernthal’s Castle, the franchise already has one charismatic, haunted antihero to enact his personal code on the world. But if he doesn’t have the antagonist he deserves, he’ll be missing the most pivotal thing a superhero needs.


Why would Shonda Rhimes, the star writer of ABC’s primetime lineup for the last decade and the creator behind shows like Grey’s Anatomy and Scandal, want to leave network TV? Her position atop the highly competitive pile of broadcast-television producers was unassailable, and her batting average for launching hit series to the widest possible audience remained strong. So why would she move to Netflix, a change that was announced last week? For all of the prestige the streaming service has rapidly accrued, its audience is still subscriber-based and thus much smaller than ABC’s nationwide reach.
The simple answer, according to Rhimes’s former producing partner Mark Gordon (who worked with her on Grey’s Anatomy), is burnout. Rhimes is the showrunner of both Grey’s and Scandal, an impossible-seeming workload for any writer, and also helps with producing and shepherding other shows to series (such as How to Get Away With Murder, The Catch, and less-successful programs like Off the Map and Still Star-Crossed). “I think the Netflix opportunity will give her a chance to broaden her horizons,” Gordon said at the Edinburgh International Television Festival. “She won’t have to do 22 to 24 episodes anymore. It’s brutal and was killing her.” That may be the case, but for Rhimes and many other producers the allure of Netflix lies in more than just a lighter workload.
Netflix Believes in the Power of Thumbs
Rhimes, and her company Shondaland, is the biggest fish Netflix’s original-TV silo has reeled in so far. But plenty of other prominent names have recently committed to producing original shows for the company, including the Coen brothers (creating an anthology series called The Ballad of Buster Scruggs) and Steven Soderbergh (producing a limited series called Godless). In every case, Netflix is writing huge checks to name-brand creators who can guarantee an audience and hopefully broaden an already wide subscriber base.
But for Rhimes, the draw has to be more than financial—after all, there’s plenty of money to be made in network TV. Her move to Netflix is the clearest sign of a seismic shift in the television world, where traditional metrics of success like massive ratings, syndication deals, and prime-time slots matter less, and greater artistic independence is the ultimate goal. Right now, Netflix can offer an unprecedented blank check for each of its creators. The question is whether it can sustain it into the future.
“Shondaland’s move to Netflix is the result of a shared plan [that Netflix’s chief content officer] Ted Sarandos and I built based on my vision for myself as a storyteller and for the evolution of my company,” Rhimes said in a statement announcing the news. “Ted provides a clear, fearless space for creators at Netflix. He understood what I was looking for—the opportunity to build a vibrant new storytelling home for writers with the unique creative freedom and instantaneous global reach provided by Netflix’s singular sense of innovation. The future of Shondaland at Netflix has limitless possibilities.”
She’s right: For Netflix, the prize is Rhimes’s brand, allowing her to pursue whatever kind of programming she wants. Despite Rhimes’s stature on network TV, her shows had to go through the drawn-out production process of any new ABC series—and could still end up dead on arrival. Still Star-Crossed, which Rhimes produced for ABC, was written in October 2015, ordered to pilot in January 2016, ordered to series in May 2016, and finally premiered on May 29, 2017. Because of poor ratings and mixed reviews, it was canceled less than a month later.
That kind of production cycle is the sort of thing Netflix has thoroughly disrupted. Rhimes won’t be competing for limited time slots with all the network’s other new offerings, nor will her shows need strong ratings out of the gate to guarantee future success. That will allow her to be more deliberate in identifying the kinds of stories she wants to tell and less worried about finding the perfect launch date for a series. Netflix pushes out so much content partly because it wants viewers to have endless new things to discover; it thrives on slower word-of-mouth appeal.
At the same time, Rhimes is a network-TV storyteller through and through. Her shows are gripping, overstuffed with plot twists and shocking reveals, and usually procedural in some form (Grey’s and Scandal both have “case of the week” stories along with their serialized narratives). She’s been pumping out 22-episode seasons for many years now, keeping up with the exhausting demands of the nine-month, network-TV season.
With Netflix, Rhimes won’t be asked to produce more than 13 episodes a season—perhaps even as few as eight—so her shows might not have the air of fatigue that plagued the later seasons of Scandal (which will conclude after this upcoming seventh season). Many Netflix series could be accused of stretching their stories out to fill the demands of a 13-episode run, but Rhimes should excel in that format, trimming some of the excess from her explosive season arcs to make them hit even harder.
The freedom of streaming TV may not last forever. Netflix is in billions of dollars of debt and shows no sign of making a profit soon, planning instead to deficit spend for years as Amazon did in order to create a base of original content. But there’s still enough stability to guarantee Rhimes and other top creators the creative freedom they lack at a broadcasting conglomerate like ABC.
The most significant shift in the future, in fact, may come at ABC’s end. Its parent company Disney has already announced its own streaming service, to debut in 2019, which will feature a vast library of films and TV, along with new original content. That move will end Disney’s vaunted deal with Netflix—which has given Netflix streaming rights to the Star Wars and Marvel movies, among other titles—and open a new front in a never-ending format war. Only a broadcast network like ABC could still claim to reach virtually all of America’s viewing public. But that power is clearly starting to diminish.


The War on Drugs has one of those band names that isn’t supposed to mean anything. But listen to the Philadelphia band’s wonderful fourth album, A Deeper Understanding, and, you may, in fact, think about drugs—and more specifically, clichés surrounding drugs and rock-and-roll history.
Bandleader Adam Granduciel is a student of that history, and his music often poses questions few rock fans may have thought to ask. Like, “What if Don Henley’s ‘The Boys of Summer’ was 10 minutes long?” or “Why can’t we live inside the fourth minute of Bruce Springsteen’s ‘Jungleland’ forever?” But he taps the past with a sensibility that’s new. The sounds of ’60s psychedelia are here, yet not the questing, form-free sensibility associated with psychedelics. Signifiers of ’70s and ’80s excess also abound, but the twitchy bravado or desperate intensity that critics might have described as “coked out” doesn’t. Rather, these songs pulse steadily and patiently, doling out climaxes of euphoria at carefully considered intervals. With apologies for using one of the iffiest tropes of record reviewing: This is classic rock on MDMA.
Grizzly Bear Capture the Beauty of Connection
Granduciel and a shifting cast of band members have been recording under the War on Drugs name since 2005, with their greatest commercial and critical breakthrough arriving via 2014’s Lost in the Dream. That album’s standouts “Red Eyes” and “Under the Pressure” perfected a formula for immersing listeners: Over a chugging and unfailing rhythm, the band tunefully layered guitar heroics, vintage keyboards, and Dylanesque vocals—all cloaked in dreamy reverb. The songs infiltrated streaming-service playlists, publications’ year-end lists, and the consciousness of the rock mogul Jimmy Iovine, who proclaimed the band’s impending hugeness. Granduciel signed to a major label, Atlantic Records, and has now delivered an album of spectacular scale and ambition.

It’s the rhythm that first defines most of the songs on A Deeper Understanding, with drum and bass interlocking for, say, a Creedence Clearwater Revival shamble, or a Tom Petty toe-tap. Once established, the groove is almost never interrupted—even as the song mutates for five, six, or 12 minutes. This is a technique most reminiscent of ’70s German rockers like Neu!, but also, structurally, of techno and house music. For Granduciel, it’s a way to achieve something novel and, perhaps counterintuitively, unpredictable. He told Vice, “I don’t like drums dictating the song; like when you hear a fill and then you know the chorus is coming up.”
The reliable hum lends itself to easy listening—and easy criticism. You can clean your house or host a dinner party to A Deeper Understanding, absolutely, and as it filters in you might find yourself thinking, “I like this song, the one with the pretty piano part,” or “this one, which reminds me of ‘Free Bird,’” only to eventually realize there are a number of tracks that fit those descriptions. Drive-by absorption might also make certain listeners write off the band as it transgresses common ideas of coolness and taste. The singer Mark Kozelek, for example, infamously once heard The War on Drugs playing on a distant festival stage and sneered at their “beer commercial lead-guitar shit.” That wasn’t an inaccurate description, to be fair—but it sold short the full scope of the music.
It’s the close listen that reveals Granduciel’s real talent. In interviews, he’s talked about obsessively fussing over every sound in the mix, and the payoff from that attention is serious: Each instrumental element is crisp and fully rendered, familiar yet fresh. Synthetic strings, for example, may not have been this capable of producing actual emotion, since, well, the early-’80s that Granduciel so often references. Some of the album’s most powerful guitar-shredding passages, played full blast, will make it seem as if an amp is plugged in in your living room.
But the point is not only the feel of these sounds. Granduciel writes generous, poppy hooks and deploys them at the moment of maximum possible impact. The guitar line that defines “Strangest Thing”—one of the best songs of the year—doesn’t arrive until 2 minutes and 40 seconds in, transforming what had been a wistful comedown tune into something massive, like “Purple Rain” played on  cathedral bells. On that song and elsewhere, it becomes clear Granduciel’s arrangements aren’t nearly as repetitive as they may initially seem. Melodies emerge, move among instruments, and then seem to die. Rebirth, minutes later, is always possible.

In the rare occasions that Granduciel varies the rhythm of a song, the effect on the listener is like that of a seismic event. I jumped a few times listening to the awesome new-age-y workout of “In Chains”: first when a drum fill did, for once, announce a chorus, and later when the song’s heartbeat hiccuped into the classic “Be My Baby” pattern. Contrastingly, the 11-minute single “Thinking of a Place” unwinds into a lush, long portion without drums. When the song’s main groove snaps back in, it’s like a magician pulling off a reveal—scarily sudden, but also smooth. Such moments show that through the ever-pretty, ever-nostalgic haze of his arrangements, Granduciel wants to keep the senses and the mind awake.
Does music this visceral need to mean anything? Granduciel sings in a pleasing but unvarying rasp, and he likes obvious rhymes: “All my waiting was in vain / I walked alone in pain / Through an early morning rain,” etc. Generally the songs tell of striving, endlessly, for bliss—in another person, in a place, or in one’s self. So if it seems on-the-nose for him to sing of a sky “painted in a wash of indigo” or of “somewhere they can make it rain diamonds,” it’s worth remembering that music, across eras, has often been about envisioning paradise through sound. He’s executing that mission with extreme care, finesse, and—most remarkably—consistency. The best passages of A Deeper Understanding are shot through with sadness simply because they eventually have to end, but with this high, you can expect another wave soon.


For years now, America’s best TV drama has consistently been one of its least watched. With Halt and Catch Fire now in its fourth and final season, ratings don’t really matter anymore, especially since the show is airing on AMC on Saturday nights (an audience dead zone if there ever was one). What’s important is that the series gets to complete its story, and will likely be discovered as a hidden gem on some streaming service once it’s finished and easy to binge. That’s because Halt has told the best, most definitive account of the birth of the computer age, the rise of the internet, and Silicon Valley’s never-ending cycle of creative booms and busts—and it’s done so without losing its grasp on the people in the eye of the storm.
The show’s creators Christopher Cantwell and Christopher C. Rogers have spun this tale while radically reinventing it each season, finding original ways to approach the familiar tale of two technology revolutions (the rise of personal computing and the dotcom boom). Beginning in Dallas’s Silicon Prairie in 1983 and now concluding in the Bay Area circa 1994, the show has chronicled the invention of the operating system, online gaming, social networks, internet browsers, and now (in Season 4, which kicked off with its first two episodes Saturday) the first search engines. With each shift, the series captures the thrill, and existential horror, that comes from creating something new and then trying to make it profitable.
Halt and Catch Fire’s Sad Ballad of the Future
Halt and Catch Fire’s tremendous third season saw its characters pull up roots to pilot ambitious projects in California, like eager prospectors going west for gold, and suffering creative and personal hardships as a result. Joe MacMillan (Lee Pace) is the show’s take on a Don Draper-type iconoclast, someone who endures in the industry by mixing egomaniacal magnetism with a charismatic form of bullying. Last season, he tried to convert his messianic image into a genuine push to create an early web browser, recognizing the impending importance of the world wide web. Prickly genius coder Cameron Howe (Mackenzie Davis) and her business partner Donna Clark (Kerry Bishé) looked to turn their indie games company Mutiny into a name brand with venture-capital funding.
But business, as it often does, got in the way of everyone’s starry-eyed ideals, and the show made a drastic time jump to a less-secure future (the early 1990s), where Donna and Cameron (whose partnership had been the emotional spine of the show) had an irreconcilable falling out, and Joe found himself tortured and alone after years of trying to have everything his way. In Season 4, Halt leaps forward again, thrusting us into the mid-’90s, where the internet is no longer a hobbyist fad but a crucial consumer market, and investors are working to figure out the best way to translate it to the widest audience possible.
Joe is now in business with Donna’s ex-husband Gordon Clark (Scoot McNairy), a grumpy engineer with a knack for encouraging the ambitions of those around him. Together, they run an internet service provider that’s fending off competition from bigger players like America Online. Gordon, as usual, is happy staying put in the business he’s built for himself. Meanwhile, Joe is busy digging for the next big thing, even writing the names of every website (there were only a few hundred in the mid-’90s) on Post-It notes in his basement, in hopes of detecting grander patterns like a deranged conspiracy theorist.
Joe’s original plan was to build a browser with Cameron, who is now a game designer disgusted by the violent, Mortal Kombat­-loving fanbase of her industry, but his project now resembles something people today take for granted: a search engine, a tool that can trawl through the deep recesses of the web and find whatever random piece of information you might be looking for. As usual, Halt and Catch Fire is less interested in the technical particulars of how such a thing would be designed. It’s more fascinated by creative sparks—what might drive Joe, a man seeking order in a world that has constantly upended his fantasies, to catalog the entire internet, all the world’s data, in a single place.
Quickly, Cameron is brought into Joe’s web of intrigue. In the season’s second episode, the two have a days-long conversation on the phone, including long periods of silence and sleep, where they wrestle with deep philosophical questions, chat inanely, and even play Doom together online, trying to figure out what inspired them to work together in the first place and how they can rekindle that partnership. Their on-off romance is one of the show’s ongoing arcs, but its tempestuousness serves as a perfect metaphor for Silicon Valley’s habit of falling in love with a new tech trend and just as quickly abandoning it—a cycle Joe and Cameron seemed cursed to repeat.
Working against them is Donna, once Cameron’s ally in the world of indie computing, now a shark-like businesswoman in venture capital who finds herself on a parallel path to her former friend. Her efforts to create a search engine are reminiscent of those of so many gargantuan tech companies—cobbling together algorithms and proprietary pieces of code to create a functional new juggernaut backed with blue-chip investments, a Goliath ready to take down Joe and Cameron’s lovingly crafted invention.
It’s a story that should be familiar to anyone who’s ever read one word about the success of Microsoft or wondered whatever happened to once dominant pieces of software like Netscape Navigator. Halt and Catch Fire succeeds by making its tech narrative not a dry history lesson, but rather a battle of wills between four very flawed, compelling characters, each possessed of the kinds of manic ambition and tendency toward self-destruction that make for the best television drama. If you haven’t gotten to Halt and Catch Fire in this heavily programmed era of peak TV, you’re forgiven—but it’s not too late to catch up for what should be a marvelous sendoff.


I had written five books for Scott Moyers, following him as he moved from editing jobs at Scribner’s to Random House and then to Penguin Press. We worked well together, and in part thanks to his strong editing hand, my last three books had been bestsellers.
So what happened when I finished years of work and sent him the manuscript of my sixth book stunned me. In fact, I was in for a series of surprises.
They began about 18 months ago, after I emailed to him that manuscript, a dual appreciation of Winston Churchill and George Orwell. When I had begun work on it, in 2013, some old friends of mine thought the subject was a bit obscure. Why would anyone care how two long-dead Englishmen, a conservative politician and a socialist journalist who never met, had dealt with the polarized political turmoil of the 1930s and the world war that followed? By 2016, as people on both the American left and right increasingly seemed to favor opinion over fact, the book had become more timely.
But two weeks after I sent him the manuscript, I received a most unhappy e-mail back from him. “I fear that the disconnect over what this book should be might be fundamental,” Scott wrote to me, clearly pained to do so. What I had sent him was exactly the book he had told me not to write. He had warned me, he reminded me, against writing an extended book review that leaned on the weak reed of themes rather than stood on a strong foundation of narrative. I had put the works before the two men, he told me, and that would not do.
There was more. But in short, he pissed all over it. It was not that he disliked it. It was that he fucking hated it. I was taken aback—I had enjoyed the process of researching and writing the book. So, I had expected, a reader would too. No, Scott said, the way you’ve done this doesn’t work.
Writing in Someone Else’s World
Partly, I was crushed. But even more, I was puzzled. How could I have been so off in my perception of my manuscript? This wasn’t a hurried work of a few months. For three years, I had steeped myself in Churchill, Orwell, and their times, reading hundreds of books, which were scattered in piles across the floor of my office in the attic of my home in Maine. The biggest of the piles was books by Churchill himself. The second biggest was diaries, memoirs, and collected letters by British politicians and writers of the 1930s and ’40s.
Scott followed up with a lengthy letter—I think it was about 10 pages—detailing his concerns. I live on an island on the coast of Maine. I received the letter the day before a major snowstorm. A few hours after it arrived, several old trees along the road downed power lines, taking the internet with them.
Cut off from email and other off-island communication, I spent that snowy day reading and rereading Scott’s letter. The next morning dawned crystalline and blue. I climbed into my pickup truck and drove slowly over 15 miles of icy backroads to the library in Blue Hill, on the mainland, where the internet was still working. The whole world was sparkling. I sat down in the sun-splashed reading room of the library, powered up my laptop, and sent a note to my literary agent, Andrew Wylie, asking him if Scott, being so negative, actually wanted to back out of the book altogether. If he really wanted out, then I didn’t want to dive into the job of rewriting it.
Andrew’s reply came flying back, within minutes. (He may be the world’s fastest email replier.) He also knows Scott well. No, Andrew replied, Scott is just trying to emphasize to you how much work you have ahead of you to make this a good book. I found this reassuring. I even felt contented, for reasons I don’t completely understand. If Scott was still on board, well then so was I.
* * *
I spent the next five months, from mid-January to mid-June of 2016, redoing the whole book, rethinking it from top to bottom.
I began by taking his letter and his marked-up version of the manuscript with me to Austin, Texas, where my wife and I were taking a break in February from the long Maine winter. (Austin is a great town for live music, food, and hiking—and its winter feels to me like Maine in the summer.) I sat in the backyard and read and reread Scott’s comments. I didn’t argue with them. Rather, I pondered them. If he thinks that, I would ask myself, how can I address the problem? I underlined sections. At one point he pleaded in a note scrawled in the margin, “If you would only defer to the narrative, you could get away with murder.” I liked that comment so much I typed it across the top of the first page of the second draft, so I would see it every morning as I began my day’s work.   
The next surprise, about three weeks into this process, was coming to realize, over the days of thinking about it, that Scott’s criticisms were spot-on. I saw that if I followed his suggestions and revamped the book, with a new structure that emphasized biography and told the stories of the two men chronologically, the book would be much better. I emailed a note to Scott. “You are right,” it said. This wasn’t so much an apology as the beginning of the next phase of work.   
“Only a good writer would be able to say that,” he graciously responded.
Next, I disassembled the manuscript. Writing is a lot like carpentry, hammering and sawing and sanding. In this case, I was like a builder taking down a house I had just finished constructing. Scott had persuaded me that my blueprint was off, so I disassembled the whole thing. I stacked my lumber, bricks, window frames, glass, and cement. And then, after a couple more weeks of taking notes on how to do it differently, writing signposts on my new blueprint, I set to reconstruction.
I dug a new foundation, lining it with solid chronology. I wrote a second note to myself at the top of the manuscript: “If it is not chronological, why not?” That is, I would permit myself on occasion to deviate from the march of time, but I needed to articulate a pretty strong reason before doing so.
That brought the third surprise. Making the text follow the order of events was easier than I had expected—and it made more sense. Anecdotes that I had thought could only go in one place, in a discussion of a theme, actually would fit easily into other places, where they fit in time. In fact, they tended to work better when they appeared in the order in which they had occurred in reality. They often slipped in seamlessly, not needing to be hammered in with an introduction or explanation. Like a board prepared for a well-constructed floor, they just slid into place.
The fourth surprise was how much I came to enjoy the rewrite job. In fact, during that time of redrafting, from winter through spring and into summer in 2016, my wife often remarked on how happy I was. When it was time for me to make lunch—usually I’d defrost a homemade soup—I’d come down from my attic office with a smile on my face.
Over the following months the new version of the book fell into place. I still needed help from my “critical readers”—trusted friends with writing skills and different perspectives who also read the manuscript at about this time.
One old friend, a seasoned magazine editor, basically told me that Scott was entirely right: Get out of the way and let the stories tell themselves. Another reader, a San Francisco lawyer specializing in software and communications law, pushed me to patch the holes in the logic of some of my arguments. Two journalist friends, one a writer on secondary education, the other an editor at Politico, helped me think my way through to a new conclusion that wove together the strands of the book—and, oddly enough, took me to Martin Luther King Jr.’s “Letter From Birmingham City Jail,” an essay solidly in the tradition of Orwell’s best commentary. All of them made me think through again what I was trying to say, and why I thought that was important.
In the process, I went back and reread a lot of Churchill and even more of Orwell. The latter was the tougher nut. Churchill’s subject ultimately always was himself, so he lends himself to narrative. Orwell’s subject was the world, so he gave away little of himself in his essays and novels, and not even much in his diaries. In his daily entries there, he was more likely to note the health of his chickens than he was that of his wife, who would die of cancer at an early age, during World War II. But with time I learned to read better between Orwell’s lines. I also went back to the works of Malcolm Muggeridge and other intellectuals and literary journalists of mid-20th century Britain for more context. I think I found what I needed. It felt like good, honest work, like I had not only rebuilt that house but had used an improved design that made it more durable, and easier to use.   
* * *
I sent the new manuscript to Scott in June of 2016, a bit over a year ago. This time he loved it.
In July, when I was in New Haven for a few days, I took the train down to New York’s Pennsylvania Station to talk to him, to do some planning, and to celebrate. We met at an ancient steakhouse in midtown Manhattan. It was a summertime Monday, and the joint was empty. Hundreds of clay pipes hung from the low ceiling, one of them supposedly belonging to Abraham Lincoln.
Over our Caesar salads with sliced steak, I asked Scott why he had been so rough on me the previous winter. “Sometimes my job is to be an asshole,” he explained with equanimity. I wasn’t startled at this. At one point on an earlier book, when I told him how stressed I was feeling, he had replied, a bit airily, I thought, “Oh, every good book has at least one nervous breakdown in it.”
Near the end of our lunch, Scott offered one more wise observation about the writing process: “The first draft is for the writer. The second draft is for the editor. The last draft is for the reader.”
At that lunch, he knew how grateful I was to him. Churchill and Orwell: The Fight for Freedom is a much better book for his powerful intervention. In retrospect, that first draft was herky-jerky and sometimes portentous. It also frequently was hard to read without rewarding the reader for making the effort. The final version, published in May of this year, pops right along.
That’s not just me who says so. Many reviewers have commented on how cleanly the book is written. So, contrary to my initial expectation, the hardest book for me to write became the easiest one to read. Readers seem to agree, recently putting this dual biography of two long-dead Englishmen on the list of bestsellers in hardcover nonfiction.
Most art has a public face—music is played, paintings are displayed, plays are enacted, movies are filmed and often watched by groups. Books tend to be more private, from one person’s act of writing to another’s act of reading. Most mysterious of all is the hidden middle stage, the offstage act of editing. Yet sometimes it can make all the difference.


This post contains spoilers through Season 7, Episode 6 of Game of Thrones.
Jon Snow is about to die. Again. This time, his imminent death is coming at the bony hands of the army of the dead: Jon, attacked by wights, has plunged into an icy lake. Torn at by zombies and closed in on by frigid waters, he seems to be done for. And, yet—here is a spoiler that, if you have been watching Game of Thrones, will be not much of a spoiler at all—Jon survives. Maybe because he’s a really strong swimmer who is not at all weighed down by the layers of animal pelts he had donned specifically for their heft. Maybe because of the Targaryen fire that warms his blood. Maybe because his soul is buoyed by his growing romance with his aun—
Is Game of Thrones on Thin Ice?
But we are not meant to question such things. Nor are we meant to question it when, during the epic battle between the Night King and the Guardians of the Known World, Tormund gets saved, at the last second, by the Hound. Or when Benjen gallops into the battle at the very last minute, sacrificing himself to the zombie-horde so that Jon might ride again, even though both of them totally could have fit on that raft horse. Or when Daenerys herself arrives on the scene at precisely the right moment: to save the remaining Guardians, Jon, finally, included.
In some ways, those moments are simply continuations of approaches Game of Thrones has long taken in its storytelling: plot twists, destabilized time, a steadfast faith in magic—the kinds of powers that merge the world of the show and the world beyond it. The kinds that come from authors, and showrunners, and the surly demands of narrative. More and more, though, as the show approaches its final season, it has been losing its reassurance of narrative control. Its seams are showing. Its stories are cracking like so much zombie-ice. We are not meant to question—this is a fictional and fantastical world, after all—and yet it’s becoming more and more difficult not to. So while the show’s current season is establishing mysteries about sororicide, and incest, and zombie-dragons, it’s also establishing a broader one: Does this story still know what it’s doing? Will viewers’ longstanding faith in it, in the end, be rewarded?
* * *
Game of Thrones is in many ways a show about faith: in gods, in others, in oneself. But it also demands, as any such show will, another kind of faith—in storytelling. In authorship. In the universe that is being constructed as a setting for the other things—a universe full of its own authors. Who knows, in this world, things others do not? Who decides how the stories will play out, and how the games will be played? The Lord of Light, and the Three-Eyed Raven, and Bran, and Hodor, and time travel, and resurrections, and dragons, and magic: Their presence has made Game of Thrones not just a work of fantasy, but also, in its way, a work of logic. This is a universe with its own rules to be obeyed—and, for the audience, its own disbeliefs to be suspended. Wildfire works as a weapon because, in the show’s world, it literally works as a weapon. Bran becomes the Three-Eyed Raven because we watch him in the transformation. Arya has become “no one,” we understand, because we have watched her become so many someones.
That so little of this has seemed the tautology it is has been a credit to the show’s execution: Game of Thrones, with the help of its hefty budget, has been exceptionally good at the art of universe-construction. It has been fantasy that has, against all odds, made sense. What is dead may never die has long been an element of the show; the remarkable thing is that, for the most part, the death-fleeing has seemed a natural extension of the order of things rather than a violation of it.
And yet here are some things that happened on Sunday’s show: Viewers learned that Arya carries around a set of rubbery death-masks in a tasteful leather satchel. And that ravens can travel, seemingly, at the speeds of turbo-jets. And that Gendry, on the ground, can somehow do the same. And that the army of the dead is as resourceful as it is populous, apparently, able as it was, after the battle was fought, to procure the massive chains with which to remove a dead dragon from icy waters. Maybe there’s a Home Depot conveniently located next to the Arby’s off the I(ce)-95?
In some ways, sure, all that is simply an extension of the disbelief-suspension that has always been a requirement of the show—the deus-ex-machina twists that have been presented not as easy solutions to narrative problems, but rather as evidence of the show’s cosmic surefootedness. Again and again, fate, which is to say the show’s authors, collectively, intercedes. The battle is lost—until Stannis makes a surprise appearance. Arya’s cover will be blown by Ser Amory—until Jaqen H’ghar kills him the second before he can tell her secrets. Daenerys and her small band of loyal advisors are doomed on Meereen, enclosed on by enemies—until Drogon shows up to save them, just in the nick of time. Jaime, in the line of dragon fire, is at the last minute pushed into a river by Bronn—and, then, rather than sinking to the bottom, as one might expect given the Kingslayer’s clothing (armor) and prosthetic (a hand made of gold), he survives by means unknown. Showrunners are their own kinds of gods; they tell their own kinds of truths.
But, now, winter has come. The series is coming to a close. The time for resolution is here. And the show has established, at this point, many more questions than answers. Is Arya still Arya, or someone—something—else? Will Bran, notably absent in Sunday’s episode, provide an as-yet-unseen salvation? Will the White Walker dragon breathe fire, or something else? Will the battle that will inevitably ensue be the final song of fire and ice? Is Jon Snow, infallible and invincible, the Drowned God? Will he and Daenerys—“Dany”—join the long line of coupled-off Targaryens?
They’re enticing questions. But “Beyond the Wall,” on Sunday, did not bode well for their answers. This is a season, after all, that has at times seemed almost overly aware of Thrones’s success as a cultural phenomenon. The Ed Sheeran cameo. The many, many meme-friendly moments. The plots that seem designed to get from one spectacular set piece to the next. As my colleague Spencer Kornhaber put it, “The fuzziness with time just adds to the impression that this is a story driven by coincidence and expedience rather than logic.” And it suggests a certain sloppiness in a show that has otherwise been so precise in its world-building—a sloppiness that asks other questions: Will Game of Thrones keep jumping sharks? Will it nuke fridges? Will it take the good faith it has built up over nearly seven seasons and squander it? Could it, in the end, go the way of Lost, its myths busted, its key questions unresolved?
Or: Is the show simply building, with all its moments of easy absurdity, to some final, pivotal plot twist?
Sunday’s grand battle followed in one of the traditions Game of Thrones has established over its seven seasons: It provided an epic event not to close out the season, but as a capper to the season’s penultimate episode. Next week’s finale will ostensibly yield, if past formulas are any indication, an episode that will pick up the pieces and start to make sense of the new world. It might provide another epic battle, cannily staged and stunningly shot. It might provide another extension of the question fans have been asking since those squawking dragons first crawled over Daenerys’s sooty shoulders at the end of the show’s first season: What if the Night King gets one? What then? We’ll soon find out. And we can safely assume that Jon Snow, saved by fate and fortune and the workings of a show that needs him, will be there to find out along with us.


Every week for the seventh season of Game of Thrones, three Atlantic staffers will discuss new episodes of the HBO drama. Because no screeners were made available to critics in advance this year, we'll be posting our thoughts in installments.
Spencer Kornhaber: In their post-episode interview with HBO, Game of Thrones showrunners David Benioff and D.B. Weiss said that they plot the show by mapping out the big moments they want each installment to end with. This week’s ending was as big as they come: A dead dragon was dredged from an icy pond and reanimated with evil energy. If you don’t get a dark thrill out of seeing Viserion open his scaly lid to reveal a blue marble, there’s no point in watching Game of Thrones at all.
Game of Thrones: No Choice at All
But Benioff and Weiss’s emphasis on building the show primarily for payoffs is taking a toll on the quality of Game of Thrones in general—consistent logic seems to drive the action less than it once did. You could feel the strain throughout “Beyond the Wall,” this season’s battle-heavy blockbuster. To be sure, the cinematography and effects did deliver the goods we’ve come to expect from the previous blow-outs like “Blackwater” and “Battle of the Bastards.” But sitting through the episode, it was hard not to relate to the wight that Jon & co. bagged: trapped, disoriented, and frequently screaming in frustration.
It didn’t help that the premise of the night’s big plot line was built on a foundation brittler than a frozen lake. The plan to go grab a zombie and present it to Cersei relies on the notion that Cersei might well be persuaded to band with her enemies to fight a common foe. But by now, viewers know better than to expect a smidge of concern for the greater good from her. So should Tyrion and Jon, the architects of the plan. If Cersei’s going to cease hostilities with Daenerys, it’ll only be so she can stab her in the back, not because she’s been impressed by a screechy corpse in a bag.
The show did try to acknowledge the insanity of the mission in the scene between Daenerys and Tyrion, the season’s umpteenth dissection of the tension between waging war with brutal effectiveness or righteous care. Would-be heroes are always going off and doing stupid things, complained Dany (can I still call her that?). But if she really thought Jon’s mission was stupid, why did she sign off on it in the first place? We get it, she’s inwardly conflicted. But the way she pings between trusting Tyrion’s cleverness and then questioning his motives before flying off to use her dragons to kill feels more determined by the needs of the overarching plot than anything we’ve come to understand about Dany herself. Like the Northern Lords that Sansa fretted about to Littlefinger, Khaleesi has become a weathervane.
This was an extra-long episode, but it’s worth noting that it wouldn’t have been so extra-long with all the exposition foisted upon the snowy expedition. The scenes of chitchat between Jon, Gendry, Tormund, Thoros, Beric, Sandor, and Jorah felt like a remedial refresher on the backstories of some characters who’ve been out of the spotlight for some time. Tormund—dispensing advice about surviving both the cold and lack of mating material—was the star entertainer of the road trip. But when he spoke of making big babies with Brienne, I got worried. Nothing says a character is about to die in battle like them planning for a happy future.
Fortunately for Tormund fans, and sadly for Brotherhood Without Banners fans if such people exist, the sacrificial soldier of the group turned out to be Thoros. (Well, him and the various expendable footmen who went strangely unacknowledged by any of the dialogue.) The fatal encounter with the rotted bear made for one of the spooky highlights of the night, easing both viewers and characters into the land of the dead. I’m curious why, though, the writers decided to have Thoros survive his initial wounds only to freeze later. It’s not like we need reminding of how cold it is out there.
In any case, the conceit of having the living end up besieged by the dead on an island in the middle of a lake was intriguing—a way to make this episode’s violent climax different from all the previous ones. But the execution of this inherently far-fetched set-up forced some nagging, distracting questions as the action unfolded. Like: Might not the wights build a bridge of bodies a la ants crossing water or World War Z’s undead scaling a wall? And didn’t any of them have projectiles—rocks, big chunks of ice, skulls, spears capable of killing dragons?
Also: How long were our guys shivering on that island, anyway? Plenty has already been written about how Thrones has lately become more liberal in its use of the fast-forward button when it comes to travel. Some pace-quickening is understandable, given how much story there is to get through. Still, it was hard to avoid a sense of whiplash when Gendry ran to send a raven and Dany flew her dragons north of the Wall within the space of a few minutes of screentime. The fuzziness with time just adds to the impression that this is a story driven by coincidence and expedience rather than logic. The dragons, or the undead fire-wielding uncle, will always show up at exactly the right moment.
There’s no denying, though, the fun of seeing those dragons descending on the dead. Instead of conveying carnage and tragedy as when Dany attacked the Lannister army, this was a downright beautiful portrayal of her firepower—which is fair, as no one is mourning the dead getting deader. And how freaky was that sequence of Viserion getting javelined by the Night King? The music cut out; dragon blood bloomed; the shot of the dead beast sliding into the water is one that will stay with me. In the moment, Emilia Clarke made a memorable choice to play her reaction as shocked blankness. After the battle, in the scene of her standing on The Wall and the scene of her bonding with the newly obedient Jon, the depth of her grief was plenty clear.
As for the other thread of the night: The Winterfell narrative was no less frustrating than the north-of-The-Wall stuff, and it didn’t even have the payoff of dragon fire. It’s true that the sisterly resentment between Arya and Sansa is particularly epic, and yes, Arya has become colder and stranger because of everything she’s been through. But on a fundamental level, I don’t buy that Arya is the person we see here: supremely uncharitable to her sister and easily manipulated by a man who everyone knows to be a manipulator. Then again, when she handed Sansa her dagger it may have hinted that her maniacal pose has more complexity to it than it seemed for much of this episode.
What do you think, David—is grief over a dragon blinding me to this episode’s virtues? And what’s with all the near-drownings of major characters this season?
David Sims: I’m sick of all the near-drownings on this show but particularly any involving Jon Snow, a character who has already died and been brought back to life, which makes any effort to wring tension out of his potential fate all the more insulting. But hey, this was a fairly insulting episode, one that piled frustrating, illogical twists atop a plot (Jon’s quest beyond the wall) that already felt tenuous.
Last week, I defended the silliness of the “let’s kidnap a zombie” caper as a fanciful decision rooted in character work—we understand why each of these bandits is up there, serving the larger causes they’ve always fought for. This week, that all came quickly crumbling down when it became clear Jon’s whole plan was to cause as big a ruckus as possible, then hope for not one, but two dei ex machina (don’t forget poor Benjen) to bail them out of their self-made disaster. All this to try and sway the mind of Cersei, who has never shown the slightest interest in serving the realm beyond expanding her own grip on power. As you said, Spencer, it quickly became apparent that the episode was geared toward one big, memorable image—zombie dragon—and it didn’t care how much nonsense we had to endure to get it.
Now, I’ll admit, I like the zombie dragon. The White Walkers of Game of Thrones have always felt worthy of a screaming Led Zeppelin guitar solo every time they appear onscreen, and what better way to mark that than by giving them an ice-breathing dragon? But Daenerys’s loss felt too forced, too much like behind-the-scenes scorekeeping to keep us interested in next season. Three dragons seem too easy for taking down a horde of wights? Well, how about two regular dragons versus one ice dragon? Now the scales are a little better balanced.
The other big thing this episode was building toward was that romantic moment between Daenerys and Jon. She should have been berating him for his foolishness, but instead there was obvious tenderness between the pair as he convalesced and she pledged to fight the White Walkers with him to avenge her lost baby Viserion. Again, I understand nudging these two characters together, but there was nothing emotional about this epic confrontation on the ice and no real reason for Daenerys to suddenly feel closer to Jon afterwards. Thrones is suddenly going through the motions and hoping the big-budget action extravaganzas will distract from that. They do, to an extent—I sure liked watching that dragon boil those zombies—but it’s not really the show I signed up for.
There have been instances in both this and the previous season where George R. R. Martin’s guiding hand has felt particularly lacking, and it’s usually for big climactic moments like this, the kind of easy sequences Martin has always eschewed. Sometimes it works better than others—Cersei’s detonation of the Sept was pretty hard to beat—but any time a major plot twist happens, I immediately find myself wondering if it’s really part of Martin’s plan for the future books. For years, fans have wondered who the third “head of the dragon” will be—if Daenerys and Jon are two potential allies, who would ride the third dragon alongside them? The show’s decision to kill one dragon off is an economical way of handling that mystery, but I doubt that Martin is going for anything quite so simple.
Like many an epic episode of Thrones, this hour-plus saga gave us very little else to pay attention to, since so much running time was devoted to Jon and the snow patrol doing battle in the wilds. So the only other major plot point was Arya’s confrontation with Sansa, which was so abysmally written I started fantasizing about outlandish future plot twists like “The Waif is somehow wearing Arya’s face” (don’t worry, I know she isn’t really). If the show is trying to make a point about Arya being turned into a cold-blooded psychopath over the years, it’s doing about as ham-fisted and poor a job as I could imagine.
The entire point of Arya’s arc last year—with the Braavosi theater company and her disinterest in cold-blooded murder—was that her empathetic spirit had not yet died out. And while I know Arya’s thirst for vengeance is strong, and her childhood grudge against Sansa was a big deal in Season One, her sudden irrationality on this issue was just eye-rollingly one-dimensional. If she cares so much about her family, she’d do better to stick up for her sister rather than blaming Joffrey’s psychotic violence on her. If this is something the show wants to pursue long-term, then it’s going to be quite the frustrating viewing experience. Then again, maybe that’s just classic penultimate-episode blues, and all of the reasons for these machinations will become clear in next week’s finale. Until then, I’m as baffled as one of Littlefinger’s patsies. Lenika, can you shed any light?
Lenika Cruz: Speaking of light, I want to go back first to the conversation between Beric Dondarrion—who here looked very Westerosi Walter White—and Jon Snow, the two people on the show we know have come back from the dead. Both confronted the inscrutability of the Lord of Light’s desires, something followers of R’hllor have long acknowledged. “What’s the point in serving a god if none of us knows what he wants?” Jon said, making me for a second think he was talking instead about the story’s authors rather than some mystical fiery deity. Beric admitted to not knowing the exact purpose for their resurrection but nonetheless suggested he at least knew what he was fighting for: people who can’t defend themselves. “Maybe we don’t need to understand any more than that. Maybe that’s enough,” he told Jon. Being of the stock of heroes and martyrs, Jon instantly agreed.
This episode’s chitchat didn’t bother me as much as it did you, Spencer—in part because the remedial refresher in the characters’ backstories was helpful, but also because I found these pairings somewhat enlightening. (I should add here that much of what irked you both about “Beyond the Wall,” also irked me, but having had a little time to think on this, I’m going to try and push back a little on some of your assessments.) Jon and Jorah finally got to talk properly about their fathers and their own relationships with each of the dead men. They spoke of the deep injustice of the deaths of Jeor Mormont and Ned Stark, two men who lived lives of honor and yet who met undignified ends: the late Lord Commander slain by Night’s Watch mutineers (like Jon himself) and Ned Stark on the executioner’s block for a treason he didn’t commit.
Other conversations, too, returned to that favorite Thrones theme of yore: skepticism of the romantic hero trope. Dany (sorry, I still gotta call her that) and Tyrion spoke, with little subtlety, about how heroes “do stupid things, and they die.” Thoros lived long enough after suffering his zombie-bear-inflicted wounds to destroy Jorah’s impression of him as “the bravest man I ever saw” and admit it was drunkenness that led to his legendary charging of the breach at Pyke with his flaming sword, not courage. Tormund accepted Jon’s explanation for Gendry’s presence (“he’s a good fighter”), saying, “Smart people don’t come up here looking for the dead.” And then the fire-kissed wildling, who lauded Mance Rayder as “a brave man, a proud man,” implicitly gave Jon permission to bend the knee to Daenerys to avoid the slaughter of his people (“How many of his people died for his pride?” Tormund said of Mance, apparently coming around to the thinking of Ned Stark when he traded his honor for the lives of his children.)
All these takedowns of heroism—as a trait often indistinguishable from foolishness, drunkenness, vanity—made the final showdown that much more disappointing on a larger narrative level, I’ll give you that. (As far as spectacle and effects go, it was terrific.) On one hand, you could argue that all these stupid heroes getting out alive, after the show once again heavily debated the stupidity of their mission, is subversive. And I know Thoros’s death, and the impending death of Melisandre, is supposed to weaken the audience’s expectation that, if someone important dies, someone can easily bring them back. But the fact that these men (minus the faceless expendables) were delivered at precisely the moment they needed deliverance—from a plot perspective—completely undermined the show’s apparent efforts at self-awareness. Regardless of what Benioff and Weiss say, all the head-scratching set-up and predictable dragon/Benjen ex machina wasn’t enough to justify Ice Viserion on its own, as cool as that image was. To me, the fact that no major characters lost their lives, or worse, exposed the insincerity of all that “heroes are dumb” dialogue. Comeuppance, in the world of Thrones, would have been something like quintessential tortured hero Jon Snow being captured and turned into a White Walker, not Coldhands swooping in to save the day for another foolhardy Stark.
It’s worth bringing up Bran here to connect things back to the Winterfell intrigue—the new Three-Eyed Raven (insert college-freshman-drug-use jokes here) has been woefully underused, to the point where the only explanation is that connecting the dots would neutralize too much dramatic irony and give the writers less plot to play with. Which is a terrible reason, of course. So, even acknowledging that a lot of the Sansa-Arya tension could be resolved by Bran putting them both straight—he has already proven to each of them that he’s legit—I’m going to try to argue that this particular thread isn’t quite as unbelievable as you think it is, David and Spencer. Arya’s arc last season was, indeed, about how she hadn’t fully lost her ability to empathize—but that was before the Waif killed her, before she stole a bunch of faces from the House of Black and White, before she murdered all the Freys, before she had to confront the cold reality that the castle she grew up in is a very different place now.
Before her return to Winterfell, Arya was still clinging to the piece of her that was still a child—the girl crouching by the foot of the statue of Baelor when her father was dragged before a jeering crowd (the “Beyond the Wall” director, Alan Taylor, helmed that episode, too), the girl who loved her direwolf, the girl who hid away the sword her brother gave her and never relinquished her name. For all her traveling and training, Arya has been forged by much different fires than the ones that made the steely and strong new Lady of Winterfell. Arya knows how to manipulate, yes, but I worry that she thinks too highly of her abilities to sneak and kill—the mindset and techniques that helped her survive and avenge when surrounded by enemies might not so quickly melt away, even in the relative safety of her childhood home. What looks like cunning and strength in one context can quickly become hubris and delusions of invincibility in another.
If we take this subplot at face value, it’s proof that the weapons each sister had to hone to stay alive to this point are vastly different; trained at each other, these weapons could prove deadly. After all, Arya is behaving much like the other tyrants Sansa has known—brandishing a knife, threatening to cut her up, forcing her to keep quiet or be destroyed. My first thought, David, was that Littlefinger is hoping to raise Sansa’s hackles enough to call Brienne to her aid, hopefully sparking a fight between her and Arya and using one to eliminate the other. Why he’s doing this, knowing Bran is squirreled away in some room or chilling in the Godswood, is beyond me.
I think overall, this will be one of the more polarizing episodes in Thrones history. Every viewer now is having to make a calculation about how much lax storytelling to forgive, considering the following: It’s not the creators’ fault that Martin hasn’t finished his books; there are just seven episodes left; and the show will naturally accelerate as it nears the finish line. On one end of the spectrum will be those who are perfectly content, after years of painful reversals and twists, to root for the “good guys” to stay good, and to “win” in the end, whatever that means. On the other end will be those who will feel profoundly betrayed if Game of Thrones, in its final hours, rejects the “no one is safe” attitude typified by game-changing moments like the Red Wedding. I’ll still give Season 7 until the finale to show me what kind of series this epic wants to be onscreen—if “Beyond the Wall” is any indicator, I’ll expect heated debate over the soul of Thrones until Season 8 returns (sigh) more than a year later.


Jerry Lewis, one of Hollywood’s most iconic and influential comedians with a decades-long legacy as an actor, writer, singer, director, and humanitarian, died on Sunday morning in Las Vegas at the age of 91. Beloved beginning in the late 1940s as a broad family entertainer with an unparalleled gift for physical comedy, Lewis was many things to many people over his 70-plus years in the industry. He was the zany instigator alongside Dean Martin’s straight man in their legendary comedy duo; he was a slapstick film star who pumped out movies dismissed by some as the lowest common denominator and embraced by others as high art; and he was a famously mercurial and acidic celebrity who devoted much of his star power to raising money for children suffering from muscular dystrophy.
Over his long career, Lewis never stopped working, even as his on-screen appearances dwindled. He sold out shows at the age of 90, and never lost grip of his specific, irascible sense of humor (as evidenced by this marvelously uncomfortable interview he gave The Hollywood Reporter last December). His star was at its apex in the ’50s and ’60s, but he did some of his most fascinating work in his later years, while many of his films, dismissed at the time as fluff, are now admired for the total artistic control Lewis exerted over them.
Jerry Lewis's Immortal Lip-Sync to a Trombone
Born in 1926 and raised in Newark, New Jersey, the son of Russian Jewish parents who both worked as entertainers in the Catskills, Lewis dropped out of high school in the tenth grade and began working as a comedian. In 1946, he formed a partnership with the 29-year-old nightclub singer Dean Martin and the two merged their acts, with Lewis performing elaborate physical-comedy skits alongside the crooning Martin, the former’s disheveled mania playing off the latter’s cool-guy attitude.
Their “sex and slapstick” routine, in which Lewis was the wisecracking id and Martin the smooth-talking ego, quickly got a radio show. They then made several appearances on television before jumping to Hollywood, starring in comedies like That’s My Boy, Sailor Beware, Jumping Jacks, The Caddy, Scared Stiff, and many more—17 in all, all released between 1949 and 1956. Almost as fast as they had risen to fame, Martin and Lewis broke up, ending their partnership in 1956 after years of creative strain, with Lewis reportedly looking to make more adventurous work, and Martin resentful of his increasingly diminished roles, and his partner’s controlling nature as an artist.
Lewis felt betrayed by the split, and though the two appeared together a few times on television, they didn’t fully reconcile until the late 1980s. Lewis occasionally spoke of his regret at the split—in that 2016 interview, referencing the time “when my partner was alive” as the happiest of his career. But he forged on as a solo act, making a string of films in the late ’50s with director Frank Tashlin (a Warner Bros. animator with a similar sensibility to Lewis) before taking on his directorial debut, 1960’s The Bellboy. A practically plotless, nearly dialogue-free ode to the slapstick heroes of Lewis’s youth like Laurel and Hardy, the film was a hit, and the beginning of Lewis’s most successful period as a filmmaker, one still revered (especially in France, where his reputation as a great auteur is unquestioned) as a landmark for movie comedies.
These films included The Ladies Man (1961), where he played a clumsy dweeb working at a ladies’ boarding house, and The Family Jewels (1965), in which he played seven roles. But the era is probably best remembered for The Nutty Professor (1963), a take on the Jekyll-Hyde story in which he plays the shy scientist Julius Kelp and his suave alter-ego Buddy Love. Lewis had taken the bifurcated comic chemistry of his Martin-and-Lewis act and put it into one body; the result is still extraordinary to watch. But as the studio system began to change in the late ’60s and the darker New Hollywood era began with the release of films like Bonnie and Clyde, Lewis struggled to adapt, with his broader material finding less and less of an audience.
His infamous attempt at a serious film about the business of clowning, the 1972 Holocaust drama The Day the Clown Cried (in which he played a washed-up clown who entertains Jewish children in Auschwitz), was such a disaster that it was never released and was tied up in an abyss of litigation for decades afterwards. Lewis would mock the effort himself, once saying, “I was embarrassed. I was ashamed of the work, and I was grateful that I had the power to contain it all, and never let anyone see it. It was bad, bad, bad. ... But I can tell you how it ends.” However, it became part of the legend of his diminished career in the ’70s, as he struggled to adapt to a grimmer, more subversive comedy world.
He returned to the big screen in 1981 with Hardly Working, which was a hit despite poor reviews; his next appearance, in Martin Scorsese’s 1983 satire The King of Comedy was much more acclaimed. As a famed talk-show host kidnapped by a disturbed fan (played by Robert De Niro), Lewis played off his public image in dark and fascinating ways, turning in the best performance of his later career—though the film was initially a box-office bomb before its reputation quickly grew. After that, he mostly made cameo appearances in television and film, as well as making his Broadway debut in Damn Yankees in 1995.
Through all his career highs and lows, Lewis was also a spokesperson for the Muscular Dystrophy Association, hosting an annual Labor Day weekend telethon to raise money for the cause of “Jerry’s Kids.” Over 44 years, he helped raise some $2 billion for the organization before he stopped hosting in 2010, the telethons’ effectiveness having been blunted by the internet age. Though unheralded by such organizations in the prime of his career, Lewis has been honored with the Academy’s Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award, a star on the Walk of Fame, a special tribute by the Cannes Film Festival, and France’s Legion of Honor as well as countless other lifetime achievement awards. He had six sons with his first wife Patti Palmer (whom he divorced in 1980), one of whom, Joseph, died in 2009; he is also survived by his second wife SanDee Pitnick and their daughter Danielle.


The inspiration for “Four Cypresses,” off Grizzly Bear’s spindly and hypnotic new album Painted Ruins, came one night when the singer Daniel Rossen returned to a Los Angeles apartment he’d been renting to find a man sleeping in his driveway. The next morning, he looked out the window and considered the thought of the man looking at the same thing as him: four cypresses in the neighbor’s yard. “The basis of the lyric, that’s where it came from—the idea of displacement, and homelessness, really,” Rossen told the podcast Song Exploder. “Trying to connect with someone else’s experience, trying to find shared experience with someone that’s having a much worse time than I am.”
Without that story, the song would be indecipherable lyrically, but still fascinating as music. It begins with an off-kilter groove of pinging keyboard and drums that, via the guiding help of a bassline, eventually steadies itself. Rossen—quavering, mannered, churchly—watches someone watch: “Instead of moving / You stared into the wall.” Guitars dive in, at first gentle then knotted; the arrangement grows and heaves, and Rossen sounds agitated. Eventually, though, there’s a sensation of free-falling into a passage of utter prettiness. Maybe that’s the moment when the sight-lines of narrator and subject meet. It’s certainly when all four band members, finally, pull in the same direction.
What's Wrong With Arcade Fire's Everything Now?
Grizzly Bear built a following from 2002 to 2012 by blending experimentalism, atmosphere, and audience-pleasing ambition in a way that typified the best of their era’s indie rock. The songs had common ingredients—two highly distinctive singers, textural guitar influenced by folk and jazz and flamenco, carnivalesque keyboard and classical woodwinds—but no common formula. When they wanted it to, their tinkering could achieve surprising catchiness, as with 2006’s “Knife” or 2009’s “Two Weeks.” But usually, they followed an internal logic, making music to get lost in.

The foursome has talked about their unease with how the music world has changed in the five years since their fourth album, Shields. With the rise of all-you-can-stream content overload and with the dwindling of robust online venues for fans to obsess and argue over rock music, how many people are going to have the patience for a new Grizzly Bear album? Painted Ruins at first seems to address this conundrum by grabbing attention with insistent, jittery rhythms that seem to promise exciting anthems. But the songs are actually less accessible than they initially appear. Painted Ruins just gets more jagged and inscrutable beneath its surface—though its craftsmanship is never less than impressive.
One thing that does seem clear is that the band is interested in the murky and instinctual way humans negotiate with one another. Singer Ed Droste has said that he doesn’t want his recent divorce to provide the lens through which the album is viewed, and that’s fair. The listener should apply their own context to subtly devastating songs like “Neighbors,” which seems to describe two people who live near each other but are unable or unwilling to achieve intimacy. Same goes for the kraut-rock thrum of “Mourning Sound,” which ascribes a sense of grief to the noises of the world Droste and Rossen sing about: dogs barking, trucks driving. Anyone who has had their perception reshaped by loss, which is to say most anyone, can relate in their gut.

The real drama of these songs is musical, in the push and pull between band members. Grizzly Bear call themselves a “democracy” and have said that over the years the recording process has become less frictional, more “adult.” Perhaps that explains the remarkable cohesion of Painted Ruins across a variety of dizzying arrangements and song structures. Through it all, the titular “paint” seems confined to shades of just a few colors—blue and grey, perhaps. To be sure, the album lacks the arresting tonal change-ups and sneaky hooks of their older material. But there’s a heap of satisfaction to be gained from giving oneself over to these songs’ carefully conjured moods, alternatively contemplative and grandiose. There’s even more fun to be had from zooming in on the fine details: the bird-squall guitars of the standout closer “Sky Took Hold,” the glum bass thumbing on “Wasted Acres,” the toy-box sounds of “Losing All Sense.”
Whenever it seems the band is getting too tangled up building altars for some indescribable muse, it straightens itself out, delivering the timeless pleasure of tension built and then released. The woozy, prog-touched “Three Rings” justifies its fussiness during a mid-song reverie on par with Radiohead’s most absorbing passages. When the queasy-making carousel of “Aquarian” starts to slow down as Rossen repeats “never reach the end,” you may well hope the ride goes on forever. Such moments of conflict giving way to peace comfortingly suggest, again and again, a resolution of the eternal struggle Droste spoke of: to connect.


Oprah Winfrey Is On a Roll (Again)
Jonathan Van Meter | Vogue
“Perhaps the main reason Oprah has returned to film acting is not just the recent uptick in the availability of actual roles for black women over 60, but also that she is being asked to return. … She has had a profound influence on our culture, not to mention our politics, given that many feel Barack Obama might not have made it across the finish line without her tireless support for him during his first presidential campaign, in 2007.”
Against Instagram
Josephine Livingstone | New Republic
“In exchange for knowing everything about us and monetizing our friendships, Facebook builds a shadowy and superpowerful corporate empire that may well propel its founder into the White House one day. So, Ingrid Goes West portrays Taylor Sloane as a narcissistic and shallow young woman whose life is filled with low-grade human connections. But it also points out that ‘Instagram Influencer’ is not a novel form. It’s that classic thing, the Sell Out.”
What the Departure of the Times’s Michiko Kakutani’s Means for Books Coverage
Boris Kachka | New York
“It’s usually overreaching to call any critic’s departure the end of an era, and Kakutani’s writing career isn’t over at all. … But an era really has ended. As chief book critic, Kakutani was inimitable and irreplaceable. (In fact the ‘chief critic’ position won’t be replaced.) She was the ‘voice of God,’ as one writer put it to me. … And as she grew into the job, she became more legend than human, less knowable the more we got to know her.”
Donald Glover and YA Twitter: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
Miyazaki, Lynch, Soderbergh—Why Are So Many Directors Un-Retiring?
Phil Hoad | The Guardian
“Miyazaki’s decision is symptomatic of times in which boundaries of old age have become fuzzy, and many people are motivated to continue working. Blithely announcing and then canceling retirement is currently all the rage in the wider film world—even among younger directors. … But it’s hard not to suspect that the old retirement hokey-cokey—in, out, in, out—is at least partly driven by PR reasoning.”
Her #OscarsSoWhite Campaign Changed How Hollywood Deals With Race. Now She’s Taking On HBO.
Sonia Rao | The Washington Post
“Since she cheekily tweeted ‘#OscarsSoWhite they asked to touch my hair’ in response to an all-white slate of Academy Award acting nominees in 2015, [April] Reign has been at the epicenter of the online conversation about representation in Hollywood. Her viral hashtag transformed the way we talk about entertainment, and she’s now using another to try to take down the Game of Thrones creators’ next TV show—all from her home office in Ellicott City, Maryland.”
In a Body-Positive Moment, Why Does Hollywood Remain Out of Step?
Brooks Barnes | The New York Times
“[Danielle] Macdonald must avoid a cycle that plays out over and over in moviedom. … A plus-size actress, almost always an unknown, lands the central role in a film and delivers a knockout performance. She is held up by producers and the entertainment news media as refreshing, long overdue evidence that Hollywood’s insistence on microscopic waistlines is ending. And then she is slowly but surely pushed into bit parts, many of which are defined by weight.”
The Books We Don’t Understand
Tim Parks | The New York Review of Books
“Once we have been hooked, then so long as the narrative moves along and intrigues us we won’t have too much trouble dealing with things that don’t make sense to us. On the contrary, any early perplexities will come across as exotic, part of the fascination. But eventually, with some novels at least, we will balk. After a hundred or two hundred pages, we will start to feel that this just doesn’t add up.”
Can Rotten Tomatoes Crush a Movie at the Box Office?
Sean Fennessey | The Ringer
“Rotten Tomatoes … finds itself trapped in a valley between its purpose and its power. To serve the fans with the insights of critics by way of the corporate stewardship of the very things being criticized feels like a tautological exercise. Instead, it’s a business plan—a growing business plan. As the film industry shrinks and reshapes itself, Rotten Tomatoes builds more loyalty and a bigger audience, and strikes more fear, founded or not.”
True Crime Gets Pretty
Laura Miller | Slate
“The authors of these new true crime/memoir hybrids … put themselves at the center of the story. … Each has a personal connection to the crime, or attempts to persuade her readers that it speaks to her inner life in some irresistible way. But they are writers and memoirists first. … They spend less time describing how they tracked down facts or pored over forensic reports than they do scrutinizing their own feelings, turning them over and over like heirlooms.”


Don’t Miss
An Indelible Image From Trump’s ‘On Both Sides’ Press Conference—Megan Garber dives into what it meant when the chief executive chose his own words over the ones that had been prepared for him.
The Business of Creativity
The Invisible Artists Behind Your Favorite Comics—Asher Elbein explores the world of colorists and letterers, who bring a silent medium to life.
Confessions of a Costume Curator—Kimberly Chrisman-Campbell explains that as a fashion historian, it’s her job to learn from other people’s clothes, which can be a challenging, messy, and often spooky task.
Film
The Trip to Spain Is Pure Comedy About Comfort Food—David Sims watches another hilarious entry in the faux-documentary series starring the comedians Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon.
Logan Lucky Is a Welcome Return to Movies for Steven Soderbergh—David Sims watches the charming caper film set at a NASCAR race, starring Channing Tatum, Adam Driver, Daniel Craig, and Riley Keough.
TV
Atypical Is So Close to Great—Sophie Gilbert thinks the Netflix series about a high-school senior with autism is warmhearted, funny, and totally inconsistent.
Game of Thrones: No Choice At All—David Sims, Lenika Cruz, and Megan Garber discuss ‘Eastwatch,’ the fifth episode of the seventh season.
Joking After Charlottesville—Megan Garber looks at Anthony Scaramucci’s appearance on The Late Show With Stephen Colbert, in which he was ready to laugh but the host and audience were not.
‘He Is Not a President’—Sophie Gilbert analyzes Seth Meyers and Jimmy Fallon’s damning critiques of Donald Trump in the aftermath of Charlottesville.
Would You Believe Jon Snow?—Megan Garber notices that Game of Thrones is exploring the life of another kind of monster this season: the alternative fact.
The Defenders: Marvel’s TV Universe Clicks Into Place—Sophie Gilbert enjoys the Netflix limited series that brings the gang together, to riotous results.
‘Let Us Eat Cake’: The Tina Fey Effect in 2017—Megan Garber asks: After Charlottesville, who should be speaking and who should be listening?
Music
The Dark Matter of America’s Foremost Musical Satirist—Conor Friedersdorf believes Randy Newman has done as much as any songwriter to anticipate the tragicomic place where the country finds itself.
Justin Bieber Has Another Question for the Pop World—Spencer Kornhaber says the singer’s shimmery new single “Friends” comes off as a gift to long-suffering fans, and as an attempt to further his hot streak.
Getting Hate Speech Off Music-Streaming Services—Spencer Kornhaber notes that Spotify has pulled a number of bands from its platform in yet another example of tech companies grappling with white supremacy.
Books
Beast Celebrates a Man’s Abrupt Return to Nature—Scott Beauchamp reviews Paul Kingsnorth’s novel, which builds on the ecological, humanist terrain of the writer’s previous work.
Art
The Follow-Up to Rain Room Is Brilliant and Unsettling—Sophie Gilbert visits Random International and Wayne McGregor’s + / - Human, an installation by way of Black Mirror.
Theater
A Play That Tests Ethical Questions in Real-Time—Sophie Gilbert attends The Majority, which quizzes its audience on hot-button issues to demonstrate how easily the shape of a query can alter its answer.


In a 2012 article published in the Public Opinion Quarterly, a group of researchers shared the results of a study they had done in the aftermath of the 2008 U.S. presidential election. The researchers, based on panels with young voters, found that the impression of Sarah Palin that Tina Fey had made famous on Saturday Night Live—“I can see Russia from my house!”—had changed the public’s feeling about the actual vice-presidential candidate. Fey’s jokes, the researchers suggested, had proven comedy’s power, especially in times of question and perhaps also in times of crisis, to shape people’s sense of the world. The jokes had woven themselves into the workings of American democracy. The researchers called it the Fey Effect.
On Thursday evening, the woman the effect was named for returned to Saturday Night Live, making a surprise appearance on the show’s Weekend Update: Summer Edition. Wearing a University of Virginia sweatshirt—she had graduated from the school in 1992—Tina Fey talked about the hatred on display in the place she loved, and the violence that had resulted from it. She talked about the American president’s reticence: his baffling but also not entirely baffling reluctance to use his bully pulpit to unequivocally criticize the bigots who had marched on Charlottesville. She did the thing that has been so crucial, and so frustratingly lacking in reflexivity, among those in positions of power: She named the hate groups, and she full-throatedly condemned them.
And then: Tina Fey ate cake. Sheet cake. Cake that worked as a visual metaphor for the sense of helplessness so many Americans are feeling right now, as hate groups feel validated and empowered, and as so many in the U.S. government give those groups ample reason for the feeling. Fey’s cake, destroyed by the end of the segment, was frosted with an American flag.

The bit is, in many ways, classic Fey: It’s self-deprecating, and uses food in particular as a tool of deprecation; it’s at once slapstick and cerebral; it folds a sweeping message about the emotional state of the country into a joke about baked goods; it refers to white supremacists as “chinless turds.” But the bit is classic Fey in another way, too: Its humor is also punctuated with moments of cringe-worthiness—about race, in particular.
‘He Is Not a President’
At one point Fey makes a joke about a drag queen being “a 6-foot-4 black man.” She yuks to Michael Che about her placement on the set: She’s sitting next to Colin Jost rather than Che, she explains, because the angle highlights “the better half of my face” (“This week, I think it’s important to be clear about that”). She ends the whole bit with an apparently off-handed joke about Thomas Jefferson and ... Sally Hemings, “that hot light-skinned girl over by the butter churn.” (This was an echo of a line in her memoir Bossypants: “To get some play in Charlottesville,” Fey wrote of her time at UVA, “you had to be either a Martha Jefferson or a Sally Hemings.”) All that came in the context of a segment that is in one way channeling a sense of national despair but that is in another toying with complacency as a response to evil’s banality: Let us eat cake.
It’s just a joke, you might say. It’s just a joke, Fey herself might say—as, indeed, she has said so many times before: after episodes of 30 Rock and Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt met with criticism for their glibness about race, after Fey and her team responded to the criticism by doubling down on the glibness. It’s just a joke, however, doesn’t account for the Fey Effect: for comedy’s power to shape the way people see the world. “Tina Fey starts a grassroots movement with ‘sheetcaking,’” the Twitter Moment about Fey’s appearance summed it up; that, itself, was not serious. There is no “movement” here. The joke is about seeing a problem in the world and turning inward in response. It’s about a kind of political introversion—an introversion that is, as astute critics have pointed out, its own kind of privilege.
The aftermath of Charlottesville has surfaced many truths and sparked many questions about this country and this moment; one of them is the matter of speaking itself. Who should be heard right now, and who should be quieting down? Who has wisdom to share? Who, on the other side, has something to learn?
Fey’s bit, perhaps unintentionally, asked those questions, too. Her appearance, Jost noted when he introduced her, as the studio audience went wild, was “personal”—Fey was speaking up about Charlottesville, Weekend Update suggested, because of her connection to UVA. There are many other people, of course, for whom Charlottesville is “personal” in extremely meaningful ways. But that wasn’t the kind of “personal” Saturday Night Live was exploring this week. It had its own definitions. It gave Fey’s fellow SNL alums, Jimmy Fallon and Seth Meyers, the chance to appear elsewhere in Weekend Update as George Washington and Thomas Jefferson—and to make jokes about the fact that the founders, while doing their founding, had enslaved other humans. Just jokes.
Saturday Night Live is a place, in general, of sanitized centrism: edgy, but not too edgy; summative rather than argumentative. In one way that gives it power as a broad shaper of the national mood: the Fey Effect, in action. In another way, though, its posture limits the show’s capabilities in moments of real moral crisis. It makes it clash against the comedy that more boldly embraces moral arguments and activist impulses. It makes SNL itself a little bit introverted.  
Last year, in an episode for his podcast Revisionist History, Malcolm Gladwell criticized Fey’s portrayal of Palin. The gags’ satire was “toothless,” he argued—funny, sure, but also easy and a little cheap. Parody, nothing more. Gladwell’s argument wasn’t terribly convincing—no one watches Saturday Night Live expecting Jonathan Swift—but it was also, perhaps, prescient: The years between 2008 and 2017 have been consequential ones, ones that have changed the character of the country and of the world. Comedy is adjusting to that, as are we all. But it is adjusting slowly. On Thursday, as history’s first rough drafts were still being written about Charlottesville—while it remained an open question whether the hoodless hatred on display there was a death rattle or the new normal—Saturday Night Live welcomed back its former star and, with great fanfare, let her eat cake.


Is The Defenders a good show? Not if you take “good” to mean that it’s well-written, or deftly plotted, or boasts particularly transcendent performances. The script includes lines that belong nowhere outside of a Ferrero Rocher commercial, like, “Your insight on music history—it never ceases to amaze me,” or, “Please tell your wife she makes it even better than they did in Constantinople.” Though Netflix has wisely trimmed the new spinoff of its four Marvel superheroes down to eight episodes, the first two still feature a laborious amount of wheel-spinning setup. And even if the actors are all doing their best, they can’t shake the bleak pomposity that infuses all of Marvel’s Netflix shows—a characteristic commitment to clenched jaws and deathly earnestness.
But none of this matters when the four characters finally come together, in a fight sequence of such exuberance and energy that the whole universe seems to click into place. Matt Murdock/Daredevil (Charlie Cox), Jessica Jones (Krysten Ritter), Luke Cage (Mike Colter), and Danny Rand/Iron Fist (Finn Jones) have each appeared in their own series up to this point, to varying effect and critical reception. But together, they’re a riot. Both their heroic vulnerabilities and the franchise’s weaknesses are superseded by the collective and the joy of watching a super-sensed, ultra-strong, bulletproof, luminous fist-wielding foursome smash soulless corporate henchmen into smithereens.
Marvel's Iron Fist Is Desperately Seeking a Hero
There is, of course, some exposition to get through before this point, just in case there are curious viewers tuning in who haven’t kept up to date with all four heroes individually (pretty much the only reason to soldier through the 13 episodes of Iron Fist). The first episode offers a quick catchup: Matt’s put away his costume and is focusing on pro bono work, Jessica’s still drinking excessively, Luke’s out of prison thanks to a timely intervention by Foggy (Elden Henson), and Danny and Colleen (Jessica Henwick) have chased the Hand to Phnom Penh, where they seem to hit a dead end. But all are back in New York by the time a strange event occurs that pulls them into the orbit of Alexandra (Sigourney Weaver), a wealthy and enigmatic woman with a fascinating past but only a single emotional register.
Weaver, despite her immense talent and ferocious poise, makes for the weakest villain the Netflix Marvel universe has seen so far, burdened with all of the tedious epicurean hallmarks of an arch-nemesis (she loves classical music and Botticelli masterpieces) but none of the personality, at least in the four episodes distributed to critics. Unlike Vincent D’Onofrio’s Wilson Fisk (Daredevil) or Mahershala Ali’s Cottonmouth (Luke Cage), she exudes bland elegance rather than menace. To that end, The Defenders relies on another familiar face for most of its epic set pieces, but it’s still hard not to long for a more genuinely ominous and unstable villain like David Tennant’s Kilgrave from Jessica Jones, who beyond threatening the physical safety of the four heroes could actually get inside their heads.
To the credit of The Defenders, though, it’s obviously learned from the pitfalls and rookie errors of the previous four series. Episodes are shorter, fight scenes are tighter, and the sheer volume of characters to deal with means there’s much less throat-clearing going on. Most of the criticism leveled at Finn Jones’s oft-petulant boy billionaire is incorporated into the show via Luke, who treats Danny to dressing downs and occasional physical face-offs that for viewers are likely cathartic. It’s oddly a lot easier to accept Danny Rand as a mystical-wisdom spouting, Converse-wearing brat when there’s someone onscreen making fun of him for it.
The flip side of the pared-down structure is that it allows for only a brief amount of time with each character, particularly Jessica, whose show debuted almost two years ago, and who hasn’t been heard from since. But that’s presumably the point of The Defenders—to remind viewers that these heroes are here to stay. The thrill of Marvel’s TV shows has always been the recurring characters who pop up in unexpected places, like the Madame Gaos and the Jeri Hogarths who add cohesion to their shared universe. (Jon Bernthal’s Frank Castle/Punisher reportedly shows up in later episodes of The Defenders, and there are rumors Kilgrave might also make an appearance.) It’s now at least clear why Claire Temple (Rosario Dawson) has been such a sparse but reliable presence all this time: Someone had to be the mutual friend who brings the gang together.


There’s something transgressive about touching other people’s clothes—especially dead people’s clothes. Some would even call it spooky. As a costume curator and fashion historian, I have colleagues who swear that they have felt, and even seen, ghostly presences in their museums’ costume-storage areas. It’s easy to get the chills in those cramped rooms, which are climate-controlled to the ideal temperature and humidity for textiles, not for humans. I myself have not encountered any phantom fashionistas, but once I opened a box and a fox stole—complete with eyes, paws, tail, and teeth—seemed to leap out, making me scream so loudly that two security guards came running. Occasionally I’ll find a stray hair, a frayed hem, or a telltale stain on an otherwise pristine garment carefully packed away for posterity in acid-free tissue paper and remember, with a jolt, that there was once a living, breathing, sweating human body inside it—a body that has been still for up to hundreds of years.
Obviously, this is not the impression we curators want to give museum visitors. Blockbuster fashion exhibitions are big business, from the $25 tickets to boutique-like gift shops, and the only scary thing about them should be the hours-long line to get in. Once inside the galleries, visitors see clothes reanimated on mannequins, with atmospheric lighting and music, high-tech interactive displays, and painstakingly researched explanatory labels and catalogues. The Costume Institute’s 2016 show Manus x Machina: Fashion in an Age of Technology was the seventh most attended exhibition in the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s 147-year history, beating the record-breaking Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty show from 2011. The Fashion World of Jean Paul Gaultier, organized by the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, drew even more people over the course of its five-year, 12-city tour, which ended last year. Even museums not known for collecting costume have bought into the trend; the Museum of Modern Art’s upcoming Items: Is Fashion Modern? will be the institution’s first fashion exhibition in 73 years when it opens in October.
The buzziest shows emphasize contemporary fashion. But historic dress—the kind I mostly deal with—is a powerful draw, too, especially in the age of Game of Thrones, Outlander, and Poldark. Few museum visitors have ever handled a marble bust or a gilded snuffbox, but everyone wears clothes. Whether it’s a 17th-century silk doublet or an Imperial Russian court gown, anyone can look at a garment and evaluate it from a place of experience. Maybe that’s why people are mystified when I tell them what I do for a living. They can relate to the subject instantly—and, at the same time, can’t understand why my job requires years of training and a graduate degree (or two). Today, when seemingly everything, from cocktail menu to playlist, is described as being curated, “But what do you actually do?” is a question I get all the time—and a full answer involves mannequin mutilation and crotch-stuffing, writing and lecturing, bidding on eBay, researching history and art history, and honing a sense of style that both channels and transcends the sensibilities of any given era.
* * *
I am not a fashion designer. The worst sin I can commit at my job is trying on the clothes in my care, or allowing someone else to, because museum pieces are for studying, preserving, and displaying, not for wearing. But it’s the wearing that gives them meaning. And it’s often the flaws in a garment—the discolorations, the smells, the split seams, the runaway sequins—that speak the loudest, poignant reminders of the lives lived in them.
An antique textile dealer once told me about a woman who called her, wanting to sell a black dress worn by her great-great-grandmother, who had died in the 1850s. Not another Victorian black dress, the dealer thought, rolling her eyes. The caller continued: “My great-great-grandmother was a slave.” The dealer nearly dropped the phone in shock, then invited the caller to name her price; documented slave clothes are as rare as Victorian black dresses are commonplace. The lesson was that sometimes, it’s the woman—or man—who makes the clothes, not the other way around. In other words, every wedding dress is special, but only Kate Middleton’s wedding dress could bring in $15 million in ticket sales during just two months on display at Buckingham Palace.
To most people, a preoccupation with clothing is superficial, if not borderline immoral; even the Bible asks: “Why do you worry about clothes?” But fashion historians are more inclined to agree with Oscar Wilde’s line from The Picture of Dorian Gray: “It is only shallow people who do not judge by appearances.” Though some may see our jobs as frivolous, curators understand that clothes reveal ineffable truths about not just individual lives, but also collective values and experiences. Garments act as totems and taboos, and retain their power to impress or intimidate long after they were first worn. Things like Ku Klux Klan robes and Nazi uniforms are collected but rarely displayed by museums, precisely because they so powerfully evoke events and emotions most would prefer to forget. At the same time, old clothes acquire new and problematic meanings over time. Many museums are now reluctant to display fur garments because they may offend animal lovers, even though fur has been an integral element of dress for thousands of years.
Thanks to modern technology and the efforts of specialist textile scientists, curators can now appreciate historical garments in ways their original beholders and wearers could not. Polarizing microscopes and high-resolution digital images reveal textures, weaves, and threads invisible to the naked eye. Cutting-edge conservation treatments reinflate sleeves crushed by centuries of careless storage or restore shattered silk linings. X-rays reveal the complex interior boning of a Balenciaga evening gown, and military-grade chemical inhibitors remove aluminum corrosion on Neil Armstrong’s space suit.
But no amount of scientific analysis can capture the feel, sound, and smell of historic clothing—and that’s where costume curators and conservators (who are responsible for the technical examination and treatment of textiles) have a privileged perspective. We get to touch it. We enjoy intimate proximity with other people’s clothes, laid out on lab tables under lights and magnifying glasses like surgical patients, not in dimly illuminated public galleries where the objects are kept out of reach behind glass or velvet ropes. We find the hidden pockets; the discreet padding; the lingering whiff of perfume or tobacco. By the time they go on public display, we know them as well as the clothes on our own backs.
* * *
Costume exhibitions offer a remembered way of dressing that is at once more attractive and more idiosyncratic than today’s. It seems to me that the popularity of these shows has skyrocketed alongside society’s growing tendency to dress down, a phenomenon that, while hardly new, has been greatly accelerated by the rise of the laid-back tech industry and social media. The growth of athleisure has hardly abated the craving for old-fashioned elegance: Dapper Day, first held at Disneyland in 2011, has grown into an international movement, workplaces have started embracing Formal Friday dress codes, and even corsets are back.
While the demand for such museum shows is clear, less obvious is the fact that they entail years of preparation, even if they’re typically on view for just a few months—the maximum amount of time the fragile fibers can be exposed to light without fading or deteriorating. Compared to other types of artwork, garments and textiles are relatively inexpensive to collect, but they are notoriously costly to store, maintain, and exhibit. New textile acquisitions must be quarantined in giant freezers for two weeks before being unpacked, to kill any insects that might have stowed away in their folds. One day, I was at work when a brand-new pair of Prada’s Art Nouveau-inspired Fairy shoes arrived in the mail: a donation, still in the original box. It was promptly slapped with a museum-inventory number and hustled into storage, never to be worn. There wasn’t a dry eye in the office.
We curators are only human, after all. Of course we want to try on the clothes; it’s what got us interested in working with costume collections in the first place. That said, you won’t find many curators on best-dressed lists. Given the opportunity, we’d probably all be wearing head-to-toe Issey Miyake and Martin Margiela. But most museums are nonprofits; in general, they don’t pay us well enough to indulge in the edgy, cerebral labels we love best. (One curator I know has worn the same artfully deconstructed Ann Demeulemeester dress for every speaking engagement for the past eight years.) Often, though, you can identify a costume curator by the accessories: a stunning shibori scarf picked up on a courier trip to Kyoto, or a fabulous piece of costume jewelry from an insider-y vintage store, or a shoe collection to rival any museum’s.
Curators are also drawn to natural fibers, which can be a curse in this day and age, when pure silks, wools, linens, and cottons are the exception, not the rule, as they were until the mid-20th century. Today, many of the fabrics and handcraft techniques common to historic garments and textiles exist only in haute couture. Most of our clothes and their materials are produced quickly and cheaply using machines; computers have simplified the tailoring and fitting process. This has made fashionable dress available to more people but at the expense of the quality and individuality evident in even the everyday clothing of previous generations.
The one high-tech textile curators love is Tyvek, the soft, white, spun-polyethylene material Netflix used to ship DVDs in. We go through bolts and bolts of it, using it to line worktables, shroud mannequins, and carpet gallery floors during installation. Tyvek protects, but—more importantly—it also conceals, for what happens behind the scenes of a costume exhibition is not pretty. Unlike hanging a painting on a wall, mounting a three-dimensional object on an entirely different three-dimensional object is an all-day endeavor.
Curators alter the mannequin to fit the garment, never the other way around. We routinely disfigure mannequins with polyester batting, felt, and tulle to make them conform to clothes that were custom-tailored for unique, imperfect bodies and often distorted by long-lost foundation garments. Alternatively, we dismember them; some of the unspeakable acts I’ve performed on mannequins include shaving down breasts, amputating toes, and truncating too-long limbs.
More than historians, we are also stylists. It takes a good eye and a steady hand to dress a mannequin, but it requires a bold leap of the imagination and intellect to outfit that mannequin with a hat, jewelry, gloves, shoes, and other accessories appropriate to the taste of the period; to anchor an orphaned garment in a place, a social class, and a time of year (and time of day); and, ultimately, to do so in a way that makes it accessible and attractive to multigenerational, multicultural audiences.
And that’s after you’ve agonized over the specs of the mannequin. Does it need hands? A head? Does the head need a face? Or hair? What is the hair going to be made of? (Paper, tulle, polyester fiberfill, and buckram are popular options; the Saint Louis Art Museum’s current menswear show uses suit interfacing, a clever tailoring twist.) When—for purely aesthetic reasons—the J. Paul Getty Museum included headless mannequins in its 2011 show Paris: Life & Luxury, one critic interpreted them as foreshadowing the guillotine. By leaving the mannequins’ bodies incomplete and allowing visitors to fill in the gaps themselves, curators sometimes risk inviting incorrect assumptions.
The color of mannequins has become a pressing concern in my line of work, too, as exhibition themes and displays ramp up their efforts to depict diversity. Mannequins with realistic skin tones tend to look old-fashioned or uncanny-valley-adjacent, but “neutral” colors like white or pale gray often read as Caucasian—the latter an especially glaring problem in a show like FIT’s Black Fashion Designers or the Chicago History Museum’s Inspiring Beauty: 50 Years of Ebony Fashion Fair.  In recent years, custom-made “floating” forms—hollow torsos concealed by the clothes and hung by invisible wires—have surged in popularity, because they sidestep so many of the issues that mannequins pose. Imagine inflating a garment like a balloon until it takes on the size and shape of its original wearer. It’s as if the former owner has just stepped out for a moment; literally disembodied, the garments themselves become ghosts.
Dressing mannequins, with all the practical considerations and cultural nuances that entails, has changed the way I dress myself. I have a vast collection of half-slips and other archaic undergarments, and you can usually find a few safety pins somewhere on my person, keeping all those layers in place. My tiny closet is crowded with acid-free boxes, shoe trees, and homemade padded hangers and linen garment bags. But studying other people’s clothes has shaped me in other, more profound ways, as well. I no longer view clothing as ornament or protection, but as communication. To my mind, dress codes and sumptuary laws are free-speech issues; dress speaks louder—and with more honesty—than words. And very little in fashion strikes me as new or surprising. Hemlines and hairstyles may change, but the forces driving them—human frailty, vanity, and ingenuity—are eternal.


Justin Bieber just wants to ask you a question, again. Owing either to marketing efforts or issues that can only be determined in a therapy session, the signature hits of the Canadian child star’s adult career have boasted choruses as interrogatives. When he transitioned to semi-adventurous dance-pop: “Where are you now that I need you?” Amid metronome and burbling keys: “What do you mean?” Over skeletal dancehall: “Is it too late to say sorry?” Now, he’s got a sunny new single and a hopeful new question: “Can we still be friends?”
In all cases, he and his team have executed a songwriting/brand-management trick. The lyrics literally address a lover—but allegorically it’s clear he’s talking to his famously devoted, famously long-suffering fans. Amid bucket-peeing scandals, and concert-stage surliness, and rants about the burden of giving autographs, he has repeatedly sought amends and checked on his followers’ loyalty. Asking, asking, asking: We cool? The plaintive stance is an easy match for Bieber’s musical and meta-musical identities—hangdog yet angelic, an eternal choirboy struggling with life in the spotlight.
‘Despacito’ and the Revenge of Reggaeton
The new single, “Friends,” is sleek electro—the zillionth child of the Eurythmics’s “Sweet Dreams (Are Made of This)” to approach the public in the past three decades. It’s a collaboration with Blood Pop, one of the trendy producers of the moment and the leading musical architect of this phase of Bieber’s career. His signature is to bedazzle otherwise pro-forma pop with fidgety rhythmic details and snippets of manipulated vocals that evoke the image of an all-Pokemon backing choir.
As usual with Blood Pop’s work, though, all the busy-ness seems secondary, a cosmetic chassis for the real engine of the song—in this case, an insistent beat, a tight verse-prechorus-chorus structure, an on-trend wordless hook, and Bieber’s melody. The singer here portrays himself as a nice guy earnestly wondering how an ex and her mom are doing. He’s got no “ulterior motive” other than, we learn in the second verse, wanting to know if she’s replaced him. (Yes, this is possibly all a way of explaining his continued public attention to his ex, Selena Gomez.)

The fan-management angle that will be applied to the question “Can we still be friends?” is obvious. Bieber abruptly called quits on his world tour in July, citing only “unforeseen circumstances.” Rumors circulated he’d done so out of some sort of Christian-faith renewal (was he going to start a new church?), but it also seemed plausible that he’d just gotten sick of the touring behind his 2015 album Purpose. From the start, concert reviews made clear, he wasn’t overly enthused to be at the center of arenas each night. But now he’s back with one of the most straightforwardly pleasurable singles of his career. Fans peeved at his behavior of late may, after everything, remain his friends.
The single also arrives during a remarkable hot streak for Bieber as a hitmaker. Through some savvy (and mercenary) collaborations, he has dominated the season’s airwaves, most notably by hopping on Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee’s Latin-world smash “Despacito” and turning it into the U.S.’s song of the summer as well as the most-streamed song of all time. This week, the tune hit 14 weeks in the No. 1 spot—tying “Macarena” for the longest-running U.S. chart-topper sung mostly in a non-English language. The song preceding it in lead position was also Bieber-centric, the DJ Khaled crew-rap “I’m the One.” Can “Friends”  give Bieber three consecutive No. 1s and total ownership of summer 2017 radio? It’s a long shot, but that question is, no doubt, the most interesting one the song is asking.


In a week of renewed national attention to organized white supremacy, the music-streaming platform Spotify has removed a number of bands alleged to be associated with neo-Nazism. On Monday, Paul Resnikoff at Digital Music News pointed out that 29 bands identified as racist by the Southern Poverty Law Center were available for listening on Spotify (as well as another eight apparently hateful artists that Resnikoff found). By Thursday, Spotify had removed many of the acts, saying that “illegal content or material that favors hatred or incites violence against race, religion, sexuality or the like is not tolerated by us.”
What Trump Gets Wrong About Antifa
The fact that the bands were available to stream in the first place speaks to the challenges of stemming hate speech on new, supposedly democratizing technology platforms. The SPLC’s list of white-power bands that Resnikoff cited was drawn up in 2014 to bring attention to their presence on iTunes, Apple’s service that sells downloads of songs and albums. Keegan Hankes wrote that “the racist music industry, a once lucrative source of funding for the white-power movement,” had faced challenges in distribution and funding in recent years—but was finding new life thanks to digital downloads. Streaming, which is supplanting downloading in popularity, could create a similar dynamic.
Some of the most famous white-power acts, like the band Skrewdriver, appear to have already been absent from platforms like Spotify and Apple Music (YouTube, still navigating how to handle extremist content, is another story). But the bands at issue this week are smaller, obscure ones that might slip under the radar for platforms accessible to hundreds of thousands of bands uploading music through independent distributors. “We are glad to have been alerted to this content—and have already removed many of the bands identified today, whilst urgently reviewing the remainder,” Spotify’s representative said to Billboard. Competitors are following suit. A source close to the situation told me Thursday morning that Tidal is currently in the process of deleting many of these same bands.
The push to stop tech platforms from being used to spread white supremacy isn’t limited to the music world. Buzzfeed reports that Apple Pay and Paypal have recently cut off business with a number of sites selling white-nationalist and Nazi merchandise. The hate publication Daily Stormer has now found itself without a web host after Google and GoDaddy cut ties. It briefly relocated to a Russian server but went down again after Cloudflare, a service that protects from denial-of-service attacks, dropped it as a client.
Music can be a particularly tricky, and important, font of hate for the tech world to  grapple with. The white-power rock scene has a long history, as well as real associations with violence. The man who massacred six people at a Sikh temple in Wisconsin in 2012, for example, played in racist hardcore bands. For now,  at least, the bans would seem to have a pretty clear logic—making it harder for bands listed as hate groups by a hate-group watchdog organization to court enormous potential audiences worldwide.
Yet as is always the case with artistic expression, it’s easy to imagine bans like this week’s triggering future battles over speech rights. What happens in the case of an established band like Pantera, whose singer Phil Anselmo made a white-power salute onstage last year and then apologized for it? And how long before white nationalists take the “both sides” rhetorical approach used by the president to, say, advocate for the banning of aggressive or racially fraught rap lyrics? Of course, the argument being made by critics of Donald Trump’s handling of Charlottesville holds here as well: The history of anti-black (and anti-brown, and anti-Semitic) oppression is so pernicious, and the power dynamics in this country so unequal, that the danger posed by organized white-power movements has no parallel.


This post references plot points through Season 7, Episode 5 of Game of Thrones.
“Perhaps we ought to listen to what he has to say.”
Sam Tarly is trying his best to convince the maesters of the Citadel that Jon Snow has not completely lost his mind. Sam is not having an easy time of it. Which is not entirely surprising: The truth Jon is telling, after all, involves murderous zombies rising from the north’s icy wastelands to attack the warm humans of the south and win them over for the army of the dead. Oh, and the zombie-horde includes some giants. Oh, and the whole undead army is operating under the leadership of an ice-king with superhuman strength who seems to be both exceptionally militarily strategic and also in possession of a lifetime supply of EyeCandys color contacts in Fancy Blue.
Game of Thrones: No Choice at All
Jon—while the audience of Game of Thrones knows this for sure, the denizens of Westeros do not—has not lost his mind. He has seen the army of the dead, right in the midst of their army-ing. He knows the White Walkers and their Night King are real, not as a matter of faith, but as a matter of observation. He’s been an eyewitness to the hungry hordes of former humans who have been converted, through some unknown magic, into weapons.
But Jon is fairly unique in that vision: To most everyone else in Westeros, the White Walkers are fanciful myths. They’re the stuff of legend and lore, which is also to say of lies. As a Citadel maester reminds Sam Tarly, quite reasonably, “prophesies of doom are never in short supply, especially when winter comes.”
* * *
Game of Thrones resonates in part because of its aggressive escapism: the dragons, the magic, the going-out tops that work as business casual. Here is a show that, in a time of political turmoil, offers viewers the chance, for an hour just before the new week begins, to get away from the fires and the furies of reality. But Game of Thrones resonates, as well, because it channels the anxieties of this chaotic moment: about power and who deserves it, about justice and how it might be found. In that sense Jon Snow’s ice-zombies are invested both with magic and with realism: They ask questions not just about life and death, but about truth itself. In a world of information that is both limited and easily manipulated, should people in the Seven Kingdoms believe Jon and his tales of imminent apocalypse? What if they do, and are fooled? What if they don’t, and are doomed?
Game of Thrones may be a show about war, and aristocracy, and loyalty, and tyranny, and, very occasionally, love; it is also keenly interested, however, in the dynamics of belief. It cares about the ways information can save lives and take them—the ways truths and non-truths can be weaponized for good and for ill. Ned Stark dies because, as a person of honor, he doesn’t understand how easily Joffrey will lie to him. The Lannisters retain their power not merely because of their fancifully outfitted bannermen, but because of their spies. Varys and Littlefinger, two expert intelligence-gatherers and information-manipulators, have survived thus far into the show’s generally Darwinian proceedings in large part because they have replaced martial ability with intellectual acumen: When you play the Game of Thrones, apparently, either you win, or you spy.
But Jon Snow and his ice-zombies represent a very particular twist on all that. And the show’s current season, along with them, represents a very particular twist. Having come to the south to warn its denizens that Winter Is Coming, the king of the north now finds himself in a position that is an extremely familiar one in the world Game of Thrones is operating in: Jon has to convince people that what he is saying is true. He must win over those who are not at all inclined to give him—or his observations—the benefit of the doubt. He must, in essence, prove that he is not fake news.
So Season 7 of Game of Thrones finds Jon, clad in his Winterfell leathers and Valyrian steel, ready for battle—and yet the war he is fighting, it soon becomes clear, will first be waged in human minds. Soon after Jon arrives at Dragonstone, once he has convinced Daenerys to allow him to mine the land’s caves for dragonglass, Jon shows her to drawings he tells her he has happened upon in his mining. They’re cave drawings—drawings that progress from primitive swirls and stars to a detailed image of humans and, then, finally, the Night King, rendered in minute precision, right down to those Fancy Blue eyes.
“They were here together, the children and the first men,” Jon tells Dany.
“Doing what?” she asks. “Fighting each other?”
Jon Snow could not have asked for a better opening. “They fought together against their common enemy,” he corrects her. “Despite their differences, despite their suspicions. Together.” He pauses, letting his words sink in with the queen. “We need to do the same if we’re going to survive. Because the enemy is real. It’s always been real.”
My first thought when watching the scene—and I was not alone in this—was that Jon had added the drawings of the Night army himself. The complexity of the art, after all, progressed from Cave of Forgotten Dreams to photorealism almost comically quickly. And also: Jon had good reason to get out his chalk set. The images were helping him, after all, to make a point: that winter really is coming. That the enemy is real, and always has been.
There’s a cyclical quality to that insistence. Jon’s efforts are repetitions of the efforts made by Jeor Mormont in the second season of the show: The lord commander of the Night’s Watch, after he had been attacked in his chamber by a wight, had sent a letter to the Small Council at King’s Landing, asking them for military aid. The White Walkers were moving south, Mormont told the king’s advisors. The Night’s Watch needed help fending them off. “Cold winds are rising, and the dead rise with them,” the lord commander had written.
Grand Maester Pycelle was not inclined to believe. “The northerners are a superstitious people,” he said.
“Mormont doesn’t lie,” Tyrion noted.  
Cersei, too, was dismissive. “One trip to the Wall and you come back believing in grumkins and snarks,” she told her brother.  
“I don’t know what I believe,” Tyrion replied. “But here’s a fact for you: The Night’s Watch is the only thing that separates us from what lies beyond the Wall.”
The council session ended; Mormont’s request went ignored. It’s taken several seasons for it, like the army of the dead, to rise again—this time, through the person of Jon Snow.  
“I put my trust in you, a stranger,” the king of the north tells Daenerys, “because I knew it was the best chance for my people — for all my people. Now I’m asking you to trust in a stranger because it’s our best chance.”
This time: The requests are heeded. Jon has spent the current season of Game of Thrones building a coalition devoted to facts—and to facing head-on the threat those facts represent. With the help of Tyrion, he is convincing Jaime—and, with Jaime’s help, Cersei—of the fact that the White Walkers are real. He is convincing Dany that Winter is not merely coming, but nonfictional.
They all, like Jon, still have their work cut out for them. “Cersei thinks the army of the dead is nothing but a story, made up by wet nurses to fight children,” Tyrion notes. “What if we prove her wrong?” He then advises Jon to fight reticence with evidence: to bring a wight—an ice-zombie—to the south, physical proof that winter is coming because, indeed, winter has already come. “Bring one of these things to King’s Landing,” Tyrion says, “and show her the truth.”
It’s an absurd plan. It’s absurd on its face; it’s absurd when Jaime sums it up to Cersei: “An army of dead men is marching on the Seven Kingdoms,” the brother informs the sister. “Tyrion says he’ll have proof.”
And yet it’s an absurdity born of necessity. Westeros is a world of hard lives and hard truths; its people are generally not inclined to believe in fairy tales. It, too, is a land that is guided by the paranoid style. Its people believe in different gods, and the trouble can come when they are asked to believe in truths about the physical world. The White Walkers are sometimes compared to climate change, and Jon Snow is sometimes compared to Al Gore: a speaker of truths that many people are not ready to hear. Jon and his ad-hoc team, in their mission, are seeking, essentially, the hard data that will make apocalypse feel to people less like a far-off story and more like an immediate threat. An existential one.
Sam, too, is engaged in that work: He knows that the maesters of the Citadel can be crucial in the fight to convince people to do some fighting in the first place. “Everyone in Westeros trusts and respects you,” Sam tells the wizened men assembled before him, appealing to their egos as well as their sense of civic duty. “If you tell people the threat is real, they’ll believe it. If you advise all the lords to send their men north to hold the Wall, they’ll do it. And if you tell every maester in the Citadel, they may find something that lets you defeat the army of the dead for good.”
“It could be done,” Archmaester Marwyn replies. “And this news could be authentic.” He pauses. “It’s possible.”


Clyde Logan (Adam Driver), a one-armed bartender in a small West Virginia town, is convinced his family is cursed. And he’s got plenty of reason to think so: He lost his arm to a roadside mine on his way home from his second tour in Iraq, and his brother Jimmy (Channing Tatum) can’t keep a job because of a lingering leg injury (or, as his apologetic boss puts it, a preexisting condition). Clyde looks back into the Logan family history and finds only misery, using the failings of his ancestors as an excuse for staying put in life. But where Clyde sees trouble, Jimmy sees opportunity—and a chance to reverse their misfortune.
Logan Lucky, Steven Soderbergh’s first film in four years (and his grand comeback from self-imposed retirement), is a jangly jaunt of a heist movie, following Jimmy’s elaborate plan to rob the NASCAR Coca-Cola 600 race at Charlotte Motor Speedway. The film has the same breezy feeling as Soderbergh’s Ocean’s Eleven, being a caper movie where, even as things go wrong, there’s never a pressing sense of danger. But Logan Lucky works because the stakes are higher than they initially seem: Just as Danny Ocean was really striving to reclaim his lost love, Jimmy and Clyde Logan are looking to disprove decades of family misery. They’re seeking a cosmic realignment.
Magic Mike XXL: This Time It Really Is for the Ladies
The robbery itself is low on pathos (there’s not even a villainous businessman, like Andy Garcia in Ocean’s Eleven, to cheer against), but Soderbergh smartly grounds it in emotion rather than greed, making a ridiculous scheme sound downright sensible. Jimmy is out of a job, yes, and needs a few bucks to hire a lawyer for his ongoing custody battle with his ex-wife Bobbie Jo (Katie Holmes). But there’s no dying relative, no massive debt owed to the mob, no overriding reason for him to try and pull off such a daring heist. Rather, Jimmy is trying to prove the very gods of luck wrong, and it makes him that much more fun to root for.
Logan Lucky feels like a Coen brothers movie, down to its fairly cartoonish view of life in West Virginia. There are plenty of John Denver references made, trucker hats worn, and broad Southern accents. There’s also a delightful grab-bag of colorful supporting roles for the sparkling cast: Hilary Swank as a meticulous investigator, Riley Keough as the Logans’ capable sister Mellie, Dwight Yoakam as a preening prison warden. Best of all is Daniel Craig as the expert safecracker Joe Bang, whom the brothers decide to break out of prison for his special skills, then break back into prison once the heist is done.
Most of the lead performers are easygoing: Tatum’s Jimmy is a hop and a step removed from the actor’s work in Soderbergh’s Magic Mike, a down-home boy possessed of a quiet brand of confidence. Driver’s Clyde is just slightly edgier, but Logan Lucky isn’t filled with the kind of violent hotheads you might expect from a heist story. Craig, whose Joe Bang sports a peroxide-blonde crew-cut that accentuates his ice-blue eyes, is the closest Logan Lucky comes to having a wild card. Even he’s more grounded than you’d assume, in one scene patiently explaining the science of an explosive bag of gummy bears he rigs up for the safe-cracking.
As with Ocean’s Eleven, the thrill of this film isn’t in whatever mortal danger the Logan brothers might be in, it’s the goofy joy of watching their plan come together, and witnessing Jimmy and Clyde side-step obstacles with grace. In all, it’s a gentle return from retirement for Soderbergh. Logan Lucky is like a cheerful sing-a-long of a movie, sweeping its audience along easily, even if some of the details quickly vanish from memory.
But, of course, Soderbergh was never really retired from moviemaking. It seems he was just looking for new ways to tell his stories and frustrated with a studio system that largely ignores these kind of actor-driven, mid-sized films that used to dominate Hollywood. Soderbergh made The Knick, a terrific exploration of the human ecosystem of a hospital in the early 20th century, on television. He served as the cinematographer and editor of Magic Mike XXL, the tone-poem sequel to his male-stripper movie that bathed its chiseled cast in moody color filters. Logan Lucky is yet another of Soderbergh’s wonderful ensemble pieces, one that should stand out in the cinematic doldrums of August.


The trolley problem, that hoary old mainstay of philosophy syllabi and drunken ethical squabbles, is, to put it bluntly, hot right now. Just this year, it’s popped up in episodes of both Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt and Orange Is the New Black, as characters wrestled with the principles of utilitarianism and what it means to try to do good in the world. It’s also become a meme, as New York’s Select All explored last year: a framework for people to explore everything from pro-life principles to the death of Harambe.
The problem, in its most basic form, goes like this: A runaway trolley car is heading toward five people, and if it hits them, they will die. You, the problem solver, are standing by a lever that enables you to redirect the trolley to a siding where only one person is standing. By pushing the lever you will save five lives but be directly responsible for the loss of one. Do you pull the lever—seek the greatest good for the greatest number—or do nothing, and let fate take its course?
Escaped Alone Finds Comfort at the End of the World
The issue with this particular conundrum, though, as Sarah Bakewell wrote in 2013, is that while people think they’re creatures of reason, our instincts are actually “fickle and easily manipulated.” And this is also the problem with direct democracy in general—when we’re asked to vote on matters of national importance, we tend to be uninformed, personally biased, or swayed by the strangest of factors. The Majority, a new show at London’s National Theatre by the performer and playwright Rob Drummond, is inspired by a wave of recent electoral upsets, from the Scottish independence referendum in 2014 to the Brexit vote last year. Throughout the show, Drummond asks a series of timely questions to which the audience votes “yes” or “no” on in real time, with the results immediately revealed, as he demonstrates how easily the shape of a question can alter its answer.
The questions range from the personal to the timely. Are we, the audience members, liberal? (90.55 percent yes.) Are we white? (91.18 percent yes.) Do we use social media? (67.29 percent yes.) Do we believe in absolute freedom of speech? (61.68 percent no.) Is violence sometimes the answer? (51.16 percent no.) Would we pull the lever to save five people? (70.94 percent yes.) What if, instead of pulling the lever, we had to push a fat man over a bridge to save five lives? Could we do it? (71.05 percent no, almost exactly the same percentage that would pull the lever the first time.) “It’s different when it’s a person, isn’t it?” Drummond notes, as if pondering our inconsistency.
These votes tend to play out as if the audience is participating in a game of Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? While we vote, on small devices that are given out before the show begins, jaunty music plays and a giant clock projected onto the stage ticks down the time remaining. The votes are interspersed with Drummond’s narrative, a strange, meandering story about how he got involved with the anti-fascism movement and ended up being arrested for punching a white supremacist. Drummond seems to want to use his personal experiences to illuminate the questions at hand, but his gonzo style means it’s hard to tell what’s real and what’s creative license.
As the show proceeds, the tone of the recurrent trolley questions gets darker, as if to emphasize to the audience the potential consequences of even the most theoretical questions. Would we save one innocent person to kill five nonviolent neo-Nazis? Should we vote for Drummond to dox a Scottish white nationalist—who pops up a handful of times in the story—right then and there? (On the night I attended, the audience voted “yes,” and Drummond dutifully typed the man’s name and address into a comment section on a website that may or may not be real.)
Drummond is an engaging host, although the show’s frequent jumps in style and tone sometimes make him feel like an interrogator rather than an entertainer. The pace often drags in his measured descriptions of his friendship with a mentally ill Scottish beekeeper obsessed with bringing down the “Nazis” who were overtaking his town, and the narrative doesn’t cohere as well as it should with the questions The Majority asks. But the show’s concept is a fascinating one, exposing the foibles and contradictions embedded in the minds of an audience of majority white, liberal, non-male theatergoers—which is exactly the audience Drummond wants to target, although conservatives who attend might find themselves in the majority more than they’d think. When he asks people to vote on whether they believe in absolute freedom of speech, and only 38.82 percent say yes, he pauses. “Liberal,” he says, with ironic emphasis.
By the end of the 90-minute production, after Drummond has shared his disgust with himself for, as he puts it, “punching a man for having an opinion,” the audience seems shaken. When he asks us again whether it’s okay to abuse someone for something they personally believe, 87.64 percent say no. He has, essentially, converted us. But the ease with which he’s done it is yet another unnerving element to bolster his argument—that few of us really know or deeply consider what we’re voting for.


It read like a poem—or, perhaps, an elegy.
“We
strongest
this egregious
bigotry, and
no place in”
And there the words ended: paper-printed snippets of the statement President Trump had delivered on Saturday, reacting to the events that had taken place in Charlottesville. “We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry, and violence,” he had said—before adding, apparently as an ad-lib: “On many sides, on many sides.” The president repeated those words on Monday, when he made, under pressure from his colleagues and from American citizens, a more expansive statement on Charlottesville. The bigotry on display in that city, he said, reading directly from a prompter, “has no place in America.”
Trump Defends White-Nationalist Protesters: 'Some Very Fine People on Both Sides'
On Tuesday, however, those words were replaced with new ones—during a press conference, set in the lobby of Trump Tower, that was meant to be about infrastructure, but that quickly came to be about Charlottesville. At one point, President Trump removed from his jacket pocket the text of his earlier statement, printed in large and blunt sans serif, to refer to what he had said before: “I brought it, I brought it,” he said of that text, reading it once again before putting it down, figuratively and extremely literally. The Associated Press photographer Pablo Martinez Monsivais captured the moment—in which only those few words, the we and the strongest and the egregious bigotry, were visible to viewers—and the reporter Colin Campbell tweeted the results: Here was the president referring to the carefully calibrated words that had been prepared for him. And here he was, replacing them—effectively erasing them—with new ones: words that, as The New York Times summed it up, give white supremacists “an unequivocal boost.” Words that led David Duke to cheer for the new order of things.
And, also, significantly: spoken words. Words that had not been prepared or otherwise vetted, but that seemed to have come directly from the mind of the president. Words, delivered in the presence of cabinet members who had come to talk about roads and bridges—they had brought scrolls printed with construction timelines to serve as visual aids—words that reportedly left members of the president’s staff “stunned and disheartened” precisely because they were public airings of “opinions that the president had long expressed in private.” Words that regressed to Saturday’s ad-libbed false equivalence: many sides, many sides.
Tuesday’s press conference will very likely be remembered as a moment of extreme moral clarity—the moment in which the emperor, speaking in his golden chamber with the aid of scrolls and servants, revealed himself, once again, for what he is. But there was something else that crystallized in that press conference: that image of the president, taking the words of reconciliation—words that had been selected and edited and set in the permanence of print—and undoing them. The president privileging his own words, the work of a mind in a moment, over those that had been chosen for him. In an instant, the “we” of the statement had been replaced, effectively, with an “I.”
Writing suggests rationality. Writing suggests consideration. Writing suggests external memory—Plato was wary of it, for precisely this reason—but it also suggests memory that is, by default, collective. The law distinguishes between written agreements and verbal ones, between libel and slander, between words that come in the heat of the moment, essentially, and words that take their time to breathe and cool. So do most people: When you really care about something—when you want to make sure you don’t forget about it—you generally write it down.
Those distinctions, however, are considerably less meaningful when it comes to American presidents, whose words are understood to be not merely their own, but the nation’s. Presidential words are traditionally the work of many behind-the-scenes writers; even when those words are spoken and “off the cuff”—even when they’re uttered in impromptu press conferences or on whimsical comedy shows—they have still, traditionally, adopted the deliberately calibrated approaches of text. Let me be clear, President Obama would say. Read my lips, George H. W. Bush put it, ruinously.
This caution, certainly, can be a frustration to people who simply want to know what a president is thinking. There’s a reason that “scripted,” in the political context, is usually something of a slur. In a broader sense, though, the sanctity of presidential words has long been an element of the compact between the presidency and the public. He will speak intentionally, the promise goes. He will speak carefully. He will speak understanding that he is speaking not merely for himself, but for all Americans. He will speak with the knowledge that, though he may be president, his mind—his particular sense of the world—is not the only one that matters.
Donald Trump rejects these norms. He treats his Twitter feed not as President Obama treated his—as a platform through which the White House, with all the institutions embedded in it, might speak to the nation—but as a mainline to the presidential mind. All the insults. All the typos. All the statements that would seem to suggest national policy, coming as they do from the president, but that often amount simply to angry observations. When President Trump speaks, in other words, he speaks for himself—often to the surprise and occasionally to the horror of the people charged with sending messages on behalf of the White House. It’s one reason Trump’s admirers admire him: the honesty of it, the ease of it, the rip-out-the-middleman efficiency of it. President Trump tells it like it is, they note. No political correctness here. No compromise here.
The other way of looking at the president’s attitude, though, is the way that is captured so elegantly in Pablo Martinez Monsivais’s image of those curtailed notes: as a rejection of the communal nature of government. Here were words that had been printed out for the president—words that he had delivered to a wounded and weary nation. Here were words that were written down in every meaningful sense of that phrase: carefully selected by a team of committed people, with an eye toward inclusion and an aim at the sweep of history. Words that were edited, and considered, and reconsidered, and calibrated for a country that is as diverse as it is immense.
And, then: Here were those same words, undone in the span of minutes. Here was all that careful writing, and editing, and fact-checking, nullified by the president’s erroneous equivalencies, by his ad-libbed words about the “alt-left” and George Washington. Here was the American president, choosing the workings of his own mind over the workings of the presidency. On Tuesday, President Trump used printed text to remind reporters, and the country, of what he had said before—what he had read before: “We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry, and violence. It has no place in America.” The president added, shifting in subject from the plural “we” to the singular Donald Trump: “And then I went on from there.”


To the question, “Do you know the work of Randy Newman,” the answer is too often, “The guy who did the Toy Story soundtrack? ‘You’ve got a friend in me …’ that’s him, right?”
And okay, sure. He composed soundtracks to the whole Toy Story series, among other well-loved films: Ragtime, The Natural, Parenthood, Awakenings, The Paper, Maverick, A Bug’s Life, Meet the Parents, Seabiscuit, Monsters University, and more. But summing him up like that is a bit like saying, “F. Scott Fitzgerald. Wasn’t he a screenwriter?”
The Film That’s Missing From the ‘Century’s Greatest’ Lists
Because while Newman is a talented and sought-after soundtrack composer, he is also a solo artist with a catalog as original as any in popular music. It stretches back to 1968. Yet even most folks who can hum his biggest commercial hits, “Short People,” “Mama Told Me Not to Come” (popularized by Three Dog Night), and “I Love L.A.,” fail to grasp how he would be regarded in a more just and discerning world. For Randy Newman is the foremost musical satirist of his generation––and the characters he has created and themes he has explored over his career show as nuanced a grasp of America’s dark currents and humanity’s crooked timber as any songwriter has managed. In fact, there may be no one in the American songbook whose work did more to anticipate the tragicomic place the United States finds itself in today.
His latest solo album, Dark Matter, added to that corpus when it dropped earlier this month. To grasp its worthy continuities and its single disappointment, I must first take you back.
* * *
The eponymous debut album that Randy Newman released in 1968 was a portent of all that followed. Its 11 tracks might be described as rock or pop except that they were backed by a full orchestra. Poignant songs about romantic longing, like “Love Story (You and Me)” and “Living Without You,” were juxtaposed with character-driven vignettes like “So Long Dad,” darkly irreverent commentaries on the human condition like “I Think He’s Hiding” (Newman’s response to Nietzsche’s claim that “God is dead”), and “The Beehive State,” a quirky tune of ambiguous meaning set on the floor of Congress. In time all those modes would be refined, all those subjects explored.
The songwriter’s second album, 12 Songs, established his willingness to create the darkest of unreliable narrators to plumb subjects as fraught as men who prey on women, as in “Suzanne,” and America’s long history of racist minstrelsy and stereotyping. His approach carried risks as surely as Vladimir Nabokov’s decision to channel Humbert Humbert in Lolita and Norman Lear’s creation of Archie Bunker for All in the Family. Newman benefitted from coming up in an era when critics protectively explained nuanced art to mass audiences rather than trying to stoke umbrage. Here is Rolling Stone’s  Bruce Grimes in a five-star review of the album:
Randy's concern with stereotyping led him to include "Underneath the Harlem Moon," the only song on the album he didn't write. Composed in the Twenties, every line contains some of the most blatant racial typing ever set down in song: "They just live for dancin'/They're never blue for long/It's no sin to laugh or grin/That's why darkies were born." Newman follows this cut with his own contemporary parallel, "Yellow Man."
After performing these songs at the Lion's Share, Randy said, "I was afraid I might be misunderstood and someone would jump on stage and beat hell out of me." Randy Newman's songs are not heavy-handed, and his humor is rarely direct.
He comes at you from corners.
This oblique approach bore fruit on his next album. Its title track, an anti-slavery song, might have been ignored as heavy-handed or predictable if the liberal songwriter had taken a straightforward approach. Instead, Newman captured the horrors of enslavement anew with “Sail Away.” The listener only gradually comes to see that the narrator waxing poetic about the wonders of America is actually duplicitously coaxing Africans aboard a slave ship, falsely promising that once they cross the ocean, they’ll just “sing about Jesus and drink wine all day––it’s great to be an American.”  
And the B-side of the album was just as cutting. Its first song is still relevant to anyone pondering the Strangelovian strains of American jingoism. He titled it “Political Science”:
No one likes us, I don't know why
We may not be perfect, but heaven knows we try
But all around even our old friends put us down
Let's drop the big one and see what happens
We give them money, but are they grateful?
No, they're spiteful and they're hateful
They don't respect us, so let's surprise them
We'll drop the big one and pulverize them
Asia's crowded, Europe's too old
Africa's far too hot and Canada's too cold
South America stole our name
Let's drop the big one there'll be no one left to blame us
We'll save Australia, don't want to hurt no kangaroo
We'll build an all American amusement park there
They've got surfing, too
Boom goes London, boom Paris
More room for you and more room for me
And every city the whole world round
Will just be another American town
Oh, how peaceful it'll be, we'll set everybody free
You'll have Japanese kimonos, baby
There'll be Italian shoes for me
They all hate us anyhow, so let's drop the big one now
After all that, it felt like a relief to arrive at a song about the Cuyahoga River fire of 1969, when an oil slick on the polluted Cleveland waterway caught fire, inspiring lyrics that deserve immortality: “Well the Lord can make you tumble / And the Lord can make you turn / The Lord can make you overflow / But the Lord can’t make you burn.”
(Not that he lets the Lord off either.)
Rolling Stone’s list of the 500 best albums of all time includes the songwriter’s next effort, Good Old Boys. “This album is no simple character study, but a composite survey of the roots and institutionalization of Southern bigotry in the 20th century,” Winston Cook-Wilson observed in Pitchfork––“in other words, the diciest and most formidable project Randy Newman had (and has) ever attempted.” It opens with “Rednecks,” where a “good old boy” narrator recalls watching a segregationist governor on a late-night program:
Last night I saw Lester Maddox on a TV show
With some smart ass New York Jew
And the Jew laughed at Lester Maddox
And the audience laughed at Lester Maddox too
Well he may be a fool but he's our fool
If they think they're better than him they're wrong
So I went to the park and I took some paper along
And that's where I made this song
What followed might’ve compared to “Southern Man,” Neil Young’s jeremiad against racism south of the Mason Dixon line, with Newman marshaling a character to skewer his own prejudice rather than scolding, “when will you pay him back?”
But unlike Young, Newman wasn’t content to let smug Northern liberals off the hook, even by omission. Thus a turn toward the end of the song when the redneck narrator pivots to an observation laden with that worst epithet: “Down here we're too ignorant to realize / That the North has set the nigger free / Yes he's free to be put in a cage in Harlem in New York City / And he's free to be put in a cage in the South-Side of Chicago /And the West-Side /And he's free to be put in a cage in Hough in Cleveland / And he's free to be put in a cage in East St. Louis / And he's free to be put in a cage in Fillmore in San Francisco / And he's free to be put in a cage in Roxbury in Boston.”
If every last listener was uncomfortable, Newman felt he’d done his job. The song may be the most uncompromising instance, among white songwriters, of putting artistic vision before commercial concerns: Here is the first track of an album that risked offending anti-racists who misunderstood its intentions; could hardly have done more to alienate the white South; and closed by taking added shots at a literal list of Northern cities where an upcoming artist with a small following would want to perform.
As if to confound listeners even more, Newman revisited his Southern man on later tracks, showing that he was neither a misanthrope nor a one-note polemicist, for “Birmingham,” “Marie,” and “Mr. President, Have Pity on the Working Man” were as humanizing in their portrayal of their subjects as “Rednecks” was scathing and unsparing. Never has cynicism been packaged with so much sentiment. Says Mike Powell, “Newman can get an orchestra to pull tears from you like a pickpocket. His sleight-of-hand is to bring out a monster and make you see the human underneath.”
Rounding out the concept album, Good Old Boys also included perhaps the most beautiful song that Newman ever wrote, “Louisiana 1927,” and two songs distilling the populist Louisiana governor Huey P. Long, “Every Man a King” and “Kingfish.”
Quoth the latter song, told from Long’s perspective:
I'm a cracker
And you are too
But don't I take good care of you
Who built the highway to Baton Rouge?
Who put up the hospital and built you schools?
Who looks after shit-kickers like you?
The Kingfish do
Who gave a party at the Roosevelt Hotel?
And invited the whole north half of the state down there for free
The people in the city
Had their eyes bugging out
Cause everyone of you
Looked just like me
(Before Twitter, populists actually delivered spoils to their supporters rather than expecting them to stay loyal based on no more than occasional demagogic missives.)
Now let’s skip ahead to 1979. The album is Born Again, the song, “It’s Money That I Love,” a straightforward if exaggerated portrayal of an ethos you’ll no doubt recognize:
I don't love the mountains / I don't love the sea
I don't love Jesus / He never done a thing for me
I ain't pretty like my sister / Or smart like my dad
Or good like my mama
It's money that I love
It's money that I love
They say that's money / Can't buy love in this world
But it'll get you a half-pound of cocaine / And a 19-year-old girl
And a great big long limousine / On a hot September night
Now that may not be love but it is all right
A few years later, he released Trouble in Paradise, an album best known for “I Love L.A.” The song would play at the Great Western Forum during Lakers games when I was a kid, in spite of those inevitable Newman twists that distinguished it from boosterism:
From the South Bay to the Valley
From the West Side to the East Side
Everybody's very happy
'Cause the sun is shining all the time
Looks like another perfect day
I love L.A. (we love it)
I love L.A. (we love it)
We love it
Look at that mountain
Look at those trees
Look at that bum over there, man
He's down on his knees
Look at these women
There ain't nothing like 'em nowhere
While Trouble in Paradise touches on everything from apartheid to the changing demographics of Long Beach as experienced by a white old-timer who doesn’t much like his new neighbors, its best tracks, by my lights, capture the particular entitlement of wealthy Southern Californians so adeptly that I’m still marveling. The self-indicting portrait of the narrator in “Take Me Back” is deliciously subtle. And here’s a bit of “My Life Is Good,” an upbeat song that zeroes in on the essence of a character nearly anyone associated with a private school in a wealthy area has met:
The other afternoon my wife and I
Took a little ride into Beverly Hills
Went to the private school our oldest child attends
Many famous people send their children there
This teacher says to us "We have a problem here
This child just will not do a thing I tell him to.
And he's such a big old thing. He hurts the other children.
All the games they play, he plays so rough..."
Hold it teacher / Wait a minute
Maybe my ears are clogged or somethin'
Maybe I'm not understanding the English language
Dear, you don't seem to realize:
My life is good
My life is good, you old bag
So many Newman characters, for all their different milieus, share an abiding disregard for the effect that their actions and attitudes have on those around them. That theme is exaggerated for effect on a track from the 1988 album Land of Dreams:
I ran out on my children / And I ran out on my wife
Gonna run out on you too baby / I done it all my life
Everybody cried the night I left / Well almost everybody did
My little boy just hung his head / I put my arm put my arm around his little shoulder / And this is what I said:
"Sonny I just want you to hurt like I do
I just want you to hurt like I do
I just want you to hurt like I do
Honest I do honest I do, honest I do"
The same character carried his disregard for his family over to his attitudes toward the public:
If I had one wish / One dream I knew would come true
I'd want to speak to all the people of the world
I'd get up there, I'd get up there on that platform
First I'd sing a song or two (you know I would)
Then I'll tell you what I'd do
I'd talk to the people and I'd say
"It's a rough rough world, it's a tough tough world
And things don't always go the way we plan
But there's one thing we all have in common
And it's something everyone can understand
All over the world sing along
I just want you to hurt like I do ...
Honest I do, honest I do, honest I do”
Then, every so often, amid the awful characters and biting satire on Newman albums, the unreliable narrators are sent off on break, and Newman does deeply earnest with the best of them. In relief, the gut-punch quality of the songs are accentuated.
That last linked song is from Harps and Angels, a 2008 release that was, one senses, supposed to mark the conclusion of a low-point in American politics. “Just a few words in defense of our country,” a circumspect Newman began, “… whose time at the top could be coming to an end. Now, we don't want their love. And respect at this point's pretty much out of the question. But in times like these we sure could use a friend.”
The defense of the country turns out to be a widely ranging history of bygone powers far less defensible. The indictment includes a critique of War on Terror excesses.
Newman leaves us with this observation:
The end of an empire
Is messy at best
And this empire's ending
Like all the rest
Like the Spanish Armada
Adrift on the sea
We're adrift in the land of the brave
And the home of the free
When I listened to that song I started worrying, because it sounded a bit like a culmination. I thought there was a chance that Newman wouldn’t make another album. Almost a decade passed without one. And that brings us up to the present year.
* * *
My hope that there would be a new Randy Newman album was reinvigorated months ago when, without warning, a new single appeared online. Its title: “Putin.” So political events had drawn the master satirist back to the piano! The song is told from the perspectives of a chorus of sycophants and the Russian leader himself, as in this scene, inspired by Putin’s geopolitical incursions into Crimea and its coastline:
He and his ex-wife Lyudmila are riding along the shore of the beautiful new Russian Black Sea
Let's listen in, a great man is speaking:
“We fought a war for this?
I'm almost ashamed
The Mediterranean
Now there's a resort worth fighting for”
“Putin” made me want a new Randy Newman album like I want a new season of The Wire; like I want Brian Wilson and Paul McCartney to collaborate writing songs for an HBO alt-history series about Brian joining Paul, John, and George in a supergroup circa 1969; like I want lost chapters of Don Quixote to be discovered in Salamanca.
And I kept imagining what the song after “Putin” might be.
Here was a songwriter who had excelled at commenting on politics; on Southern white populism; on “America First” jingoism; on nuclear war; on characters who love nothing more than money; on entitled men who prey on women, betray wives, chase women, and narcissistically crave public attention. What would the greatest musical satirist of his generation, who approaches nearly every subject obliquely, say about Donald Trump, a figure more ripe than any other for his dark humor and tragicomedy?
The new album, Dark Matter, is a delight. Its title track is a meditation on the relationship between science and religion in Newman’s inimitable style. And as it turned out, the song after “Putin,” “Lost Without You,” is one of those earnest Newman gut-punches: A widow speaks to his deceased wife, recounting the last time she saw their adult children and the instructions she gave about what to do when she’s gone:
Hush up, children
Let me breathe
I've been listening to you all your life
Are they hungry, are they sick?
What is it they need?
Now it's your turn to listen to me
I was young when we met
And afraid of the world
Now it's he who's afraid
And I'm leaving
Make sure he sleeps in his bed at night
Don't let him sleep in that chair
If he holds out his hand to you, hold it tight
If that makes you uncomfortable
Or if it embarrasses you
I don't care.
A Trump song never did come––and I got over it. Maybe this moment is too new to capture. In fact, I began to think, maybe Randy Newman has already given us everything there is to say about Trump and Trumpism in bits and pieces over the years. But then I listened to his recent interview with Marc Maron. Of course the president came up. And the songwriter mentioned that he might have found a way to write about the man––that a song with an oblique approach was rattling around in his head.
And okay, sure, I know there are concerts to perform to promote his new album; more films to score; Grammys to win; and golden years to enjoy; but I can’t help thinking that Newman could conceivably still have his best album in him. So if a single titled “Ivanka” drops one day, I’ll drop everything to listen. And if that appears on a final concept album? I’d say, “The country turns its lonely eyes to who? Randy Newman.”


Open any issue of The Wicked + The Divine, the critically acclaimed modern-fantasy series from Image Comics, and the first thing you see is spectacle and sound. Jamie McKelvie’s art breathes life into the stories of 12 gods reincarnated as pop stars: When one deity puts on a rock show, crackling energy explodes across the page, like music at the loudest and most impressive concert you’ve ever been to. The snap of a god’s fingers can make a cigarette flair into life—or cause a head to explode. Kieron Gillen’s dialogue flashes out across the panels, some witty, some heartfelt, some magical. It’s all brilliant work by two creators at the top of their game. But without the additional contributions of talents like the colorist Matthew Wilson and the letterer Clayton Cowles, it would all fall flat.
Though they rarely get the acclaim of superstar artists and writers, colorists and letterers are the secret sauce behind most comic-book storytelling. Colorists are the cinematographers of graphic narrative, laying hues over art to control mood and style; letterers are the sound designers, crafting fonts, effects, and speech balloons to bring noise to a silent medium. Both often operate behind the scenes. But as comics gain more mainstream attention, many in both fields are pushing for greater recognition of their contributions.  
In comics, it’s a truism that the best coloring and lettering is the sort you don’t notice. The goal of both disciplines is to meld so harmoniously with the underlying pencil art that they nearly disappear. Yet both are deeply intertwined with the more playful side of cartooning. The result is a delicate balancing act between fundamental principles and individual experimentation.
For Joe Caramagna, a letterer who’s worked on several Marvel books including Daredevil, Black Widow, and The Amazing Spider-Man, the no-frills approach is usually the way to go. When he gets a script, he pastes dialogue into digital-lettering templates, before working out balloon positioning and flow. For a new series, he’ll pick a font he that feels works with the look of the book. “I try to keep the lettering as clean and classic-looking as possible because I don’t want to try to upstage the art,” Caramagna told me.
It’s the letterer’s primary job to arrange speech balloons in ways that don’t obscure the art, and that lead the eye through the natural rhythms of a conversation. Legibility and clarity are vital: It should be obvious at a glance who’s speaking, and when. But letterers also have to calibrate their work to the art itself. “I’ve had editors ask for me to give a [word] balloon a loud screaming effect, because they want the moment to be bigger and more dramatic,” Caramagna said. “But the artist drew the character as steaming, not screaming. So it doesn’t work.”
Other letterers are a bit more experimental. For example, Deron Bennett (Batgirl, Batman, and Tale of Sand) likes to occasionally flex his creative muscles, and tap into his interest in typography and design. When the script calls for it, Bennett works out ways to show word balloons as if they’re underwater, or coming from behind glass or force fields. Working on the book Hacktivist from the imprint Archaia, Bennett developed a clever way of signaling dialogue in a foreign language; when multiple languages are present in the dialogue, each is written in a different color, with a bit of calligraphy from the language in question attached.
“We were going to be slipping in and out of different languages, and leaving a note each time would have been visual clutter,” Bennett said of Hacktivist. “So I looked at what we do to suggest singing in comics—a simple music note on the side of a balloon. I decided if I could just symbolize the language in the same way, it should work in distinguishing what was being spoken.” The result is intuitive and unobtrusive, as the best lettering often is.
While coloring might seem more flashy, it’s also a careful balance between individual flair and the needs of the underlying art. Colorists these days usually work digitally, painting over the pencils or inks provided by the series’ artists, using cues from scripts and art and conversations with writers to decide on tone. “The overall mood to the book is throughout the script and context for the larger story,” said Jordie Bellaire, the colorist of Moon Knight, Injection, and Hawkeye. “That informs the way the colors should feel as well. I try to keep myself open to the art and writing to try new things ... for things like speed and action, I try to find the simplest and most believable route to create an effect.”
Years before he began working on The Wicked + The Divine, Matthew Wilson started out at Zylonol Studios, a coloring outfit run by another artist. Initially he scanned original art and did technical work before moving on to color separation, a process where hand-colored work was reproduced in digital files. (The ubiquity of digital drawing now basically means this doesn’t exist anymore.) Eventually Wilson was making enough at Zylonol that he was able to branch out, taking on freelance coloring projects, gaining critical attention, and moving onto bigger books, including Daredevil, Black Widow, Paper Girls, and many others. “After 14 years of working at home, I’m totally unqualified to do anything other than color a comic book at this point,” Wilson said. “I’ve digitally painted myself into a corner!”
In 2013, Wilson teamed up with Gillen, McKelvie, and the letterer Clayton Cowles to produce Young Avengers, a critical and fan-favorite relaunch of a 2005 Marvel property. Wilson had previously worked with Gillen and McKelvie on their book Phonogram, and as they finished Young Avengers, Gillen and McKelvie invited both men onto a new, creator-owned project they were planning. In 2014, the book came out under the name The Wicked + The Divine. The book stars a dozen gods, incarnated in young-adult form as pop stars: Lucifer arrives looking like Bowie’s Thin White Duke, Inanna has shades of Prince, Sakhmet bears a close resemblance to Rihanna. They are loved and hated; within two years, they are dead. The plot is a snappy stew of arena-rock spectacle, superhero soap opera, and meticulously plotted murder mystery.
Early on, the team experimented a great deal with The Wicked + The Divine’s look, trying to nail down the signature colors of the gods. Then came figuring out how to make the colors really sing. All agreed that the magical performances and miracles needed to pop off the page. “I set up a lot of the non-performance/miracle stuff to be a bit more subdued, so that by comparison the bright colors I use when the gods show off seem even more colorful and extraordinary,” Wilson said.
In Issue #8, the teenage protagonist Laura Wilson goes to a rave thrown by the god Dionysus. Gillen wanted imagery that communicated the feeling of being high at a party; after thinking about it, Wilson used shifting gradients of hues to wash out the linework and communicate the speed and pulse of the music. “Even when the gods in this comic are basically doing big superhero fights, we’ve always wanted their powers to look and feel different than a typical superhero book,” Wilson explained. “We look at a lot of fashion photography, music videos, and art installations to draw inspiration for the look of the gods and their powers.”
Other performances were trickier to sell, though. “Kieron [Gillen] writes these incredibly abstract ideas, which evoke some amazing imagery, but are sometimes a bit tough to actually depict,” Wilson said. “Kieron’s script will say something like, ‘and their powers are waves of extreme nothingness pouring over the crowd’ and then I have to go figure out what fucking color ‘extreme nothingness’ is.”
In a book about music and murder, how the characters speak is also pretty important, which is where Cowles comes in. He has worked as a letterer on books including Bitch Planet, Batman, and Journey Into Mystery, the latter of which was also a Gillen project. Cowles said his lettering philosophy is “enhance, don’t distract,” though WicDiv offers plenty of opportunities to play around. There’s only one consistent sound effect in the book: the “KLLLK” of a finger-snap, which starts the story off and accompanies many of its more shocking moments. The rest is up for grabs.
While civilian characters speak in traditional balloons, Cowles decided that the gods’ voices in WicDiv would come in the same colors Wilson uses for their respective costumes. He also used custom lettering styles for specific characters, like Woden, a creepy, Daft Punk-influenced god. “Kieron wanted Woden to employ super- and subscripting to imitate the sound of a vocoder,” Cowles said. “I added a few of my own flourishes, like making Woden’s balloons square ... I take a similar approach to both character voices and sound effects. Through fonts, shape, and color, I try to make them look the way they sound.”
The Wicked + The Divine has been a resounding success for all concerned, selling well in both single issues and trade paperbacks, and picking up a deeply devoted following. (It’s also been optioned for a potential TV show by Universal, though there’s been little public movement on that front.) As beloved as the project is, however, everyone involved has to keep working.
Like many other creators in the comics industry these days, colorists and letterers are freelancers, moving between projects and publishers as money and oppurtunities dictate. Colorists and other creators typically sign a generic work-for-hire contract, which covers all the work they do for the publisher. (Contracts tying a colorist exclusively to a publisher will often have a timeline or number of issues spelled out, and stipulate what kind of side-work for other publishers is acceptable. According to Bellaire, typical page rates can run anywhere from $25 to $200 per page, depending on how senior you are in the industry. For letterers, it’s sometimes a different story—Caramagna and Cowles both work for Virtual Calligraphy, a lettering studio that is under contract to Marvel and thus provides relatively steady work.
Compensation and royalties can still be shaky, however. DC Comics added colorists to their royalty program a few years ago, Wilson said, but such steps forward have been accompanied by rates at other companies declining even as issue sales stay steady. Then there’s the occasional neglect colorists and letterers face from the editorial arms of the publishers, especially compared to writers.“Sometimes Joe the Letterer doesn’t know a book he’s been lettering every month has been cancelled until he sees it on Twitter,” Caramagna said. “I’d rather have Joe the Writer and Joe the Letterer have a similar experience when dealing with the publisher than get a vanity boost from seeing my name on a cover.”
But colorists and letterers do pop up on comic covers more often these days. In fact, the last few years have seen a real change in the way both disciplines are viewed by audiences. Comics journalists on websites like The Beat and the sadly defunct Comics Alliance often spotlight both disciplines, and creators often have devoted followings on social media. “It’s more common to see interviews with colorists now, both in articles and podcasts,” Wilson said. “When I started there was no YouTube or Twitch, and with those new outlets you can watch comics artists and colorists creating their work and explaining their process. It’s all much more open, and it’s allowed colorists to come a long way in terms of visibility.”
If nothing else, there’s always the respect of your peers. Bellaire has won two Eisner Awards—the comics equivalent of the Oscars—for her work, and Caramagna and Bennett have picked up nominations. The awards are based on the work of the comics giant Will Eisner, himself no slouch when it came to inventive lettering and colors. This year, Wilson won for Best Colorist, partly for his work on The Wicked + The Divine. It’s not quite being a god; but it’s nice to be recognized for your role in making the magic.


“I’m not allowed to joke anymore. I’ve learned that.”
All evidence, however, to the contrary. Anthony Scaramucci, the former communications director for the Trump White House, had come to his appearance on The Late Show With Stephen Colbert on Monday night prepared to be charming. He had come prepared to be self-deprecating. He had come prepared to make light—of his short tenure at the White House (“I didn’t think I’d last too long, but I thought I’d last longer than a carton of milk!”); of the New Yorker interview that led to his firing (“This conversation’s off the record! It’s off the record!”); of the combative relationship he’d fostered with his fellow White House staffers and with the media who document their doings (Scaramucci brought Colbert, as a cheeky nod to all that, a Bowie knife in a glass case).
‘He Is Not a President’
Scaramucci’s appearance had been booked last week (in an ironic twist—a mixup, apparently, on the part of Scaramucci’s communications team—he had agreed to two “exclusive” interviews post-firing, one with Colbert, and the other with ABC’s George Stephanopoulos). The interview with Colbert had been scheduled, in other words, before the tragedies of Charlottesville. It had been set before Scaramucci’s former boss had made his “on many sides, on many sides” hedge about the source of the hatred and violence—and before the events of a weekend had adopted the dimensions of a national moral crisis.
Scaramucci, however, seemed not to have fully calibrated for that new reality. He had come prepared to treat the appearance as he and his PR team had originally intended it—a bold first step in a brand-rehabilitation tour—and he stuck, again and again, to that script. Scaramucci yukked. (“I’ll pretend those are ‘Mooches’ and not boos, Stephen,” he said, good-naturedly, as the studio audience expressed its displeasure when he walked onstage.) He brought a pair of sunglasses for full Mooch effect. While taping the appearance, he posted a selfie outside of a bathroom on the Late Show set. “It’s not where you’ve been, it’s where you are going,” he tweeted, as a caption to that photo.
Colbert, however, had adjusted to the new state of affairs. He had devoted his monologue, on Monday, to Charlottesville—its hatred, its violence, its aftermath. And he had in particular condemned President Trump for his “many sides” comment. Colbert was doing what late-night comedians, more and more commonly, are doing: serving as arbiters, not just of humor but of morality. “It is difficult to express how heartbreaking it is to see something like this happening in our country,” Colbert noted. “But here’s one thing that’s not difficult to express: Nazis are bad. The KKK: I’m not a fan. That wasn’t hard. That was easy. I enjoyed saying it.”
The host brought that spirit into his interview with the man who had been so famously eager to join the Trump administration. He tried to talk with Scaramucci—not about “the Mooch,” but about the events of the past weekend. “I said no gotcha questions, I promised you no gotcha questions,” Colbert told Scaramucci, at the outset. “But I’m gonna lead with one: Nazis—good or bad?”
“Super bad,” Scaramucci replied.

Colbert asked Scaramucci about the statement the president finally issued on Monday, the one in which he personally condemned neo-Nazis, the Ku Klux Klan, and other white-supremacist hate groups.
“It was late, I’m not going to say that it wasn’t,” Scaramucci replied. (He had also criticized Trump to that effect in his interview with Stephanopoulos.) “But he did go to the White House today and he did make a statement,” Scaramucci continued, “that was very declarative against it.”
Colbert pointed out that the president’s “on many sides” comment had apparently been added, as his own ad-lib, to his official statement in response to Charlottesville. “Which one of them do you think he meant,” he asked Scaramucci—“the one that was written down, or the one that he just comes up with, in the moment?”
Scaramucci’s reply? “You guys have been super-rough on me,” he said. “You’ve been super-rough on him. But he is a compassionate person.”
Scaramucci defended the president as someone who was, in his comments about Charlottesville, simply “wearing his heart on his sleeve.” He talked about how the president had given up his “luxurious lifestyle” to become the president in the first place. He talked about the sacrifices the president has made to be in a position of leadership. And he talked about the sacrifices he himself had made to be there: “Being a communications director is a difficult job,” Scaramucci interjected, at one point, grinning.
Later, Colbert moved on to Scaramucci’s former White House colleague, Steve Bannon. He asked Scaramucci whether Bannon should be fired. Yes, Scaramucci replied—at least, he thought so. “Is Steve Bannon a white supremacist?” Colbert asked.
“I don’t think he’s a white supremacist, although I’ve never asked him,” Scaramucci replied. And then: “What I don’t like though is the toleration of it. It’s something that should be completely and totally intolerated.”
He added: “Most people in this audience, and perhaps your family, and definitely my family, has experienced some level of discrimination. And so I find it disgusting and reprehensible. And I will renounce it every living day of my life.”
There was a distinct teeth-pulling quality to all this: Colbert kept trying to talk about the world; Scaramucci kept trying to talk about himself. The Late Show versus The Mooch Show. Scaramucci answered Colbert’s questions—again and again, though, he tried to bring things back to the thing that had brought him to The Late Show to begin with: his own reputation. His own apparent desire to be seen and known not just as Anthony Scaramucci, fired communications director for an embattled White House, but also as “the Mooch”: whimsical, delightful, slick of suit and even slicker of words. A media event unto himself. A distracting laugh.
At the end of the interview, Scaramucci brought out the Bowie knife he had enclosed in a glass case for the occasion. “I got gifts for Stephen, okay?” he said, pulling the sunglasses he had also brought as a prop out of his jacket pocket. “After he hit me so hard for three weeks, he thought I was gonna stab him with that,” he explained to the audience, of the gift. “That’s why it’s in the case, the hermetically sealed case.”
The joke landed with a thud. Scaramucci had joined Colbert as an act of brand rehabilitation; his appearance, however, ended up accomplishing something very different. It made Scaramucci into a metaphor—for glibness, for myopia, for a way of being in the world that looks on hatred and violence and isn’t sure what to do but make light of it all. I’m not allowed to joke anymore, Scaramucci had told Colbert, at the outset of his interview. I’ve learned that. The line would have been more convincing if it hadn’t been for the one that had preceded it: “I’m kidding!” Scaramucci had said, after telling Colbert that the interview would be off the record. “I’m kidding.”


At this point, seven months into the Trump presidency, late-night hosts have gotten a thorough grounding in reacting to things that would have been unimaginable a year or so ago. Seth Meyers, who made a promise the day after the election that he’d “be watching” closely for the next four years, has excoriated the 45th president on an almost nightly basis, interrogating his advisers and mocking Trump’s reportedly short attention span by presenting foreign-policy briefings in limerick form.
The exact role political entertainers should play has been up for debate long before Jon Stewart gave up his Comedy Central perch at The Daily Show, and the lines have only blurred further in the Trump era. Are Meyers and his ilk comedians? Journalists? The new public intellectuals? But on Monday night, Meyers and his NBC stablemate Jimmy Fallon seemed to redefine themselves as something different again: arbiters of a national moral compass that sometimes feels increasingly skewed. In two powerful, impassioned monologues, the hosts took pains to denounce white supremacy and racism in a way that both argued the president had delegitimized himself by failing to do.
Waiting for the Conservative Jon Stewart
For Fallon, who was widely critiqued in September for ruffling Trump’s hair on his show rather than addressing any substantive political issues, the moment was uncharacteristically serious, and sad. “Even though The Tonight Show isn’t a political show, it’s my responsibility to stand up against intolerance and extremism as a human being,” he said. Watching what happened in Charlottesville over the weekend, Fallon explained, and seeing “Nazi flags and torches and white supremacists … I was sick to my stomach.” Speaking of his daughters, who are 2 and 4, he wondered, “How can I explain to them that there’s so much hatred in this world?” At times he seemed close to tears, particularly when he praised Heather Heyer, the 32-year-old protester who was killed when she was hit by a car allegedly driven into a crowd by a white supremacist.
It was an act Meyers later described as a “terror attack on American soil … a horrifying incident that left most of the country stunned.” And yet, he said, rather than denounce the hatred that had motivated it, the president blamed the “many sides” participating in the protests. “If that choice of words made you feel sick to your stomach,” Meyers said, “the good news is you’re a normal and decent person. The jury’s still out on the president.”
It was an extraordinary denunciation of a sitting president on network television, not for being corrupt, or inept, or dishonest, but for being fundamentally morally flawed. “The leader of our country is called the president because he’s supposed to preside over our society,” Meyers said. “His job is to lead, to cajole, to scold, to correct our path, to lift up what is good about us, and to absolutely and unequivocally and immediately condemn what is evil in us. And if he does not do that, if he does not preside over our society, then he is not a president.”
Fallon, who has perhaps struggled more than some of his politically oriented peers at a moment when politics are unavoidable, found a similar gear, although he was less outraged and more dismayed. His kids, he said, who play joyfully with other kids of all races, “need people to look up to … they need parents and teachers, and they need leaders who appeal to the best in us.” President Trump, he implied, was simply failing them in that regard. The fact that it took the president two days to openly denounce white supremacy, he said, “is shameful.”
And yet, Fallon and Meyers both argued, it isn’t just kids who need people to look up to. It’s the whole country. “We all need to stand against what is wrong, acknowledge that racism exists, and stand up for what is right and civil and kind,” Fallon said. “And to show the next generation that we haven’t forgotten how hard people have fought for human rights. We cannot do this. We can’t go backward.” The message was that President Trump, who fanned the flames of racism when he encouraged the perception that the first black president wasn’t American, was dragging the entire country down. Meyers reminded viewers that Trump was often “written off as a clown” during the 2016 campaign, but that now his impact on the country was becoming clearer. “Now,” Meyers said, “white supremacists and American Nazis are visible and energetic and demonstrative in a way we’ve not seen in our lifetimes.”
By affirming to their viewers that the president is morally bankrupt, the two NBC comedians took a big gamble. On the one hand, it’s easy (and makes for good PR) to publicly denounce racism and bigotry. On the other, both entertainers risk alienating the 34 percent of the population that approves of Trump’s presidency. But the point they seemed to make was that it didn’t matter—that in this specific moment, there are simple choices everyone has to make between doing what’s right and doing what’s easy. The president, both implied, has always done the latter, and thus his leadership isn’t a model. But who can step into the void? It’s a role that, not too long ago, no one would have expected comedians to play. And yet here were two Saturday Night Live alums, taking advantage of their sizable public platforms to remind Americans to reject “evil” and instead to seek out the better angels of their nature.


We live in an era of cinema that’s often too reliant on sequels, on an endless churn of the same, formulaic stories pumped out year after year. But one franchise seems immune to the diminishing returns of multiple follow-ups: The Trip, a series of movies now on its third entry about two middle-aged British men eating very expensive dinners together. The Trip sticks to a rigid format, explores the unchanging dynamic between the performers Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon (both playing semi-fictionalized versions of themselves), and has featured them doing extended dueling impressions of Michael Caine at each other in every film.
Somehow, The Trip to Spain, which opened in theaters Friday, might be the funniest movie yet in this curious little franchise, which marries improvised conversations with high-end food porn and Coogan’s blunt, particularly self-loathing brand of humor. The installments barely count as films at all—they’re cut-down versions of a sporadic, six-episodes-per-season television series that airs in the UK. But the director Michael Winterbottom, a movie veteran who enjoys blurring the lines between fiction and reality, makes each entry feel like a complete, satisfying narrative, even giving The Trip to Spain an absurd twist ending that pokes fun at the idea of producing another edition one day.
How Steve Coogan Found the Laughs in 'Philomena'
The rapport between Coogan and Brydon, longtime collaborators who also worked together on Winterbottom’s fourth-wall-breaking 2005 film Tristram Shandy: A Cock and Bull Story, holds fast in The Trip to Spain. Coogan is the international icon, a British comedy legend who has transcended the cult status TV shows like I’m Alan Partridge afforded him in the 1990s and become a major movie star. Or so he thinks—in each Trip, Coogan’s ego exceeds his actual celebrity, and he’s beset by annoying calls from his agents and managers haggling with him over future projects, reminding him that he’s mostly a pop-culture footnote in the United States.
Brydon, meanwhile, is far more settled in his life as a popular UK comedian, self-aware about his diminished stature compared to Coogan but charmingly content all the same. A master impressionist whose work as a stand-up, sitcom creator, and character actor has sustained him in Britain for some 25 years, Brydon frequently succeeds at inadvertently needling Coogan and bursting his bubble of self-importance, especially as they discuss the local cuisines and cultures of whichever region they’re traveling through.
In The Trip to Spain, Coogan is slightly more relaxed than in previous entries, seemingly buoyed by the success of his 2013 drama Philomena, which he starred in and co-wrote, and which netted him two Oscar nominations. His personal life in the movie remains chaotic, as he’s embroiled in an affair with a married actress (the films also feature fictionalized versions of Coogan’s son, and Brydon’s wife and children), but there’s a tinge of calm melancholy to his outlook. Both he and Brydon are now over the age of 50 and less interested in the melodrama of their younger years.
Watching Coogan and Brydon bounce off each other in the Trip films is the simplest of pleasures. The pair have a perfect combination of familiarity and playful desire for one-upmanship. Each joke premise suggested over dinner has to be plumbed to exhaustion; each celebrity impression, particularly their fascination with Caine, becomes a ridiculous joust, with the duo finding new nuances and physical details in their impersonations.
Brydon, in the past, has always come out on top in this regard, since Coogan’s comic skills rely on original characters and improvisation. But in The Trip to Spain, it’s clear that Coogan has been working hard behind the scenes: For the first time I genuinely thought he got the better of Brydon on a number of occasions. Aside from their little performances, Coogan and Brydon spend most of their time reflecting on their youth and trying to outdo each other’s historical knowledge of whatever town they’re in, with Coogan holding particular romantic, literary delusions of his life on the road (The Trip to Spain even has the pair dress up as Don Quixote and Sancho Panza at one point).
It’d be fair to say this all sounds insufferable—being trapped at the table with two comedians constantly trying to make the other laugh. But Coogan, Brydon, and Winterbottom have found the right way to balance out the silliness with introspection. The genius of Coogan’s career lies in his willingness to embrace the darker side of his personality. In the Trip films he’s not afraid to mock himself as an embittered prima donna and then let the audience see him struggle, behind the scenes, to get his next project off the ground. Brydon remains the ideal foil for Coogan and his wild mood swings, a sidekick whose happiness with his place in life consistently irritates his pal, to hilarious effect.
The films in this franchise are also just wonderful to look at, each taking in the rolling countryside of their settings (Northern England, Italy, and Spain) and the haute cuisine they eat along the way (the extended TV version is even heavier on the food porn). The Trip to Spain is, for the most part, a gentle, relaxing delight, with just enough uproarious conversation and a touch of regret. In other words, it’s a perfect piece of British comedy comfort food.


The seven helium-filled white globes that hover, swarm, and form kaleidoscopic patterns above visitors to London’s Roundhouse are neither friend nor foe—they’re inanimate drones programmed by an algorithm to move, and to respond in turn to the various movements of people below them. And yet their behavior is familiarly, unsettlingly alive. They seem curious at some points, breaking away from their pack to investigate individuals on the ground. They’re menacing at others, gliding gracefully into imposing structures overhead. They’re sometimes clumsy, colliding with each other and veering awkwardly upward. And they’re mesmerizing, evoking entities as disparate as birds and bacteria in the ways they gently dance and dip under the Roundhouse’s domed ceiling.
The balloon-drones are Zoological, a flock of “autonomous, flying spheres” created for the installation +/- Human by the studio Random International, the artists best known for Rain Room. That work, which debuted at London’s Barbican in 2012, helped usher in a new age of Instagram-friendly immersive artworks, attracting day-long lines when it moved to New York’s Museum of Modern Art prior to a 15-month stint at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. But where Rain Room allowed visitors to feel omnipotent, walking freely through a room of falling water without getting wet, Zoological encourages a sense of vulnerability. The ever-shifting constellations overhead are beautiful and unsettling: They catalog and respond to human behavior. This is an artwork that you observe while aware that it’s observing you right back.
Art for Instagram’s Sake
+/- Human includes dance performances choreographed by Wayne McGregor, devised to provoke and create new patterns of movement as the dancers and the spheres interact. During the day, visitors can simply enter the Roundhouse’s space and move around underneath Zoological, which is accompanied by original music composed by Warp Records’s Mark Pritchard. The score is pivotal, offering ethereal layers of electronic harmonies, and then jarring, discordant sounds of exaggerated humming or screeching. At times the room feels like a scene from Denis Villeneuve’s Arrival; at others like a particularly traumatic episode of Black Mirror. The drones are benign, staying out of arm’s reach, but their behavior—both pre-programmed and responsive—is impossible to predict.
Zoological, as a work, seems intended to play on subconscious anxieties about everything from driverless cars to alien invasions to mutating pathogens. The ways in which the spheres rise and fall around each other mimic the ways birds fly, and bugs swarm, and computers generate graphics that move to music. It’s eerily familiar, but inhuman. Random International describes the work as “an amplified and physical manifestation of our lived experience in a world increasingly run by algorithms,”  and its rendering of our uncertain, symbiotic, increasingly dependent relationship with machines and code captures the flux of an era in which technology is evolving faster than our ability to devise ethical frameworks for it. The spheres in Zoological are harmless, but for how long?
It’s perhaps less instantly gratifying and joyful than Rain Room, but much more thought-provoking. It’s also of a piece with other recent works of art and entertainment that try to wrestle with how drones are changing the nature of warfare or how technology will ruin humanity if we’re not perpetually vigilant. It’s a theme Random International has considered over and over, in a series of “Swarm Studies” that examine and mimic collective behavior, and in works that reflect the human form in motion as pinpricks of light. Zoological, fascinating and occasionally alarming, encourages engagement, but the underlying note is one of caution.


Scan today’s headlines and climate change in the Anthropocene might appear horrifyingly novel: Manmade monstrosities like the Great Pacific Garbage Patch and “dead zones” seem like problems unique to the contemporary era. The human response that such devastation demands, however, may sound familiar to students of history.
The British author Paul Kingsnorth, for one, knows that humans have experienced the end of the world, or at least, of their world, before. As he writes in an appendix to his 2014 novel The Wake: “The Norman invasion and occupation of England was probably the most catastrophic single event in this nation’s history. It brought slaughter, famine, scorched-earth warfare, slavery, and widespread land confiscation.” The unprecedented ferocity of the invasion, he explains, brought about an almost complete break with the pre-Norman past. In short order, an entire world vanished. The Wake, which was longlisted for the Man Booker Prize and is the first volume of a planned trilogy, is set against this tumultuous historical backdrop—it tells an audacious story of how humans have always found ways to survive an apocalypse.
Climate Fiction: Can Books Save the Planet?
Now, Kingsnorth, a former climate-science journalist turned novelist who has long explored the interplay between society and environmental collapse, has a new installment, Beast, that follows a similar theme: It’s the present-day tale of a man searching for alternatives to the superficial consumer culture responsible for ecological degradation. Leaving his family and job behind, the protagonist Edward Buckmaster instead spends his time tracking a mysterious black beast, emitting a kind of optimistic fatalism along the way. In both works, tremendous loss is balanced by a belief that humans are at least as tenacious as catastrophe is relentless. And in both works, Kingsnorth makes clear, ruin, as well as hope, are perpetually present and perpetually incomplete.
***
When it was first published, The Wake garnered attention for its use of a fabricated language, a charmingly creative hybrid between Old English and contemporary conversational British English. Its plot is somewhat more straightforward than a glance at the text might suggest: A tenacious, wealthy, Anglo-Saxon landowner named Buccmaster of Holland has everything taken from him by the invading Normans: children killed amid fighting, wife murdered and burned along with his home, lands despoiled. With his old life destroyed, he takes to the woods, becoming something of a dark, irascible, half-insane Robin Hood. As he travels through what was once England, the scope of the devastation and loss becomes almost more than he can bear.
What this thumbnail sketch of action fails to convey is the beauty and force of the novel’s invented language. In one passage, Buccmaster pauses near a village called Bacstune and looks at an oak tree, rubbing his hands along its trunk:
i was locan at an ac treow and i put my hand on its great stocc … it had seemed to me that this treow was anglisc as the ground it is frown from anglisc as we who is grown also from that ground. but if the frenc cums and tacs this land and gifs these treows sum frenc name they will not be the same treows no more.
If it seems strange at first, after reading a few pages, Kingsnorth’s language coalesces into meaningful narrative. Buccmaster realizes that the tree will come to be renamed something else by the French invaders, and the new name will fundamentally change what the tree is. He draws a parallel between English trees and English people, insinuating that both would be irreparably changed by the invasion. Changed, and yet, as Kingsnorth’s operative logic would have it, still surviving in altered form.
Kingsnorth invented this hybrid “shadow tongue” (his term) for the novel; in an appendix, he explains that he did so not only because he doesn’t personally care for historical fiction written in contemporary idiom, but also because “The early English did not see the world as we do, and their language reflects this … I wanted to be able to convey … the sheer alienness of Old England.” As a reader, you’ll feel the shock of the uncanny, but likely also a sense of recognition, of a dead language remixed with something like Twitter grammar. In striking this delicate balance, Kingsnorth shakes you out of complacency. It’s Brecht’s Verfremdungseffekt in reverse, with the unfamiliar being made just approachable enough to keep you interested. The effect is jarring and strange, like a half-remembered dream with lingering emotional residue.
Beast, Kingsnorth’s new novel, isn’t written in a shadow tongue. But the voice that the author gives his protagonist Edward Buckmaster is nonetheless possessed by a frenetic, searching energy:
From the east I came, to this high place, to be broken, to be torn apart, beaten, cut into pieces. I came here to measure myself against the great emptiness. I came here to touch the void, to leap naked into it with the shards of what I was falling around me, to have the void clean me of the smallness that I swam in.
Again, much of the power and significance of the story is bound up in the language itself. And, though separated by a thousand years of history and tumult, the potentially related Buckmaster and Buccmaster appear to be echoing the same story—one of loss, degradation, and a burning hunger for things to be other than as they are.
Making his way through Earth’s environmental and cultural decline (the “smallness” that he “swam in”), Buckmaster, it’s clear, longs for a wild transformation. He isn’t so much abandoning the world to hide out in the moors, as reclaiming (some might say melodramatically) a depth and dignity that are being destroyed by the inane demands of a throwaway culture. Buckmaster wants to trade in online shopping for crop cultivation, mall walking for hunting. Like Buccmaster, he wants back what was taken from him, the full scope of his identity as a human being: “Everything led up to me and everything I was would lead beyond me there was this great chain and I was a link in it. The past and the future they were nothing they came together and parted again.” Over the course of the novel, Buckmaster’s almost mystical connection to the way that his ancestors lived seems to be simultaneously a source of strength and a precious resource that he must actively tend to.
The prose in Beast is taut, bare. There is no specific mention of names of individuals or places, only general terms like “the city” and “people.” The vagueness is a stylistic choice, but it also serves Kingsnorth’s philosophical purposes. By keeping the specifics of our dying world at arm’s length, his prose winnows down textual reality to approximate essentials. He doesn’t just show us a man surviving, he uses language to illustrate how humans might define survival in the first place.
***
Kingsnorth has spent a lot of his life thinking about how to keep people interested in climate change, a subject so vast and so intimate that it defies comprehension even as it shapes our lives. And in 2008 he had a revelation: The environmental apocalypse was inescapable. As he explains in a Boston Review interview: “When I worked at The Independent in 1995, I was obsessed with climate change, but nobody on that newspaper was interested and nothing on it ever got published. I remember thinking, ‘If only we could get climate change on to the front page, things would really change.’ Well, now it is on the front pages very often, and everybody knows about it, and the politicians and business leaders all know about it, and yet nothing’s changed.”
If half of Kingsnorth’s perspective is shaped by the inevitability of chaos, then the other half is formed by his faith in humans being able to live through that same chaos. What keeps his perspective from being completely dystopian is his belief in people being able to, at least individually, alter their lives to adjust to even the most dramatic changes. Kingsnorth, for one, went “back to the land,” trying his hand at subsistence farming with his family on a plot of ground in Ireland. He also founded the Dark Mountain Project, a collective of artists and thinkers who share Kingsnorth’s assumptions about pending environmental (and, thus, political and economic) collapse. And he began writing novels.
Ultimately, it’s Kingsnorth’s faith in the ingenuity of the human spirit that make his ideas—spelled out compellingly in his work—as inspiring as they are realistic. Worlds have ended, in a sense, before. The plague decimated cities in 17th-century England. Academics still debate whether the staggering number of indigenous American deaths post-European colonization should be called a “genocide” or a “holocaust.” Entire generations were lost in world wars and to the Spanish flu. With these colossal changes in mind, Kingsnorth’s writing can be taken as a hopeful message from collective human history about persisting amid a semi-permanent state of catastrophe.
It’s significant that Beast begins with the sensation of a cool river and ends in media res with Buckmaster reporting that he sees “a scrap of tarpaulin an upturned tub a c.” The novel, its unique prose raw with austere energy, demands close observation. It opens the reader’s eyes to impending destruction while simultaneously promising that survival is possible. Inevitable, even. Perhaps the specifics of that survival await a more nuanced articulation, but, for now, what Beast proffers is access to the minds and emotional lives of characters who endure.


Every week for the seventh season of Game of Thrones, three Atlantic staffers will discuss new episodes of the HBO drama. Because no screeners were made available to critics in advance this year, we’ll be posting our thoughts in installments.
David Sims: This late in its run, Game of Thrones is mostly about tyrants, and I’m glad it’s aware of that. There are plentiful types of tyranny for the Westerosi to choose from, of course. There’s the conniving elitism of Cersei Lannister, still convinced of her house’s utmost superiority and willing to rule over whatever kingdom she can get, even if she has to blow everyone up in the process. There’s the “liberation” offered by Daenerys, who claims to offer freedom from oppressive rulers but really is presenting a more binary choice: Join her, or die. Finally, to the north, there’s the impassive force of the Night King, who offers only the apocalypse, something more than a few bedraggled citizens of Westeros might welcome at this point.
It would be too easy for this show to pitch Daenerys’s efforts at conquest as a battle between good and evil. That’s never been a narrative pursuit in George R. R. Martin’s books, and it was entirely absent from the fiery ass-kicking her Dothraki/dragon combo delivered to Jaime’s forces last episode. There are people to root for, and people to fear, on both sides, and the viewer’s sympathies lie more with Tyrion, aghast at the visceral carnage. “Eastwatch” picked up right in the aftermath of Daenerys’s assault on the Lannister loot train, as the mother of dragons stuck firmly to her brand and offered the beleaguered troops a supposed “choice”: Bend the knee, or get roasted alive. They all bent the knee, of course, except for the flinty Randyll Tarly and his son, Dickon (or was it Abercrombie?), who stood against her foreign hordes and were quickly barbecued alive.
There was nothing triumphant about the scene. Randyll has never been a particularly sympathetic character, and Tyrion wisely pointed out his betrayal of the Tyrell memory in defecting to Cersei, but there was still a noble ring to his comeback: “There are no easy choices anymore,” he sighed. Too true, but to Daenerys, the choice she offers is the easiest of all—why would anyone pick death over the freedom she offers? Especially as it’s spoken in vaguely populist terms like “I’m not here to murder” and something about stopping “the wheel that has rolled over rich and poor.”
It’s a problem that has plagued Daenerys since her days liberating Slaver’s Bay: the concept that her noble ideals, backed up with displays of strength (i.e., dragonfire and conquest), will be enough to win hearts and minds. Instead, as Tyrion and Varys know, all you end up with are endless displays of strength, which can quickly make you a Mad King (or Queen). As Game of Thrones winds to a close, they (and others) are looking to break the endless chain of tyranny, and by gum, they may just have found the way to do it, and it involves a boat filled with stinky, fermented crab.
Okay, it’s more complicated than that, but I dare you to argue with the notion that Davos was the MVP of this episode, and perhaps the show as a whole, smuggling Tyrion into King’s Landing to advance some secret diplomacy, humanely rescuing Gendry in the process, and doing a whole five-minute stand-up set about how crab is an aphrodisiac in the middle there. Crustacean jokes aside, Davos’s involvement in Daenerys’s new scheme (to present a White Walker, or one of its wights, to Cersei as an example of the looming threat in the north) felt particularly crucial to the bigger thematic stuff I’m wrestling with here, in the show’s endgame.
Davos is a loyal soldier, and his loyalty only ended up costing him his son’s life (as he reminded Tyrion), the men around him, and eventually, his liege lord Stannis Baratheon. His loyalty to Daenerys is different and more complicated, the same kind of loyalty Tyrion, and Varys, and even doe-eyed Jorah have for her: They see the chance for something different in her, even if she often behaves just as badly as the rulers they served in the past. It’s something Jon recognizes, too (and, in turn, something Daenerys recognizes in him), and that’s why this mission to retrieve a White Walker makes a mad sort of sense, as hair-raisingly dangerous as it might be. That Daenerys would consider such a scheme, rather than going around burning more castles and scoring more easy victories, is the glimmer of real hope that everyone recognizes beyond the tyranny.
Cersei has no such glimmer, now planning to publicly proclaim her love for Jaime (and give birth to their fourth child together). The Night King still advances silently, promising only destruction. “Eastwatch” was mostly another set-up episode, getting the pieces in place for Jon’s raid beyond the wall with a colorful cast of bandits (including Tormund, the Hound, Beric, and a hammer-wielding Gendry) next week. It had plenty of little tidbits to dig into, most frustrating of them all being Littlefinger’s continued machinations in Winterfell and Sam’s complete inability to listen to Gilly dropping major plot points about the legitimacy of Jon’s birth. But it was encouraging, even exciting, in how it drew on years of characterization, on seasons of world-building, to create momentum and context for its next major battle. Lenika, are you as stirred to the cause as I am? Or is Daenerys’s willingness to par-boil her enemies too fatal a flaw?
Lenika Cruz: I usually find Dany a more reasonable would-be conquerer than many show-watchers do—her repeated citations of her claim to the throne don’t strike me as unhinged, mainly because the show is careful to balance her fire-and-bloodthirsty side with more coolheaded decisions. But the start of this episode was disturbing and gave me the strongest Mad Queen vibes I’ve felt from Daenerys this season. Post-Dracarys justifications to Jon aside, her executions of Randyll and Dickon Tarly were chilling (not literally, obviously)—less because of the fact that they were killed and more because of the manner in which it happened. Tyrion’s clear desperation, and Dany’s stoic dismissal of his pleas, combined with the sight of Drogon as her very own, castle-sized Queen's Justice roaring at bloodied prisoners of war, all but invalidated her “let's make the world a better place together” pitch. Papa Aerys would have been proud. (It helped that this was the most frightening Drogon has ever been from an effects-standpoint: That screech! Those scales! Those teeth! That lumbering, I’m-gonna-eat-you gait!)
The father-son conflagration accomplished a few other things this episode: It made Jon’s fearless approach of Drogon seem mystically fated, an impression only deepened by Gilly’s hint that Lord Snow might, after all, be the true-born son of a Targaryen. It got Varys to stress-drink and meditate on his complicity in the acts of violence his masters have carried out. And it all but brought House Tarly to an end (as a brother of the Night's Watch, Sam is forbidden from inheriting or passing on anything). “You are the future of your house,” Tyrion told Dickon when he stepped forward to die next to his father. “This war has already wiped one great house from the world. Don’t let it happen again.” Not only was Dickon not moved, but Tyrion was also wrong on his second point. The return of Gendry in “Eastwatch,” after three and a half seasons of “still rowing” jokes, wasn’t a shock, but it’s telling that his reappearance came in an episode even more preoccupied with the subject of lineage and family survival than usual.
In addition to the sly reference to Rhaegar Targaryen's annulment of his marriage to Elia Martell—which, I think, positions Jon before Dany in the line of succession, which we all know matters a great deal in Westeros these days—Game of Thrones brought back the last known heir to House Baratheon. (I had been irked that the show hadn’t changed the stag sigil on King's Landing in the show intro to a Lannister lion at the start of Season 7. I'm still convinced it's just an oversight, but perhaps there's a sneakier reason for keeping the Baratheon sigil in place now that Gendry's back.) Either way, David Benioff and D.B. Weiss are giving us a bunch of last-hope, only children carrying on some noble cause after being dismissed by their family—Samwell Tarly (disowned his dad), Jorah Mormont (same), Gendry (same), Daenerys (exploited by her garbage brother Viserys), Jon Snow (who, by virtue of his bastard-dom, could never be a real Stark; he was also murdered by his Night’s Watch brothers).
Game of Thrones enjoys poking at the arbitrary conventions involved in maintaining the institution of family; it also suggests the strength of blood depends entirely on how seriously the members of a given clan take that bond. The Lannisters take family most seriously of all the houses left on the show. From the earliest hours of Season 1, Jaime and Cersei were dripping with scorn for “anyone who isn't us,” a refrain that endures today. I said a few weeks ago that I was concerned that Cersei would be a deflated, less interesting version of herself with her children gone. Now, it turns out that she is pregnant with another child by her brother, and the Lannister name and self-obsession may live on after all. (Though, I wouldn’t put it past Cersei to lie about something like this to Jaime, setting up her chat with Qyburn for maximum believability.) Meanwhile, Daenerys made it a point yet again of calling her dragons her “children” in this episode, a reminder that even she sees herself as part of an indivisible, unquestionable unit.
Look up north for a contrast. We noted last week how peculiar and cold the Stark family reunion was. I’m not saying the Starks don’t care about each other, but the individual identities of the members of their family have been destabilized to the point where mere relation doesn’t seem to be enough to ensure feelings of loyalty. Bran and Arya and Sansa have all become different people: the Three-Eyed Raven, No One, and Lady Stark (f.k.a Lady Bolton, f.k.a. wife of Tyrion Lannister). We saw this week the rapid erosion of whatever trust may have existed between Sansa and Arya after so many years apart. Sansa craves power, something she can only really possess with Jon out of the way. Arya, still devoted to Jon, suspects Sansa’s good intentions aren’t enough to keep her from wanting to rule Winterfell, a belief likely fueled by Arya’s latent resentment for her older sister. And ready to exploit this all is Littlefinger, who proved that for all of Arya’s expert shadow-lurking, he's still the lurkiest shadow-lurker around. (In case you didn't get to pause that shot of the scroll Arya found, it looks like the letter Sansa wrote to Robb asking him to swear fealty to Joffrey.)
In all, this was a solid hour—it was plenty entertaining (as you noted, David, in large part thanks to the ever-fantastic Onion Knight) and the plot sped forward yet again, despite the absence of a couple of storylines (the Greyjoys, the Unsullied). We got some impressive Drogon shots. We got good ole Gendry back. Jorah finally got his hug from Daenerys. Tyrion and Jaime had a reunion. But my credulity continues to be strained in ways I’m trying not to overthink. Like: Is Drogon hurt at all? How did Jaime and Bronn get away from the loot train attack so easily? How did Jaime and Tyrion meet so easily in King’s Landing, with Tyrion not even bothering to toss so much as a scarf on his head for a disguise? Why doesn’t the plan to drag a lone wight before Cersei come under a little more scrutiny? Why does it immediately seem like a good enough idea for an entire band of fighters to volunteer to wander straight into the path of the Army of the Dead in hopes of snagging one ice zombie? How does one even transport an ice zombie?
I’m still very, very excited for the Big Battle That Was Promised next week. It will likely be spectacular, and pivotal, and the most big-picture-y fight yet, since the fate of the entire continent, not just one army or house, depends on it. For all this episode's fixation on protecting and ending bloodlines, and on family name-checking (even Gendry and Jon trust each other almost instantly because of who their fathers were), more important was how “Eastwatch” coaxed the characters to think less tribally, for once. Even Cersei seemed willing to consider a collaboration with Dany, however manipulative her motives. Jon crucially allowed Beric Dondarrion, Thoros of Myr, and the Hound out from their cells, declaring that the only side they should care about belonging to is that of the “breathing.”
That the entire breathing population of Westeros could ever truly come to see themselves as a single family of sorts is still a remote possibility to me. But I’m intrigued that Game of Thrones is sincerely trying to explore that route in the first place. Megan, do you think Daenerys was wise to sanction this seemingly doomed mission north of the Wall? Personally, I’m comforted knowing that the crew involves two guys who were raised from the dead, plus a guy with resurrection abilities. But given the very sweet hi-and-bye that Jorah received this episode, I wouldn’t be shocked if the knight followed in his father’s footsteps next week…
Megan Garber: Sigh, I agree about Jorah. But ironically, if he meets his end in the next episode—a death not by stone but by ice—it would be one of the least existentially tragic deaths the show has portrayed so far. In “Eastwatch,” Jorah got what he’s been wanting for so long: reconciliation with Dany. That element of his story, which is in a lot of ways the element of his story, was given a happy ending. Which is a rare thing in Game of Thrones’s world: So few of the people in this place end their stories having gotten what they want. So few die fulfilled. That’s one of the things that makes watching this show—in addition to the, uh, torture and gore and general bleakness of life in Westeros and beyond—so reliably depressing: There is a pervasive sadness to the proceedings here. On top of everything else, this is a land of dead dreams.
But! (Slightly) more optimistically! As to your Dany question, Lenika, I’m on board (heh) with the mission. And not just because of the people who are engaging in it, but also simply because it is happening in the first place. One of the things Game of Thrones has been so heavy-handedly hinting at this season—beyond the idea that Jaime might betray Cersei and that Jon Snow’s true parentage would be revealed and in due course Change Everything™—is that, in a show about dragon-fire and ice zombies and all the rest, the most destructive thing of all, in the end, might be classic human obstinance. Would humans being human be the death of humanity? Would people’s stubbornness and selfishness and willful ignorance prevent them, in the end, from resisting the encroachments of the Night King?
One of the things I’ve appreciated about the show, pervasive existential sadness notwithstanding, is how methodically—but also how artfully—it has infused those questions into its storyline. From the start, it has been interested in the tangle of information that is true and information that is manipulated—in belief that is justified and belief that is not. And Jon Snow, in particular, has been a nexus of a lot of that—especially when it comes to the White Walkers. The show has been building up to the idea that maybe people simply won’t believe Jon and the others who talk about the threat (because believing them, to be fair to those people, first requires believing in dormant ice-zombies who are under the leadership of a sentient and strategic ice-king and also coming to Kill Them All). Maybe people will be too constrained by their own complacency to accept the idea of impending apocalypse. Or maybe: They will simply take too long to realize the danger they’re in.
People have compared the White Walker plot in Games of Thrones’s world to climate change in our own, and I think, in general, that’s a really fair comparison to make: The White Walkers, too, are a slow-moving menace. Battling them requires first that people expand their views of the world to accommodate a new and weird reality. In Game of Thrones’s universe, the epic and climactic battle between the forces of winter and the forces of life could end up being, the show has hinted, less a classic war and more an easy conquest. The White Walkers could win by default. They could win simply because they have at their disposal that most powerful of things: weaponized human ignorance.
If you buy that reading of the situation, you could also read a lot of Season 7 so far as an exploration of the small, human impediments to solving an existential crisis: This has been a season that has been, in addition to everything else, a really detailed portrayal of the dynamics between belief and disbelief. Jon Snow has been doing everything he can think of to convince people that 1) winter is coming, like rightnowaswespeak, and 2) winter in this case involves an army of nearly indestructible ice-corpses—some of whom may well include zombie versions of people’s own relatives—coming to kill everyone and everything they know. Jon Snow has been Al Gore, basically: heard by some, mocked by others. There are lots of White Walker deniers in Westeros.
I didn’t like “Eastwatch” as much as you guys did—I found it a little clunky, from the beginning (the winky aftermath of Jaime’s-deus-ex-machina, Jon’s emo dragon-petting) on down—but I did appreciate how the episode explored belief itself as a weapon in the war against the Night King and his forces. Archmaester Marwyn, debating Sam about whether the Citadel should believe Jon’s stories. The plan to kill a wight and bring it back to the south as physical—undeniable—evidence of the Night King’s capabilities: a Westerosi version of Al Gore’s slide decks. So I’m all about that mission, and in general all about that little-rowboat-that-could and its ragtag occupants. After all—to paraphrase another epic that explores the consequences of belief and its discontents—they could be humanity’s only hope.


When Atypical was announced last October, the Netflix show’s mission was defined as a question: What does it mean to be normal? Sam (Keir Gilchrist), Atypical’s primary character, is a high-school senior who also has autism, and most of the storylines in the first eight episodes (released on Friday) revolve around “normal” teenage experiences—his efforts to get a girlfriend, his interactions with the jerky popular kids, and his desire underneath it all to fit in, and to feel less alone. And yet the show’s most consistent source of humor comes from how abnormal Sam is. How he inadvertently screams obscenities at bewildered strangers, and blurts out pickup lines he’s downloaded from the internet, and accidentally punches a girl mid-hookup because he can’t stand the way she’s touching him.
Atypical, created by Robia Rashid (The Goldbergs, How I Met Your Mother) and Seth Gordon (also The Goldbergs, as well as the recent Baywatch movie), carries a heavy burden, just because there are so few depictions of people on the spectrum in television, let alone half-hour comedies that place autism front and center. The show is obviously filled with compassion for Sam and tries hard to give the audience some sense of what his everyday experiences are like—demonstrating how clothes with too many zippers and textures overwhelm his senses by distorting sounds and visuals for viewers. But it also relies on him as a punchline, only to turn around and assail other characters who do the exact same thing.
Friends From College Is a Tragedy of Arrested Development
Which is a shame, because in its finest moments Atypical is warmhearted, sincere, funny, and shrewd. It’s hard to tell whether its inconsistency is due to a blurry conception of what tone it should strike, or whether producers simply wanted to appeal to as broad a swathe of potential viewers as possible—the show skews so wildly from slapstick to gritty drama to teen soap to family sitcom that it should come with Dramamine. There’s Sam, played sensitively by Gilchrist (United States of Tara), with his obsession with penguins and all things Antarctic, and his teenage hormones. His sister, Casey (the fantastic Brigette Lundy-Paine), is both irreverent and extremely protective when it comes to her brother. “My sister doesn’t let anyone beat me up,” Sam explains in the first episode. “Except herself.”
The most bewildering aspect of the show is Sam’s mom, Elsa (Jennifer Jason Leigh), whose storyline seems to belong to a completely different drama. Leigh is an immensely talented actress but she seems totally miscast and underserved by the fact that Elsa is very thinly drawn (it doesn’t emerge until more than halfway through the series that she has a job as a hairdresser). Perhaps this is deliberate—to emphasize how often caregivers end up primarily defined by that role—but it doesn’t explain a baffling plotline that threads through all eight episodes and feels better suited to a kitchen-sink tragedy than the whimsical-but-earnest show Atypical strives to be. Similarly out of place is Zahid (Nik Dodani), Sam’s best friend, a dweeby and foul-mouthed lothario right out of a Judd Apatow comedy. And Sam’s therapist, Julia (Amy Okuda) starts the show as an audience surrogate for him to talk directly to, but around the seventh episode weirdly becomes a primary character.
As Sam’s dad, Doug, Michael Rapaport is sweetly and believably awkward—sidelined by his wife’s dedication to Sam but newly able to bond with his son over girl talk and trips to the aquarium. It’s at moments like these that the show finds its footing, communicating both how difficult and how special it is to be Sam, and to be in his family. Casey, a talented athlete, is consistently sidelined by her parents because Sam’s needs are more of a priority. And yet her relationship with him is charming—she accepts who he is, she doesn’t treat him with kid gloves, but she takes fierce care not to let anyone else manipulate or stereotype him.
It’s a dynamic the show could have benefited by emulating. A handful of writers with first- or second-hand experience of autism have noted that the show veers between pandering to Sam and treating him as comic relief. Rashid told The Hollywood Reporter she was inspired to write Atypical by her own personal experiences with a person on the spectrum, and that she hired a consultant and relied on feedback from others familiar with the disorder. And many of its scenes offer thoughtful insight into how Sam functions, portraying how his family “cases” restaurants before they visit them to make sure they’re Sam-friendly and replicating how uncomfortable his experiences can be. But its tonal issues often mean Sam has to be the funny one, whether intentionally or not.
Ultimately, Atypical wants people to be more sensitive to what people like Sam go through, and in that sense it succeeds. Gilchrist, who isn’t on the spectrum, is persuasive and thoughtful enough to avoid making Sam feel like a stereotype, even in more mawkish or predictable moments. And the show has some funny lines—Doug, visiting a fancy prep school, marvels how cashews “are a rich man’s nut.” But it’s hard not to long for a treatment of autism that’s as well-rounded and gutsy as ABC’s Speechless, whose creator, Scott Silveri, based it on his own experience with his brother’s disability and has spoken about the difficulty in finding the line between comedy and accuracy. Atypical’s first season proves how being entertaining and groundbreaking is a really tough balance to strike.


Underestimate Donald Glover at Your Own Peril
Lacey Rose | The Hollywood Reporter
“What distinguishes the 33-year-old—arguably the most prolific creator of his generation, racking up accolades as a writer, producer, director, rapper, stand-up and, now, movie star—is not only his unique voice and versatility, but also his desire, through his work, to get under people's skin and make them think, even if they aren't always comfortable doing so.”
The Toxic Drama on YA Twitter
Kat Rosenfield | Vulture
“Led by a group of influential authors who pull no punches when it comes to calling out their colleagues’ work, and amplified by tens of thousands of teen and young-adult followers for whom online activism is second nature, the campaigns to keep offensive books off shelves are a regular feature in a community that’s as passionate about social justice as it is about reading.”
‘I’ve Not Retired!’ Earl Cameron, Britain’s First Black Film Star, on Bond, Racism—and Turning 100
Xan Brooks | The Guardian
“If Cameron never quite achieved leading-man status, that was hardly his fault—there were other factors at play. One might describe him as the best black British actor of his generation, which is another way of saying that he stood alone at the top, waiting for others to climb up and join him.”
Sam Shepard and Confederate: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
Stargazing
Darrin McMahon | Literary Review
“In delineating these distinctions in the minds of contemporaries and developing celebrity as a category of analysis, [Antoine] Lilti shows how celebrity was fundamentally democratic, in that anyone could attain it, and also keenly adapted to modern individualism, in that it encouraged empathy with individual people, not social types. Yet all along, he emphasizes its fundamentally double-edged nature—for celebrities and their publics alike.”
The Story of the Duck Tales Theme, History’s Catchiest Single Minute of Music
Darryn King | Vanity Fair
“Psychological studies tell us that the more often we hear a song, the more likely we are to enjoy it. Nostalgia plays a part too. For many, the DuckTales theme is inextricably tied up with happy, potent memories of childhood, of after-school television-watching and put-off homework. But the DuckTales theme also happens to be a superb piece of music. It’s not only a high point of an underrated musical form, but an exquisite miniature pop classic in its own right.”
Queen of the Wood Nymphs
Amy LaRocca | The Cut
“Rodarte’s fashion shows have been unusual in form ... and the Mulleavys’ filmmaking style is purposefully disorienting. They use mirror reflections and other, subtle displacements to keep its lush, extreme beauty from becoming some sort of bucolic, soothing travelogue. It was going to take a specific kind of actress to thrive in that setting, and Theresa was always only ever going to be played by Kirsten Dunst, who knows a thing or two about disorientation.”
Did 1997 Contain the Worst Two Weeks in Music History?
Sean O’Neal and Clayton Purdom | The A.V. Club
“They contain so many signifiers of the myriad terrible directions music was taking at the time, alongside omens of the worst still yet to come. Even if OK Computer or Life After Death had arrived during those two weeks, I’m not sure it could overcome the portentous weight of all these oracles of a world about to be dominated by some of the stupidest music ever made.”
What Would Diplo Do? and the Millennial Aesthetic of Viceland
Amanda Petrusich | The New Yorker
“If one were to engage in the treacherous and perhaps worthless work of trying to discern the millennial condition … from Viceland’s lineup, one might observe a fascination with fringe communities, or a belief that journalism should be dangerous if not borderline illicit, or a particular kind of humor that involves the unapologetic intermingling of high and low culture. It also suggests an intolerance for self-importance, particularly when practiced by people in positions of influence or advantage.”


Don’t Miss
The Urgent Message of M.I.A.’s Kala at 10—Spencer Kornhaber reminisces on how the sound and message of the rapper’s brilliant second album attacked the concept of borders between peoples.
The Business of Creativity
Writing in Someone Else’s World—Jason Heller tells the story of how he stumbled on a high-pay, low-prestige way to enter the publishing world.
The Art—and Business—of Making Music Videos—Catherine Green interviews Dave Meyers, who has directed some of the most iconic videos of the Y2K era.
Film
Icarus: A Doping House of Cards Tumbles Down—Sophie Gilbert watches a new Netflix documentary, in which a filmmaker accidentally captures how one of the biggest scandals in sporting history came to light.
The Grimy, Chaotic Thrills of Good Time—David Sims enjoys Robert Pattinson’s electrifying performance in the Safdie brothers’ tale of a dark journey into New York’s criminal underbelly.
When the Planet Is Reality Television—Megan Garber posits that An Inconvenient Sequel is technically a documentary, but only technically.
The Moody, Mixed Messages of Wind River—Christopher Orr reviews Taylor Sheridan’s uneven, but potent, vengeance film rooted in the death of a young Native American woman.
TV
Game of Thrones: Queen of the Ashes—Lenika Cruz, Megan Garber, and Spencer Kornhaber discuss “The Spoils of War,” the fourth episode of the show’s seventh season.
Game of Thrones: Dragons Are the Nuclear Option—Sophie Gilbert notes the creatures are the most powerful weapon in Westeros, but that this week’s episode showed the horrific cost of using them.
The Joke Has Died With Wet Hot American Summer: Ten Years Later: David Sims thinks the latest Netflix spin-off of the 2001 cult-comedy classic brings back the old gang but has nothing new to do with them.
Settling vs. Settling Down: 2 Ways of Looking at the Bachelorette Finale—Megan Garber writes about how some fans saw Rachel Lindsay’s final choice as a compromise of her desires, but it can also be viewed as getting her exactly what she wanted.
Music
The Very Human Return of Kesha—Spencer Kornhaber listens to Rainbow, an album that blends fantasy fun and bummer reality following the pop star’s public legal and personal struggle.
Sports
The Dodgers Aim for History—and a Championship—Robert O’Connell says having the best regular season in baseball rarely leads to a World Series win, but the Los Angeles team is hoping to defy the odds.
No Country for Colin Kaepernick—Vann R. Newkirk II believes it’s possible that the activist-athlete will never take another snap in the NFL.
Books
Storytellers Grapple With the Porn Identity—Sophie Gilbert analyzes new works from Jon Ronson and Tom Perrotta that examine the cultural impact of a digital sexual revolution.


A year ago, Colin Kaepernick—as an injured San Francisco 49ers backup quarterback during an exhibition game—began his practice of sitting during the pregame rendition of the national anthem. “I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color,” he said of his protest. Through the season, even as he regained the starting gig for 11 games, Kaepernick continued his demonstration.
Of course, his protest wasn’t exactly well-received. Kaepernick faced near-universal revulsion from NFL team offices, and fared little better among the sports commentariat. President Obama and Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg have opined about his protest. President Trump—echoing a large percentage of Americans—has boasted about his role in keeping Kaepernick out of a job. After the quarterback chose to enter free agency in March, the same front offices that criticized him refused to offer him roster spots, even over marginal talents.
Less than a month away from the start of the regular season, Kaepernick is still out in the cold. Last weekend, the Miami Dolphins chose to sign the quarterback Jay Cutler over Kaepernick—and Cutler is coming out of retirement and is reportedly very much out of shape. Though the Baltimore Ravens’s coach and general manager both reported interest in Kaepernick and endorsed his skills, the business side of the operation has refused to offer him a contract, even as the team signed David Olson, a guy who last played for something called the Champions Indoor Football league. But despite the increasing likelihood that he will lose his spot in the NFL, Kaepernick has persisted in his activism. It seems, even, that this is the outcome for which he was prepared all along.
Did Colin Kaepernick's Protest Fail?
Just a month before Kaepernick’s protest began, Alton Sterling, a 37-year-old black man, was shot and killed by police in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, while selling CDs outside of a convenience store. Just a day after that, Philando Castile was shot and killed by Saint Anthony, Minnesota, police officer Jeronimo Yanez during a traffic stop, and protests in both Louisiana and the Twin Cities punctuated the prelude to football season. A month after Kaepernick began his protest, Terence Crutcher was shot and killed by Officer Betty Shelby in Tulsa, Oklahoma; and Keith Lamont Scott was shot and killed by officers in Charlotte, North Carolina, who admitted that video showed no “absolute definitive, visual evidence” that he’d provoked them.
Kaepernick saw his own protest as an extension of the Black Lives Matter movement and of the raucous protests that erupted in each of those cities. “It will be very telling about what happens to the officer that killed him,” he told reporters about Crutcher last September. “They shot and killed a man and walked around like it wasn’t a human being.” Yet Kaepernick’s protest was muted compared to those outcries. He chose to sit—an action that he soon modified into a kneel in order to avoid disrespecting veterans—and never made public mention of his protest unless asked about it.
After years of media and political backlash against the tactics of Black Lives Matter, from efforts to criminalize marches to proposed legislation that might allow drivers to kill protesters with impunity to wild claims that the movement’s strategies actually kill people, Kaepernick simply chose not to stand. The protest spread to others in the NFL, and to other sports, perhaps because of its resemblance to another famous sports demonstration. Although the “Kaepernick kneel” was much more understated and less directly connected to an ideology than the choice by sprinters Tommie Smith and John Carlos to raise their black-gloved fists to the sky during the 1968 Olympics, it carried the same kind of defiance.
As he’s sought a new job this offseason, his detractors have proffered a shifting set of explanations for his inability to land a roster spot. But in a league where much more marginal talents or much more damaging reputations than his are flourishing, with due consideration to the capricious and often arbitrary nature of employment in the National Football League, it seems clear enough that Kaepernick’s defiance is really the thing.
Maybe an informal ban from the NFL was the ultimate end for his protest. What the last year of his activism has illustrated more than anything is that the NFL will not—and perhaps cannot—tolerate politics that challenge the status quo or run the risk of upsetting white fans. If he doesn’t receive a training camp invite this month, Kaepernick’s biggest impact could be in holding a mirror to the NFL, and through his own treatment highlighting exactly where the league fails.
Exile would also amplify the athlete’s message about the country. The NFL has risen to prominence in the last half-century as America’s true pastime at least in part because of how well it embodies the American ethos. Football Sunday is a kind of Sabbath for the country, and the NFL is the mother church of a new American civic religion. Through football, a one-hour spectacle of peak human performance and perfect pageantry is transubstantiated in real time into the country’s sustaining mythology. Americans see in football what they see in themselves. Kids from the bleakest conditions see heroes on the field from the same places. Adults soldier on through crushing workloads and illness with the template of godlike athletes playing through injury in their minds. Americans build lifelong and familial bonds through the sport—Packers, Patriots, and Panthers are bred and born everyday.
But the NFL is also a reflection of the worst parts of America, and its neuroses and pathologies. Violence between the lines is often accompanied by the dishonor of violence against women and other brutal off-the-field incidents, which often go unpunished by the league. The necessity of superhuman effort and workaholism breaks down human bodies and minds and has led to the NFL’s own mini-opioid epidemic. Science is regularly ignored when it runs up against profit, even when its portents are dire. And the very patriotism that now fuels the NFL—much of which is performed during the same anthem Kaepernick protests—has been attacked as a cynical exercise in paid propaganda.
Through history, activists have learned that the best way to fight the forces advancing militarism, bigotry, and poverty in the country has been to turn its worst impulses against it. Such was the crux of civil disobedience as practiced by Martin Luther King Jr. and the nonviolent segments of the civil-rights movement that he helped lead. That movement found that provoking exaggerated responses to rather minimal protests—sit-ins, marches, and bus rides—was useful in subverting American claims to virtue and the colorblindness of justice. Activists embraced prison time and other draconian measures from authorities—sometimes paying the ultimate price—as a method of showcasing just how deep injustice ran.
Kaepernick is not King; he is a multimillionaire athlete equipped with nondiscrimination and political-activism protections for which activists of King’s generation fought, and unburdened by some of the real dangers that they faced. But his protest does resemble those of previous athletes-turned-activists who put their livelihoods on the line to make statements. One of the popular arguments early on against Kaepernick was that he was too privileged, and that his protest had no real skin in the game. Or, as Forbes contributor Eric Macramalla put it last August: “There is one key feature that distinguishes Ali from Kaepernick, and that is sacrifice.”
A year later, such criticisms clearly missed the mark. Kaepernick has already sacrificed money, influence, and perhaps his career. And judging by his prioritization of activism across the globe now—with some 49ers staffers indicating “Kaepernick might actually rather do social justice work full-time than play quarterback”—that sacrifice appears to have always been the endgame.
Lost in most of the uproar over Kaepernick’s choice to kneel is the fact that none of the officers involved in the killings of Sterling, Castile, Crutcher, or Scott were convicted of any crime, and most never even saw trial. Despite the Trump administration’s condemnation of black protesters and the spread of the idea of a “Ferguson effect” chilling law enforcement and increasing crime, annual killings by police have barely changed over the past three years, and black and brown people still make up a highly disproportionate number of those slain. The country now faces up to eight years of a president and attorney general who have openly derided criminal-justice reforms and advocated to enact more carceral laws.
But in exposing the hypocrisy of the NFL—and by extension America—protests like Kaepernick’s may have longlasting effects. Already, the NFL faces the prospect of boycotts and a further erosion of its stained public image if Kaepernick isn’t signed. Tides turn quickly, and Kaepernick’s saga could be one of many tiny ripples that force the country away from denialism and toward progress.
It’s therefore possible that those who protested on behalf of people like Sterling, Castile, Crutcher, or Scott will one day be lauded as heroes—even as they are reviled today. Such is the American way of history. By the time King was killed in 1968, public opinion was tilted firmly against him. Tommie Smith and John Carlos were blackballed, and faced a multitude of death threats in their time, even as their protest is remembered now as one of the most remarkable moments in Olympic history. Ali once faced widespread denunciation and a ban from boxing for his political views and anti-patriotism, even as he is now upheld as the model activist-athlete by Americans of all races and ideologies. Kaepernick is carrying on that legacy. This country can be changed through sport, and his protest is just a first step.


I match the profile of perhaps Dave Meyers’s most notorious type of fan.
As the director began making regular appearances on MTV’s Making the Video in the early 2000s, I hit puberty and set about adjusting my tastes to the pop-culture sights and sounds available to me. Meyers is, in part, responsible for many of them.
I can remember sitting on the island countertop in my parents’ kitchen, neck craned back, unblinking eyes trained on the TV screen where Britney Spears sat perched on a glittering star, tonguing her way through “Lucky.” MTV’s cameras flitted between Spears lip-synching on set and crew members hovering just outside the frame. Meyers appeared on camera almost as much as Spears herself, explaining the video concept and orienting the viewer to whichever scene they were shooting.
Making the Video offered a “private” glimpse at the work that went into videos that would then land on TRL’s countdown for weeks on end. The MTV machine was in full swing, fueled by the piercing howl of teenage girls—myself included—and pop-music enthusiasts, with creators like Meyers toiling inside.
The video for “Lucky” premiered in 2000—the first of three years in Meyers’s career where his work was, to me, inescapable on TV. A sampling of his early-aughts prolificity: Outkast’s “B.O.B”; Jennifer Lopez’s “I’m Real”; Enrique Iglesias’s “Be With You” (with a cameo by Shannon Elizabeth); DMX’s “Party Up (Up in Here)”; Kid Rock’s “American Badass” (and the preceding two singles that put the rapper and possible senatorial candidate on the map); Mya’s “Free”; Ja Rule and Ashanti’s “Always On Time”; and No Doubt’s “Hey Baby.” He’s also responsible for handfuls of music videos with Missy Elliott, Jay-Z, Dave Matthews Band, Creed, Pink, Janet Jackson, Celine Dion, Korn—it’s a lot.
Browsing the core years of his music-video domination is an experience similar to skimming BuzzFeed posts targeted to the mid-Millennial set—“Only ’00s Teens Will Remember These Ancient Cellphones”; “45 Songs That Were Definitely on Your 7th-Grade Pump-Up Mix”; “These Co-Workers Recreated Janet’s ‘All for You’ Choreography and I’m SCREAMING.”
Later in the 2000s, Meyers slowed the pace of his music-video production to focus on commercial work—he’s responsible for the iconic iPod silhouette campaign, among others—and tackle a feature-length movie that would become the middling horror flick The Hitcher. In 2015, his music videos began to garner more attention again: The huge response to Missy Elliott’s “WTF (Where They From)” was an especially pleasant surprise.
Earlier this year, Meyers co-directed the video for “Humble” with Kendrick Lamar and Dave Free, a.k.a. the Little Homies. As they and the rest of Lamar’s team watched the video explode online, and largely positive feedback poured in, thoughts turned to its award-show prospects. Despite Meyers’s decades-long career directing some of pop and hip-hop’s biggest stars, his experience with major networks has soured him on what should be a proud moment for a creator. “[With] movies, the director still goes up and gets the award; the producers still get the Best Film award,” Meyers told me. “In videos, that’s not how it works. The people that make the videos, that created the videos, that came up with the ideas for the videos—they barely get a ticket at the award show.”
And in the teenybopper heyday of TRL and Making the Video, when Meyers was at least recognized on the street, if not the stage, creative direction and skill weren’t top priorities for mainstream fans. “‘What did you guys think of the video?’ ‘Oh my god, he’s so hot!’" Meyers jokingly recalled. “That doesn’t tell me anything. How do I get better as a filmmaker if that’s your response?”
In that respect, the last several years have been a boon in audience feedback. YouTube comments and views have proved to be useful gauges for a video’s success. And despite dips in budgets in years past, the art of matching a visual narrative to lyrics has demonstrated some staying power. Over the last 20 years, Meyers has adapted to the consumption habits of his audience, on top of the demands of artists and their handlers, as fandom and the business of entertainment have shifted dramatically. In 2017, he’s already racked up a tally of well-received videos for Elliott, Lamar, SZA, and other buzzy artists.
For nearly two hours on a Monday in July, Meyers and I sat side by side in some (surprisingly comfortable) arena seats overlooking the set of an upcoming video and talked about the frustrations and epiphanies he’s stumbled upon over the course of his career. What follows is an edited and condensed transcript of our conversation.
Catherine Green: So I’ve read the one-liner origin story—about how a chance encounter with the director Gus Van Sant led you to your destiny in music videos. Can you fill in the details for me?
Dave Meyers: Yeah, there’s a bit more to that. (Laughs.) Basically I came out of film school with a pretty solid sense of wanting to do films. I had written five scripts, I was taking meetings, I was fully immersed in the movie side. I had shot a music video in high school to a Slick Rick song, “Children’s Story,” so I sort of had a dormant music-video love that I don’t think I understood. [It was] kind of a perfect storm of meeting Gus and him saying do music videos, me turning on F. Gary Gray’s work, which was TLC’s “Waterfalls” and “Natural Born Killaz” with Ice Cube and Dre—it tapped into my early days when I did the music video for Slick Rick. And I set my sights on directing a spec music video, which then led me to get signed.

I was working as a temp, which is like a temporary assistant. You get a call the morning of, and they’re like, “Hey, be here at Paramount at 9 a.m.” I could type really fast so I ended up becoming a popular temp. This was back in the time long before the current era of digital stuff—we had to use VHS tapes. But they’re expensive to a guy who made less than $10,000 a year. And so I worked at Paramount and they would recycle, so there’d be 80 Star Trek tapes that they didn’t need anymore, and I would grab all that stuff. I had a friend who worked at a dub house—he’d make all the reels for me, and then I would use the mail system at Paramount to send it all out. Then I would use the phones at the studio system, ‘cause back then it wasn't just a universal charge for long distance. It was about 70 phone calls a week, and they were pretty much a whole year long of nos.
I was really good at letter writing. I used to work at a nonprofit organization, Independent Features Project/West [now called Film Independent]—they do the Spirit Awards. The big boss was Dawn Hudson—she now runs the Academy [of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences]. They were fantastic at getting on people’s good side. So I used that letter-writing understanding and the language that I learned to write respectful letters to the community of music. And most of it went on deaf ears, but there was one guy, Coolio’s manager Paul Stewart, who saw the letter, watched my Slick Rick high-school thing, and was like, “Holy shit, we gotta give this guy a video.” I think it was about a year before I heard from him, and then it was another half a year before he gave me a video that nobody ever saw. But nevertheless, the action of giving me the video made some other people I was talking to give me videos, and then the culmination of that eventually got me signed.
Green: Give me a ballpark of what kind of video budget you were working with when you were just starting to build a portfolio and reputation.
Meyers: At the very beginning, most videos averaged $200,000 to $300,000—and I was getting $30,000 videos. It’s funny, ‘cause now there’s tons of $30,000 videos, so young directors have lots of opportunities. When I was coming up, because it was all about fitting in, most studios, even for beginning artists, they would get the $200,000 and they would get a [familiar director]. So it was very hard to find $30,000 videos to even build a reel. Kid Rock I think was my biggest budget, $150,000. And then quickly it got to the $200,000-to-$500,000 range. After I sort of hit the ceiling of attention, I started very quickly getting $500,000 to a million for everything, and I spent about two years at that level.
Green: Early in your career when you were still hustling on a low budget, what other workarounds did you come up with to get what you needed?
Meyers: I’m always getting favors. In the early videos, I was just shopping—knocking on doors, trying to get freebies and favors anywhere I could. It’s kind of my equivalent to hip-hop guys selling stuff out of their trunk. I had young ambition, so the amount of nos that I heard didn’t sway me. Right now, it would sway me. At least now there’s an occasional yes, and big high-profile yeses that go along with all the nos.
There’s logical reasons why I got the “Humble” video, and Kendrick would ultimately have to speak to that. But spiritually sometimes I think about it and I’m like, “Well, I am that guy in music videos.” There’s a lot of other directors that showboat and do what they do, and are fly. And I’m very grounded, always have been grounded. But was I chosen cosmically, because I put out that energy and maybe Kendrick absorbed it? These are the things I think about at night.
Green: So you’ve got a reputation for being grounded while shooting?
Meyers: Well, I just am. Some people have commented—Puffy was the funniest. He was like, “Damn! You really a nice dude!” He said it in shock, like I wasn’t supposed to be. It made me insecure actually. Other artists—I know the repeat visits are probably because I’m low-key. And their machines are so intense. I just sort of always got a smile on like, “We’re here now—let’s have some fun.” It’s not a calculated thing. It’s just who I am.
That’s why I went back to videos [after focusing on commercials]. Because I haven’t gotten to do Star Wars, and I haven’t gotten to do the movies that I’m capable of doing. This is an outlet for me. The commercials were becoming a little challenging, ‘cause there’s so much interference and so many compromises. When I first came up, making music videos was not only a creative outlet; it was also my means of making money. Now that I have a commercial career, this is no longer a means of making money. Just, what’s the dopest video I can put together right now? With the elements I’m being given, what’s the best I can do? And expressing that has been really fulfilling.
Green: What was the impetus for getting into commercials? Were you just handed a really sweet offer, or what?
Meyers: I was exhausted. You have three hours to sleep, and every shoot you show up and it’s like, “Oh my god, things are changing.” And I had won every award—there wasn’t much left in videos for me to feel a sense of accomplishment.
Green: Tell me about some of the more systemic flaws or issues you see creeping up in music videos. It seems like a couple years ago, one of those would’ve been lower budgets.
Meyers: Financially, everything has come down. Budgets in commercials have been coming down because they’re less of a priority; they’re a fraction of what they were even six years ago. So they’re putting money toward other kinds of things—VR, other types of headline stuff that can get the brand some attention.
The business-run mentality of creativity is where the problems begin. The only people that really seem to get it right are Marvel, and I think that that’s exciting—when you see a brand like Marvel understand their brand and protect their brand. They’re not protecting “what’s the safest choice?” They’re protecting “what’s the relevant choice?” What are fans gonna care about? What’s gonna keep this alive in the long run? And they’re doing it in such brilliant way—it’s what musicians do. Marvel is doing what Katy Perry does, or what Kendrick does, but they’re doing it across all their superheroes. It’s rare that that kind of brand intelligence is applied to movies.
Suddenly what audiences have to say and what critics have to say is meaningful again. And I remember hearing this a couple years ago: “Oh, we only make horror films; we only make this ...” That started to change into “We gotta make good films.” That’s the best thing for creativity, that it suddenly matters to be good.
I couldn’t even tell you that what I’m saying is gonna be relevant a year from now; it’s changing so fast. But it does feel like creativity has been democratized. So if you’re a young kid, or you’re an old veteran, you’re basically equals now. And it’s really about who’s got the hotness. And that’s what I’ve been dealing with coming back to videos; that is a kick in the ass a little bit, trying to make sure that the shit’s not been seen before.
Green: In practical terms, what does “co-directing” actually look like on set for you? “Humble,” for instance, was co-directed by you and the Little Homies.
Meyers: Co-directing isn’t really what you think it is. Any time I’ve shared co-direction, it’s always usually an acknowledgement that the artist is there and present in the creativity. So I’m in a sense collaborating with him in the creation of the idea. Nobody usually gets in my way of the directing of it. In Kendrick’s case, he has a behind-the-scenes guy, Dave [Free], who is sitting with me and helping me understand the vernacular, that gets certain things that I need to get. A lot of the extras are part of Kendrick’s camp—we don’t cast them. He just knows the family and the world. They put “Little Homies” on everything that they do, kinda like a brand. Missy did that. They want their crowd to know that they have their imprint on it.
Usually, it’s harmony. We all have the same goal—I wouldn’t want it any other way. In a weird way, usually the co-directions, when credited, they’re usually reflections of a better behind-the-scenes environment for me.
Green: Tell me about the title cards in your videos. It seems like they’ve shown up more frequently in the last few years.
Meyers: It’s just a way to put your name on it. Again, in my particular case, I’m not doing this for money. What I’m doing it for is, “Hey, I’m giving you the best of my creativity and I’d like you to know that it came from me.”
Green: You’ve mentioned in past interviews that it’s increasingly difficult even to get a free ticket to an award show where one of your videos might be in the running. Is that still an issue? Any improvement?
Meyers: Well, since that sentiment, I haven’t gone to an award show. This year might be different. There’s possibilities that I’ll be nominated—who knows?
Green: It’s okay if you don’t want to jinx it.
Meyers: If I’m lucky enough to be a part of a moment where Kendrick’s gonna get acknowledged, I’d like to be there with Kendrick. And if he wants me there or he’s inviting me to be there, it can help. That would be rewarding to me and fulfilling, to watch him have his moment. Whether I’m included in it or not really doesn’t matter to me. But to sort of earn the right to participate in that moment with him is exciting. So that would drive me to an award show. If it’s separated, and I’m over there in the nosebleeds, I might not go. I might just watch it from TV.
I don’t hold a grudge; it’s just the way it is. I’m not alone, they’re not isolating me, it’s just, again, bad politics on the way that filmmaking is respected in videos.
I don’t know. If it was respected, we’d get points on the YouTube clicks. I’m worth 4 or 5 billion hits, and that’s probably several million dollars that I would get in residuals if I was part of that. And that’s how movies work. They’re underpaying directors anyway, so it’s sort of like, “Here, here’s a carrot,” you know? If it’s a fucking huge, massive hit, you get a little bump.
Meyers: No, in the sense that I always have ideas, I always have ambition, and I always seem to have opportunities.
What I go through is sort of a mild version of writer’s block. It’s more about time spent. If I put enough time into one thing I will figure it out.
In videos, sometimes it’s a cold call, meaning that you get the track but you don’t talk with the artists, and it’s a guessing game. I don’t know what the hell they want to do. And if they don’t give you a seed of something, then you’re just taking a crapshoot of what you want. In the opportunities where people communicate, I usually get there. Maybe not the first [idea], maybe not the second one, maybe not the third one. But if there’s a will to want to work, then that’s fine.
Ambition is everything. Talent is not everything. Being able to take high risks and stand out while you’re young is critical—in this culture, it’s everything.
Green: I’m interested in that element of ambition when it comes to your wanting to get into movies. What’s the appeal to you? Is it the opportunity for more storytelling? Is it the length of time to play with? Is it that you wouldn't have to focus a piece of work around a pop star?
Meyers: Oh, no, that I don’t mind. If someone told me, “Hey, you want 50 years of doing music videos at proper budgets?” I’d be like, “Aw yeah, it’s incredible doing this stuff!” It’s more digestible, and that might actually be the saving of music videos. With movies—having someone give you two hours of their time is much harder than three minutes.
With all spiritual and actual thanks to Kendrick, I seem to have the opportunity to branch out. I’ve done two more videos for him. All I want is to give thanks. And beyond the thankfulness of it all, it’s a wonderful relationship. I had that with Missy. So I did 15 years of videos with Missy as a result. I have that with Pink. And to have that with someone as brilliant as Kendrick, it gets me excited.
But that’s in his court. I’ll be available; it’s just—it’s a matter of the road he’s traveling. I’m just one little, tiny footnote in his larger scheme of brilliant poetry and innovation. So he needs to keep his edge, and hopefully I ... That keeps me up at night, too. I gotta stay edgy for him, I gotta give him the best shit I can dream up, and hopefully that’s good enough to stay in his family.
Green: We’ve talked a little bit about what younger filmmakers and directors are up against. What advice would you give them? What would you tell them to prepare themselves for?
Meyers: Times are so much more amenable to them. The birth of influencers is evidence of that—people making $60,000 a month are using their iPhones to shoot little comedy skits. It’s just young people doing what they do. And advertisers want that audience. So I think that the most important thing is to just do it. Find your voice, and then push your voice. And then be humble enough to hear the feedback. If nobody’s checking for what you’re doing, try again. And keep trying.


At the end of Wind River, the major-film directorial debut of Taylor Sheridan, we are informed that no records are kept of how many Native American women go missing each year. It is an odd political note on which to conclude. Because while Wind River revolves around the disappearance and death of a young Native American woman, she is largely missing from the film herself, appearing alive only in one brief flashback.
Instead, the film is concerned principally with the fates of the fathers of such young women, two of whom appear in the film as principal characters. Which raises the questions: Is Wind River a story about the unacknowledged trials of Native American women? A sincere exploration of male grief? Or simply a vengeance movie that leverages the deaths of young women to up its emotional kick? I don’t doubt that Sheridan aspired to some combination of the first two; I fear that what he wound up with was closer to the final one.
Jeremy Renner plays Cory Lambert, a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service agent tasked with patrolling the snowy wildernesses of Wyoming in winter. While out hunting for a predatory mountain lion, he instead comes across the body of a young woman (Kelsey Asbille) frozen in the snow. She had been sexually assaulted before fleeing barefoot into the night, until her lungs literally burst from gulping the subzero air. Her name is Natalie, and she was the daughter of Martin (Gil Birmingham), a close friend of Cory’s.
Cory, too, lost a daughter to the unforgiving elements years earlier. He and his Native American wife (Julia Jones), since divorced, had gone out of town; an impromptu party thrown by their daughter got out of hand; and she, too, died alone in the snow under hazy circumstances. His stake now in discovering what happened to Natalie is personal and palpable, if perhaps a touch overdetermined.
The Disappointments of Detroit
Because the death took place on the Wind River Indian Reservation, jurisdictional questions abound. Ultimately, the investigation falls to a tribal policeman named Ben (the always wry and wonderful Graham Greene); an ill-equipped—literally, she’s just been flown in from Vegas without even a winter coat—FBI agent, Jane Banner (Elizabeth Olsen); and Cory, whose cold-weather hunting and tracking skills prove to be precisely what the case requires.
The mystery itself turns out not to be much of a mystery, and its abrupt solution, offered in flashback, is odd and disappointing. But from the start, it is apparent that writer-director Sheridan is more interested in the mood of his film than in the details of its plot. His two previous screenplays, for Sicario and Hell or High Water—both excellent—were set in the wilds of Texas. Here he opts for the still more desolate snowscapes of Wyoming. (The Coen brothers did something similar when, having set their first two films in the arid flats of the Southwest, they moved their sixth, Fargo, to frosty Minnesota.)
With the aid of the cinematographer Ben Richardson (Beasts of the Southern Wild), Sheridan makes the landscape itself—snowswept, dotted with trees and outcroppings of rock, carved up by the treads of snowmobiles—a character as vivid as the human ones: austere, secretive, and ominous. (As Cory explains at one point: “Luck don’t live out here. Luck lives in the cities.”) It is no accident that, whatever roles human agency played in the deaths of Natalie and Cory’s daughter, the actual killer was in both instances the frigid land itself.
Sheridan’s dialogue is once again sharp and understated, and he shows an aptitude with his cast. All deliver strong performances, in particular Olsen and Birmingham, the latter of whom also had a major role in Hell or High Water. (Sheridan is an actor himself, best known for his role on Sons of Anarchy.)
For all its strengths, Wind River stumbles in its final act, as it struggles to balance its themes of solemn grief, macho retribution, and gender and cultural enlightenment. But it is still a film worth seeing—as, one hopes, will be whatever films lie in Sheridan’s promising future.


This is the age of the cliffhanger. It is the age of the plot twist. It is the age that has taught people to make sense of the world not merely with that time-honored aid—the story—but also with stories that self-consciously mimic the serial workings of television. So the recent Congressional debates over the future of Obamacare resolved not just with a vote, but with “the most dramatic night in the United States Senate in recent history.” The recent increase in the bellicosity of the threats exchanged between the United States and North Korea have been understood not merely as escalation, but as “Game of Thrones rhetoric.” The presidency of Donald Trump, a man who was catapulted to national fame with the help of a reality TV show, is itself often interpreted as such a show, complete with heavy edits (“alternative facts”), victims, villains, and an assortment of cast members who are obsessed with winning and decidedly Not Here to Make Friends.
Serial Thriller
Into that environment—reality, as understood by “reality”—comes An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power, the follow-up to An Inconvenient Truth, Al Gore’s 2006 documentary about climate change. The logic of dramatic serialization is in one way built into the sequel’s title: The 2017 version of Gore’s Oscar-winning film is, the new one promises, simply the next installment in the show—just another entry in the franchise. (Earth 2: Judgment Day? 2 Hot 2 Incurious?) But serialization infuses the movie in other ways, too: This version of Gore’s original PowerPointapalooza now features, true to its 2017 premiere date, distinct heroes, distinct villains, surprising plot twists, and, yes, a final, tantalizing cliffhanger. An Inconvenient Sequel has a narrative arc. It emphasizes action. It is, like its predecessor, technically a documentary; it is a documentary, however, that has internalized the idea that the world makes its best sense—that the world is, indeed, made most relatable and most recognizably human—as a TV show.
Here are some of the similarities between the original Inconvenient Truth and its sequel: Each film is extremely earnest in its message and extremely TED Talk in its aesthetic. Each stars—and, in a much deeper way, revolves around—Al Gore. And each frames Gore as a kind of Cassandra figure, enlightened and insistent and at this point only possibly tragic. (“Future generations may well have occasion to ask themselves, ‘What were our parents thinking? Why didn’t they wake up when they had the chance?’” Gore says, gravely, in An Inconvenient Truth. In An Inconvenient Sequel, the message is similar, but the tone is not: “What were you thinking?” Gore yells, angrily, on behalf of those future generations, at climate deniers and also, one suspects, at human complacency. “Couldn’t you hear what the scientists were saying? Couldn’t you hear what Mother Nature was screaming at you?”)
Perhaps above all, both films are trying to navigate the challenge that any such project—about a slow-moving tragedy, about a systemic and widespread phenomenon—will need to: To make the stakes palpable. To make the problem real for people, not just intellectually but emotionally. To take numbers and charts and graphs and carbon-emissions statistics and present them in such a way that a viewer will feel them, not just in her mind but in her gut. The truths Gore is talking about, after all, are so omnipresent as to be—or at least to threaten to be—invisible. They’re in the air we breathe and the water we drink and in the chill of an over-cooled office. They are lurking in all those delightful memes that came from the footage of Planet Earth II. They have transformed even that most conventionally dull of conversation topics—the weather—into something fraught and political and dangerous. They have also given way to a paradox: These things are so intimate they can, in fact, feel distant.
An Inconvenient Truth met its intrinsic challenge—to humanize climate change—by focusing on the work of one particular human: Al Gore. In the original film, Gore is a Virgil figure, describing the inferno he hopes to prevent. He guides viewers, armed with a slide deck and an earnest conviction in the power of persuasion, through the climate-change data that scientists have been gathering over the decades. Gore, in all this, is certainly a character, in the narrative sense. His tour of an imperiled planet is interwoven with a tour through his own recent history: the car accident that nearly took his young son’s life and made him question his priorities and his purpose; the loss of his sister, to lung cancer; the loss of the presidency, to George W. Bush; the mockery he endured at the hands of his fellow politicians. (“This guy is so far out in the environmental extreme,” George H.W. Bush put it in one speech, “we’ll be up to our necks in owls and out of work for every American.”)
And yet Gore, for the most part, plays the part of the messenger in An Inconvenient Truth. His own stories of loss and (potential) redemption cannily mirror the broader message Gore is attempting to send with the film itself: that humanity, too, can be redeemed. That we have had setbacks, yes, and struggles, yes, but we can move beyond them. We can be better. The tone of An Inconvenient Truth is somber—with all its dire statistics and sober warnings, it is the spiritual precursor of the recent New York article, “The Uninhabitable Earth”—and yet its upshot is decidedly optimistic: Change (for now) is still possible, An Inconvenient Truth insists. Humans, sufficiently enlightened and sufficiently committed, can shift the planet’s fate. They can move the tides, quite literally.
An Inconvenient Truth also adhered to the logic of the documentary, as a form: It had a distinctly participatory element to it. (It, like its sequel, was produced by the social-change-oriented production company named, fittingly enough, Participant Media.) This was a film that was rendered, in spirit and occasionally in practice, in the second person; its audience was part of the story. It was attempting to talk with people rather than at them. “Are you ready to change the way you live?” the film asked, in text rendered against a stark-black screen, at its conclusion. It continued: “The climate crisis can be solved. … You can reduce your carbon emissions. ... If you believe in prayer, pray that people will find the strength to change. … Encourage everyone you know to see this movie. … Learn as much as you can about the climate crisis. … Then put your knowledge into action.”
An Inconvenient Sequel concludes with a similar call to arms. (“Use your voice, … Convince your town/city/school to convert to 100-percent renewable energy. … Because your works depends on it.”) There’s a hashtag now, of course—#beinconvenient—and at the very end a reminder that Gore, in true TED Talk form, has converted his slide show into a 10-minute version that can be easily shared with anyone who doubts the veracity or the severity of global climate change. That all makes for a rather jarring ending, though, because An Inconvenient Sequel is for the most part decidedly third-person in its approaches. This is a story in the most Campbellian and conventional sense. It has distinct heroes (Gore, and Gore’s colleagues) and villains (Donald Trump). Its action builds to a single, climactic event (the United Nations’s conference on climate change, held in Paris in late 2015). It understands itself as a single episode in an ongoing saga. And: It is not so much making a case as it is simply telling a story. It is, in its own way, not here to make friends.
And what that means, as will be the case with any reality TV show, is a filtering of facts to fit the show’s established narrative conceits. We see Gore at the Paris talks, acting the world leader even though, technically, he is not one. (It would be decidedly awkward to have a protagonist who is not, also, the star.) We see the actual U.S. president, Barack Obama, who delivered a rousing speech at the conference, effectively sidelined from the drama. But we get in the president’s place a montage of behind-the-scenes policymaking starring Al Gore: Gore, talking with representatives from India about their economic objections to carbon-emissions regulations. Gore, on the phone with Lawrence Summers, the former U.S. Treasury secretary and chief economist of the World Bank, discussing ways to negotiate with India. Gore, on the phone with the investment banker Colin le Duc, sharing his plan to ask Elon Musk for solar-energy technology (“Elon has a record of giving up IP,” Gore notes, correctly). If Hollywood were in the practice of giving credits to inanimate objects, Al Gore’s iPhone might be listed as An Inconvenient Sequel’s guest star.
This emphasis on Gore as a journeying hero—and, with it, inevitably, this emphasis on the dealings of the powerful—is, in a sense, simply another instance of an Inconvenient film using the former vice president to mirror its broader message: Individual action can do only so much to solve the problem, the sequel, older and wiser and more jaded than the original, admits. The film’s subtitle, Truth to Power, ostensibly refers to resistance against the presidential administration that removed the U.S. from the agreement Gore (along with so many others) fought for in Paris. As the film plays out, though, the line also comes to refer, ironically, to Gore himself: What is Gore, after all, if not powerful? What is Gore doing, in those cheerily lit conference rooms and chauffeured European automobiles, if not exercising a kind of power that is not technically governmental, but that is extremely government-adjacent? Gore name-drops “Elon”; at the screening I attended, that elicited some audible groans.
But this is a film that trusts in its tropes, and one is not to meant to question Gore or his place in the world, physical or otherwise. An Inconvenient Sequel is not presented as a conversation-starter, after all, in the manner of the original; it is presented as a story to take or leave—a reality that has been captured and edited and filtered. Al Gore is the Bachelor, on his journey to happily ever after. He is the baker who has been honing his recipe for decades. He is the survivor.  He is the voice.
And Donald Trump, on the other hand—who appears only briefly, mostly through soundbites Gore listens to, stony-faced, as he stares out of a window into the middle distance—is the villain. He is, in this set-up, the guy who will ally with you and then betray you at Tribal Council. The guy who will steal your pea puree. The guy who is very much not here for the right reasons.
Which are all, to an extent, fair characterizations. Future generations very likely will judge Al Gore to be on the right side of our shared physical history, and Trump to be on the wrong. And climate policy itself, after all, as my colleague Robinson Meyer put it, “is made through diplomacy, international investments, and the aloof professionalism of the global business class”—and those are, collectively, “one of our best methods for actually solving (or, at least, managing) climate change.” You can in that way read An Inconvenient Sequel as a work of climate-focused realpolitik: a man and a mission, the former bending to the demands of the latter.
But you can also read An Inconvenient Sequel as unintentionally cynical. Tempered is the grassroots, activist spirit that accounts for much of the original’s box office success, not to mention its political and cultural impact. Tempered, too, is the sense that the audience here is not just an audience, but a potential collective actor—a potential participant in the story itself. (An Inconvenient Truth closes its many calls to action—reduce your carbon emissions, learn as much as you can about the climate crisis, then put your knowledge into action—with a proverb: “When you pray, move your feet.”) The sequel nods to all that (#beinconvenient); for the most part, though, it is awash in weariness. The fire of the original has been doused with frustration. The film, reflecting that, is more interested in storytelling than in conversation-starting.
That’s the thing about television: It asks extremely little of its viewers. It’s inviting in that way. It’s entertaining in that way. It conceives of life as a spectacle—full of heroes and villains and twists and turns—and is content simply to present its version of life to you, a neatly contained little story in a neatly contained little box, for as long as you’d enjoy the presentation. The TV won’t judge you if, after a long day at work, you come home and watch it for hours on end. The TV is nothing if not patient. The TV has all the time in the world. The question—and the real cliffhanger—is whether its viewers do, as well.


Readers, be warned: Good Time is not the easygoing romp its title suggests. The new movie from Joshua and Benny Safdie, the sibling team of indie filmmakers behind abrasive micro-budget cult hits like Daddy Longlegs and Heaven Knows What, is hardly a fun experience at the theater, but it is an unforgettable one. Propulsive, urgent, and frequently disturbing, Good Time is a techno-scored, 21st-century journey into New York’s criminal underbelly that manages to feel authentic and deeply surreal at the same time.
Who did the Safdie brothers recruit for this uncanny film? Robert Pattinson, of course—the one-time teen idol who now seems to enjoy defacing his movie-star looks in the name of art cinema. He was outstanding this year as the mumbling, bearded aide-de-camp in The Lost City of Z, and he’s even better here as Constantine Nikas, a small-time Queens bank robber trying to break his brother out of jail after a heist gone wrong. Good Time is nasty and sometimes unconscionably brutal, but it’s also the best film the Safdies have made, a (literally) grimy odyssey that’ll make you want to take a shower upon exiting the theater.
Indie Films to Look Forward to in 2017
The Safdies’ last movie, Heaven Knows What, was similarly tough to watch but followed more sympathetic subjects: a group of heroin addicts panhandling and trying to survive in Manhattan. Constantine (Connie to his friends) is concerned with a more immediate mess of his own making, a bank robbery that went south because of his inept, mentally challenged brother Nick (played, with surprising pathos, by Benny Safdie himself). Nick is soon arrested and sent to jail, but a fight gets him transferred to the hospital, from which Connie seeks to rescue him.
If this sounds like a poorly thought-out scheme, well, it is. Good Time is not a movie about a master criminal, and Connie’s plan doesn’t extend much beyond sneaking his brother past the cops and hiding out somewhere. The story is driven more by the powerful, largely unspoken connection between Connie (a live-wire bundle of energy) and Nick (who Connie thinks can’t survive without his help). Connie’s manic efforts to save his brother, which get him into deeper and deeper trouble as he tries to evade the police, are strangely relatable since they’re mostly non-violent. Even the bank robbery that leads off the film is a simple confidence trick, carried out by Connie silently passing threatening notes to a teller.
But then Good Time goes from a bizarre adventure to something more traditionally distressing, particularly after Connie and Ray (Buddy Duress), another prison escapee he’s gotten mixed up with, have a run-in with Dash (Barkhad Abdi), the security guard at an amusement park they try to hide out in. To the Safdies’ credit, they make no effort to varnish the inherent ugliness of Connie’s criminal life, nor the cruelty he’s willing to resort to if need be. But there’s an especially dark edge to the final act of the movie, as whatever initial motivations Connie might have had become less relevant to his desperate struggle to stay alive.
Through it all, Good Time is propelled by a pounding, synthy score from Daniel Lopatin (also known as the electronic musician Oneohtrix Point Never) and the brilliant cinematography of Safdie regular Sean Price Williams, who bathes Connie in various ghastly shades of neon as he stumbles further into the bowels of Queens. The Safdies are aiming for sensory overload, taking a classic genre of New York moviemaking (following “one crazy night,” like Martin Scorsese’s After Hours) and turning it into the ultimate bad trip.
The Safdies’ skill at shaping this upsetting story into something watchable is undeniable, but I’m not sure Good Time would work as well without Pattinson at its center. He’s gone from seeming like a superstar searching for art-film credibility—he was a little lost in David Cronenberg’s Cosmopolis (2012)—to one of Hollywood’s most genuinely exciting actors; Connie is certainly his finest performance to date. When Good Time hits its visceral lows, Pattinson keeps the movie from feeling like an exercise in futility, finding something human within a character who’s quickly losing himself in an atmosphere of total chaos.


To use the language likely heard in music-industry boardrooms circa 2010, around the time of the great female pop-superstar boom, Kesha once benefitted from strong market differentiation. She wasn’t the cryptic alien provocateur Lady Gaga; she wasn’t the coy Betty Boop update Katy Perry; she wasn’t the unflappable fashion assassin Rihanna. She was the glorious, superheroic epitome of a very familiar type—the party girl. In neon face paint and with a dollar sign in her name, she squealed about brushing her teeth with booze and sleeping with the heirs to Mick Jagger. She was fun: the brand.
But this was, in a way, just a different flavor of the same product on offer elsewhere. Kesha’s music was powered by the backbeat of Dr. Luke, a producer who’d helped set the template for 2000 club-pop and who’d been groomed by Max Martin, the most important architect of hits for a few decades now. She also was on-trend thematically: Her hedonism handily doubled as capital-e Empowerment, serving as a rallying cry for misfits and the marginalized. She sassily bit back at male creeps (“Gonna smack him if he getting too drunk”), casually preached self-acceptance (“We R Who We R”), and insisted that girls could have as much a good time as guys without being called sluts. In their way, the likes of Gaga and Perry did something similar—baby, you were born this way; baby, you’re a firework.
The Exquisite Horror in Lana Del Rey's Nostalgia
The novelty of such an act might be expected to wear off eventually, but the public never  got a chance to fully get its fill of Kesha. Instead, about two years after her 2012 sophomore album, Warrior,  she filed a lawsuit against Dr. Luke alleging abuse, sexual assault, artistic tyranny, and general horrible behavior by the producer. The illusion of her invulnerable persona was smashed forever—and its origins given grim new context with the assertion that Dr. Luke had manipulated her starting in 2005, when she was 18. The suit sought to end her contract with him; he denied all allegations; a long legal battle has resulted in no ruling on the merits of the accusations but rather a series of procedural losses for Kesha. She recently announced her intention to move on from this ugly chapter by releasing new music.

Her comeback album, Rainbow, is fascinating in terms of narrative and fine-just-fine in terms of pop. It is being released by Kemosabe Records, the imprint that Dr. Luke founded but no longer runs, and has come out reportedly with his “support” but not involvement. It appears he will get a cut of the profits. Lyrically, Kesha’s show of resilience doesn’t have a ton of specificity about what she’s overcoming—which is perhaps an artistic choice, or perhaps a sign of legally prudent caginess. What’s certain is that the outrageous character and commercial force Kesha once represented is gone, replaced by a human being: poignant, striving, and flawed.
Though Kesha’s situation isn’t fully precedented in pop, the spectacle of resetting after a setback is, and the most common tropes of the licking-one’s-wounds narrative are all here. Like Gaga with last year’s Joanne, Kesha trades thumping electro for analogue instruments and genres that, fairly or not, have an easier time being perceived as “authentic”: rock and roll, country, folk. Also like Gaga, she tries to execute this turn while tamping down, but not altogether ditching, her previous persona. Kesha opens the album with a slowly blossoming acoustic singalong, but she peppers it with “motherfuckers” and “assholes” as she would have with any given song five years ago. She goes full cowpunk on the love-crazed “Hunt You Down,” but harkens back to her old “Cannibal” shtick by saying, cheekily, that she probably won’t murder a guy who cheats on her.

Somewhat stripped down as Kesha is here, you get a clear sense of what made her musically distinct all along. It’s that voice, sharp and nasal and highly conversational, earning cringes from skeptics but a strong sense of kinship from fans. She can also belt with soul, and she cares about articulation—no lyrics sheet required to follow along. With a writing credit on all but two songs (both of which are cowritten by her mom, Pebe Sebert, including a 1980 Dolly Parton cut updated here with Parton’s participation), it’s also as obvious as ever that Kesha is accomplished in the art of pop songcraft. The title ballad in particular, reportedly written while she was in rehab for an eating disorder, captures the sense of “falling right back in love with being alive” with remarkable finesse. Dense with syllables but also graceful, it could be a showstopper in Disney’s follow-up to Frozen or Moana—no small feat.
That track and the single “Praying” both stand out for their reconciliation of the limits of the radio-pop form with walloping trauma and emotion. “Praying” in particular just gets more brutal with each listen, both because of her vocal performance and because of the tricky way it threads the line between condemnation and acceptance. A slightly more uptempo single, “Learn to Let Go,” makes for a competent empowerment anthem in line with current radio trends (islands lilt? check). It also shows some nice self-awareness: “I know I’m always, like, telling everybody you don’t got to be a victim … I think it’s time to practice what I preach.” The track’s currently sitting at the low end of the Hot 100, but just one good TV-drama soundtrack deployment could turn it into a hit.
Elsewhere, she determinedly signals that her old party-animal ways aren’t gone. “Woman,” a straightforward feminist cry with sax touches from the Dap Kings, is laced with snippets of laughter—a winning, if not altogether convincing, touch. “Boogie Feet,” featuring the Eagles of Death Metal, has her screaming like a member of Sleater-Kinney before delivering her vintage so-dumb-it’s-fabulous rapping: “Some people they got the big brains / They make all the computer games.” The engines of the fast songs are purring guitars and live drums, and while the results are catchy and charmingly brash, they’re also a challenge to a pop-radio landscape that has mostly exiled rock.
Even on such highlights, though, there’s a sense of tentative-ness that blunts the material’s impact. For all the profanity she threads in, her account of the healing process doesn’t quite transcend the generic; if only she were able to make like, say, Alanis Morissette, and use her sailor’s mouth for tarter, smarter poetry. “Don’t let the assholes wear you out / Don’t let the mean girls take the crown / Don’t let the scumbags screw you ‘round / Don’t the bastards take you down,” she sings on the opener, “Bastards,” letting common teenage disses do most of the descriptive work.
There is one memorably unique through line, though, and it’s about religion. On songs like “Hymn,” “Finding You,” and “Spaceship,” she seems to be inventing her own faith, insisting on an afterlife of aliens and energy while noticeably avoiding Christian iconography: “Lord knows this planet feels like a hopeless place,” she sings on the closer. “Thank God I’m going back home to outer space.” This cheeky new-age kick is also the direction hinted at in her trippy album art, but Rainbow itself is so caught up reacting to Kesha’s recent real-world narrative that it never fully develops its dreamscape. As she continues to rebuild her career, she might do well to find a way back to wild, uplifting fantasy—which she can, one hopes, now control more fully.


Just a few pages into Tom Perrotta’s Mrs. Fletcher, Eve, a mother in her mid-40s, overhears her teenage son receiving oral sex in his bedroom from his ex-girlfriend. What offends Eve isn’t what’s happening, exactly—she’s already made a point of explaining that she’s not a puritanical mom but a cool mom, who gives her son plenty of space and even offers to pick up condoms at the grocery store. But she’s alarmed, even repulsed, by what she hears: Brendan, her beloved only child, delivering sexual instructions in a parlance that, Eve deduces, is ripped right from hardcore pornography.
Eve recalls attending PTA seminars where a blustering county prosecutor warned parents about “the insane amount of pornography that kids were exposed to every day, a tsunami of filth unprecedented in human history.” In this environment, the man rants, it will take “constant, unwavering vigilance to keep your kids safe.” At the time, Eve and the other parents concluded that he was being hysterical—that all you had to do was teach your kids the right values, and they’d have the tools to become grounded and empathetic adults. But Brendan’s casual, degrading lingo proves how naively wrong this way of thinking was.
Is Porn Culture to Be Feared?
Or does it? Mrs. Fletcher, over the next 300 pages, explores the redefining of American sex lives by technology, but the primary person affected isn’t Brendan. Rather, it’s Eve, whose “accidental” visit to a porn site leads to a nightly obsession. Perrotta explores the ripples that reverberate from her new habit: how Eve starts to view even the most casual everyday activities through a sexualized lens, but also how pornography alters her own conception of herself as a woman. Mrs. Fletcher is a wry, compassionate novel about the ramifications of porn filtering so effortlessly into mainstream culture, without hysteria or accusations. Perrotta, well-versed in capturing the manifold follies and fetishes of human behavior, knows enough by now to gently emphasize that sex is as complicated as people are, and pornography no less so. To simply categorize porn as a malign influence on vulnerable minds is to ignore what it really says about desire.
And yet. Porn is more prevalent than ever before, watched by 82 percent of men and 60 percent of women. It’s also easier than ever to find, and free. In the U.S., it’s replacing sexual education for a generation reared on abstinence-only and limited awkward discussions with their parents. The nature of our anxieties about porn hasn’t shifted—back in the early aughts, Naomi Wolf was documenting how online porn was ruining real sex for young men—but the ease with which we’re able to find it has. But we still have no real idea what the consequences might be of making porn so readily available to anyone with a phone.
It’s this question that the writer Jon Ronson considers in The Butterfly Effect, a sprawling, frustrating new seven-part audio series available for free on Audible, soon to be released in podcast form via iTunes. Ronson starts with a single event, a German businessman who sees the lucrative potential in enabling people to share porn online, and examines the consequences that ensue. Occasionally they’re cultural: He interviews a Christian woman who’s a porn addict and talks to an autistic teenager who’s on the sex offenders registry because he sent sexually explicit images to a friend. But Ronson’s curiosity is more frequently piqued by the people who’ve lost their livelihoods thanks to free porn: the producers in the San Fernando Valley whose earnings are way down and the former actor who lost his job as a nurse after his hardcore scenes became more widely available online. Thanks to one man—the flap of a butterfly’s wings, Ronson argues—millions of lives have been upended.
How porn has affected consumers is unclear: Given how much debate there is over the current glut of porn, there’s surprisingly little research about what it’s doing to us. Some psychologists and activists state that it’s grooming young men to interpret violence as normal sexual behavior, and just last year, Republicans added an amendment to their 2016 policy platform defining porn as a “public health crisis.” But other mental-health experts liken fear of pornography to a moral panic, arguing that all parents need to do is educate kids that porn is fiction: as alien to real sex as the Olympics are to flip cup. Amid the confusion, writers like Ronson and Perrotta are picking up the slack, pondering how an abundance of graphic, hardcore sex to view might be changing the world. Their methods are very different, but their deductions align.
* * *
Ronson starts his story with an anecdote. He was meeting a porn actress in a Los Angeles hotel in 2013, he explains, when he happened to observe the hotel receptionist’s face when the actress walked in. “It was a look of total contempt,” Ronson says, in his northern English drawl, familiar to anyone who’s listened to This American Life. “It made me think that some people are only comfortable with porn people when they’re on their computers, and not in their immediate vicinity.” One of Ronson’s quirks is that he describes porn actresses and actors not as “stars” but as “porn men” and “porn women,” an oddly charming and childlike turn of phrase that evokes images of erotic Lego figures. He also adds a plosive emphasis to the “p” at the beginning of “porn” every time he says it, which is often.
The Butterfly Effect is about what happened “because of Fabian.” In the 1990s, Fabian Thylmann was a teenager in Brussels using CompuServe to trade passwords to porn sites with other teenagers. At the time, Ronson says, the only way to gain access to pornography online was with a credit-card number. But by 2010, when Thylmann bought the company that owned the streaming site PornHub, users had long since figured out how to upload their own adult videos. Thylmann consolidated the free-porn industry, ferociously buying up competitors and paid sites. By 2012, Ronson explains, 80 percent of people watching porn were doing so on one of Thylmann’s sites. In 2013, PornHub had between 65 and 70 million visitors a day.
This has, Ronson explains, been disastrous for the people who actually make porn, and his main aim with the series seem to be understanding the force of the impact on them. It’s a worthwhile, if slightly familiar, goal, given that the story of porn in 2017 is similar to so many stories of businesses made commercially unviable by technology—with a few colorful tweaks. The algorithmic classification of porn, Ronson explains, has defined two kinds of female performers, MILFs and teens, and anyone between the ages of 22 and 29 is now finding it near-impossible to get work, unless they fit into another category (“If you’re 26 with a huge butt you can do big-butt movies,” a producer explains).
But most of all, Ronson seems outraged by the fact that such a thriving industry could be desolated by technology, as if it’s never happened before in any other medium. It almost starts to feel like his real subject isn’t porn at all but the cruelty of an unfettered free market. As Irvine Welsh wrote in Porno, “If you really want to see how capitalism operates, never mind Adam Smith’s pin factory, this is the place to study.” Ronson repeatedly emphasizes Thylmann’s wealth, asking him how many cars he has, and interviewing an artist commissioned to paint a mural in Thylmann’s house, who opines about the fishtanks that require a diver to clean, and how his pool retracts like something out of a Bond film.
The biggest problem with porn, The Butterfly Effect posits, is that it’s free and easy to access. It’s a little simplistic to put this all on Thylmann, since porn-sharing sites have operated since at least the early aughts, and if he hadn’t consolidated free porn there would still be a bonanza of individual sites going it alone. (One errant observation of mine is that lamenting the internet is an odd thing to do in a podcast being released exclusively as a download.) Ronson’s most compelling episodes, by contrast, focus on the why of porn—its appeal not just for the obvious reasons, but for people who are lonely, or repressed, or damaged. He spends two episodes examining the world of custom porn, where enterprising actors and producers have set up a new business making tailored videos for wealthy private clients who specify exactly what they want.
Custom videos often aren’t sexual at all. In one, a woman is doused in ketchup. In another, two actresses set a man’s stamp collection on fire. These are specific fetishes, coming from specific psychological places. At Ronson’s behest, a porn actress interviews the man who commissioned the stamp video, who explains how his obsession with stamps had come to dominate his life and ruin his relationship. His video is an act of liberation. Another custom client requests a video of Wonder Woman being kidnapped by a gremlin, which is baffling to the producers until he explains that his mother left home when he was five. The gremlin is a manifestation of his younger self, trying desperately to stop Wonder Woman from leaving.
* * *
The idea that people are held prisoner by their own desires is also fertile ground for Perrotta: His 2004 book Little Children featured a discontented feminist housewife whose husband leaves her for an online porn star named Slutty Kay, and a pedophile grief-stricken by the loss of his mother. What’s distinctive about Mrs. Fletcher, though, is how passively and unenthusiastically his characters go about their sex lives, almost as if they have no say in the matter. “Tinder was like tequila—fun today, sad tomorrow—but sometimes you didn’t have a choice,” thinks Amanda, who works for Eve at the local senior center. Eve, meanwhile, is “addicted to internet porn,” even though it makes her feel more alone.
For as much as Eve’s new porn habit leads her to do inappropriate things—simply because she’s gotten so used to the idea propagated by internet porn that everyone in the world is having sex all the time, regardless of age, or gender, or body type—it also leads to a potent reawakening. She goes from being defined by her relationships to other people (mother, boss) to feeling seen by them as herself (an anonymous late-night text reads U r my MILF!). In the hands of a clumsier storyteller, it would be less of a revelation. But there’s freedom, and folly, for Eve in identifying as a sexual object at 46. (The book’s title would seem to be a sly reference to another married midlife woman with an inconvenient libido.)
Brendan, though, installed as a freshman in college, is paradoxically having no sex at all. One of the sharpest elements of Mrs. Fletcher is how Perrotta presents two opposing forces colliding on campus: porn culture and PC culture. Brendan falls for Amber, a smart young woman who’s “painfully aware of the mismatch between her politics and her desires”—she’s a thoughtful, sensitive intersectional feminist who’s somehow only attracted to jocks.
Perrotta makes it clear that Brendan has hidden depths, and isn’t as much of a jerk as high school has conditioned him to be. But he also has no idea how to interact with women. His casual familiarity with porn has left him with distorted ideas of how people behave in bed; he and his friends have become so habituated to the idea of a standardized female body that any deviation from the norm revolts them. Then he’s thrust into a college climate that demands aggressive sensitivity from teenage boys. Describing his first week in college, Brendan writes, “The weather was beautiful, which meant that lots of hot girls were wearing cutoffs and bikini tops ... Some of the less hot girls stripped down too, and everybody tried to be cool about it, because body image and all that.”
For Eve, porn expands her consciousness. But it confines Brendan’s. Perrotta approaches the subject of pornography with an open mind, but he’s attuned to its consequences, good and bad. Eve, who came of age in a feminist environment where porn was decried as abusive to women, comes to see it differently. Brendan, whose ex watches YouTube tutorials on blow jobs, begins to understand that sex isn’t just a purely physical act. Quietly, Perrotta points out that porn itself isn’t the problem—it’s the people who watch it.
It’s a surprisingly simple argument, and yet a shocking one, in a culture that’s as polarized over porn as it is over everything else. What if porn is neither good, nor bad, but both? What if it enables some people to feel less isolated even while it conditions others to do things they regret? It’s a conclusion Ronson almost gets at. Midway through The Butterfly Effect, he documents some people who’ve been harmed by porn, and almost all are teenagers. But he ends with a custom video in which a client asks for a video of a woman sitting cross-legged on the floor, telling the camera that he’s not alone, that he’s loved, that it will get easier. Is it porn, or therapy? It’s hard to tell.


On the afternoon of July 31, Major League Baseball’s trade deadline, the Los Angeles Dodgers acquired Yu Darvish, the best pitcher on the market, from the Texas Rangers. Four days later, Darvish debuted in his new team’s gray and blue road uniforms, lasering fastballs and looping curves for seven shutout innings. The Dodgers beat the New York Mets, 6-0, improving the best record in baseball this season to 77 wins against 32 losses. Said the catcher Yasmani Grandal of Darvish after the game, “It’s hard to say you can get any better than he was tonight.”
Grandal’s sentiment was accurate but hardly specific; the same could be said of most of the players on the Dodgers’s roster, most nights, and of the team as a whole. The 2017 Dodgers have been remarkable in every facet of the game, by any metric. They have scored the fifth-most runs in the Majors and allowed the fewest. They hit homers and doubles and play lockstep defense behind a pitching staff stuffed with aces. During one recent 50-game stretch, they won a record-tying 43 times, in every fashion imaginable: piecemeal comebacks, walk-off home runs, wire-to-wire blowouts.
The Rare Vin Scully
Dominant teams usually present a dilemma to fans who enjoy the displays but wish for tight pennant races. But even though they are 15 games clear of the pack in their own division and all but guaranteed a playoff spot already, the Dodgers’s regular season still has plenty of intrigue left, supplied by history instead of opponents. If it maintains its recent pace, the team could break the all-time mark for wins in a season, set at 116 by the 1906 Chicago Cubs and matched almost a century later by the 2001 Seattle Mariners.
Despite those gaudy aims and a quarter-billion-dollar payroll that ranks as the highest in baseball, there is a likable aspect to the roster, an almost quaint adherence to the ideal of the well-rounded team. The Dodgers have their superstars, of course—Darvish joins Clayton Kershaw, the franchise’s icon and the decade’s best pitcher, and the shortstop wunderkind Corey Seager, as names even casual followers of the game will recognize—but their role players and fill-ins have contributed just as much to the trailblazing season. When Adrian Gonzalez, the entrenched All-Star first baseman, left the team in June with a back injury, the rookie Cody Bellinger stepped in and soon found himself near the top of the National League home-run leaderboard. Chris Taylor and Justin Turner, peripheral players prior to joining L.A. in recent years, both rank in the top 10 in NL batting average. Alex Wood, who before this season was known more for his gyroscopic throwing motion than for his results, has performed ably as the team’s top pitcher while Kershaw has sat with a short-term back ailment of his own.
The Dodgers’s manager Dave Roberts—the reigning manager of the year, befitting this superlative team—maintains calm. “It is history in the making,” Roberts acknowledged recently, “But when you get back to the day-to-day, I don’t think anyone is really thinking about that.” His players might not be getting caught up in the hype, but the rest of the sports world is. The Dodgers have accomplished what the NBA’s Golden State Warriors did two seasons ago, when they broke their sport’s regular-season record of 72 wins: turned the sometimes-dull formality of playing out the schedule into an event in and of itself. Every day brings new stories about L.A.’s chances of reaching the historic mark, and the traditionally stodgy baseball media have adopted an industry-wide attitude of outright awe. A recent ESPN.com headline, “Why We Should All Root for an Astros-Dodgers World Series,” summarized the perspective of fans and journalists alike: This Los Angeles team is a movie nobody wants to end.
Monumental regular seasons do not necessarily lead to championships. Neither of the 116-win teams won the World Series, and over the past decade, the team with the best record has claimed the title only four times. All of the statistical sense-making of the 162-game baseball schedule disappears in the short series of the playoffs, where hot streaks have outsized effect and long-term steadiness doesn’t count for much. The Dodgers have their own recent history of failure to contend with, too. They have reached the playoffs in each of the past four years without advancing to the Series; their last championship came almost three decades ago, in 1988.
The Dodgers’s ultimate hope, then, is that this year’s assemblage of talent is good enough to overcome the flukiness inherent to the postseason. They aim to be not only favored but also foolproof, to have enough fallback options and contingency plans to answer any bit of bad luck with some squirreled-away parcel of virtuosity. The comparisons to the Warriors are double-edged; that record-breaking Golden State team ended up losing in the NBA Finals. So while the Dodgers are surely happy to put on a show for the remaining month and a half of the regular season—and baseball fans are thrilled to watch it—the real test will have to wait until October, when their banked wins evaporate and they have to prove themselves all over again.


The story of M.I.A.’s Kala is one of being locked out of somewhere and having a great time anyways. The London rapper Maya Arulpragasam had planned to record the follow-up to her acclaimed 2005 debut Arular in the United States largely with the legendary producer Timbaland, but she said that immigration authorities prevented her entry. It’s hard to verify why that was the case—she’d been to America before, and she’d come again—but M.I.A. has maintained it was her lyrics: “‘Oh no, she said the word ‘P.L.O.’ in a song!’” she summarized to Rolling Stone. So she traveled the globe for collaborators and venues to work in.
The tale fits all too well with the sound and the message of the album, one of the best of the new millennium. The creativity and diversity of sources across Kala, which turns 10 on August 8, not only made for an addictively fun listen that spawned a sui generis smash (“Paper Planes”). It also embraced the much-hyped rise of globalization and digital communitarianism only to execute a clever political flip, tweaking the West not as culturally supreme but rather as tragically provincial. A decade later, her all-out razzing of the concept of borders has never been more relevant.
The Rapper of Refugees
A childhood refugee from Sri Lanka who spent her adolescence in the U.K., M.I.A. first drew buzz with the rave-influenced, DIY austerity of Arular. “You’ve never heard anything like M.I.A.—the sound of jump-rope rhymes in a war zone,” wrote Rob Sheffield in his Rolling Stone review of that album. For a lot of Americans, discussing M.I.A. without echoing tropes of exoticism can be tricky, and it’s hard to miss that the “you” of that sentence is decidedly specific: the listener of the West, not steeped in the gaana and Bollywood and dancehall and other styles M.I.A had grown up with or immersed herself in. But it’s crucial to note that M.I.A., too, tends to use the second-person pronoun to address the West. In her songs there’s “we”—huge swaths of the world that are often reduced to an asterisk in the American consciousness—and there’s “you.” Focusing on the “we” serves an obvious political purpose, but also an aesthetic one, allowing for musical freshness and lyrical subversion. As she says on “20 Dollar,” “Talking about you’s such a bore, I’d rather talk about moi.”

You could hear this confrontational, cliché-conscious mindset most gloriously on the opener to Kala, “Bamboo Banga.” Over an ominous thrum of cut-up static, vehicle zooming, and hammering drums, M.I.A. coolly defined her constituency and her genre: “Somalia, Angola, Ghana, Ghana, Ghana, India, Sri Lanka, Burma, bamboo banga / This the bamboo banga.” What was so ingenious about the track was the subtle way it blossomed from deadpan manifesto to party: Her go-to producer Switch added in just a smidge of bass syncopation and the mix frothed over with sing-song samples from the Indian film composer Ilaiyaraaja. “I’m knockin’ on the doors of your hummer,” M.I.A. said, and the listener had to decide whether to open up.
Because from there, the album only got headier and more surprising as M.I.A. drew connections between cultures and identities with her own individual sense of play. The second and third tracks, “Bird Flu” and “Boyz,” were particularly brazen experiments built on thunderous, multi-sourced drum patterns and high, taunting chants: “na, na, na.” Such chants are (among other things) the verbal weapons of children, perhaps more specifically girls, and the big target of both songs were men—both rich music-industry types and slum dwellers turning in desperation to violence: “How many no-money boys are rowdy? How many start a war?” M.I.A.’s gaze was wide, and she was making an argument about how similar power dynamics exist in vastly different places and situations.
As she was making Kala, M.I.A. was so in her own headspace that she reportedly believed the frenetic “Bird Flu” and “Boyz” could be the big hits of the album rather than the bubblegummier “Paper Planes.” What those songs really turned out to be were the purest displays of her polyglot approach. “Every record I make is about equal appreciation of all cultures, unified and layered so they co-exist,” she told Fader in 2016. She added that this was why on “Boyz” she took “a 2,000 year old drum beat, which is called ‘dupping’ … to Jamaica,” and then to other countries, for musical cross-pollination. The point was peace, as she’d reiterate with the motto for her recent album A.I.M.: “Uniting People Since 2003.”
But unity, the rapper has always insisted, does not mean homogeneity, as seen in the diverse set of songwriting approaches across the album. “Jimmy” recreated a Bollywood standby with slicker production and new lyrics about a love affair with a white journalist on a “genocide tour.” “Mango Pickle Down River” remixed a novelty rap song by aboriginal children, retaining the adorability of the original but adding in a quick line about the meth problem in rural Australia—which is as, Americans know, not limited to rural Australia. The U.S. and U.K.’s enormous cultural influences were stitched in as well, with clever interpolations of indie-rock touchstones (The Clash, the Pixies, New Order, The Modern Lovers) and references to rappers like T.I. Never were the underlying politics expressed with pedantry or sentimentality—almost everything was danceable.

Could the album be made today? In 2007, “cultural appropriation” was not nearly as ubiquitous a term as it is now, and M.I.A. would soon after be at the forefront of debates of what constitutes exploitation in artistic culture-hopping: A New York Times profile would paint her as privileged tourist; a music video would be nixed by her label for parachuting into Côte d’Ivoire. Kala, though, shows she was always savvy about this subject: She gave credit where it was due, offered guests a chance to speak about their own lives, and engineered musical alliances out of an activist spirit. On “Hussel,” for example, she featured the rapper Afrikan Boy talking about the stresses of living as an undocumented immigrant: “Police, I try to avoid them / They catch me hustling they say, ‘Deport them!’”
That was by no means the only place Kala reworked rap tropes of striving and struggle for a global context. There’s something cosmically perfect about the fact that it was “Paper Planes,” of all songs, that broke out, bringing M.I.A. a top-10 hit in the U.S. and a remarkable performance on the Grammys stage while she was nine months pregnant. The verses were about hustling to forge immigration paperwork—relevant, given Kala’s creation story. Moreover, it was a cheeky tour through stereotypes about immigration and poor people. The children’s choir singing that all they want to do is bang, bang, bang and take your money was so innocent-sounding, and the persona M.I.A. inhabited was so clearly a riff on gangsta rap, that it’s hard to imagine anyone missing the joke. But the gunshots got censored, some listeners were offended, and, in the way of great disruptive earworms, it entered longterm radio rotation.
On its 10th birthday, Kala feels newly relevant amid global political currents trending toward isolationism—and due to enduring refugee crises in many of the places that M.I.A. continues to represent in her music. The total entertainment value of the album attests to the vibrancy and humanity of what M.I.A. termed, in one standout track, the “World Town” that travel bans and border walls seek to shut out. As importantly, Kala’s loud celebration of people that have been categorized as “other” spoke up for values that the West likes to think aren’t actually foreign to it. In the acknowledgements to Kala, M.I.A. wrote, “I’d especially like to thank who ever said ‘I’m a citizen of the world and my religion is to do good.’” The person she was paraphrasing was Thomas Paine.


This post reveals plot points for the finale of The Bachelorette Season 13.
Women are often told to settle. For just a little less money. A little less respect. A little less space in the world. The tellings aren’t generally meant unkindly—they’re meant more as realistic reflections of the world and what it is—but they tend to accumulate over time, injecting themselves into women’s understandings of themselves and the places they occupy in their careers, in their finances, and perhaps especially in their romantic relationships. American pop culture sells soaring ideas about romance and soulmates and Happilys Ever After. It whispers, all the while: “Settle, though. Just a little.”
Did Rachel Lindsay settle? When she chose her fiancé during the finale of her season of The Bachelorette on Monday, did she, as so many viewers suggested, compromise her desires? Or did she, instead, take a stand for the validity of those desires?
The Bachelorette and the Empty Redemptions of Reality TV
It went, basically, like this: After Rachel eliminated Eric Bigger from the final three men vying for her heart, her choice came down to Peter Kraus, who was a fan favorite, and Bryan Abasolo, who was not. Peter leveled with her: He takes marriage seriously. He wanted to propose to someone once, and only once. He didn’t feel ready to make that proposal to Rachel—not because he didn’t love her, but because he simply needed more time to be sure he was ready for such a commitment.
Bryan, on the other hand, was very much ready: To plan a life with Rachel, geography (she lives in Dallas; he lives in Miami) be damned. To sit down with Neil Lane (yes! the man himself!) and pick out an approximately 5,000-carat ring. And then to use that ring as a sparkling prop when he, in Bachelorette parlance, “got down on one knee.”
So while Monday’s finale hewed to the contours that any such finale will—a high-stakes choice, edited for maximum drama—this one had a distinct spin to it, one that was largely about the collision between expectations and reality: Rachel wasn’t choosing, in the end, between two men who were planning to propose to her. She was instead (at least according to the editing that will make any season of The Bachelorette what it is) making a choice between getting engaged and not getting engaged. Rachel, from the beginning, had said that she wanted to be engaged by the show’s conclusion. Bryan could give her that. Peter could not.
She chose Bryan.
In one way, yes, it was a disappointment. Rachel, after all, is an especially great Bachelorette. She is especially smart. She is especially successful in her career. She is especially funny. She is especially charismatic. She is especially kind. And Bryan is … fine. He had received Rachel’s First Impression rose, certainly, and had chemistry with Rachel from the beginning that has only grown. But, again, the stakes here weren’t presented as matters of chemistry. They were presented, by the show itself, as matters of practicality. Many viewers, because of that, saw her choice as an especially sad kind of victory: the workings of the head over the hopings of the heart. The objection wasn’t just that Bryan had previously been on another reality show—a red flag, Right Reasons-wise. It was also that he, per The Bachelorette’s setup, was not so much the soul mate as the rebound guy. And it was also that Rachel, who has always seemed too good for this show, once again seemed to deserve better.
As one viewer put it: “Rachel was clearly in love with Peter. Bryan was runner-up. She chose him because he was willing to give her a ring … she should have chosen true love over a ring.”
You could also read Rachel’s choice, though, in the opposite way: as an outcome worth celebrating. And not just because it was Rachel’s choice, which should perhaps in itself be the end of the discussion. Rachel also, after all, stuck to her guns: She refused to compromise her desires. She refused to settle. She took a long history—women, being made to settle; women of color, in particular, being made to settle—and looked it in the eyes and said, “Not today.” She had wanted to be proposed to (The Bachelorette is a show that will give a woman her pick of men to date, but that cannot envision her being the one to pop the question)—and she got, in the end, exactly what she wanted.
Which is also to say that, on national television, before an audience of millions, Rachel Lindsay did something mildly, and yet notably, subversive: She articulated a desire and then made choices to ensure that the desire was met. She was ready to settle down, she said from the beginning; at this point, it seems, that is precisely what she will do. You may not love the guy she is settling down with, but she is not at all, in that sense, settling.
The Bachelorette, for everything else it is about, is also a show about belief—in love, in marriage, in the idea that one wayward soul can find its way to another with the help of hot tubs and helicopters and sun-drenched Spanish vineyards. There has always been, in its machinations, a note of Kierkegaard: This is a show that believes, perhaps more than anything else, in leaps of faith. Many of the dates The Bachelorette sets up for its couples involve, yes, literal jumps: skydiving, cliff-jumping, plunges from yachts into sparkling Caribbean seas. But the show’s workings themselves—meet on national television, date on national television, get engaged on national television, go on to have a fulfilling and stable marriage—also require a certain amount of faith-leaping. They require a couple to trust wholly in the process, and in The Bachelor franchise’s highly produced approach to love itself; otherwise, the whole thing falls apart.
Rachel’s choice in the finale was an especially bold distillation of that approach—and another way in which Rachel chose not to settle. Peter, after all, had broken that faith; he had, in questioning the speed of the engagement, articulated doubt about the mechanics of the show itself. He had, in the show’s conception, lost faith in the process. Rachel, however, had not. She didn’t merely, in that sense, choose Bryan; she also chose faith—in reality television, in the Bachelorette producers, in the kind of love that can conquer everything else.
On Tuesday morning, she and Bryan appeared together on ABC’s Live with Kelly and Ryan. Ryan Seacrest read her the viewer letter suggesting that “she chose [Bryan] because he was willing to give her a ring.”
“It’s so funny to me,” Rachel replied. “I’ve never been one to settle or to be desperate for anything … that’s why I was 32 and still single. So, like, when people say things like that, like Bryan was runner-up, I’m like, no, I think you can clearly see that I have a lot of love for Bryan. I never would have just chosen a ring.”
She added: “I chose Bryan for a reason. Peter had his chance.”


Part of the pleasure of watching Wet Hot American Summer: First Day of Camp, the 2015 prequel series to David Wain’s cult comedy film, was the sheer absurdity of its existence. A parody of the endless march of revivals and off-brand sequels thrown at audiences, the show took the cast of comic actors who played a bunch of teenagers in 2001 (when they were already too old for the part), brought them all back 14 years later, and had them play even younger versions of themselves. The audacity of First Day of Camp was more than enough to make the whole endeavor, which aired over eight episodes on Netflix, worthwhile.
Now, the entire cast (with one notable exception) has reunited again for another eight-episode Netflix series, Wet Hot American Summer: Ten Years Later, a sequel to the original film that now has its ensemble playing their 2001 characters as 10 years older, placing them somewhere in their mid-20s. It’s still ridiculous—stars like Elizabeth Banks, Paul Rudd, Michael Showalter, and Amy Poehler are all in their 40s now—but the absurdity is less pronounced. Where First Day of Camp was concerned with a delightfully convoluted narrative designed to set up the events of the original film, Ten Years Later is more free to pursue whatever it wants. But that freedom ends up feeling like a burden.
Wet Hot American Summer’s Wild, Triumphant Return
There’s no real reason for these spinoff TV shows to exist, after all. The original Wet Hot American Summer is the perfect kind of slow-burning comedy favorite, a flop upon release that built up a following because of its stars (many of whom went on to greater fame), its moments of surrealism, and its endlessly quotable script. Sequels to such movies are often ill-advised, too concerned with fan service or topping the best moments of the previous entry to give audiences anything unique (Anchorman 2 comes to mind). But First Day of Camp worked by satirizing those sequel tropes and making each one all the more hilarious because of the advanced age of its cast of “teenagers.”
The first problem with Ten Years Later, which debuted on Netflix last Friday, is that it’s actually inspired by a throwaway joke in the original film, where the counselor friends pledge to all hang out at their beloved Camp Firewood 10 years on and see how they’ve grown up. Because there’s a more mundane reason for this show to exist, the ridiculousness—and humor—is immediately dialed back. More problematic, though, is the simple fact that teenagers are inherently foolish, amusing characters; as archetypes, 20-somethings are far less exciting.
Where Wet Hot American Summer and its prequel series mocked the bawdy sex comedies of the early ’80s, Ten Years Later is set in 1991, and so the creators Wain and Showalter are now aiming to parody the more sedate interpersonal dramedies of that era, such as The Big Chill, Singles, and St. Elmo’s Fire. Gone are dumb adolescent antics; replacing them are jokes about careerism, the fear of settling down, and the perils of being young parents.
It’s as staid as it sounds, and the show isn’t helped by the fact that many jokes referencing the movie have only grown more stale. So instead, Wain and Showalter (who both play multiple roles in the show) lump in a nutty subplot involving former president Ronald Reagan, current president George H.W. Bush, and a nuclear bomb, just to give the show a narrative spine. Showalter’s performance as Reagan, delivered behind heavy makeup, remains a blast, but even that is a rehash from First Day of Camp, where he first did it.
There’s also the return of the preppy rivals at Camp Tiger Claw (including Josh Charles, Kristen Wiig, and Rich Sommer), the washed-up rock god Eric (Chris Pine), and the dueling personalities of chefs Gene and Jonas (both played by Christopher Meloni), but the appearances are all surprises from the first series that, again, feel diminished. New additions to the cast like Mark Feuerstein (who plays another counselor, his presence explained through intentionally awkward inserts of him in archive footage) and Alyssa Milano (portraying a homicidal babysitter à la The Hand That Rocks the Cradle) are largely superfluous.
It’s still fun to see the stacked original cast of the show return for another go-round: Everyone, from Rudd to Poehler to Janeane Garofalo and Michael Ian Black, gets at least a couple of memorable scenes to play. The only missing cast member is mega-star Bradley Cooper, who showed up for First Day of Camp. He’s been replaced by Adam Scott, who is perfectly game but also ends up feeling unnecessary—it doesn’t help that Scott is part of the season’s worst storyline, the one involving Milano’s character.
Ten Years Later will appeal to fans who just want to see everyone get back together, only this time dressed in goofy ’90s outfits. But those viewers shouldn’t expect much else. For their part, Showalter and Wain remain among the funniest comic talents working today—Showalter directed The Big Sick this year, and Wain was one of the minds behind the incredible TV show Childrens Hospital. But it’s clear that, for all the goodwill generated by the original movie, the Wet Hot well has now officially run dry.


My first book was not what I dreamed it would be. I started writing professionally when I was in my late 20s, and while I worked my way up from a freelance music journalist to being an editor at The A.V. Club, the non-satirical wing of The Onion, I had one goal: to use all that experience as a springboard toward becoming an author. I had it all mapped out: After years of sacrifice and honing my craft, I would make my triumphant debut, with a book that might not become a bestseller but that’d be respected for its stunning originality and insight into the human condition.
Instead, my first book was The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook. Yes, that Captain Jack Sparrow. As played by Johnny Depp. From The Pirates of the Caribbean movies. Based not on an ancient myth or literary archetype, but on a Disney ride. Writing a media tie-in, as works officially attached to other properties are known, wasn’t the start I had in mind. But as many professional authors will attest, the path to publication is rarely the expected one. And my experience writing about the famed Disney pirate—as well as my second media tie-in, a project for the Goosebumps movie—made me think twice about my preconceptions about work-for-hire books. Not to mention those who make them.
The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook, which was published in 2011, came about in a circuitous way. The year before, I had left the The A.V. Club to freelance full-time and focus on finishing my first book. One day, a magazine editor of mine said he was taking a job at Quirk Books, the publisher infamous for its mashup novels, notably Seth Grahame-Smith’s Pride and Prejudice and Zombies. The editor asked, almost offhandedly, if I’d be interested in pitching him some book ideas.
I was. I threw everything I could against his wall; none of it stuck, but it seemed only a matter of time before we worked out a deal. Early on, I realized how lucky I was. Aspiring authors usually have to complete an entire novel draft or a lengthy nonfiction book proposal before approaching an editor—usually through an agent, which is another laborious step. Yet here I was, riffing with an editor who was helping me sculpt my crazy concepts into something suitable for his publisher.
Then, the editor sent me a proposal that changed my life: Would I want to write a tie-in book for On Stranger Tides, the upcoming fourth installment of Disney’s Pirates of the Caribbean franchise? The catch: The book had to be done in five weeks. Rather than adapting the film, I’d produce a tongue-in-cheek guide to piracy, a mix of real-life lore and the magical mythos of the movies.
I was a fan of pirates, of fantasy, and of the films themselves. The deadline would be brutal, but I was trying to make a leap into book-writing, and this was a book, period. I said yes. The fact that I was a near-starving writer, and the paycheck was several thousand dollars, didn’t hurt. So I signed the contract, pulled out my pirate-history books, cued up the first three Pirates of the Caribbean DVDs, and dove in.
Because The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook was written in the first person, I had to master the character’s salty, anachronistic turns of phase. Through them, I came to more deeply appreciate Jack. He may not be one of fiction’s most profound antiheroes, but he’s every inch the Jungian archetype of the trickster: the mischievous imp who disrupts social norms and often reason itself. I snuck that into the Handbook. I even went a little meta: “Nothing is less dignified,” I wrote, “than an otherwise lusty pirate with his or her nose stuck in a book. Needless to say, never brag about having read this one.” For my own amusement, I was also toying with the perception—sadly widespread—that writing media tie-ins is beneath the dignity of a respectable author.
Tie-in books are a huge and largely unheralded part of the publishing industry, sold everywhere from Barnes & Noble and Amazon to drugstores and theme-park gift shops. Before I wrote a media tie-in, I had no idea of the scale of the business. The Star Wars novel series began in 1976—the novelization of the first movie actually predated the 1977 cinematic release—and today boasts more than 125 millions copies in print. It’s been estimated that 1 to 2 percent of the audience of any given film, TV show, or game will buy a tie-in book related to that media property. If that audience is, say, 10 million strong, a tie-in book might sell 100,000 to 200,000 copies.
The writer Max Allan Collins did even better. His first tie-in novel, Dick Tracy—a novelization of the 1990 film—sold “a million copies or so,” he told me. Before that, he’d been a crime novelist and comic-book writer who also scripted the Dick Tracy newspaper strip. Collins was the obvious choice to write the tie-in, which sold spectacularly in the wake of film’s success.
Yet Collins realized that his novelization, despite being the biggest seller of his career by a mile, wouldn’t win him many accolades. “Because you are using someone else’s ideas, your contribution is obviously secondary,” Collins said. Since Dick Tracy, he’s novelized dozens of TV shows and movies including G.I. Joe, The X-Files, The Mummy, CSI: Miami, and Saving Private Ryan. “But the criticism comes from people who haven’t had to write one. It’s tough. Movies and novels are hugely different forms of narrative—the novel is interior, the film exterior.”
Collins co-founded the International Association of Media Tie-In Writers (IAMTW), for which he serves as president, to help promote the craft and its practitioners. Sometimes they’re established authors. Other times they’re newbies like me. There’s no system to scoring tie-in gigs: It’s a combination of luck, chops, and simply putting yourself out there. Some tie-in writers end up concentrating on that for their entire careers, making a name for themselves in that sphere. Many others write a couple tie-in books then move on as soon as the opportunity arises, hoping their name doesn’t become too closely associated with that line of work—like an up-and-coming actor trying to avoid being typecast as
an unsavory character.
I didn’t have that concern. When Quirk asked me if I wanted The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook to be published under a pseudonym, my answer came instantly: No way. If I poured myself into a book, no matter what it was, I wanted my name on it. I also grew up in an unstable household where every penny mattered. Turning up my nose at tie-in work, or disguising the fact that I’d done it, was a privilege I didn’t feel I had.
IAMTW’s vice-president, Lee Goldberg—himself a veteran of the trade—told me, “For decades, tie-in writers were looked upon as miserable, talentless hacks and their work just a step above porn. Which is strange, since the publishing industry aggressively seeks tie-in projects, and editors only hire writers they trust, who they know can deliver strong manuscripts under tight deadlines and often onerous creative restrictions.”
I came across a few of those restrictions while writing The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook. The book was to be heavily illustrated, and I had to write with that in mind—yet I had no real idea how the art would mesh with the text. I was required to work in a few details about On Stranger Tides, but I wasn’t given a script, just a vague list of some elements that would appear. On top of it all, Disney had to sign off on my interpretation of Jack each step of the way. Still, these challenges forced me to be more adaptable and think even more quickly on my feet—skills that, coincidentally, I was ascribing to Captain Jack.
I tackled another trickster for my second media tie-in: Slappy, the devilish ventriloquist’s dummy from R.L. Stine’s Goosebumps series. The book was titled Slappy’s Revenge: Twisted Tricks From the World’s Smartest Dummy, and it was published by Scholastic in conjunction with the big-screen adaptation of Goosebumps in 2015. I undertook the project with a lot more confidence. Not only had I earned my stripes with The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook, but Quirk had also published my own original novel, the political satire Taft 2012. I had a mere three weeks to write Slappy’s Revenge, but the pay was comparable to what I’d made on both the Handbook and Taft 2012.
As with Jack, I got to slip into the persona of Slappy. This time I was given the script for the film, for which I had to sign a nondisclosure agreement, as well as hundreds of stills to help me visualize the characters and creatures. Again, I wasn’t writing an adaptation; instead I had to create a bunch of Goosebumps-related riddles, parodies, and puns. As it turned out, Slappy’s favorite movie was Frying Nemo. (You may groan.) Though the assignment was fun, all these moving parts had to be linked by a narrative that resolved itself by the final page. My solution was to have Slappy smash the fourth wall and speak directly to the reader—the Sesame Street classic The Monster at the End of This Book was in the back of my mind—before handing the sharp-tongued dummy his comeuppance.
Unlike original books, tie-ins are work-for-hire gigs. That means they don’t usually pay royalties—so if the project ends up being wildly successful, the author doesn’t receive a share of each unit moved, only the money that was paid upfront. But that was fine with me. I didn’t create these megalithic properties; I was simply being allowed to play around in someone else’s world and get paid well for it. The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook and Slappy’s Revenge allowed me to dig myself out of the hole I’d gotten stuck in as a freelancer, where all my time and energy was spent on an exhausting treadmill of pitching and filing articles at a breakneck pace. They bought me the chance to breathe for a minute and finally work on my original, book-length projects.
The writer Wendy N. Wagner has had her own juggling act. Her first original novel, An Oath of Dogs, was published in July by Angry Robot, but she got her start writing media tie-ins. Skinwalkers and Starspawn were both set in the fantasy world of Pathfinder, the popular role-playing game. “I was a little worried about getting pigeonholed. Writing tie-ins is a fun challenge, but I really wanted to be able to create my own worlds and write by my own rules. I didn’t want people to think I was just this word-producing machine that spat out made-to-order adventures for the highest bidder,” she told me.
The income was worth it. “I got paid $5,000 for each of my novels,” Wagner said, “which in science fiction and fantasy is sort of a small but reasonable entry-level advance. Those books finished paying off my daughter’s braces, which was awesome. They were a good, reliable paycheck that always came on time, and I can’t say that about writing short fiction.”
She even found pride in helping to build the game’s fictional, collaborative world. “People read my books because they loved Pathfinder. They might not have even noticed who wrote those books. But there are fans out there playing their own Pathfinder games that use monsters that I helped envision,” Wagner said. “Wendy N. Wagner may not matter to those people, but what I created is a part of their weekend. It’s a part of their lives. And that’s pretty neato, you know?”
My own time in the media tie-in industry had at least one unexpected benefit: For the first time, my young niece Hazel took notice of what her Uncle Jason did for a living. She proudly showed my Pirates of the Caribbean and Goosebumps books to her friends, who were duly impressed. I even got to speak to her fourth-grade class about how to become a writer—which ended up being one of the most inspiring moments of my professional life. There’s nothing like having 9-year-olds earnestly ask, “What exactly is your self-editing process?” to reaffirm your faith in humanity.
Last year I spoke on a panel about tie-ins at the World Science Fiction Convention. One question kept popping up: How does one break into this peculiar wing of the business? The inquiry surprised me. The audience members weren’t necessarily fans of Slappy or Captain Jack Sparrow, as I’d expected. They were aspiring tie-in writers, as unglamorous as that may be in the literary world. Many of them already wrote fan-fiction; to them, tie-ins were a step up, not down.
The experience made me reconsider my own work. Yes, I started taking tie-in jobs to make a buck, to buy myself time to write my own books. But by the time I started working on my second tie-in project, I had already realized how much creativity can go into even the most commercially driven writing. I had jokingly told the readers of The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook not to brag about having read it. Finally, though, I’d learned that maybe it was okay—at least once in a while— to brag about having written it.


This post contains spoilers through the most recent episode of Game of Thrones, “The Spoils of War.”
It’s no secret that dragons have a deeper meaning on Game of Thrones. George R.R. Martin has specifically referred to them as “the nuclear deterrent.” Timothy Westmyer, a former research and program assistant at George Washington University, has argued in the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists that dragons are “living, fire-breathing metaphors for nuclear weapons,” and that the series is deliberate in using dragons as a warning about the “inherent dangers” and the responsibility that comes with possessing and wielding such power.
But in the most recent episode of the HBO show, “The Spoils of War,” Game of Thrones offered its most explicit portrayal yet of the carnage dragons can cause. In the episode’s climactic final sequence, Daenerys accompanied the Dothraki in a two-pronged attack on the Lannister and Tarly armies, flying Drogon over the troops and incinerating their supplies (and most of their soldiers). The resulting damage was graphic, and instantaneous. Some men were reduced to ashes in seconds, while others burned to death more slowly, screaming in agony. One soldier writhed in pain while the skin seemed to peel off his face. Both Jaime and Tyrion Lannister, watching from different vantage points, were visibly horrified by the spectacle.
Game of Thrones: Queen of the Ashes
Which is the whole point. Daenerys has weapons that should, by rights, make her the most powerful person in the Seven Kingdoms. But she’s hampered, ironically, by the fact that her dragons are so exponentially more dangerous than any other force on the show. (Wildfire, which both Tyrion and Cersei have deployed in the past, and which has similarly gruesome results, is notoriously unstable and hard to control. It’s been likened in the past to napalm, which the U.S. infamously deployed in the Vietnam War, and which was outlawed by the United Nations in 1980.)
Dragons, like nukes, have the capacity to inflict maximum casualties with minimal effort—something President Harry Truman described as “a rain of ruin from the air, the like of which has never been seen on this earth.” But the cost of such weapons is that they’re so effective they can almost never be used. As Jon Snow said to Dany before she set off with Drogon, she’s gathered her armies by wielding compassion, not brute force. If she uses her dragons “to melt castles and burn cities,” she’s no different from any other power-hungry zealot, and she sacrifices the ethical compass—the soft power—that’s gotten her this far.
That doesn’t mean she’s afraid to deploy them in battle, as was proved in “The Spoils of War.” And if Jaime survives, his account of witnessing dragons in action will bolster how seriously the Lannisters take Daenerys as an enemy. But there’s another topical aspect to the catch-22 of her nuclear option. Possessing such powerful weapons only works as a deterrent to war if your enemies are similarly appalled by the cost of using them, and Cersei in particular seems unlikely to shed tears for civilians. As Westmyer writes,
Optimists who welcome nuclear weapons as a stabilizing influence insist that by their very nature, these arms cause rational leaders of stable regimes to maintain strict control over their state’s arsenals and moderate their behavior—or risk retaliation. That prompts the question: What happens when nuclear weapons are in the hands of irrational leaders, less than stable countries, or non-state actors? Fortunately for Westeros, its “Mad King” had no dragons at his disposal. “Burn them all,” he snarled while ordering his city be set ablaze rather than surrender—showing how retaliatory threats mean little to someone bent on suicidal violence.
In other words, both dragons and nuclear weapons offer the ability to inflict near-total obliteration, and as such they become weapons that are extremely hard to wield. Mark Bowden, in his July/August Atlantic cover story on North Korea, wrote that “there are no good options” when you’re dealing with the threat of nuclear warfare. Daenerys, like the United States, has the ability to destroy everything and everyone that stands between her and power, but if her ultimate goal is peace, burning down the Seven Kingdoms isn’t an ideal tactic.
As Martin said in 2011, the Dragon Queen is the only person in Westeros who has the nuclear option at her disposal, but that doesn’t make her omnipotent. “Power is more subtle than that,” he explained. “You can have the power to destroy, but it doesn’t give you the power to reform, or improve, or build.” To co-opt the title of my colleagues’ Game of Thrones roundtable this week, what’s the upside in being queen of the ashes?


Every week for the seventh season of Game of Thrones, three Atlantic staffers will discuss new episodes of the HBO drama. Because no screeners were made available to critics in advance this year, we’ll be posting our thoughts in installments.
Lenika Cruz: Is your heart still pounding? Even if you had managed to keep yourself spoiler-free by avoiding the pesky headlines and articles about last week’s HBO leak, you may have sensed from the dramatic, martial tone of the “previously on” that this episode, “The Spoils of War,” was going to a be a doozy. After losing her first two battles—and her three principal Westerosi allies—Daenerys Targaryen finally got to do things the Mother of Dragons way: by saddling up on Drogon, rallying the Dothraki, and ambushing the Lannister and Tarly armies after their victory at Highgarden. Following the Crown’s successful campaign last week, the Tyrell gold is now secure inside King’s Landing, allowing the Lannisters to (finally) live up to their unofficial house words and repay their debt to the Iron Bank. But Dany, too, made good on her own house’s promise in the closing minutes of the episode, delivering a brutal helping of “Fire and Blood” in the first truly large-scale battle of the season so far.
Her scorched-earth campaign was a visceral reminder of the kind of internal conflict viewers might continue to face as storylines converge and characters’ loyalties place them on opposite sides. “Yeahhh!!!” I couldn’t help but cheer when I heard the hoofbeats and the frantic whooping of the Dothraki, as Cersei’s soldiers prepared, at last, to see the foreign horde they’d heard so much about. “Woooo!!!” I yelled, as Drogon fire-breathed all over the Lannister/Tarly troops—but only after I was certain Bronn and Jaime were on the other side of the battlefield. “Garggnnbugghhh!!” I gurgled when Drogon and Dany charged at Bronn and his scorpion, and then when Jaime charged at them with his spear.
Game of Thrones: All the Queens’ Men
The episode’s director, Matt Shakman, did a fantastic job with this sequence, concocting a vision of senseless slaughter roughly as hellish as the one from last year’s “Battle of the Bastards,” while adding in some gruesome new details. The men burning alive inside their armor, the columns of ash that were once soldiers crumbling in the wind, the thick choke of dark gray smoke whipping up from the flames, horses getting their (ugh) legs chopped off—all of it was far more vivid than the Lannister/Euron Greyjoy wins of previous weeks. And it ended with the fates of two fan favorites—Jaime and Drogon—in question (though I can’t imagine we’ve said goodbye to either already).
Dany, it seems, got the push she needed to commit to this plan from her new friend-prisoner-burgeoning love interest-ally-enemy-nephew-adviser Jon Snow. “The people who follow you know that you made something impossible happen,” he told her. “Maybe that helps them believe that you can make other impossible things happen.” (Cut to Davos, who made the “Hmmm, Jon, you sure you’re talking about Daenerys?” face the rest of us were probably making.) I’m relieved we don’t have to sit through hours of Dany questioning Jon’s character and motives, but she’s still begun to trust him surprisingly quickly, already asking him for strategy advice and disappearing into caves with him (though, she may not have been totally convinced Jon didn’t just do those drawings himself). But Jon, of course, had a point—one the show keeps trying to underscore by tossing in scenes like the one with Missandei, reminding us that for all of Dany’s obsession with knee-bending, she’s still a leader whose followers stand by her side more out of love and choice than duty or because of her birthright.
Dany’s leadership model is the kind you could imagine someone like Sansa—who’s cunning, who’s endured so much, who’s keen to do the actual work of ruling—emulating if given the chance. It was while Sansa was doing this work that Arya came home, after being away from Winterfell longer than all her siblings. I’m still not tired of these Stark reunions, but credit to the show for playing around with the emotional beats and making Arya’s return feel distinct from the previous ones. I can’t overstate how rewarding it was to see Arya and Sansa in the same room together again, even if their reconnection was less overtly sentimental than the Jon-Sansa one in last year’s “Home.” (Their wonderful exchange: “It’s a long story. I imagine yours is, too.” “Yes, not a very pleasant one.” “Mine neither. But our stories aren’t over yet.” “No, they’re not.”) I’m a little nervous about three living Starks being back together again, but for now I’ll revel in the fact that we got a brilliant fight scene between Arya and Brienne that was about as effective a pitch for a new spinoff (The Lady of Tarth and No One?) as you could hope for.
In the background, of course, doing everything but literally twirling his mustache and cackling maniacally, is the chaos-loving, ladder-climbing Littlefinger. This episode resurfaced one of the big remaining whodunnits from the show’s first season—who hired an assassin to kill a comatose Bran with a Valyrian steel dagger and why?—but I’ll admit not being able to fully see the contours of Petyr Baelish’s plan quite yet. All I can think is that Bran, who has now fully justified to me his strange behavior from last week, must know more about what Littlefinger’s going to do and what he has already done, even if he’s not in the position to change what’s destined to happen. Megan and Spencer, what do you think Littlefinger is up to? How did the big battle play out for you? And, crucially, if Jaime’s still alive, will he ever get Rickard—I mean Rickon—I mean, Dickon’s name right?
Megan Garber: Littlefinger! Ugh, Littlefinger. Mostly I think he is up to weirding me out in a way that I cannot adequately articulate even though I am a professional writer … but I’m with you, Lenika, beyond that I really don’t know—as I have never quite known—what his endgame is. And I actually think one of the canniest decisions the show’s producers have made was to make Littlefinger, in particular, such a mystery: to emphasize his inscrutability, to give him motivations that are so very unclear and mannerisms that are at once so proper and so decidedly improper. (Even his hair refuses to be made sense of: While the sides are middle-aged gray, the top hints that a Westerosi Rite-Aid managed to smuggle in some boxes of Just for Men®.) But I also think that Baelish as such a walking contradiction is, at least as far as the narrative stuff goes, extremely effective: In addition to being an agent of chaos, he’s also an agent of creepiness ... and he spreads the creepy all around, infusing it into every scene he’s in. He is unsettling, in every sense. He’s destabilizing. He’s like a human miasma. An excessively polite miasma.
So, yeah, let’s move on to something much more pleasant than Littlefinger: this episode’s fiery, gory battle. Traditionally, there’s been something about such a clash that has seemed to bring out Game of Thrones’s most cinematic impulses: the interpersonal feuds, and the assorted human pettinesses, and the philosophical differences about the purpose of power, all distilled down to a matter of moments, all resolved with swords and arrows and blood. The battle scenes, I have to admit, have in recent seasons gotten a little special effects-happy for my taste—I half-expected Jason Bourne to emerge at triple speed from behind a turret or something during the taking of Casterly Rock—but I thought this battle was effective particularly in its restraint: It had an intimacy to it, even in its scale. It was horrifying, in new ways. It managed to feel epic and visceral at the same time.
Which is also to say that I was totally with you, Lenika, on the “Garggnnbugghhh!!” And one of the things that drew me in, in particular, was the way the scenes—and the cameras that give them life—played with point of view: At one moment, we’re soaring with Dany on Drogon’s back, elevated over the chaos and carnage of the battle below. And the next we’re with Bronn, on the ground, in the midst of the tumult. And, actually, we’re more than just with him. Bronn, during the battle, was often shot from just below—the camera seemed to hover at the height of his waist—which emphasized this difference of perspective, and also destabilized the scene as it played out, and also brought an exceptionally literal spin to the idea of “ground truth.”
The cinematography here reminded me, in a strange (but maybe sort of fitting?) way, of Dunkirk—not just the dead-men-walking ideas at play in the martial elements of the skirmish, but also in the way the action was divided: Air as one battlefield—as one domain—and Land as another. And that division, the one made so clear with land-Bronn and air-Dany, was especially appropriate given the stakes of the battle. This wasn’t, after all, just a clash of militaries; it was a clash of philosophies. It was, very broadly, the Lannisters and their gold versus the Targaryen and her principles. It wasn’t right versus wrong—Game of Thrones is much more complicated than that—but it was definitely, in ways both literal and more figurative, “high” versus “low.”
And so is the episode itself. “The Spoils of War,” like Game of Thrones overall, pays a lot of attention to vision, and to ideas of perspective more broadly. (“You came home,” Bran reminds Arya, just after the two have been reunited—“I saw you at the crossroads.” She is taken aback. “You saw me?” she asks. “I see quite a lot now,” he replies.) There are Jon and Davos, descending the massive, stone staircase at Dragonstone—their brief scene shot from behind, at a sweeping distance, conveying both their elevation and their descent. There are Sansa and Littlefinger, gazing down at Arya and Brienne as the two fight. The girl finally bests the woman, and the scene concludes with a shot from Brienne’s point of view: Brienne and, with her, the viewer, is looking down at Arya. Arya is looking back at her, triumphant. She is looking triumphantly, by extension, at us.
And that’s more than a matter, I think, of clever camerawork. The emphasis on perspective in “The Spoils of War” also brings to the fore one of the longest-running interests of Game of Thrones: identity. What makes someone who they are. What changes a person into someone else. Arya “A Girl Has No Name” Stark, Theon “Reek” Greyjoy, Jon “But Who Is His Mother Really” Snow, Melisandre “The Red Woman” Magiclady, Tyrion “of House Lannister but Also Totally Not of House Lannister” Lannister. Grey Worm, who chooses the name that had been assigned to him. Oh, and also Daenerys “The First of Her Name, the Unburnt, Queen of Meereen, Queen of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Khaleesi of the Great Grass Sea, Breaker of Chains, and Mother of Dragons” Targaryen.
Do names matter? Do titles? To what extent do the world’s expectations of someone shape the person that someone becomes? To what extent can experience—can other people—do that shaping? Is Theon Greyjoy, after everything, still Theon Greyjoy? Is he Reek? Is he anything, anymore? Those types of questions emerged with a renewed sense of urgency in “The Spoils of War.” Bran informs Meera that “I’m not Bran—not anymore.” Davos, attempting to correct Missandei’s reference to “Lord Snow,” insists that he isn’t a lord. But: “King Snow?” Davos asks. “Isn’t it?” He pauses. “No, that doesn’t sound right. King Jon?” Arya, the prodigal daughter, raises her eyebrow when a distinctly unimpressed Winterfellian guard informs her that “Arya Stark is dead.” (He adds: “Best fuck off.”) But then! Like you suggested, Lenika, when Arya is reunited, after so long, with Sansa, the show hints that she might be becoming herself again. “Finally, a girl is no one,” Jaqen H’ghar had told her, last season. “A girl is Arya Stark of Winterfell,” she had corrected him. As she laughs with Sansa, that finally begins to feel true.
But the biggest moment, I thought, in a show that loves nothing better than revealing a character to be something other than what they seem, belonged to Bronn. Bronn starts “The Spoils of War” seeming to be interested in those spoils in the most literal way possible (“We pay our debts,” Jaime insists to him; “Right—just not to me,” Bronn complains). In battle, however, he proves himself to be much more principled—or at least much more self-sacrificing—than he had allowed himself to suggest before. Bronn, the … hero? Bronn, the savior? The scene in which the sellsword sees a fallen bag of gold, glinting amid all the blood and mud and chaos, and then must choose between the money and the valor was a taaaaad on the nose, I thought—a little too Walter Donovan in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade—but, still, it made its point: Bronn, given a choice between selfishness and selflessness, ended up choosing … wisely. At least at this moment. At least for now.
Spencer Kornhaber: The Dunkirk reference you used, Megan, is weirdly fitting—this battle was defined by asymmetrical firepower and total terror, rather than clichés of bravery. But real-world comparisons only get you so far here. In HBO’s after-the-episode segment, D.B. Weiss pointed out that the dragons factor meant the writers couldn’t quite draw from military history in the way that they normally do when crafting battles. Instead they imagined someone bringing an F16 to the Middle Ages. They didn’t just brainstorm the practical implications of napalming soldiers—they nailed the psychological disorientation that would have met a new and supernatural weapon of war.
That disorientation was certainly apparent in Jaime Lannister. One of the most famed fighters and military commanders in all of the land sat dumbstruck for much of the conflict, craning his neck and knotting his eyebrows and barking some obvious orders and not doing much else. Why didn’t he think to get someone behind the anti-dragon weaponry until well after Drogon arrived? My first, and possibly correct, impulse was to chalk the delay up as a schlocky move on the show’s part to ratchet up drama. But then again, it’s believable Jaime might be mentally paralyzed in the circumstances—how would you react to a dragon?
Surely adding to Jaime’s inner turmoil was a sense of déjà vu as a Targaryen torched human flesh before his eyes. Jaime’s life, after all, was cleaved by his decision to kill Daenerys’s father rather than let him incinerate House Lannister and the people of King’s Landing. The way he eventually moved from horrified spectator to decisive actor by charging at Dany made me think of his bathhouse testimony to Brienne in Season 3. To be sure, riding at Daenerys isn’t oathbreaking—it’s classic, if foolhardy, battlefield heroism. But the face-off was still a callback, a reminder of Jaime’s biography and Daenerys’s tainted parentage.
Never one to pass up a twist, Thrones decided to end the episode with Jaime’s life endangered not by fire but by water, and what had seemed like a deus-ex-machina save may actually have consigned him to the awful fate of drowning within his armor. But I’d bet on someone pulling from the depths, alive, in next week’s episode. There’s just so much juicy narrative potential still to be activated with Jaime—he’s still got to deliver Olenna’s confession about Joffrey to Cersei, for example. Then again, viewers know well that seemingly essential characters can be snuffed out at any time. If this is the end of Jaime’s arc, his history with the Targaryens would give it a mild sense of poetry.
So would the idea of him being dragged down by his golden hand. Much of the rest of the episode centered around characters negotiating—and rejecting—the system of lordly hierarchy that has defined Westeros for ages. Megan, you listed many of the examples of this in your discussion of Thrones’s interest in character change. We also has such dualities as Sansa insisting on being called Lady Stark as Brienne waved away such a title, Bronn playing up his working-class background when razzing the nervous noble Dickon Tarly, and Jon explaining his last name to Missandei, who emphasized that she followed Daenerys not because of heritage but because of merit.
Jon’s suspiciously convenient Powerpoint presentation in the Dragonstone caves crystalized what the show’s been getting at for a while now with the lords-and-ladies theme: A happy ending for Westeros might be one that sees society reverting to a time before Lannisters, Starks, and Targaryens existed, ruled by something other than bloodline. Haltingly, things do seem to be moving in that direction. With Cersei now childless, the Lannister line has been broken. Tyrion has turned against his own clan. And in Winterfell, Bran and Arya have basically mutated into something post-Stark—and very socially awkward.
The scene of Arya trying to convince the northern guards of her identity was a fun way to telegraph how much she and her home have transformed. Plus, given how much Thrones now yada-yadas small details on the way to big battles, I’m glad it still makes room for logistical questions such as “what’s the immigration procedure at the Winterfell gates?” Less fun: Arya’s meet-up with Sansa, which was so stilted and cold as to beggar belief. I get that they’ve changed, I get that they may not know how to talk to each other, but still, no amount of world-weariness would explain why Sansa didn’t open with “where the hell have you been?” The ever-more-insufferable Bran at least has a supernatural excuse for treating Meera like a hired porter he’s decided to stop paying. Arya may be a supreme assassin, but she’s still Sansa’s little sister, and hence was in dire need of a noogie in that crypt scene.
Fascinating as it is to see the Starks reuniting, the most pressing questions about family identity regard a Targaryen. Sometimes, Dany presents herself as a ideologically motivated conqueror for justice; other times, she invokes centuries of lineage for her claim. It’s inescapable that heritage really does matter in this world—she, after all, has her dragons because of who she is. But her pitch is in using that advantage for a higher purpose. Dany gives people hope that she can  “build a world that’s different from the shit one they’ve always known,” Jon says. But he warns, if she seeks to “burn castles and melt cities, you’re not different. You’re just more of the same.” Of course, to someone like Jaime Lannister, the difference between melting cities and melting soldiers is immaterial. Fire is fire—it needs to be extinguished.


When he set out to make Icarus, the playwright and actor Bryan Fogel had one goal: to examine how easy it is to get away with doping in professional sport. An enthusiastic amateur cyclist, he was disturbed by the fact that someone like Lance Armstrong could cheat for so many years and never fail a single drug test. “Originally,” he explains in the film, “the idea I had was to prove the system in place to test athletes was bullshit.”
What actually happened was a bit like tugging on an errant thread and having the entire clothing industry unravel right on top of you. Fogel, while conducting a human guinea-pig experiment in which he took performance-enhancing drugs to prepare for a race, was connected with a Russian doctor who ended up blowing the whistle on a state-sponsored doping scheme that had been ongoing in Russia for decades. Icarus, initially intended as a Super Size Me–style effort to poke holes in the anti-doping system, ended up capturing the maelstrom of one of the biggest scandals in sporting history, while former anti-doping officials were dying under mysterious circumstances and the IOC was pondering whether Russia should be banned outright from the 2016 Rio Olympics.
Did Hulk Hogan Neuter the First Amendment?
It’s fair, then, to call Icarus a coup for a first-time documentarian, the product of both dumb luck and a strange rapport between Fogel and Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov, who is the director of Moscow’s anti-doping center when Fogel first meets him via Skype in 2014. The first 40 minutes of the film—released on Netflix on Friday—focus on Fogel’s efforts to game the system while competing in the Haute Route, an annual event in that Alps that he describes as “the single hardest amateur bike race in the world.” The first time he competed, drug-free, he came in 14th out of 440. This time he wants to do better, using the race to prove that if “I could get away with it, that would mean that pretty much any athlete could do it and get away with it.”
An anti-doping scientist at UCLA introduces Fogel to Rodchenkov, an instantly endearing and offbeat character who croons at Fogel’s dog over Skype and has a strangely encyclopedic grasp of doping itself—what Fogel should take, and how he’ll feel as he starts his new regime. It  involves prescription steroids and hormones issued by an anti-aging doctor, and fairly graphic footage of Fogel injecting himself daily. Rodchenkov is a cheerfully game accomplice, and at some point Fogel starts to wonder—why is a lab director in charge of anti-doping efforts for the Sochi Olympics showing a relative stranger how to take performance-enhancing drugs and get away with it?
The answer comes in November 2015, when Rodchenkov is heavily implicated in a report by the World Anti-Doping Agency that ties him to state-sponsored doping efforts in Russia. “Bryan, it’s a disaster, they’re killing people, cutting heads,” he tells Fogel over Skype. And just like that, the movie switches course, following Rodchenkov’s efforts to travel to the United States and blow the whistle on his involvement in what the movie paints as staggering, systemic corruption.
Rodchenkov is a dream subject—eccentric, garrulous, frequently shirtless, and immensely charming—and the movie’s most obvious flaw is that it fails to fully parse his motivations. Is he sacrificing his life in Russia and his family left back home to bravely expose a system he’s worked within his whole life? (In one scene, offhand, he tells Fogel his mother used to inject him with stanozolol when he was a professional runner.) Or, after being named and shamed so publicly by WADA, is he simply out of options? Fogel uses George Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four as a framing device to argue that it’s the former—Rodchenkov recalls reading the book in his 30s after it was no longer banned in Russia, and being struck by its scenes of government-sanctioned destruction of truth.
But Fogel, too, is an intriguing character in his own film, who says he wants to cheat to highlight cheating itself, but who clearly has some of the professional athlete’s compulsion to win at all costs. And as Rodchenkov wrangles the FBI, the Russian FSB, and the media, Fogel doesn’t just capture the action. He becomes Rodchenkov’s advocate and defender, meeting with lawyers, finding him housing, and enabling the Russian’s efforts to disperse the significant evidence he’s gathered.
The scale of the cheating Rodchenkov helps expose is clearest when Fogel meets with scientists and officials at WADA in 2016, and explains that they have spreadsheets detailing every athlete on the state-mandated doping protocol at the London Olympics, and how many of them were implicated. The faces around the table are dumbstruck: a perfect symphony of horror, anger, and glum acceptance. “And he’s sorry? Grigory?” one of the WADA officials asks. It’s a question that neither Fogel nor Icarus really ever answers. The larger point, they emphasize, is that none of this would have ever come to light without him.


My Buddy
Patti Smith | The New Yorker
“Sam [Shepard] liked being on the move. He’d throw a fishing rod or an old acoustic guitar in the back seat of his truck, maybe take a dog, but for sure a notebook, and a pen, and a pile of books. He liked packing up and leaving just like that, going west. He liked getting a role that would take him somewhere he really didn’t want to be, but where he would wind up taking in its strangeness; lonely fodder for future work.”
Confederate: Will a Grassroots Movement Sink the Controversial HBO Series?
Jake Nevins | The Guardian
“Perhaps, for HBO, it is [a risk worth taking], if only because even a version of Confederate that confirms our worst suspicions couldn’t sink TV’s most formidable cash cow. … The team behind Confederate seems to be cautiously optimistic that the rewards and provocations of alt-history fiction—its ability to jolt us into consciousness, to recognize parallels between the past and present and force audiences to reckon with them—outweigh the risks.”
Remembering Editor Judith Jones
Ellen O’Connell Whittet | Literary Hub
“While those familiar with 20th century literature may have heard of Maxwell Perkins, editor to Thomas Wolfe, Ernest Hemingway, and F. Scott Fitzgerald (or seen the 2016 film Genius about his editing), Jones recognized a new type of genius, the diamonds in the rough, often women, who had not found editors who took their kinds of work seriously.”
Angelina Jolie and German Philosophy: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
The Nicest Evil Girl in the World
Allison P. Davis | The Cut
“In person, [Aubrey] Plaza is less deadpan, less caustic, less sarcastic, maybe even goofier, than the onscreen persona that made her famous. Still, she tells me, she’s well aware that I expected her to be a total jerk during tennis. It happens to her all the time, even now, at 33, almost a decade after she first played April.”
What’s So Hard About Casting Indian Actors in Indian Roles?
Kevin Noble Maillard | The New York Times
“‘Redface,’ the manufacturing of ersatz images of Native American identity, has long been a problem in Hollywood, and there’s a well-documented history of hiring non-Indians for Indian roles. But [Taylor] Sheridan’s solution is thorny, too. When vetting is a challenge even for tribes, which can become embroiled in controversies over identity, how can casting directors do it?”
Why Don’t Dystopias Know How to Talk About Race?
Angelica Jade Bastién | Vulture
“Most dystopian films end up ignoring the thorny politics of entrenched systems of oppression in favor of signaling out one lead character who gloriously resists and somehow survives—a conservative narrative that suggests oppression can be overcome if people just try hard enough. There is something disturbing about filmmakers portraying white characters as both those most harmed by oppression and the sole heroes able to dismantle it.”
How Charlize Theron Became the Greatest Action Star in the World
Kevin Fallon | The Daily Beast
“The truth is that Lorraine—and Charlize’s performance—stands on its own, a one-two knockout following her turn in Mad Max: Fury Road that cements her as the greatest action hero currently working in film. She boasts the athleticism, depth, magnetism, and wanton disregard for convention that intensifies her appeal, and the lack of which makes so many other action stars so bland.”
The Complicated Life and Death of Hideki Irabu
Ben Reiter | Sports Illustrated 
“[George] Steinbrenner, though, didn’t pay him $12 million for just above average, nor did [Rudy] Giuliani hand him a crystal apple for just above average, nor did Yankees fans applaud him for just above average. As it turned out, there were many things about the failed ace that none of them grasped.”


Don’t Miss
The Lost Cause Rides Again—Ta-Nehisi Coates explains that HBO’s Confederate takes as its premise an ugly truth that black Americans are forced to live every day.
Film
Why The Emoji Movie Fails—Megan Garber posits that the new book The Emoji Code celebrates the democratic ambiguity of pictographs, while the movie’s conceit stifles it.
The Joy of The Incredible Jessica James—Sophie Gilbert thinks James C. Strouse’s movie is a predictable romantic comedy elevated by an incandescent star.
How Logan Lucky Can Bring Back the Mid-Budget Movie—David Sims believes Steven Soderbergh’s new crime caper, being released and marketed without the help of big studios, could change the way Hollywood works.
The Lost Boys’ Subtly Radical Vision of Family—Brandon Tensley revisits the 1987 vampire horror-comedy that debuted at a time when America was preoccupied with the evolution of traditional kinship bonds.
Menashe Is a Moving Drama of Hasidic Life—David Sims appreciates Joshua Weinstein’s debut fiction film as a powerful, if small-scoped, depiction of a father and son living in a closed society.
The Disappointments of Detroit—Christopher Orr regrets that despite moments of emotional power, Kathryn Bigelow’s film offers a narrow and unnuanced portrait of the city’s 1967 riots.
TV
Did 13 Reasons Why Spark a Suicide Contagion Effect?—Sophie Gilbert looks at a new study that reveals internet searches for suicide skyrocketed in the wake of the show’s release.
Ava DuVernay on Queen Sugar and Her Hollywood Journey—Adrienne Green talks to the director about the show’s midseason finale, the importance of telling black stories, and her secret to navigating the film and TV industry.
Lyanna Mormont and the Slogan Feminism of Game of Thrones—Megan Garber analyzes the show’s complicated relationship with the women in its world and how it’s trying to simplify things heading into its conclusion.
Game of Thrones: All the Queens’ Men—Lenika Cruz, David Sims, and Spencer Kornhaber discuss the third episode of the seventh season.
Game of Thrones: That Girl Was Poison—Megan Garber emphasizes that in a show deeply concerned with the morality of its killings, toxic potions have been weapons of last resort.
The Bachelorette and the Empty Redemptions of Reality TV—Megan Garber watches the show’s The Men Tell All special, which treated the confrontation of Lee Garrett for his racist tweets as a productive conversation but fell short of its intended goals.
Books
What We’re Reading This Summer—The Atlantic’s editors and writers recommend a collection of books.
What We Lose: A Striking Novel About Filial Grief—Amy Weiss-Meyer reviews Zinzi Clemmons’s debut, which tangles with familiar questions but uses a propulsive experimentalism in lieu of linear narrative.
Why Men Pretend to Be Women to Sell Thrillers—Sophie Gilbert examines how female writers have come to dominate crime fiction.
Theater
Remembering Sam Shepard—David Sims eulogizes the legendary American playwright, novelist, screenwriter, and actor, who died at the age of 73.


HBO’s prospective series Confederate will offer an alternative history of post-Civil War America. It will ask the question, according to co-creator David Benioff,  “What would the world have looked like … if the South had won?” A swirl of virtual protests and op-eds have greeted this proposed premise. In response, HBO has expressed “great respect” for its critics but also said it hopes that they will “reserve judgment until there is something to see.”
This request sounds sensible at first pass. Should one not “reserve judgment” of a thing until after it has been seen? But HBO does not actually want the public to reserve judgment so much as it wants the public to make a positive judgment. A major entertainment company does not announce a big new show in hopes of garnering dispassionate nods of acknowledgement. HBO executives themselves judged Confederate before they’d seen it—they had to, as no television script actually exists. HBO hoped to communicate that approval to its audience through the announcement. And had that communication been successful, had Confederate been greeted with rapturous anticipation, it is hard to imagine the network asking its audience to tamp down and wait.
The Case for Reparations: An Intellectual Autopsy
HBO’s motives aside, the plea to wait supposes that a problem of conception can be fixed in execution. We do not need to wait to observe that this supposition is, at best, dicey. For over a century, Hollywood has churned out well-executed, slickly produced epics which advanced the Lost Cause myth of the Civil War. These are true “alternative histories,” built on “alternative facts,” assembled to depict the Confederacy as a wonderland of virtuous damsels and gallant knights, instead of the sprawling kleptocratic police state it actually was. From last century’s The Birth of a Nation to this century’s Gods and Generals, Hollywood has likely done more than any other American institution to obstruct a truthful apprehension of the Civil War, and thus modern America’s very origins. So one need not wait to observe that any foray by HBO into the Civil War must be met with a spirit of pointed inquiry and a withholding of all benefit of the doubt.
Skepticism must be the order of the day. So that when Benioff asks “what would the world have looked like … if the South had won,” we should not hesitate to ask what Benioff means by “the South.” He obviously does not mean the minority of  white Southern unionists, who did win. And he does not mean those four million enslaved blacks, whom the Civil War ultimately emancipated, yet whose victory was tainted. Comprising 40 percent of the Confederacy’s population, this was the South’s indispensable laboring class, its chief resource, its chief source of wealth, and the sole reason why a Confederacy existed in the first place. But they are not the subject of Benioff’s inquiry, because he is not so much asking about “the South” winning, so much as he is asking about “the white South” winning.
The distinction matters. For while the Confederacy, as a political entity, was certainly defeated, and chattel slavery outlawed, the racist hierarchy which Lee and Davis sought to erect, lives on. It had to. The terms of the white South’s defeat were gentle. Having inaugurated a war which killed more Americans than all other American wars combined, the Confederacy’s leaders were back in the country’s political leadership within a decade. Within two, they had effectively retaken control of the South.
Knowing this, we do not have to wait to point out that comparisons between Confederate and The Man in the High Castle are fatuous. Nazi Germany was also defeated. But while its surviving leadership was put on trial before the world, not one author of the Confederacy was convicted of treason. Nazi Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop was hanged at Nuremberg. Confederate General John B. Gordon became a senator. Germany has spent the decades since World War II in national penance for Nazi crimes. America spent the decades after the Civil War transforming Confederate crimes into virtues. It is illegal to fly the Nazi flag in Germany. The Confederate flag is enmeshed in the state flag of Mississippi.
The symbols point to something Confederate’s creators don’t seem to understand—the war is over for them, not for us. At this very hour, black people all across the South are still fighting the battle which they joined during Reconstruction—securing equal access to the ballot—and resisting a president whose resemblance to Andrew Johnson is uncanny. Confederate is the kind of provocative thought experiment that can be engaged in when someone else’s lived reality really is fantasy to you, when your grandmother is not in danger of losing her vote, when the terrorist attack on Charleston evokes honest sympathy, but inspires no direct fear. And so we need not wait to note that Confederate’s interest in Civil War history is biased, that it is premised on a simplistic view of white Southern defeat, instead of the more complicated morass we have all around us.
And one need not wait to ask if Benioff and D.B. Weiss are, at any rate, the candidates to help lead us out of that morass or deepen it. A body of work exists in the form of their hit show Game of Thrones. We do not have to wait to note the persistent criticism of that show is its depiction of rape. Rape—generational rape, mass rape—is central to the story of enslavement. For 250 years the bodies of enslaved black women were regarded as property, to be put to whatever use—carnal and otherwise—that their enslavers saw fit. Why HBO believes that this duo, given their past work, is the best team to revisit that experience is a question one should not wait to ask.
And all this must be added to a basic artistic critique—Confederate is a shockingly unoriginal idea, especially for the allegedly avant garde HBO. “What if the white South had won?” may well be the most trod-upon terrain in the field of American alternative history. There are novels about it, comic books about it, games about it, and a mockumentary about it. It’s been barely a year since Ben Winters published Underground Airlines.
Storytellers have the right to answer any question they choose. But we do not need to wait to examine all the questions that are not being chosen: What if John Brown had succeeded? What if the Haitian Revolution had spread to the rest of the Americas? What if black soldiers had been enlisted at the onset of the Civil War? What if Native Americans had halted the advance of whites at the Mississippi? And we need not wait to note that more interesting than asking what the world would be like if the white South had won is asking why so many white people are enthralled with a world where the dreams of Harriet Tubman were destroyed by the ambitions of Robert E. Lee.
The problem of Confederate can’t be redeemed by production values, crisp writing, or even complicated characters. That is not because its conceivers are personally racist, or seek to create a show that endorses slavery. Far from it, I suspect. Indeed, the creators have said that their hope is to use science fiction to “show us how this history is still with us in a way no strictly realistic drama ever could.” And that really is the problem. African Americans do not need science-fiction, or really any fiction, to tell them that that “history is still with us.” It’s right outside our door. It’s in our politics. It’s on our networks. And Confederate is not immune. The show’s very operating premise, the fact that it roots itself in a long white tradition of imagining away emancipation, leaves one wondering how “lost” the Lost Cause really was.
It’s good that the show-runners have brought on two noted and talented black writers—Nichelle Tramble Spellman and Malcolm Spellman. But one wonders: If black writers, in general, were to have HBO’s resources and support to create an alternative world, would they choose the world dreamed up by the progenitors of the Ku Klux Klan? Or would they address themselves to other less trod areas of Civil War history in the desire to say something new, in the desire to not, yet again, produce a richly imagined and visually beguiling lie?
We have been living with the lie for so long. And we cannot fix the lie by asking “What if the white South won?” and waiting for an answer, because the lie is not in the answer, but in the question itself.


In the early morning hours of Sunday, July 23, 1967, Detroit police raided an unlicensed social club, or “blind pig,” on the city’s Near West Side. The all-black clientele, who had been celebrating soldiers returning from Vietnam, were hauled away in paddy wagons, igniting five days of rioting. Stores were looted, cars and buildings burned. State troopers, the National Guard, and eventually two airborne divisions were called in. By the end, more than 7,000 arrests were made, and 43 people, mostly black, were dead.
The director Kathryn Bigelow’s Detroit opens with lightly animated variations on Jacob Lawrence’s painting series on the Great Migration, as onscreen text explains the deep roots of black Detroit’s discontent. Bigelow then dramatizes the raid on the blind pig and the outward ripple of violence through the city. A young John Conyers, then serving his second term in Congress, pleads with residents, “I need you not to mess up your own neighborhood.” We see footage of Michigan Governor George Romney, bearing an almost disconcerting resemblance to his son. A little girl peering out a window is mistaken for a sniper and shot dead. A baby-faced detective shoots a looter in the back and is informed by a superior that he may face murder charges. For a time, it appears that Bigelow, as she did in her superb and sophisticated Zero Dark Thirty, will tell a broad, multi-faceted story, the tale of a city that has become a war zone.
Kathryn Bigelow Sort of Apologizes for 'Zero Dark Thirty' Torture Confusion
But she doesn’t. Working from a screenplay by her customary collaborator, Mark Boal, Bigelow instead quickly narrows her focus to a single building on the night of July 25th. The building is a detached house that served as an “annex” to the black-owned Algiers Motel. On the night in question, 10 black men and two white women were in the annex when nearby Guardsmen believed a sniper had fired on them from one of the windows. Along with Detroit police and state troopers, they shot out windows and then stormed the building. By the end of the night, three of the residents—all black men—would be shot dead, and the remainder beaten and humiliated.
Detroit is a powerful, harrowing film. Insofar as it seeks to place viewers in the shoes of its helpless, terrified victims of police brutality, it succeeds to an almost unbearable degree. But that is a strangely narrow ambition for a filmmaker of Bigelow’s gifts, not to mention a film whose title encompasses an entire city. What is missing is not merely scope, but nuance: Zero Dark Thirty and Bigelow’s earlier The Hurt Locker conveyed not merely the conflict between characters but also that within them. Detroit, by contrast, is purely a story of villains and victims, a horror movie made all the more horrible by the fact that it is true.
Inevitably, accounts vary concerning precisely what took place in the Algiers Motel annex that night. (John Hersey wrote a 1968 book trying to reckon with these inconsistencies called The Algiers Motel Incident.) Bigelow and Boal have done their best to recount the events as accurately as possible, but unlike Hersey they have to pick one story and stick with it. And the story they choose, though chilling and intense, is disappointingly one-dimensional in its portrayal of both the Algiers Motel residents and their police assailants. (In order to clarify the choices the filmmakers made, I will describe some of the historic and cinematic details; those concerned about mild spoilers, be advised.)
The apparent “sniper fire” was one resident fooling around harmlessly with a starter pistol. Although he was shot almost immediately after authorities stormed the building, the pistol was never recovered. Police then rounded up the remaining residents in a ground-floor hallway, among them a returning vet (the excellent Anthony Mackie), a doo-wop singer (Jacob Latimore), and the two party-seeking young women (Hannah Murray and Kaitlyn Dever). When the Guardsmen and state troopers leave the scene—the latter, sensing trouble, don’t want to “get involved in any civil-rights incident”—the residents are left at the mercy of three Detroit policemen. They are all, like the vast majority of the force at the time, white.
Two of the cops (played by Ben O’Toole and Jack Reynor) are clearly racist and comfortable with the use of violent force on civilians, in particular black ones. But the third (Will Poulter) is a sociopath out of central casting, right down to the Mephistophelean tilt of his eyebrows. Lest we have any doubt on this score, he is the same baby-faced officer whom we saw kill a looter without remorse earlier in the film. He is insistent that he will not leave the premises until a shooter is identified and the gun recovered. To this end, he and his partners line the residents up facing the walls of the hallway and proceed to use every brutal tool at their disposal: beatings, murder threats, mock executions, and ultimately (if, in Bigelow and Boal’s telling, somewhat accidentally), actual killings.
This scene in the hallway is the centerpiece of the two-hour-plus film, and it is nothing short of horrifying. The residents’ terror is palpable, as is the cops’ air of utter impunity. But the impact of violence in cinema is rarely cumulative: Each successive depiction may repulse, but over time they begin to numb as well. So it is with the hallway scene. What begins as a shocking portrait of police misconduct gradually becomes a test of audience endurance.
If this extended central act is problematic in narrative terms, it is even more so when it come to the film’s political message. Poulter’s diabolical cop, however accurate, tells us next to nothing about the cultural and institutional forces that fed racism and abuse in the city (for example, the lack of a civilian police review board, and a police “value system” that encouraged bigotry). He is evil, full stop, with no further context or explanation required.
Bigelow and Boal’s efforts to avert any hint of moral complication is made most apparent in their treatment of the most ambiguous figure in the story, Melvin Dismukes, a black private-security guard who was also present at the motel and, according to some witnesses, participated in the beatings. Detroit does not consider this possibility, instead presenting Dismukes (played with quiet charisma by John Boyega) as a good man in an impossible situation, a peacemaker who tries only to protect the motel residents. The film presents his subsequent prosecution—in extreme contrast to that of the white cops—as a gross injustice. And it does not mention at all that he, along with the cops, was found guilty by an informal tribunal of black city leaders that included Rosa Parks.
In Zero Dark Thirty, Bigelow and Boal embraced such moral complexities and contradictions. Indeed, the film was so nuanced that some viewers—egged on by self-interested critiques from Senators John McCain and Dianne Feinstein, among others—believed the film to be “pro-torture,” which it emphatically was not. (Always be skeptical when political figures present themselves as film critics: The former LBJ aide Joseph Califano similarly helped torpedo Selma’s Oscar chances with an op-ed in The Washington Post.)
It is easy to understand why Bigelow and Boal sought to avoid such ambiguities in Detroit—given both the ugly tensions of the current political moment and the ways in which Zero Dark Thirty was misconstrued. But the result is a film that, for all its emotional power, is strangely disengaged from the cultural and systemic forces that led to police brutality in 1967 and continue to do so today. It is an opportunity missed.


The Emoji Movie might have been 💯 . It might have been a work of quiet genius, in the manner of Toy Story or The Lego Movie or Inside Out: a quirky and soulful exploration of the worlds that exist in parallel to our own, investing objects that would seem merely to be dully inanimate with story and, thus, empathy. It might have been, too, a particularly timely exploration of smartphones and their contents: Here, after all, are objects that are with so many of us, at our sides and in our hands, humming bits of glass and metal that tell a million little stories with each swipe, and each tap, and each touch of a warm human pulse.
But: no. The Emoji Movie, instead, is a frenetic mishmash—not so much a single story of a parallel world so much as a roller-coaster-y tour of some of the apps of 2017: Spotify, Instagram, Twitter, Candy Crush, even Dropbox. Everything, here, is branded—even the parallel world itself, Textopolis, which is home to Gene, the offspring of two “meh” emojis. Gene is, in the grand tradition of such for-kids-but-also-not-totally-for-kids films, Different. He is not limited, in the way of the emoji, to one expression; he can make them all. But in order to realize that which makes him Different might actually make him Special, Gene first goes on a dizzying journey—through Textopolis, yes, but also through Spotify and Just Dance and YouTube and, in general, late capitalism as it is understood and manufactured by the Hollywood of the moment.   
Because of that—and because also, ironically, of the premise that might have been 💯—critics eviscerated The Emoji Movie. Really gleefully eviscerated it. (Schadenfreudenunicoden?) The New York Times called it “nakedly idiotic.” BuzzFeed wrote that “it’s barely a movie so much as a confused attempt to both condescend to an audience about their short attention spans thanks to mobile devices while also trying to profit off of that very same audience.” Gizmodo did an all-emoji review of the film featuring, primarily, the Thinking Face emoji in several permutations. So critically unloved was this film—so squandered the promise it represented—that for a moment it seemed to be in contention for that rarest of honors: a 0 percent approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes. (Alas, even that moon-shooting was a failure: The film currently stands at an awkward score of 7 percent.)
The Case Against the Grammar Scolds
In a weird way, then, The Emoji Movie is not just a critical flop, but also a metaphor for a Hollywood that is struggling to find the line between branding that audiences love and branding that audiences resent. Here is a film that takes some of the most intimate tools of people’s lives—the hearts and eggplants and joy-tears and tacos and other images that help them to express their love, and their desire, and their sadness—and considers how wacky it would be if one of those images was actually a guy named Gene. Here is a film that takes the revolution that has resulted from the advent of digital communication and whimsically brands it. Emojis, after all, are not just the little doodads that live in your WhatsApp. They are also, in the most basic and most profound of ways, tools—parts of a global continuum that has included everything from hieroglyphs to emoticons to text itself. They ask questions about what it really means for something, at this point in human history, to be “universal.”
The Emoji Movie, as it happens, shares a rough premiere date with The Emoji Code, the new book from the scholar and prolific author Vyvyan Evans. Evans’s book (subtitle: The Linguistics Behind Smiley Faces and Scaredy Cats) is an analysis—aimed at a popular audience—of the academic research that has been conducted about emojis since their creation in the late 1990s. It summons linguistics, and psychology, and cognitive science to consider why emojis have proven so popular and, so far, enduring. It reads, often, as a defense of what Evans refers to as Emoji, with a capital E: the complicated system of pictographs that augment text in digital communication. The collection of unicode that, Evans argues, “enables us to provide the non-verbal cues otherwise missing from textspeak.”
Evans’s book is a thorough exploration, in other words, of the extremely two-dimensional stars of The Emoji Movie. But it is also, in its arguments, something of an implied condemnation of The Emoji Movie. In Evans’s science-informed telling, emojis are not a language unto themselves, as has sometimes been suggested, but rather tools of communication that are productively basic: useful bridges of the emotional gaps that can exist in the dull black and white of text as it is rendered on a screen. The Emoji Code in many ways champions emojis against those who have seen the cheeky pictographs not as extensions of English, but as a threat to it—and to, by extension, language as we have known it.
And while that framing can itself occasionally read as overly two-dimensional—there are few people, at this point, who seem to believe that emojis will be the death of English, or any other language—it also situates The Emoji Code well with the ideas espoused by the linguist John McWhorter, and by the linguist Gretchen McCulloch, and by so many other canny observers of English as it lives and grows in its new digital environments: Language, breathing free, is its own kind of democracy. And that is evident online, in particular, where a good turn of phrase, or a new meme, or indeed a cleverly deployed emoji, can be so easily amplified and adapted and woven into the language. Emojis, in particular, are elastic in that way: They can mean whatever the writer, and whatever the recipient, decide they mean, together.
That can lead to a productive kind of ambiguity. Remember that tattoo Drake got a few years ago, which could be read either as two hands, praying, or as two hands, frozen in a high five? The star, as New York’s Adam Sternbergh pointed out, finally settled the matter: “I pity the fool who high-fives in 2014,” Drake clarified on his Instagram. But there would be many more debates in that vein. Are those dancing twins, symbols of female friendship, or Playboy bunnies, symbols of female objectification? Is that a toothy mouth-gape a grin or a grimace? When I texted “Drinks?” and you texted back, “🐙,” what did you mean?
This kind of ambiguity, Evans suggests, also gives way to useful flexibility. It allows emojis the kind of semantic suppleness that helps them to humanize, and augment, and otherwise expand, our text-based communications. Emojis can function as punctuation. They can work as pictographic versions of “lol.” They can convey personality—identity—with notable economy. Slack, the group-messaging service widely used for professional chatting, recently offered users the ability to add emojis to their handles, as a kind of status update—a 📅  would mean “in a meeting,” a 🚌  would mean “commuting,” a 🌴  would mean “on vacation,” and so on. Almost immediately, though, the service’s users expanded on Slack’s idea: They began using the emoji-status capability to augment their handles in more playful and expressive ways. Suddenly, Slack chats proliferated with people whose names were accompanied by screaming cats and expressionless faces and tiny, squared portraits of Jay-Z. The emojis had been used for a different purpose than the one originally intended. They had been made at once more fun and more expressive of users’ identities. They had been, in their way, democratized.
It’s a small point when it comes to emojis but a bigger one when it comes to the political power of language. Emojis are part of a broader phenomenon playing out across social media: English is exploding, at the moment, with new words and new grammars and new modes of human expression. It is alive—not in the way the creators of The Emoji Movie have imagined on our behalf (hey again, Gene), but in a much more meaningful way. As Evans puts it:
While Emoji will surely continue to evolve, and other systems and codes will be developed that will complement and, doubtless, replace Emoji as it currently exists, its emergence provides the beginning of a more or less level playing field, between face-to-face interaction and digital communication—better enabling effective communication in the digital sphere.
The Emoji Movie is notable in part because, in its very conceit, it pushes back against all of that buzzing evolution. It tries to brand it. It tries to turn it into intellectual property. As Alex French reported in a fantastic piece for The New York Times Magazine, there’s a booming business in Hollywood right now, one that involves taking existing intellectual property and, through the insistent alchemy of the studio budget, converting it into a Story. Angry Birds. Battleship. Fruit Ninja. Jumanji. And on and on.
Films like this are of course part of a much larger trend in Hollywood, the one that involves comic-book franchises, and sequels-to-sequels, and a hefty reliance on the general notion of the “universe”—films that give rise to anxieties about the reboot industrial complex and that cause people to wonder, extremely fairly, whether Hollywood is simply out of new ideas. (In 2016, La La Land was the only film of the year’s 20 top-grossers to have been wholly original—that is, not based on existing material. In 1996, nine of those 20 had been based on original screenplays.)
But The Emoji Movie and its fellow travelers are different. They aren’t merely adapting stories from another genre; they are taking something that has no story of its own—the toy, the game, the emotion—and attempting to inject story into it. As the producer Tripp Vinson told French, the changes that have come about in Hollywood over the past decade have “forced me to look at everything as though it could be I.P.” Sometimes, the results of that general approach to the world—everything can be a story—are delightful. Sometimes, they can be creatively Lego Movie-esque, their imagined worlds allowing for satire and allegory as well as entertainment. Many more times, though, those films read as cynical. They scan less as works of cinema than as weary exercises in forced anthropomorphism: big-screen versions of Clippy. (“It looks like you’re writing the script for a soulless cash grab! Would you like help?”)
And that’s another problem with The Emoji Movie. It takes all the productive linguistic experimentation that is happening every day—every minute—every second—in people’s phones and lives and reduces it down to stock characters who go through the motions of extremely conventional storytelling. Sony won The Emoji Movie in a bidding war against, reportedly, Warner Bros. and Paramount. In that sense, Gene belongs to the studio. But in another sense, Gene does not belong to anyone. Those silly little pictographs belong to us all. The Emoji Movie grafts its own plot onto the tools that real people, people who are not Hollywood studio executives, have been using to write their own stories, to have their own fun, to tell their own truths. No wonder the movie made them, in the end, a little bit 😡.



I read all 512 pages of Angelica Baker’s debut novel greedily, in one dizzying weekend, unable to put it down. Which is fitting, in a way: Our Little Racket follows the sudden downfall of a Lehman Brothers–esque CEO through the eyes of his wife, their teenage daughter, and the other women surrounding them, and as such it’s very much a story of greed and its out-of-control consequences. But the book gets beyond moneymaking hubris to a more basic kind of desire—the fretful, shapeless longing of those who are sidelined to be seen somehow as indispensable.
Binge-watchers of Big Little Lies will enjoy the elegantly cutthroat politics of suburban life in wealthy Greenwich, Connecticut, while fans of Elena Ferrante will like the sharp portrayal of the delicate power balances in women’s friendships. But any reader will appreciate the tightly woven drama of this book, which brings its five protagonists out of the margins of the crisis and into an explosive confrontation of their own.
Book I’m hoping to read: Love in the Time of Cholera by Gabriel García Márquez
—Rosa Inocencio Smith, assistant editor
For Selin, the Turkish-American protagonist and narrator of Elif Batuman’s The Idiot, arriving at Harvard in the fall of 1995 is an occasion of great flourishing. Intellectual and experiential horizons are broadened. New technology, in the form of, yes, email—“a glowing list of messages from all the people you knew, and from people you didn’t know … like the universal handwriting of thought or of the world”—makes apparent the complexities of our ever-evolving epistolary media. But it’s also a time of emotional confusion: Selin falls for a bland, apparently brilliant, Hungarian mathematician named Ivan. Several years her senior, he treats her as an odd curiosity, someone to be intrigued by but never quite taken with.
While Selin’s on-again, off-again pursuit of Ivan gives The Idiot its narrative spine, for me, the novel’s true pleasures are in the rapid maturation of her powers of observation. “Why was ‘plain’ a euphemism for ‘ugly,’ when the very hallmark of human beauty was its plainness, the symmetry and simplicity that always seemed so young and so innocent,” Selin muses. It’s a work of peculiar discovery, a portrait of the artist as a young Turkish-American woman obsessed with language and its powers. And Selin’s infatuation with Ivan, too, offers her a way to work out her nascent theories of love, life, and meaningful expression.
My anxious, sweaty, early college days were full of unrequited longings, both romantic and cerebral—I wanted my opinions about Bergman, Chekhov, and colonialism to be valued and important. The Idiot took me back to that awkward time, full of pain and strangeness, but also of promise and delight.
Book I’m hoping to read: Neuromancer by William Gibson
—Siddhartha Mahanta, associate editor
Fear and Loathing in America is a collection of Hunter S. Thompson’s private and business letters between 1968 and 1976. There are other earlier and later collections, but in these years he’s in his prime. “The Battle of Aspen” (Rolling Stone, 1970) is one of my favorite pieces of his, and here you see how it came together, and how it shaped his understanding of journalism’s role in political power.
Thompson carbon-copied all of his letters and reportedly imagined they’d be published one day, which slightly ruins the idea that you’re looking inside his head when reading them. His letters have the same energy and humor of his columns. But to whatever degree his persona involved conscious performance, it’s one he kept up for thousands of pages of private correspondence. I come out believing the reason his work resonated with so many people was because it was authentic. It’s possible the crisis of faith in journalism today would be helped if there were more writers as relatable, unpretentious, and candid as he was.
There are, of course, parallels between his feelings about Richard Nixon then and many people’s feelings about Donald Trump today. It can be cathartic to wade through HST’s despair for democracy and the American idea, and to realize that it was not less intense than many people’s today, and to see how he coped and didn't, and to remember that he and the country made it through.
Book I’m hoping to read: Things That Happened Before the Earthquake by Chiara Barzini
—James Hamblin, senior editor
This hefty graphic novel by the Korean cartoonist Yeon-Sik Hong is one of the simplest stories I’ve read this year. It has no real suspense or plot, no grand reveal. Based on Hong’s own experience moving with his wife Sohmi from Seoul to the countryside, Uncomfortably Happily is a candid, engrossing tale of two comic artists looking for comfort in solitude and minimalist living, even as the twin shadows of poverty and stress loom.
While they are thrilled to leave the smog and noisy crowds behind, the couple relocate largely out of financial necessity; on page after page, the irritable Hong agonizes over his meager paychecks and unfulfilled creative dreams. Uncomfortably Happily, which is plainly but engagingly drawn, spends as much time, though, on the daily indignities and triumphs of living in the mountains. Divided into seasons, the book reflects the duo's newfound connection to the patterns and whims of nature: In the winter, the couple experiment with burning coal to save money. In the spring, they begin the tricky work of loosening the soil and planting sesame, lettuce, and mugwort. They fret over trespassers, chores, and commuting to the city. They adopt a dog, buy some chickens, and clean up the mess when the dog kills the chickens. Sometimes, they treat themselves to grilled meat for dinner or go for a swim.
I appreciated the book’s contemplative, and realist, mode, and its unromantic look at oft-romanticized lifestyles: that of the country-dweller and that of the artist. Beyond that, I just found it therapeutic to follow the quietly charming Hong and Sohmi week to week, not doing much more than making do.
Book I’m hoping to read: Nochita by Dia Felix
—Lenika Cruz, associate editor
At 549 pages, Nobody’s Fool is not a short novel, but it could be easy to dismiss as slight. The setting is unremarkable, and the action, such as it is, unfolds slowly. But Richard Russo, who would go on to win a Pulitzer Prize for his 2001 book Empire Falls, creates compelling characters and writes with such humanity and humor that the book is pure delight. The story is built around Sully, a down-on-his-luck everyman who lives in a blue-collar town in upstate New York; his son Peter, a college professor whose career and marriage are failing; his aging landlady Miss Beryl; his dim-witted best friend Rub Squeers; his anxious ex-wife Vera; and a menagerie of other townspeople who bring a boisterous joy to the happenings. Russo’s mastery of dialogue, gift for observation, and penchant for amusing cul-de-sacs more than compensate for any lack of pyrotechnics in the plot.
Book I’m hoping to read: Hue 1968: A Turning Point of the American War in Vietnam by Mark Bowden
—Bob Cohn, president
Now is a time to be reading about Israel. Every day, it seems, some new controversy brings the little Middle Eastern country back into the American discourse; while U.S. politics are going through a period of chaotic scramble, the politics of U.S.-Israel-Palestine appear to be on the same steady path toward crisis. Ari Shavit’s book is not a political argument, exactly: It is about the history, and fraughtness, and hope of the land of Israel, and all the ugliness, ambition, joy, and sadness with which the country came to be. He tells the story of Israel's founding and evolution through original interviews and personal narrative, inviting readers along on a journey of historical reckoning that is profoundly ambivalent in its conclusions. That the author himself has become a troubled figure in recent months only adds to the long list of questions I'm wrestling with as I approach the end of the book.
Book I’m hoping to read: Far From the Tree by Andrew Solomon
—Emma Green, staff writer
I spent a night in a seaside tent shortly after finishing Annihilation, and it transformed the familiar-to-campers morning symphony of bird songs, buzzing insects, and crashing waves into something new and not altogether comforting. In this hypnotic and deadpan hybrid of sci-fi, science non-fiction, psychological thriller, and horror, Jeff VanderMeer imagines a group of scientists venturing into a stretch of the American coastline that’s been taken over by a mysterious something rebuffing the influence of humankind. Our narrator, referred to only as “the biologist,” describes a vibrant wilderness that defies her understanding not only of science but also of her own perception. To say much more about her expedition’s mind-bending findings would spoil the book, the first of a trilogy. But trust me: Once you begin Annihilation, you’ll see the flora and fauna around you with more clarity—which is to say, with proper awe at its unknowability.  
Book I’m hoping to read: A Separation by Katie Kitamura
—Spencer Kornhaber, staff writer
There’s a thin line between trashy summer reads and meaty, good summer reads. How many times can you flop on the beach with a thriller like The Girl on the Train and not feel like you are bingeing on candy and your brain is turning into a big cavity? I'm always on the lookout for a page-turner that isn’t too indulgent, and Jennifer Haigh’s Heat and Light fits the bill. It has a weighty topic—fracking in Pennsylvania—but deftly tackles the human dimensions of the subject and creates tension that keeps the reader occupied. Through the eyes of a farmer, a prison guard, an activist, a housewife, and a man employed by the drilling industry, the book looks at how a small town reacts to fracking among its farms. This would be easy to do in black and white—fracking bad, environmentalists good—but Haigh brings texture to her characters, making the reader really consider the pros and cons of outside business coming into small, dying towns. In short, you can take Haigh's book to the beach and leave the guilt behind; it’s well written, and will definitely make you think.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Sympathizer by Viet Thanh Nguyen
—Alana Semuels, staff writer
There are certain books that occupy such a place in my consciousness that a simple glimpse of its spine fills me with joy and transports me to where I was when I first read it. The Shadow Lines is such a book. I picked it up recently after nearly two decades to see whether it held up; as before, I was quickly engrossed. The novel is funny, sad, wistful, and ultimately tragic: An unnamed narrator describes his hero worship of one cousin, his unrequited love for another, and the friendship between two families, one English and the other Indian, forged during the war. Amitav Ghosh’s writing luxuriates in what seem like the certainties of the past, but contain memories that are misremembered, half-remembered, and deliberately concealed—the shadow lines of the title. The book can be difficult to follow: It moves back and forth in time, between places, among multiple story arcs, often on the same page. But it’s precisely those qualities, and Ghosh’s incisive observations along the way, that make reading it an arresting experience, as I once again discovered.  
Book I’m hoping to read: July 1914: Countdown to War by Sean McMeekin
—Krishnadev Calamur, senior editor
Bianca Bosker was the executive technology editor at The Huffington Post when she abruptly quit her job and took a $10-an-hour gig as a “cellar rat,” hauling cases of wine for a Manhattan restaurant. Her endgame: to immerse herself in the world of “cork dorks,” master sommeliers and obsessives who devote their lives to studying, sampling, and selling wine. Cork Dork is an account of Bosker’s journey from a casual wine drinker to the sommelier at Terroir Tribeca. But it’s also an enlightening and wacky introduction to the wine industry itself, with its manifold highs (1989 Chateau d’Yquem) and lows (highly processed wines like Yellow Tail and Sledgehammer that contain additives like powdered egg whites or bentonite clay).
Bosker’s mission seems journalistic, at first—she wants to ascertain what actually makes a super-nosed oenophile, and whether such rarefied powers of perception are within the grasp of the average Cabernet drinker. This involves an alarming number of days where she’s hungover by 2 p.m. after attending tastings to bolster her limited education. But she ends up thoroughly absorbed in the weird world she documents, even as she maintains an outsider’s ability to skewer its more ridiculous elements. Cork Dork is, somehow, both an entry-level guide to the ever-growing business of wine and a masterclass in the strange, immensely skilled fanatics who make it their life’s work.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Ministry of Utmost Happiness by Arundhati Roy
—Sophie Gilbert, staff writer
Years ago, an editor instructed me to read My Traitor’s Heart, Rian Malan’s 1990 reported memoir about Late Apartheid South Africa. I can’t recall what the context for that recommendation was, but I didn’t get around to picking up the book until this summer, when the timing felt fortuitous: What better moment to read about a society tearing itself apart, wracked with police violence against people of color, with a progressive bloc standing by, wringing its hands solemnly but unable or unwilling to formulate an effective response?
But it’s unfair to distill My Traitor’s Heart to, or read it as, merely a parable for the present era in American politics. For someone of my generation, who grew up with the Apartheid regime as a sort of cardboard bogeyman, Malan’s vivid reportage makes the horror of South Africa under P.W. Botha come alive in sickening ways. And Malan, the renegade son of a deeply connected Afrikaner family and a disenchanted former Marxist, is at his best when he is skewering the illusions and pieties of white South Africans who opposed the racist regime. He is especially unsparing in enumerating the faults of one young liberal: himself.
Book I’m hoping to read: Fly Me by Daniel Riley
—David A. Graham, staff writer
As much as I love discovering new books, I find myself coming back to Jeffrey Eugenides’s first novel, The Virgin Suicides, at least once a year. And more often than not, it happens to be during the summer: The June months that bookend the story feel even more poignant when I’m sitting in the same muggy, buzzing weather as the Lisbon sisters and the boys so enthralled by them.
The Virgin Suicides turns what could easily be a dark and depressing tale into an engrossing, lyrical story about youth, innocence, and that ever elusive idea of teenage girlhood. Told from the perspective of a group of middle-aged men looking back on their past, Eugenides’s novel attempts to explore what it is that brought the five Lisbon sisters to kill themselves. The narrators fail to reach a solid conclusion, but learn more about the sisters as people, concluding that “the girls were really women in disguise, that they understood love and even death, and that our job was merely to create the noise that seemed to fascinate them.”
It’s easy to forget the particulars of what it means to be a teenager—“Obviously, Doctor, you’ve never been a 13-year-old girl,” says the youngest Lisbon sister, Cecilia, when chastised for not knowing how tough life can really be—but Eugenides’s writing has a way of making those isolating high-school years feel familiar, relatable, and not all that long ago.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Underground Railroad by Colson Whitehead
—Tori Latham, editorial fellow
In her debut novel, Salt Houses, Hala Alyan pulls readers into the daily ups and downs of displaced people, using themes of memory, inheritance, ongoing loss, and rebuilding. The Palestinian American author was inspired by her own family’s experiences being forced to relocate: As she notes of that past in an interview on NPR’s Morning Edition, “A lot of the times it’s something that's really not brought up, which then leaves it to the later generations to reimagine, reconceptualize, kind of recreate what it was that was lost.”
Alyan—who has published three books of poetry—moves the reader lyrically through multiple storylines, continents, and political contexts to depict how families carry their history, through major turning points as well as the everyday. Starting in Nablus, Palestine, in 1963, Salt Houses paints a detailed and emotional portrait of the struggles and triumphs of creating home and reconciling that which no longer exists. It poses difficult and personal questions about what displaced people can give to their children, what they want to be remembered and what—consciously or unconsciously—slips through the cracks.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Sobbing School by Joshua Bennett
—Taylor Hosking, editorial fellow
If there’s one thing watching a lot of HGTV has taught me—and there is, now that I think about it, pretty much only one thing that watching a lot of HGTV has taught me—it’s that the kitchen is the most important room in the home. Bedrooms are great, Joanna and Chip will enthuse; bathrooms are necessary, Property Brother One and Property Brother Two will concede; living rooms (pardon, Family Spaces that have been laid out, ideally, according to a whimsical Open Concept) are definitely, Tarek and Christina will tell you, a crucial component of the whole deal. But the kitchen: That’s the non-negotiable. It’s the place where everyone, finally, comes together—the warm and beating heart of the home, whatever kind of home it may be.
HGTV’s kitchen-centricism is a (sort of) new idea—remember when fancy dining rooms were the thing to aspire to?—that is also an extremely old one. Food, after all, has been for millennia a driver of community. Consuming it and preparing it, in particular, have long encouraged cooperation and, with it, culture. Our DIY relationship with our meals is in fact, Felipe Fernández-Armesto argues in his 2001 book Near a Thousand Tables: A History of Food, part of what makes us human. “Cooking deserves its place as one of the great revolutionary innovations in history,” the Notre Dame history professor writes, "not because of the way it transforms food—there are plenty of other ways of doing that—but because of the way it transformed society.”
Fernández-Armesto makes his case with eloquence and, especially, with wit (“Lego cookery,” he calls the cuisine that calls itself “fusion”; “food-Fordism,” he dubs fast food, as a phenomenon). But Near a Thousand Tables isn’t (merely) another takedown of our current, highly industrialized food system. Fernández-Armesto instead considers food as a constant companion to human history; he examines it in relation to imperialism and to class. He sweeps across cultures and cuisines and eras with polymathic ease. The result, I should note, is definitely not traditional beach reading. But in another way, Near a Thousand Tables is a fitting book for summer, with the season's park picnics and family barbecues and time spent outdoors, among food both actual and potential. Its lessons have made me appreciate, even more fully, the things I cook and consume. Even if those things aren’t served, sadly, on a fashionable breakfast bar.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Mothers by Brit Bennett
—Megan Garber, staff writer
Grace and the Fever is the story of a girl who meets a member of her favorite boy band, Fever Dream, and gets drawn into their world. But there’s a twist—she’s super-active in the online community of fans who believe two of the band’s members are in a hidden gay relationship. (The storyline is seemingly inspired by the real-life conspiracy theory that One Direction’s Harry Styles and Louis Tomlinson are secretly in love.)
A fun, escapist read, Zan Romanoff’s book also evokes that particular feeling of teenage summers—of a compressed period of change, of a self that’s blooming in the heat. It’s a story of how people find themselves through the things they love, but also of the dangers of giving too much weight to the mythologies they create around them. “You can see something very clearly without knowing what it is,” Romanoff writes. “You can know what something is without understanding what it means. Something can be real, and not at all true.”
When Grace discovers the truth about the band she adores, she has to reconcile it with the story she’s been telling herself. She also has to reconcile the many different stories she’s been telling about who she is—to her friends, to the band, to her online compatriots. Romanoff’s sensitive and thoughtful portrayal of fandom gives it a literary weight equal to the importance it has in fans' lives.
Book I’m hoping to read: Marlena by Julie Buntin
—Julie Beck, senior associate editor
Maurice Sendak’s illustrations are so fantastic that it’s easy to overlook the brilliance of his design choices. Such decisions are quite meaningful, in fact. A story is subtly shaped by a book’s physical contours; there are layered meanings in the interplay between text and art; there’s utility built into the very act of turning the page—a gap in time and space that must be closed by the reader.
“My heartbeat actually changed with the excitement of discovering the picture-book medium with all its complexities,” the art historian Jane Doonan tells Jonathan Cott in his new book, There’s a Mystery There. Cott’s ode to Sendak is an engrossing extension of the 1976 Rolling Stone cover story he wrote about the illustrator, who died in 2012. To make sense of Sendak’s legacy, Cott revisits their conversations from that time and also turns to a panel of scholars, including Doonan.
What emerges is a clearer picture of Sendak the man, and also a riveting excavation of his approach to art. Sendak often described his work as an exploration of how children understand their own feelings of fear, anger, frustration, and boredom. But Cott sees more nuance than that, comparing the emotional resonance of Sendak’s work to a sense of “being outside and inside … at the same time.” This is why it makes sense in Sendak’s universe for a whale to spout chicken soup with rice, and for a glass milk bottle to be a skyscraper, and for a child’s bedroom to be suddenly canopied by trees. In childhood, the smallest and most ordinary spaces are infinite. And when the potential for adventure is everywhere, the distance between a precarious journey and a reassuring homecoming collapses.
Reading Cott’s book, I was struck by the wish to have known Sendak as a boy. Through his beloved canon, I realized, we already do.
Book I’m hoping to read: Gender and Jim Crow: Women and the Politics of White Supremacy in North Carolina, 1896-1920 by Glenda Gilmore
—Adrienne LaFrance, editor
Lidia Yuknavitch’s latest novel, a futuristic reimagination of the story of Joan of Arc, opens on a gruesomely detailed scene of burning flesh. In The Book of Joan, skin serves as canvas, screen, and page: Grafting artists are the Dickenses of their era, etching epic sagas and love tales onto their hairless clients’ scalps, necks, and thighs. The narrator, Christine, is one such artist, and she is methodically burning onto her own body a text, the titular “book”: the biography of a young environmental activist named Joan who has become a symbol of resistance as the world’s wealthy elites have their way with an ecologically devastated Earth. The “book” is a way for Christine to document the truth about Joan amid widespread propaganda that would cast her as a terrorist. It is also, as it were, a weapon of protest in a world taken over by sly, false narratives—ones that can move mass opinion, to toxic, even apocalyptic effect.
If this plotline sounds a bit self-serious, Yuknavitch smartly cuts it with mordant humor. She gives Christine, her wry narrator, the nickname “Christ.” She makes Joan crotchety, powerful but not particularly charismatic, and the horrid, dictatorial Jean de Men—a dangerously effective raconteur determined to squelch Joan—essentially, a popular romance novelist. Throughout, Yuknavitch is interested in examining what happens when language is torqued away from average people, and what results when they try to torque it back in their direction. With The Book of Joan, she proffers a thought-provoking meditation on the influence of story—on how it can manipulate and inspire, and how it can be used to resist.
Book I’m hoping to read: Notes of a Crocodile by Qiu Miaojin
—Jane Yong Kim, senior editor
Canada by Richard Ford
What if your parents were bank robbers? That's essentially the premise of this 2012 novel by Richard Ford, the writer best known for his four Frank Bascombe books, including the Pulitzer-winning Independence Day. While those works more broadly explored the anxieties and pieties of late-20th-century America, in Canada, Ford examines a different set of questions—about criminality, marriage, and the lessons a child learns from his parents—with impressive range.
Where the Bascombe books star a middle-aged, middle-class Southern transplant to the Northeast, Canada is the story of a working-class family in mid-century Montana told from the perspective of an orphaned teenager, Dell Parsons, who is sent north of the border after his parents are arrested. How do you cope with a rupture that sudden? How do you start over? What lessons do you learn from your parents, and what do you discard? In the narrator Parsons, Ford has created a new voice, one that’s entirely distinct from the now-familiar Bascombe. He's more wistful than wry, but no less engaging. And though Canada is tighter in scope than Ford's earlier works, it moves quickly and grabs you from the start.
Book I’m hoping to read: Anything Is Possible by Elizabeth Strout
—Russell Berman, senior associate editor
Published earlier this year, The Draw, a memoir by the cultural critic Lee Siegel, is deeply unsettling. The first 20 pages reveals the heart of the trauma: Siegel’s father, unable to repay advances on his salary, has gone bankrupt, while his mother devolves into a screaming, slapping hurricane of disappointment. From then on, Siegel spends his adolescence shrinking from his mother’s increasingly erratic power trips and struggling to accept his father’s shrinking sense of self. With uncomfortable composure and clarity, Siegel dissects his parents—labeling faults, diagnosing neuroses—and himself.
This book upset me, but I couldn’t put it down. Siegel’s clinical judgements and fluid transitions, combined with his almost humdrum childhood experiences, make The Draw an engrossing read.
Book I’m hoping to read: Presence in the Modern World by Jacques Ellul
—Katie Martin, designer
I'm a lifelong sci-fi fan, and as any lifelong sci-fi fan can tell you, the repetition of themes and tropes sometimes cripples the genre. So when I was introduced to Liu Cixin's The Three-Body Problem, the space-opera trilogy to which it belonged, and Chinese science fiction in general, it was like a window opened onto a new universe. Just the act of seeing fictional futures through an international lens added depth to my understanding of the genre. And it didn't hurt that the work was thrilling and fresh.
In between his own award-winning sci-fi and fantasy work, Ken Liu has been the chief promoter of the Chinese-American science fiction cultural exchange, so it's no wonder that he translated and edited Invisible Planets, a speculative fiction collection from new and classic Chinese authors. Included are a short story from Liu Cixin and a trippy time-bending Hugo-award-winning novella “Folding Beijing” from Hao Jingfang. Also of interest are the collection’s essays on Chinese sci-fi identity and the prominent role the genre has played in developing cultural identity.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Stone Sky by N.K. Jemisin
—Vann R. Newkirk II, staff writer
Moonglow is not a memoir and, despite what its cover would have you believe, it’s also not quite a novel. It falls somewhere in the nameless space between the two, recounting the story of a writer named Michael Chabon and his maternal grandparents in a way that feels true but that doesn’t always adhere to the facts.
The book centers on stories Chabon’s grandfather tells while lying on his deathbed, high on painkillers: stories about his childhood, his military service during World War II, his NASA career, his time in jail, his marriage. To the narration of these remembered episodes, Chabon brings the same vivid descriptive voice and engaging character development I loved in his earlier novels, crafting moving portraits of his grandparents as they grapple with the damage left by the war and navigate the fluctuations of their lives together. But Chabon abandons the more straightforward plot progressions he laid out in those books, instead jumping around in space and time and veering off on tangents in the distracted, non-linear style of real memory.
The resulting work is something new from Chabon, something beautiful, compelling, and sincere in the way of the very best family stories—and the best books.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Association of Small Bombs by Karan Mahajan
—Annika Neklason, editorial fellow
Thomas Friedman’s latest book has a simple thesis: that the characterizing feature of the 21st century is the convergence of the planet’s three largest forces (technology, globalization, and climate change), and that these accelerations are transforming the workplace, politics, geopolitics, ethics, and community. Friedman convincingly builds one big case for “being late”—for, essentially, pausing to reflect on and take stock of our current period of history. His methodical, explanatory approach, similar to the one he uses in his New York Times columns, will appeal to those who have a tendency to get caught up in the daily news cycle and don't take a moment to see broader patterns emerge.
Book I’m hoping to read: Option B: Facing Adversity, Building Resilience, and Finding Joy by Sheryl Sandberg
—Annabelle Timsit, editorial fellow
At one point in her powerful memoir, the New Yorker writer Ariel Levy observes that she had “managed to solve the Jane Austen problems that women have been confronting for centuries … in an entirely unconventional way.” And for a blip, that’s true. But then comes a crueler set of rules: those of nature, including fertility. Levy explores her friends’ battles with conception—before losing her own child. The book tracks her overwhelming grief and her efforts to accept it. (In one poignant passage, she writes of finding companionship from her cats, who are “no more baffled by agony than they were by dishwashing.”)
If you’re looking for sugared-up platitudes about life and its meaning, maybe pass on this one. It left me with a sadness hangover. But Levy’s memoir offers comfort for the realist: "Death comes for us,” she reminds the reader. “You may get 10 minutes on this earth or you may get 80 years but nobody gets out alive.” That rule very much still applies.
Book I’m hoping to read: Exit West by Mohsin Hamid
—Caroline Mimbs Nyce, assistant editor
When I read it earlier this year, I fell hard for Elif Batuman's debut novel, The Idiot. So I was excited, this summer, to delve into her earlier book, The Possessed: Adventures With Russian Books and the People Who Read Them. The nonfiction collection’s unusual subtitle gives some indication of its genre-defying contents: Published in 2010, it’s a first-person account of Batuman’s years as a graduate student in Russian literature that manages to be laugh-out-loud funny.
In The Possessed, as in The Idiot, Batuman punctuates the mundane with singular, sometimes self-deprecating, wit. “Air travel,” she writes, “is like death: Everything is taken from you.” Her ear for the absurd is matched by her ability to distill it into unflinchingly honest, delightfully readable prose replete with memorable characters. In Batuman’s capable hands, obsessive grad students appear as worthy of study as their dissertation subjects. Describing a private tour of the Hermitage Museum’s 18th-century wing, she contrasts her experience with that of a friend who, unlike Batuman, specializes in the period: “I soon felt the full weight of historical boredom on my soul. When I left the museum, she was gazing with a kind of rapt criticalness at the upholstery of an armchair embroidered in 1790 by pupils from the Smolny School for Aristocratic Young Ladies.” Happily, this book, as much about the accident-strewn path to adulthood as about history, is never boring.
Book I’m hoping to read: Fear City by Kim Phillips-Fein
—Amy Weiss-Meyer, associate editor
Exit West by Mohsin Hamid
Mohsin Hamid’s novel Exit West is many things: It’s a window into the daily lives, mundane and beautiful and horrifying, of Nadia and Saeed, two students living through their unnamed country’s civil war. The bombs, death, tragedy, and fear intersperse with work and a budding romance. It’s also a story of magical escape, which starts when Nadia and Saeed utilize mystical doors that instantly transport them away from one danger and often into another—first Greece, then the United Kingdom, and eventually the United States. Finally, it reflects on what it takes to make a new place home, and whether that is even possible.
While Hamid’s plot takes the reader along a geographic journey, it’s his protagonists’ emotional and psychological arcs that provide the story’s real narrative. Hamid weaves in acknowledgements of the physical and external hardships and dangers associated with refugee life, but his complicated portrayal of how two people, bound by extreme circumstance, must try to reinvent themselves in new places prove to be the most illuminating part of Exit West.
Through their meeting and subsequent flight, Hamid uses Nadia and Saeed to explore questions of religion, love, family, gender, and migration. It’s a tall task that the book delivers on gracefully and thoughtfully.  
Book I’m hoping to read: The Color of L​aw: A Forgotten History of How Our Government Segregated America by Richard Rothstein
—Gillian B. White, senior associate editor


Almost 10 years ago, Martyn Waites, a British crime writer, was having coffee with his editor. Waites, who was at something of a loose end project-wise, was looking for new ideas. His editor, though, was looking for a woman. Or, more specifically, a high-concept female thriller writer who could be the U.K.’s Karin Slaughter or Tess Gerritsen.
“I said I could do it,” Waites recalls. His editor was skeptical. But then Waites outlined an idea for a book based on a news story he’d once read, about a serial killer targeting pregnant women and cutting out their fetuses. The concept, he admits somewhat bashfully, was a gruesome one.
“That’s exactly what we’re looking for,” was his editor’s response.
That idea became The Surrogate, a crime thriller published in 2009, and Waites simultaneously became Tania Carver, his female alter ego. Before he started writing, he embarked on a period of research, reading novels by popular female crime writers, and made “copious notes” about their various heroes and villains. Waites was an actor before he was a writer, and “Martyn” and “Tania” soon became different personas in his head, almost like characters. He’d sit down to write as Tania and then realize the concept was much better suited to Martyn. Martyn books, he explains, “were more complex, more metaphorical. The kind of things I like in writing.” Tania books were simpler: mainstream commercial thrillers aimed at a female audience. And they rapidly became more successful than any of Waites’s previous books had been.
Women Are Writing the Best Crime Novels
The case of a male author using a female pseudonym to write fiction was relatively unheard of when Tania Carver emerged, but the explosion of female-oriented crime fiction in the last five years has led to an increasing number of male authors adopting gender-neutral names to publish their work. Last month, The Wall Street Journal’s Ellen Gamerman considered the phenomenon, interviewing a number of writers who fessed up to being men: Riley Sager (Todd Ritter), A.J. Finn (Daniel Mallory), S.J. Watson (Steve Watson), J.P. Delaney (Tony Strong), S.K. Tremayne (Sean Thomas). The trend is ironic, Gamerman pointed out, because the history of fiction is littered with women writers adopting male or gender-neutral pseudonyms to get their work published, from the Brontë sisters to J.K. Rowling.
This shift in fortunes can be attributed to a handful of factors. While exact numbers are hard to source, women readers have come to dominate fiction, where they’re widely touted as representing as much as 80 percent of the market. And while crime fiction and psychological thrillers are often associated with male readers, women read most of those, too—between 60 and 80 percent. Dr. Melanie Ramdarshan Bold, a lecturer in publishing and book culture at University College London, told me that women also prefer to read books by women, citing a Goodreads survey that found 80 percent of a new female author’s readership is likely to be female.
The last few years, in other words, have seen a significant reorientation of the crime-fiction landscape, to the point where male writers might consider themselves at a disadvantage. The news that some are choosing to disguise their gender was met with triumph by some commentators, who interpreted it as proof that the literary tables had turned. It prompted eyerolling by others, who noted the irony of men trying to enter a genre of stories about “dead or missing women” that women authors and readers had only recently reclaimed as their own.
But the success of writers like Gillian Flynn and Paula Hawkins and Karin Slaughter isn’t just due to the fact that they’re women. Rather, it’s that the books they write often interpret the world through an unmistakably female lens. Waites quotes an adage that the difference between crime writers is that a male writer will note what a crime looks like, whereas a female writer will explore what it feels like. Finding success in contemporary crime fiction, then, isn’t just about adopting a gender-neutral name. It’s about writers comprehending why women are so compelled by stories about brutal, graphic violence in the first place.
* * *
One of the earliest examples of a crime story was told by a woman, Scheherazade, who staves off her execution in The Arabian Nights with “The Three Apples.” In the tale, a fisherman finds a locked box that contains the dismembered body of a young woman, and a vizier is tasked with finding the murderer. The roots of the first female detective novels, the scholar Adrienne E. Gavin has written, are in Gothic novels like Ann Radcliffe’s 1794 work The Mysteries of Udolpho, where women are “victims of crime and held captive, but also escape through proto-detective methods to triumph in the end.”
The most influential female crime writers, though, emerged in the Golden Age of Detective Fiction in the 1920s and ’30s, when Agatha Christie, Dorothy L. Sayers, Margery Allingham, Josephine Tey, Ngaio Marsh, and others perfected the art of the whodunnit. Their heroes were frequently male, like the detectives Hercule Poirot, Albert Campion, and Lord Peter Wimsey, and when novels were centered around female protagonists those women tended to be atypical investigators. The rise of hardboiled detective fiction by authors such as Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler, Gavin argues, made the female sleuth “a less threatening figure: elderly, amateur, and detective by accident rather than design.”
But women readers were no less intrigued. In Christie’s work in particular they found an attention to detail and a deft understanding of the nuances of society in early 20th-century England, in addition to meticulous plotting. (Christie reportedly considered publishing her first novel under a male pseudonym, but couldn’t decide between Martin West or Mostyn Grey and so elected to use her own name instead.) Then, in the 1940s and ’50s, as male crime writers created prototypically masculine characters in the wake of two world wars, women writers like Dorothy B. Hughes and Vera Caspary wrote fiction more rooted in psychological suspense, with more complex female characters.
Sarah Weinman, the editor of the anthology Women Crime Writers, says one factor that defines these books is “a tremendous lack of sentimentality.” At that time, she explains, “the men writing were the romantics. The women just told it like it was. They saw it, they relayed it, and they didn’t sugarcoat it.” That pragmatism can be felt today in some of the most successful works of crime fiction. Writing in The Atlantic last year about women crime novelists, Terrence Rafferty noted that this new breed of writers “don’t much believe in heroes, which makes their kind of storytelling perhaps a better fit for these cynical times. Their books are light on gunplay, heavy on emotional violence.”
But contemporary female crime writers—particularly Karin Slaughter, best-known for her Will Trent series—don’t necessarily stint on the physical violence either. And paradoxically, that may be another thing that makes them so compelling. Women readers, Weinman notes, have always been drawn to darker stories. “There’s a running trope,” she says, “that the gorier the serial-killer narrative, the more likely that little old ladies are reading it.” One of the biggest surprises for Waites when he adopted the persona of Tania Carver was learning how much women readers enjoyed, even craved, brutality in stories. At one event, a woman asked him if his books were particularly violent, adding, before he could respond, “Because I’ll read them if they are.” Slaughter, who’s sold more than 35 million copies of her crime novels, is so regularly asked why her books include such graphic depictions of violence that there’s a section about it on her website.
More recently, women writers have been exploring abusive acts within a more intimate environment—the home. In the last five years, the stratospheric success of books like Gillian Flynn’s Gone Girl (reportedly the 25th bestselling book in history) and Paula Hawkins’s The Girl on the Train has sparked a new subset of crime fiction that the author Julia Crouch has named “domestic noir.” Books in this genre, Dr. Ramdarshan Bold says, “tend to focus on the female experience, in domestic settings.” They feature female protagonists, and often explore—in addition to criminality—the nuances of relationships and marriage, areas that Bold says have been “largely missing from popular crime novels in the past.”
The notable success of such books in the market has inspired a fleet of imitators, and has led some to question the propriety of men attempting to break into the genre under the guise of gender-neutral pseudonyms. “They’re not lying, exactly,” Jezebel’s Kelly Faircloth wrote. “It’s just that if you’re idly browsing in Barnes and Noble, looking for a Gone Girl-style read, you won’t encounter any immediate tells. One of the authors featured has gone so far as to try on a bra so he didn’t make any obvious mistakes that might throw female readers out of the story. Wonder if he also gets the infuriating emails or the creepy DMs or the generally patronizing bullshit?”
* * *
The practice of using pseudonyms in popular fiction is a common one. Authors, Weinman explains, will often change their pen name if works published under their previous name haven’t sold particularly well. She points to Todd Ritter, who published an antebellum mystery under the name Alan Finn before rebooting once again as the ambiguously gendered Riley Sager. “My name had become somewhat of a liability,” Ritter explained in a blog post introducing Finn. “And, since we were looking for a new publisher, one could argue that editors would be willing to go with someone who had a clean slate, rather than a critically acclaimed author with a spotty sales record.”
Final Girls, Riley Sager’s first novel, is a hit, having been praised by Stephen King as “the first great thriller of 2017,” and touted by Whoopi Goldberg on The View. The book is about the lone survivor of a horrific “movie-scale massacre” who’s attempting to move on from her traumatic past when she discovers more women are being found dead. “We were, for whatever reason, the lucky ones who survived when no one else had,” the protagonist, Quincy, explains. “Pretty girls covered in blood.” The book is self-aware about its use of a horror-movie trope that regularly inflicts violence and torture on women. But Ritter’s adoption of a female persona to publish the book raises complex questions about who should tell stories about brutalized female bodies. Is it somehow less gratuitous when women are writing these novels? Or, given that so many women readers are enjoying them regardless, is it just a harmless ploy to reach a bigger audience?
Queries about what’s appropriate and not have long plagued this corner of the industry. Ten years ago, the book world erupted in a debate over whether women authors were too violent in their treatment of their female victims. When the Scottish author Val McDermid was criticized by the crime writer Ian Rankin for her graphic depictions of violence, McDermid struck back. “There is still a funny notion that women should not write violent fiction, and yet women more often than not are the victims of sexual violence,” she told The Guardian. “So what are we saying—that the ones most likely to experience it should not write about it?”
The question of why women enjoy reading about violence inflicted on women is a complex one. Hawkins, in previous interviews, has pointed out that women are simply looking for stories that align with their own experiences of the world. “Men tend to be attacked by strangers, women tend to be attacked by people they know.” Most women, she added, “are made to think about themselves in terms of what they should be doing to prevent violence happening to them.” Part of the explosion of domestic noir and other female-driven books is surely that they interpret violence from a female perspective, giving voice and thoughts to victims who’ve been more typically portrayed in crime fiction as bodies on a cold slab.
But the enjoyment of crime fiction also aligns with a desire to see justice served. Law & Order: SVU, a show that regularly portrays brutal sexual and physical violence against women, is also hugely popular among female viewers. On the one hand, it takes the abuse of women seriously. But on the other, it creates a neat framework where cases are solved and perpetrators are punished. The same applies to to books. Crime fiction, Weinman says, offers order: “Reading about a serial killer who gets caught, or a missing child who’s found, or a woman who’s brutally murdered and the case is solved, there’s an ending, and some catharsis. Narrative provides a trajectory where real life can’t.”
There’s arguably an implicit trust when women read thrillers written by women—a mutual understanding that each is taking the subject personally, and bringing their own experiences to the stories at hand. “Women authors,” Slaughter explains on her site, bring “a different perspective” to stories about abuse and sexual assault. That’s not to say male writers can’t empathize or can’t channel the same kind of emotional intelligence the best female writers bring to crime fiction. Waites says he’s particularly proud of one of his Tania Carver books that deals with the topic of domestic violence. But he also acknowledges that he reads crime fiction by female authors and is aware that many of them write scenes he would feel uncomfortable trying to get away with.
Ultimately, Weinman says, the trend for female-oriented psychological thrillers may have crested, and writers and publishers will soon be jumping on to the next bandwagon. But the long history of crime fiction, and its relatively recent foray onto mainstream readers’ bookshelves, proves that women have always been compelled by stories about murder, which may, however strangely, make them feel safe. At least part of the recent popularity of thrillers by female authors has to do with understanding that writers are bringing their own lived experiences of the world to their work, and those experiences align with their readers’. For male writers, replicating their success is a lot more complicated than simply adopting a pseudonym.

