
The actor Tony Booth, who starred in the 1960s TV sitcom Till Death Us Do Part, has died aged 85.
Booth played the “Scouse git” son-in-law of the foul-mouthed Alf Garnett (Warren Mitchell) in the popular comedy, before becoming better known in later life for being the father of Cherie Blair.
A committed Labour supporter, having joined the party when he was 15, Booth did not let family ties get in the way of him criticising Tony Blair’s government, his interventions often proving embarrassing for the prime minister and his wife.
The actor married four times and had eight daughters. He was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s in 2004 and had experienced heart problems.
A statement released on behalf of his wife, Steph Booth, said: “It is with sadness we announce the death of Antony Booth, actor and political campaigner. Tony passed away late last night with close family members in attendance. The family ask for their privacy to be respected at this time.”
Booth was born in Liverpool in 1931. He discovered a talent for acting and, during his national service, entertained his fellow conscripts in amateur productions.
Cherie Booth was born in Bury, Lancashire, in 1954, during Tony’s marriage to Gale Booth. By the time she was five, her father had left.
He was an early authentic working-class voice on television and his portrayal in Till Death Us Do Part of the long-haired Liverpudlian Mike, always at odds with his bigoted father-in-law, reflected his own political beliefs.
These beliefs saw him become a thorn in the side to his real-life son-in-law when Blair’s New Labour government swept into No 10 in 1997.
He railed against “androids” at Labour’s Millbank HQ and accused the prime minister of stuffing the House of Lords with “Tony’s Cronies”.
His daughter was not exempt from criticism, as when he attacked the couple’s decision to send their eldest son to the selective, grant-maintained London Oratory school.
During the firefighters’ strike in 2002, he said the government had “ruthlessly” squashed their pay demands. He also accused it of being “prepared to throw away billions” on the Iraq war, rather than spending the money on pensioners.
His son-in-law made light of the criticism, with Blair once saying: “I don’t think it would be the very first time I had a little bit of grief from Tony along the way.”
At the Labour party conference in 2002, Blair said he was once given a V-sign by an elderly man with grey hair who was “respectable enough” to have been his father-in-law.
Turning to his wife, the prime minister added: “I should have given him one in return, shouldn’t I?”
Despite political differences, Booth remained close to his daughter and was with her and her husband at his constituency election count in the 2005 general election.
As well as Till Death Us Do Part, Booth had a host of film and TV roles during the 1960s, including playing Malcolm Wilkinson in Coronation Street.
His third marriage was to actress Pat Phoenix, who played Elsie Tanner in Coronation Street and died from cancer a week after their wedding in 1986. She was said to have become the love of his life after he met her as a young man. He went out with her again in his 50s and nursed her through her illness. He married his fourth wife, Stephanie Buckley, in 1998.
Booth enjoyed a revival in his television career in the 1990s, with roles in Holby City, The Bill and Mersey Beat.


!!!@@@$$$

It’s easy to forget, in 2017, how atomised the early grime scene was. There was no social media, no YouTube, no interest from the established music industry, no technology to broadcast the music to the UK or the world beyond. Grime was hyperlocal.
As Kano has put it, MCs and DJs could quickly become “local-famous”, but their bars and identities would resonate only as far as their pirate radio aerials could transmit – usually a few miles at most – before their voices were submerged in static and sank beneath the waves. Tinchy Stryder has told me about being the talk of his secondary school the day after he appeared on Deja Vu FM; Wiley would get mobbed walking down Roman Road in Bow. But beyond that narrow radius, it was hard to make an impact.
But as UK garage waned and the next generation developed the colder, darker sound that would become grime, a low-budget, DIY infrastructure began to sprout up, and artists slowly started making connections beyond their postcode. There were big, scene-uniting raves such as Sidewinder; homemade, magazine-style DVDs such as Risky Roadz; the punk-like magazine RWD, cobbled together in the back room of a record shop in Crystal Palace; and the cable TV station Channel U, which broadcast the first music videos by these usually-unsigned MCs and crews.
While beefs and diss tracks – between crews, between areas of London – were common, the symbol of a tentatively emerging scene unity came in the form of the “all-star” or “link-up” tunes, where five or more MCs from different crews would come together to each do a verse on a hot new instrumental. These were crucial in starting the process of binding together grime’s first wave, but in 2003-2006, grime was a long way from the united front we see today, when the likes of Wiley, Giggs, Lethal Bizzle, BBK, Stormzy and Krept & Konan all routinely put in guest appearances at each other’s concerts. The all-star track is also perhaps the closest that grime manages to get, in song form, to capturing the frantic, pass-the-mic hype of a live pirate radio or rave set.
Perhaps the greatest all-star track – and for south Londoners, one of the greatest grime tunes of all time – is Southside Allstars, created and curated by UK garage-into-grime duo Nikki S and Nyke, aka Milkymans. These days the duo are both cabbies – a career move foreshadowed by Southside when Nyke, the fulcrum of the track, reels off an A-Z of some of the less glamorous parts on the less glamorous side of the river Thames, interspersed with verses from no fewer than 15 south London MCs. Nikki S and Nyke parked up their cabs in a quiet side street in Shoreditch so we could sit in the back and talk through the history of the all-star tune.
“The thing that made it look mad aggy was the scenes with all the kids,” Nyke recalls of Southside’s video. “Especially Fugi’s ‘G to the I’ lines in the tunnel, which would become famous in folklore. He was local, so he could literally whistle and all the boys from his estate came down from nowhere. While they were setting up the shoot, we had a hundred little yutes in the drive-thru McDonalds in Wandsworth, and every little boy was robbing all the stuff out of there. It was chaos.”
“It weren’t really a club tune,” laughs Nikki. “It was so grimey. It was a statement really.” Of all the guest verses, it is the one by So Solid Crew’s Asher D that best sums up the need for a bit of chest-beating neighbourhood pride – “I just want to stand correct for my block” – because, although the tune was bringing MCs from different parts of south London together, Southside was a response to, and intensified, the south-versus-east London tensions of the early 2000s.
So Solid Crew had dominated the MC-driven side of UK garage so completely, drawing envious glances from their east London rivals, that, according to Nyke, all the east London top dogs, including Geeneus from Rinse FM and Diesel from Deja Vu FM, had a “secret meeting” in which they plotted to build up an alternative power base. “They basically said: ‘We’re going to build a fence up around east London now, start burrowing in, and make our own sound.’” Alias, the respected early grime producer who made the Southside instrumental, deliberately neglected to stamp his Alias audio-logo on the track as he usually would. “He was worried that his tunes would get shut down by Slimzee and Geeneus,” Nyke says. “I remember the east London artists were ringing up our manager, Sponge, because he would be orchestrating raves still in south, and they were like: ‘Is it cool to come south? Is it beef?’”
The guest MCs on Southside had to chip in a couple of hundred pounds each for the right to be on the tune, in order to help pay for the video. “They were about to go on a historic tune,” recounts Nyke. “It’s about to go on Channel U!” This model for all-star MC tunes became a staple of Channel U and the cottage industry in grime DVDs, and a showcase and a symbol of the scene’s growing confidence and ambition. The videos put faces and more recognisable personalities to voices previously heard only on pirate radio or vinyl. In many respects, these were the seeds of grime’s move from an underground sound to the increasingly big-money pop genre it has become today.
A slew of other all-star tracks dominated the airwaves in those formative years. South London crew Essentials produced a track called Headquarters, later renamed State Your Name, which required each MC to present themselves as if in a military line-up: “What’s your name soldier, state your location, who are you repping?” At which point they’re ordered to “drop and give me 16 [bars]”. Jammer’s sensational Destruction VIP did a similar thing with rival east London crews that Southside had done for south. The explosive Pow! (Forward), marshalled by Lethal Bizzle, was so big it got banned from clubs and made a rare foray (for the time) into the Top 10. In a genre overwhelmingly dominated by male MCs and DJs, the Female Allstars’ 2006 track Grab That Mic was a celebration of some great overlooked female MCs such as No Lay and Lioness, a feat repeated with Rock the Mic in 2012.
In 2005, Nikki S and Nyke followed up Southside’s success with another classic, geezer-ish Channel U-era all-star tune, Ska Riddim, with its jaunty ska sample, artillery-fire drums and appearances from Channel U favourites such as Flirta D, Doctor, Bashy and Big Narstie. “On Ska Riddim, you’ll notice that again, it’s all south and west London MCs on there,” says Nyke. “I asked east MCs! We reached out. Like, I put a call into D Double E, but because – there’s no other way to say this – because of who our management were, and the relationship with the So Solid dynasty ... they were all shook [scared] of So Solid.”
More than 10 years on, following grime’s many ups and downs and ascent to pop ubiquity, the all-star tune has sadly fallen into disuse – chiefly, you have to assume, because the likes of Stormzy and Skepta consider themselves too big to consider sharing space on a track with more than one or two other artists. Features and collaborations are carefully chosen, and approaching a track mob-handed has less appeal. It’s a shame, because all-star tracks are grime at its best, as some recent exceptions to the rule show: P Money’s 10 out of 10 and Skepta’s That’s Not Me (All-Star Remix) bang much harder than a lot of their competitors. And this week, another all-star revival heralds the comeback of the two MCs most associated with the format: at the instigation of SBTV’s Jamal Edwards, Nikki S and Nyke have just come out with Ska 2, 12 years after the original.
The tune brings together three generations of MCs – the hosts and Asher D from the late UK garage days; Little Dee, Bossman Birdie, Scrufizzer and Flirta D from grime’s Channel U heyday; and the next generation, in Jammz, Novelist, PK, Kwamz and Yizzy, “the youngers who grew up watching Southside and the first Ska Riddim on TV”. It’s a welcome return to collective lyrical energy, its different styles and flows rubbing up against each other, in an era of solo MC superstars. Maybe it will lead to more – although Nyke has another theory about why these all-star tracks don’t happen so much anymore.
“I’d forgotten about this, but they’re a fucking logistical nightmare, man,” he laughs. “They will put years on you. They take so much time, money and effort to organise – and back then we had a manager who was also putting people under pressure. And Sponge was a big guy: you didn’t fuck around with Sponge.”
!!!@@@$$$

Covers sell books. But in the case of Hillary Clinton’s memoir What Happened, you can’t help thinking that the book’s sales in the UK are despite the jacket treatment, not because of it. Whereas the US jacket oozes the gravitas you expect from the woman who stood up to Donald Trump, the UK jacket has all the power of a shrugged “meh”.
The book is published worldwide by Simon & Schuster, and the company’s US division opted for bold lettering on a white-and-blue background (incorporating the Democrats’ traditional colour). The design screams its serious credentials: this, it tells the reader, is The Book by the woman everyone expected to be a shoo-in for the Oval Office, a woman defined by her service in husband Bill’s and Barack Obama’s administrations.
It is a cover worthy of the memoir that has a place in academic libraries. Weight is given to the title, What Happened. A simple statement, it hangs above Clinton’s name, reflecting the question on the lips of everyone who awoke on 9 November to find Donald Trump was soon to get access to the nuclear codes.
But the UK cover … where do you begin? Any sense that Clinton is laying it on the line, or even offering answers, is washed away by a design so hackneyed it even has a generic politico-at-a-rally headshot, albeit one in which Hillary’s firm-lipped expression is reminiscent of the look your mum gave you the first time you barrelled home drunk. Not only that, but the background colour is as pallid as one of her pant suits, and the title – a question on the lips of everyone in the UK as well as the US – is squirrelled away beneath her name.
When I ask, “What happened?” her publisher responds with a terse refusal to comment. But it raises the question: why did the Americans get it right and the British so wrong when UK book design is supposedly the envy of the world?
One jacket designer, Stuart Bache, says the gulf between British and US design has narrowed in recent years, especially in literary fiction. Traditionally, US design tended towards literal interpretation, driven, Bache believes, by the complexity of the US market: the image that motivates readers in southern California to pick up a copy of a book is likely to be different to what appeals to readers in South Carolina. As a result, US jackets have tended to appeal to the lowest common denominator, and that does not make for good design.
“It’s a complicated [market], so the design becomes simpler and focuses on broader appeal,” Bache says. “However, things have shifted in the last few years,” he adds. “There are a lot more similarities now, particularly in literary novels where the luxury of creating much more elegant, beautiful covers has been afforded to the books.”
The designer and illustrator Neil Gower believes US designers have upped their game because of the explosion in digital books. “I think ebooks and the internet have definitely focused publishers’ attention on making books beautiful, covetable objects again,” he says. Publishers on both sides of the Atlantic realise that to justify the cost of a hardback, a book needs to be more than a container of words. It has to be an object of beauty in its own right, he says.
Aided by advances in print technology, British and US designers are playing with things such as spot-varnishes, embossing, debossing and foils to make books physically arresting, tactile objects. Gower says: “The brief for my own book, As Kingfishers Catch Fire – in collaboration with Alex Preston – was to produce the most beautiful book of 2017, and the attention to detail extended way beyond the cover to the endpapers, the quality of the paper and colour-plates. I feel privileged to be designing books in this era.”
Similar ideas are appearing on both sides of the Atlantic: hand-drawn typography, bold colours and a handcrafted feel to the illustrations. Images are de rigueur. And, says Jason Arthur, a publishing director based in the UK at Penguin Random House, US designers are leaping at the creative opportunities. “I used to think British book design was the best in the world and that the Americans were 20 years behind,” he says. “But that has changed in the last two or three years, especially with fiction from the US that put our designs to shame.”
Arthur knows what he is talking about. His division of Penguin Random House has been responsible for jackets that have left US editions looking dowdy. A case in point was the UK edition of Harper Lee’s late bloomer Go Set a Watchman, which cleverly integrated the title of To Kill a Mockingbird, with a nod to 50s film posters. It veers on the right side of nostalgia. Not so the US cover by Jarrod Taylor. Drab blue with the Caterina typeface – which, despite the retro feel, is less than 20 years old – it is as appealing as a book gathering dust at the back of the school library. It falls on the wrong side of that nostalgia line. One designer, Paul Sahre, told Wired the cover was “a pastiche and a parody”.
One book a US designer got right was George Saunders’ novel Lincoln in the Bardo, says Arthur. The hardback, designed by Barbara M Bachman, features a pastoral cover illustration that Saunders himself praised for its “feeling of mystery”. “It wasn’t just a picture of Lincoln,” he told New York magazine’s Vulture. “I see it as being at dusk, and I thought it picked up the feeling of America in the mid-19th century – half pastoral, half burgeoning industrial.”
Saunders didn’t say what he thought of the UK cover, but one can’t help thinking he would have been disappointed. With its spindle of branches and portrait of Abe Lincoln’s son, it reveals little about the book, but plenty about the present obsession of British designers with William Morris – typified by Sarah Perry’s bestselling The Essex Serpent.
That a jacket should reveal something about the content is often the beef authors have with designs, which explains why many seem more relaxed with their US covers than their UK ones. By telling the story – or at least hinting at it – there is less likelihood the jacket will be interchangeable with everything else in their section of WH Smith.
Mick Herron, whose Jackson Lamb novels were first published by Soho in the US before becoming a word-of-mouth hit here, says the US design clearly positions the books for US readers whose knowledge of British spies might only extend to James Bond. “The two recent ones have a sniper-scope emblem, which doesn’t actually reflect anything in the content, but gets a basic message across,” says the Newcastle-born writer. “I don’t really get consulted at all,” he adds, and is happy to leave it to his publisher. “I don’t have much of an eye for that sort of thing.”
Not everyone is so laid-back about covers, and with good reason. As the novelist Jane Harris explains, gender can make a huge difference to how a book is packaged on both sides of the Atlantic. “If you are a woman writer, they seem to always want to put a woman on the cover,” she says. So determined was she that this should not happen to her latest novel, Sugar Money – about two brothers sent to Grenada to reclaim 42 slaves for their French master – that when she finished the final chapter, she tweeted: “Put a woman on the cover of this, suckers.”
Her publisher, Faber, delivered: in the UK the books has an abstract design of sugar cane in eye-popping black, red and gold. But Harris is not hopeful the design will be taken up in the US. “They seem to be wary of anything that is in any way abstract, or risks being confusing,” she says. “If you are writing about slavery, they will want to put a cliched image on the cover.”
In recent years in the US and UK, the people with most influence over a book jacket have been those who choose stock for supermarkets and chains such as Waterstones and WH Smith. A few years ago, a publisher at one of the “big three” houses (Penguin Random House, Hachette and HarperCollins) told me that they had presented a new book at a meeting with the buyer from a well-known retailer. An order from the chain could propel the book into the Top 10, but there was a problem: they hated the jacket. The publisher returned to her art department and commissioned a second design. Again, the buyer rejected it – the cover was still wrong. In all, the publisher had the jacket redesigned five times, until, as a joke, she took the original cover back to the buyer, who asked: “Why didn’t you bring me this first? I love it.”
The story is telling of publishers’ secret contempt for the retailers they must woo. Whatever creative inspiration designers may have, what matters more to some retailers is that the average punter will know what “type” of book they are getting, hence the number of books with Jack Reacher-style silhouetted men on the cover, or Fifty Shades wannabes with muted pictures of fishnets and ties.
This tendency to avoid originality does backfire. One novelist, who asked not to be named, complains bitterly that a mutilated doll on the cover of her book in the US killed her career there. “It had no direct relevance to the content, and suggested the story is far creepier than in fact it was,” she says. “I was dropped by the publisher because the book didn’t sell. I can’t help feeling the cover did the book no favours and was actually off-putting.”
Her situation is becoming less common, says Jason Arthur, and he believes that a new generation of US designers is producing world-beating work. “There is a younger generation coming through who are more outward-looking in inspiration,” he says. These designers are as inspired by gaming and film as they are books, and their work reflects this broadening of viewpoints.
And, he adds, this improvement means that more US designs are making it into British bookshops. He cites The Readymade Thief by Augustus Rose as one example. “We saw the US cover and liked it, and came up with 20 different jacket designs of our own, but the American jacket was the best, so we decided to go with that.” It’s just a pity that no one thought this about Clinton’s memoir.
!!!@@@$$$

The reviews may have been mixed, but producer-director-writer Matthew Vaughn once again demonstrates his savvy populist instinct. The darkly comic spy adventure opens in the UK with £6.2m, with Wednesday and Thursday previews taking that tally to a five-day £8.53m. This compares with a £3.56m debut for 2015’s Kingsman: The Secret Service, or £4.24m including previews.
Ignoring previews, The Golden Circle has opened bigger than a string of 2017’s aspiring summer blockbusters: Alien: Covenant, Pirates of the Caribbean: Salazar’s Revenge, Wonder Woman, The Mummy, Transformers: The Last Knight and War for the Planet of the Apes. It also opened a whole lot better than the latest from Vaughn’s former film-making partner Guy Ritchie, King Arthur: Legend of the Sword (£2.5m including previews).
Vaughn can now fairly claim to have the second-biggest spy franchise in the marketplace after James Bond – in the UK, at any rate. The last Mission: Impossible movie, Rogue Nation, began here in July 2015 with £5.35m including just over £1m in previews.
Dropping 53% in its third frame, the Stephen King adaptation It added another £2.85m at the weekend, taking the 17-day tally to £26.5m. That’s the highest ever gross for a horror film in the UK, unless you – perversely – count the supernatural Twilight franchise. It is the 11th-biggest hit of 2017 in the UK, behind Beauty and the Beast, Dunkirk, Despicable Me 3, Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 2, Spider-Man: Homecoming, La La Land, Fast & Furious 8, Sing, The Boss Baby and The Lego Batman Movie. It should overtake at least half of those titles by the end of its run. The film covers events in the first half of King’s book and a sequel, covering events occurring 27 years later, has been announced for September 2019.
Arthouse distributor Curzon made a rare foray into multiplex territory with sports drama Borg vs McEnroe, which contrasts the two famous tennis stars as they clash at the 1980 Wimbledon men’s final. But the rollout into 145 cinemas may have been too ambitious, given an opening weekend gross of just £102,000, including negligible previews. Site average is a poor £691. At the time, more than 17 million people viewed the match on BBC TV, and similar numbers have watched Andy Murray’s Wimbledon finals in recent years, but those sports fans are not necessarily cinemagoers. Fox will be looking at Curzon’s release campaign to avoid any pitfalls for its tonally very different tennis true tale Battle of the Sexes, starring Emma Stone and Steve Carell, out in November.
Cinema bookers have been pleasantly surprised by the success of In Between, a drama about three Palestinian women sharing an apartment in Tel Aviv. Plucky indie distributor Peccadillo released the film into seven cinemas at the weekend, garnering coverage from relatively mainstream outlets including Newsnight and Radio 4’s Woman’s Hour. Despite being stuck with split showtimes (sharing the screen with at least one other title) at all those sites, the film managed a £2,071 average, not counting previews. As a result, In Between expands to 27 cinemas for its second weekend.
Meanwhile, the film achieving the highest screen average this week was Lawrence of Arabia, which grossed more than £9,000 from its 70mm presentation at London’s BFI Southbank. (Kingsman: The Golden Circle has a higher per-cinema average, but that dilutes down when you count the actual screens it’s playing on.)
Thanks to the arrival of the new Kingsman film, the market rises by 23% from the previous frame, and is also 20% up on the equivalent weekend from 2017, when The Magnificent Seven failed to dislodge Bridget Jones’s Baby from the top spot. This coming weekend, three wide releases vie for audiences: Goodbye Christopher Robin, Reese Witherspoon comedy Home Again and the Flatliners remake. Cinema bookers will have higher hopes pinned on Blade Runner 2049, following a week later.
1. Kingsman: The Golden Circle, £8,525,664 from 602 sites (new)2. It, £2,852,965 from 578 sites. Total: £26,451,709 (3 weeks)3. Victoria and Abdul, £1,239,085 from 615 sites. Total: £4,831,777 (2 weeks)4. Mother!, £364,301 from 453 sites. Total: £1,668,307 (2 weeks)5. The Emoji Movie, £359,793 from 509 sites. Total: £14,043,072 (8 weeks)6. The Jungle Bunch, £288,417 from 521 sites. Total: £732,568 (2 weeks)7. American Assassin, £262,647 from 415 sites. Total: £1,371,723 (2 weeks)8. Despicable Me 3, £195,960 from 410 sites. Total: £46,717,650 (13 weeks)9. Dunkirk, £185,321 from 290 sites. Total: £56,086,005 (10 weeks)10. American Made, £151,960 from 248 sites. Total: £5,345,061 (5 weeks)
Maze, £123,985 from 65 sites (Ireland and Northern Ireland only)Borg vs McEnroe, £101,918 (including £1,788 previews) from 145 sitesNikka Zaildar 2, £64,701 from 17 sitesIn Between, £17,271 (including £2,776 previews) from 7 sitesBhoomi, £15,329 from 9 sitesVelipadinte Pusthakam, £14,856 from 44 sitesLawrence of Arabia, £9,359 from 1 siteOn Body and Soul, £9,035 from 10 sitesAy Lav Yu Tuu, £7,573 from 3 sitesOur Last Tango, £1,085 from 2 sitesAlmost Heaven, £739 from 1 site
•Thanks to comScore. All figures relate to takings in UK and Ireland cinemas.
!!!@@@$$$

Warner Brothers recently announced a release that combines both a “special edition” cut of Richard Donner’s 1978 blockbuster Superman: The Movie and an extended TV version that runs over three hours and was previously on television in 1982.
As the hefty box-office gross of even the abysmal Batman v Superman illustrated, there’s a lot of money to be made from even bad depictions of the Man of Steel (such as, you know, Zack Snyder’s Man of Steel). With that in mind, it’s not surprising this three-hour-plus cut of Superman is not the only alternate Superman movie cut out there. In 2006, as the world waited to be underwhelmed by Bryan Singer’s mostly forgotten reboot Superman Returns (which catapulted its star Brandon Routh to anonymity), Warner Brothers took advantage of the eternal market for Superman product with a restored version of Superman II, overseen by Donner.
Alternate cuts often dazzle cinephiles with their potential before disappointing them with their bloated reality. To cite a high-profile example, when Francis Ford Coppola finally got to release his director’s cut of Apocalypse Now, the overwhelming consensus was that the shorter, less crazily self-indulgent version of Coppola’s film was superior.
Alternate cuts often dazzle cinephiles with their potential before disappointing them with their bloated reality
Alternate cuts can drastically change how some cinematic masterpieces are seen. Before Annie Hall established the template for a lot of both contemporary romantic comedy and independent film (not to mention the next phase of Woody Allen’s career), it was a “free-associative project” with a working title of Anhedonia, which bore little resemblance to the proto rom-com it became. It originally ran almost an hour longer than the 93-minute version we all know and love.
Caddyshack is to bros what Annie Hall is to pretentious east coast intellectuals, but it was a very different proposition as well. According to comedy legend, the first cut of Caddyshack ran at four and a half hours. One of Bill Murray’s famous monologues lasted an entire half hour, until hard-nosed editors went in and transformed this shapeless mass of improvisation into a 93-minute movie. Caddyshack has been monetized and exploited relentlessly through the decades, but I doubt we’ll ever see the epic original cut, or a straight half hour of Murray riffing in one of his best and purest roles, though that would be the ultimate deleted scene.
That’s the thing about alternate cuts of famous or infamous movies: they hold out the exhilarating potential of being better than versions of movies we all seemingly know and love, but more often than not they’re poor relations that at best are self-indulgent and at worst terrible.
Richard Kelly’s gonzo 2006 satire Southland Tales, whose most famous set-piece features a feral-looking Justin Timberlake staring lecherously into the camera while lip-syncing to the Killers, was released to a chorus of boos when it premiered in a 160-minute unfinished version at 2006 Cannes. It bombed in a 145-minute theatrical cut, but the nice thing about cult films is that self-indulgences that were jeered in the past are often cheered in the present. The cult of Southland Tales is a cult of delirious excess, so the idea of even more crazy is irresistible to Richard Kelly die-hards.
We’re intrigued by alternate cuts of movies like Southland Tales, Annie Hall and Caddyshack. We may get to experience them at some point, but there are holy grails of the cinematic unseen that haven’t been shown in any version, director’s cut, theatrical, TV, edited or otherwise.
Orson Welles, for example, shot one of the most famous and notorious unreleased films of all time when he directed contemporary John Huston and a cast full of New Hollywood figures like Peter Bogdanovich over a period of years in the arty, very 1970s inside-show-biz melodrama The Other Side of the Wind. For decades, it seemed like the movie was cursed to forever go unfinished and unseen but that has changed over the past few years. In 2015, more than $400,000 was raised via crowd-funding to finish the film, but that doesn’t necessarily mean we’ll ever see an official release.
Even more promisingly for the morbidly curious, Jerry Lewis’s recent death at 91 renewed hope that we’ll someday get to see the ultimate unseen cut/unseen film: Lewis’s notorious 1973 Holocaust-themed drama The Day the Clown Cried. In 2016, 30 minutes of the film leaked on to YouTube, although it was taken down for copyright violation.
That’s a shame because that footage, incomplete and unfinished as it might have been, could very well be the only cut of The Day the Clown Cried anyone outside of Lewis’s inner circle will ever have the supremely questionable “honor” of seeing. Even that sliver of clown was a victim of international copyright law dictating that the unseen remain unseen, at least until there’s some money to be made from a release, as is obviously the case with the three-hour plus Superman, which has slightly more mainstream appeal than a Jerry Lewis movie even Jerry Lewis (who had a very high opinion of himself) thinks is terrible and should never be seen.
!!!@@@$$$

Kwame Kwei-Armah, the actor turned award-winning British playwright, has been announced as the new artistic director of the Young Vic in London. Kwei-Armah, who is currently the director of Baltimore’s Center Stage, will take over the prestigious theatre role next year.
Kwei-Armah wrote his first play, Bitter Herb, in 1998 and went on to be only the second black British playwright to have his work on at the West End, with his play Elmina’s Kitchen, which grappled with family and crime in Hackney’s so-called murder mile.
He will take over from David Lan, who will have been director of the Young Vic for 18 years when he steps down next year. Lan described the choice of Kwei-Amah to be his successor as “inspired”.
“To walk into the Young Vic is to come face to face with everything I love about theatre, so I am beyond humbled, if not a little scared,” Kwei-Armah said. “But to lead this magnificent theatre at this time in our nation’s history, after such a visionary as David, excites me beyond words. I can’t wait to get started.”
Kwei-Armah has held his role at Center Stage in Baltimore since 2011. His plays Elmina’s Kitchen, Fix Up and Statement of Regret were all staged at the National Theatre, and he has directed works in both the UK and the US, with his production of One Night in Miami at the Donmar Warehouse nominated for an Olivier award for best new play in 2016. He will also direct a new version of Ibsen’s The Lady from the Sea at the Donmar in October.
Raised in Southall, west London, he changed his name from Ian Roberts when he was 19 after tracing his family roots through the slave trade to Ghana. His experiences of growing up in Southall during the riots and witnessing the police and skinhead brutality against the black and Asian community had a profound effect on him, and formed the basis of his first play.
His first major TV role was as paramedic Finlay Newton in Casualty between 1999 and 2004, and it was during this time he gained prestige as one of Britain’s best emerging playwrights and directors. He was the chancellor of the University of the Arts London from 2010-15, and in 2012 was awarded an OBE for services to drama.
Patrick McKenna, chair of the Young Vic board, said that after meeting Kwei-Armah, the panel was “unanimous in its decision to appoint him as the next leader for this remarkable institution”.
McKenna added: “Kwame’s wealth of experience directing, writing and working with the local community in Baltimore and beyond will translate beautifully to his new role leading the work on the Young Vic’s three stages as well as its pioneering outreach and education work in London.”
!!!@@@$$$

The centrepiece of this year’s Belgrade international theatre festival was a 24-hour performance of Jan Fabre’s majestic, exhausting and exhilarating Mount Olympus: To Glorify the Cult of Tragedy. A hallucinatory vision of Homeric themes and characters, it presented a Dionysian orgy of madness, murder, incest, feminism, music (rave and arias) and extreme sports (skipping, dancing, fighting, loving). The show, which has had only a handful of performances in Europe since its premiere in 2015, started at 6pm on Saturday night and featured three 40-minute “dream times” during which the actors slept on stage. Durational theatre it’s called: the sort of event that tests your powers of endurance as well as the actors’. And it’s been going on a long time – the Greek festivals themselves were durational.
The modern template for all this is Robert Wilson’s KA MOUNTAIN AND GARDenia TERRACE, performed nonstop on seven hills in Shiraz, Iran, over seven days in 1972 (Wilson himself was hauled off to hospital after four days). In 1979, Ken Campbell had a 24-hour blast with Neil Oram’s The Warp, a 10-play rough theatre epic featuring Bill Nighy and Jim Broadbent. It started at 10am and the audience were on their feet for the duration: we were sustained by beer and sausage breaks. The sheer music-hall madness of that trip through the hippie underworld made it like an acid Archers. In 1985, Peter Brook’s eight-hour epic The Mahabharata was first staged late at night at a quarry in Avignon with the dawn coming up over the battlefield.
That year, Jan Fabre – the Flemish artist, director and cultural provocateur – arrived in London with his Antwerp company to put on the show The Power of Theatrical Madness, an amazing résumé of, and challenge to, the already fading international avant-garde theatre of which he is both the greatest critic and exponent. But at four and a half hours, that was durational theatre for wimps.
The 2,000-strong audience for the 24-hour Mount Olympus were encouraged to come and go throughout and could either leave the grim fortress of one of Europe’s largest conference centres, situated on the south bank of the Sava, or doss down on the plentiful sofas and sun loungers scattered through the building. But this was not a jolly sort of “sleepover” show like Duckie’s Lullaby at the Barbican in 2011. A huge screen in the bar area relayed the entire performance as streamed live on national television, punctuated with interviews with critics and artists.
About 13 hours into the show, I sat in the auditorium and watched the actors sleeping. It was a strangely hypnotic and eerie experience. I had no idea that they would rise and, goaded by the vengeful ghost of Clytemnestra and some remorseless drumming, jerk themselves awake to become the Furies in pursuit of Orestes. With their bedding thrown over their shoulders like togas, they departed, leaving behind two dancers who encircled the armoured and helmeted, still and silent figure of Agamemnon, in a jamboree of non-stop jetés till they dropped – except that they weren’t allowed to by the Belgrade crowd, who cruelly, and delightedly, exhorted them to carry on. The same thing happened during a military skipping sequence: the audience adopting the role of bacchants in their demands and participation.
The stories of Hecuba, Oedipus and Jocasta, Orestes, Phaedra and Hippolytus, Electra and Medea, all emerged at interesting angles to the overall Dionysian scenario; the cast spoke in Flemish, French, German, Italian and English; the pregnant ambience of the electronic score was punctuated with ravishing arias, sung a cappella by a fabulous mezzo soprano, by Verdi, Handel and Bellini, whose Casta Diva heralded a night-time garden orgy.
That sexual frankness included a full-frontal erection and a scene in which naked lovers who have oiled each other’s bodies in ritual solemnity are swamped in a tonne of sand dumped from above. The finale featured ecstatic dance and chanting, each cry of “Give me all the love you got” met with renewed clamour from the audience. The ritual had turned into a party: not one of those spurious knees-ups at the end of a West End compilation musical, but something genuinely communal and atavistic. We’d been through the wringer – and the whole night and day – together.
!!!@@@$$$

An early draft of Roald Dahl’s Charlie and the Chocolate Factory not only starred a black version of Charlie Bucket, it saw the character trapped in a life-size chocolate mould of a boy as a “metaphor for racial stereotype”, according to research by an American academic.
Dahl’s widow, Liccy Dahl, told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme last week of how her husband had wanted Charlie to be “a little black boy”. His biographer, Donald Sturrock, added that the idea had been rejected by Dahl’s agent, but no further details were provided about the discarded storyline.
Now Catherine Keyser, a professor of English at the University of South Carolina, has told the New York Times about the original plot of Dahl’s draft, Charlie’s Chocolate Boy. According to Keyser, the setup is similar to Dahl’s bestseller, with a magical chocolate factory owned by “Willie” Wonka, and children vying for a golden ticket to visit it. But Augustus Gloop was named Augustus Pottle and there were two more children: Marvin Prune and Miranda Piker. “And of course Charlie Bucket – who in this version is a black boy, and is accompanied by his two doting parents,” Keyser said.
Charlie, she added, “ends up in the Easter Room, where there are life-size candy moulds of creatures, and one of these is shaped like a chocolate boy. Charlie is fascinated by this. Wonka helps him into the mould and gets distracted. The mould closes, and the chocolate pours over his body and he is suffocating and nearly drowning in it. It hardens around him, which feels terrible. He’s trapped. He’s alive but can’t be seen or heard. No one knows where he’s gone. Then he gets taken to Wonka’s house to be the chocolate boy in Wonka’s son’s Easter basket.”
The next day, burglars attempt to steal money and jewellery from the Wonkas’ house – in this version, Mr Wonka is married – but Charlie, hidden in his mould, manages to prevent the robbery. In return, he is given a shop in the city, which he names Charlie’s Chocolate Shop.
Keyser said that although the story was mentioned by Sturrock and in Lucy Mangan’s Inside Charlie’s Chocolate Factory, it “had never been looked at in great textual detail” before her analysis. She said that she loved the “vulnerability and the potential” of the early draft, describing it as “a really powerful racial allegory”.
“I think the mould … is a metaphor for racial stereotype. In the early 20th century, chocolate marketing in both the US and England was very tied up in imperialist fantasies and in connecting brown skin with brown chocolate. In one British ad for chocolate, for example, you had a black figure holding a cocoa bean and happily bestowing it on white children,” she said.
“So I think it’s neat that in this mid-century moment Dahl has this black boy get stuck inside a mould that fits him perfectly – he emphasises that – everything about the mould fits Charlie, except [that] once the chocolate inside the mould hardens, it’s uncomfortable! So what better symbol of what it’s like to be turned into a racial stereotype than a black boy who gets stuck inside a life-size chocolate mould and can’t be seen or heard through this chocolate coating.”
Dahl, however, was told by his agent not to make Charlie black. He then went on to dream up the Oompa Loompas, which were originally written as a tribe of African pygmies, prompting accusations of racism and colonialism. Dahl rewrote them to be from “Loompaland” in subsequent editions, with rosy-white skin and golden-brown hair.
“I think this arc – from what I find to be a fairly anti-racist novel to one that has been rightly criticised for its racist and imperialist politics – [shows] Dahl’s ambivalence,” said Keyser. “I think that’s the power of racism; to make someone able to hold these contradictory views at once. To both identify with the underdog and seem to understand the pain of stereotype, but then be completely flummoxed that anyone finds the Oompa Loompas offensive. He was genuinely surprised and very annoyed. So I don’t mean for this to whitewash Dahl’s racial politics. I just really love the vulnerability and the potential in this first draft.”
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory went on to be published in 1964. It is now estimated to have sold more than 20m copies around the world.
!!!@@@$$$

Last month I spent an occasionally fraught week in Spain with my two kids – and for the first time, we didn’t send a postcard home to their grandparents.
We almost did. On day five we were in the little supermarket round the corner from our hotel and as I walked past the revolving rack of postcards in the doorway, I briefly stopped and looked at them, before deciding that we wouldn’t bother.
There didn’t seem to be any point. The previous evening a freak thunderstorm had left our balcony and the hotel lobby underwater, with two of the three pools knocked out by flash flooding.
My nine-year-old son, a keen YouTuber, quickly flipped into cyber-journalist mode, reporting on the drama as I pointed my smartphone at him. Minutes later, the video had been uploaded and friends and relatives had been emailed a link.
This is the way it is now. We go away on holiday but it’s easier than ever to remain in touch. Facebook, Snapchat and Instagram all provide the means for us to keep everyone back home abreast of our movements (assuming they haven’t muted us as a result of irritation, jealousy or apathy).
But today I am appalled by my decision not to send a postcard, having read about the imminent demise of Britain’s oldest postcard publisher. J Salmon will shut its 140-year-old operation at the end of the year, blaming shrinking markets and the rise of social media for nose-diving sales.
Look what we’re doing. We’re killing off the postcard and none of us even realise it, because we’re too busy tweeting pictures of our hot dog legs by a nondescript pool somewhere sun-drenched.
There used to be a genuine thrill associated with receiving a holiday postcard; even if the words on the back were bland, with just a weather report and a list of sights that had been seen, it gave us a chance to gawp at the destination while reassuring us that the sender hadn’t been killed by a shark or some dodgy foreign food.
That is, of course, if the postcard made it back to the UK before the holidaymakers themselves. The sight of the postcard on the doormat four days after you had got home was par for the course if you had travelled abroad, unless military precision was applied and postcard duties were carried out on day one.
Of course, the humble postcard used to be more versatile than just a holiday bulletin device – in the days before email and premium-rate phone lines, we would turn to it to enter a newspaper competition or vote for a singing binman on Opportunity Knocks. But no more.
One of my favourite places on earth is the indoor weekend market at Tynemouth station on the coast near Newcastle. There’s a fantastic stall with hundreds of old postcards divided into various categories, some blank, others used and decorated with stamps, offering glimpses into the lives of strangers.
I recently bought one, dispatched from Woburn Abbey in the 1950s, solely because of the message on it. The sender, Ruth, wrote: “I remembered I’ve left my button-up green dress in the sitting room. Please could you send it as soon as possible.”
After that came some mundane space-filling about what Ruth was up to in the next day or two before she signed off with some thinly disguised passive aggression: “I would like my dress by Saturday.” Hopefully Mr and Mrs SJ Ashby of 10 High Street, Polegate, got the message.
Unlike vinyl, there will probably be no revival for postcards, which is a shame. As they slide towards extinction, you could do a lot worse than visit postcard-killing Twitter and check out the @pastpostcard account. It promises “fragments of life in real messages on postcards from the past” – and boy, does it deliver.
There are more than 6,000 tweets there, with cards from across the globe, accompanied by snatches of ephemeral information from the senders. We can only wonder about the whole story behind “Raymond looks well but very quiet. Doesn’t say much at all” on the back of a picture of a bloke sitting in the Howard Davis Park in Jersey with his shirt off.
I’ve just ordered the spin-off book, mainly from guilt at having contributed to the death of the postcard industry. I’m blaming the rain in Spain.
• Andy Dawson is a freelance writer and author of Get in the Sea
!!!@@@$$$

It has been 25 years since the Menendez brothers graced the American evening news, and one wonders if television audiences will really remember very much about them. It’s doubtful enough people will recall them enough to make Law & Order: True Crime’s version of The Menendez Murders – which starts Tuesday on NBC – the nostalgia-fest that American Crime Story: The People v OJ Simpson was. The crime was big news when it aired and then vanished afterwards, a taste for alleged evil very easily forgotten. The story was about rich people, who were not particularly interesting.
The two Menendez trials that spanned from 1993 to 1996 were in the all-encompassing shadow of the OJ Simpson trial, a case with far more obvious large-picture implications. In the Menendez case, there were no observations to be made about racism, or the privileges of celebrity, or even much to say about domestic violence. Instead you had a much simpler armchair-detective question: were the Menendez sons sociopaths? Or were their crimes the product of horrific abuse?
The initial key to curiosity about the Menendez crime was that it was patricide. Erik was 18 and Lyle was 21 when they shot and killed their parents, Jose and Mary Louise “Kitty” Menendez, on 20 August 1989 as the parents watched television in the family living room in Beverly Hills, California. The brothers called the police themselves, claiming they’d come home from seeing Tim Burton’s Batman to find their parents dead. Neighbors reportedly saw one brother (the two looked alike and the neighbor does not appear to have said which it was) break down on the front lawn, crying inconsolably. Lyle gave a 30-minute eulogy at the funeral, which reportedly held listeners “spellbound”.
Here you had a much simpler armchair-detective question: were the Menendez sons sociopaths?
Then, though it was not very becoming of grieving sons, the Menendez brothers set about spending their inheritance in the semi-idiotic way of early twentysomethings. Between them, they bought a Porsche, some condos, and a restaurant in Princeton, New Jersey, where Lyle was attending Princeton University and apparently dreaming of budding entrepreneurship. Erik decided that his future lay not with college but with a professional tennis career and hired a personal coach for a five-figure sum. If the spending of all this cash seemed a little heartless, the vulgarity of the display does not seem wholly out of sync with what must have been the grieving processes of the incredibly but unimaginatively rich.
Later, the police would say they suspected that Lyle and Erik had been involved in their parents’ deaths from the start. But they could not prove it, and the brothers, being close, did not turn on each other. The thing that cracked the case, instead, was Erik’s sudden and seemingly totally unmotivated confession to a therapist he had seen several years before – but only reconnected with after the murders – that “we did it”.
It is not unusual, in a crime, for the secondary characters to take center stage, and that is certainly what happened to Dr Jerome Oziel, the psychiatrist (to be played by Josh Charles in the NBC adaptation). According to Dominick Dunne (whom Oziel threatened to sue), Oziel had been eager to remain in contact with Erik after the murders, interested in getting closer to a crime whose apparent victims he’d previously brushed shoulders with. But when Erik confessed – allegedly so casually that he was leaning against a parking meter as he uttered the words – he caught Oziel off guard. The good doctor, however, did not run in terror. Instead, he continued to see Erik and Lyle both, discussing the crime with them and eliciting a full confession.
But it was not Oziel himself who reached out to the police. Instead it was an ex-patient and sometime lover of his, a woman named Judalon Smyth (to be played by Heather Graham), who went to the police. Oziel, she apparently told them, had become afraid of the Menendez brothers, and had enlisted her to stand outside his office door and listen in as they confessed. Smyth told Dunne she had since become disillusioned with Oziel and the way he had treated her, claiming he’d used his psychiatric expertise to manipulate her into a sexual relationship. Earlier this year, Smyth admitted that she’d only gone to the police after she’d broken up with him. “I mean, it took a long time for me to do the right thing,” she told a bluntly titled news magazine show, Murder Made Me Famous. “But ultimately, I did.”
It was by this baroque method that the police learned about the confession tapes, and after a brief court battle, the judge ruled the tapes could be brought into the case as evidence because Oziel had feared for his life while recording the sessions. By that point, defense attorneys for the brothers had already begun to argue that the confessions on the tapes were, at best, incomplete. For now, Lyle and Erik said there had been a motive behind the murders that no one knew about: they both, but especially Lyle, had been subject to horrific sexual and emotional abuse at the hands of their parents. On the stand, Lyle cried as he described how his father had allegedly molested and raped him.
By the late 1980s and early 1990s, child abuse scandals were becoming more frequent. And the brothers’ claims, so difficult to definitively disprove, took hold not just with their attorneys and friends, but also with television audiences and, eventually, the hung juries on each brother’s first trial. The Menendez brothers were convicted on the second try, and now serve life sentences without the possibility of parole at separate California state prisons.
Unlike some of the other famous crimes of the 1990s, there is remarkably little mystery to the Menendez case. They were certainly guilty of pulling the trigger, and admit that much. They may or may not have been abused, but even if one grants them the benefit of the doubt, it isn’t clear that the abuse justified the crime: by 18 and 21, the brothers should have been able to remove themselves from the parental orbit. Perhaps owing to the relative lack of complexity in the case, the television show, reportedly, will focus on the experiences of Leslie Abramson (Edie Falco), the prominent attorney who fought for Erik and who was one of the brothers’ few passionate defenders. Perhaps there is some unknown intrigue there the show can surface.
!!!@@@$$$

Sex and death are the themes of this 90-minute play by the late Stephen Clark. The problem is that they are virtually the only topics discussed in a work written as a vehicle for Julian Clary. Although Clark, who won an Olivier award for his lyrics for the reworked Martin Guerre, had an undoubted way with words, this particular piece strikes me as morbid and exploitative.
We first see Clary’s Michael in his kitchen, coolly preparing pasta for an expected dinner guest. As he does so, he explores in rhyme urban myths about necrophilia involving subjects ranging from Rasputin to Marilyn Monroe. (Later, he somewhat ludicrously expands on his theme to include the archaeologist Howard Carter, who is considered a sexual predator because of his enthusiasm for the tomb of Tutankhamun.) But the drama gets under way with the arrival of the cockily assertive Tim, whom Michael had encountered that day in a pub. As a kitchen knife is freely brandished and the two men engage in mutual confessions, you are never quite sure whether Michael’s plan is to seduce or kill his guest.
Behind the play lurks the idea that Michael, abused in childhood, is terrified of close personal encounters. That leads, however, to nonsensical statements such as Tim’s claim that “killing someone is the most intimate thing you can do with them.” The play also teases us with the idea that we are about to witness acts of sex or violence. When a naked Tim poses in front of a relief of Leonardo’s image of Vitruvian Man, it looks very much like the former; when a knife hovers ominously around one of the two men’s genitalia, it implies the latter. Either way, the impression is that we are being pointlessly titillated.
Clary is at his best in the opening monologue where, slicing and dicing vegetables, he exhibits an economy of movement that constitutes physical grace. Although he handles the character’s later Oedipal narrative with some skill, not even he can disguise the fact that it feels like the author’s desperate attempt to shock and amaze. James Nelson-Joyce lends the dinner guest a frantic ebullience and Christopher Renshaw directs capably. But the play itself, which feels like the spawn of Jean Genet and Stephen King, is purgatorial without ever being truly cathartic.
• At Trafalgar Studios, London, until 28 October. Box office: 0844-871 7632.
!!!@@@$$$

Liz Dawn, who played Vera Duckworth in Coronation Street for 34 years, has died aged 77.
A statement from her family said the actor had died peacefully on Monday night. “We are devastated and heartbroken at the passing of our much-loved wife, mother, sister, grandmother and great-grandmother, the incredible Liz Dawn,” said the family.
“She has been the love, light and inspiration in our lives and we are bereft at her passing.”
Dawn, whose real name was Sylvia Butterfield, was born in Leeds and first appeared on Coronation Street in 1974. She remained on the ITV soap until 2008, when health problems meant she could no longer be on the show and her character Vera Duckworth died in her sleep.
She returned briefly in 2010 when she famously appeared as a ghost just as her husband Jack died in the same chair as her, and the pair had a final dance.
A statement from Coronation Street said her fellow actors on the show were heartbroken.
The statement read: “We have been blessed to have Liz in our lives, as she was such a kind, considerate and caring friend and colleague. As Coronation Street’s Vera Duckworth for 34 years, Liz brought so much joy and happiness to so many. She was a wonderful actress who will forever be a true Coronation Street legend.”
On behalf of ITV and the programme, Coronation Street’s executive producer, Kieran Roberts, said: “Liz Dawn was a true Coronation Street legend, a brilliant actor and a wonderful person. Everyone lucky enough to have worked with Liz during her 34 years playing Corrie icon Vera Duckworth will remember her with huge affection.”
Dawn had suffered from the incurable lung disease emphysema since 2004 and in 2013 she revealed her health had deteriorated further after she had a heart attack. She said: “I have only got a third of my lungs now … and I do get so breathless. I can’t walk for more than a few steps without needing my chair so I just go everywhere in it now.”
Dawn married her first husband, Walter Bradley, in Leeds in 1957, and the pair had a son before separating less than two years later. She then married the electrician Donald Ibbertson in 1965 and had three daughters with him. Her first major role came in the 1974 drama Leeds United, which appeared in the BBC’s Play for Today slot, and she was then given a small role in Coronation Street. It wasn’t until her character Vera married Jack Duckworth in 1979 that she became a core character in the soap and the pair’s turbulent but loving relationship proved fruitful for drama.
In 2000, Dawn was awarded an MBE.
Tracey Brabin, an MP who used to be on Coronation Street, paid tribute to Dawn, saying: “So sad ... the amazing warm hearted, generous and hilarious Liz Dawn has died. Working with Liz and Bill was highlight of my time at Corrie.”
Antony Cotton, who plays Sean Tully in the soap, tweeted: “Liz was a wonderful actress, a fascinating storyteller, a hilarious comedian and most importantly a brilliant friend.”
Kym Marsh, who plays Michelle Connor, wrote: “I’m so sad. What a wonderful lady. She will be so missed.”
!!!@@@$$$

It just got slightly harder to see a penis on Netflix. An episode of Maya the Bee, the animated preschool adaptation of a 105-year-old German book about a happy bee, has been yanked from the service after parents noticed a line drawing of an erect penis daubed on a log. And it is unmistakably a penis. It’s so explicit that the studio behind Maya the Bee is taking legal action against the artist responsible.
Which is funny or horrifying, depending on what you consider appropriate for young children. But the episode does still underline what a rollercoaster it is to watch children’s television on streaming services like Netflix. Unlike, say, CBeebies, where every frame of every show is parsed to ensure that it promotes a healthy message of educational inclusivity, the kids’ fare on streaming services is held to a much less stringent standard.
That might mean you’ll accidentally see a willy in the background of a bee cartoon, or it might mean you end up watching Grami’s Circus Show – a Netflix preschool show so steeped in scatology and violence that it’s impossible to imagine it being aired by any traditional broadcaster.
Grami’s Circus Show is a South Korean cartoon about a baby lion and his exploits in a circus. Which sounds harmless enough … until two and a half minutes into the first episode. At this point, one of Grami’s friends accidentally swallows a bomb, then tries to defecate it before it gets wedged in his sphincter, shoots him up into the air and kills him. There is also an episode where Grami tries to stop a baby bird from being eaten, only to accidentally murder it on an electrified bug zapper. There is an episode where Grami craps out three pixellated balls of faeces, and another where he urinates on a tiger’s face to avoid being burned to death. The episode entitled The Grim Reaper is particularly bleak, ending with Death itself murdering Grami and sneaking off with his corpse. The whole thing is thoroughly, unrepentantly unsuitable for children, and we only discovered it when it appeared on a “because you watched …” submenu after watching some nursery rhymes.
I have to hold my hands up here and admit that I’m slightly obsessed with Grami’s Circus Show. I boggle at the audacity of it. It is so spectacularly inappropriate that watching it is like picking a scab. Watching it with a toddler, as I’ve done by accident, is like playing chicken with object permanence; it’s fun in the moment, but the second any of it sinks in is the moment we’re all screwed.
The last thing I want to do is get Grami’s Circus Show banned. It’s silly and fun and culturally interesting. After all, violent slapstick is a mainstay of South Korean culture. When I lived there a decade ago, one of the biggest shows revolved around dropping a heavy metal tray on the heads of various celebrities; plus let’s not forget Dong Chim, a game where children poke each other’s anuses with their fingers at force. And, honestly, it reminds me of the out-and-out violence of the Looney Tunes and Tom and Jerry cartoons I used to watch as a kid.
But times have changed and, call me coddled, but I’m a bit iffy about it being seen by very young children. My son hasn’t quite reached the “why?” stage of his development yet, but when he gets there it’s going to be incredibly hard to explain why the cartoon lion is trying to squeeze an explosive device out of his bottom.
Grami’s Circus Show isn’t the only kids’ show with questionable content to be found on streaming services. Netflix also has a show called Suckers that features a sort of dominatrix character and a panda in a gimp mask, and a deep enough delve into Amazon Prime throws up so many terrifying sub-Lynchian nightmares that you end up yearning for the tightly-curated quality control of linear broadcasters.
It’s a shame because, when they try, these services are capable of creating some of the best children’s programmes in the world. Netflix’s Ask the Storybots is easily the equal of any kids’ show you have ever seen, and Amazon’s Little Big Awesome is more dizzyingly inventive than everything else you’ve watched all year. But until you can rely on them not to shove genitals or poo or murder into your toddler’s face, they’re never going to be completely trustworthy. Netflix: please keep Grami’s Circus Show, just make it less easy for children to find.
!!!@@@$$$

More than 100 prominent Australian authors including JM Coetzee, David Malouf and Helen Garner have put their names to an open letter urging Australians to vote yes in the same-sex marriage postal survey, in what they called “the interest of fairness, equality and social reform”.
Peter Rose, editor of Australian Book Review, contacted a host of names from Australia’s arts community following the high court’s decision earlier this month to allow the federal government’s postal vote to go ahead. With voting now well under way – and a decisive lead currently held by the yes side, according to a Guardian Essential poll – the literary journal has published the letter to its readers, signed by names including actor and writer Magda Szubanski, ballet dancer and author of Mao’s Last Dancer Li Cunxin, and the authors Geraldine Brooks, Michelle de Kretser, Kate Grenville and Christos Tsiolkas.
“One very good, and unexpected, result of this public discussion is that those of us who knew ourselves to be one with the family of LGBTQI now feel more openly a part of that union,” said author Alex Miller. “Before this business, the togetherness was implicit; now, at least here in this community, it is a stated reality. And stronger, I think. People have stood up.”
Rose said that the response had been positive and immediate, with artists, directors, lawyers and public figures also putting their names to what he described as “a respectful contribution from some of the most prominent people in the arts in Australia”. The open letter reads: “In the interest of fairness, equality and social reform, we encourage Australians to vote yes in the same-sex marriage postal survey.”
“This debate is about equality – no more, no less,” said Rose. “Homosexual acts are perfectly legal in Australia. Gays and lesbians (tax-paying and law-abiding citizens) seek the same right that applies to heterosexuals: the freedom to marry their partners if they so choose.”
Pointing out that this right already exists in countries including Britain, Germany and the US, he added that “gays and lesbians serve in our defence and police forces, they educate our children and work in our hospitals, they entertain us and illuminate our lives through literature and the performing arts”.
“The time for distrust and discrimination is over,” he finished.
The results of the survey will be announced on 15 November.
!!!@@@$$$

It’s 50 years since the publication of Jerusalem the Golden by Margaret Drabble, her fourth novel and the winner of the James Tait Black prize in 1967.
Margaret Drabble is an important, thought-provoking novelist; she has edited two editions of the Oxford Companion to English Literature and is also a biographer of note. She is worth reading at any time. Even so, I’m aware that this is one of the quieter literary anniversaries of 2017. A few readers may be wondering why we’re commemorating this book. But if you are perplexed, that’s all the more reason to stick with us. I’m hoping we’ll show that there’s a strong case for saying that Jerusalem the Golden deserves to be at least as well read as its more famous predecessor, The Millstone.
The anniversary is also significant because this novel provides such an interesting way-marker in our culture. As Lisa Allardice explained this article, Drabble is cautious about claiming she was writing explicitly feminist novels so much as “writing about the world around her and her own experiences as a young woman”. Allardice quotes her saying: “When I started writing, there was no women’s movement … Feminist criticism was born in 1968 precisely.” In which case, an unapologetically frank novel about the female experience published in 1967 seems all the more significant. As does the fact that this was a book touching on sexual liberation published so close to the so-called Summer of Love.
And if all that isn’t enough, we might also be able to take the opportunity to look at another of Drabble’s other novels later in the month. Many of them are admirably short and there are 20 to choose from. That’s right: 20. Not bad for an author who claimed she never really wanted to be a writer: “I didn’t want to. I just happened to write a novel when I was pregnant and had nothing to do.”
While I’m quoting, this contemporary review from the New York Times might also encourage you to read the book:
The author is an accomplished stylist who has been highly praised. Jerusalem the Golden says rather more than it would appear to do on a cursory reading. Which makes it all the more unfortunate that the book contains misprints galore. The final one tells us that the author, a former actress, has appeared with the Royal Shakespeare Company at ‘Strafford’.
I’m curious to check if the current edition has fixed the error. And happily, we can, because thanks to Penguin we have copies of the novel to give to the first five people in the UK to post “I want a copy please”, along with a nice, constructive suggestion in the comments section below. If you’re lucky enough to be one of the first to comment, email Phill Langhorne with your address (phill.langhorne@theguardian.com) – we can’t track you down ourselves. Be nice to him, too.
!!!@@@$$$

A man who has been charged with stalking pop star Taylor Swift has been deemed unfit to stand trial by a court doctor.
Mohammed Jaffar, 29, was sent to a New York state psychiatric facility, where he will remain in custody until further mental health assessments.
Jaffar is accused of plaguing Swift’s management company with phone calls – 60 of them over a two-week period in February 2017 – before entering her apartment building in the Tribeca area of New York. He also repeatedly rang her doorbell. He was eventually arrested in March, and a restraining order was made against him.
Jaffer had also tweeted images of sweets he planned to give Swift: “Something a gatekeeper (a guy dressed up as security guard in your lobby) prevented us from sharing.” He wrote her rambling poetry in which he said “There is nothing I love more than you”.
!!!@@@$$$

Contrary to the movie trope epitomised by Alex in The Clockwork Orange and Hannibal Lecter in the Silence of the Lambs, psychopaths are no fonder of classical music than anyone else, though they do appear to have other musical preferences, psychologists say.
In a study of 200 people who listened to 260 songs, those with the highest psychopath scores were among the greatest fans of the Blackstreet number one hit No Diggity, with Eminem’s Lose Yourself rated highly too.
The New York University team behind the work stress that the results are preliminary and unpublished, but the scientists are sufficiently intrigued to launch a major study in which thousands of people across the psychopathy spectrum will be quizzed on their musical tastes.
Tests on a second group of volunteers suggest the songs could help to predict the disorder. Whatever their other personality traits might be, fans of The Knack’s My Sharona and Sia’s Titanium were among the least psychopathic, the study found.
The researchers have a serious goal in mind: if psychopaths have distinct and robust preferences for songs, their playlists could be used to identify them.
“The media portrays psychopaths as axe murderers and serial killers, but the reality is they are not obvious; they are not like The Joker in Batman. They might be working right next to you, and they blend in. They are like psychological dark matter,” said Pascal Wallisch who led the research.
About 1% of the general population meets the description of a psychopath, but the figure is far higher in prisons, where about one in five has the disorder. One estimate, from Kent Kiehl, a psychologist at the University of New Mexico, suggests that psychopaths cost the US government alone $460bn (£340bn) a year.
“You don’t want to have these people in positions where they can cause a lot of harm,” said Wallisch. “We need a tool to identify them without their cooperation or consent.”
Scientists have already found gene variants that are more common in psychopaths, but they are hardly predictive of the disorder. They appear to alter people’s tendencies for empathy and aggression, but they do not determine people’s actions. Brain scans highlight distinct signs too, as the neuroscientist James Fallon discovered when he spotted the patterns of a psychopath in his own brain’s anatomy, but again, these do not set a person’s behaviour. Even if they did, the police cannot search for dangerous individuals by hauling people into brain scanners.
Wallisch recruited volunteers for a study on musical tastes, but realised that many of the participants had separately sat a battery of psychological tests, including one called the Levenson Self-Report Psychopathy Scale, which ranks people’s psychopathic traits. By combining the volunteers’ answers from the music study with their results from the psychopath test, Wallisch identified songs that seemed to be most popular among psychopaths, and others favoured by non-psychopaths.
While No Diggity and Lose Yourself were strikingly popular with psychopaths, other songs had greater predictive power. Wallisch declined to name them out of concern that doing so might compromise any future screening test.
The larger study will now investigate whether the link between musical tastes and psychopathy is real, and if it is, whether groups of songs can predict potential psychopaths. That could lead to some controversial applications, Wallisch said. If the team can identify a group of 30 songs, for example, that together prove good at predicting psychopaths, then playlists from online music providers could be used to identify them.
“The beauty of this idea is you can use it as a screening test without consent, cooperation or maybe even the knowledge of the people involved,” Wallisch said. “The ethics of this are very hairy, but so is having a psychopath as a boss, and so is having a psychopath in any position of power.” Fortunately for ethicists, the possibility is some way off yet. “This work is very preliminary,” Wallisch added. “This is not the end of an investigation, it is the very beginning.”
Kevin Dutton, a psychologist at Oxford, and the author of The Wisdom of Psychopaths, has been gathering data on musical tastes and other preferences for a psychopath study with Channel 4. More than three million people have responded so far, and while online surveys have serious weaknesses, the results so far suggest psychopaths favour rap music over classical and jazz. They also seem more likely to read the Financial Times than other newspapers.
Regardless of its accuracy, Dutton suspects movie directors like the idea of classical music-loving psychopaths because of the “irresistibly alluring” juxtaposition. “The coming together of the dark, visceral, primeval psychopathic mind and the higher aesthetic of classical composition is inherently incongruous, and there is a whole body of literature on the creative potential of incongruity,” he said. “It is the hypnotically captivating and age-old appeal of the ‘beauty and the beast’, only under the same cortical roof.”
!!!@@@$$$

The Aurora virus is a pandemic that drops on the world like some fairytale enchantment. It seals the women inside fibrous cocoons and leaves the men in a state of bull-headed disarray. There are riots outside the White House; an apocalyptic gang war in the streets of Chicago. Meanwhile, in Dooling, West Virginia, the battle of the sexes boils down to a joust between Clinton Norcross, a harried prison psychiatrist, and Evie Black, a supernatural girl drifter, incarcerated for the murder of a pair of crystal meth cookers. The clock is ticking, the end is nigh, and yet these two remain locked in their Mars-versus-Venus dispute. “We could go on like this for ever,” Evie sighs in her cell. “He said, she said. The oldest story in the universe.”
While the entertaining Sleeping Beauties – written by Stephen King in tandem with his novelist son, Owen – doesn’t quite last for ever, its allegorical drama extends across 736 pages. It’s a bulging, colourful epic; a super-sized happy meal, liberally salted with supporting characters and garnished with splashes of arterial ketchup. These women are sleeping but they must not be disturbed. Tear off the cocoon and the females awaken as zombies, or possibly as angels of vengeance, and immediately start murdering their husbands and sons. Evie – whom the Kings refer to as “the black angel” – clearly regards this response as a kind of cosmic payback. It may even be that she is pulling the strings from afar.
In framing small-town America as the microcosm of a single-sex planet, Sleeping Beauties could be the Y-chromosome sibling to Charlotte Perkins Gilman’s Herland, in which three explorers gatecrash a feminist utopia. But devotees of King Sr will find more familiar echoes here, too. The undervalued Insomnia, for instance, tackled the queer counter-life of the unconscious. Under the Dome showed how an isolated community could overheat and turn ugly. Most obviously, the account of a global pandemic harks back to The Stand, arguably the author’s greatest work, right down to its teeming cast of casualties and survivors. Recalling his struggle to write that novel, King would later lament that his story became overcrowded, infested – “a veritable Calcutta” of crisscrossing characters. Sleeping Beauties has similar issues and even goes so far as to provide an extended glossary of Dooling’s inhabitants. This includes various spouses and cousins, bakers and mechanics, along with “a common fox, between four and six years of age”.
Eventually – thankfully – several of these characters detach themselves from the herd. Clinton is our flawed new-man hero, struggling to salvage his marriage and watching as his sheriff wife, Lila, doses herself with caffeine and cocaine in a vain attempt to stay awake. Then, when Lila goes under, her post is filled by unreconstructed Frank Geary, a former pest-control officer with a hair-trigger temper. Geary is determined to save his daughter and rightly believes Evie Black is the key. And yet Evie, for all her prominence, remains the vaguest, least fleshed-out member of Dooling’s cast of hundreds. She is a plot device in the guise of an “enchanted being”; part succubus, part virago; brought in to frame an argument and dispense the clues. Even the fox has more emotional range.
Sleeping Beauties is at its most satisfying during its breakneck opening half, as the crisis takes hold, before the allegorical baggage piles up. One of King Sr’s great strengths as a writer is his mastery of the milieu of small-town USA, his uncanny ability to ventriloquise its inhabitants and keep his myriad pieces in play. His tale only falters when it doubles down on its premise, belatedly introducing a parallel Dooling, a shadow world for the sleeping women that is “so much better than the old man-driven one” – although even here it manages to redeem itself. The denouement is ambiguous, elegantly open-ended. Assuming the two tribes can be reconciled, one is left with the sense that they are destined to remain at a distance.
Was the writing of this book dependent on a similar creative friction? Did Stephen call the shots and have his son play apprentice? Or was this truly a joint effort; a collaboration between two writers blessed with the same DNA? It’s hard to tell – and this is surely for the best. But perhaps it’s no accident that this epic feels so vital and fresh. Sleeping Beauties comes fuelled by a youthful vigour that King Sr hasn’t shown us in years – probably not since 2008’s Duma Key. He appeared to have lost interest, dozed off, when maybe all he required was his son’s intervention. I like the image of Owen peeling back the cocoon, jolting his insensible father back into murderous bloody life.
• Xan Brooks’s The Clocks in This House All Tell Different Times is published by Salt. To order Sleeping Beauties for £17 (RRP £20) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
!!!@@@$$$

There is something quite shocking about seeing a new contemporary map of London in which the rich areas are labelled “primarily creative class” and the poorer parts “primarily service class”. But this is how the American writer and Toronto University professor Richard Florida portrays cities and sees people. There are those who create and those who serve them.
The book opens with its author recounting what his taxi driver told him on the way in from the airport about all the empty luxury flats in London. This feeds into his theory that the “new urban crisis” is about inequality and house prices, and would apparently be solved if only they could both be reduced a little. However, ending the real crisis might not be that simple.
Presumably the taxi driver was “service class” and Florida, who describes himself as “one of the world’s leading urbanists”, is a “creative”, but is what he is creating useful or harmful? Just above his map of London in the book, he claims that “surprisingly, there is not a single tract in London where the working class makes up a plurality of residents…” That claim is wrong, of course, but so are many of the ideas in this flawed book.
People can be divided into social classes: we have been doing it with census data since 1911. But they cannot be easily divided into those who are creative and those who are not. Surely, we are all creative to some extent. Similarly, while it’s true that whole neighbourhoods are no longer saturated by one social group or another, working class people still predominate almost everywhere – especially in London where the large majority of people are struggling in some way to get by, pay the rent, the mortgage, maintain their jobs and bring up their children. Whether they work in the creative or service sector is beside the point.
Yes, inequality and housing prices have risen; but this is partly because people in the US and, to a lesser extent, in the UK were fooled into believing that some people were worth far more than others and that housing in some cities was worth more than it really is. This has led in the last few decades to pay in the US and UK rising faster at the top than at the bottom.
The New Urban Crisis doesn’t look far beyond the US and UK. If it did, Florida would see that cities are more affordable and function better in countries where people respect each other more. Japan, for example, which is hardly mentioned, or the more equitable countries of northern Europe, or Canada.
So what does Florida suggest we do about rising inequality and rising house prices? The answer is very little, apparently. After concentrating on the travails of London, Florida ends the preface to the UK edition of his book by claiming: “Our great urban centres can no longer look to national governments for top-down solutions.” His claim is that city mayors are the solution. However, he fails to understand how limited the power of the London mayor is and how unfeasible it is to take ideas from the US infrastructure and try to impose them on the UK. The US has many massive cities. We only have one.
Later, he claims not only that no prime minister, president, or national politician in all of the US, the UK or Europe has ever talked “thoughtfully” about cities and urban policy but that none has the will or the power to do anything about it. That is quite some claim, and like many in the book it is both unsubstantiated and unbelievable.
Bernie Sanders, for one, made urban planning a central plank of his campaign last year, criticising the “ugliness , the greed and the recklessness we have seen [in American cities] from Donald Trump and Carl Icahn”. And the idea that the British government could not help solve London’s problems is laughable. No other body has the power to introduce rent regulation, to ensure that private landlords pay their taxes (huge numbers avoid it), to ensure that schools and hospitals are properly funded, that walking, cycling and public transport are encouraged, that the air is made cleaner, and so on and on. Florida says very little about public services. Neither schools nor hospitals appear in the index and public investment is covered in just five pages out of the 320.
Florida repeats many old myths, for instance suggesting that New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Boston – although all being highly segregated and unequal – offer greater avenues for upward mobility for the poor. They don’t. By some measures, social mobility is lower in the US than in any other affluent country in the world.
The words at the top of the book’s front cover read: “deserves to stand alongside Piketty’s Capital … Essential”. In a way this is true. Florida’s book is an example of the kind of thinking that got us into this mess in the first place. Understanding that thinking is an important part of starting to realise that we cannot go on like this.
Danny Dorling is Halford Mackinder professor of human geography at Oxford University. The New Urban Crisis by Richard Florida is published by OneWorld (£20). To order a copy for £14, go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

A television catchphrase is a powerful thing; nail the wording and intonation and it can propel a character into immortality. For instance, if it wasn’t for “Aaay!” people would primarily know the Fonz as a creepy middle-aged man who desperately wanted to be best friends with some teenagers. So, what are the 10 greatest catchphrases in television history? I’m glad you asked. Here they are.
A good catchphrase is one that can be easily replicated, and none are replicated quite as easily as “Ooh, Betty”. You simply put your finger to your mouth, look sheepish and make a noise like a deflating haemorrhoid cushion. It’s easy and, once you’ve got the hang of it, you can throw in a confident “The cat done a whoopsie on the carpet”. And what’s cooler than repeating a catchphrase from a 40-year-old sitcom? Nothing, that’s what.
The success of “Pretty, pretty good” lies in its potential for everyday use. People ask how you are all the time, and it’s much more fun to shout back “I’m pret-tay, pret-tay, pret-tay good” like a sour old Jewish millionaire than to just mumble and shrug like you usually do.
Although the first Flintstones script called for voice actor Alan Reed to simply yell “Yahoo!”, in the heat of the moment, Reed gleefully ad-libbed “Yabba Dabba Doo” by folding it in with the Brylcreem slogan “A little dab’ll do ya”. The success of the catchphrase not only spawned a mangy fruit punch drink called Yabba Dabba Dew, but also helped to conceal Fred Flintstone’s true nature as an angry misogynist layabout with a crippling gambling addiction.
As good a catchphrase as this is – it managed to keenly encapsulate the slippery relationship between politicians and the media – it makes the list because it stands the test of time better than anything that Kevin Spacey has ever said in the ongoing House of Cards remake.
A catchphrase is usually limited to a single character. Not so with “That’s what she said”, an update of “As the actress said to the bishop” that gradually infiltrated the entire cast of The Office (US). This arguably makes it the most realistic catchphrase in this list – no other captures the incestuous shared-air nature of modern workplaces, where inane in-jokes take hold out of nowhere.
This one can be intellectualised for ever. “Is it because I is black?” is a stinging comment on race and class and urban deprivation, delivered by a privately educated Oxbridge graduate. However, it’s included here because 17 years ago Richard Madeley did an Ali G impression on This Morning and it was so unbelievably incredible that it deserves to be mentioned as often as possible.
With the possible exception of Bill and Ted’s “Be excellent to each other”, no catchphrase in history has managed to convey an entire spiritual worldview as succinctly as “Live long and prosper”. How better to demonstrate your basic compassion than with a simple wish for a long and happy life? Never mind that it was probably ripped off from Shakespeare, it’s still better than “May the force be with you”.
Had 24 ended up on something like HBO, the fabric of the show would be completely different. Jack Bauer’s catchphrase “Damn it” only came into being because the network banned all other expletives. And the censorship undoubtedly works in 24’s favour. “Damn it, Chloe” has pace and urgency; “Chloe you great big twatting shit”, on the other hand, does not.
Fred Flintstone yelled “Yabba dabba doo!” to express dumb joy and 30 years later Homer Simpson yelled “D’oh!” to express dumb frustration. It’s the perfect response to being outfoxed by the world at every turn, which all of us are all the time. “D’oh!” is the human condition writ large.
What does “Hey now” even mean? It’s as pointless and hollow as you can get. And that’s the point. “Hey now” is a catchphrase schemed up for its own sake, a meaningless noise invented by a pathetic man whose only goal was to have a catchphrase. It’s a work of art.
!!!@@@$$$

New York’s Guggenheim Museum will remove three art pieces from an upcoming show featuring Chinese conceptual artists, amid accusations of animal cruelty and repeated threats of violence.
The museum will not exhibit three pieces during Art and China after 1989: Theatre of the World – two videos featuring live animals and a sculpture that includes live insects and lizards – over “concern for the safety of its staff, visitors and participating artists”.
The Guggenheim has been embroiled in controversy since the show was publicised, with animal rights groups calling for the the works to be pulled and a chorus of celebrities condemning the museum.
One of the videos, titled Dogs That Cannot Touch Each Other, is a recording of a 2003 live performance in which two pairs of pit bulls faced each other on treadmills, held back by harnesses so they could never make contact. Over the course of the video, created by artists Sun Yuan and Peng Yu, the dogs grow weary and can be seen salivating more and more.
“Although these works have been exhibited in museums in Asia, Europe, and the United States, the Guggenheim regrets that explicit and repeated threats of violence have made our decision necessary,” the museum said. “As an arts institution committed to presenting a multiplicity of voices, we are dismayed that we must withhold works of art.”
The show’s signature piece Theatre of the World involves an enclosure housing hundreds of insects and reptiles that devour each other over the course of the show. A reference to the animals eating each other was removed from the Guggenheim’s website.
The artist, Huang Yong Ping, withdrew the artwork from a show in Vancouver in 2007 after a local animal rights group requested modifications.
A second video, A Case Study of Transference, made in 1994 by Xu Bing, features a boar and a sow mating, both stamped with gibberish made by mixing Chinese characters and the Roman alphabet and is meant to represent the contrast between complex writing systems and the wild nature of the animals.
The three artworks are a tiny fraction of the roughly 150 pieces that are part of the exhibition, which is set to open in October.
Just last week the Guggenheim defended showing Dogs That Cannot Touch Each Other, saying it was “an intentionally challenging and provocative artwork that seeks to examine and critique systems of power and control”.
“Contrary to some reports, no fighting occurred in the original performance,” it added.
But those comments failed to assuage the anger of animal rights activists, with the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals saying the performance caused the dogs pain and distress.
“Such treadmills are typical of brutal dog fighting training regimens, and the mere positioning of animals to face each other and encourage aggression often meets the definition of illegal dog-fighting in most states,” the ASPCA said in a statement.
A petition condemning the exhibition had over 550,000 signatures by the time the Guggenheim decided to pull the works and accused the institution of “several distinct instances of unmistakable cruelty against animals in the name of art”.
Only “sick individuals” would enjoy watching Dogs That Cannot Touch Each Other and the Guggenheim should not cater to their “twisted whims”, Ingrid Newkirk, president of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (Peta), wrote in an open letter to the museum.
Celebrities including comedian Ricky Gervais and singer Richard Marx also accused the museum of animal cruelty.
!!!@@@$$$

This book is uplifting, funny, heart-breaking – a one-off. I have been wondering how Sophie Herxheimer, whom I knew of as a talented painter, came to write these dramatic monologues in the voice of her German Jewish grandmother. For this enterprise, a mix of memory and imagination, is more than ventriloquy, it is a detailed evocation of character – like inspired eavesdropping – a pitch-perfect labour of love. Many poems will bring a lump to your throat, although, if you are taking heed of what Grent Muzzer Liesel believed, you will know to keep your emotions under wraps. There is a particularly moving poem, about the end of Liesel’s life, in which she is visited in hospital by her granddaughter (Herxheimer describes herself through her grandmother’s eyes). The granddaughter breaks an unspoken rule, telling her grandmother she loves her: “…but Luff’s a Sink we neffer/ menschen. Ve bose know zis Rule, chest/ es ve bose know ze rottett Stomek off Dizpair/ Zis is vot makes us… indeeztruktibel.”
An “author’s note” explains the poems are written “in a Lenkvitch that my ear remembers as the way my paternal grandmother spoke”. She adds, simply, that her “first 17 years were my grandmother’s last”. Liesel lived in a quiet north London suburb and, visiting her, Herxheimer often wondered how Leisel and her husband had transported “such enormous heavy wooden furniture with them whilst fleeing for their lives”. The book is full of Herxheimer’s wonderful black-and-white papercuts of this remembered furniture – a shelf on which a coffee cup steams, a curvaceous sideboard, a table set with a lacy cloth (one poem is entitled My Demesk Tapell-Kloss). There is also a papercut of a ghostly pair of gloves – crossed, perhaps clapping.
She suggests: “Reading the poems aloud is a good way in.” I’d say it was essential. At first, you might think the spelling a gimmick but the more you read, the more powerful the language becomes. Sometimes, there is a split-second delay before you understand. Try reading this title aloud – Dess Bett – then hear what it means. What makes it interesting is that, as readers, we become the foreigners, the decipherers, tasting words on our tongues, trying them out for sense which brings us empathetically closer to Liesel as she acquires English, assimilates in London while holding on to Leipzig.
London, the opening poem, is charming yet unrepresentative because Liesel is far subtler than her thoughts about the reassuring nature of London buses. A closet intellectual, she borrows Chekhov from the library, rejoices in Schubert at a funeral, discusses Picasso and Paul Klee with a man who briefly, calamitously, becomes her lover. She works away on her sewing machine to save being “eaten alyfe by Pointlessnesse” (I like the capital P). She remembers people she has lost.
Herxheimer never wades into sentimentality, which is one of the reasons the poems are so moving. Tektonnik has a correspondent’s tone but Liesel’s friend Minna (although this is not spelt out) is not about to receive any letter. It ends: “In my Hedt: vair you liff olt Frent,/ oont vair ve go ofa all of ziz:/ vair still ve chet oont larf into ze Nyte.” There is another extraordinary poem about the life and death of Liesel’s twin brothers and – my favourite – Vossch by Hendt, Lern by Hart! about a lambswool sweater surviving the woman who made it. Herxheimer knits a moral into this poem: ‘Make Sinks. Make Sinks up! Play!’ To which I’d add other imperatives: buy, read, cherish this book.
Not zo mainy Dais zinz ve arrivink.
Zis grey iss like Bearlin, zis same grey Day
ve hef. Zis norzern Vezzer, oont ze demp Street.
A biet off Rain voant hurt, vill help ze Treez
on zis Hempstet Heese ve see in Fekt.
Vy shootd I mind zat?
I try viz ze Busses, Her Kondooktor eskink
me… for vot? I don’t eckzectly remempber;
Fess plees? To him, my Penny I hent ofa –
He notdz viz a keint Smile – Fanks Luv!
He sez. Oh! I em his Luff – turns Hentell
on Machine, out kurls a Tikett.
Zis is ven I know zat here to settle iss OK. Zis
City vill be Home, verr eefen on ze Buss is Luff.
• Velkom to Inklandt by Sophie Herxheimer is published by Short Books (£12.99). To order a copy for £11.04 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

In the opening sequence of The Vietnam War (BBC4), grainy footage rolls backwards: bombs fall up, riot police back away from protesters, villages and draft cards reconstitute themselves out of the flames. This sequence drags the viewer back in time, beyond some indeterminate point where history takes on the imprint of inevitability. Let’s stop looking at the Vietnam war through the prism of subsequent events, it says. Let’s remember what happened.
The release of a new 10-part Ken Burns documentary is always a big deal, although this one seems particularly timely. He shares the directing credit with long-time collaborator Lynn Novick, who probably isn’t getting enough attention for her contribution, but Burns’s name is so indelibly associated with a certain style of film-making it’s almost an adjective. In fact, the “Ken Burns effect” is the name commonly used for the editing software option that allows you to pan and zoom across still photographs, mimicking the technique so extensively deployed in his most famous documentary, The Civil War.
The Vietnam War bears many of its epic predecessor’s hallmarks: talking heads, sonorous narration (Peter Coyote, who has Emmy-winning form in this area), period music and a meticulous approach to sequential narrative. But, in this case, the talking heads are survivors (from both the US and Vietnam), a large proportion of the pictures move all by themselves, and the music is the sort of acid rock that seems to go well with scenes of fire and smoke.
I was born into the middle of the Vietnam war – by the time I was 10, it seemed to me that it had always been going on – and like a lot of people of my generation, I am intimately familiar with its slang and its acronyms, while pretty sketchy on its origins. The first episode took us back to France’s colonial rule of Indochina, although this narrative was wisely interwoven with footage from later stages of the war. That way it didn’t feel too much like a remedial history lesson, although it was one and, from my point of view, a sorely needed one. The second episode (they are showing two a night, in the modern manner) took us up to John F Kennedy’s assassination, by which time the US had 16,000 military “advisers” on the ground.
The story proper begins with Ho Chi Minh, a man whose single-minded obsession with an independent Vietnam was deemed too nationalistic by his fellow Marxist exiles. Nor was Ho, formerly a pastry chef in a Boston hotel, remotely anti-American in the early days. During the second world war, his fighters, the Viet Minh, were allied with the US against the Japanese invaders and the collaborationist French running the colonial government. When Ho declared Vietnam independent in 1945, he quoted a bit of the American Declaration of Independence.
After the war, the French reasserted their right to rule. They were the ones who introduced napalm – a gelatinous petroleum used to set dense jungle ablaze – into the equation. In an echo of what would come later, returning French soldiers were pelted with rocks in Marseille. But the US was by then obsessed with the idea that one south-east Asian country after another might fall to communism – the so-called domino effect – unless a line in the sand was drawn. According to one former Pentagon official, the US regarded Vietnam as “a piece on a chessboard, not a place with a cultural history that we would have an impossible time changing”.
Particular attention is given to the Vietnamese perspective, with a vivid portrayal of the rogues who clung to power in the south after the Viet Cong retreated above the 17th parallel, transforming a struggle for independence into a civil war. Particularly compelling was the ghastly Madame Nhu, sister-in-law of the nominal leader, Ngo Dinh Diem; she accused the Buddhist monks who set themselves alight in protest of using imported petrol.
Burns and Novick have a great skill for making an immensely complex story immediately comprehensible. The narration is kept to a minimum, but what there is of it is exquisitely written. Within the narrative they paint a picture of the US at a crossroads. A photo of Kennedy, that most modern of presidents, striding off to his inauguration in a top hat, offers a telling glimpse of a nation caught between two eras.
Above all, the Burns brand carries with it a sense of trustworthiness; of a project undertaken with humility, but without an agenda beyond the truth. Maybe it’s this notion, rather than the idea that the Vietnam war is at the root of the US’s divisive apolitical culture, that makes the series seem so important right now.
!!!@@@$$$

In the realm of Hollywood sci-fi, only one future is guaranteed. If a movie finds even a modicum of success with audiences, it will eventually be remade or turned into the starting point for a franchise. Who would have thought that a well-received but largely forgotten 1973 thriller about a wild west-style amusement park whose android cowboys turn on their guests would spark the best new television show of last year, in HBO’s Westworld? And who might have imagined in 1984 that The Terminator, a low budget futuristic vision from rookie film-maker James Cameron, would still be knocking around Hollywood 20 years after the date upon which the machines were supposed to have destroyed human civilisation?
Ever since his last turn at the controls, 1991’s Terminator 2: Judgment Day, Cameron has been forced to watch from the sidelines as the laser-honed perfection of his original vision has been twisted into a malfunctioning mess by a series of lesser film-makers. But now he and his original cast – Arnold Schwarzenegger and the criminally underused Linda Hamilton – are back to reclaim the franchise from the Hollywood machine.
Arnie has reportedly told a fan site that the new film will ignore the non-Cameron Terminator movies, with events taking their cue from Terminator and T2 only. We also know that the Avatar director will take a hands-on producer’s role, rather than directing, this time around. Deadpool’s Tim Miller is set to take charge for the first film, which is intended to mark the beginning of a new trilogy.
On paper, Terminator 6 (or 2.5), sounds like it should have all the ingredients for success. Yet history tells us that famous Hollywood film-makers who revisit past glories often find it impossible to catch lightning in a bottle a second time around.
Perhaps the most obvious case is that of Ridley Scott, whose return to the Alien franchise was hailed as an opportunity to recapture the brooding tone of his original 1979 venture, when he signed on to direct the film that eventually became Prometheus in 2009. Instead, the saga has lost its way horribly, with Scott seemingly obsessed with explaining elements of the Alien mythos that would be better off remaining as enigmas.
Sure, we all really wanted to know where the “space jockey” from Alien came from, but not enough that we would pay to see a whole new movie about that hitherto innocuous extra-terrestrial species – especially as the original xenomorphs were far more grimly fascinating. And yes, okay, the madness of Michael Fassbender’s David was probably the most interesting thing about Prometheus (though there was not much competition). But that does not mean we wanted an entire episode (as was the case with this year’s Alien: Covenant) devoted to seeing how far the Machiavellian android was prepared to push his freakishly grotesque envelope.
Scott is also returning as a producer on the imminent Blade Runner 2049, which at this stage looks rather more promising. With a little bit of luck, director Denis Villeneuve will have been given licence to pursue a vision that expands the original movie’s fascinating conversation about the nature of humanity, Because if Scott had been directing, we might easily have found ourselves watching a movie about the continuing adventures of the guy who serves Harrison Ford’s Rick Deckard his noodles.
The British film-maker is not the only director to have come a cropper when revisiting past glories. Steven Spielberg’s final Indiana Jones movie ought to have been 1989’s The Last Crusade, but the three-time Oscar-winner was persuaded to return by his friend George Lucas for 2008’s ill-conceived Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, a movie now best known for the “nuke the fridge” scene, some dodgy CGI gophers and the unwelcome addition of Shia LaBeouf’s Mutt Williams. Not to be put off, Spielberg will be back alongside Ford’s whip-cracking archaeologist for more, in a new, Disney-backed episode next year.
Then there is Peter Jackson, whose remarkable, Oscar-winning achievement in adapting JRR Tolkien’s The Lord of the Rings was tarnished by his undercooked, over-stretched Hobbit trilogy, a decade later. Let’s not even mention Lucas’s damnable Star Wars prequels.
Naturally there are exceptions to the rule that one should never go back – George Miller’s Mad Max: Fury Road being the clearest example. Why did that particular movie manage to buck the trend? And what can Cameron learn from his Australian contemporary? Instead of expanding the mythos into increasingly portentous territory, as Scott might have done, Miller simply gave us a better Mad Max movie than any we had seen before, trimming off extraneous fat and treating audiences to a thrillingly realised chase thriller of heavy-metal blood and thunder.
If Cameron can repeat the trick, and give us a new Terminator film that feels like the definitive episode in the saga, most fans will be more than willing to pretend that the last three movies in the series were wiped out of existence the moment Cameron fired up the time displacement gizmo and set the old electricity a crackling once again.
!!!@@@$$$

Rüstem Aslan, Troy’s chief archaeologist, grows more animated as he enters the fenced-off area just beyond the southern gate of the ancient city’s ruins. To him it offers tantalising clues that may add to the evidence that this was the scene of the war detailed in Homer’s epics, the Iliad and the Odyssey.
“Priam, Achilles, Hector: [whether] they lived and died here, we cannot prove that 100%,” said the affable Aslan, who started working at the site as a student in 1988. “But if you work inside for 30 years, night and day, winter or summer, surrounded by this landscape, you can feel it. You start to believe.”
The ruins of Troy are half an hour’s drive from Çanakkale, a city in north-west Turkey situated on the Dardanelles strait and near the Gallipoli peninsula. The site, on Hisarlık Hill, contains the overlapping remains of 10 cities, Troys I to X, dating from as early as 3,000BC.
Much of the excavations over the past two years have focused on an area directly across from Troy VI’s southern gate, dated to 1300BC, and the main entry into the ancient citadel from the plains below. A few dozen metres from the gate, archaeologists have uncovered a late bronze age road and the remains of a house from the era, indicating the existence of an extensive organised network of buildings beyond the city walls.
Investigations will resume in summer 2018 as Aslan and his team seek evidence of a violent confrontation in the area immediately surrounding the gate.
Archaeologists here believe Homer’s epic has a historical core that can be uncovered through excavations, a careful reading of the literature, and written documents from the Hittite empire that co-existed with Troy and collapsed with the end of the bronze age.
“This year we discovered a large area that follows from the south gate, a late bronze age street that is directly connected to the south gate, and we also found late bronze age house foundations connected to the street, which means the area around the citadel was organised and large,” Aslan says.
“Next year we will continue the excavation in an extended area and we will try to understand the last destruction layer outside the citadel. What happened, how it happened, and when it happened.”
The site was first posited as the possible scene of the war depicted in the Iliad as early as the second half of the 19th century, when excavations, first by the British consul Frank Calvert and then by a German merchant, Heinrich Schliemann, began in earnest.
Turkey hopes the accelerating work on the site will draw more tourists to the area, one of the most important historical ruins of antiquity. The country’s culture ministry has declared 2018 the year of Troy and is planning a slew of events to promote the site.
A museum will open next year housing many of the key collections and archaeological findings from the site. The Turkish government is in talks with museums around the world that have artefacts from Troy to bring them back to Turkey. The most famous is the so-called Priam’s Treasure, a collection of gold, weapons, artefacts, goblets and diadems smuggled out by Schliemann to Berlin and then taken to Moscow after the second world war, where they remain in the Pushkin Museum.
Aslan describes the Troy site when he first visited it as a student in 1988 as a “ruin of a ruin”. For him, the museum is a dream come true.
The outdoor site is kept purposely minimalist, with almost no reconstruction except for a mud-brick layer in the central fort to protect the core of old Troy from the elements. Aslan wants visitors who stand before the walls and fortifications to imagine the duel of Hector and Achilles on the grounds beyond the western gate, to see in their mind’s eye Patroclus attempting to scale the walls, or Helen and Paris surveying the assembled Greek troops on the plains below from the citadel.
He has little doubt that the multi-layered city at Hisarlık is Homer’s Troy – based on the evidence of destruction, the Hittite agreement that references King Alaksandu (who is believed to be Paris, the Trojan whose elopement with Helen, queen of Sparta, supposedly sparked the war of Greek myth) and the natural scenery that corresponds to descriptions in the legend.
For some, the Trojan war is not merely the foundational tale of western literature but also the foundational story of conflict between the east, symbolised by Troy and its Hittite allies, and the west, symbolised by the Aegean Greeks.
Aslan sees many lessons for today’s world. The destruction of Troy was followed by more conflict as the Hittite, Mycenaean and Egyptian empires collapsed. There were no victors in those wars – “just like the war in Syria”, across the border from Turkey, he says.
He also sees a parallel between the flight of Syrian refugees to new lands and the legend told in Virgil’s Aeneid, in which a Trojan refugee settles in the west and becomes the ancestor of the Romans.
“It’s not easy work, and you cannot prove with just architecture or archaeological objects what happened,” Aslan says of the excavations. “But we add one more piece of evidence.”
!!!@@@$$$

We’d hired a little place in Vancouver to write songs. I’d been listening to Black Crow by Joni Mitchell and said to Ben, my songwriting partner: “Wouldn’t it be great if we could do a song with similar, flowing open chords?” I sat down with a little Casio keyboard and the music came quickly, but I struggled to write lyrics for months. Then one day I just sat at the window with a typewriter and the phrase “constant craving” came into my head. Once I had that, the lyrics flowed.
“Constant craving” relates to samsara, the Buddhist cycle of birth and death, but I wasn’t a practising Buddhist then so I honestly don’t know what the impetus for the song was. I just wrote it from the perspective of desire and longing.
I was singing off-key and didn’t know why – then I had root canal surgery and was cured
Recording it was tortuous. I was singing off key and didn’t know why, a shocking thing for a singer to experience. Then it turned out a dental problem was affecting my hearing. I had root canal surgery and was cured. If you’re a terrible singer, get a root canal!
Also, I was pissed off that we had this song. It was poppy, celebratory, upbeat and didn’t fit with the mood of the Ingénue album. I knew we needed a 10th song but dragged my heels and was reluctant to sing or record it. I guess part of me knew that it was going to be a big thing.
The year 1992 was a watershed for me because I came out as gay in The Advocate magazine. We released Constant Craving as a single and it did OK – then I did a photoshoot for Vanity Fair. I’d seen a French movie called The Hairdresser’s Husband and had this idea of being pictured in a barber’s shop, so my friend Herb Ritts took a photograph of me being shaved by Cindy Crawford, which they put on the cover. It caused a huge sensation. People started questioning Cindy’s sexuality but I’m very proud of that cover. I’m not sure Constant Craving would have been such a big hit without it and I don’t think I’d have been in The Advocate or Vanity Fair without Constant Craving. It was a moment in time that clicked.
The song is part of who I am. At the time there weren’t really any other pop stars who had properly come out, especially female. I was on the cusp of being really famous, so there was a lot to lose. The previous year, there was a huge backlash when I did a “Meat Stinks” campaign for Peta, but by the time I came out I think people had exhausted all their anger and hate for me. When we were nominated for the Grammys, there were religious groups outside picketing, but it wasn’t too bad.
Constant Craving was originally titled Easter Passover, because it was written on a day that coincides with both holidays. For me it’s like a spiritual, like We Shall Overcome: an inspirational song about getting through the shitty parts, which may be partly down to how it was made.
When we first started it, it was in a much slower tempo and didn’t have a melody at all. I sat there for two days just trying to settle on the right chords for the chorus. At one point, it got very eastern, because we’d been listening to klezmer music – very dark, minor key, Kurt Weill, dark cabaret, “I vont to be alone” music.
When we first recorded it, we put instruments on and took them off again. Then it turned out that it was in too low a key for kd’s voice, so it was almost abandoned. I stayed up late and reworked the guitars in a key that suited her, and she said: “OK, let’s leave it in the running.” If I hadn’t stayed up, it might never have been finished.
It was released in Britain first and nothing really happened. Some of the early reviews for the album were horrible. People magazine destroyed it, but other places loved it. And when DJs in America started playing it, the Warner Bros switchboard lit up with people calling in. Having such a big hit was life-changing.
Five years later, I got a call from the Rolling Stones’ management. They’d written a song called Anybody Seen My Baby, but Keith Richards’ daughter had told him, “Dad, that’s Constant Craving!” They were real gentlemen about the similarity and gave us songwriting credits. When I was a kid in garage bands playing Stones songs, we used to joke: “One day the Stones will cover one of ours.” So to have a credit reading Jagger/Richards/Lang/Mink is a childhood dream that I still can’t believe actually happened.
!!!@@@$$$

‘Photography is a base passion that has taken hold of every continent and every section of the population,” wrote the Austrian author Thomas Bernhard in 1988. “Everyone wants to be portrayed as good-looking and happy, when they are in fact ugly and unhappy.”
That same year, Thomas Ruff was revisiting a series of portraits he had made of his friends in the early 1980s, producing new colour prints that were vast in scale and meticulous in detail. Thirty years on, hung in a brightly lit room in the Whitechapel Gallery, they retain their power to unsettle, not least because of their uniformity, their almost forensic detachment. Everyone looks ordinary, neither flattered by Ruff’s camera nor aggrandised by the monumental prints. If anything, his subjects’ shared middle-class conformity is emphasised by the scale and detail.
Ruff’s head-and-shoulder studies are a deadpan retort to Bernhard’s salvo against photography as “a perverse and treacherous falsification”. Nevertheless, Ruff includes Bernhard’s broadside in the catalogue for this London retrospective under a section entitled Fragments, in which he cites several sources, from Bertolt Brecht to Michel Houellebecq, that have influenced his work.
One can see why. In ways he could not have imagined, Bernhard’s scathing summation of photography’s power to mesmerise, flatter and falsify has come to pass in the age of Instagram and the selfie. For that reason alone, this is a timely show, a chance to see the full breadth and prescient power of Ruff’s exploration of how photography has been put to use – by artists, scientists, archivists, curators as well as photographers – over the last four decades.
There is nothing straightforward about Ruff’s engagement with the medium. Instead, his images are often oblique, referencing art history from modernism to the present, and increasingly engaging not so much with photography as with the image culture that it is now enmeshed in. Like Christopher William, also the subject of a recent Whitechapel retrospective, Ruff makes photography about photography. Both his early interiors – functional, neat, inordinately tidy – and the Portraits series nod to the formal typologies of his art school teachers, Ben and Hilla Becher, founders of the so-called Düsseldorf School, which Ruff – like Thomas Struth and Candida Höfer – has been bracketed under.
Ruff appropriates and reworks found photographs culled from press archives, the internet and even outer space. He has blown up jpegs until their low resolution becomes a kind of pixellated abstraction, turning internet pornography into a kind of blurred – in every sense of the word – eroticism.
To wander through the Whitechapel show is to wonder at how photography has become as much about remaking images as making them – and to witness how deeply Ruff’s magpie imagination has engaged with the limits of photography in an age of image overload. Once you have passed through that bright room of big, almost uncannily blank portraits, there are several small surprises. A series called Other Portraits comprises just two large monochrome head-and-shoulders studies that, on first glance, appear to be of an anonymous man and woman. They are in fact composites of the two, one set of features imposed on the other. The results are unsettling, recalling blown up passport photos or criminal mugshots, but with a haunting – and haunted – quality.
His Nudes series, created between 1990 and 2012 by enlarging and blurring images of internet porn, possesses an unreal aura that is oddly beautiful. That aura also attends his Night series, made in German cities throughout the 1990s using a night-vision camera. Here, noirish streets and buildings seem shrouded in a misty aquamarine glow that recalls 1950s sci-fi films or noir thrillers. Sometimes, as in the room where the Victorian negatives (their colours inverted to even more ghostly effect) share space uneasily with Soviet-style images of machinery, one could be forgiven for thinking that each series is the work of a different photographer. It is a testament to Ruff’s rigour that such experimentation only occasionally fractures what is somehow, against all the odds, a sustained signature.
Of late, though, Ruff has tended towards pure texture. Three large-scale images from a recent series, entitled ma.r.s, are close-ups of the planet, in which the surface has been enhanced digitally to make it look even more alien, but also aesthetically arresting. One huge crater is a bas-relief that requires 3D glasses for the full effect.
Elsewhere, there are exercises in abstraction, press archive photographs overlaid with the information written on the back of the prints, and photograms that echo the experiments of modernist masters like Man Ray and Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, and – surprisingly – a selection of more recent images in which press archive photographs have been overlaid with the information written on the back of the prints. Given his preceding experiments with enhanced colour and form, this seems almost like a backwards step, the one note in the show when Ruff’s work seems to lag behind contemporary photography (its ongoing obsession with archives and found images) rather than anticipating it.
Ruff has come a long way from the almost dadaist provocation of one of his earliest series, shown here, in which he draped himself in absurd poses over his living room furniture – poking fun, it seems, at the formal constrictions of traditional portraiture and the excesses of staged, postmodern self-representation. Somewhere in this challenging retrospective, that sense of mischief gets lost amid all the inter-referentiality but, in this too, Ruff was ahead of the game. He anticipated the vibrant crisis that photography finds itself in, amid the deluge of online immateriality. And, for all that, he makes beautiful prints that echo the values of another time, one whose craft and modernist rigour still haunts our profligate image culture.
• Thomas Ruff: Photographs 1979–2017 is at the Whitechapel Gallery, London, 27 September to 21 January.
!!!@@@$$$

Not long to go before the remaining celebs (ie those lacking the common sense to quit) return to civilisation, but their preposterous endurance test isn’t quite over. Now dangerously underweight, they’re beset by yet another storm and sprinter Iwan Thomas is off on a doomed hunt. Then, at 10.20pm, in the follow-up show, Surviving the Island With Bear Grylls, the absentee antagonist finally returns to answer for himself. Ellen E Jones
Any hopes that ad breaks would mean the removal of GBBO’s historical interludes – previously tolerated as a welcome kettle-boiling window – have come to naught. In pudding week, Sandi Toksvig briefly leaves Noel Fielding unattended and goes to Cambridge to learn about the history of the college pudding. Back in the tent, the last 8 bakers attempt tasks involving steaming, tricky timing and a jiggling stack of creamy layers. Jack Seale
After last week’s head-exploder of an episode, there’s a feeling of calm in Doctor Foster town. Of course, it’s not going to last long. Shifty Simon (Bertie Carvel, bringing optimum smarm levels to the role) reckons he has got everything under control and can live happily ever after with Kate in that massive house of theirs. But cracks are showing in his perfect life and eyebrows will eventually be raised by some of the issues that emerge this week. Hannah Verdier
A very intimate look at what it means to be transgender. From participants here we learn about the courage and liberation of social transition (dressing and behaving in public as you identify, rather than how you were assigned). Meanwhile, we travel to the Netherlands, where scientists have led the field in trans physiology – and hear about the more controversial side of their research: puberty suppression. John Robinson
The conceit of this series is that each episode chronicles one season of Alaskan life. Tonight it’s spring, a time that seems proportionately more miraculous the colder the general climate – which means that Alaska’s spring is more invigorating than most, as snows melt, birds return and bears rise from hibernation. But Alaska’s spring is short: the abovementioned and other fauna have barely two months to find a mate and start a family. Andrew Mueller
David Simon and George Pelecanos’s new series recreates the seedy Manhattan of the early 1970s, beset by a drug epidemic and impending bankruptcy. It’s scrupulously vivid, from the garbage piled high to the finery of the pimps. We’re introduced to Vincent and Frankie Martino (both James Franco), very different twin brothers with mob connections, Maggie Gyllenhaal as canny sex worker Candy and Lawrence Gilliard Jr (The Wire’s D’Angelo) as a cop. David Stubbs
A double bill closes the current season for the titular pathologist. A murdered schoolteacher’s sleazy past leads Rosie and Villa into the world of trafficking, expectedly intermingling with Slade’s similarly sordid past. Then, after a series of sadistic jewellery store heists, the department is desperate to find a response. Plus, the head of the new LA lab is finally chosen. An opportunity to escape the comic stylings of Richie at long last? Mark Gibbings-Jones
The Woman in Black (James Watkins, 2012) 2.10am, Film4
Daniel Radcliffe starts laying to rest his Harry Potter persona with a tale that would probably feature in Voldemort’s collected favourites. Susan Hill’s ghost story, after 20 years in the West End, makes for a chilling Edwardian-era horror film. Radcliffe’s young solicitor, Arthur Kipps, is dispatched to a gothic mansion where the curse of the mysterious woman in black is doing away with the local children. Paul Howlett
WTA tennis: Tashkent Open Day two of the tournament in Uzbekistan. 6am, BT Sport 2
Uefa Champions League football: Spartak Moscow v Liverpool A long and testing trip for Jürgen Klopp’s team. 7pm, BT Sport 2
Golf: British Masters Eight players and a number of celebrities take part in a floodlit knockout tournament. 7.30pm, Sky Sports Main Event
!!!@@@$$$

The moment Nick Cave walks on to the Manchester Arena stage, before a note of music is played, a gruff male voice from the crowd bellows “I LOVE YOU!” The singer nods. “I’m glad we’ve got that sorted out,” he mutters.
Thirty-four years into their career, Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds are a band that inspire a certain kind of undying devotion among their fans: perhaps uniquely among his peers, Cave recently became the antihero of a phantasmagoric graphic novel, Reinhard Kleist’s Mercy On Me.
Nevertheless, even the most devoted might be forgiven for approaching their current tour with a certain degree of trepidation. On the face of it, it looks like a spectacular mismatch. After four decades, they find themselves playing the Sheds, as the music industry colloquially refers to Britain’s arena-sized venues. It’s testament to how popular an uncompromising artist can eventually become if they’re as good at what they do as Nick Cave is, but seems an unlikely fit given their recent musical history.
A huge chunk of the set list is derived from their last album, Skeleton Tree, a remarkable and potent work even by their standards, but one that seems almost singularly unsuited to ringing out around the kind of vast venues that usually play host to stadium rock bands, production-heavy pop extravaganzas and indeed the deathless hilarity of funnyman Michael McIntyre.
The issue isn’t so much the devastating emotional tenor of an album recorded in the wake of Cave’s son’s death, although the fact that listening to Skeleton Tree frequently feels uncomfortably like intruding on someone’s grief is hard to get away from – “I want the shows to be uplifting and inspiring and for people to walk away feeling better than when they came, not some sort of empathetic contagion that goes through the crowd and people walk out feeling like shit,” Cave recently told the Guardian.
It’s more the actual sound of the album: as abstract and unruly in its own way as anything Cave’s old mob The Birthday Party came up with, a mass of electronic loops, ragged vocals, rhythms that clatter out of time with the rest of the track, songs that keep vanishing beneath grinding noise. It’s about as far removed from the kind of music built to rouse arena audiences as it’s possible to get: opening the set with a salvo of three Skeleton Tree tracks – the first, Anthrocene, the most abstract and unruly of the lot – seems an undertaking that in theory is either extremely brave or suicidal.
But there was something else Cave said in the same interview, about songs taking on a life of their own: “Songs are strange things … they’re patient, and wait for the meaning, and the meaning changes through the years.”
And so it proves tonight. While the lyrics of Red Right Hand are subtly updated – the murderous protagonist now sends “angry little tweets” – Anthrocene and the other tracks from Skeleton Tree appear stripped back and tightened up, with most of the short-circuiting sonic turmoil removed to reveal something beautiful and stately, not a million miles removed from the beautifully drawn ballads Cave and the Bad Seeds pluck from their back catalogue on stage.
You can draw a direct line between the heartbreakingly beautiful Girl in Amber and The Ship Song or Into My Arms. They reserve a sense of barely contained chaos for the earliest songs they perform, 1984’s From Her to Eternity and the following year’s Tupelo: tonight, both are genuinely awe-inspiring exercises in explosive, tumultuous fury.
The Bad Seeds sound fantastic – it’s hard to think of another band that can shift so seamlessly from elegance and control to white-knuckled bedlam. Cave himself, meanwhile, remains as magnetic an onstage presence as ever. He starts the gig seated, but quickly repairs to a barrier at the front of the stage, balanced precariously in front of the crowd, gripping the front row’s hands for support as he sings, breaking off from a particularly coruscating version of From Her to Eternity to thank an audience member for passing him a tissue: “That’s incredibly considerate of you.”
At one point, he starts beckoning the audience forward, and the entire standing area of the venue starts moving towards him. When it comes to the encore, he removes his sock and hands it to a fan he earlier admonished for taking photographs of his ankles, then begins plucking out people from the crowd until the stage is filled with fans, among them a child who looks about 10 and, a little disturbingly, appears to have a word-perfect knowledge of The Bad Seeds’ spectacularly foul-mouthed reimagining of the 100-year-old American folk song Stagger Lee.
It’s a joyous and unexpected finale to a joyous and unexpectedly triumphant gig.
!!!@@@$$$

Sir Terry Wogan has been voted the greatest BBC radio presenter, in a survey of leading figures in broadcasting to mark the 50th anniversary of Radios 1, 2, 3 and 4.
Wogan topped the poll ahead of John Peel, Sue MacGregor, Annie Nightingale and Alistair Cooke. Chris Evans, who was paid at least £2.2m last year by the BBC and is its highest paid on-air star, according to its official pay list, ranked 26th.
Wogan joined the BBC in 1966 and went on to present the Radio 2 breakfast show for 28 years across two stints. Wake Up to Wogan attracted more than 8 million listeners and at its peak was the most popular radio programme in Europe. Wogan, who was knighted in 2005, died last year.
The Radio Times polled 39 men and 39 women working in broadcasting, including the Today presenter John Humphrys, the author Philip Pullman and the BBC’s former director of radio Helen Boaden, asking them each to name their top 15 broadcasters on BBC radio.
Second-placed Peel was renowned for promoting new artists on Radio 1 and also presented Home Truths on Radio 4. MacGregor, who ranked third, has presented Woman’s Hour and the Today programme, and still fronts The Reunion on Radio 4.
Nightingale was Radio 1’s first female presenter when she joined the service in the late 1960s. Now 77, she still has a show on Radio 1 and is its longest-serving DJ. Fifth-placed Cooke wrote and presented Letter from America from 1946 to 2004.
The BBC is hosting a series of events to mark the 50th anniversary of its radio services, including a “live lounge month” on Radio 1 and a pop-up digital station, Radio 1 Vintage, launching at 6am Friday.
Tony Blackburn, who spoke the first words on Radio 1 in 1967, will present a programme on Vintage alongside the current Radio 1 breakfast show host, Nick Grimshaw, and there will be 50 one-hour shows, including archive material from the likes of Peel and Zoë Ball.
Also among the top 10 presenters in the Radio Times poll were Kenny Everett, one of Radio 1’s original DJs and twice fired by the BBC; Jane Garvey, the Woman’s Hour presenter who has led the criticism of the gender pay gap at the BBC; the jazz presenter Humphrey Lyttelton; Radio 4’s PM host Eddie Mair; and Garvey’s co-presenter on Woman’s Hour, Jenni Murray.
Notable absentees from the list include Grimshaw, Chris Moyles, Simon Mayo and the Today presenters Nick Robinson and Sarah Montague.
!!!@@@$$$

So the supremely creepy truth about Patrick Barker – the city type with the Kingsman glasses who we saw fleeing the country in episode one – emerges. He was having an affair with Sally, his wife Rebecca’s 20-year-old daughter from another marriage. When Rebecca caught the icky couple in bed, a distressed Sally brained her with a trophy Patrick had received for “thought leadership” in 2003. His subsequent thought leadership involved desecrating Rebecca’s body and dumping it in a children’s playpark to make it seem like the work of the acid killer.
Despite Patrick’s gory efforts at misdirection, Gabriel seemed to intuit that there was something off about him. But Richard Dormer’s raspy DCI abandoned the Barker investigation to track down his own daughter, Hannah, who had bunked off school to do some serious booze preloading before an illicit rave. In the end – also the beginning – Gabriel and Shepard caught up with a semi-conscious Hannah barely in time to save her from a sexual assault. In other words, this was the grimmest, grubbiest Rellik yet.
Things kick off 11 days before episode two – another chronological jump so substantial it feels like it must be intentional. With Rellik’s tricksy reverse narrative structure, perhaps writers Jack and Harry Williams intend to present episodes as discrete jigsaws to be pieced together rather than parts of an intimidatingly large whole. Again, we’re in gloomy London at night, with Gabriel having retrieved Hannah from what was clearly a dodgy situation – she lies dishevelled and zonked out in the back seat of Shepard’s car.
Once Hannah is home safe, Gabriel and wife Lisa have a brittle discussion about who might be to blame for their daughter acting out. Again it is implied that they are both guilty of some horrible – though separate? – misdeeds. Cut to Patrick Barker and his suspiciously young girlfriend, tossing some rolling luggage, women’s clothes and a big red hat into an abandoned car and setting it alight. “Is this what you really want, love?” he asks the girl, and there’s something weird about his intonation.
The action rewinds to almost three hours earlier, with cops Mike and Asim waiting to interrogate concierge Brian Sweeney, who is late clocking on. (We later hear that Sweeney works 9pm to 9am, so this must be a little after 9pm.) The body of resident Rebecca Barker was been found, but Brian swears he saw her leave the building that morning, and – rather conveniently – has a smartphone recording to corroborate his story. Meanwhile, Gabriel is tearing through pubs and nightclubs in search of Hannah. Amid a druggy rave, he finds her passed out in a back room with a leering, semi-naked man who Gabriel immediately attacks with alarming, if understandable, ferocity.
Another rewind, with flashes of a naked couple in bed. Gabriel and Shepard? Barker and his girlfriend? It’s almost six hours earlier, and we briefly check in with psychiatrist Isaac Taylor and Christine during a therapy session, one which the patient does not seem to be taking particularly seriously, judging by her sly Gloria Gaynor impression. Both seem to open up a little but the key moment comes when Isaac is called away and Christine, to her horror, discovers he has been taping their sessions on his laptop.
If there was any doubt that Patrick Barker was guilty, we see him patiently scrubbing at a stain on a door and trying to reassure his girlfriend – Sally, he calls her – that there was no other way to avoid what happened. Shortly afterwards and he’s sitting across the interrogation table from Gabriel looking plausibly distraught, having been informed of his wife’s death. As with all the acid murders, the face and fingertips had been burned off, but Rebecca had been promptly identified by the serial number on her breast implants.
Both Gabriel and Shepard suspect there’s more to Barker than meets the eye, but they get diverted by the news that Hannah has bunked off school. After a confrontational trip to her tearaway pal Cassie’s flat, Gabriel hears that Hannah knows about his affair. But is he hiding something else?
Spool back 12 hours and a bloodstained Patrick is preparing to send Sally out in disguise so Brian the concierge can corroborate their story. There is a brief cut to the Markham family home, where we witness Hannah hearing her parents having a fight, which seems like a rather convenient way for her to find out about Gabriel’s affair. Unaware of how bad his day is going to get, Gabriel is called to the latest murder scene, where the sloppiness of the acid burns bothers him. “That’s the part the killer takes time over,” he muses. Shepard suggests it might be a copycat.
The last rewind is another 13 hours to poor Rebecca and her little lapdog returning home early from a business trip to discover Patrick having sex with Sally. It’s only then that we discover that Patrick has seduced the daughter he apparently raised as his own. In a panicked fury, Sally kills her mother before she can reveal the affair. In the shellshocked aftermath, Patrick comes up with his grisly plan: to pin the murder on the acid killer …
So how does this eventful 36 hours look when viewed forwards? Patrick and Sally kill Rebecca after she discovers them in bed. The next morning, Sally pretends to be Rebecca while Patrick dumps her mutilated body in a park. Hannah Markham learns about her father’s affair and skips school. Gabriel and Shepard investigate the latest acid killer crime scene but tacitly agree that the latest body might be the work of a copycat. Patrick is pulled in to the station to be informed of his wife’s murder and is held under vague pretences late into the night. But instead of focusing on the case, Gabriel is tearing up London’s illegal rave scene looking for his missing daughter. He and Shepard find Hannah, while Patrick and Sally are burning all the incriminating evidence. And since we didn’t hear about any of this in the first two episodes, it looks as if they’ve got away with it.
• There haven’t been many gags in Rellik but Brian whiling away his night shifts by using his smartphone to dictate a racy novel – imagining a heroic concierge’s encounter with a “fulsome bosom” – was a nice change of pace: “Love had placed him on a different spiritual plane …”
• Another funny, if cruel line, was the hipster DJ’s response to scarred Gabriel’s aggressive line of questioning about his daughter’s whereabouts: “You’re a long way from Mordor, ain’t ya?”
• This week’s cop shop B-plot involved an escalating prank war between detective constables Sam and Andrea that, in reverse chronology, kicked off with the horrific, context-free sight of a slaughtered pig oozing blood all over a living room. A cheap shock, but an effective one.
• There was one last big fright in the final moments of the episode: who was the hooded figure ominously surveilling Gabriel in his kitchen?
Were you shocked by the Barker family revelations? Have you warmed to the reverse-chronology structure? Have there been too many red herrings? Let us know your thoughts and theories in the comments below.
!!!@@@$$$

Strictly Come Dancing and the X Factor have been battling it out for Saturday night audiences for 13 years, but the BBC show struck an unprecedented blow against its ITV rival last weekend by attracting almost 5 million more viewers in a record victory.
The contrasting performances of Strictly and the X Factor have raised questions about whether the ITV show has fallen into terminal decline despite creator Simon Cowell attempting to shake it up this year.
The X Factor attracted 4.8 million average overnight viewers on Saturday night, an all-time low for an episode of Cowell’s singing contest, which like Strictly launched in 2004.
In contrast, the first live episode of Strictly’s 2017 series attracted an average of 9.4 million viewers, a record for the opening show and up from 8.7 million last year.
The X Factor’s performance improved slightly on Sunday to 6.2 million average overnight viewers, but this is still well down on the programme’s peak in 2010, when 17.2 million viewers tuned in to see painter Matt Cardle win the final.
Tom Harrington, a TV analyst at Enders, said singing contests had become “stale” and questioned whether ITV would continue to put the X Factor up against Strictly.
“Shows are often moved around, including by the BBC, which sits on top of the channel listing but doesn’t have everything its own way – it moved The Big Family Cooking Showdown, so as not to clash with Bake Off on Channel 4, and it brought forward Poldark so as not to share a Sunday night again with ITV’s Victoria,” he said.
“Strictly and X Factor have been going head to head in some capacity for years and, up to this time, that consistency indicates that for both the BBC and ITV that arrangement works. That may change, however, with X Factor’s decline.”
Despite the X Factor’s falling audience, Harrington said it remained valuable to ITV. The programme reaches more 16- to 34-year-olds than Strictly – a valuable market for advertisers – and its viewing figures are expected to rise significantly when people watching the X Factor on catch-up services or recordings are taken into account.
“X Factor has been slipping since the heights of the late 2000s when the discovery of acts like Matt Cardle and Little Mix resonated with viewers,” Harrington said. “Singing contests have inevitably grown somewhat stale, a trend hurried along by the sheer number of them – in the past year, BBC has announced that neither Pitch Battle nor Garry Barlow’s Let It Shine will return for a second season.
“That being said, even as it stands X Factor remains a guaranteed pull for a sizeable audience, and one that is relatively young. It is important to note that on Saturday, X Factor was markedly more popular amongst the 16 to 34s than Strictly.”
Cowell has made changes to the X Factor this year in an attempt to improve viewing figures after a disappointing 2016, when the final was the least watched since the first in 2004.
There are expected to be fewer live X Factor shows in this series, and contestants will leave the programme on Saturdays and Sundays, rather than just in the Sunday episode.
A jukebox feature used to seemingly randomly select the theme of each week’s show has also been scrapped, while former judge Cheryl Cole is expected to return for the judge’s house stage. Despite the changes, the judges remain Cowell, Sharon Osbourne, Nicole Scherzinger and Louis Walsh, with Dermot O’Leary presenting the show.
While X Factor’s audience has been declining since 2010, Strictly’s has risen. The BBC dancing competition achieved its record viewing figures of 11.8 million in last year’s final, in which Ore Oduba beat actor Danny Mac and former singer Louise Redknapp.
BBC sources say the broadcaster is delighted with Strictly’s performance, particularly after the new series was criticised for featuring a supposedly underwhelming collection of celebrities. They also denied that the publicly owned organisation was being overly aggressive by scheduling the programme against X Factor, which generates millions of pounds of advertising for ITV.
Saturday’s episode of Strictly lasted for two and a half hours and the last 45 minutes overlapped with the X Factor. This contributed to X Factor’s audience dropping 1.5 million compared with the previous weekend when it did not clash with Strictly.
A BBC spokesperson said: “It’s up to other broadcasters how they schedule their programmes, but we have always broadcast Strictly at the heart of the Saturday night schedule – precisely where the public want the biggest show on TV.” ITV declined to comment.
The Strictly episode included the introduction of new head judge Shirley Ballas and a tribute to former host Sir Bruce Forsyth, who died last month. Aston Merrygold, the former JLS singer, topped the leaderboard. Other celebrities performing in Strictly this year include comedian Brian Conley, Paralympic champion Jonnie Peacock, and broadcaster and former stage performer Debbie McGee.
Despite Strictly performing stronger than the X Factor, ITV has enjoyed success elsewhere in the ratings battle. The first episode of Liar, a drama starring Joanne Froggatt and Ioan Gruffudd, attracted 8 million viewers, making it ITV’s highest rated new drama this year.
!!!@@@$$$

Star Trek posits a future of feminism, political rapprochement between generations-old enemies and the pursuit of racial equality. But it’s also only as progressive as its writers think their audience is. Maybe that’s why the latest version, Star Trek: Discovery, is more depressing than it probably intends to be.
It’s not bad at all. In fact, the new show probably has a genuine star on its hands in Sonequa Martin-Green, the first woman of color to act in the role of series protagonist. She is preceded in the position by both a woman – Kate Mulgrew, who led the good ship Voyager – and another person of color – Avery Brooks, hero of Deep Space Nine – by more than two decades, so she is asked to prove herself a bit less than she might be otherwise, and she is often the anchor that keeps Discovery from drifting off into the shallows of artificially high stakes, over-explained backstory, and tertiary plot threads that pervade so much contemporary sci-fi.
Discovery’s first two episodes amount to an old-fashioned two-hour pilot – a long-form bait-and-switch that establishes our crew, captain and quest and then tosses them all in a blender.
Those episodes are often gripping, but they don’t accomplish as much narratively as one might hope. For one thing, they don’t quite put Martin-Green’s character, Michael Burnham, on the Discovery itself, much less in the captain’s chair. Two actors named in the opening credits, Anthony Rapp and Jason Isaacs, don’t even have a moment of screen time, for another. This is a serialized show that aims to reward time invested, not to do something as paltry as entertain its viewers an hour at a time.
Michael is a wonderful character, an homage to Leonard Nimoy’s Mr Spock, who is her adoptive brother, according to the network. She is a human raised by emotionless Vulcans, and the way Martin-Green plays her longing for her father, distant both physically and spiritually, gives her a rare texture.
When the series begins, Michael is second-in-command to Michelle Yeoh’s Philippa Georgiou, an experienced and levelheaded captain who commands respect and admiration in much the same way as Patrick Stewart’s Jean-Luc Picard. And as the show’s Picard was to commander Riker, so is Captain Georgiou to Michael: a mentor, a friend, a surrogate parent. There is a crew of recognizable actors, notably a blessedly comic turn from Doug Jones as the fretful science officer, and then everything goes horribly, but excitingly, wrong.
Discovery, laden with eye-popping special effects but rather short on high concepts, owes less to other shows in the TV franchise than to the recently revitalized series of movies. JJ Abrams’ first two films, especially Star Trek: Into Darkness, are generic blockbusters, larded with both nostalgized callouts to ageing intellectual property and some artificial gravitas in the form of the visual language of war and terrorism we know from TV news. At the climax of Into Darkness, an extravagant riff on Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan, a rogue spaceship captain flies his vessel into a city, with all the attendant collapsing architecture and plummeting masonry we now, for some reason, permit in our entertainment.
Discovery pulls similar tricks, albeit less ponderously and without the thick-as-an-oil-slick sheen of nostalgia. Michael doesn’t really journey much of anywhere on purpose – she is on less of a star trek than a star war. She accidentally kills someone almost immediately, and then wins the subsequent confrontation with a Klingon military unit by booby-trapping a dead body. She ends up in the brig at the end of the first episode, and convicted of serious crimes at the end of the second –reversals of fortune the show takes far more seriously than the occasional war crime.
Michael is compelling largely because her character is younger and less likely to correctly solve the problems she faces than her predecessors; the steely confidence Martin-Green brings to the role makes it all the more shocking when she doesn’t succeed. The enemy race here are the Klingons, an alien species newly reimagined and re-revised as darker-skinned on average. The new-old Klingons wear gold skirts and carry elaborate swords – Worf’s bat’leth looks practical and conservative by comparison to its 24th-century ancestor – and their noses are flared.
I would never accuse a contemporary television show of not being self-aware enough to elide the various unflattering cultural comparisons that a wildly otherized violent alien race is more or less guaranteed to call up. Indeed, the writers have already been hard at work characterizing the Klingon rhetoric (“remain Klingon!” is an especially on-the-nose battle cry) as a dissenting response to racist rhetoric from Donald Trump. But it says something more complexly Trumpian about our cultural moment that we seem to need shocking savages for enemies, however much we may deign to humanize them at our eventual convenience.
For all their faults, the previous series had a tendency toward gentleness; the best episodes of the old shows tended to hinge on the crew’s desperate search for nonviolent or at least non-lethal solutions to some seemingly intractable problem. Discovery, I guess in the name of a more grave and serious show about alien monsters and time travel, ostentatiously walks a darker path, and on that path are a lot of our worst tendencies. It will be interesting to see whether those tendencies merit a more serious exploration.
!!!@@@$$$

During a career now spanning 40-odd years, AC/DC’s Angus Young has become renowned for many things: his distinctive dress sense, his devil’s horns, and a signature guitar sound that has inspired headbangers everywhere and helped shift several hundred million records worldwide.
While the origin of his fondness for school uniforms, and the band’s name – both courtesy of his sister Margaret – are relatively well-known, what’s not so familiar is the different inspirations for the many tricks Young pulls off during one of his typically tireless, frenetic live performances. Allow me, if you will, to spill the beans.
Young would have been perfectly comfortable if the recording of music ended some time around the late 1950s. He has regularly paid dues to the artists that have inspired him musically, and most come from the earliest days of rock’n’roll: I’m talking Little Richard, Buddy Holly and the like. But the influence of the recently departed Chuck Berry extends beyond Young’s playing and writing.
Berry actually inspired the frenzied duckwalk that Young pulls off every night. Admittedly, Young’s duckwalk comes at a much faster clip than Berry’s; the onstage Angus always looks and plays like a man in a hurry. There’s also Young’s habit of “conducting” an audience with his guitar, playing a flurry of notes, stopping abruptly, inciting the crowd to chant and then repeating the process until he’s flailing at his Gibson and the crowd is wailing along like banshees. Again. Berry inspired: “When [Berry] was singing,” Young once revealed, “he always had little raps with the audience ... I figured if Chuck could do it with his voice, I could do it with my guitar.”
This is the routine where Young drops to the floor of the stage and while gyrating madly and kicking his legs like a dying cockroach, fires off an inspired solo. This routine came about purely by accident; one night Young slipped over while playing, and fearing being mocked by the crowd, stayed down and kept soloing, doing his utmost to make it appear intentional. “I tripped over a lead,” Angus told a DJ from Sydney radio station 2JJ, “and fell on me knees. I thought people thought I was a fuckin’ idiot so I started bobbin’ around on the ground.”
Young has always had a thing for heights; as soon as the band started playing larger shows he’d usually end up on top of a PA or speaker stack, soloing as if his life depended on it, sometimes dodging bottles as he played. However, in 1986, while shooting the video for Who Made Who, Young had a very uneasy moment as he was lowered by wires from a second-storey balcony on to the stage floor – he felt genuine fear. “My whole life flashed before me,” he admitted, “and since I’m pretty short, that’s not very long.” Soon after, a doctor gave Angus an unexpected prognosis: he suffered from acrophobia and probably had for years.
A favourite part of the “Bon and Angus show” – the double-headed beast that was such a trademark of early AC/DC – was the big moment, often during the track Livewire, when the brawny singer would hoist the scrawny guitarist on to his shoulders and carry him around the venue, parting punters like Moses did the Red Sea. Curiously, Bon “borrowed” the move from Brian Johnson, when he caught the future AC/DC shouter in his first band, Geordie, doing the exact same thing with that band’s guitarist, Vic Malcolm.
As anyone close to the AC/DC onstage action can attest, especially during the early days of the band, coming too near Young in full flight could be dangerous. Mark Evans, their original bassist, revealed to me while writing High Voltage that the young Angus’ diet – a not quite department of health-approved blend of ciggies, chocolate milk and spaghetti bolognaise – would result in him emitting what Evans called a “snot cyclone” as he played, which usually left its mark over eager punters down front. Duck and cover.
Angus also sheds as much as 2kg per show purely in sweat Backstage, band members would look on in shock as he removed the scratch plate of his guitar and poured out what seemed like litres of his own sweat. Nowadays he has someone to do that onerous task for him; but at 62, Angus still works hard for his money: a handy nest egg that currently sits at around $200m.
• Jeff Apter is the author of High Voltage: The Life of Angus Young – AC/DC’s Last man Standing (Nero)
!!!@@@$$$

In our high-vocational stress household, the most volcanic tension usually erupts over control of the PlayStation. I’m still – still – absorbed in the game of Fallout 4 I started a year ago, with thousands of hours spent on perfecting the aesthetics of post-apocalyptic settlement-building. My partner prefers a wordless immersion in the splattery worlds of first-person shooters and war games but we reconcile over rounds of two-player Diablo, fighting demons and hoarding treasure together.
I’ve come a long way from the handheld Donkey Kong I cherished as a child, or the Pitfall caves I explored on a home PC, or the small parties of teens that gathered to play Sonic the Hedgehog on the loungeroom TV. The demands of fun are more complex now – but the need for fun remains the same.
Games not only mean different things to different people; they speak to the spectrum of moods and feelings in the individual human heart. As much as organised internet insistence may reduce the image of the modern gamer to a simple stereotype of those who are young, angry, pale and isolated, decades of video games have now spawned generations of adult players who bring their own complexities to electronic fun.
The answer to the question “What makes a gamer?” could be a need for connection, or for isolation, for relaxation or intellectual rigour, but it’s a question that can only be answered by gamers themselves. So I asked six of them.
Secretary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions
If it surprises you that the new leader of the Australian union movement describes herself as “the definition of a total gamer”, it shouldn’t. McManus came of age within Australia’s onset video game generation. “I’ve been playing games since DOS,” she tells me, “back when the computer was downstairs in the house, like it was a dungeon.”
Perhaps more surprising is the fact that the tireless political campaigner also loves playing strategy games in her downtime – even when she’s on planes. “My favourite game of all time is Civilization. I’ve played every version. When a new game comes out, I watch it and wait for it and I’m one of the first to buy it,” McManus says. The multiplayer strategic franchise forces the player to think on multiple levels. “You have to plan, adapt to different circumstances. A good game of Civilization can go for days – but the point where you start a new one and [it] randomly generates a map and you have to evaluate where you are, that’s so exciting. The first five moves you make are essential to what your empire is going to be like.”
It’s hard not to imagine parallels between her gaming instincts and her work. “Many years of my life have been spent waking up and thinking, ‘I know what I’ve got to do. I’ve got to invade from the north’,” she says. “It’s a problem you’ve got in the back of your mind that you’re thinking through all the time. I love it. It’s like a game of chess but it’s much more interesting.”
At home, McManus is playing Metal Gear Solid on her PlayStation. “It’s a first-person stealth and shooter game; you’re one character and you infiltrate everything from oil rigs to camps in the forest.” She’s also playing Skyrim. “Finding new things, choosing your weapons, upgrading your weapons – I love an open world game.” It’s the strategy, the tactics – even the patience – that appeals.
“I will always be a gamer,” she says. “I’ll get bored, really bored, with a bad game … I’ve got low patience with predictable games.”
Graphic design student
“I remember reaching for an arcade game at the fish and chip shop as a very small child, back in the days of Wonder Boy,” Anniene Stockton says. “I’ve been playing since I could hold a controller.”
A longtime PlayStation and PC gamer, Stockton’s relationship to gaming took a significant turn in the aftermath of a personal tragedy. A veteran of Melbourne’s fringe and cabaret community, Stockton shattered her leg in a dance accident. She was left with a permanent disability, in a brace, dosed up with painkillers to treat chronic pain. Her colourful world suddenly shrunk.
That’s when she stumbled onto the modern phenomenon of the live-streaming games community. “I discovered [live-streaming gaming platform] Twitch during a particularly fierce bout with my leg. I came across this video streaming site, had a bit of an explore and I saw a guy dressed as a pirate playing a video game and interacting with an IRC chat at the same time. I thought, ‘What’s this?’ And I stuck around to check it out. It lifted my mood and kept me distracted, and I decided it was a place that I could hang out.”
Now Stockton herself is a “Twitch Affiliate”, audio-narrating her own adventures in PC games to her new community, from home, in her pyjamas. Her equipment limits her to PC but she chooses “what’s entertaining for me to play and people to watch: Minecraft, Shadowrun, Don’t Starve – and my current is Stardew Valley”.
“The problem with chronic pain is that so many tasks and social activities people take for granted are either out of my reach, or so exhausting that I’m severely limited as to what I can do,” she says. “My disability leaves me quite isolated. Twitch not only gives me the sense of other people in the house but social interaction and connection, because I can chat with people in real time.
“Even though my streams aren’t as technologically whizzbang as others, people started tuning in partly because they already knew me from other channels and wanted to hang out.”
Performing artist and comedian
Jordan Raskopoulos, of the musical comedy act Axis of Awesome, lives in a home she describes as a “Nintendo museum”.
“I got my first Commodore 64 in around 1989, for my birthday,” she says. “I would have been six or seven. And before that I remember playing my uncle’s old Nintendo games, and I played LCD games like Donkey Kong Jr and I think there was a Zelda.”
But it was Nintendo with which the comedian bonded: her collection of Nintendo devices overspill her house.
Why such a bond with computer games? “I think part of it is that it helps me deal with my anxiety,” she tells me. “My brain doesn’t switch off, I worry and think all the time. Doing relaxing things isn’t relaxing for me. Sitting down in the sun is the worst. If I occupy my brain with something complicated, something that demands a lot of strategy, that takes my mind off my troubles, off everything ... I feel like my brain always has to be working at 100%, so if I find something that can occupy it 100% that’s a really good thing.”
Raskopoulos is currently playing a lot of Overwatch, Heroes of the Storm and Player Unknown: Battlegrounds, “which is kinda like a Hunger Games sort of thing … You all start out in the wilderness area and start scavenging for weapons, and the game makes the area smaller and smaller until you start fighting each other … I’m also playing a lot of Hero Academy 2 on my phone.”
Gaming isn’t something Raskopoulos restricts to the electronic; her whirring mind expends its energies into table-based board gaming too. “I’m preparing some models for the release of the Death Guard Codex this week. I paint little soldiers and fight the wars on tables full of little trees.”
Raskopoulos attends tabletop tournaments for war games. I ask if she may logically progress into competitive gaming, or eSports. “I think [eSports] is an amazing social phenomenon,” she says. “I find it fascinating how much has been borrowed from the language and performance of [traditional] sports coverage. It’s both a tribute to and a parody of those things. That’s fascinating.
“I don’t think I would be a competitor but I could see myself commentating or playing for entertainment purposes. Like celebrity golf.”
Actor, theatre-maker, artistic director
When Maeve MacGregor’s father was still alive, they used to play games together at the local internet cafe. “My dad wasn’t around in the first years of my life. I went to visit him once or twice a year in Cairns, where he was working in the 1990s. He introduced me to my first games on those trips.
“When he came back to Tasmania, when I was 11, gaming become a big part of us getting to know each other again,” she says. “We played Unreal Tournament together, which is the only first-person shooter I’ve ever really enjoyed, because it handled easily, because it was kinda silly – not based on real war – and because I played it with my dad. Also, I was better than him at it – I could never ever win at real-time strategy games against him. Except, I think, Dungeon Keeper. Once.”
MacGregor still games but is less inclined these days to play in a group. “I hate being threatened with rape by strangers on the internet,” she says. She is currently a keen player of Starcraft II. “I can make change in this tiny, imaginary place,” she says, when asked to describe what she gets out of gaming. “It’s also something that I share with my partner: we watch each other play and introduce each other to new games. He doesn’t play as much as I do but every couple of months he gets a craving for some Xbox and I love backseat-gaming him. It’s really funny.”
MacGregor isn’t averse to the violent content in games, although she prefers the worlds they operate in to be governed by “black and white morality”, to limit the parameters of game violence.
“I’m a big fan of the Fable series and in Fable you can interact with children but the game mechanics won’t allow you to hurt them,” MacGregor says. “I like existing in a world where hurting children is off limits.”
Provisional psychologist, completing a PhD
Shauntelle Benjamin was a latecomer to gaming. She started playing around five years ago having long foregone the consoles that amused her when she was a child. Now an adult, she was overworked and needed a new way to relax. “I met this guy and he was like ‘play a video game’ and it seemed to work, to take my mind away from stuff.” She’s no longer with the guy (“he was too relaxed”) but the games have remained part of her life.
What hooked her was the building game Minecraft. “There were three of us living in this house,” she says, “and using a server meant the three of us and other people could join that same game. We were building our own community as we were building things in that shared world. It was really communal.” Others listened to podcasts while Minecrafting; Benjamin listened to her university lectures.
It was a good strategy – she’s now only two years out from completing a PhD. Her game tastes have also expanded. “I usually go for something more strategy based – Civilization, Prison Architect, XCom 2 ... anything that involves building – building up a team, building up a group, or a world,” she says. “I’m one of those unfortunate people who can get seasick playing some games, so those turn-based games mean I can play longer.”
As a provisional psychologist, does she recommend games as a safe place to channel feelings? “Depends on the game,” she replies. “Some games are designed to remove empathy from you, so you can kill people. But Minecraft, Terraria – games that a lot of kids play – they tend to be relaxing. Adults tend to enjoy them because it’s an opportunity to do something mindlessly. There’s a lot of people out there playing Candy Crush to take their mind off something. I know psychologists who play games on their phone between appointments, because they need to switch off their brains.”
Office administrator
For Lisa Banyard, a sole parent who lives in Logan City, Queensland, gaming began as a way to bond with her teenage son.
“It started with both of us playing the Lord of the Rings games together,” she says. “He would have been 11, 12, 13. It was when the Lord of the Rings movies were coming out. We’d go see the movie, treat ourselves to Gold Class and have a special mum and son day, with the video game on pre-order. Then we’d spend days playing it. You needed two people to defeat the orcs – they’re pretty hectic.”
Banyard’s gaming experience has developed alongside her relationship to her son, over many years. As a soccer player, he gravitated towards the Fifa game series, and Banyard played too. She came to see the game as an extension of their physical lives: “Driving endless hours to training, him playing games and me watching, and driving to more goalkeeper training. Him playing football himself, me being an observer on the sideline.” Club loyalties are part of the attraction, too. “In Fifa, you can choose your players and choose your team. So I think our bond over Liverpool FC is in there as well … You’re even yelling at the referees – like going and seeing it live.”
When her son turned 18 and started university, the PlayStation was relocated from the family loungeroom to his bedroom – and now, to enjoy the Fifa game experience, Banyard must “endure the chaos.” The game remains no less distracting, with its powerful soundtrack and atmosphere.
“I’m always in teenage mum mode,” Banyard says. “I can’t help looking around thinking, ‘He’s got to pick that up.’”
!!!@@@$$$

Opening at the Ferens Art Gallery in Hull, the 2017 Turner prize is an uneven and at times frustrating exhibition. Relaxing the upper age limit for nominated artists is a good thing. Some artists don’t hit their stride until relatively late or are, for various reasons, overlooked. For a long time Lubaina Himid, born in Zanzibar in 1954, was just such a case. In the last couple of years, major solo shows in Oxford and Bristol, and her inclusion in a survey of 1980s black art, have brought her a new audience and increased visibility. Her 1987 tableau, A Fashionable Marriage, is a take on William Hogarth’s Marriage a la Mode, restaged as a series of cut-out figures. It remains the best thing in Himid’s Turner prize exhibition, which is a pity.
Her 2007 paintings on butter dishes, jugs, plates and tureens overlay the glazed crockery with fat-cat country squires lumbering about on horses, black servants and slaves, querulous ladies pondering the abolition of slavery, in a motley procession of 18th and 19th-century types. Riffing on the satirical prints of Gilray and Rowlandson, Himid shows what an accomplished graphic artist she is.
In another series, she works over pages and spreads from the Guardian, between 2007-2015. There are knives, guns, teeth and abstract, optical patterning, all relating more or less directly to stories about black sportsmen and women, police killings in the US, street gangs in London, and a host of other stories. Himid’s adumbrations are well done but minor. Her one, recent painting is a still and stilted thing. Were it not for her earlier work, would she be in the Turner prize now?
Too many paintings by Hurvin Anderson fill another gallery, in a survey of works from the last decade. I have always liked his barbershop paintings, and the way he uses the paraphernalia of bottles and products, the mirrors and posters and illustrations of haircuts on the walls as a kind of abstraction – they make you think of abstract expressionist Hans Hofman’s push-and-pull rectangles of dancing colour, and also at times of Dutch painter René Daniëls’ plays between figuration and abstraction.
In some of Anderson’s work, this game becomes a more awkward play between quotation and derivation. It is almost impossible to paint without quotation. I’m less interested in Anderson’s paintings of trees and foliage. Sam Francis is in there, along with Peter Doig and George Shaw. One recent painting, commissioned for the Arts Council Collection, presents a series of barbershop portraits hovering over a small shelf-bound Manhattan of hair products. Many of the portraits are like photographic negatives, white on black. Only Malcolm X and Martin Luther King appear in full focus and full colour. Is it OK to be Black?, the title asks. But again, I kept thinking of other painters, and in particular of Luc Tuymans.
Andrea Büttner and Rosalind Nashashibi’s shows are the best in this year’s prize. Büttner’s show is complicated, not least by a large display, called Simone Weil: The Most Dangerous Disease, borrowed from the Peace Library and Anti War Museum of the Evangelical Church of Berlin, which frequently lends it out. Mixing texts by the French thinker and activist Simone Weil, and large numbers of photographs, including harrowing Vietnam war images, American landscapes by Ansel Adams, August Sander’s portraits of national socialists, and much besides, the display is intended as an introduction to Weil’s times and thoughts.
There’s a lot to read and look at before we even get to Büttner’s large woodcuts – a bare black silhouette of a hill, jaunty potatoes floating in a field of colour, a number of simplified images of a beggar, a body humped over, arms extended in supplication. An entire wall is covered in hi-vis yellow fabric, on which hangs a number of large-scale etchings derived from the fingerprints and smears on her smartphone screen. As well as erudition and gravity, there is a kind of musicality to Büttner’s exhibition. I don’t know what all this adds up to, or where Büttner’s identification with the ascetic, socialist, religious Weil is meant to take us.
In her new film, Vivian’s Garden, Rosalind Nashashibi gives us a portrait of the relationship between a mother and daughter, Vivian Suter and Elisabeth Wild, in their rambling, ramshackle home and overgrown, snake-infested garden in Guatemala. We glimpse the daily comings and goings, their staff and numerous dogs, life behind a hefty gated entrance. Suter drags large canvases through the foliage. Her mother, in her wheelchair, glues together a collage by lamplight. The film is full of fractured glimpses, incomplete conversations, talk of departure and some violence in the past. Things hover that we can’t grasp. Nashashibi’s films are often extremely beautiful to look at, their slowness never a burden. For Vivian’s Garden alone, Nashashibi deserves to win.
A second film, shot in Gaza in 2014, slides down alleys, cruises the streets in a car, watches a Hamas march and witnesses the queues and anxieties at the border crossing into Egypt. Sometimes the scene – young men talking and singing in a room, a view over the city, the awful architecture at the border – flips into animation. Towards the end of these weary scenes from ordinary, but extraordinarily difficult everyday life, a black dot grows to almost fill the screen, a strange and startling irruption.
• The Turner Prize is at the Ferens Gallery, Hull, until 7 January.
!!!@@@$$$

Rock group Deep Purple’s former accountant has been banned as a company director for misappropriating at least £2m from two entities controlling their catalogue of hits.
Dipak Rao, who worked for the band behind the hit Smoke on the Water between 1992 and 2014, has been disqualified for 11 years following an investigation by the Insolvency Service. It found he siphoned money into his personal accounts from two companies, Deep Purple (Overseas) Ltd and HEC Enterprises Ltd, between 2008 and 2014.
The 69-year-old, who lives in Worcester Park, south-west London, concealed what he had done by ensuring that the transactions did not appear in financial accounts and restricted access to the companies’ bank statements, the Insolvency Service said. He resigned in November 2014 as a director of both firms – which control the copyrights of many of the band’s recordings – before they went into administration in January last year.
Sue Macleod, the Insolvency Service’s chief investigator, said: “Rao misappropriated company funds, causing detriment to the company and its creditors, to his own personal benefit.”
The Times reported in January that lead singer, Ian Gillan, 72, the bassist, Roger Glover, 71, and Ian Paice, 69, the drummer, as well as the estate of Jon Lord, the keyboard player who died in 2012, sued Rao in the high court over his management of their financial affairs. The case, which is believed to be ongoing, is separate to the Insolvency Service investigation.
The newspaper said the high court granted a £4m freezing order against the assets of Rao and his wife, Anvita. It said Rao admitted “borrowing” or “lending” at least £2.27m of the companies’ money, and that the Deep Purple companies had recovered about £477,000 so far.
Formed in 1968, Deep Purple became one of the world’s biggest rock bands, filling stadiums around the world. The group split in 1976 amid drug addiction and exhaustion, before reforming in 1984.
The band become the latest music stars to be caught in a tussle over money. Leonard Cohen sued his former manager Kelley Lynch in 2005, claiming she had stolen $5m (£3.7m) from his personal accounts. The court found in his favour and ordered Lynch to pay him $9.5m. The Rolling Stones sued their former manager, Allen Klein, in a long-running legal dispute that was eventually settled out of court.
After releasing their 20th album, InFinite, in April, Deep Purple are on the road with their The Long Goodbye tour.
• This article was amended on 26 September 2017. The picture caption on an earlier version said Deep Purple’s singer Ian Gillan was in the photograph. This has been corrected to say Roger Glover, the band’s bassist.
!!!@@@$$$

My friend and colleague Ian Williams, who had died of cancer aged 67, was a miner in east Kent. He was born into the industry: his grandfather was one of the many who walked from South Wales to find work in the county’s new fields during the 1920s. When coalmining ended, Ian had a vision for a new arts centre in the old buildings – it is a vision some are hoping will one day become a reality.
Ian was born in Aylesham, one of three sons, to Edward, an electrical engineer for the National Coal Board, and his wife, Mary (nee Thomson). Ian went to school in the village and then on to secondary education in Hersden. He did his electrical engineering apprenticeship training at Canterbury College and at Chislet colliery.
There were four productive mines in Kent: Chislet, Tilmanstone, Betteshanger and Snowdown. Ian worked at all of them except Snowdown, although he lived in the village. He was underground electrical shift engineer at Betteshanger, and in the mines rescue team at Tilmanstone and Betteshanger. Ian remarked that no matter what relations were like above ground, underground anyone’s life could depend on anyone else, and enmities were insignificant.
The strike of 1984-85 was hard. Ian’s wife, Val, went to work at the local pub and Ian looked after their children, David and Kelly. The Kent miners held out longest in the strike but the collieries were all closed by 1989.
Ian was passionate about promoting youth cycling with Velo Club Deal, where David was a star performer. When the cycle course made at Betteshanger as part of the regeneration was found to be flawed – spoil washed across the track in heavy rain, and ploughed-in metal exposed – he commissioned a report that led to remedial work.
After the pit closures, Dover council and the South East England Development Agency drew up plans to flatten the Snowdown site for a business park, but with it would have gone the last built fabric of the Kent coalfield. Ian had the visionary idea of using the buildings to make what he called “another Aldeburgh”. He found me online, through my work for the Industrial Buildings Preservation Trust, and that is how we met. He said it was a beautiful site, but it was not until I visited that I really believed him.
He envisaged a cultural site that would bring people from not just the local area but across the country (via the tiny station at Snowdown) and even from Europe, it being on the doorstep of the Channel tunnel. When a development agency representative said that most working-class people were not interested in opera, Ian was outraged. We celebrated when the agency was abolished.
However, in the end we were unable to secure ownership of the site. With two buildings there now listed, I still hope we may one day see the opening of the Ian Williams Hall. The man and the industry deserve a memorial.
He is survived by Val, their children and four grandchildren.
!!!@@@$$$

In the 17th century, William Prynne’s cheeks were branded with the letters SL, standing for “seditious libeler” after he published pamphlets critical of Anglican clergymen. Such punishments are long gone in the UK and US, but as this year’s Banned Books Week gets under way, the chief executive of Index on Censorship has warned that the “anger of the mob” online has spawned a new, modern kind of censorship – particularly when it comes to young readers.
“There is a really worrying trend of popular pressure forcing children’s books off shelves,” said Jodie Ginsberg of the campaign group, which is part of a coalition of UK organisations staging events, panels and discussions to mark the annual celebration of the right to read.
Last year in the US, Scholastic pulled the picture book A Birthday Cake for George Washington from publication following criticism of its upbeat depiction slaves’ lives, while the author of the picture book A Fine Dessert was forced to apologise for its depiction of slave characters. Ginsberg also pointed to the UK tabloid press campaign in 1986 against a book about a child with two fathers, Jenny Lives With Eric and Martin.
“It’s particularly true in the US. It’s not as prevalent in the UK but it’s not unheard of,” said Ginsberg. “We aren’t branding cheeks for seditious libel; we no longer have a censor in chief. But we have a different kind of censorship … that allows the anger of the mob to force both publishers and authors to censor themselves out of fear.
“In 2017, we can read what we like but there is a different kind of censorship in operation, not coming from the state but from an outraged public. We really need to be aware and wary of it and we’re not, sufficiently.”
Ginsberg was clear that censorship isn’t something that happens far away. “It has happened in the UK. In every library, there are books that British citizens have been blocked from reading at various times. As citizens and literature lovers we must be constantly vigilant to guard against the erosion of our freedom to read.”
UK events this week include a discussion with Melvyn Bragg and members of the Salman Rushdie Campaign Group on The Satanic Verses controversy at the British Library, as well as David Aaronovitch, Irish author Claire Hennessy and publisher Lynn Gaspard exploring modern-day censorship at the Free Word Centre in London, as well as events and promotions in public libraries.
Almost all of the challenged books are flagged because of sexual content... the only exception is Bill Cosby
Organisers are keen to make the week a major part of the UK literary calendar. It was launched in the US in 1982, to mark what the American Library Association (ALA) said was a sudden surge in attempts to have books removed or restricted in schools, bookshops and libraries. Since then, more than 11,300 books have been “challenged”, with last year’s most controversial title the award-winning graphic novel This One Summer by Mariko and Jillian Tamaki – “because it includes LGBT characters, drug use and profanity, and it was considered sexually explicit with mature themes,” said the ALA.
Almost all of the books on its annual list of challenged books are picture books and young adult novels, flagged because of sexual content, transgender characters or gay relationships. The only exception on this year’s list, the Little Bill series, was challenged because of the high-profile sexual harassment claims against their author, comedian Bill Cosby.
“We live in a society where the individual is far more empowered, but that brings other challenges. Once the mob gets going, it is very easy to silence authors, or to get publishers to pull books from publication. And that raises questions about the books that are getting out: who is writing them? And who is being approved to write them?” said Ginsberg.
Theyoung adult novelist Hennessy pointed to a recent Vulture piece about the “toxic” online community around young adult books, where novels are being “targeted in intense social-media callouts, draggings, and pile-ons – sometimes before anybody’s even read them”.
The piece’s author, Kat Rosenfield writes: “In recent months, the community was bubbling with a dozen different controversies of varying reach – over Nicola Yoon’s Everything Everything (for ableism), Stephanie Elliot’s Sad Perfect (for being potentially triggering to ED survivors), A Court of Wings and Ruin by Sarah J Maas (for heterocentrism), The Traitor’s Kiss by Erin Beaty (for misusing the story of Mulan), and All the Crooked Saints by Maggie Stiefvater (in a peculiar example of publishing pre-crime, people had decided that Stiefvater’s book was racist before she’d even finished the manuscript),”
Hennessy said there was a worrying trend for YA authors to be required to have personal experience of the issues they write about. “The idea of authenticity is a preoccupation for reviewers and bloggers and it is very frustrating – I disagree with it completely,” she said. “It’s a very dangerous path to go down … It’s a strange bubble. On one hand there’s the feeling that it’s just on Twitter and Goodreads, but then these are the places where the writers are, and where the people in publishing are, so it is a bubble full of relevant people.”
“Twenty years ago,” Ginsberg added, “it required a lot of effort to campaign against something. Now you can create that outrage and pressure almost instantaneously. And publishers respond to that very quick outrage on social media. It’s really vital for publishers who have invested in their books and believe in their value to defend them even when the madness of the mob descends. What worries me is that publishers do sometimes cave in, when they should be part of the frontline [defending] free expression.”
1. This One Summer by Mariko Tamaki and illustrated by Jillian TamakiReasons: Challenged over LGBT characters, drug use and profanity. It was also considered sexually explicit, with mature themes.
2. Drama, written and illustrated by Raina TelgemeierReasons: Challenged because it includes LGBT characters, was deemed sexually explicit and considered to have an offensive political viewpoint.
3. George by Alex GinoReasons: Challenged because it includes a transgender child, and the “sexuality was not appropriate at elementary levels”.
4. I Am Jazz written by Jessica Herthel and Jazz Jennings, and illustrated by Shelagh McNicholasReasons: Challenged because it portrays a transgender child and because of language, sex education, and “offensive viewpoints”.
5. Two Boys Kissing by David LevithanReasons: Challenged because its cover has an image of two boys kissing, and it was considered to include sexually explicit content.
6. Looking for Alaska by John GreenReasons: Challenged for a sexually explicit scene that might lead a student to “sexual experimentation”.
7. Big Hard Sex Criminals by Matt Fraction, illustrated by Chip ZdarskyReason: Challenged because it was considered sexually explicit.
8. Make Something Up: Stories You Can’t Unread by Chuck PalahniukReasons: Challenged for profanity, sexual explicitness and being “disgusting and all-around offensive”.
9. The Little Bill series by Bill Cosby and illustrated by Varnette P HoneywoodReason: Challenged because of criminal sexual allegations against the author.
10. Eleanor and Park by Rainbow RowellReason: Challenged for offensive language.
!!!@@@$$$

Things we forgot we already knew: the postcard industry is dying. The country’s oldest postcard publishers J Salmon has been churning small coloured squares of card out of its factory in Kent for more than 100 years. Until now. The fifth-generation brothers who still run the company have sent a letter to their clients, advising them that the presses will cease printing at the end of the year, and they will sell off their remaining stock throughout 2018.
It’s a sad demise for a company that brought us some iconic images of our country. The firm’s story began in 1880, when the original J Salmon acquired a printing business on Sevenoaks high street, and produced a collection of twelve black and white scenes of the town. In 1912, the business broke through into the big time by commissioning the artist AR Quinton, who produced 2,300 scenes of British life for them, up until his death in 1934. From Redruth to King’s Lynn, his softly coloured, highly detailed watercolours of rosy milkmaids, bucolic pumphouses and picturesque harbour towns earned him a place in the hearts of the public. J Salmon did photographs, it did cheery oils of seaside imagery titled with a garrulous enthusiasm: “Eat More Chips!”, “Sun, Sand & Sea”, “We’re Going Camping!”. It commissioned the comic artist Reg Maurice (who often worked under the pseudonym Vera Paterson), to produce pictures of comically bulbous children with cutesy captions, alongside the usual stock images of British towns.
It was this century’s changing habits – and technology – that did for them. “People are going for shorter breaks, not for a fortnight, so you’re back home before your postcards have arrived,” co-managing director Charles Salmon noted. He barely needed to say that Instagram and Facebook had made their product all but redundant, almost wiping out the entire industry in a decade.
Rodney Villiers is managing director of The Postcard Company. Based in Omagh, the firm physically prints the images that postcard publishers send them. Only, not so much any more. “We’ve lost about 90% of our customers. It’s a dying business, on its uppers,” he says. Villiers dates the decline to “around 2007” – the year social media bit hard. The Postcard Company has managed to hang on by diversifying its business into art printing. “We survive on postcards we print for art galleries and the like.” The kings of the saucy seaside postcard, Bamforth & Co, ceased to be in 2001.
“When I heard the news, I was actually surprised they still existed,” says Michelle Abadie, co-director of the John Hinde Collection. John Hinde was once J Salmon’s biggest rival; it sold 50-60 million postcards a year at its peak in the 1960s, but it, too, shuttered about four years ago. The licensing for its rich archive of images was sold off, and repurposed in art books.
This may be the fate of J Salmon. Because, in one sense, the death of the postcard is overstated. Like vinyl records, our fetish for the physical objects we left behind is already making its presence felt. “If you go into Waterstones now, they sell lots of postcards of book covers,” Abadie points out. “The idea itself isn’t dead – as a decorative object, people still want them.”
!!!@@@$$$

It’s over a decade since Sally Beamish had the idea of composing a passion. What she has now produced, with a libretto by David Harsent – as a joint commission between the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment and its US counterpart, the Philharmonia Baroque of San Francisco – is in many respects a version of the traditional passion story, but with one significant difference. For this is The Judas Passion, the story of Christ’s crucifixion as seen from the perspective of the man who betrayed him.
Harsent’s take on the passion story, interweaving details from the apocryphal gospels as well as the biblical ones, examines the role of Judas and explores whether his betrayal of Christ was a necessary part of the plan. Without it there would have been no crucifixion, no sacrifice to redeem mankind. Just as in his librettos for Harrison Birtwistle’s operas Gawain and The Minotaur, Harsent has retold an ancient story, finding in it new perspectives and ambiguities. In his Judas Passion, God and the devil are two sides of the same coin, always singing in rhythmic unison, just as the fates of Jesus and Judas are twinned and inextricable.
Judas is given a couple of passages of self-justification and self-loathing, but Jesus remains elusive in this retelling. And, though there is no hint of pastiche, the example of Bach’s passions permeate Beamish’s score, not just in her use of a period-instrument orchestra – only the percussion, including a specially invented “Judas chime” to signify the 30 pieces of silver, is a deliberate anachronism – but also in the use of baroque musical forms (aria, fugue, chorale, chaconne) within the transparent textures.
It’s all perhaps closer to opera than to oratorio, and this premiere, with the OAE’s finely detailed playing shaped by Nicholas McGegan, was economically and unfussily staged by Peter Thomson. The three soloists – tenor Brendan Gunnell as Judas, baritone James Newby as Christ, and soprano Mary Bevan as Mary Magdalene, who is more narrator than protagonist – and the all-male chorus of 11, who also take all the subsidiary roles, created a timeless and in many ways non-specific drama.
If the vocal writing occasionally recalls Britten’s church parables or John Adams’s opera-oratorios, the best of Beamish’s music is instrumental – minatory brass interjections, delicate tracery from the lute and harpsichord, intimate intertwinings from the pair of flutes. But those moments, like the most haunting of Harsent’s lines, are just a bit too unspecific. They keep their distance from the subject, intellectually and emotionally.
• At St John’s Smith Square, London, 25 September. Box office: 020-7222 1061.
!!!@@@$$$

This year’s Turner prize makes a powerful political statement with a shortlist of artists who champion the diversity of the British art scene, the director of Tate Britain has said.
Alex Farquharson, the chair of the Turner prize judging panel, said that the diverse, cross-cultural shortlist, “the most international to date”, sends an important and timely message during a period of increasing hostility towards immigrants.
He made the comments at the opening of the Turner prize exhibition at Ferens art gallery in Hull on Monday.
This year’s shortlisted artists – Lubaina Himid, Hurvin Anderson, Andrea Büttner and Rosalind Nashashibi – have all taken on political issues in the works that feature in the exhibition. It follows accusations in 2016 that the prize was failing to engage with the current climate, with the work of last year’s winner, Helen Marten, seen as apolitical.
Farquharson said: “It’s certainly an embrace of multiculturalism and I think in that sense it’s reflective of British art and society. The jurists are particularly interested in the transnational, the cross-cultural this year.”
The works of Himid, who was born in Zanzibar, and Anderson, whose parents are Jamaican, both addressed the issue of black representation in art and media. An age limit of 50 was dropped for the prize this year, meaning that at 63 Himid is the oldest artist to be nominated.
Her works selected for the Turner exhibition reflect her contribution to art, and particularly the representation of black women in art, since the 1980s.
Her best-known work, A Fashionable Marriage – a sculpture made from wood cut-outs and featuring figures such as Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan – was made in 1986. It is featured in the exhibition and its messages about race and polarisation still feel very timely, Farquharson said.
Anderson’s work in the exhibition dwells on his Jamaican heritage and features his paintings of barber shops, which celebrate their role in Afro-Caribbean communities. Also in the show is his work Is It OK to Be Black?, inspired by the wall displays inside of a barber shops, which features Martin Luther King and Malcolm X.
“I would say that that black representation and artistic expression is a huge aspect of art today, both in the UK and internationally,” Farquharson said. He said the removal of the age limit had meant the prize could have a role in championing older artists, who were often female, black or Asian and whose contribution was just beginning to be recognised properly.
“In the art world right now there is an increased interest in, and understanding of, the contribution of black British artists in the 80s,” he said. “They were important in their own day, but it was a struggle and it has not recognised as a key aspect of the story of art at that time. Yet increasingly there is widespread acceptance that the 80s black art movement ushered in a lot of what we see today.”
Other political issues that feature in this year’s show include the conflict in Gaza, which is the focal point of one of Nashashibi’s films, while Andrea Büttner addresses the rise of fascism in the 1940s through the words of the French philosopher Simone Weil.
Farquharson said of the prize: “It can now play a different role and it is already doing so in this exhibition. It reflects a wider interest in the contemporary art world right now in marginalised background practices, often by women, often by black and Asian artists, and the bringing of that work to the fore. It’s too early to tell whether this will be the character of the Turner prize going forward, but it’s certainly an option for future jurors.”
The new rules were also a nod to the fact that the generational divide, particularly apparent in modern art in the 1990s when the Turner prize gained notoriety with the YBA artists, was no longer so apparent.
“Perhaps a few years ago we were in that avant-garde narrative of one generation breaking the rules of a previous generation, but I don’t think that’s where we’re at any more,” said Farquharson. “There is a recognition that these newest developments are often from the hands of artists of an older generation.”
It is the fifth year the Turner prize has been exhibited outside of London. The winner of the £25,000 prize will be announced at a ceremony on 5 December, broadcast live on the BBC.
!!!@@@$$$

The buzz around Australian standup Nick Coyle’s latest offering Queen of Wolves suggested a show that not only tickles the funny bone but chills the marrow. It finds Coyle cross-dressing as Victorian governess Frances Glass. Prim, poor and desperate, she arrives at Blackbell House – out on the windy moors – only to find that her intended infant charges have died in mysterious circumstances. What follows is the story of Frances’s bid to stay alone in the haunted house for six weeks, preparing it for sale.
I may not be the best person to judge how spine-tingling the show is, given that, at the slightest suggestion of scary, I’m an instant bag of nerves. I’m the kind of comedygoer who watched this summer’s horror-comedy hit, Rob Kemp’s The Elvis Dead, through the gaps between his fingers – the OTT goriness of its source movie, Evil Dead II, being too much for my delicate constitution. So it’s far from definitive when I say that, yes, Queen of Wolves gave me the heebie-jeebies – albeit mildly. One review called it as scary as West End frightener The Woman in Black, which is way over the top. The Woman in Black petrified me; Coyle’s show raised a few goosebumps.
But that’s fine; we’re not comparing like with like. As a comedian, Coyle’s responsibility is to make us laugh – and he joins an illustrious line of comics who’ve used horror tropes to do so. The League of Gentlemen are an obvious reference point. Reece Shearsmith and Steve Pemberton’s Inside No 9 may be the standout creepy comedy of our current moment. Jeremy Dyson’s West End hit Ghost Stories tilted the balance more towards screams than laughs, but only slightly. Dyson’s co-creator Andy Nyman keeps both chills and laughter in play as director of Derren Brown’s stage work.
Nyman and Dyson developed a philosophy of spooky comedy – they call it “scun”, from scary and fun – on which Coyle, for all I know, may be drawing. But there are plenty of acts who focus exclusively on spoofing horror rather than recreating its effects – of which Garth Marenghi’s Netherhead, the 2001 Perrier award-winner that launched Richard Ayoade and Alice Lowe on to an unsuspecting world, may be the standout example.
Coyle’s show is in the former camp: it takes the mickey, yes, but it wants to take your breath away, too. And it doesn’t need to stint on one to pull off the other. Yes, it’s undermining genre convention from the off, as Frances plays chicken with the spooky thunderclaps on the soundtrack. But that irreverence coexists quite easily with the show’s more sinister effects. Haunting strings and crepuscular sounds underscore most scenes, even if you register their unsettling impact only when a sudden blackout propels you six inches out of your seat. Coyle can joke as much as he likes about the cheap special effects (“Stop! Stop pulling that string!”) but when the furniture in Blackbell House starts moving of its own accord, it feels uncanny all the same.
Of course, there’s probably a limit to how scary comedy can be. Real, gut-churning terror doesn’t have much to do with laughter. But further down the scale, being spooked and being amused can start to resemble one another. They’re both about feeling unstable, uncertain of the ground you’re standing on. They’re both about bracing yourself, consciously or otherwise, for an imminent surprise – a punchline, a severed head, a custard pie in the face, a corpse sitting bolt upright. (“A laugh is the same as a scream. It’s an outpouring of something,” as Pemberton said of Inside No 9 earlier this year.) Both comedy and horror operate on a cycle of tension generated then defused.
Watching Queen of Wolves, I kept scanning the stage, trying to anticipate and fortify myself against the next shock. That’s not such a dissimilar process to trying to second-guess a comedian – where the joke is coming from, where it’s heading. Finally, the best of Coyle’s show, for me, is the pastiche of buttoned-up Victorian womanhood. Frances’s dumbshow of revulsion is a sight to behold when the very idea of murder is mooted; and the ditty she trills when spring-cleaning Blackbell House (“O, the rabbit and the lark!”) is, given the circumstances, hilariously innocent. But the gasps are as much a part of the experience as the laughs, and they feed off one another, like a hungry demon off his virgin bride.
!!!@@@$$$

David Attenborough vividly remembers, nearly 80 years on, his first encounter with one of the worst scourges of the planet. He was a schoolboy. “I remember my headmaster, who was also my science master, saying: ‘Boys, we’ve entered a new era! We’ve entered, we’ll be proud to say, the plastic era. And what is so wonderful about this is we’ve used all our scientific ingenuity to make sure that it’s virtually indestructible. It doesn’t decay, you know, it’s wonderful.’”
Attenborough lets the last word hang in the air, eyebrows and hands raised. Then the hands fall. “Now we dump thousands of tonnes of it, every year, into the sea, and it has catastrophic effects.”
Pieces of plastic in the ocean will soon outnumber fish. They have, in the past few years, been recognised as one of the most pressing problems we face. Fish eat the plastic debris, mistaking it for food, and can choke or starve to death. The long-term effects are not yet understood, but we do know that plastic microparticles are now found in drinking water across the world, as well as throughout our oceans.
Plastics are the latest in a long line of concerns for the 91-year-old naturalist. They are a key theme of his latest work for television, the new series of The Blue Planet, which he will return to writing after our interview. Premiering at the BFI Imax in London this Wednesday – with Prince William as a special guest – the series will focus not only on the marvels of ocean life, but the threats to it, of which plastic is one of the worst. It will also deal with what people can do to help.
The arc by which plastics started off as a wonder of technology and ended up as a calamity is familiar to the veteran conservationist. It seems to be repeated endlessly: CFC aerosols and refrigerants destroying the ozone layer; pesticides killing wildlife; the fossil energies that fuelled a career based around television and exotic international travel resulting in climate change; the advances in medicine prolonging life and bringing good health, but giving us a population explosion that Attenborough fears will endanger further species, including our own.
For Attenborough, however, there must always be a message of optimism running above and beyond any warnings of doom. While he admits to sadness at the disappearances he has witnessed – “Overall, without any question, the world is not going to be as varied and as rich as it was a hundred years ago” – he insists on practical solutions. “It’s within our power, because most of the problems are created by us, and we can solve them or should be able to solve them,” he says, slapping his knee emphatically. “There are solutions, and there is cause for hope, and there’s cause for encouragement, and it isn’t all disasters.”
Take plastics. That problem could be solved “if we got together, within a decade, if not less”. It could be dealt with technically, through potential breakthroughs such as degradable plastic. “And disposing of it could be dealt with technically,” he adds. This could involve ways to collect and filter plastics from the sea, and to absorb or break down the plastics that are already there. And “stop putting plastic in the sea”.
A career spanning seven decades has earned him a loyal following of tens if not hundreds of millions of viewers, who are entranced by his delight in the beauties and savageries he witnesses. It has also given him a unique authority. When Attenborough speaks, viewers tend to trust him.
For years, he kept this trust to himself. He was associated with several conservation groups, from Flora and Fauna International to the Dragonfly Society, but did not use his public platform to make prescriptions for the planet’s future. For this, he was sometimes criticised by green activists, who wanted him to take a public lead on issues such as climate change.
It is evidently a criticism he feels a need to address, and, without prompting, he offers that in his earlier career he felt inhibited by his association with the BBC, where he was a channel controller as well as presenter, and the need to be strictly impartial. “I joined the BBC after [national service in] the navy, and there was a monopoly and it was like a civil service. So you had to be guarding against propaganda or guarding against grinding axes. And so the moment had to be judged as to when it was you suddenly started talking about conservation and when it was that you were behind the Greenpeaces of this world. They were the cutting edge and you, as a broadcaster, had to make sure that both sides of the argument were ventilated until such time as you, in your professional capacity, thought it was absolutely justified to say: ‘This is incontrovertible, this is what we’re doing to the natural world.’”
As he has felt more free to speak out, one of the more controversial areas Attenborough has addressed is population growth. Of all the world’s problems, this is the one he sees as central and most difficult to solve, although it is a tricky and unpopular cause to take up. Many high-profile environmentalists will privately agree that the rapid growth in the world’s population – now at more than 7 billion, a tripling since Attenborough was born – creates further problems, because feeding 9 billion by 2050 will be hard, and raising people out of poverty even harder, and it makes a real conundrum of giving people decent lives, opportunities and governance, while protecting dwindling natural resources and halting climate change. For a start, it sounds offensive, even patronising – particularly coming from anyone who lives a relatively privileged life in a developed country. For another, it crosses religious and other taboos. And – for many the clincher – it can look like blaming the more numerous poor of the developing world for problems emphatically not of their making.
Attenborough chooses his words slowly. “I sometimes question whether I should be more positive or more outgoing on the question. The trouble is that we don’t know the answer. What we all say is that if women are given political freedom and education and medical facilities and all the rest of it, the birth rate falls. That’s actually not the whole question. It’s more complicated than that. But it’s all I can say in response. One should be very cautious about imposing, from where I sit, regulations where other people have got the problems.”
But he will draw the links between population growth and ecological destruction. “The whole question of migration out of Africa across the Mediterranean has multiple causes and part of it is the political systems, but part of it is undoubtedly ecological systems and sociological problems. I mean the changing of the climate in Africa, the spread of the desert in Africa, the rise of political systems which oppress – all those things mount up. That’s why conservation is not any more just the affair of ecologists.”
Viewing conservation as part of the whole future of humanity, rather than a thing apart, is one of Attenborough’s great legacies. He is spearheading an effort at Cambridge University to bring all academic disciplines – “not just other botanists, not just ecologists, but law, international lawyers, psychologists, geographers, political scientists and so on” – to bear on the pressing problems of the planet. “Break down those walls and get people talking about it who wouldn’t otherwise meet,” he says.
The Cambridge Conservation Initiative is a collaboration among 10 institutions, housed in the new Sir David Attenborough building in Cambridge. Its future has just been assured by a $10m (£7.4m) endowment from Arcadia, the charitable fund of Lisbet Rausing, one of the heirs to the Tetra Pak fortune, and her husband, Peter Baldwin. It will work across all conservation and environmental issues, and its ethos mirrors Attenborough’s own polymathic approach: the idea is that people will congregate in the building, from all over the world as well as across disciplines, for the cross-fertilisation of knowledge.
Attenborough spent two years at Clare College, Cambridge, from 1945, taking a degree truncated by the war. “It was two years of unalloyed bliss,” he says. “It’s a sudden great opening of windows, if you’re a provincial grammar school boy like me. And you were with these people who had been fighter pilots and so on and you realised that the sun had come out over Europe and over you. You were just looking through intellectual windows and singing, yes, madrigals – never heard of madrigals before. Gosh, how marvellous.”
It was here, while ostensibly studying X-ray crystallography (“it was ghastly – I couldn’t understand a bar of it”) that he embarked on turning his interest in nature into the beginnings of a career. “A guest lecturer came in and talked for an hour about frogs. And all the extraordinary varieties, the beauties of frogs, how the frog’s life was dominated by how on earth they were going to rear their young, who needed water. Some did it by spinning foam and hanging it above a pond. Some by taking their eggs into their mouths. Some even did it by putting eggs in their stomachs – extraordinary. And so you sat there with your jaw slacking, just the amazement and splendours and wonders of the world.”
Keeping that sense of wonder will be what keeps us alive, he believes, if we do choose to save the planet. “If you want a comfortable life, what you do is you turn your mind, your face away from problems, of course.” He sees his responsibility as reminding people that they can and must turn towards the problems, and find solutions – in day-to-day life and in collective efforts. To do that, he believes, the most important thing is to remind people of what they have forgotten, and what is sometimes hard to remember – why we are in love with the world we live in.
“People say to me, ‘How did you first become interested in animals?’, and I look at them and I say: ‘Was there a time when you were not interested in animals?’ It’s the first sort of pleasure, delight and joy you get as a child. As a child grows, he becomes aware of all sorts of things, sex or computers and the internet and so on. But if he loses the first treasure, he’s lost something that will give him joy and delight for the rest of his life.”
!!!@@@$$$

Welcome to this week’s blog, and our roundup of your comments and photos from last week.
A good book can hit you hard – Tom Mooney says that Elizabeth Strout’s Olive Kitteridge has left him “stricken”:
It has placed the huge weight of life on my shoulders, of what is left to face, of everything that can and will go wrong, the complications of family and parenthood. Jesus, I need a lie down.
Anyway, what a superb book. Exquisitely written, full of real, believable characters, funny and desperately sad. I wouldn’t have picked this up if my wife hadn’t shoved it at me, probably because it sounds and looks a little feminine, but I’m so glad she did because I have discovered another new author.
On the subject of books that might easily have been missed, vermontlogger feels lucky to have picked up Einstein: His Life And Universe by Walter Isaacson:
I knew nothing about it until I chanced on it at a book sale and started dipping in. Apparently it was a number one bestseller, and you can see why. The writing is magnificently fluent and attractive. Some of the passages dealing with the great man’s early life do seem a bit dutiful but the author really lets his excitement show when he gets into explaining the papers on the Special and General Theories. He takes you step by step through the process that allowed Einstein to arrive at his “head-snapping” insights (all by deduction from newly postulated first principles and none by induction from the experimental data) in such a clear way that even a non-scientist like me can hold it in his brain for a fleeting second. One cosmological implication Einstein drew was that three-dimensional space can curve back on itself to create a system that is simultaneously finite and unbounded. How cool is that!
Similarly, TheLittlestRascal missed The Blade Itself first time around:
For some reason, couldn’t get past the first hundred of pages a few years back, but figured it deserved one more chance.
This brick of a book sets the scene for the following novels of the trilogy and introduces most of the key players, which include barbarians, noblemen, inquisitors, and magi. And by the time I finished the chapter aptly titled “A Road Between Two Dentists” I had already developed some strong feelings for the inquisitor. Well, of course I just had to.
It feels like our postmodern world deserves its own postmodern fantasy, and The Blade Itself seems to be one of those: lots of allusions to Discworld and pop-culture references to be picked up along the way. A fight of two rugged barbarians reminds of some classic spaghetti western, and preparation for a fencing contest resembles the best bits of Rocky. Not sure how much of that was intended, but it definitely felt good to stumble upon.
Revisiting a book has also been profitable for Glozboy:
I’m currently re-reading Stephen King’s It, 16 years after I first read it as a teenager. I remembered it being consistently scary and some of the scenes have never left me.
So far I’m 400 pages in and it hasn’t let up. An absolute masterpiece.
This is one of those books that I never want to see the film/TV series of as it would destroy my mental image, The Stand being another one.
Zola’s Germinal has also been worth rereading for paulburns:
This is the novel, way back, that had me fall in love with Zola, and I have to say it still doesn’t disappoint. This brutal tale of life on the northern French coalfields in the 1860s during a long strike is stunning. From Zola’s depiction of the everyday life of coalminers, the clash between Capital and Labour, Socialism and Anarchism at the time of the First International, and Zola’s great narrative of the course of the destructive strike, this is a sweeping portrait of some of the worst of 19th Century industrial life. Undoubtedly it is one of the greatest Victorian novels.
Finally, it’s almost Halloween, isn’t it? Let’s get in the mood with elliese:
I so love Victorian (and older) ghost stories. The best ones are exquisitely crafted, and you hover between admiration of the writer’s sheer skill and the pure terror of the tale itself. The only stumbling-block is the occasional story that hinges on the protagonist acting in a manner that’s frankly incomprehensible to modern sensibilities; poor Aubrey in Polidori’s The Vampyre is such a relentlessly moronic goop it’s hard to feel very sorry for him, and so is Ernest in The Bride of Lindorf. (What a plonker.) But I really loved most of the other stories in the Oxford University Press anthology The Vampyre and other Tales of the Macabre. It was fascinating to see the themes and anxieties of live burial and grave robbing come out in the stories again and again. Alan Cunningham’s The Master of Logan had an atmosphere and themes that reminded me of Stevenson, and Catherine Gore’s The Red Man was terrifying.
If you would like to share a photo of the book you are reading, or film your own book review, please do. Click the blue button on this page to share your video or image. I’ll include some of your posts in next week’s blog.
If you’re on Instagram and a book lover, chances are you’re already sharing beautiful pictures of books you are reading: “shelfies” or all kinds of still lifes with books as protagonists. Now, you can share your reads with us on the mobile photography platform – simply tag your pictures there with #GuardianBooks, and we’ll include a selection here. Happy reading!
!!!@@@$$$

A French philosopher, who made headlines worldwide last week after writing that he believed the boy detective Tintin was actually a girl, has said that it was a thought experiment and that the media ran it despite being told it was fake news.
“For his creator, Tintin [had] always been a young girl. An androgynous redhead with blue eyes, and probably asexual,” wrote Vincent Cespedes on Facebook last week. “Hergé would still be sniggering to find that 30 years after his death and 80 years after the first appearance of Tintin in the Land of the Soviets, the whole world still believed that his ‘tomboy’ – as he called the character in front of the few friends who were in on the joke – is well and truly a real boy.”
In the post, Cespedes cited various reasons for his belief, including Tintin being the only one to wear a kilt in Scotland in The Black Island, and his dressing a group of soldiers up as women in Tintin and the Picaros. The detective, according to Cespedes, has traits that would then have been seen as typically feminine: in The Crab With the Golden Claws, when Tintin meets a drunk Captain Haddock, he – or she – says: “You must help me. And first you must promise me to stop drinking. Think of your dignity, captain. What would your old mother say if she saw you in this state?” This “tenderness and the tears – such is the definition of femininity for Hergé”, wrote Cespedes, also citing the character’s “benevolence and unwavering sweetness”.
Despite intending his essay to be a comment on the interpretation of art, and topping it with an image labelled “Fake News”, the story was widely reported. When asked for an interview by Québec’s branch of the Huffington Post, Cespedes said that it was intended only as a philosophical conversation starter, but they ran the story regardless – and it was later picked up by UK media, including the Times and the Independent. “They prefer to spread it as if, ‘this philosopher is crazy, what the fuck?’ and not mention fake news,” Cespedes told the Guardian.
“What I have learned is that the real media needs fake news to grow. The media needs fake news. Post-truth, journalists need false journalism to grow in this new world I call cyber-modernity … All is plural. You don’t know if it is true or false – it is in the middle,” he said.
In the days after his post, he had spoken to journalists everywhere from India to Ireland, he said. “[Journalists] want my theory because it spreads their news all around the world, France, Belgium, etc. It’s very interesting to understand what game the media’s playing now, in cyber-modernity. They play a very, very, very dangerous game. They want ‘What the fuck?’ first. They need fake news to spread their news.”
Cespedes said his claim was never written to be taken up by journalists, but was instead a point to be considered by his readers, adding: “It is not my aim. I don’t want to be famous [for] this theory. I’ve got 15 books and I really don’t want to be known like that.”
While saying that his essay wasn’t intended as a joke or hoax, but “an open door, to rethink Tintin with another point of view”, Cespedes believes that the idea can still be argued. “Tintin is not a real person, Tintin is literature, art … If every child in this generation reads Tintin thinking it is a girl, in one generation Tintin becomes a girl,” he said. “It is literary, it relies on interpretation.”
Whatever Cespedes’s intentions, he might be on to something, said Benoît Peeters, a Tintin expert and Lancaster University’s visiting professor in graphic fiction and comic art. While Hergé “certainly” did not consciously intend to make Tintin a gender-neutral character, Peeters believes that there is “something neutral” about the young reporter.
“He was so young when he created Tintin – in a few hours. At that time, he was inspired by Paul, his younger brother,” said Peeters. “Officially, Tintin is a young boy, aged 17. But I believe that there is something neutral in the character. And that’s why girls can read the book with the same pleasure as boys.”
!!!@@@$$$

Following the posthumous albums Michael and Xscape, it would appear the well of unreleased Michael Jackson material is running dry. There was a flurry of excitement as a “new album” was announced earlier this year, entitled Scream, due to go on sale on 29 September. But the only new music on it is a mashed-up version of five relatively deep cuts, tacked on to the end of a compilation – one that is fascinatingly awkward in its presentation of Jackson.
He is one of the few stars to have become so big that they burn brightly long after they’ve died. He has earned more than $100m every year since his death, the jukebox musical Thriller Live still plays on the West End, and his iconography – gloves, light-up pavements, “cha’mone”, etc – remains etched in our culture. But perhaps mindful of the way that another seemingly permanent supernova, Elvis, is dimming in our collective consciousness, Jackson’s record label Epic is using Scream to repackage him for a new generation.
Timed to mine maximum Halloween coin (“Scream reflects the King of Pop’s affection for this time of the year and its themes of costumes and disguise, darkness and light, character transformations and surprise,” reads the press release), Scream’s artwork features bats and a full moon, and trades on Thriller’s celebration of cinematic horror. By framing Jackson as theatrically phantasmagoric – a kind of horror movie character – it attempts to deflect our attention from his real-life freakishness.
But it ends up underlining it all the more. The title track is not about a scream of delighted Halloween fear, but of pure frustration. One of the most interesting things about Jackson is how everything seems to tighten as his career progresses, from his dance moves to his chest and throat as he sings; initially lithe and in control on Rock With You, by the time of 1995’s Scream he is audibly contorted in his pent-up rage. Leave Me Alone is similarly wretched, a psychological study rather than a funhouse ride. Dirty Diana and Dangerous, both also included on the compilation, are howls of a different kind – those of a man repelled by his own lust. On the latter he says, “she came at me in sections” – he seems so terrified by women that he has to disassemble them.
Jackson’s use of horror movie tropes, meanwhile, is catnip for armchair psychologists. His joy in Thriller’s chorus, singing of the thrill of cinematic fear, is perhaps the joy of escapism; the scares are safely hemmed in by the four sides of a screen. But elsewhere he uses the vocabulary of horror films to directly express his personal fears. On Ghosts, he characterises jealousy as a phantom who stalks his house; Jackson himself becomes a ghost on Threatened, a fantasy of control where he moves omnipotently around a love rival. Is this man, so famously denied a childhood, having to grasp at film imagery to make sense of how he feels, in lieu of a proper grounding in emotion?
By framing these songs together, Epic have further underlined how complicated Jackson was, and further defined him as the strange, sexually fraught person that the compilation is perhaps trying to make listeners forget. The unavoidable fact is that his music was a scream, in every sense.
!!!@@@$$$

In February this year, the New York art world was abuzz with the sound of scandal. Talk was only of one thing: a New York Times front page which had posed the provocative question ‘Is the Met a great institution in decline?’. The allegations against the museum were wide-ranging: financial mismanagement, discontented staff, inappropriate office relationships, a misguided investment in modern art and an expensive obsession with digitising the collection. And the blame landed on the shoulders of one person: Thomas Campbell, the British tapestries curator, who had taken over as director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art eight years previous.
The guillotine of public criticism was sharp and swift. Just 24 days after the first of an onslaught of damning articles were published, Campbell announced his resignation from one of the most important roles in the art world. Seven months on, Campbell, who barely addressed the scandal as it was unfolding, now avidly disputes the narrative that he ran the museum into the ground, and stands by the divisive modernising agenda that eventually led to his downfall.
“I found myself, perhaps to a degree I never anticipated, being a change agent, which is ironic for someone who is a historian of European tapestries,” said Campbell with a weary laugh when first we speak in July, just days after he has formally stepped down. “Look, the Met’s a very political place, and that meant there were voices who were partisan to one agenda or another who were whipping things up. I tried very hard as director to be even-handed.”
Two of Campbell’s most public critics have been George R Goldner and former senior administrator Harold Holzer, both of whom had worked at the museum for at least two decades. Both took the stance that the Met had found itself with an impending $40m deficit in 2015 because of Campbell’s inexperience and spending on a flashy website and an expansion into contemporary art, which had compromised the museum’s scholastic expertise and ruined its finances.
Goldner gave the New York Times the infamous quote about the Met being in decline, and later told the the Art Newspaper: “Too much was done simultaneously, and too quickly. Even though the Met is a wealthy institution, this led to certain things being done less well and to a financial crunch.” He added: “A lot of people have been pushed out, some of whom were very good … other departments have felt that their concerns have been relegated to a secondary position behind contemporary art and digital media.”
Several Met insiders believe Holzer was the unnamed source in a Vanity Fair story which suggested that the former Met boss exacerbated the institution’s “budgetary looseness” in his quest to make it “new and trendy”. One board member described both Holzer and Goldner as “absolutely livid” at Campbell’s vision for the Met. “There were some real grudges being played out in the New York Times and Vanity Fair,” said one trustee.
Holzer says any suggestion that he briefed against Campbell is “ridiculous”. “I had no vendetta against Tom and to suggest I was inspired to malice by a grudge against his ‘modern-art agenda’ is ridiculous,” he said via email. Goldner did not reply when asked for comment.
Campbell, born in Singapore, raised in the UK and educated at Oxford and the Courtald Institute of Art in London, arrived at the Met as an assistant curator in 1995. “Tapestry Tom”, as he came to be known, is the first to admit that his appointment as director 14 years later came as much as a surprise to him as his colleagues. While he had curated critically acclaimed exhibitions, he was not seen as an obvious leader, nor as his predecessor Philippe de Montebello’s heir apparent.
“When they first approached me, I thought, ‘My god, you’ve got to be joking’,” Campbell recalled. “But when I thought about it, there was a logic to it. I was a mid-career curator who was passionate about the museum and its mission and had perhaps a fairly good idea of how it needed to evolve.”
Talking to the New Yorker back in 2009, de Montebello described Campbell as “solidly grounded, not an ivory-tower academic. He is extremely personable, he is very open, he is very articulate, and there is a degree of toughness in him.” Yet fast-forward eight years, and de Montebello had something very different to say about his successor.
“It has been a difficult period for the museum, one in which a lot of very good people have suffered and left involuntarily,” said de Montebello in an interview with Artnet recently. “As far as I know, there is absolutely no way the trustees could foresee that this man would basically become a totally different human being the day he was made director.”
It’s a cutting critique and Campbell visibly winces when de Montebello’s comments are brought up (the pair used to have regular lunches but haven’t spoken in months). “I’ve been portrayed as a bit of a hick in the press lately but when I took on the job I learned quickly,” he says, still noticeably stung by the widespread accusation of ineptitude. “It was absolutely a baptism of fire because my appointment was announced on 9 September 2008 and a week later Lehman brothers collapsed, and the whole world went into meltdown. The Met lost 22% of our endowment by the end of my first year.”
Campbell, who has the demeanour of a kindly headmaster, is most animated when discussing his recent attendance at a global museum conference in Hong Kong. He recounts how directors of some of the most staunchly traditional scholarly museums in the world paced on stages with mics “like TED talk presenters” and spoke of their modernising, digital ambitions to transform archaic, scholarly institutions. After his own similar vision for the Met was publicly dragged through the mud over the past few months, Campbell felt somewhat vindicated.
“It was a fascinating reflection of this moment where many museums, especially in the west, are challenged by the finances – and we’ve all been challenged to make ourselves relevant not only to existing audiences but to new audiences,” he says. “It really made me feel validated, as one of the things I’ve done here over the last eight years has been to modernise the Met.”
The tussle between the old and the new would become a defining factor of Campbell’s tenure the Met. “It was highly regarded as one of the great museums of the world but perhaps had a reputation of being a bit austere, not that friendly,” Campbell says. “I think that the museum was very stuck in its ways in some respects, both in terms of who its scholarship was being addressed to, and in the way it thought about audiences. So I was asked to digitise and modernise the museum – the board were very specific that was my mandate.”
Yet there are those that have said that Campbell became blinded by his enthusiasm for digital, an expensive infatuation that led him to throw more cash at the website and social media department than five other departments combined (at its peak it had a staff of 75 and ran at a cost of $20m – though he insists this was only temporary). These efforts did draw in younger audiences, and visitor numbers went up by a record-breaking 50%, but it was “too much, too fast”, according to Goldner. Social media appeared to swallow money once used to fund core curatorial departments, and that was not an easy sell to staff. One trustee said that had the technology board been more aware of the impending precarious financial situation of the museum, which would lead to over 100 jobs cuts, they may have been “less gung-ho to approve Campbell’s very expensive digital plans”.
Campbell has also been accused by some former staff of weak leadership and playing favourites. Managing personal and professional agendas was not Campbell’s speciality, said insiders, and he had a “tight inner circle” which was widely perceived to be impenetrable and often alienating for those not in it. “He didn’t have the broad base of support among the senior curators and the staff, and I think that is a fault and it probably goes back to a lack of prior management experience,” commented one trustee.
These accusations of favouritism became a particular problem for Campbell in 2012, when Erin Coborn, who he had appointed as his chief digital officer in 2010, filed an official complaint that Campbell was having an “inappropriate relationship” by playing favourites with another female member of staff in the digital department (Met executives investigated Coborn’s claim but he was exonerated of any wrongdoing).
When the allegations of behaving inappropriately (or as Vanity Fair salaciously put it, his “friskiness with women staff”) are put to him, Campbell is resolute that the “unfounded complaint” has been manipulated to discredit his digital agenda and tarnish him as a director. “It’s gossip and innuendo,” he says bluntly. All he did, he says, was use his position as director to “identify rainmakers, and that inevitably leads to people saying ‘this person is a favourite’ or ‘that person’s a favourite’. But there’s no grounding to it.”
Yet, if his digital programme had been the cause of some internal friction at the Met, it had nothing on Campbell’s other key agenda as director: to finally make the Met as respected in the field of modern and contemporary art as it was in its pre-20th century collection. It was an area which had long been neglected – the museum had only established a department of contemporary art in 1967 – but Campbell felt that if the Met wanted to remain relevant, it could not be ignored any longer. “Seeing modern and contemporary at the Met is different to seeing it at MoMA or at the Whitney or at Tate because you see it in this bigger context of an encyclopedic collection, so it has resonances for the contemporary but it’s also very invigorating for the historical collection.”
What would eventually prove most controversial was not the modern art itself, but the spaces where the modern art would hang. First there was the now infamous southwest wing saga, which began as a small vision of renovating the widely-panned contemporary art galleries, the Lila Acheson Wing, to make them look less like an airport lounge-cum-motel.
By 2014, this had snowballed into a major project which would see the entire southwest wing of the gallery, which included the Lila Acheson Wing, completely renovated. A design for the project was selected: an ambitious vision designed by David Chipperfield, which involved a new entrance to the museum from Central Park and would cost an eye-watering $600m.
Running parallel to this was the project of the Met Breuer, the former home to the Whitney museum, a building Campbell signed the lease for in 2011 with a vision it would become an outpost for a bolstered contemporary art collection and exhibition programme at the Met. But what had seemed like a pioneering idea instead became an extra $17m drain on already-straining resources when it opened in 2015.
At this point, a deep dive into the finances by newly appointed chief operating officer Dan Weiss had found that if internal costs that had been building for decades weren’t cut, the museum faced a possible $40m deficit. While the deficit had little to do with Campbell’s decisions as director, for a museum with a $3bn endowment, and an annual revenue of $390m, it seems hard to understand how this impending financial black hole blindsided the director and the board. Campbell’s penchant for transformative but expensive projects became a harder sell to staff, who felt they were “bearing the financial burden”, according to one observer.
“With hindsight I should probably have done less of everything, but I was only as good as the financial information I was being given,” Campbell says, in a rare concession that his agenda may have got a little out of hand.
“But the financial situation got blown up by some pundits as a crisis, which it wasn’t,” says Campbell. “It got blown out that we were in a crisis when we were actually taking steps to make sure we didn’t get into a crisis. ... But I realise it was demoralising and it generated anxiety and agitation in an institution that has always been very resistant to change.”
Jeff Rosenheim, chief photography curator at the Met, described first hand the impact the ensuing cuts had on morale at the museum. “I would say that the pain for many of us at the museum was triggered mostly by job cuts, and by seeing colleagues pushed towards early retirement when they were really not done with their careers or not ready to retire,” he says. “We – that is all of us on the staff – were not comfortable being made to feel by the board that we were part of the problem.”
By this point in 2016, the board had got cold feet about Campbell’s push for contemporary art. No big donors had instantly stepped up to contribute towards the $600m for the southwest wing, which was seen by many as a direct failure on the part of Campbell to convince the monied figures in the art world about his vision. He claims otherwise, though undoubtedly his enthusiastic public communication around the whole project was misguided. “I had not started on a large-sale fundraising campaign, I’d merely had some quiet conversations with some potential donors,” he says.
In January, a decision was made by the board to pause going forward with the wing, and instead attend to the more pressing and costly issue of replacing the skylights over the European painting galleries. The press pounced on it as proof of Campbell’s failures, and internally, staff who had pinned their hopes on finally having a fitting space for modern art were frustrated by this change of course. “I thought there was momentum behind the wing and I thought we were on a schedule for 2020 that was set by the board and the administration,” says Rosenheim. “We’d chosen an architect and I believed we were moving forward on this. So yes, I mean it’s somewhat disappointing.”
Yet, for all the internal rumblings of discord, Campbell said that by the beginning of 2017, he believed “we were over the hump, that the dust was beginning to settle”, especially as visitor numbers remained at a record high of 7 million. He therefore did not expect to see his name splashed across the front page of the New York Times on 4 February 2017, nor was prepared for the backlash that followed. For certain board trustees who had lost faith in Campbell over the past two years, the articles were final proof he, and his agenda, had failed. For Campbell it was clear that he no longer had the full support of the board, and that what he calls “some nasty personal agendas” had gained too much momentum. On 24 February, Campbell said enough was enough and he resigned, effective 1 July. The board did not fight for him to stay.
Campbell’s take on the manner in which he found himself unexpectedly unemployed is one of cautious diplomacy rather than bitterness – “obviously I’d rather this all hadn’t happened but it goes with the territory” – though the speed at which the tide turned against him, both inside the museum and out, clearly left him reeling. He also agrees with me when I suggest that no matter whose side you take, that the whole thing feels extremely juvenile and petty for a museum of the Met’s stature. Yet for all the facade of gracious defeat, he clearly thinks history will remember his agenda as progressive rather than crippling.
The search for his replacement at the Met has now begun, but Campbell, who is to spend the whole of next year on a Getty Rothschild Fellowship, says that after all the mudslinging and efforts he believes were made to discredit his modern agenda, “the board need to take stock and think about what they want for the Met. Do they still want the same modernising mandate they gave me?”
!!!@@@$$$

It’s rare for someone who makes TV documentaries to become the subject of one. But earlier this year, Tom Hanks hosted a tribute show called Ken Burns: America’s Storyteller. Colleagues, historians and even presidents praised the work of a film-maker who has consistently encouraged Americans to look to their past.
Burns made his name with The Civil War in 1990, analysing historical divisions in the US from 1861-65. Now, he burnishes his supremacy among factual film-makers by tackling the second great nation-splitting conflict that occurred exactly a century later.
The Vietnam War – co-directed by Burns and his regular collaborator, Lynn Novick – has the advantage over The Civil War of being able to feature personal testimony and TV news footage but otherwise repeats the virtues of his earlier series: authoritative commentary, exhaustive research and scrupulous negotiation of disputed facts.
Even so, the US’s intervention on behalf of south Vietnam against the communist regime in the north created rifts in US society – between left and right, young and old – that still affect politics and culture today, making this the most contentious project Burns has ever attempted.
Such is the breadth of analysis here that Burns suggests the roots of the conflict began even before the story he told in The Civil War: the opening episode (of 10) is date-stamped “1858-1961”. Viewers’ double-take at that number 18 is soothed by a typically erudite explanation of the way French colonial ambitions in south-east Asia established faultlines that shaped the US’s later intervention.
A key insight in the opening episode comes from a retired CIA operative who argues that, when the US initially intervened on behalf of the French, it fatally assumed an overlap between De Gaulle’s imperialist ambition and the US’s anti-communist paranoia. Vietnamese resistance to French interests, the old spook says, should in retrospect have been seen “as the end of the colonial era, not the start of a cold war”.
The early programmes could have done more (especially for an international audience) to explain the toxin of anti-communism in the US at the time: there is no mention of the red-hunts of Senator McCarthy, which surely did as much to create the context for the US’s misjudgment as a mistaken solidarity with French aims.
Burns and Novick are noted for the even-handedness of their histories and here, the impartiality crucially extends to Vietnamese testimony. During a sequence on a surprise US military setback early in the conflict, a former north Vietnamese guerrilla fighter remembers: “From that moment, we were no longer scared of the enemy.”
As always in Burns’s work, there’s a sense of days of conversations edited down to killer lines. A diplomat recalls US commander General Westmoreland boasting that he was killing 10 Vietnamese for every one American casualty, and being told: “But Westy, Americans don’t care about the 10, they care about the one.”
The speakers are captioned with their roles at the time: “Neil Sheehan, journalist”; “Karl Marlantes, marine.” Those intros omit to say that these witnesses went on to write definitive accounts of the war – Sheehan’s A Bright Shining Lie, Marlantes’ Matterhorn – but this literary hinterland explains the high quality of their contributions. “We thought we were an exception to history: the Americans,” says Sheehan. “We thought we would never fight a wrong war.”
In any history of conflict, the dead must also speak, and this happens extraordinarily in the third and fourth parts. An elderly US woman recalls how she once read to her young son, who was obsessed with war stories, the pre-Agincourt speech from Shakespeare’s Henry V. Her boy, Denton Crocker Jr, went into the breach in Vietnam. We know at once from the wet glint in her eyes that he didn’t come safe home, but the story of the 19-year-old’s sacrifice in a war that Americans soon disowned is wrenchingly told through his family’s memories, intercut with battle footage from the first war fought on television.
Among the illustrations is a Christmas message the Crockers recorded for a local TV station that was giving troops’ families the chance to say a festive hello to the boys over there. The inclusion of this astonishing clip is a testimony to the archive research that is the meat of any Burns piece. Treasures here include Vietnamese propaganda paintings of plummeting US helicopters and, in another impressive section, colour footage from Kennedy home movies, showing JFK preparing for a TV interview on Vietnam. A fragment of news film catches a wounded US soldier flashing at the camera a look of pleading despair that seems to implore the folks at home to resist this war. As often in the series, seconds of screen-time hint at months of work.
Even the musical score is lovingly done: subtle new compositions by Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross, avoiding the obvious emotional manipulation of Hollywood soundtracks, are interspersed with period songs from politically committed songwriters such as Bob Dylan and Paul Simon.
Occasionally, Burns’ and Novick’s approach may be too pure. Aiming for neutrality, Peter Coyote’s narration (of a script by historian Geoffrey C Ward) sometimes succumbs to stentorian monotony. And a preference for specially recorded interviews means the directors deny themselves the use, except in voiceover precis, of the revelations in The Fog of War: Eleven Lessons from the Life of Robert S McNamara, the 2003 documentary by Errol Morris in which the US defence secretary responsible for escalating US involvement in Vietnam gave an extraordinary self-flagellating account of his errors.
Vietnam is a rare war for which Britain (thanks to Harold Wilson) didn’t sign up, so UK viewers watch with a historical disinterest that could never be the case for any American. But The Vietnam War means that students of US history are – for the second time – indebted to Burns for the far better essays they will now be able to write – and so too are viewers everywhere: these are TV histories that will stand for ever in the history of TV.
The Vietnam War starts on BBC4 tonight at 9pm.
!!!@@@$$$

Elizabeth Strout once told a friend: “Kathy, if I ever return to a small town, I want you to kill me.” She wrote about this conversation here in the Guardian; alas, she didn’t give us Kathy’s response. I for one am very keen to know if Kathy still feels any obligation to her friend’s request – because, if she does, Strout’s days are numbered.
Not only has Strout bought a house in rural Maine, she also keeps coming back to small-town life in her fiction. The same places, too. In Anything Is Possible, she returns to Amgash, Illinois, the rural hometown of the narrator of her novel, My Name Is Lucy Barton. With this new collection of intertwining stories, she also revisits many of the same characters, and even scenes from last year’s excellent Booker-longlisted novel. Now we get full dramatic treatment of incidents that received passing mention as Lucy’s mother gossiped away the hours beside her daughter’s hospital bed. Some of the questions raised in the earlier novel are answered; in My Name Is Lucy Barton, her mother asks: “Now how does that feel, I’ve always wondered. To be known as a Pretty Nicely Girl?” Here, we actually get to sit with the Nicely sisters as they muse over that very same thing. (One says “horrible”, the other not.) Such elucidation has its satisfactions. But it can also be like reading the extended footnotes to a more complete novel.
Even without that sensation, it would be hard not to make comparisons. Strout may, thankfully, have forgone the clumsy meta-textual interventions that sometimes spoiled My Name Is Lucy Barton – but otherwise Anything Is Possible doesn’t quite live up to its illustrious predecessor.
One of the successes of that book was Strout’s carefully developed sense of mystery. The way she kept us hovering on the edge of understanding as she slowly, carefully teased out what caused her narrator to feel so brittle and damaged. These short stories don’t allow such gradual exposure. A sense of growing revelation and understanding is replaced by the shock of quickly revealed secrets. These fast emotional jabs have their own power, but some of their effectiveness diminishes as the collection goes on: we learn to roll with the punches. It all starts to feel a little predictable. As soon as a leading character comes on to the page (and all but one of the chapters contains a first-sentence introduction), you start to wonder about the pain in that person’s life and to brace for the reveal. If there’s talk of a parent in a story, you can generally assume said parent has a fault. If there are childhood memories, they will never be entirely happy. A marriage will have – to use one of Lucy’s favourite terms – “problems”. And over the course of the whole book, the stories can feel almost as monochrome as the giant midwestern cornfields Strout lovingly describes seeing from a car window. I began to feel like a passenger counting down the miles on those featureless Illinois highways, longing for variation, perhaps a skyscraper or mountain.
Sometimes, Strout does aim to surprise us, but unfortunately the more unusual stories also tend to be the least effective. The weakest is about a rich couple who use webcams to spy on a houseguest. Jay, the husband, is (as everyone also points out) “creepy”. So creepy that you question why any stranger would consent to stay in the house, let alone keep coming back night after night – as the story requires, in order to get to its overwrought denouement.
But more often, the stories feel sincere, human and moving. There’s no doubt that Strout is a fine and expressive line-by-line writer. There are some exquisite moments: during one particularly tense scene, a character looks at a rug he has recently bought and: “The rug seemed to holler at him, You are such a dope for buying me.” It’s a fine moment of humour and light in a dark, claustrophobic scene. But it’s also a moment that reveals sad volumes about the character’s insecurity and wry sense of self. There are dozens of other lines that seem similarly quiet and innocuous – until they burst in your head like star showers. Those alone make it worth making the long drive to this small town again … in spite of the occasionally disappointing scenery.
!!!@@@$$$

In a concrete bunker situated miles below civilisation lives a crack team of scientists dedicated to one thing and one thing only: ruining Peter Rabbit as comprehensively as they possibly can.
Parents of young children might be fooled into thinking that their mission has already been a success. After all, there’s already a CBeebies Peter Rabbit adaptation that paints the sedate, 115-year-old Beatrix Potter character as a go-get-’em adventurer whose escapades are typically soundtracked by a series of nightmarish sub-Levellers songs about standing your ground and laughing in the face of danger.
But the scientists persisted. Yes, they’d hugely damaged the Peter Rabbit brand, but they hadn’t yet irreparably ruined it. Then one day, one of the scientists called his colleagues around. Shaking with the power of his own awful imagination, he pointed at what he’d written on his blackboard. It read “3D live-action/CGI animated adventure comedy movie”. The other scientists gasped, but one – emboldened by this hideous new vision – went one step further. He grabbed a piece of chalk and, trembling, added “Starring James Corden” beneath it. The scientists applauded. One started vomiting. They’d done it.
At least based on its trailer, the Peter Rabbit film appears to have been aggressively engineered to make people sad. Even more so than other kids’ properties that have been given needless updates over the years, the Peter Rabbit film looks like the result of some blisteringly inept manhandling. Sure, Thunderbirds might have opted for a live-action remake directed by Riker from Star Trek. And, sure, The Magic Roundabout might have self-immolated twice over, casting Robbie Williams as Doogal in the UK version and rebranding entirely as Doogal (‘Things are about to get hairy!’) in America. And, obviously, Postman Pat was crushed into dust the moment someone made a film about him entering X Factor and fighting off a legion of robot cats.
But there’s something genuinely harrowing about the sight of Peter Rabbit – gentle, Edwardian Peter Rabbit – thoughtlessly injuring some birds, or grabbing a pile of lettuce leaves and making it rain like a banker in a stripclub, or literally twerking. No joke, all of these things happen in the trailer. There’s even a moment where a badger hurls a hedgehog at a dartboard, and it’s so much like the dwarf-throwing scene from The Wolf of Wall Street that you’re left with the incontrovertible feeling that this entire venture was put together by people who genuinely hate Peter Rabbit.
Just look at Mr McGregor. In all previous versions he’s been a villain – his primary objective has always been to cook Peter Rabbit in a pie – but in this trailer he’s the only sympathetic figure. He’s the guy who comes home to find his house trashed by Peter Rabbit, and his despair is palpable. “Not again,” he’d say if he hadn’t been so utterly numbed by trauma. That’s how much of a dick this Peter Rabbit is. He actually makes you side for the baddie. For shame.
The fact that Corden – who, thanks to his roles in Trolls, The Emoji Movie and now this, seems like a man hellbent on screwing up as many kids as he can – voices Peter Rabbit just underlines it all. Something has gone terribly, terribly wrong along the way here.
Beatrix Potter was a famous stickler for protecting her work – she refused to sell the Peter Rabbit rights to Walt Disney – so there is no way on Earth that she’d have ever given the green light to a slow-motion car crash like this. But now the floodgates are open, let’s really go for it. Let’s give Tom Kitten a machine gun and a thirst for vengeance. Let’s give Squirrel Nutkin a rocketpack and a sleeve tattoo. We’ve gone this far already. Why not finish the job?
!!!@@@$$$

Calista Flockhart bounced on to our screens in 1997, wearing oversized pyjamas, mouth permanently pouted in a kiss or ooh-ing along to her favourite tune, as David E Kelley’s pint-sized lawyer Ally McBeal. She opened doors with her bottom while carrying too many packages, was frequently caught out talking and/or dancing to herself when she thought no one was looking, and her reaction to finding someone attractive was usually to fall over.
She sounds annoying, but to millions of women in their 20s, she was the diminutive embodiment of our inner angst: about how to be a grown up when we felt like children; how to function single when every indication from the universe told us to couple up. Time magazine tagged her as one of the death knells of feminism, which seems harsh. But she sure was hung up on those boys. Well, one in particular.
McBeal was a legal eagle at Boston firm Cage & Fish and the cast was jammed with comic talent – the show launched the careers of Jane Krakowski, Lucy Liu and Portia de Rossi to name but three. Plus Greg Germann as Richard Fish and Peter MacNicol as John Cage formed my favourite, quip-trading TV double act of the decade.
They all got to shine, but it was the neurotic McBeal – who could barely keep her mind on the job, so busy was she swinging from the cubicles in the same-sex bathrooms and dancing away her cares about fertility – who really owned this show. In Ally’s universe, weird things happened. Hallucinations, dance routines, dream sequences, everything was possible. No 90s veteran will ever erase from their minds the image of that ghostly dancing baby who used to visit Ally’s apartment late at night, heralded by strange tribal chanting before throwing some sassy moves on her carpet and disappearing again. Yes, Ally McBeal was weird and that’s why we loved it. A show willing to portray humans as pleasingly flawed and prone to bad decisions, but somehow celebrating that, rather than passing judgment.
Then, midway through season three, the love of Ally’s life, Billy Thomas, dropped dead of a brain tumour while declaring his lifelong adoration for everyone’s favourite kooky twiglet in the middle of a court hearing, even though he’d gone on to marry someone else. Game over. The grief didn’t sit well, apart from allowing Billy to pop back and haunt Ally now and again.
Kelley tried repeatedly to reintroduce romantic tension into her life, first with Robert Downey Jr as Larry Paul. Although he was charming and cute and every bit as quirky as the legal pixie, he committed the unforgivable sin of recruiting Sting to sing Every Breath You Take to her during one of her many visits to the piano bar near work where such things were commonplace.
Larry was written out of the show shortly thereafter, but because of Downey Jr’s substance difficulties rather than crimes against music. In the last gasps, Jon Bon Jovi with a haircut was wheeled out to bedazzle Ally with his soulful sincerity, but no one’s heart was really in it by then and he didn’t even make it to season’s end. The show fizzled after five seasons when it should have kablooey-ed loudly and proudly after three. It’s always a shame when the party goes on too long. You’re drunk, McBeal. Go home.
!!!@@@$$$

Like many actors who turn to writing, Sophie Wu has a knack for nifty dialogue. Her debut play is an engaging, quirky 80-minute piece about the kinship of oddballs and the disruptiveness of innocence. It shows enough promise to make you hope that Wu in future pushes herself further.
Wu’s setting is the west coast of Scotland where Jim, a 32-year-old loner who collects crustaceans and acts as a luckless tourist guide, is being badgered by his 19-year-old girlfriend, Pocahontas, to settle down. She dreams of marriage, a job as a mortgage adviser and a four-bedroom house: the fish-loving Jim is more thrilled by the prospect of a world crustacean congress in Frankfurt.
What changes their lives is the unexpected arrival of an English weirdo, Ramona, whom Jim has not seen for 15 years, since the two of them lost their virginity on a beach while awaiting a rare meteor shower. The best scenes are those that flash back to that first brief encounter.
Both characters are a bit like the hermit crabs Jim assiduously collects and Wu writes well about the affinity between natural outsiders: Ramona and Jim are two solitaries who discover a shared passion for Enya’s Orinoco Flow and make love with a fumbling awkwardness that leads Ramona to briskly conclude: “That’s sex done and dusted.” Too many kooks can sometimes spoil the theatrical broth but, while Wu understands the appeal of eccentric oddities, she also empathises with Pocahontas who, despite her extravagant name, craves only a life of normality in a family home with black-and-white pictures of New York skylines.
Ramona’s confession, when it comes, is predictable and the play has an anecdotal quality. The dialogue, however, is sharp and Mel Hillyard’s production, which switches easily between past and present, is well cast. Ruby Bentall as Ramona offers a clinically accurate study of someone who seeks to hide their social isolation under a surface cool.
Joe Bannister is equally good at conveying Jim’s haplessness, especially as he sees the Highland tourists he seeks to enthuse drifting away. Amy Lennox, latterly seen in Lazarus and Kinky Boots, also catches the pathos of the girlfriend who longs only for a life of numbing routine. It’s not exactly an earth-shaker but, as a dramatist, there is clearly a good deal of wit to Wu.

• At the Bush theatre, London, until 21 October. Box office: 020-8743 5050.
!!!@@@$$$

Jennifer Lopez has donated $1m in aid to the Puerto Rico recovery effort, following the devastating effects of hurricanes Irma and Maria.
Lopez, who is of Puerto Rican parentage and was born in the Bronx, has said she will source the money from her Las Vegas residency shows. On a video posted on her Instagram account, Lopez revealed that she had not been able to reach family members living on the island.
Please help us spread the word to help our fellow sisters and brothers in need #UnitedForPuertoRico #UnidosPorPuertoRico🇵🇷
A post shared by Jennifer Lopez (@jlo) on Sep 21, 2017 at 9:24pm PDT
She is co-chairing the New York state recovery effort, and announced her donation at a press conference on 24 September alongside the New York governor Andrew Cuomo, who had just returned from the island. They announced a scheme that encourages New York residents to donate goods, and aims to provide healthcare support.
Having already been battered by Hurricane Irma, on 20 September the island was hit by Hurricane Maria, the strongest storm to reach Puerto Rico in more than 80 years, with winds of 155mph and more than 20 inches of rain. It left the island’s 3.5m residents without power, a situation that could take months to rectify. The death toll currently stands at 10, but is expected to rise.
Lopez is currently performing the seventh leg of her Las Vegas residency, All I Have, which began in January 2016. The most successful Vegas residency of last year, the shows have grossed more than $50m to date.
!!!@@@$$$

Wild Beasts, the four-piece British band whose literate guitar pop took them from indie oddity to festival headliner, have split up after 13 years together.
In a letter posted on Twitter, they wrote: “The four of us have decided, for our own reasons and in our own ways, that it is now time to leave this orbit. We’re care takers to something precious and don’t want to have it diminish as we move forwards in our lives.” They hinted at farewell concerts, saying: “Before we go, we’d like to celebrate with you.”
pic.twitter.com/WTGi0JBS6D
They added: “We’ve created something quite of our own and built a body of work which we stand by as heartfelt and true,” and thanked fans for their “love and energy”.
The band formed in Kendal, Cumbria, in 2004, and stood out from the “landfill indie” of the era thanks to the flamboyant falsetto of frontman Hayden Thorpe, often placed next to the baritone of fellow vocalist Tom Fleming. After the energetic and rickety Limbo, Panto (2008), they honed their sound into sensual soft rock for second album Two Dancers, which earned them a Mercury prize nomination. They released another three albums – Smother (2011), Present Tense (2014) and Boy King (2016) – which saw them embrace ever more electronic production, with the latter two reaching the Top 10.
The band were noted for their lyrics, which frequently reflected on masculinity and sex. “We openly admit to being obsessed with sex,” Fleming told the Guardian in 2011. “We say things really bluntly at times – we like to be earthy.” They also wore their literary references and poetic lyricism with pride, railing against other bands for “dumbing down” their music.
!!!@@@$$$

Actor Jan Tříska, who moved to the US after being banned by Czechoslovakia’s communist regime, has died after falling from Prague’s iconic Charles Bridge. He was 80.
Prague theatre director Jan Hrušínský confirmed Tříska’s death on Monday. The actor died in Prague’s military hospital overnight due to injuries from the fall on Saturday, the circumstances of which remain unclear.
Tříska emigrated in 1977 after signing a human rights manifesto inspired by his close friend, dissident playwright Václav Havel. He settled in Los Angeles and appeared in dozens of movies, including Ragtime, The Karate Kid Part III and The People vs Larry Flynt, which was directed by his fellow Czech Miloš Forman. Tříska also appeared on television, in series such as Quantum Leap and Highlander: The Series, and on stage, starring as the Devil in a New York Public Theater adaptation of The Master and Margarita. Tříska’s films were banned from Czechoslovakian cinemas and TV screens until the fall of communism in 1989.
After the anti-communist Velvet Revolution led by Havel, Tříska regularly returned home to appear in stage productions and films, including taking a lead role in 1991 comedy The Elementary School, which was nominated for an Academy Award.
In the UK the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14. Other international suicide helplines can be found at befrienders.org.
!!!@@@$$$

The Silent Heavens
Here I wander about, and here I mournfully ponder:Weary to me is the sun, weary the coming of night:Here is captivity still, there would be captivity yonder:Like to myself are the rest, smitten is all with a blight.
Much I complain of my state to my own heart heavily beating:Much to the stars I complain: much to the universe cold;The stars that of old were fixed, in spheres their courses repeating;Solidly once were they fixed, and with them their spheres were rolled.
Then through the space of the spheres to the steadfast empyreanEcho on echo to Earth answered her manifold cries:Earth was the centre of things, and the threne of all, or the paean,Bearing hell in her heart, on her bosom all life that dies.
If they were fixed, as of old, in their firmament solid and vaulted,Then might the echo of woe or of laughter reverberate thence:Nor my voice alone, but to them all voices exalted,Should with due answer be met, murmuring sweet to the sense.
But they roll on their way through the void, the inane unretentive:Past them all voices stream into the echoless space.Where is the pitying grace, that once was prayer’s incentive,Where is the ear that heard, and the face that once answered to face?
In forgotten-poet-recovery mood this week, I was tempted to choose Richard Watson Dixon’s autumnal lyric, Song – the one that, melodiously and vividly, begins: “The feathers of the willow / Are half of them turned yellow …” But Song is not only Dixon’s least-forgotten poem: it’s usually the only representation of his work in the traditional anthologies. It’s wise to be cautious about perpetuating such choices – even the seemingly good ones. The reduction of a highly productive and verbally inventive Victorian poet to a one-trick pony may be a kindness, of course, but it needs examination. It might be a curse, entrenching the writer beyond hope of fuller rereading and possible reassessment.
Apart from Song, Dixon is known for his exchange of correspondence with Gerard Manley Hopkins. Hopkins was an admirer, though not an uncritical one: he found Dixon’s vocabulary so obscure at times he claimed to need the services of a Dixonary. But he was alert to the senior poet’s achievements and dismayed by their neglect. I was curious to find more poems that might be interesting and accessible to a contemporary reader, and which, like Song, would hint at the qualities Hopkins admired.
The Silent Heavens appeared in 1905, in Dixon’s last published collection, edited by Robert Bridges, five years after his friend’s death. It’s an autumnal poem in macrocosm, responding to the larger effects of time and evolving knowledge.
Mourning the cosmology of celestial spheres, Dixon is looking a long way over his shoulder. Perhaps, for a classicist and clergyman, such cosmologies remain stupendously engrained and unforgettable and their failure of credibility seems recent. But it might also be assumed that Dixon’s despair has been reinforced by Darwinism and other scientific developments nearer his own time.
That cosmology and theology, man and God, no longer meet in the harmonious structure of the universe might even connect with the disorientations of old age. In that particular autumn, points of fixity become essential, not only as the source of intellectual reassurance, but as physical markers.
At the heart of the poem, and energising its linguistic procedure, is the concept of echo. This is not the echo as natural phenomenon. It’s perhaps closer to the “echo” device, as used in such poems as George Herbert’s Heaven, in which the echo forms a new word, and therefore suggests an answer. Psalm-like in the use of parallelism, Dixon’s “song” is much concerned with the lost communality of voices. The sense of human belonging depended on the now-inaccessible fixed stars and their spheres, seen in stanza four as receptive to all the Earth’s voices.
The search in Dixon’s poem is for a response that would be a reflection of selfhood, as the last quatrain memorably pleads: “Where is the ear that heard, and the face that once answered to face?” This primary need seems to account for the melodic impulse, the incantatory pitch whose origins are strong personal feeling. The roll of the hexameter line is steady and fluent. Originally, lines two and four of each quatrain were indented, an apparently visual effect that heightens the linear music. The ghost of a mid-line caesura doesn’t destroy the vitality. It gives Dixon an extra little structure around which to bounce those gentle volleys of internal rhyme (wander, ponder; here, weary; old, rolled; space, grace, etc).
In the third line, second hemistich, a stress falls on “would” – an iambic emphasis that seems to heighten the shocked surprise of the thought that “captivity” and “weariness” will be duplicated in the heavens: “Here is captivity still, there would be captivity yonder …” The longing for an echo becomes central to stanza three, but the sounds of echo are continuously deployed throughout the poem.
Looking inwards becomes as hopeless a quest as searching outwards, “to the universe cold”. The self-directed first line of stanza two suggests the Hopkins sonnet beginning: “My own heart let me more have pity on.”
“Much I complain of my state to my own heart heavily beating,” Dixon laments, the line’s regularity demonstrating temporal entrapment. A heart “heavily beating” is beset by heavy grief. It’s also a relentlessly audible pump, working perhaps at the edge of its limits. This is a kind of “leaden echo” of the body listening to itself.
Poetry itself is wired to Earth, and the loss of power is brought about by the loss of the waves of echoes which “answered her manifold cries.” Earth was “the threne of all, and the paean” – the songs of lament and celebration. The last two lines of this stanza have an enraged accuracy: “Bearing hell in her heart, on her bosom all life that dies.”
In the last stanza, too, anger is palpable (“the inane unretentive”). This quatrain never loses power. If, sometimes, Dixon has closed a stanza on a phrase that suggests easy access to an unsurprising rhyme, he does the opposite here. The loss of the attentive ear and face, brilliantly simple and physical images of human connection, creates a psychological desert. It would be a mistake to read this as loss of faith. It’s partly an old man’s lament for silenced friends (including ideas that were friends), but, above all, it seems to express a poet’s despair at his lack of attentive readers.
!!!@@@$$$

Kenneth MacMillan holds a peculiarly revered position within the culture of the Royal Ballet. Many junior dancers say that it’s the principal roles within his story ballets – Romeo and Juliet, Mayerling and Manon – to which they most aspire. Older dancers acknowledge that performing the MacMillan repertory has not only shaped them profoundly as artists but has stamped a collective identity on the company. MacMillan’s works may be several decades old, the Royal may be about to commemorate the 25th anniversary of his death, but still there are elements of his style – his richly textured realism and his raw-edged characterisation – that dancers claim they find in no other choreographer.
Sarah Lamb, who joined the Royal from Boston Ballet in 2004, recalls how disorientating it was to perform MacMillan for the first time. As she learned the role of Juliet she found that all her ballerina habits were being systematically challenged. “I’d been trained in the Russian style, we’d been taught to always look pretty, but now I was being told ‘Don’t point your feet here!’ Kenneth wanted you to just stand. At first I was really obstinate. I didn’t see why I couldn’t emote while I was still pointing my feet. Now that I’ve been dancing his work for 12 seasons I understand the kind of naturalism he was aiming for. I realise he was trying to bring the same revolution to ballet that there had been in acting – moving away from the studied and the technical to something more visceral.”
MacMillan could always make ballet look beautiful. During the balcony scene of Romeo and Juliet (1965) his heroine appears almost evanescent – her little jumps are bubbles of air, her body flies weightless into Romeo’s arms. But at other points she’s required to look gauche, even ugly. When arguing with her parents she’s a stroppy adolescent; when she steels herself to take the Friar’s potion her body convulses so violently that she looks as though she might vomit across the stage.
By the time MacMillan came to choreograph Mayerling in 1978, he was pushing far more combatively against the rules of classical artifice. The work is a portrait of Rudolf, heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne. In representing the decadence of the late 19th-century Hapsburgs and Rudolf’s psychotic spiral into abusiveness and addiction, MacMillan wrenched the language to physical extremes – from the alienated brutality with which Rudolf manhandles his wife to the last-gasp, greedy sensuality of his duets with Mary Vetsera, his dark angel.
For the ballet’s male principal, the role of Rudolf is as exhausting mentally as it is physically. “You have to find things in yourself that you didn’t know were there,” says Edward Watson. “It’s terrifying and it’s exhilarating.”
As a senior principal, Watson has grown up through the MacMillan repertory. “They have affected the way I dance, the way I think about ballet,” he says. Even when the choreography has no obvious storyline it require dancers to reach for some kind of emotional truth or psychological hinterland. “Nothing is ever completely abstract in MacMillan’s work,” he says. “There’s always a tension between you and the music, you and the other people on stage. You always have to be thinking about how you’re going to create that atmosphere. How you’re going to be holding your shoulders, the way you go into an arabesque, fast or slow.”
Watson’s view is shared by Marianela Nuñez. Although she’s regarded as one of the company’s purest classical ballerinas – radiant, precise and magisterial in the repertories of Petipa, Balanchine or Ashton – she also cherishes the more visceral and seditious works of Macmillan: “They enable you to open yourself up and expose all kind of inner emotions.”
Dancers point to the fact that MacMillan’s characters are always complicated and flawed, allowing for an unusual freedom of interpretation. “So much is up to you,” says Lamb. “MacMillan’s genius was to give dancers the right to their own intelligence and autonomy.” One of her own choicest roles is the venal, manipulative Countess Larisch, a former mistress of Rudolf who effectively becomes his pimp. But for Lamb, Larisch is also a victim. “She’s part of this great wheel of society that is coming to end, she’s trying to survive as best as she can. And she is vulnerable because she really loves Rudolf.” There’s a similar leeway in how dancers can portray Manon (gullible girl or greedy woman) or even Rudolf (sadist or sufferer). It’s not just that MacMillan’s ballets encourage dancers to make moral and intellectual choices; they also permit an exceptional degree of physical spontaneity on stage.
William Tuckett, a choreographer in his own right and also one of the Royal’s most distinguished character artists, says that compared with the rigorously delineated choreography of Frederick Ashton or John Cranko, MacMillan allows his dancers “masses of wiggle room” – particularly in “the bits between the steps”. The way a character enters the stage, the gait of their walk, the glances and gestures that make up their interaction with other characters – all these are left unspecified. “MacMillan just provided these very broad stage directions,” explains Tuckett, “so you’re allowed to respond to the other people on stage in a very immediate, actor-based way. He galvanised the art of ballet from prescription to freedom.”
Different dancers respond to that freedom in different ways. Tuckett recalls that Sylvie Guillem could be positively unnerving. When she was dancing Manon he was often cast as the Gaoler in the ballet’s brutal prison scene. That scene ends with the Gaoler forcing Manon on to her knees to fellate him, and during one performance Guillem made herself almost impossible to catch and subdue. “She was being quite naughty that night,” chortles Tuckett, “and she really legged it around the stage. She ran in completely the opposite direction from what we’d rehearsed, I kept trying to grab her and by the end we were having to reconfigure the choreography just to catch up with the music.”
For Lamb, too, that window of spontaneity is crucial: “It never feels like a reproduction on stage, but as if it’s actually happening. I can put so much of myself into a performance that afterwards, when the curtain has gone down, I can find it difficult to return back to myself. A part of me has been left behind on the stage.”
The dancers of the Royal Ballet do not, of course, have an exclusive claim to MacMillan. For their commemorative programme this autumn they’ll be sharing the stage of the Opera House with dancers from English National Ballet, Northern Ballet Scottish Ballet and Birmingham Royal Ballet (who have their own historic association with MacMillan).
But the Royal do perform more MacMillan than anyone else. Many dancers believe that the interpretative demands that his ballets make on the Royal have an impact on how they perform every other ballet in the repertory.
Tuckett attributes his famously maverick performances of Drosselmeyer, controller of the magical events in The Nutcracker, to the instinct for transgression he learned from MacMillan. Those traits are exhibited through the ranks, all way down to the corps de ballet. Whether they’re members of the royal court in Swan Lake or villagers in Giselle, it’s natural for the corps to flesh out their anonymous roles with subtly individual colour.
Sarah Lamb says she only realised how singular a quality this was when she danced Giselle as a guest with a Russian company. “It was so different from the Royal where everyone is genuinely feeling their character on stage. All the dancers in the Russian corps were going through the same motions – now we look concerned, now we turn, now we put our hand to our face. It felt so fake.”
“It’s lovely, the way that the Royal has kept its acting aesthetic,” affirms Tuckett. “The idea that you’re making a world on stage and that even the smallest roles are crucial.” Yet as strongly as he admires MacMillan and acknowledges the choreographer’s influence on his own career, Tuckett does believe there’s a danger of complacency in the degree to which MacMillan is venerated. He points out that there were limitations and flaws in the great man’s work – not least in his presentation of women who, for all their intriguing complexities, are almost never the agents of their own stories and almost always the victims.
Tuckett also points out that MacMillan was never able to make as radical a break from convention as his contemporary Peter Brook achieved in theatre. Despite the choreographer’s deviations from the classical language, his exploration of darkly adult material and his occasional importing of experimental elements like text and film, MacMillan left much for later generations to do in modernising the form of the story ballet.
“Our way of doing narrative still hasn’t really moved beyond the tropes of the 19th century,” says Tuckett, who thinks younger choreographers should be encouraged to challenge themselves, their dancers and their audience more robustly. “MacMillan gave ballet a massive kick in the arse but we owe it to him, now, to develop things much further.”
!!!@@@$$$

Pharrell Williams has become the latest music star to show solidarity with NFL players, by sharing in their “take a knee” protest against racial injustice in the US.
Performing in Charlottesville, Virginia, the site of far-right marches in August, the R&B singer and rapper knelt in front of the crowd, saying: “If I want to get on my knees right now for the people of my city, for the people of my state, that’s what this flag is for”, a reference to the stars and stripes, and to freedom of speech. He also called for “freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of belief, freedom to live.”
The protest has been taken up since August last year by African American sports stars, who kneel and stay silent rather than sing the national anthem during sporting events, to highlight racism against black Americans. Numerous players from the Jacksonville Jaguars and Baltimore Ravens staged the protest during their game at Wembley stadium this weekend.
Stevie Wonder also made the protest during a concert this weekend, saying: “Tonight, I’m taking a knee for America, but not just one knee – I’m taking both knees. Both knees in prayer for our planet, our future, our leaders of the world and our globe. Amen.”
Fellow soul singer John Legend wrote in an op-ed for Slate: “Protest is patriotic. Protest has played a critically important role in elevating the voices of the most vulnerable in our nation ... They are the definition of patriotism ... Every time someone takes a knee or raises a fist, viewers must grapple with the why – with the uncomfortable reality that our country daily marginalizes thousands of people in impoverished communities.”
The wave of “take a knee” protests has infuriated President Trump, who told a rally over the weekend: “Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out! He’s fired. He’s fired!’” On Twitter, he encouraged Americans to boycott the NFL until players stopped protesting.
Other stars from outside the sport have rallied to support the protestors. TV host Ellen DeGeneres wrote on Twitter: “As a football fan, I am proud of the NFL players today. Nothing is more American than the right to peacefully protest.” Singer John Mayer said that “Trump’s comments re NFL further prove he’s hellbent on poisoning all aspects of American life,” while actor Olivia Wilde kneeled with the cast of Broadway show 1984 following a performance.
!!!@@@$$$

In 1970 Joan Didion – a good novelist but one of America’s great essayists – sentenced herself to a hardship posting. She volunteered to spend a month aimlessly on the road in Louisiana, Alabama and Mississippi, thinking that her trip “might be a piece”. She never wrote the article; now, luckily, her notes have been unearthed, along with some later musings about California, where she then lived. The result is a little book with a chilling power of prediction. In the intervening decades, the isolated, somnolent rednecks Didion encounters – people who even back then before cable news fed on information that was “fifth-hand, and mythicised in the handing down” – acquired an inordinate political power because of demographic shifts; last year they had their revenge when, in collusion with rust-begrimed losers from the midwest, they elected a president.
Coming from California, Didion sees the south as a metaphorical landscape, America’s heart of darkness. In the west, the frontier ethic erased history and equalised people, but the south remains colonial, obsessed with disparities of “race, class, heritage”. Wilderness on the western plains and in the mountains is redemptive; in the south it is rank, malevolent, encroaching everywhere.
The tour begins with a death: in New Orleans, a woman slumps forward over the wheel of her car, which veers into a tree. Nobody but Didion pays much attention; she might be in “a pre-Colombian city”, where individual deaths hardly mattered, given the appetite of indigenous deities for human sacrifice. Or is this already a postmortem place? Didion watches old people on balconies in the French Quarter, staring as they gently creak in their rocking chairs. “They have mastered the art of the motionless”, and perhaps the chairs are imperceptibly rocking cadavers to and fro.
The atmosphere throughout is creepily gothic. Light is sulphurous, absorbed by the surfaces it strikes. The torrid, syrupy air is unbreathable. Alligators thrash in the bayous, snakes writhe in pits among the rustling skins they have shed, armadillo shells crackle underfoot. Algae breed in a motel’s concrete swimming pool, and a cigarette butt bobs jauntily in the chlorinated water. An old man with a hearing aid stands in the middle of a scorching street and fires a shotgun into the sky. Didion, more fearlessly reportorial than I’d have been, asks what he’s shooting at. “Pi-eagins,” he drawls. “In this one demented afternoon Mississippi lost much of its power to astonish me,” she comments. Latin American magic realism is here trounced by the crazed reality of the deep south.
Imagine if your address was Basic City, Mississippi, a town so baseless that it’s not on the map
No wonder Didion suffers from a sense of disorientation that leaves her feeling torpid, as if underwater: at one point she is so desperate for contact with mainstream America that she visits a shopping mall. Southern place names induce an existential bewilderment. Imagine if your address was Basic City, Mississippi, a town so baseless that it’s not on the map. Would you trust yourself to cross the Demopolis Rooster Bridge over the Tombigbee river? And how about driving down a thoroughfare called, in apt homage to the segregationist governor of Alabama, the George C Wallace White Way? American optimism is hard to crush, so another nowhereville in Mississippi is called Onward, with no exclamation mark. Nearby, somewhat unconvincingly, is a farm entitled Reality Plantation.
A steamy afternoon in a laundromat, where the other customers teach her how to cheat the dryer out of coins, convinces Didion that “all women are sisters in misery”. Despite this twinge of compassion, there’s enough catty snobbery here to explain why Trumptards resent the coastal elites who belittle them. Didion is exasperated by the southern habit of eating dinner before sunset, and amused by the need to smuggle liquor into teetotal country clubs. She admires a black girl with an afro and a clinging jersey whose deportment has an inimitable “NY-LA” haughtiness. The permed local beldames regard Didion with suspicion: she has “long straight hair, not seen in the south among respectable women past the age of 14”. I’d say she was lucky to escape a lynch mob of suburban housewives in curlers, fresh from the beauty shop.
Didion has two timely points to make about the region. One is that the civil war remains unfinished business, because southerners – who spend holiday weekends re-enacting its battles on the sites where they occurred – still dispute the outcome: hence the current fuss over Confederate statues. The second, in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, is that the sodden, swampy gulf and delta were never meant for human habitation. They belong to the winds and waters, which are welcome to them. Noticing the wreckage of recent tropical storms, including a rusty oil tanker broken in half offshore, Didion reflects that “the coast was reverting to its natural state”.
At last she scuttles back to San Francisco, though even there America’s innate instability haunts her. Tectonic plates grate along the San Andreas fault, sharks cruise beneath the Golden Gate, and the Pacific, as she ominously says, “still trembles in its bowl”. The south at least has blood on the ground, which gives it historical ballast; in the west the ground is abandoned altogether by blissed-out, irreligiously mystical individuals. Didion’s fears are more pertinent now than they were almost 50 years ago when she jotted them down. Is there no hope for the fractious, disunited US, with its schismatic geology, its mad weather, and its madder belief in its manifest destiny?
• South and West: From a Notebook by Joan Didion is published by 4th Estate (£10). To order a copy for £8.50 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

Police cars can’t fly, artificial snakes are not commercially available, and the exodus to off-world colonies has not yet begun, but we’re already living in the world of Blade Runner – chronologically, at least. The original movie is set in 2019. Rutger Hauer’s replicant-in-chief has been activated since January 2016. He might be watching attack ships off the shoulder of Orion as we speak.
Looking ahead, we’re entering the uncomfortable era when many “futuristic” movies are set – usually of the dystopian, apocalyptic, “you really don’t want it to turn out like this” variety. If they’re anything to go by, we’ll be lucky if we make it to 2049, when the forthcoming Blade Runner sequel is set.
According to The Running Man, for example, the economy collapses this year. Art and communications are outlawed, and the United States is a repressive police state in thrall to sadistic reality TV – pure fantasy of course. Rollerball, set in 2018, predicts a similarly grim outcome. Meanwhile, horror series The Purge also begins this year: a night of violence and anarchy sanctioned by a totalitarian, civil rights-quashing US government – a climate eerily reminiscent of the Charlottesville protests.
More remote, but equally worrying, is anime par excellence Akira, set in 2019, when Tokyo has been destroyed. By ominous coincidence, its replacement, Neo-Tokyo, is due to host the 2020 Olympics – just like the real city will, assuming it’s still there.
But don’t worry: according to the sci-fi calendar, we’ve only got five years until global warming and overpopulation have us all eating Soylent Green anyway. And if we stick that out, we might get to 2026, the age of Metropolis. Even in the 1920s, the proto-sci-fi epic was laying out a pretty similar dystopia to that of Blade Runner, though its happy ending would be more heartening if we weren’t straight into Children of Men in 2027, by which time humanity is infertile and Britain is rounding up refugees in camps. It’s almost as if they foresaw Brexit.
Are the dates arbitrary? Fritz Lang merely set Metropolis 100 years on. Philip K Dick’s source novel for Blade Runner, written in 1968, was originally set in 1992. Or could it be that these sci-fi visionaries subconsciously intuited that this was about as long as modern society had? The way-off future is often brighter (Star Trek is in the 23rd century), but the most effective dystopias are ones we can imagine living long enough to experience, and therefore do something to avoid.
Blade Runner 2049 is in cinemas on 6 October
!!!@@@$$$

“So I need to know: Are you ready to be transformed?” shouts Scott Ross to the 900-strong crowd in the auditorium. They respond with raucous applause. To them, Ross is a legend. He ran George Lucas’s visual effects company, Industrial Light & Magic (ILM) in the 1980s, then founded his own Oscar-winning effects firm with James Cameron. His audience is largely made up of young people looking to follow in his footsteps: animators, video game designers, concept artists, illustrators and effects specialists. These are the people who build the digital worlds where we’re increasingly spending our leisure time – in movies, games, and virtual reality. They are transforming culture and they’ve come here to transform themselves, even if they’re not exactly sure what into.
Welcome to Trojan Horse Was a Unicorn. If the name sounds odd, that seems to be the idea. It takes place in Troia, Portugal, an idyllic peninsula just south of Lisbon. Its organisers describe it as “Burning Man meets TED Talks”, though it’s equally a spiritual retreat. Students and young professionals come here from across the world, as do big industry names looking to hire new talent, make connections and softly promote their brands – brands such as Disney, DreamWorks, Pixar, Google, Oculus (the Facebook-owned VR company), King (the makers of Candy Crush Saga) and Unity (makers of the pre-eminent game engine).
“It’s not a fair, it’s not a conference, it’s not a festival. There’s nothing to buy. It’s really an experience,” says André Luís, the 36-year-old creative force behind THU, as it’s often abbreviated. “It is one week where you come to change your life, and understand what you are doing.” Founder of the country’s first computer graphics school, Luís launched the event five years ago, frustrated at the difficulty Portuguese students had in getting recognition from companies abroad. The first year, 100 people came. Last year it was 600. This year, most of the €600 tickets sold out in 24 hours.
This is a booming industry, and a global one. All but three of the 20 highest-grossing movies this year so far are effects movies. Until the 2000s, VFX was primarily a Hollywood concern; now, thanks largely to the Harry Potter movies, the UK is one of the world’s centres, employing some 6,000 people. ILM (which is now owned by Disney) opened its London office four years ago. It now employs 500 people, supervising big titles such as the Star Wars series, Avengers: Age of Ultron and Jurassic World 2.
Much of what we see in big-budget movies is now digital, even in movies we assume to be “live action”. CGI is not just used for mythical creatures and sci-fi worlds but also costumes, props, sets, crowds, buildings, cities. Gravity, for example, whose Oscar-winning effects were produced in London, was entirely CGI apart from the actors. Technically, it is animation. Movies such as Disney’s recent, uncannily photorealistic Jungle Book point to a digital future indistinguishable from the real thing. All of this depends on human artists like the people who come to THU. What appears on screen begins in their minds and sketchbooks. The movie and gaming industries could not exist without them.
As well as giving this dispersed community a place to commune, THU is giving them an identity, a mythology even. They call themselves “the Tribe” and their logo is an ancient Greek shield. Ticket-buyers are “Warriors”, the industry insiders are “Knights”. These 40-odd knights give talks and lead workshops, but easy social mixing is equally encouraged, be that a drink in the open-air bar, a karaoke competition or a midnight “virtual reality battle”. They also manage expectations, in an industry where hopeful, creative individuals could find themselves animating a troll’s eyebrow for several months.
This year’s knights include Paul Briggs, who oversaw animation on Disney’s Frozen, anime director Shinji Aramaki, and British concept artist Rob Bliss, who started as an illustrator on comic book 2000AD and went on to design iconic characters such as Heath Ledger’s Joker in The Dark Knight, and Dobby from the Harry Potter movies.
Digital art is still frowned upon by fine artists, with its emphasis on sci-fi, fantasy, cartoons and comic books. This is not art with a capital “a”. These artists – mostly male, it has to be said – skew more towards dedicated misfits than louche bohemians. But as fine art becomes more hands-off and conceptual, digital artists are ironically sustaining the classical disciplines of drawing, painting and sculpture. It is a common sight at THU to see people scribbling in sketchbooks, though they’re often equally versed in 3D computer modelling or sculpting in VR. They prize technical skill and individuality, but their work is often a means to an end and a form of communication.
“The future is imagery,” says Ross. “Language no longer works in a global society. The Chinese guy doesn’t understand me, I don’t understand the guy in Japan, but if we start showing images that becomes the global language. And in the world of digital art you’re able to move and manipulate art globally. The future, we believe, is about the digital artist.”
In contrast to the dystopian futures its tribe members often consume and create, THU aims to put this community on a gently utopian path. Some have already been transformed. Spanish animation colleagues Jaime Maestro and Nadia Ruiz came to THU three years ago, got inspired, fell in love with each other, quit their jobs and founded a new company based along similar principles of ethical capitalism and respect for artists. Based in Valencia, they have a team of 40 artists. Their company is called La Tribu – Spanish for “The Tribe”. “What we wanted in the studio was to keep the same feeling we had here,” says Maestro.
Westworld (1973)The first use of computer-generated imagery (CGI) in a major movie. To render the viewpoint of Yul Bryner’s android, the team scanned and treated two minutes of footage, resulting in a low-resolution pixellation effect that looks quaint today, but took months to perfect.
Young Sherlock Holmes (1985)The Steven Spielberg-produced children’s adventure features the first fully CGI character: a knight made of panes of stained glass, who leaps off a church window and waves his sword for 30 seconds. The scene was created by future Pixar founder John Lasseter.
Toy Story (1995)The first entirely computer-animated feature, which paved the way with its marriage of technological and storytelling sophistication. Possibly the first time CGI characters generated as much empathy as live-action ones.
The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001)A watershed in motion capture – using the movements of a human actor (Andy Serkis) to give a CGI character (Gollum) uncanny expressivity. The technique now powers entire movies, such as this year’s War for the Planet of the Apes.
The Jungle Book (2016)Proof of how far CGI has come since Toy Story. Apart from Mowgli, everything in the movie is computer-generated, but it is almost indistinguishable from reality. Disney is now giving other old titles the same treatment, such as Aladdin, Pinocchio and Dumbo.
!!!@@@$$$

Alan Hollinghurst’s sixth novel, The Sparsholt Affair, opens in Oxford during the second world war and ends in London in 2012. As with its predecessor, The Stranger’s Child (2011), much of the action takes place offstage, in the interstices between chapters. The chapters themselves are spent watching as these events make their repercussions felt in the lives of Hollinghurst’s rich cast of characters. This is a book about gay life, about art, about family, but most of all it’s about the remorseless passage of time.
The 1940 section of the book is narrated by a bright but not quite brilliant undergraduate called Freddie Green. He has a circle of luminous friends at Oxford, among them the artist Peter Goyle and the louche Evert Dax, the son of a prominent novelist. If the opening section of The Stranger’s Child doffed its cap to EM Forster and Henry James, the line between tribute and pastiche never quite resolved, this is Hollinghurst showing that he can do an Oxford novel as well as Waugh. He’s wonderful on the “beautiful delay” of university life, on the cloisters and the quadrangles, tentative intimacies building between friends and lovers.
We first meet David Sparsholt in “that brief time between sunset and blackout when you could see into other people’s rooms”. Freddie, Peter and Evert look over towards the handsome new student, with his “glorious head, like a Roman gladiator”. As we get to know Sparsholt, it strikes us that he’s not a typical Hollinghurst figure. He claims to have no time for reading, is studying engineering, engaged to the sensible Connie, and sees Oxford as a regrettable interlude before he can join the RAF. We soon recognise, though, that while Sparsholt may lack poetry, he’s not the strait-laced square that at first he seemed.
The book’s second section opens on a Sparsholt family holiday in the early 1960s. This leaping forward in time is a slightly unsettling dynamic, familiar from The Stranger’s Child (and from 2004’s Man Booker-winning The Line of Beauty). There’s an inevitable feeling of sorrow that comes with the end of each section – I’d have been happy with a whole novel set amid the dreaming spires. In each new narrative world we have to act as sleuths, working out what has happened in the years we’ve skipped over, establishing where our sympathies now lie, what has been gained and lost.
We soon gather the facts about us. Sparsholt had a good war, married Connie, is now a wealthy industrialist. He has a son, Johnny, whose third-person perspective we inhabit for this section and most of the rest of the novel. There are some lovely adolescent passages in which Johnny fantasises over his French exchange, Bastien. David seems tightly wound and reserved, only happy when in the company of his friend, Clifford, who (with his wife Norma) is also on the holiday.
Then, and again in the gap between chapters, the “Sparsholt affair” itself occurs. It would be a spoiler to reveal too much here, but the date – 1966 – is crucial, coming just before the decriminalisation of homosexuality the following year. The next chapter takes place in the 1970s of rolling blackouts and three-day weeks. The grown-up Johnny Sparsholt is gay, dyslexic, the owner of a fine mane of hair. Through his work as a picture restorer, he finds himself increasingly drawn to Evert Dax’s home in Cranley Gardens. It’s here that a society called the Memo Club meet, friends from Oxford who turn obsessively over the events of their own shared past.
As one would expect of Hollinghurst, the greatest prose stylist writing in English today, this is a book full of glorious sentences, perhaps his most beautiful novel yet. During a blackout, we read: “Outside, the street lights were glowing at half-power, arrested in the dim early mauve of their sequence. People peered quickly at each other as they passed from shadow to shadow, in doubt, and then brief solidarity.” Later, Johnny looks out of a Chelsea window over the Thames: “Beyond the traffic, between the plane trees, lay the grey expanse of the river, the cold wellings and streakings of its currents.” Hollinghurst is so good on “the teasing oddity and secret connectedness of London life” as Johnny (and the reader) is drawn deeper and deeper into the clandestine worlds of the city.
We realise that this, like its predecessor (and, indeed, Hollinghurst’s first novel, the exquisite The Swimming Pool Library), is a story about two generations of gay men, a tale that turns on the pivot of 1967. The last two sections of the book are called Losses and Consolations, each word carrying its own ironic edge. It’s about subterranean narratives of gay life, some of which bubble to the surface, others remaining for ever concealed. We follow Johnny Sparsholt in and out of love, witness him becoming a father (he donates sperm to a lesbian friend), see him happily settled, bereaved, a successful artist, a sixtysomething adrift in the world of online dating. We watch as the scandal of the Sparsholt affair slowly fades. There’s always something elegiac about the movement of time in a Hollinghurst novel, but here it feels less bleak than the vast emptiness at the end of The Line of Beauty, the bitchy literary narrowing at the close of The Stranger’s Child.
Evert Dax’s father, AV, scarcely features in this novel, but he’s important nonetheless. He’s an “unshakably serious” author, admired without being enjoyed (even by his son). The Sparsholt Affair is a rebuke to that kind of writing. This is an unashamedly readable novel, one that goes out of its way to please; indeed it feels occasionally like Hollinghurst is trying to house all the successful elements of his previous books under the roof of one novel. It’s funnier, more warm-hearted, less waspish than any of his books so far, but still undoubtedly the work of a master.
• The Sparsholt Affair by Alan Hollinghurst is published by Picador (£20). To order a copy for £17 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

Australia likes to refer to its battlefield dead, especially in the first and second world wars, as “the fallen” whose bodies, if found, were “laid to rest” in picturesque, peaceful cemeteries of blonde statuary and rosemary bush.
Our politicians invest significantly in commemorating them (some $600m-plus alone for first world war centenary events), and into finding, identifying and reburying those whose bodies the mud may surrender many decades later.
So it is surprising to find the skull of a first world war Australian Anzac soldier, replete with the shocking facial injuries that killed him a century ago this week, featured online in an American medical museum’s grisly collection of sometimes freakish exhibits.
The skull, part of the collection of the Mütter Museum at the College of Physicians in Philadelphia, tells a shocking and tragic story of battlefield violence and intolerable physical suffering that official commemoration – with its almost ecclesiastical language of the fighting Anzac “spirit, the “fallen” and their “sacrifice” – all too often overlooks.
On 28 September 1917, the Anzac was shot in the mouth during the Battle of Polygon Wood (known also as the Third Ypres, part of the Battle of Passchendaele) in Belgium, and his right jaw destroyed by shrapnel while another bullet – still visible in his skull – struck his left sinus.
The museum’s explainer reads:
This Australian soldier’s skull has extensive damage caused by bullet wounds sustained in the Battle of Passchendale (or Third Ypres, Battle of Polygon Wood) in the First World War. He was shot on September 28, 1917. Most of the damage was caused by a lead bullet that entered the mouth and passed through the palate and right eye. Shrapnel destroyed the ascending ramus of the right jaw, and another bullet, visible here, struck the left frontal sinus.
Philadelphia opthalmologist and surgeon WT Shoemaker treated this soldier at a battlefield hospital in France. This soldier survived his initial injuries and treatments. But, five days after his injuries, blind and disoriented, he pulled out the bandage materials in his mouth that packed the wounds. He bled to death.
It says Shoemaker donated the “Adult skull with ballistic trauma” to the museum in 1917, making possible an inference, of course, that the opthalmologist removed the head from the battlefield hospital. It’s hard to imagine what, if any, consent was involved.
Click on the icon reading “OUCH” and the illustration highlights the shrapnel damage to the soldier’s jaw, or, on the one reading “THE END”, to see a close up of the hole in his cheek that had been packed with bandage. “Pulling out the material that packed this space is what killed our soldier,” it explains.
The Anzac skull certainly tells a story of a terrible battlefield death. But as is so often the way when human remains become institutional collection items, it is stripped of human identity and past beyond the moments of injury and death. It is objectified by death, not what life – rich and interesting or otherwise – preceded it.
And, so, unfortunately, we know precious little about who this Anzac is. We don’t have his name or know who his family is or where he came from. Was he Indigenous or white? Even had he contemplated dying in war (what soldier who volunteers to go off and fight does not?) could he ever have imagined that his head would become a museum collection item and an object of popular curiosity?
If the Mütter Museum knows any of this, it is not letting on.
Despite my repeated requests, the museum has not detailed how: it acquired the Australian’s head; whether the rest of his body is in the museum or buried in a war cemetery; if the museum is privy to the dead man’s identity and whether the skull has been on temporary or permanent public display.
It is, in fact, likely that the rest of the body is buried at either Polygon Wood Cemetery or the nearby Buttes New British Cemetery. In the past decade the bodies of several Anzacs who died in fighting around Polygon Wood have been unearthed on local properties. Several have been identified using DNA techniques. All have been officially re-buried with either “known unto God” headstones or memorials bearing their re-established identities.
It is understood that the Australian Army’s office of Unrecovered War Casualties – which is mandated with recovering and identifying unaccounted for military personnel, is aware of the Mütter Museum’s Anzac skull and is making inquiries, possibly through the Australian Embassy in Washington.
Mütter describes itself as “America’s finest museum of medical history” which “displays its beautifully preserved collections of anatomical specimens, models, and medical instruments in a 19th-century ‘cabinet museum’ setting. The museum helps the public understand the mysteries and beauty of the human body and to appreciate the history of diagnosis and treatment of disease”.
The Anzac skull is part of a collection that also includes “the soap lady” (a body exhumed in Philadelphia in 1875), Albert Einstein’s brain, Dr Joseph Hyrtl’s human skull collection, a plaster cast and the conjoined liver of “Siamese twins” Chang and Eng Bunker, the jaw tumour of President Grover Cleveland, and hundreds of body parts that illustrate disease and terrible war injuries.
The fourth and fifth divisions of the Australian Imperial Force suffered more than 5,700 casualties at the Battle of Polygon Wood, which began on 26 September 1917. It was the most devastating year of the war for the AIF; 12,000 Australians died in the extended battle of Passchendaele alone and 30,000, mostly on the western front, for the year.
From a population of less than 5 million in 1914, some 324,000 Australians enlisted and served overseas, and 61,720 died. Most are buried in official war graves close to the battlefields or field hospitals where they died. But tragically some 18,000 who died on the European western front were either never found or could not be identified at death.
The Anzac whose skull is displayed by Mütter would be ranked with the missing even though the museum might well be in a position to help name him due to the medical and personnel records that would have formed part of his battlefield treatment.
Meanwhile, the display of the skull is anomalous with official Australian policies to remove from public display and repatriate human remains (overwhelmingly belonging to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander ancestors) that are held by foreign collecting institutions – mostly museums and medical schools.
The National Museum of Australia has the remains of about 500 individuals that it has repatriated to Australia from foreign institutions but, for various reasons mostly to do with unestablished identity, has been unable to return to country.
The South Australian Museum, which has the largest collection of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander material culture in the world, holds the remains of several thousand Indigenous people.
The government has dedicated minimal resources and energy to the identification and repatriation of Indigenous remains, however. As Australia prepares to commemorate the AIF’s actions at Passchendaele and Polygon Wood this week, the official response to the Mütter Anzac skull display will, therefore, be most illuminating.
!!!@@@$$$

An image of a drunken Oxford party that Michael Ondaatje clipped from a magazine and stuck into a notebook would, years later, inspire a scene in The English Patient, according to the novelist’s archives, which have just been acquired by the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas at Austin.
Ondaatje, in an interview with the Center’s director Stephen Ennis, said he writes around four drafts of a book by hand before moving it on to a typewriter or computer and then “reworking it, printing it out, rewriting it by hand”.
He added: “During those early stages of handwriting the novels, I sometimes need a few visual breaks along the way. I might stick in someone’s poem fragment, just a few lines, or perhaps a stray visual image of a party at Oxford where quite a few are drunk that I came across in a magazine. There might be perhaps some subliminal influence.”
The Sri Lanka-born, Canadian writer said that particular photo inspired part of the book that was later rewritten as a scene where titular character László de Almásy imagines meeting his love interest, Katharine Clifton, when she was young, “long before he actually met her”. Ondaatje said: “When I came upon that long-ago notebook years later — that was the first time I realised and recognised its influence on a scene in The English Patient.”
Running to more than 90 boxes, Ondaatje’s archives include the dozens of handwritten notebooks that he uses to write his novels, his hard-to-decipher handwriting peppered with images he has inserted into the pages as he writes. Heavily annotated drafts and notebooks for works including The English Patient, along with novels such as his latest, 2011’s The Cat’s Table, have been collected, along with drafts for his poetry collections and correspondence with authors including Alice Munro, Margaret Atwood and John Berger.
His papers also include address books, calendars, photographs, speeches, scripts, as well as correspondence with actors Juliette Binoche, Willem Dafoe, Ralph Fiennes and Kristin Scott Thomas about the film of The English Patient.
Ennis called Ondaatje a “master stylist” in both poetry and prose. “Displaced by history, the inhabitants of [his] novels often find their most stable home in language”.
Ondaatje, whose next novel – Warlight, following two siblings in the aftermath of the blitz – was announced this week, said that his notebooks each reflect a specific stage in the making of his novels. “I always enjoy the look of these handwritten books more than a typed manuscript. Ideally I would like to publish a novel that way, but my handwriting is terrible, unreadable, even to me sometimes,” he told Ennis.
Ondaatje, who lives in Toronto, said that he chose the University of Texas for his archive following a visit to the Ransom Center. “[I] was amazed at their photography collection, then more recently I came back and was shown the literary archive, that gathering of wonders – Robert Browning’s address book, a draft of Faulkner’s Light in August, a letter from Tennyson to Whitman – who knew!”
!!!@@@$$$

Where are most British novels set? Well, the smart money would be on London. But once you get out of the capital, I’d lay a bet on Cornwall being the landscape that inspires the biggest number of fictional backdrops.
The rugged, dramatic coastline will have a lot to do with it, of course. Winston Graham’s Ross Poldark, recently seen on telly equipped with smouldering good looks and preposterous abs, would not carry half as many hearts aloft if his frequent (and, one suspects, often unnecessary) horseback gallops across the cliffs weren’t framed by the sun setting over the storm-lashed Atlantic. Daphne du Maurier has lured many a literary traveller to the county, just as Joss Merlyn and his murderous wreckers guided unwary ships on to the rocks in Jamaica Inn, or the siren call of the foreboding Manderley (in reality Du Maurier’s home Menabilly, near Fowey) in Rebecca.
With a lighter touch, Lelant native Rosamunde Pilcher’s books have painted a picture of Cornwall spanning the generations crossed by family sagas such as 1987’s The Shell Seekers, while Virginia Woolf, though not born in the county, admitted to being “incredibly and incurably romantic about Cornwall”. Her novel To the Lighthouse took as its inspiration the view from Talland House in St Ives, where Woolf holidayed as a child, whose vista opens on Godrevy Lighthouse in the bay.
But, of course, every UK county has its attendant classics. Perhaps a truer measure of how deeply a place is embedded in fiction would gauge how many contemporary novels are set in a place. By that yardstick, Cornwall is in very rude literary health. I holidayed in St Ives over the summer, and beat a path – as does anyone of taste and decency – to the St Ives Bookseller on Fore Street, the narrow, winding thoroughfare that runs behind the harbour front. In addition to the well-curated selection of commercial and literary fiction packed into its small space, it also carries a wide range of locally set fiction.
And boy, is there a lot of it. A huge amount. Liz Fenwick is the queen – or certainly one of them – of the contemporary Cornish novel: A Cornish Affair, The Cornish House, A Cornish Stranger, Under a Cornish Sky … Fenwick knows her market, and has nailed it utterly. But while Fenwick’s gathering up readers like the fishermen with their lobster pots, she’s certainly not alone. Television presenter Fern Britton has forged a new career as a purveyor of Cornish lit, including The Postcard, A Seaside Affair and A Good Catch. Similarly, fellow journalist-turned-TV presenter-turned-recommender-of-books Judy Finnigan is treading a darker coastal path, with her Cornwall-set novels, including the spooky Eloise and thriller I Do Not Sleep, wearing an appreciation of Du Maurier lightly on their sleeves.
There’s no great mystery in Cornwall’s prominence: people like to go on holiday, when they like to read, when they might enjoy the verisimilitude of a novel set nearby. And the Cornish landscape provides that beauty, that sense of myth, that romance in every sense of the word, that is just perfect as the location for any story.
But the Cornish lit trend isn’t seasonal, like ice-cream parlours or mackerel fishing. The industry keeps going throughout the year. Indeed, there are a rash of variations on the theme of “A Cornish Christmas”, proving that romance is as likely to bloom under grey skies as it is a bright Cornish summer. Indeed, a quick search for “Cornish” on Amazon brings up 40-odd titles due out between now and the onset of summer 2018, from feelgood romances to cosy crime murders to sweeping family sagas.
Publishers love a trend, of course: we saw it in the proliferation of “girl” titles two or three years ago, around Gillian Flynn’s Gone Girl and Paula Hawkins’s The Girl on the Train. “Cornish” novels might be a slightly more niche trend – but if only someone could find a way to combine the two, they’d be on to a surefire bestseller. Scone Girl, perhaps?
!!!@@@$$$

Over the course of two decades, the Marvel vs Capcom franchise has mutated into a sprawling crazy quilt of exuberant brawling. Look for a unifying theme and it seems to be loopy excess, with overflowing character rosters, screen-filling hyper combos and a fondness for mob-handed tag-team battles. “Gonna take you for a ride!” declared Marvel vs Capcom 2’s jazzy selection screen ear-worm, and if the shield-chucking, hellfire-hosing action could occasionally be chaotic to the point of confusion, it was certainly never dull.
Six years on from Ultimate Marvel vs Capcom (a buffed-up version of the third instalment that boosted its warrior headcount to an impressive 48) and here comes a new challenger. In Marvel Vs Capcom Infinite, the conflict implied in the title has become inextricable. A diabolical team-up by Marvel’s tetchy AI zealot Ultron and Mega Man’s lantern-jawed nemesis Sigma has forcibly fused the two corporate universes together, creating an uncanny hybrid dimension.
In the Saturday morning cartoon-worthy story mode, the combined villain Ultron Sigma has also unleashed a cyborg virus to assimilate all organic life, forcing Captain America, Mega Man X, Chun-Li and a dolly mixture of other pugilistic heroes to fight a desperate rearguard action. The third game’s inky art style of thick black outlines has been replaced with more of a Toys R Us aesthetic. The pool of 30 playable characters from which you select your two-person team resembles a rubbery, wipe-clean action figure line.
The revised Marvel roster mirrors the priorities of its cinematic universe, so the Infinite incarnation of Iron Man is now blatantly modelled on Robert Downey Jr’s smart-alecky show-off. Pair him with Spider-Man and he tags his partner in with a cute callback to Captain America: Civil War (“Underoos!”) Rising stars the Guardians of the Galaxy are emphatically in – Gamora is a lithe, lethal multi-weapon specialist while Rocket Raccoon can request thumping help from Groot – while X-Men and Fantastic Four-related characters, their IP currently licensed by rival studios, are demonstrably out.
Previous Marvel vs Capcom games featured an easy input mode so beginners could leapfrog ahead to spectacular special moves and finishers without having to memorise every quarter-turn and double-button press. Infinite folds this training-wheels approach into the game proper. Batter the light-punch button and you automatically unleash an eight-hit combo, while one straightforward button-press triggers a hyper combo across the entire roster. Mastering this simple repertoire means new players can select any character confident they can at least pull off the basics.
While this pivot toward accessibility does not automatically mean a lack of depth, it does inevitably flatten out Ultimate’s personality. The new infinity stone mechanic – with six selectable cosmic gems adding additional special moves – means any character can be specced with a dash, a fireball or a paralysing throw. If Ultimate Marvel vs Capcom rejoiced in the eccentricities and mismatches of its sprawling roster, Infinite seems to want to turn everyone into an all-rounder.
More seriously, after creating such an inviting on-ramp for knockabout play, Infinite whiffs its advanced schooling. After the basic tutorial, character-specific training missions jump straight from simple special move workouts to intimidatingly long input strings. For players not already fluent in the genre’s lingua franca of cross-ups and cancels, there is nothing to explain how to read or react your opponent. While this feels like a missed opportunity, what is actually unforgivable is that Infinite’s move lists are locked to characters facing right. This is irritating if you happen to jump over your opponent and want to quickly pause-check a mighty finisher. It is actively excruciating if you are locally playing as left-facing player two.
The wacky story mode is a welcome short-term diversion but Infinite really comes to life in the wild. For those rightly intimidated by online play, there is a dedicated and so far seemingly robust Beginners League to help players begin their ascent from 15th to 1st rank. But even in this nominal shallow end, ingenious beatdown specialists are already combining disparate characters and their signature movies into elaborate punishments. Jedah, the regal vampire from Darkstalkers with a diabolical arsenal of jaggy projectile attacks, is clearly an early favourite, while the option to tag in Ryu for a jumbo-sized vertical fireball seems to be a popular grace note on which to end extended combos.
These dedicated players who have already pushed past Infinite’s muddled orientation will likely elevate the game to new heights, while the emphasis on pick-up-and-play means it is also possible for dabblers to extract a lot of fun from the giddy free-for-all. But it does feel like something has been lost along the way in the push for slimmed-down accessibility. Smashing two dimensions together should be the stuff of ambitious prog-rock albums, but Infinite seems determined to steer towards the middle of the road.
Capcom; PS4 (version tested)/Xbox One/PC; £35; Pegi rating: 12+
!!!@@@$$$

God, that’s not an easy watch, the first 10 minutes or so of The Child in Time (BBC1). First, Stephen (Benedict Cumberbatch) returns home in a police car and goes inside to tell his wife, Julie (Kelly Macdonald), the worst news in the world: that their four-year-old daughter Kate has disappeared. “She was there,” he says. “She was there, she was just there, she was right there.”
Next, we’re a few years down the line. Stephen, a writer of children’s books as well as a member of a government childcare committee, is trying – inevitably not entirely successfully – to carry on with some kind of life. Without Julie, however, who, also inevitably, now lives separately. How can a marriage ever survive that? Not just the loss and the pain, but the blame and the guilt, too.
And then we go back, an hour or two before the opening scene, to the moment itself, in the supermarket. A lovely trolley zoom for Kate, down an empty aisle, then check out and distraction, wait for Daddy …
Every parent will recognise it, the where-are-they moment, the sudden blind panic, the quickening of the heart rate and tightening of the stomach that goes with it. This way? No. Over here? Faster, more and more desperate. Think! Yes, outside, always outside first because that’s the most frightening possibility, but then, when you can’t see them out there, back in, shouting and appealing for help. “Kate? Kate! Has anyone seen a little girl, a four-year-old girl, she was wearing a yellow coat, she’s called Kate ...”
And then they’re there, in the fruit aisle, eating a few sneaky grapes, or with a kindly – but ever-so-slightly disapproving – stranger, and you’re suddenly overcome with relief, and a little bit of crossness, and embarrassment, but mostly a big wave of love. Except for the one time in a million when then they’re not there, ever again, except in a vision – like the little girl in the yellow coat, Kate.
It’s not just the situation but Cumberbatch’s performance that makes it so agonising. Physically so. I felt the stress, the tightening and quickening. I felt sick. It’s a brutal portrayal of panic and guilt, and then a world falling silently apart. Brilliant by Macdonald, too, of a mother’s loss, possibly profounder still. And try as she might, she is unable not to blame him, even if she also still loves him.
All 220 pages of an Ian McEwan novel into an hour-and-a-half adaption doesn’t all go, stuff gets left out. There’s no Thatcherite backdrop here; the new PM (played by Elliot Levey) is more like an amalgam of Cameron and Blair, again soulless, and the government’s attitudes to education and children are archaic and depressing, more about discipline than development. That’s fine, it transfers, even if it lacks McEwan’s rage and is a less political thing.
Stephen’s best mate and publisher, Charles, survives the adaptation process. It’s an odd portrayal by Stephen Campbell Moore, but then odd too is Charles’s breakdown and reversion to his early years, even if it plays into the theme of childhood.
One casualty of the journey to television is Charles’s wife, Thelma. She’s still here, but just as a wife and a friend, stripped of her quantum physicist profession (that itself is a kind of step back in time, no?). With that go her theories on – and discussions with Stephen about – space and time, which, although baffling, tied in with the book’s time warps and visions. Maybe 90 minutes isn’t enough time to explore the nature and mysteries of time.
The TV drama is a simpler thing then, of course it is. But it’s still a deeply affecting portrait of loss and what that does to love. It is painful, but not entirely without hope, given time.
To Antiques Roadshow (BBC1), at Castle Howard off Brideshead Revisited and celebrating its ruby anniversary – 40 years – with emeralds. Not that this fella who brought them in knew; he thought the green stones on a gold necklace were jade. No, emeralds, says Joanna Hardy. And the pearls are freshwater baroque ones, the chain is 15-carat gold, it was made in about 1915 … yeah, all right, never mind about that, how much?
“I think, at auction,” says Joanna, “I reckon you would get around three to five … thousand pounds!”
The people who go on Antiques Roadshow aren’t allowed to be disappointed. But I am: IS THAT ALL?
!!!@@@$$$

PSVR, CCP Games, cert: 3★★★★
VR is a perfect medium for eSports, and while the likes of the excellent Starblood Arena offer immersive but fantastic shooter experiences, Sparc blurs the line with real, physical, sport activity. The game transports players into a Tron-like world of sci-fi dodgeball matches. The aim is to sling a projectile down an enclosed arena, scoring points by tagging opponents’ bodies or landing a ball in their goal, all while deflecting their attempts at doing likewise. Using two PlayStation Move controllers to throw or, using a virtual shield, deflect, forces players to evade and repel the ricocheting orbs, increasing in speed all the while. Once accustomed to the mechanics – not hard, as Sparc is smooth and intuitive – it’s a veritable workout, and a fun one. The only real caveat is a lack of single-player content, beyond a training mode and some skill challenges. However, with three online multi-player modes and a genuine air of competitiveness, it’s forgiven. Extraordinary fun. MK
Nintendo Switch, MixedBag, cert: 7★★★★
On first inspection, Forma.8 seems like a traditional platform game, sporting vast, 2D levels filled with ledges, caves and, yes, the platforms famously established by gaming icons such as Mario and Sonic. Yet venture further and the game reveals so much more. Players assume the role of a floating probe sent to a world without – at first – an explicit objective but without many abilities to call on. Far from being a minimalist experience, however, Forma.8 opens up to reveal a vast and varied exploration-based puzzle game filled with fallen companions to rescue. Flying through its world solving environmental conundrums and outwitting enemies can swing from sedate to stressful in moments, and progress comes at a magnificent pace. The quiet tone delivers a game that occasionally feels empty rather than atmospheric, but Forma.8, previously released on other platforms, remains an adventure for the Switch well worth embarking on. WF
PS4, Sony Interactive Entertainment, cert: 3★★★★
Decades of elitism and gender-bias have not done golf any favours in promoting itself as the most accessible of sports. It may not be entirely fair but converting critics to its charms is a tough old task, a role Everybody’s Golf has embraced wholeheartedly.
Now 20 years old, the series has – as the title suggests – long endeavoured to make the game as attractive to as wide an audience as possible. Fortunately, the gameplay mechanisms and rules of real golf translate superbly into video game form, and just as you don’t have to like tennis to enjoy Pong, the latest Everybody’s Golf offers an experience that should delight gamers, regardless of their perception of the real sport. The game’s greatest achievement is making the sport inclusive, rowdy and energetic. Quality course design, instinctive controls and a brilliantly diverse online offering all add up to make this one of the best golf video games. A few more single-player modes would be ideal, but overall Everybody’s Golf is a wonderful way to make a mass audience want to spoil their virtual walk. WF
!!!@@@$$$

The standing ovation began before the final blackout was over, well before the curtain call started. The audience rose like a wave and crested into cheers. The reason for it was clear: Esther Hannaford.
Hannaford plays Carole King in Beautiful, the musical about the singer’s life and work, and it’s near impossible to imagine that that this musical ever existed without her. She is a revelation: an actor who breaks your heart and mends it again in a performance that contains natural vulnerability, joy and strength. In the finale, Hannaford – as King at Carnegie Hall in 1971 – sings the titular song and in this performance, full-voiced and joyous, you feel the depth of success hard won. You don’t expect to find depth of this kind in a greatest hits show.
Beautiful is a bio-jukebox musical of the standard contemporary formula – think Jersey Boys with an exposed heart and additional warmth – and it moves, under the direction of Marc Bruni, at a reasonable clip. We meet King (born Carole Klein) at 16, on the verge of selling her first song to Don Kirshner (Mike McLeish) at 50s and 60s label Aldon Music. Before we know it, she’s pregnant to budding lyricist and would-be playwright Gerry Goffin (Josh Piterman). In a whirlwind they are married, King gives birth to her first child and the duo begin to make a name for themselves as hit-makers.
But an album as rich as 1971’s influential and best-selling Tapestry could never have been written without pain and there is plenty of it in store for King. While she and Goffin steadily build their career, he feels increasingly trapped by his family life and it’s not long before the marriage becomes an unhappy one.
These tensions are leavened at times, as they always are, by friends: in this case it’s the chic and clever lyricist Cynthia Weil (Amy Lehpamer, a musical theatre star in her own right and irresistible here) and composer Barry Mann (a charming Mat Verevis). Another Brill Building power couple, they function as a classic musical theatre secondary duo – a little more comic than usual and destined for a happy ending – and their storyline helps balance and fill out Douglas McGrath’s snappy, straightforward book. Cynthia and Barry playfully (and hungrily) compete with Carole and Gerry for No 1 hits, a win for Beautiful’s audience: we hear a wider range of pop and early rock and roll numbers from the late 1950s through to the 1970s than we often do in these types of shows.
The formula for many of these musical numbers from the King-Goffin-Weil-Mann back catalogue is the same: the songs are played in part around a piano as the writers work on them and then, in a flash of lights and a few quick changes, the groups that made the songs famous pop up to sing them in full. This repetition wears a little thin but there’s great variety in the music and the acts that materialise to dazzle us: the Drifters, the Shirelles and the Righteous Brothers make an appearance, along with Janelle Woods, Little Eva, Marilyn Ward and Neil Sedaka (Jason Arrow’s take on this cameo role is delightfully naff).
Much has been made of Beautiful’s “ethnically ambiguous” casting, particularly for the African American roles – a “problem-solver” practice of hiring performers of colour with diverse heritage for roles that specify a particular ethnic identity (not the same as the less controversial “colour-blind” casting, in which actors are cast across roles regardless of their heritage). Beautiful’s approach runs the risk of treating all non-white ethnicities as interchangeable and has caused concern within the industry. While this production may not do anything to resolve Australia’s ongoing struggles around issues of race representation on stage, this ensemble is still tremendously talented – a cast of triple threats and first-class vocalists.
Beautiful perfectly marries the both key elements of the successful jukebox musical – nostalgia and story – and it does so simply by having narrative integrity and thoughtful shape. The structure of the show is nothing radical for the genre: it doesn’t push at the boundaries or challenge the conventions of it – rather, it takes those conventions seriously, treating them as milestones of its protagonist’s journey rather than the sum of it.
In the wake of shows such as Georgy Girl, Dream Lover and even The Bodyguard – musicals that prioritise nostalgia for the hit songs over the human story at their core – it’s refreshing to come across a production that doesn’t take that emotional engagement for granted but understands the sincerity of the investment audiences make, even in a big commercial show. Beautiful is perhaps at an advantage because its emotional journey follows the evolution of King’s music but McGrath is also careful to avoid that feeling of “shoe-horning” in a popular number, or rushing past the difficult parts of a story to get to a particular song or to lift spirits. Beautiful lets its audience feel everything and it’s a great example of how satisfying this now-established bio-jukebox formula can be.
But then, Beautiful isn’t telling a big, flashy story, even though it uses the tools of one. Its modesty may well be why it works so well. Underneath all the lights and smart, era-appropriate choreography (by Josh Prince), the real story of Beautiful is a small and meaningful one: it’s about how Carole King learned to trust in her own voice. Watching Hannaford’s King claim her own agency and artistry is a subtle but rewarding triumph. There’s a welcome catharsis in her moments of self-determination and, when King finally puts her powerful voice behind her own songs, the formulaic nature of the show is easy to forget. With this cast and Hannaford, especially, at its heart, Beautiful is more than entertaining: it’s genuinely moving.
• Beautiful: The Carole King Musical is showing at Sydney’s Lyric Theatre until 21 January 2018
!!!@@@$$$

The latest dispatch from the frontline of unnecessary meetings finds Ian Fletcher deciding what to do about Ryan Chelford. Judged purely in punditry terms, the cross-dressing ex-footballer’s appearance on Match of the Day didn’t go well, but he has been trending heavily on social media where “reaction … has been almost universally divided”. David Tennant’s narration neatly skewers Auntie’s dilemma: “The problem for the BBC is that they don’t know what to do.” Jonathan Wright
Philip Larkin showed that not only was a bigot capable of poetic genius but he could also have a sideline in photography. He prefigured today’s selfies with a series of posed self-portraits, and documented his life, loves and the environs of post-second world war Hull, whose library he joined in 1955. The poet John Wedgwood Clarke visits the East Riding of Yorkshire and talks to those who knew Larkin. David Stubbs
Under-used for a long time, post-Fortitude, Richard Dormer is in danger of being over-exposed as an intense policeman with ambiguous motives. In Rellik, though, there are more serious worries. Namely, how Gabriel will track the murderer and juggle his complex personal life – all the while contending with the reversed narrative. Tonight, Gabriel looks for his daughter in the incessant rain, Asim receives a threat, and creepy Barker is in for questioning. John Robinson
One of them has a beard and it’s still impossible to tell apart twin TV doctors, Chris and Xand van Tulleken. This medical marvel, and more, will be explored in their new three-part series on human biology. The topics in this growth-themed episode range from fascinatingly fertile to deathly dull, but the brothers’ best bits are their personal reflections on adolescence: “I was probably as embarrassed by your puberty as my own,” remarks Xand/Chris. Ellen E Jones
Debut of Ken Burns and Lynn Novick’s 10-part study of the Vietnam war. It is, predictably, superb, reflecting judiciously on the resonant folly of the US’s intervention in Indochina, and including interviews with people who fought on all sides – and who opposed the war. This first episode reflects on the conflict’s gestation, as Vietnam is divided after the eviction of its French colonial overlords. Absolutely unmissable. Andrew Mueller
Taking a psychological test seems like an easier way for a celebrity to remind the world they’re here than being holed up in the Big Brother house for weeks, but what will happen once they’re under the scrutiny of a psychotherapist? Geordie Shore alumnus Charlotte Crosby, boxing promoter Kellie Maloney, Towie guru Chloe Sims and Jonathan “I’m best mates with Kim Kardashian, don’t you know?” Cheban reveal their personality traits as Lee Valls interprets their answers. Hannah Verdier
This week, Joel Dommett’s globe-trotting challenge show finds him off to Kenya to ascertain whether he’s tough enough to live the life of a Maasai tribesman. He is soon being thrashed with sticks, mocked mercilessly for his piss-poor jumping skills, and force-fed goat, while his pal Nish Kumar stands there making quips and being surplus to requirements. Though Kumar does discover that his name means “no vagina” in Swahili, so there’s that. Ben Arnold
K-19: The Widowmaker (Kathryn Bigelow, 2002) 9pm, Sky1
Another compelling thriller based on real events from the director of Detroit. This is the story of the Soviet nuclear submarine that faced meltdown in 1961 – a near-catastrophe that was kept quiet for many years by a mortified Kremlin. It starts slowly, setting up the conflict between stern commander Vostrikov (Harrison Ford) and crew’s champion Polenin (Liam Neeson), but once the boat hits trouble, tension builds fast.
WTA Tennis: Tashkent Open 6am, BT Sport 2. Day one of the women’s tournament in Uzbekistan.
SGB Premiership: Play-Offs 7.30pm, BT Sport 1. Speedway action from the second leg of the semi-finals.
Premier League Football: Arsenal v West Bromwich Albion 7pm, Sky Sports Main Event. Coverage from the Emirates Stadium as Arsenal look to build on their draw at Chelsea.
!!!@@@$$$

British national self-confidence boomed throughout the 18th century, with that familiar mix of pride and insecurity. Now, more than ever, the educated English reader needed a dictionary. In the new world of global trade and global warfare, a language that was becoming seeded throughout the first British empire required an authoritative act of definition by a vigorous and practical champion. Enter Dr Johnson.
Samuel Johnson, born in Lichfield in 1709, was a pioneer who raised common sense to heights of genius, and a man of robust popular instincts whose watchwords were clarity, precision and simplicity. The Johnson who challenged Bishop Berkeley’s solipsist theory of the nonexistence of matter by kicking a large stone (“I refute it thus”) is the same Johnson for whom language must have a daily practical use, and a ready application to the everyday world of the common man.
The would-be lexicographer signed the contract for his Dictionary with the bookseller Robert Dodsley at a breakfast held at the Golden Anchor in Holborn on 18 June 1746. He was to be paid £1,575 in instalments, and from this he took money to rent 17 Gough Square in which he set up his “dictionary workshop”.
James Boswell (No 77 in this series) described the garret where Johnson worked as “fitted up like a counting house” with a long desk at which his clerks could work standing up. Johnson himself was stationed on a rickety chair surrounded by a chaos of borrowed books. He was helped by six assistants (five of them Scots, one an expert in “low cant phrases”).
Despite his formidable reputation as a man of letters, there was something rather childish about Johnson. In his awkward, ungainly walk and unkempt appearance, he was like an overgrown boy. It is said that he loved to climb trees and roll down grassy hills. Fanny Burney (No 82 in this series), who knew him well, once wrote that “His body is in continual agitation, see-sawing up and down; his feet are never a moment quiet; and, in short, his whole person is in perpetual motion.” Overshadowing his disconcerting exuberance was a chronic depression, reminiscent of Churchill’s “black dog”, a sometimes disabling despair. He told Boswell that Robert Burton’s The Anatomy of Melancholy was “the only book that ever took him out of bed two hours sooner than he wished to rise”.
Out of this troubled psychology, masking a profound inner torment, Johnson found solace in a language that was, in its coarse complexity and comprehensive genius, the precise analogue of his character. No surprise, then, that the Dictionary would occupy almost a decade of his career.
The work was immense. Writing in some 80 large notebooks (and without a library to hand), Johnson wrote the definitions of more than 40,000 words, illustrating their many meanings with about 114,000 quotations drawn from English writing on every subject, on food, philosophy, fashion and frivolity, from Shakespeare and the Elizabethans, via Milton, to his own time. He did not, he admitted, expect to achieve complete originality. Working to a deadline, essentially on his own, he had to draw on the best of all previous dictionaries, making his work a heroic synthesis. In fact, it was very much more. Unlike his predecessors, Johnson treated English very practically, as a living language, with many different shades of meaning. He adopted his definitions on the principle of English common law – according to precedent.
With the Dictionary, the author and his subject achieved a remarkable, unfettered unanimity. Both were adaptable, populist and instinctively subversive (or, to put it another way, libertarian). As a result, in the decades after its publication, the Dictionary was not seriously rivalled until the coming of The Oxford English Dictionary (1884), by which time some of Johnson’s definitions had passed into folklore:
Lexicographer: A writer of dictionaries, a harmless drudge… Oats: A grain, which in England is generally given to horses, but in Scotland supports the people. Whigs: The name of a faction.
The distinctive wit of the Dictionary and its definitions has obscured its remarkable grace and clarity:
Heart: The muscle which by its contraction and dilation propels the blood through the course of circulation … It is supposed in popular language to be the seat sometimes of courage, sometimes of affection.
Johnson’s 12 definitions for a simple, but tricky, word like Thought display the fluency and accuracy of an exceptional intelligence:
1. The operation of the mind; the act of thinking. 2. Idea; image formed in the mind. 3. Sentiment; fancy; imagery; conceit. 4. Reflection; particular consideration. 5. Conception; preconceived notion. 6. Opinion; judgement. 7. Meditation; serious consideration. 8. Design; purpose. 9. Silent contemplation. 10. Solicitude; care; concern. 11. Expectation. 12. A small degree; a small quantity.
For all its eccentricity, this two-volume work is a masterpiece and a landmark, in Johnson’s own words, “setting the orthography, displaying the analogy, regulating the structures, and ascertaining the significations of English words”.
It was an achievement that, in Boswell’s words, “conferred stability on the language of his country”, a stability that would be invaluable in the decades to come. However, though it made Johnson famous and well esteemed, the Dictionary did not allay his incessant money troubles. By 1759 Johnson was so hard up that he was forced to dash off the potboiling fable Rasselas to pay, he said, for his mother’s funeral.
“When I took the first survey of my undertaking, I found our speech copious without order, and energetic without rules: wherever I turned my view, there was perplexity to be disentangled and confusion to be regulated; choice was to be made out of boundless variety, without any established principle of selection; adulterations were to be detected, without a settled test of purity; and modes of expression to be rejected or received, without the suffrages of any writers of classical reputation or acknowledged authority.”(From the Preface to A Dictionary of the English Language)
James Boswell: The Life of Samuel Johnson LL D (1791) Noah Webster: An American Dictionary of the English Language (1828) James Murray (ed): The Oxford English Dictionary (1884)
!!!@@@$$$

In 2003, a tunnel was discovered beneath the Feathered Serpent pyramid in the ruins of Teotihuacan, the ancient city in Mexico. Undisturbed for 1,800 years, the sealed-off passage was found to contain thousands of extraordinary treasures lying exactly where they had first been placed as ritual offerings to the gods. Items unearthed included greenstone crocodile teeth, crystals shaped into eyes, and sculptures of jaguars ready to pounce. Even more remarkable was a miniature mountainous landscape, 17 metres underground, with tiny pools of liquid mercury representing lakes. The walls of the tunnel were found to have been carefully impregnated with powdered pyrite, or fool’s gold, to give the effect in firelight of standing under a galaxy of stars.
The archaeological site, near Mexico City, is one of the largest and most important in the world, with millions of visitors every year. This was its most exciting development for decades – and the significance of these new discoveries is explored in a major exhibition opening this month at the de Young Museum in San Francisco.
Teotihuacan has long been a place of mysteries. It was the most populous city in the Americas nearly 2,000 years ago, but little is known about its language, rulers or the circumstances of its collapse, in around AD550. Its name, which means “birthplace of the gods”, was given much later by the Aztecs, who treated the ruins – including the monumental Pyramids of the Sun and Moon and the majestic Avenue of the Dead – with due reverence.
Many questions remain unanswered, but the newly discovered tunnel has led to a greater understanding of the design and mythology of Teotihuacan, which was a sacred place as well as a bustling metropolis. The de Young exhibition, as well as showcasing artworks from numerous collections, offers the latest theories about the mysteries that still surround it.
The tunnel was chanced upon by Mexican archaeologist Sergio Gómez Chávez, who, after days of heavy rain, noticed that a sinkhole – a danger to tourists – had opened up near the foot of the Feathered Serpent pyramid. He shone a torch in but could see only darkness, so tied a rope round his waist and was lowered by workers down the hole, which with surprise he realised was a perfectly cylindrical shaft.
There was, he recalls, a sharp stench that was nearly unbearable, but at the bottom he peered through a gap in the rubble to see an underground passage, evidently an ancient construction. Work proceeded cautiously: before a dig began, his team used a robot with a video camera to explore the tunnel, which turned out to be as long as a football field, passing below the nearby great plaza as well as the pyramid. “We were amazed by what no one had seen for at least 1,500 years,” says Gómez Chávez in the show’s catalogue. At one end, the passage opened out into three chambers containing riches worthy of a quest by Indiana Jones.
The vast Pyramids of the Sun and Moon are different from those of ancient Egypt, being temples rather than tombs. They are connected by the Street of the Dead as part of an urban grid, the whole pattern oriented to the movement of the sun. The city’s very design contains the idea of it being “the birthplace of the gods” – where the universe was thought to have begun. Watermarks along the walls of Gómez Chávez’s passage have proved that the huge plaza above it was deliberately flooded to create a kind of primordial sea, with pyramids as metaphorical mountains emerging from the water as at the beginning of time. Thousands of people would have witnessed ceremonies re-enacting the creation myth.
The inhabitants of the city, along with those from similar civilisations, believed the universe had three levels, connected by an axis: the celestial plane, the earthly plane and the underworld, which wasn’t the Biblical place of fiery punishment but a dark, watery realm of creation, with lakes and mountains – it signified riches and rebirth as well as death. The rich array of objects Gómez Chávez has brought up from the passage – large spiral shells, beetle wings arranged in a box, hundreds of metal spheres – was left there as treasure to appease the gods. But it also seems that the tunnel, with its pyrite galaxy and liquid mercury lakes, was itself a re-creation of the underworld.
Most remarkably, at the end of the passage Gómez Chávez’s team uncovered four greenstone statues, which are a highlight of the de Young show. They are wearing garments and beads, and their open eyes would have shone with minerals. Two were still in their original positions, leaning back and apparently gazing up at the axis where the three planes of the universe meet: these are the founding shamans of Teotihuacan, who guided pilgrims to the sacred place. They carried bundles of sacred objects used to perform magic, including pendants and pyrite mirrors, which were seen as portals to another realm.
Other major Teotihuacan discoveries from the past few decades are represented in the show. A court is now thought to have existed near the plaza, where residents would have played the Mesoamerican equivalent of racquetball. In the 1980s, evidence of human sacrifice was found inside the Feathered Serpent pyramid. More than 100 warriors, kneeling with their hands bound behind their backs, are believed to have died there. Many wore necklaces of shells carved to look like human teeth; a few were made of actual teeth. In another pyramid, copious remains of animal sacrifices have been discovered, including wolves, rattlesnakes, golden eagles and pumas.
The facade of the Feathered Serpent was designed to be fearsome, with imposing stone carvings of the warlike reptile with a headdress (similar to the Aztec god Quetzalcoatl). Rituals taking place on the temple platform, such as sacrifices, would have impressed the masses crowding below – they instilled fear, perhaps, but would also have given rise to a shared religious sensibility, a way of bringing cohesion to a large, multiethnic city.
Within the newly cleared tunnel were found huge numbers of fragments of the Storm God. Recognisable by his goggle-eyes, fangs and drops of blood, he was associated with water and fertility, as well as fire, lightning and destruction. The Storm God was the owner of the underworld’s sacred waters. At the de Young, a gallery places him alongside the Old Fire God, an elderly figure who sits cross-legged and bears a brazier atop his head. With them are the benevolent Water Goddess and the smooth-faced Maize God, the subject of the site’s famous stone masks who symbolised the life-sustaining power of the crop.
The inhabitants of Teotihuacan would have walked past thousands of square feet of bright illustrated surfaces: the site is celebrated for its red fresco murals, which decorated apartments and public spaces. There are delicate paintings of flowering trees in the exhibition and, less delicately, an image of two coyotes eviscerating a deer. Animals are everywhere in the Teotihuacan visual world – and humans often merge into creatures. One vivid mural is of an anthropomorphic feline wearing a headdress and shell necklace. Another fragment, from the Street of the Dead is a menagerie of strange mythological hybrids. Yet another shows abird armed with serpent and spear.
More workmanlike objects, such as obsidian tools and incense burners, help to elucidate the historic urban structures – including living areas differentiated according to ethnicity, employment and rank. Immigrant groups from across Mesoamerica occupied distinct neighbourhoods: in this way, the development of Teotihuacan resembled that of such modern cities as London or New York.
The exhibition ends with a marble figure from an elite residential area. Notches in its arms and legs suggest it was tied with ropes to a post, in an echo of the ritual in which a high-ranking military captive was stripped, bound and shot with arrows. But the standing figure’s particular significance lies in its connection to the demise of Teotihuacan: it was pieced together from more than 160 fragments, having been mutilated by chisels; the fragments were fire-damaged. Such iconoclasm happened at the same time as the conflagration that razed the city in the sixth century. Who was responsible and why was it done? It is uncertain: as Matthew Robb, the curator of the show, has said, Teotihuacan resists interpretation as well as attracts it. Many mysteries remain.
!!!@@@$$$

Front Row, on Radio 4, is reliable, it is competent, it is always there, just after the news and the Archers. Its presenters are interested in their subjects, and good journalists. It knows what it is; it feels comfortable in its skin. I would care if it got taken off air. One can see, then, after the demise of BBC television’s The Culture Show and Newsnight Review (each shunted around the schedules until they died of confusion) why it was chosen to form the template of a new BBC2 arts show.
But would Front Row work on TV? There was trouble before the first programme even aired on Saturday evening. Instead of giving the regular radio presenters – Kirsty Lang, Samira Ahmed and John Wilson – jobs on the telly, new anchors for the small-screen version were announced. They were to be BBC media editor Amol Rajan, radio presenter and former actor Nikki Bedi, and, weirdly, Giles Coren, not everyone’s cup of tea, a journalist noted for his newspaper restaurant reviews and for having presented The Supersizers, but having no apparent qualifications for fronting an arts show aside from once having won the bad sex award for his debut novel, Winkler. Then came an interview in the Radio Times in which Coren declared he had not been to the theatre much for the past seven years (owing to paternal bathtime duties) and found the medium “stressful”; Rajan confessed to the sin of enjoying Andrew Lloyd Webber; and Bedi said she disliked sitting through very long plays without intervals.
As indignation raged among the show’s tiny potential audience, Coren gave an interview on the radio version of Front Row to Wilson (a brilliantly self-consuming BBC ploy that could have been dreamed up by W1A’s press officer Tracey Pritchard). Instead of eating humble pie and declaring his curiosity and intention to learn, which might have been the wiser course under the circumstances, Coren declared that there was “a theatrical establishment” that was silently mind-controlling audiences to believe that “there’s only one kind of thing you ought to like and here’s how you ought to like it”. (I feel once Coren has started attending the theatre regularly, he may recognise the innate ridiculousness of the claim that the British theatre world – talented and delightful as it is in so many ways – is capable of organising a global conspiracy.)
Aside from the opportunity to look at the faces of two middle-aged men it could have been on the radio
To the show itself. There was one perfectly good thing about it: an interview with director Michael Winterbottom by Wilson, who had been allowed to appear briefly on the telly. However, aside from the opportunity to look at the faces of two middle-aged men – handsome as they may be – it could just as well have been on the radio.
Aside from a brief performance by the band Wolf Alice, the rest was a bit of a wobble. The studio set consisted of an arrangement of what looked like giant blister-packets of paracetemol in a virulent shade of purple. Coren, perhaps advisedly, largely stuck to the autocue, though that lent a certain stiffness to proceedings. There was an interview with Gilbert & George: it elicited nothing fresh about the artists. On a rather-too-small sofa sat the studio guests, writer and comedian Viv Groskop and radio DJ Nihal Arthanayake, whose job it was to have too little time to say anything interesting about quite odd subjects. (Harry Potter, good or bad? Really? The week of Simon Rattle’s blazing Stravinsky with the London Symphony Orchestra?)
Nothing seemed to matter very much. The stakes were low. There was no danger, no heat, no fire. Nothing that might force the intellect into a state of gentle strain. Heaven forfend that it might have tackled subjects that weren’t obviously “popular” – there seemed about as little chance of the TV version of the programme tackling, say, the new show at the Chisenhale Gallery in east London as flying to Mars; and there was no hint of the political and issue-based items that the radio version sometimes includes.
But somehow, on the radio, things are different: Melvyn Bragg gets to chat away with impunity about Immanuel Kant and people enjoy it. BBC2’s Front Row, judged on its first episode, feels like evidence of a massive failure of nerve, a shying-away from difficulty and risk, a pulped-down, food-processed version of the arts that lacked even the brisk, businesslike pleasures of its radio equivalent. Perhaps it will improve. Heaven knows that many a brilliant television show has had shaky early episodes. But not for the first time, I am forced to wonder: what is it about the arts that BBC TV fears so much?
!!!@@@$$$

Queen Victoria has replaced Sherlock Homes as the most featured character on British screens. According to a study by the British Film Institute, the monarch now is jointly tied with James Bond, on 25 films – thanks to Judi Dench’s turn in Victoria and Abdul. But which other enduring characters have appeared multiple times in the movies around the world?
Peter Sellers played the Pink Panther detective six times, but Clouseau has also been portrayed by Alan Arkin, Roger Moore and Steve Martin (the latter being something we would probably all rather forget). Sellers’ portrayal helped make the comically chaotic Frenchman an enduring favourite, although these days his performances look a little dated. Including animated versions, Clouseau has appeared in at least 40 films.
Eartha Kitt purred her way into popularity in the Batman TV series, followed by Julie Newmar – but it was Michelle Pfeiffer who brought her to life on film in Tim Burton’s Batman Returns. The sexy, morally ambiguous antiheroine proved to be catnip to film-makers, although Halle Berry’s standalone film was a flop before Anne Hathaway revived her in The Dark Knight Rises.
The British monarch has been appearing as a film character since 1912, appearing in a whopping total of 48 films listed on the IMDb, either taking centre stage or as part of wider historical dramas. Cate Blanchett played her beautifully in Elizabeth and Elizabeth: The Golden Age, and she will be portrayed by Margot Robbie in Mary Queen of Scots next year.
Since his debut in Marvel comics, the colonel has been astonishingly prolific, appearing in numerous series and TV movies before Samuel L Jackson was cast in the Avengers film series, giving the character a new lease of life. Definitely an improvement on the time he was played by David Hasselhoff. 2019’s Captain Marvel will be Fury’s 25th big screen outing.
The history of Jesus on film offers an interesting snapshot of cultural attitudes to religion: the 1965 movie The Greatest Story Ever Told, starring Max von Sydow, was nominated for five Oscars, while Jim Caviezel was lauded, but not garlanded with honours, for The Passion of the Christ in 2004. The anarchic 70s offered its own version in Monty Python’s Life of Brian. But then, he wasn’t the messiah: he was a very naughty boy.
!!!@@@$$$

What happened? I wish I knew for certain. What I can say is that I absolutely gave it my best shot and that I couldn’t have had a wiser team around me. When I shed a tear as I waited in line at President Trump’s inauguration, it wasn’t for me. It was also for all the people in America who would have to live with that man as their leader.
I won’t deny that the six months since I lost the election have been some of the toughest of my life. But I’ve gotten by a day at a time thanks to the love of my husband, Bill, the support of close friends, such as Sheryl Sandberg, and the knowledge that I won the popular vote. I’ve learned to concentrate on taking pleasure from the little things. Like my daily yoga practice and buying a farm in upstate New York. In particular I find alternate breathing through each nostril helps me centre myself. It sounds hard but it gets easier with practice: you breathe in through one nostril in one of your homes, then get in the car and breathe in through the other in another.
Friends have asked me why I did it, why I agreed to run for president. To tell the truth, I had no option. I knew that many people didn’t like me. And I knew that it would be hard to defend Barack Obama’s desperately poor record in office. But I had to do it. All my life I’ve never wanted to do anything other than serve my country. And be president. And in a way I am president because I did win the popular vote. Yet unfortunately, even though I won, I lost. And I take full responsibility for everything that went wrong apart from those things that were other people’s fault.
When I think back on my campaign I can’t think of anything I would have done differently apart from those things that I might have done differently. Everything from the two stylists who did my hair every morning while I was eating scrambled egg whites to ringing Bill at night to tell him how much I loved him and was grateful for his support was just perfect. We also had the best ever campaign slogan in Stronger Together. I loved that slogan because it said everything I wanted to say. Though maybe it should have been Together Stronger. Just as we are together stronger, we are also stronger together.
Now let me tell you a little bit about me. I’m a woman. I know many people found that hard to accept. But I’m proud of being a woman. More than being a woman, I am also a Mom, a wife, a daughter and a grandmother. There’s nothing I adore more than being a Mom. Apart from being a wife, a daughter and a grandmother. There’s also nothing I adore more than being a grandmother. Apart from … (can someone edit this bit for me as my stylist has just turned up).
It was an honour and privilege to serve the American people by meeting them out on the campaign trail. Perhaps I should have heeded my team’s advice and not stopped so long to talk to people. But when I see a poor black girl crying in the rain because she’s been told to wait for hours to see me, my heart just yearns to reach out.
Don’t get me wrong, I’m not blaming anyone but me for losing the presidency. Even though I did win the popular vote. Did I mention that? And yes, I can’t deny that it was a bit bone-headed of me to use my private email for state business, but it was a mistake anyone could have made if they hadn’t read the rules. Besides, none of them were in the least incriminating; 20,000 were to my assistant asking her to use the fax machine as I couldn’t cope with email. And the other 10,000 were to Bill telling him how much I loved him and that I wasn’t still angry about Monica.
Yes, losing the election was all on me. But don’t forget the Russians; they were in it up to their neck. As was James Comey the head of the FBI. But I can do no more. My race is run. All that is left to me is to gently weep bitter tears of sorrow while praying for the future of American democracy under that complete orange slimeball douchebag. Breathe in through alternate nostrils. And relax.
Digested read, digested: Shit happened.
!!!@@@$$$

The French architect Jean Nouvel has defended his Louvre museum in Abu Dhabi, a massive domed complex that opens in November, from accusations it was built by exploited and abused migrant workers.
The building opens on 11 November, 10 years after the Paris museum signed an unprecedented £663m deal to allow Abu Dhabi to use its name for 30 years and borrow 300 works from its collection.
It features a 180-metre-diameter domed roof weighing 7,000 tonnes, the same as the Eiffel Tower, and 7,850 star shapes intended to create what Nouvel described as a “rain of light”.
In an interview as the finishing touches are put to the colossal construction, the architect dismissed accusations over exploited workers as an “old question” and insisted conditions for those building the museum were better than for some employed in Europe.
“At the beginning we saw the places where the workers live and their conditions to check that it was correctly done … They have the same conditions, even better conditions, than those I see in other countries,” he said. “We checked and it was fine. We saw no problem.”
A 2015 a Human Rights Watch report suggested migrants working on the Louvre museum and neighbouring Guggenheim, part of a £18bn “cultural hub” on Saadiyat Island in Abu Dhabi, were subjected to conditions amounting to forced labour including summary arrest and deportation if they complained.
The Gulf state authorities say they have improved the rights and conditions of migrant workers, but critics such as the Gulf Labor Artist Coalition, formed by prominent international artists, say this is mostly for show.
Nouvel told the Anglo-American Press Association the museum had been designed around the local culture, climate and history as well as traditional Arabic patterns.
“I am very contextual. Architecture exists in function to its situation. A great museum for me is one that sits with the culture of the country in which it is created. I don’t think these things are interchangeable. I would not work in New York, Paris or London. Most architecture today is interchangeable; this is not.”
Nouvel said the dappled shadows created by the dome were reminders of “the souk or the light through the leaves of palm trees”.
The canopy partially covers more than 60 white buildings but is anchored at just four points, giving the impression it is floating. “It’s a neighbourhood under a kind of umbrella,” Nouvel said.
Hala Wardé, Nouvel’s partner, who has overseen the Louvre project, denied it was about bringing western culture to the Arab world, saying this was “not the spirit” of the collaboration.
“This has been about sharing culture on both sides and it has been extremely enriching on both sides,” Wardé said.
Nouvel added that the project was a “fantastic tool for the education of the younger generation” and was reminiscent of the “golden ages” enjoyed by the world’s historic cities.
“It’s like a cathedral, in that respect,” he said, adding that the Louvre Abu Dhabi was “a dialogue of civilisations … a question of universality and philosophy”.
“It’s about realising the qualities of civilisations that are not our own,” he said.
“An architect who is ambitious is not ambitious for himself but because the project is so important and the ambition is the strong will to leave the best testimony. I believe to create a museum is something very important for the evolution of conscience and the transmission of knowledge to the next generation.
“We don’t build for a person, we construct for people, for civilisations, for humanity.”
!!!@@@$$$

The occupation of the Volksbühne theatre in Berlin has been condemned as “not acceptable” by its new director, who the activists fear will take the radical venue in a more commercial direction.
The protest against the appointment of Chris Dercon, a former director of the Tate Modern in London, began on Friday and swelled over the weekend after fruitless negotiations between activists, city authorities and Dercon.
“The talks have ended for now without results,” the Volksbühne said on its Facebook page. “It remains to be seen whether rehearsals will resume on Monday.”
In a statement, Dercon and the programme director, Marietta Piekenbrock, said: “We in no way condemn the occupiers, and their social and policy issue, which are important for Berlin. But we condemn the irresponsible way in which they swooped in the building on Friday afternoon.
“In spite of their efforts, the occupiers put their concerns above the safety of our employees and their own audience. And they position themselves above our artists and their work with an unprecedented arrogance.”
Dercon and Piekenbrock said they would like to restart rehearsals for performances scheduled for November as soon as possible, but any rehearsals would clash with the occupiers’ “night-and-day events and parties”.
“This occupation is not acceptable. We ask politicians to now live up to their responsibility and take action,” they said.
The protesters, who have formed an artists’ collective called From Dust to Glitter, plan to occupy the building in east Berlin for three months while staging performances free of charge.
They held their first “assembly” on Saturday evening, urging theatre lovers to show up in force and bring supplies such as toilet paper, printers and food and drink.
The appeal was so successful that police said no more supporters could be allowed in after the building reached its maximum capacity of 500 people.
With its protest action, the collective said it wanted to “send a message against the current politics” and creeping gentrification in Germany’s capital.
Volksbühne artists have been strongly critical of Dercon, who this year replaced the renowned Frank Castorf, who led the avant garde theatre for almost 25 years.
Rebuilt after the second world war in an imposing Stalinist style, using remnants of Hitler’s destroyed chancellery, the Volksbühne (people’s stage) prides itself on caustic commentary on political and capitalist hypocrisy.
Born out of an eponymous movement with the express mission to bring art to working-class people, it continued to remain true to its vision during the theatre’s 40 years on the eastern side of the Berlin Wall.
Carstorf, a prominent theatre director as well as artistic director, was credited with turning the Volksbühne into one of Europe’s leading venues with his bold, controversial and often lengthy productions.
Dercon, whose nomination has been controversial since it was announced in 2015, will be the first non-artist to take the helm. It is not his first role in Germany, however. Before joining Tate Modern, he spent eight years in charge of Munich’s Haus der Kunst, where he won much praise.
Critics fear his tenure will herald a shift to less provocative and more commercial productions at the heavily subsidised Volksbühne.
They have also questioned whether Belgian-born Dercon can bring the radical sensibility and awareness of Berlin’s tumultuous history that is woven into the fabric of the theatre.
Last summer, about 200 people affiliated with the theatre signed an open letter warning of “the destruction of originality and obstinacy, which has gained the Volksbühne an international reputation and worldwide recognition”.
In response, an open letter in support of Dercon appeared, signed by prominent figures in the art world. It said the protests were a “concerted public circus” and called the appointment of Dercon a “bold and inspired” choice.
Seemingly undeterred by the protest, in which piles of faeces have been left outside his office on a daily basis, Dercon launched the theatre’s new season with a 12-hour dance event outside the former Tempelhof airport on 10 September.
At the time of the open letter, Dercon released a statement to say fears were unfounded.
“We are planning a programme that builds a bridge between the present and the history of theatre, and the history of the Volksbühne,” he said. “In every generation, this theatre has put a revolution on the stage, and every time the circumstances were more flexible afterwards than they were before.”
!!!@@@$$$

Northern Broadsides have made a habit of giving European classics a Yorkshire setting. So it seems fitting that Barrie Rutter’s farewell, at least on home soil, to the company he founded should be a version by Blake Morrison of Alain-René Lesage’s Turcaret.
Even if Morrison’s adaptation is unlikely to cause the offence that the original did in France in 1709, it remains a lively satire on capitalist corruption. Morrison shifts the action from Louis XIV’s Paris to a Yorkshire town in the 1920s, but the characters are still propelled by greed. Rose, a young war widow, milks a besotted bank manager, Algy, for all she can while herself being conned by a money-grubbing cousin. But loot is to this play what sex is to La Ronde, in that it forms an endless daisy chain.
Just as the supposedly upright banker is guilty of embezzlement, so the cozening cousin has a fly servant who is also out to line his pockets. Virtually the only honest character is Rose’s housekeeper who is promptly dismissed for her plain speaking.
It seems a touch harsh to single out 1920s Yorkshire as uniquely covetous and there are times when you feel that Morrison may be too much in thrall to his source: I couldn’t believe he invented a duff scene where an antiques dealer tries to take advantage of Rose’s hardship. But the play works because, in the honourable tradition of Jonson or Molière, it uses farce to point up human fallibility.
Morrison’s text also has a constant verbal vivacity – so that Algy’s claim that he runs “a tight ship” is spoonerishly inverted to “a shite tip” – and makes rich use of Yorkshire dialect in which “a cup of tea” becomes “chatter-watter”. Rutter directs and, by having characters introduce themselves with a 20s dance, suggests we are watching a piece of poison-tipped frivolity.
Sarah-Jane Potts as the pageboy-haired Rose hits the right note of demure calculation and both Jordan Metcalfe as a wily servant and Kat Rose-Martin as his cleaner girlfriend, whom he introduces as “the best scrubber in town”, make a decisive mark. Rutter himself is also excellent as the bumptious bank manager who is bent as a hairpin. When he claims “I was trained in London – they taught me everything I know,” the actor half turns to the audience as if to get his own revenge on the arts apparatchiks who have denied him the funding he desperately needs.
• At West Yorkshire Playhouse, Leeds, from 26 to 30 September. Box office: 0113 213 7700. Then touring until 2 December.
!!!@@@$$$

The London Philharmonic opened its new season with a concert performance of Oedipe, George Enescu’s only opera, first heard in Paris in 1936. It was greeted with near incomprehension in its composer’s lifetime, and it is only in the past two decades that its qualities and stature have been acknowledged. When the Royal Opera staged it last year, many considered it a lost masterpiece. I missed it on that occasion, and have yet to be fully convinced by it. The LPO’s performance, however, conducted by Vladimir Jurowski and wonderfully well cast, was a superb achievement that made the strongest possible case for the work.
Enescu’s music gets unnervingly under your skin, though it takes time to do so. The opera tells the story of Oedipus from birth to death. Edmond Fleg’s libretto draws on Sophocles’s Theban plays for the last two of its four acts, but is more discursive in its treatment of the preceding material. The stance is anti-Freudian: Oedipus’s blinding is seen as a prelude to spiritual enlightenment rather than as emblematic of the mechanics of repression, and the narrative is presented in religious, broadly theosophical terms. The dramaturgy, however, takes ages to cohere. The ritual element, essential both to classical tragedy and Enescu’s purpose, seems imposed on the action at the start rather than fully integrated. There are longueurs in the first half, and it is not until we reach Oedipus’s encounter with the Sphinx that we fully enter a soundworld at once unique and extraordinary.
Jurowski mined Enescu’s textures for all they were worth. The playing was exemplary as darkening strings and growling brass tracked Oedipe’s descent into psychological and physical darkness, and luminous woodwind marked his eventual emergence into light and spiritual understanding. The Choir of the George Enescu Philharmonic sang the difficult, all-important choruses with tremendous fervour and beauty of tone.
French bass-baritone Paul Gay, meanwhile, performed with great immediacy in the strenuous title role, pushing himself to his expressive limits to convey Oedipe’s arrogance, anguish and eventual nobility. Ruxandra Donose was his sensual yet dignified Jocaste, Christopher Purves the uppity Créon, Willard White the ferocious Tirésias. Graham Clark’s bewildered Shepherd and Felicity Palmer’s troubled Mérope were luxury casting indeed. Ildikó Komlósi, meanwhile, made an outstanding Sphinx, charismatic and sinister by turns, her every phrase fantastically coloured – a truly great artist and utterly mesmerising.
!!!@@@$$$

Fibreglass porches, panelled garage doors and uPVC sash windows have rarely been celebrated in the hallowed halls of the Royal Institute of British Architects, but then Pablo Bronstein isn’t your usual suspect for an exhibition at the Portland Place pile. “I like to think it’s a bit Christine Hamilton,” says the artist, standing in one of the rooms, wallpapered a buttercup yellow, that he has erected in the RIBA’s gallery.
A white dado rail and cornice skirt the walls of a new suite of rooms, on which his framed drawings hang like cheap prints in a mid-range hotel. “I’ve got the same wallpaper in my bathroom,” he adds, clearly taking great pleasure in foisting his cosy domestic vision on an audience more used to stroking raw concrete.
The drawings are the product of Bronstein’s obsessive survey, carried out over the last six years, into the kind of architecture that is everywhere. Hidden in plain sight on every street in the country, often built without an architect at all, it is what he terms “pseudo-Georgian”: the ubiquitous developer filler of generic boxes clad with stick-on bricks, sash windows and mansard roofs that, since the 1970s, has been used for everything from suburban housing developments to inner-city office blocks. It is so common that it has almost gone without comment, blossoming beneath our collective critical radar.
“We are reflected in the architecture we create,” writes Bronstein in his accompanying book, a sequel to his witty 2008 Guide to Postmodern Architecture in London. “The reality is that we have created much more pseudo-Georgian architecture over the last 30 years than any other kind of building. For most of us, it seems, a cheap yellow-brick facade evokes almost effortlessly a rosy everlasting British prosperity.”
His pen and ink drawings, drafted in a quaint style reminiscent of postcards from National Trust gift shops, depict a world oozing with aspiration. There are humble homes gussied up with pediments and plastic porches, as well as banal commercial apartment blocks with facades arranged in vaguely Georgian proportions. In each case, these knocked-up, off-the-peg buildings are depicted as if they are the finest works of Palladio, in prints framed by heaving ornamented swags and overwrought mouldings.
Marvel at a London Waitrose – “the pearl of Holloway Road”, according to Bronstein’s caption – with a cupola-crowned tower floating above its entrance. That oddly proportioned line of columns, running above the shopfront windows, suggest the architect once glimpsed a photograph of Vicenza, but not for long enough. Or revel in the wonders of Harrods Village in Barnes, whose improvised balconies and garages decorated with vertically laid red bricks give it “an unmistakable whiff of the favela”.
The show could be read as a snobbish parody of the tastes of middle England, but Bronstein is more nuanced. “There’s no moral judgement here,” he says. “The project might have started off from hatred, but it developed into love. I want it to be like a guidebook, encouraging people to look at this stuff more closely.”
The exhibition has a timely Brexit air about it, and it will coincide with a paid-for exhibition upstairs by the young neoclassical architect George Saumarez Smith, but that’s simply a delicious coincidence. Bronstein has been preoccupied with the domestic tastes of the aspiring middle classes ever since he was a child. He was born in Argentina, but when he was small his family moved to suburban Neasden, where he would spend happy weekends fondling the tassels in the Laura Ashley concession at the local Homebase.
By the time he was 15, his bedroom was a chintzy wonderland, its walls lovingly painted with trompe-l’oeil classical columns and adorned with candle sconce features, which he would light when family friends came to visit. “It was basically a setting for me to masturbate in,” the 40-year-old says now, with a schoolboy snigger, “but my parents’ friends always cooed dutifully at the decor.”
He remembers being dumbstruck on first encountering World of Interiors magazine in the 1980s, full of Marie Antoinette-style living rooms, and he recently achieved his lifelong ambition of making the cover of the title with a feature on his own Georgian home in London’s Bethnal Green. “I was more excited than if I’d got the cover of Art Forum,” he says, without a hint of irony.
This lifestyle marketing aspect of the pseudo-Georgian industry is exposed in fascinating detail in the RIBA show, with articles and covers from trade magazines of the 1970s and 80s charting the rise of nostalgia as a byproduct of the backlash against brutalist housing estates. “Be wise, build traditional,” advises Building magazine in 1985, beneath a photograph of a pair of Noddy-box homes on a suburban housing estate. “Georgian elegance in glass fibre,” promises another advert, in which a woman proudly shows off a dreary range of panelled front doors.
Bronstein links the pseudo-Georgian boom with the Thatcherite council house policy of right to buy and the Conservative dream of “a nation of homeowners”, seeing people’s lust for tradition in part as a result of being liberated from the hated concrete council estates. What better symbol of home than a style that evokes a cartoon drawing of a house? As Bronstein notes: “The architecture which corresponds to the purchase of a first house, and possibly the first privately owned house in the recent history of a family, should say ‘house’ loudly, clearly and economically.”
The very sobriety of Georgian architecture, meanwhile, is what has made it so commercially expedient. Flat walls of yellow brick and simple grids of windows mean it can fill any plot of land and allow for endless repetition, while the general flimsiness can be hidden behind signifiers of permanence and solidity. Its easy negotiation of building codes and its suitability to historically sensitive areas has made it indispensable to developers, too, so it’s easy to see why this often shoddily built pastiche rubbish has become so endemic.
It may well be a scourge on our cities, but Bronstein’s drawings – holding up a mirror to our national identity – do make you look again, and even spot occasional glimmers of richness in the tat. You might even end up taking pleasure in noticing how a builder used an artful splurge of mastic in the facade of a block of flats, to suggest the presence of two homes. As Bronstein says: “There is nothing more moving than to find brilliance in unexpected places.”
!!!@@@$$$

Welsh National Opera’s new season forms part of Russia 17, Wales’s arts-wide commemoration of the centenary of the Russian Revolution and, hot on the heels of Mussorgsky’s Khovanshchina at the Proms a few weeks ago, comes this revival of WNO’s 2007 production. It’s a starkly compelling reflection both on the anniversary itself and on the bloody nature of change throughout history: for what emerges is not simply a drama about Mother Russia but the tragedy that unfolds when rival factions within any nation set about each other in a way that spells fragmentation and self-destruction.
The bicentenary of the accession of Peter the Great as Tsar in 1682 was the impulse for Mussorgsky in composing the opera to his own sprawling libretto. Director David Pountney’s staging is set just after the revolution, with the strong, constructivist lines of the late Johan Engels’ design brilliantly channelling El Lissitzky and Kasimir Malevich, but the contemporary resonances are even more chilling today than a decade ago.
The biggest change is that the production is now sung in Russian with subtitles, an initial caption on the frontcloth explaining the significance of the Streltsy, the brutal and debauched militia who support the ambitions of Prince Ivan Khovansky for himself and his son Andrei. Together with the machinations of the corrupt Prince Vasily Golitsyn, former lover of the regent Sophia, and the involvement of the schismatic Orthodox sect, the Old Believers, the complexities of the plot are manifold but, thanks to the clarity of Pountney’s delineation of the different elements and Musorgsky’s artful and deeply Russian characterisations, the work’s essential intensity is always felt.
Performed in Shostakovich’s orchestration – Mussorgsky died before finishing it – the monumentality and theatricality of the concept is convincing, though the endless soul-searching of the non-historical seer, Marfa, sung by Sara Fulgoni, becomes trying, and the paradings of the similarly extraneous Persian slave, danced by Elena Thomas, also drags on. The sheer force of the WNO chorus on stage adds immeasurably to the experience, notably as the fiery Streltsy in act three and most movingly as the Old Believers, opting finally for self-immolation rather than compromise their religious principles.
Robert Hayward’s Ivan is the big vocal presence, but it is the dignified authority of Miklós Sebestyén’s performance as the believers’ leader, Dosifei, that helps carry the evening, and Simon Bailey is similarly imposing as Shaklovity. Tomáš Hanus conducts with passion.
!!!@@@$$$

When I started acting I knew nothing. It was a momentous decision to pick up the flyer for the Trainspotting audition. “Destined” is a bit of a poncy word for it, but I do think I was headed in that direction.
Swearing never came naturally to me. I got bullied in school for it. I was pinned up against the girls’ cloakroom wall while everyone chanted at me to swear. All I could come up with was “bloody”.
What looks good on a Texan film set doesn’t look good on Sauchiehall Street in Glasgow. I spent pretty much all my wages from No Country For Old Men on a pair of cowboy boots. They’re ridiculous. It’s like wearing two Christmas trees on my legs.
Watching films I’m in is always odd. It’s hard not to see my faults
I’ve never fought for anything in my life. The story that I had to fight my agent to be considered for a part in No Country For Old Men is bullshit. I just audition for parts and get them or I don’t. I’m not champing at the bit.
Watching films I’m in is always a bit odd, especially when I’m watching them for the first time with other people. It’s hard not to see my faults.
On-screen birth is laborious. I’ve had two babies in real life, and loads on screen. I had twins in some silly film that wanted to be The Girl in the Pearl Earring. It was more like The Girl in the Blue Shellsuit. But I was worried about having to do it again recently. It’s as if I have to prove myself.
I don’t know if my boys [Freddie, 9, and Theo, 4] like any films I’ve done. I took them to the Swallows and Amazons premiere in the Lake District last year. Theo didn’t understand what was happening. Whenever I was holding the baby in the film, he kept shouting: “Who’s that baby?” Then: “Where am I?” He was freaked out by the whole thing.
Everybody was super fit and healthy on T2 Trainspotting, which is remarkable, considering. Jonny [Lee Miller] and Ewan [McGregor] were running up Arthur’s Seat in Edinburgh almost daily during filming. It was very different from making the first one. Never mind hangovers on set, people were still drunk.
I’ve always been pretty self-sufficient. I never had to borrow money from my mum, even in the early days.
Boardwalk Empire was a total leap in the dark. It worked out quite well – five years is a nice amount of time. But I was in an American/HBO bubble for a wee while and I wasn’t plugged in to what was happening back here.
Because of my Celtic brogue, I do get cast as “staff” quite often. But I span the decades. I’m not always in a corset, you know.
Kelly Macdonald stars in the TV drama The Child In Time, on 24 September at 9pm on BBC1, and in Goodbye Christopher Robin, in cinemas nationwide from 29 September
!!!@@@$$$

Towards the end of last year’s election, NBC correspondent Katy Tur and her colleagues played a game no other presidential contest had inspired: name a campaign headline too crazy to be real.
“No one can do it,” she recalls in her new campaign memoir, Unbelievable. That isn’t really so surprising: on 19 October, this one was published: “Buzzfeed CEO: I Heard Ivanka Trump Talk About ‘Mulatto Cocks’.”
Tur’s subtitle is “My Front-Row Seat to the Craziest Campaign in American History”, and there is barely a page in her book that does not confirm that description. Even the briefest summary of Trump’s outrages during his 500 days on the trail is still almost entirely unbelievable:
“I’ve heard him insult a war hero, brag about grabbing women by the pussy, denigrate the judicial system, demonize immigrants, fight with the pope, doubt the democratic process, advocate torture and war crimes, tout the size of his junk in a presidential debate, trash the media, and indirectly endanger my life.”
Trump’s relentless attacks on the press in general and Tur in particular were among the most revolting aspects of a repellent campaign, and they made Tur a hero to the decent people who were familiar with her fair and thorough work. By the end of the campaign, she needed private security at all of Trump’s rallies. Everyone covering Trump at NBC was under armed protection outside the venues.
This is not normal. Nothing like it had ever happened to reporters covering any previous major party candidate for president.
The truth is, given Trump’s constant goading of his supporters against the reporters who covered him, it’s something of a miracle that Tur never suffered anything worse than spittle through a lowered van window. After all, this is a candidate who could raise the possibility of killing journalists before saying: “I’d never kill them … But I do hate them. Some of them are such lying, disgusting people.”
At that moment Tur felt like she was in the Roman Colosseum. She wondered: “When to they release the lions? What happens if someone in here can’t take a joke?”
Even after everything we have learned, some of Tur’s behind-the-scenes details remain startling. At the end of one of her first extended interviews with him, Trump explodes, and demands that she run their half-hour interview in full.
“I know what you guys do,” he said. “Deceptive editing.”
Even more surprising: afterwards, the Trump campaign emailed a statement to Chuck Todd’s show reiterating “our disappointment with the extremely negative positioning of the questions”, the network accedes to Trump’s request and runs the interview in full.
Trump alternates between trying to humiliate Tur by kissing her on the way into Morning Joe – and then bragging about it on air moments later – and attacking her in four tweets in four minutes, calling her, “3rd rate”, “incompetent” and “dishonest”.
Sometimes Tur almost inadvertently reveals the built-in shortcomings of American television journalism. One page begins with this declaration: “I need to break some news … I need to be a reporter.” Then she briskly segues to the talent which is even more important to her success: “Getting your TV face ready in the car is a skill that only years of practice can perfect … There’s nothing flattering about a fluorescent overhead and magnet-triggered mirror LEDs.”
Tur is correct in saying NBC Nightly News is “still a big deal” because it gets 8-10 million viewers a night. But she’s dreaming when she calls it “a broadcast that carries weight … It is more than that … It’s history.” As any regular viewer of that newscast knows, barely half of its nightly 22 minutes are ever devoted to anything a serious reporter would consider actual news. The rest is consumed by human interest stories and lots and lots of weather – even when there aren’t any hurricanes to report.
The razor-sharp observations of Tur’s book – Trump’s “sentences call to mind an aerial shot of a burning, derailed freight train” – are the sort of thing you hear nowadays on The Daily Show or Stephen Colbert’s Late Show and never, ever, on any of the networks’ evening news broadcasts.
The glory days of network news with Walter Cronkite and Chet Huntley and David Brinkley are now many decades behind us, along with the reliable seriousness and wit of great television correspondents like Roger Mudd, Morley Safer, Elie Abel and many more. Back then, the news was treated almost as a loss-leader by the networks, a way to maintain prestige while entertainment brought in the bucks.
But for many years now, news departments have been profit centers like every other part of the network. Tur only occasionally hints at this. For example, during one of her many feuds with Trump – and a week without any exclusive interviews with him on NBC – she becomes nervous because Trump is neglecting the Today Show and favoring ABC’s Good Morning America. The executive producer of Today assures her he doesn’t care, but it doesn’t sound like Tur believes him.
Tur never mentions the main problem with the way television covered Trump, especially at the beginning of his campaign. Producers realized right away that he was good for ratings, which meant he was good for the bottom line. The ultimate outcome may have been the same anyway, but this perception unquestionably translated into vastly more coverage for this obviously unqualified candidate than he ever deserved.
In the immortal words of CBS chairman Les Moonves at the beginning of last year, Trump’s candidacy “may not be good for America, but it’s damn good for CBS”.
Nine months into Trump’s presidency, it looks like the first half of his observation could turn out to be the understatement of the 21st century.
!!!@@@$$$

To viewers, William G Stewart, who has died aged 84, was the host of the long-running Channel 4 quiz show Fifteen to One, which had a reputation as one of the toughest on television. He was admired for his no-nonsense manner in the programme, which ran from 1988 to 2003, and where contestants tried to avoid elimination by answering general knowledge questions correctly or passing them on for others to answer. “They always thought I was like a severe teacher,” he said. “I was described as a geography master standing in front of pupils.”
However, Stewart’s background was as a producer-director of sitcoms, most successfully ITV’s Bless This House (1971-76). It was devised by the writers Vince Powell and Harry Driver as a starring vehicle for Sid James, who played the family man married to Jean (played by Diana Coupland) and facing generation gap problems with their children, Mike (Robin Stewart) and Sally (Sally Geeson, who became Stewart’s second wife).
As well as making all 65 episodes, Stewart warmed up the live studio audience with his own gags. He had previously worked behind the scenes on the BBC sitcom Hancock’s Half Hour, so knew James, Tony Hancock’s foil. However, he was concerned about the star’s apparently lacklustre performance in rehearsals. “That’s not the way I work,” James told him. “I don’t want to leave my best fight in the gym.” Stewart then discovered that he gave his all in the recording studio – and Bless This House became a phenomenal hit, attracting 20 million viewers for most of its run. Among the scriptwriters commissioned for it by Stewart was Carla Lane, who went on to create Butterflies and Bread.
Stewart was born in Lancaster, orphaned at the age of two after the deaths of his parents, and brought up in a children’s home in Sidcup, Kent. He said his only ambition as a child was to star in cowboy films. His letters to Hollywood studios were met with advice to get experience, but his early employment in “boring” office jobs after leaving Shooters Hill grammar school was a long way from the glitz and glamour of Tinseltown. He did his national service with the army in Kenya.
In 1958, Stewart headed for Southampton to join the merchant navy but was unable to do so because of an industrial dispute, so he applied for a job at Butlin’s. “I thought I’d have a great time and perhaps work in the kitchens,” he said. “But, while I was having an interview, a chap asked if I wanted to be a redcoat. He must have seen something in me.”
During a season at the Pwllheli holiday camp in north Wales, Stewart organised a talent contest won by a teenage Jimmy Tarbuck, which led the Liverpudlian to become a redcoat himself before a successful career as a stand-up comedian.
In 1959, after hearing a talk about careers in television by the producer T Leslie Jackson at the YMCA in Brixton, where he was staying at the time, Stewart successfully applied for a job at the BBC as a driver’s assistant, moving scenery from stores to studio. He worked his way up the ladder to become a director of sitcoms such as Call It What You Like and Sykes and A …, starring Eric Sykes (both 1965).
He then moved to ITV and directed The Frost Programme (1967) before both producing and directing light-entertainment series featuring Max Bygraves and Frankie Howerd, and a string of hit sitcoms. They included Father Dear Father (1968-73) and The Many Wives of Patrick (1976-78), both with Patrick Cargill, and My Name Is Harry Worth (1974), starring the standup comedian. He also produced a revival of The Rag Trade (1977-78) and was producer-director of the last two series of Love Thy Neighbour (1975-76), which was as popular as Bless This House despite its controversial content. In between, he directed the 1973 film version of Father Dear Father. Stewart then remade some of these sitcoms for audiences in Australia.
Later, with his own Regent Productions company, he produced Lady Is a Tramp (1983-84) and The Bright Side (1985) for Channel 4 before returning to ITV to make The Nineteenth Hole (1989), a golfing sitcom written by Johnny Speight and starring Sykes.
Game shows and quizzes came into Stewart’s orbit when he was sent by ITV to the US to secure the formats to Family Feud, which he himself produced as Family Fortunes from 1980 to 1983, with Bob Monkhouse presenting, and The Price Is Right (1984-88), hosted by Leslie Crowther.
While working on these, he received a letter from a former BT sales manager, John M Lewis, with the idea for a TV quiz titled Twenty to One. Stewart paid £200 for a 12-month option to develop the idea. “That £200 was the best money I’ve spent in my life,” Stewart later said. With Regent Productions, Stewart took it to Channel 4 as Fifteen to One, reworking it to have 15 contestants being whittled down to three finalists. He considered John Stapleton and Jonathan Ross for the presenter’s role, but the channel wanted him and he hosted 2,265 episodes over 35 series, with almost 34,000 contestants and 350,000 questions.
In 1998, Stewart and Regent Productions successfully sued one contestant, Trevor Montague, for appearing more than once on the show, having lied on his application form. When, in an episode two years later, Stewart gave a lengthy talk advocating the return of the Elgin marbles to Greece, Channel 4 was censured by the Independent Television Commission, the television regulator. The show was axed in 2003 but revived 10 years later, initially as a celebrity special with Adam Hills, and a year later with Sandi Toksvig replacing Stewart, who had sold the format to Fremantle Media.
He also helped to turn around the Chris Evans-presented Don’t Forget Your Toothbrush (1994-95), broadcast on Channel 4 after two failed pilots, and hosted Countdown’s 1997 Christmas special, when the hosts Richard Whiteley and Carol Vorderman turned contestants. In 2010, he claimed to have been rejected as a Strictly Come Dancing contestant for being too old to insure.
At one point in the 1960s, Stewart was secretary to the Labour MP Tom Driberg. In 2009, he made a documentary investigating allegations that Driberg, whose homosexual liaisons were known at a time when such acts were illegal, was a KGB spy.
Stewart’s first two marriages, to Audrey Harrison (1960-76) and Geeson (1976-86), ended in divorce. He is survived by his third wife, the Fifteen to One voiceover artist Laura Calland, whom he married in 1997, as well as his children, Nick, from the first marriage, Barnaby and Hayley from the second, and Isobel and Hannah from his third.
• William Gladstone Stewart, TV presenter, producer and director, born 15 July 1933; died 21 September 2017
!!!@@@$$$

‘The best place to see Spanish art in the UK,” says Xavier Bray, director of the Wallace Collection in London, “is the Bowes Museum.” This remarkable institution in Barnard Castle, County Durham, exists because of the philanthropic instincts of its founders, John and Joséphine Bowes. He was British, the illegitimate son of the third Earl of Strathmore; she was a Frenchwoman who had acted on the Paris stage. Neither lived to see the Bowes open 125 years ago, but they bequeathed some remarkable pictures to the people of north-east England.
In 1862, their art adviser Benjamin Gogué wrote to them about El Greco and Goya, saying: “I have sold several pictures by these two masters. Although these two don’t appeal to you as artists, I think you might well take one of each for your collection.” They did, and the result is that Barnard Castle has what Bray, former curator of Spanish art at the National Gallery in London, calls “easily the greatest Goya portrait in the country”, a penetratingly intimate image of the painter’s friend, the poet, lawyer and prison reformer Juan Antonio Meléndez Valdés. It also has one of the best works made by El Greco, The Tears of St Peter. This subject, showing the saint in an agony of self-loathing after betraying Christ, was one that the Cretan artist returned to several times; there are at least six versions. This, however, is “the prime original”, says Bray.
Now, for the first time, these masterpieces, alongside a small but exquisite selection of Spanish paintings also drawn from the Bowes, can be seen (free) at the Wallace Collection, where they have been liberated from the somewhat congested “salon hang” of their regular home, and allowed to star in their own small-scale drama. The show’s faintly ecclesiastical atmosphere, with its dark, moody walls and dramatic lighting, is a reminder that most of these pictures were originally made for religious contexts, and that their acquisition by the Boweses was indirectly due to the confiscation of property in 1836 from the Spanish church by the liberal government of Juan Álvarez Mendizábal.
Much of the seized art flowed into museums; some of it, like the works the Boweses acquired from the widow of a Spanish aristocrat, wound up in private hands. This suppression of the monasteries, as Bray points out, is one of the moments in history when works such as The Immaculate Conception by José Antolínez (1635-1675), a highlight of the Wallace exhibition, stop being objects of religious veneration and start being art – objects of primarily aesthetic, rather than devotional or ritual value.
If this intimate exhibition is an ensemble drama, it has a star: the El Greco. This is not the lofty Peter who sits at the right hand of God, jangling the keys to heaven, but a man who knows he has done something utterly, unspeakably terrible. A moody composition in deep blues and mustards, in which the saint’s tear-swollen eyes cast upwards towards a stormy sky, it is, says Bray, “almost abstract expressionist” in its force and abandonment of realism.
Hanging opposite it, and in complete contrast, is the Goya: the lawyer-poet is depicted with his mouth slightly open as if about to speak, a flush of pinkish veins on his cheeks. Beside it, there’s another Goya masterpiece, of a very different order. Painted a few years earlier, it shows a scene in a prison. Ghostly figures slump over their chains, or lean haggard and half naked against walls. It’s part of a series of 12 works that confront us with the ugly truths of human nature. Other subjects include a madhouse, a bullfight, a fire in a theatre, and bandits shooting travellers.
Despite the element of reportage, though, the work has an intriguing relationship to realism. The light source is a blindingly white archway at the back of the scene that appears to have nothing to do with the architecture of an actual prison. It’s reminiscent of the strange light-flooded window in another Goya that hangs in Valencia Cathedral, in which St Francis Borgia prays at the deathbed of an impenitent sinner who is about to be consumed by an array of ravening, grotesque beasts from hell. For Goya, these little pieces on tinplate were the beginning of a stream of work that would lead to his dark, satirical and fantastical Caprichos prints – and, ultimately, to the great desolation of the Black Paintings of his later life.
One of the pleasures of the exhibition is the work by less well-known Spanish artists. Aside from the sensuous Immaculate Conception by Antolínez, with its Virgin reminiscent of a Venus rising from the waves, there is an intriguing full-length painting of St Eustochium by Juan de Valdés Leal (1622-1690), which once hung in a Hieronymite monastery in Seville. St Eustochium, daughter of a Roman senator, was a learned figure of the fourth century who read Latin, Greek and Hebrew, and assisted St Jerome in his translation of the Bible into Latin. St Jerome himself – a favourite subject for religious painters, with his friendly lion and his hermit’s cave – is here for once relegated to a little scene in the background and St Eustochium (scholar, housekeeper and nun) made the star. There’s also Antonio de Pereda’s Tobias Restoring His Father’s Sight, illustrating an episode from the apocryphal Book of Tobit. Tobias, according to the instructions of the angel in the foreground looking directly at us, beckoning us into the picture, is treating his father’s blinded eyes with the gall of the fish that lies on the ground, gutted. It’s a particularly splendid fish, since De Pereda, barely known in this country, was a particularly splendid painter of still lifes.
If there is a common thread among these works, so fortuitously amassed by the Boweses, it is their immediacy: even the artichokes, lemons and grapes in the two still lifes glow from their dark backgrounds with an almost terrifying intensity. St Francis levitates into a moody sky, his bloodshot eyes full of his ecstatic devotion to his God. Queen Mariana – that same queen, now much older, whose reflection glows in the mirror in Velázquez’s Las Meninas – gazes glumly out of Claudio Coello’s portrait from the 1680s-90s. St Andrew, in a work by El Greco’s pupil Luis Tristán de Escamilla (c1585-1624), goes to his death on an X-shaped cross amid a shadowy landscape, his flesh whitened as if by a flashbulb, for God has sent a blinding light to illuminate his last moments.
In their anguish and ecstasy, these are works that reel you in and implicate you in their dark, ferocious dramas.
• At the Wallace Collection, London, 27 September to 7 January. Details: 020-7563 9500.
!!!@@@$$$

The famed former Greek finance minister has an 11-year-old daughter, Xenia, in Australia. Knowing she will have learned about the indigenous inhabitants of that continent, he starts this paternal polemic on capitalism by twisting a familiar fact, asking why Aboriginal Australians didn’t invade Britain.
This sets the tone for a provocative, challenging, yet non-patronising analysis of the global economy: what it is, how it came to be and why it can never be apolitical. By using ancient myths, contemporary culture and family stories, Varoufakis makes the text intimate and accessible.
He may be one of our most celebrated economists, but he pulls no punches for fellow practitioners of the “gloomy science”, likening them to astrologers claiming to be astronomers. Concerned about our increasingly automated future, he encourages his child to make up her own mind. His advice, for all its imperfections, favours a Greek invention: democracy.
• Talking to My Daughter About the Economy by Yanis Varoufakis is published by Bodley Head (£14.99). To order a copy for £10.49 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

When I speak to Zoe Quinn, she’s worried.
The game developer is in Los Angeles for the west coast leg of her book tour, but she’s just had a serious threat made against her, directed at her next tour stop. She has to decide what to do. This comes on the heels of an appearance at New York’s historic bookstore the Strand, where Quinn gamely handled a man who jeered at her from the audience.
“He had to take the elevator three floors up to get to the event, and he didn’t realize he had to take the elevator back down,” Quinn tells me. Her heckler was stuck riding with Quinn’s fans and supporters.
Such is the life of a woman trying to take down online abusers.
Quinn’s book, the newly released Crash Override: How Gamergate (Nearly) Destroyed My Life and How We Can Win the Fight Against Online Hate, outlines how an act of domestic abuse by a former partner became a cultural phenomenon and put her on the run – literally.
In 2014, a man Quinn used to date published a nearly 10,000-word manifesto online designed to do as much damage possible to Quinn’s reputation while riling up an online mob. He made baseless claims about her sex life and relationships, and falsely accused her of having a relationship with a video game journalist for good reviews of her own games.
Before long, Quinn was fielding rape and death threats, was being doxxed, and people were even hacking into her voicemail. Someone changed her Wikipedia page to read that she died on 13 October, the date of her next speaking appearance.
Gamergate, as we now know it, was born. It was stalking gone viral.
Despite Quinn’s reservations about the criminal justice system, she went to law enforcement – at the very least to start a paper trail. But the police weren’t equipped to handle online abuse and threats.
“You need to put more personal information about yourself on the police report,” Quinn says. “So if you haven’t been doxxed yet, that’s a really easy way to be doxxed because police reports are public records.”
Quinn showed up with a zip drive, but the police didn’t know what to do with it. They wanted everything printed, even though some of the evidence Quinn was bringing them consisted of audio and video files. She did her best, though, and broke her friend’s printer in the process from overuse. There were also jurisdictional issues – where do you report a crime that happened online? – and the often impossible task of finding someone using just their username.
Quinn also says that the only reason she was able to navigate all of this was that she had pro bono help; the paperwork in itself is a full-time job. Someone with fewer connections or a smaller profile than Quinn would almost certainly not be able to do all the work involved in reporting extensive online harassment.
Still, it’s not as if the harassment ever really went away. Years later, Quinn still gets abuse.
To critics or novices who would offer that Quinn should simply get offline, shut the computer, log off Twitter – she points out that’s not really an option.
“I’m an independent game developer – there’s not exactly an offline version of that,” she says. “This is where my community is; everybody I’m close to I know because of the internet.”
Besides, the internet is the new public square. In the same way we wouldn’t expect a woman to prevent street harassment by never leaving her house, we cannot advise people to prevent online threats by just staying offline. And, really, Quinn says, do we want to just give it up?
“If that’s the solution to online abuse, what we’re saying is that we’re going to cede the internet to whoever screams the loudest at the most people, and just hand over this amazing technological achievement to the nastiest people,” she says.
And the truth of it is that today, online abuse and offline abuse meld together. Consider the threat to Quinn’s book event – the heckler yelling out at her from the back of of her New York talk. And with the rise of Donald Trump, a lot of the same people who used to spew vile racist and sexist threats anonymously on the internet feel emboldened to voice their hate openly. There is a reason many “alt-right” protesters are organizing online and showing up to events waving signs based on internet memes.
Quinn sees a connection too, between Gamergate and Trump’s online grassroots supporters.
“In terms of where the fake news was coming from and the infrastructure that was being used to propagate and spread stuff virally, a lot of it did come from the same people who were responsible for what happened to me,” she says. Quinn brings up the fact that Breitbart had her name as a keyword and art depicting her on the site.
Quinn’s critics see women like her in gaming and in online spaces – those who’d like to change the industry and online spaces to be less abusive – and believe their work amounts to infringement of free speech. As if a constant barrage of threats and abuse is simply an opinion they have every right to share.
But as Quinn writes in her book: “What about my father’s home address was an opinion?” This wasn’t free speech, but targeted silencing of Quinn.
A big theme of Quinn’s book is resilience – which makes sense, given how much she’s been through since the day her ex published his stalker manifesto online.
That’s why it’s so important that Quinn doesn’t just write about the difficulty of her situation, but also of others’. Marginalized communities – especially women of color, as well as LGBT community members – are more likely to be harassed online, and Quinn wants to make sure solutions are being offered as a way forward.
Since Gamergate, Quinn has continued to develop games and has launched an organization, also called Crash Override, to help victims of online abuse. She wants people to know the steps they can take to protect themselves online, but also ways they can help others who are being targeted.
!!!@@@$$$

If there were any doubts that romantic bliss might have dulled Simon Amstell’s neurotic edge, they’re allayed in the opening seconds of the first night of his new tour. He may be six years into a relationship, have just published his first book and made a splash with the recent TV mockumentary Carnage. But he still can’t help telling us – it’s the first thing he says – how undermined he feels by a single empty seat on the front row. Plus ca change, plus c’est le meme angst-ridden Amstell, laying bare his overthought emotional life in the name of our entertainment.
The new show is called What Is This?, with emphasis firmly on the middle word. The “this” is life, that mysterious thing Amstell can’t bring himself to just get on with like everyone else. After all: why? OK, so he’s not as riddled with self-loathing as he once was. Back then, he could barely get out of bed; now, “I get out of bed, but I don’t know why I’ve done it.” Existential angst, or wealthy man’s privilege? A bit of both. Amstell doesn’t remotely apologise for being famous – one droll gag finds him repaying his mum for the use of her womb by introducing her to Derren Brown. But it’s clear celebrity is just one more circle of alienation for a man whose every social interaction feels like an out-of-body experience.
It’s heartwarming to hear of his newfound happiness: he’s touching about the relationship here, as he traces his experience of learning to love and be loved. But, in the same way that he once addressed unhappiness with bewildered detachment, so, too, contentment is just something else to observe and analyse. That’s the stuff of the show’s final third, as Amstell shares his own and his partner’s unconventional rules on fidelity, and how several recent party experiences have scrambled his boundaries, and his sense of how lustily we all ought to be handling one another.
But most of What Is This? is retrospective. For the first time, Amstell tells his coming out story on stage – not only the telling-the-parents moment, but the several-year process of self-acceptance that preceded (and followed) it. Casting himself as comically naive and vulnerable, even in the early years of his celebrity, he recounts two experimental solo trips – to Paris, aged 18, then Miami at 21 – both tending to the irresistible conclusion: “Oh yes: gay.” But his family try to talk – or shock – him out of it, and their disapproval, internalised, proves hard to live down.
The middle section describes how he does so, as therapy and bitter experience teach Amstell that his dad isn’t an ogre, but “just a man, who doesn’t know what he is doing”. I’d have enjoyed this routine more if I hadn’t read it word for word in the previous weekend’s Guardian. Amstell starts the show with a joke about the deal he struck to publish transcripts of his live comedy. “Who for?,” he marvels, to which (now I know it includes new material as well as old) I can volunteer the answer: anyone who’d just love to know all the punchlines before they watch Amstell’s brand new show.
But it takes more than spoilers to spoil What is This?: a lovely hour that strikes a beautiful balance between perky and pained, anxious and ironic. Occasionally, justifying a laugh-free moment, he’ll claim he’s not trying to be funny, just wise. The best of his material – and there’s a real sense, early in the tour, that Amstell is enjoying delivering it – manages to be both at the same time.
!!!@@@$$$

A long-lost portrait of perhaps one of the most famous gay men in history by the Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens has been found in Glasgow.
The portrait showing George Villiers, the first Duke of Buckingham, thought to have been James VI and I’s lover, had been hanging in a National Trust for Scotland property and was believed to be a copy of the lost original, which had been missing for almost 400 years.
The masterpiece was spotted in the gallery of Pollok House by Dr Bendor Grosvenor from BBC4’s Britain’s Lost Masterpieces, who suspected that it could be the real deal.
The painting is the subject of an episode of the TV programme on Wednesday, which will show how layers of dirt and overpainting obscured Rubens’s trademark techniques.
Rubens, a pioneer of the Flemish Baroque tradition, is considered one of the most influential painters in history and his work is worth millions.
Conservation work carried out by the art restorer Simon Gillespie has returned the portrait, which belongs to Glasgow Museums, to its original state.
This allowed for a new assessment of its attribution and the painting was authenticated as a Rubens by Ben van Beneden, the director of the Rubenshuis in Antwerp.
A range of techniques were used in the process including dendrochronology – examining the tree rings of wood to date it – which showed that the panel on which the portrait was painted was likely to have been created in the early 1620s. It was also found to have been prepared in the manner used in Rubens’s studio.
An analysis of the alterations through cleaning and x-ray demonstrated that the painting could not be a copy, but was Rubens’s lost masterpiece.
Beneden concluded that the portrait was a “rare addition to Rubens’s portrait oeuvre, showing how he approached the genre”.
Grosvenor saw the painting while visiting the stately home with his wife and daughter “as regular punters”.
The self-confessed Rubens anorak said: “There was this painting further up by the fireplace and it sounds rather silly to say it, but it was a bit of a eureka moment and I thought: ‘My god, that looks like a Rubens.’ This picture just seemed to shine out.”
He returned the next day with a pair of binoculars and the following day with a ladder. “It wasn’t until we peeled it all back that we could be really sure. It’s one thing for an optimist like me to have a hunch, but quite another to prove it,” Grosvenor said.
The process took two months in total. “Our restorer, Simon, is a wizard at these things. I don’t mind admitting that I get rather emotional when you see the layers being peeled back and you begin to be one of the first people to see it how Rubens intended,” he said.
The portrait is a study for a larger painting. “It’s just a sketch, but in the 18th and 19th century, unfinished work wasn’t as appreciated as it is today, so you get a lot of pictures which are finished off by later artists. So this was tidied up by someone and as a result, it began to look very stiff and more like a copy,” he said.
The final painting was destroyed in a fire in 1949, so it is very fortunate to have found this version, Grosvenor said.
Although the Duke of Buckingham’s personal relationship with James VI and I is much debated, the king referred to Buckingham as his husband, and their relationship scandalised the court. In 1628, the duke was assassinated at the age of 35, three years after James died.
It was known that Rubens had painted a portrait of Buckingham in about 1625, but the work had been regarded as lost by art historians for almost 400 years.
Grosvenor said: “The chance to discover a portrait of such a pivotal figure in British history by one of the greatest artists who ever lived has been thrillingly exciting.
“I hope it inspires many people to visit Glasgow’s museums, some of the finest in the country. ”
The rediscovered Rubens painting will go on display at Glasgow Museums’ flagship gallery, Kelvingrove, on Thursday, after the BBC4 programme has aired.
David McDonald, the chair of Glasgow Life, which runs the museums service, said: “Unsurprisingly, we are beyond delighted to discover the painting is by Rubens, an artist renowned globally as one of the most important painters in history.”
McDonald said Glasgow was proud of its extensive art collection and it had been a joy to work with the TV programme.
“We are excited to give as many people as possible the opportunity to see Rubens’s masterpiece in person,” he said. “George Villiers is sure to become one of the undoubted highlights of any visit to Kelvingrove.”
Karen Cornfield, the property manager for Pollok House, said it was exciting news for Glasgow. “We hope the programme will encourage visitors to come to Pollok, explore the collection and learn more about the family who brought so many great artworks to Glasgow,” she said.
!!!@@@$$$

Born in Halifax, West Yorkshire, Christopher Bailey graduated from the Royal College of Art with a master’s degree in 1994. After stints as a womenswear designer at Donna Karan and Gucci, he joined Burberry in 2001 as design director. In 2009, he became chief creative officer and from 2014 to July 2017 was also Burberry’s CEO; since July, he has had a dual role as chief creative officer and president. In 2009, Bailey was awarded an MBE, in 2013 an honorary doctorate and in 2014 was named GQ’s designer of the year. Here We Are, a photography exhibition about 20th-century British life, curated by Bailey and writer Lucy Kumara Moore, is at Old Sessions House, London EC1 until 1 October.
I am currently dipping in and out of Alan Bennett’s diaries, which I love. Bennett’s Yorkshire-ness is so evident in his writing and feels very familiar and personal to me. He has such a wonderful, distinctive voice and it seems impossible to read any of his work without hearing it. This book in particular feels the most revealing about the way he thinks and sees the world: it’s frank, candid, disarming and brilliantly funny in places.
One of my favourite ever films is Educating Rita – so brilliantly acted by Julie Walters and Michael Caine. It’s a magnificent portrayal of human beings navigating the complexities of perception, class and expectations – uplifting, hopeful and optimistic but also tragic and depressing. Another film that has stayed with me more recently is Lion – it’s tender and tragic and extraordinary on so many levels. It’s wonderful to see a film capture human emotions with such grace and power. Each of the actors in the film was exceptional, but Dev Patel and Sunny Pawar were out of this world. It was very moving watching Dev play such a complex part with such visceral sensitivity and unbelievable to see an eight-year-old give such a sophisticated, layered and passionate performance.
I have a fairly eclectic taste with music. This is reflected in my first experiences of live music: the very first concert I went to as a kid was Bob Dylan and I shall be a lifelong fan; the second was the Gypsy Kings. Right now, I love what Loyle Carner is doing – I love the honesty, the grittiness and the heart that he puts into his music. He feels like a breath of fresh air and the emotions feel so authentic to who he is and the experiences he has had. When he welcomed his mum on stage at Glastonbury I thought it was an incredibly beautiful and tender moment.
I was blown away by this. It is so powerful and beautifully shot, depicting a world that seems impossible to imagine yet also unbelievably, eerily possible. We were hooked from the opening scene. I had the pleasure of watching Elisabeth Moss a few years ago in London in an incredible production called The Children’s Hour; both she and Keira Knightley were completely outstanding. I am so delighted to see Elisabeth recognised at the Emmys a few days ago – she is a real talent.
It is always an absolute treat and privilege to eat here. The team that the brilliantly clever and lovely Ruthie Rogers (and Rose Gray) have built are like a family welcoming you into their home. The food is consistently delicious and the warm, unstuffy atmosphere is the perfect place for big family-and-friends dinners or a romantic supper for two. I have lots of favourites when I’m there, and am always excited to see their drink of the day. They also do an incredible stinco di vitello (veal shank) and the sorbets are out of this world. It is authentic to the core. And if you’re really, really lucky, you might even see Ruthie’s husband – the titan of architecture, Richard Rogers.
I have always been a huge admirer of David Hockney, having grown up around Salts Mill in Yorkshire, which has one of my favourite permanent collections of his. So when his latest major retrospective opened earlier this year next door to our design studios, at Tate Britain, I was overjoyed. It was incredible – completely different to the epic show A Bigger Picture at the Royal Academy in 2012 but equally powerful and special. It is spectacular to see Hockney’s creativity and curious mind, and I get the same thrill seeing his work today as I did when I first discovered it as a kid in Yorkshire. I’m hoping to get to see the show in Paris at the Pompidou – I am desperate to see his series of self-portraits.
I recently saw this at the Gielgud and it is one of the most powerful plays I have seen. I was slightly intimidated at the thought of sitting there for three and a half hours, but the second it started those hours disappeared with hardly a blink. The story of the Troubles in Northern Ireland is dealt with in such a real and passionate way and the actors were so extraordinary. It felt like a real privilege to live in London and to see such brilliantly bold, creative theatre.
!!!@@@$$$

In the perfectly paced, middle-aged, middle-class drama that completes Jeffrey Eugenides’s first collection of short stories, a famous physics professor “watches his life implode” after an ill-advised one-night stand with a high school student who has a trick up her sleeve. We’ve already been treated to a country music radio consultant with a restraining order against his family, and a music teacher about to get a visit from the bailiff for defaulting on the payments for his clavichord. It’s fair to say that, in Fresh Complaint, men are well intentioned enough, but also pathetic and faintly absurd.
There are plenty of women in these stories, written over the past 22 years, but Eugenides is particularly adept at piercing the darker, unsaid inner thoughts of husbands and fathers. Charlie is, as he freely admits in Find the Bad Guy, a “defective husband” to a woman who only married him for a green card. He works out – too late – the key to a good relationship. “At breakfast you pass the jam. You ask: ‘How was your day?’ and pretend to care. Stuff like that really works.”
It’s this kind of enjoyable wry wit that makes Fresh Complaint so entertaining. There are probably a few too many occasions when ostensibly comfortable, middle-class lives are thrown into crisis by bad choices, provoked by money or sex – moments when you want to tell these people to grow up. But maybe that’s Eugenides’s point. They can’t.
So when the author ventures out of such safe ground, more interesting things happen. Air Mail was selected by editor E Annie Proulx for The Best American Short Stories collection back in 1997, and while it has aged well – the gap year protagonist, Mitchell, writes tortuously overthought letters to his parents back home rather than FaceTiming them – it must be the only story to begin with a detailed description of the horrors of dysentery (“with a series of shudders, it dropped, and he exploded into water”) and end with homespun enlightenment.
Dedicated Eugenides watchers will recognise Mitchell from The Marriage Plot, and some of the problems with that 2011 novel have their genesis here: you can’t tell whether the author is mocking Mitchell’s new age ramblings or sympathising with them. There are also seeds of 2002’s Middlesex in the brilliantly titled The Oracular Vulva, from 1999: both explore intersexual characteristics, in this case in the depths of the jungle where a researcher is trying not to submit to the local custom – being pleasured by young boys.
All of which is positively middle-of-the-road compared with Baster, in which a fortysomething television producer desperate for a child holds a house party to collect the semen of men on a pre-selected list. But in the amplified craziness there’s genuine sadness, also explored in the book’s opening tale of a lonely 88-year-old woman sliding into dementia and taken out of her care home by a well-meaning younger woman (divorced, naturally) on a Thelma & Louise-style road trip.
The story ends – and the overall impression of Eugenides the short story writer is that he’s a fine exponent of the satisfying denouement – with the heartbreaking “Keep going. Maybe she’d meet someone out there, maybe she wouldn’t. A friend.” Fresh Complaint is a bit like that – fleeting visits from characters with whom you’d like to spend a little time. But not too much.
• Fresh Complaint by Jeffrey Eugenides is published by 4th Estate (£16.99). To order a copy for £14.44 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

I n a tranquil corner of Preston, Lancashire, there is a modest Georgian terrace with a handsome park below it and a river – the Ribble – running alongside it. It is here that the artist Lubaina Himid has lived for more than 20 years. She is, at 63, being celebrated as the oldest Turner prize nominee since the prize, in a belatedly sensible move, changed its rules – the cut-off point used to be 50. But age, it will turn out, is the least interesting thing about Himid – whose work has originality, political drive and youthful verve. And besides, in a year of cosmopolitan Turner prize nominees, with artists with roots in Palestine, Germany and the Caribbean, she is not the only artist over 50. What is far more significant is that she has been, art critics seem to agree, inexplicably undervalued throughout her career. Now, for what it is worth, she is also the bookies’ favourite to win. It would seem that her moment has – at last – come and I can’t wait to meet her, having fallen in love with the work I have already seen.
On either side of the front path, topiaried box shapes stand guard, leading to a pale yellow front door. This is a long way from Zanzibar, I reflect, where she was born. I ring the bell and Himid appears at the front door with a lovely, welcoming smile: mannishly dressed with chic specs and with just the tiniest touch of Mrs Tiggy Winkle about the intensity of her stance, although her clothes are cooler: caramel coloured brogues, gorgeous blue shirt, smart trousers. She is professor of contemporary art at the University of Central Lancashire and, while making tea, explains how much she loves her job, learning something new, every day, from her students – living proof that teaching need not inhibit creativity. She is a Preston devotee, too, singing the praises of its art gallery and green spaces, although, at one point, she volunteers that Preston, as a city, is “not quite sure of itself”. The lack of sureness – the absence of swank – is not unlike Himid herself. She brims with ideas but is never pushy in expressing them. And beyond the small talk, her feelings about the city count, if only because one of the greatest preoccupations of her work is what it means to belong.
I was bowled over, I tell her, by her show Warp and Weft (ends 1 October) at Colchester’s Firstsite gallery – a selection of work from Invisible Strategies at Modern Art Oxford, and Navigation Charts at Spike Island in Bristol, the shows that earned her the Turner prize nomination. You walk into the exhibition space – and stop short. The room is full of people, a painted crowd. You stroll among her figures as you might between trees. The piece is Naming the Money (2004) and the figures taller than I am (I’m 5ft 5in), painted on flat wood like exuberant scenery. Turbaned, dressed in glorious colours, they have a splendour that’s complicated for these are slaves from the royal courts of 18th-century Europe.
Each figure, imagined by Himid, has two names – a birth name and a name imposed by an 18th-century slave-owner. They form five groups: herbalists, artists, musicians, dog-trainers and map-makers. She has made 100 of them (70 lodge in Colchester). What is striking is the contrast between their animation and their perfect stillness in the moment Himid has made for them – one has a dog, in harlequin costume jumping up, another a yellow pail of paint brushes ready for use, another is poised to play a drum. As you consider them, you listen to a soundtrack, in Himid’s gentle speaking voice, an account of who each person was and who they have become, a repeated transformation of each renamed slave – a mix of melancholy, idiosyncrasy and pride.
“My name is Penda
They call me Polly
I used to paint the shields
Now I wash the floors
But I have the patterns.”
Having the patterns is essential to Himid’s work. I look at a slave, in a double-breasted jacket with little yellow swirls down his left side and asymmetrical tights – the patterning jauntily indestructible. “I made the figures, wrote the texts, then matched text to figures.” Match-making? “Absolutely – my work is about brokering.”
It is unusual, I say, to see slavery approached in such a festive way – I find the affirmation moving. Why such exuberance?
“If you walk through the markets of Accra, or south London, you’ll be walking among hundreds of exuberant people of the world, yet many are descendants of slaves. You go to a Jewish wedding and the people survive, understand, carry their history. They are stronger than history, that is the point. My figures say: ‘You tell me your story, I’ll tell you mine.’”
Each figure “makes the most enormous effort, as most of us probably do – women more than men – to make the very best of where we find ourselves”. She made the piece at a time when, in her own life, she was starting to understand how “useful and enriching it was, every day, to try to make that day work”.
“I’m not in the business of making work where I repeat the trauma. My work is about attempting to belong, about understanding who we are as black people in the diaspora, how much we have contributed across Europe in terms of culture, building, the wealth of the European machine. Never mind the American machine, that’s a whole other story. My work is a kind of handbook – I think of it as a sort of car manual – to deal with the ghosts of what has happened.”
Himid belongs to what Felix Petty in i-D magazine recently described as the “generation of émigrés, immigrants and refugees” who have formed a “vital part of Britain’s multicultural postwar story; leaving an indelible mark upon our island”. In a recent interview, she touched on the subject of refugees in connection with her work – could she expand on this?
For me, there will always be a struggle with belonging, although the advantages outweigh the disadvantages
“We have an easy, lazy way of saying ‘refugees’. I think about people being actual people – each one born out of someone’s womb. So if you were to say, off the boat today came Mohammed or David or John and then added that, before they left, they were a carpenter, a doctor, a teacher… it is then they would start to breathe.” She sees “refugees” as a lifeless term: “We must not do this distancing – we are none of us more important than others.”
In the 80s, Himid was one of the pioneers of the British black arts movement. How much has changed since then?
“What has changed radically is that in terms of the media, television, advertisements, films, newspapers and magazines, black people, in the 80s, were totally invisible. The only way you could see yourself was by looking in the mirror. So making ourselves visible was the purpose of our work.”
At Battersea Arts Centre, she organised the work of other black artists and aimed to show young people that being creative was powerful. She also wanted “everyone we knew to understand that, if you paid your taxes, you owned everything in the damned museum. Lots of people still don’t understand that. We wanted to encourage conversations, about politics, beauty, expertise, in places that were as free as being in the street. Black people want to have those conversations too.”
A piece made during this period, to be included in the Turner prize show, is a cut-out pastiche of Hogarth’s satirical series of paintings about a dissolute English upper class, Marriage A-la-Mode (1743). A Fashionable Marriage (1986) dramatises racial politics: “It is the countess’s morning levee after she has slept with her lover, the lawyer. She has a castrato singing, her hairdresser, a young girl and two black servants listening. They are all disguising the fact she is making another arrangement to see her lover while the count is away. In my cut-out installation, she is Mrs Thatcher, her lover Ronald Reagan, the people are mostly from the art world: the critic, the dealer, 1980s artists, eager feminists…” A virtuoso piece, it is brazen in its details. Not far from the bride is written: “The white of a plot.”
It is not that Himid now thinks black invisibility is a non-issue. Far from it. But she says: “What I am trying to do now is tell more subtle stories about what it means to have ghosts and traces of crimes coursing through every day and to show it is somehow possible to make a decent life nonetheless.” Her newest work, which will be displayed in the Turner prize show, is Le Rodeur: The Lock. “Rodeur” (“stalker”) is the name of a slave ship that set sail for Guadeloupe from the Bight of Biafra in 1819, carrying 22 crew and 162 slaves. Her work is about the “traces of a terrible incident” in which everybody, with one exception, went blind (an eye disease that spread like fire). The captain, in hope of insurance compensation, threw 36 stricken slaves overboard. The story is taken from an economic historian’s report. “When they arrived in Guadeloupe, indigenous people offered them herbs. Some got their sight back but many Africans were lost.”
What moments do her paintings describe? “They don’t – that’s the point, they’re about how the drama courses through this room. Even telling this story now, you and I will be seeing different things.” I look at images on Himid’s iPad: surreal, contemporary, tense – there is no slavish (if the adjective passes in the context) illustration, these paintings are an unnerving extrapolation, they are about memory and responsibility. The story is about blindness, the work about vision. It is crammed with hints: a woman trying to get up in blind panic from a yellow couch; an unappeasable grey sea through a cabin window; the shocked features of the man in the purple gilet standing by; and a lock, a conspicuous, disturbing, surreal motif – the spanner in the works.
Himid’s uncanny gift is to investigate the afterlife of history, to see how it pervades each of us like a dye. In her imaginatively ambitious work Cotton.com (2002), a long brass plaque (it extends across a gallery wall) is engraved as follows: “He said I looked like a painting by Murillo as I carried water for the gang just because I balanced the bucket on my head.” She found a version of this sentence in Manchester’s Portico library: “The book was a plantation inspector’s report, an Englishman sent to Carolina. This extraordinary phrase jumped out at me. I couldn’t leave it with him, I had to give her agency.” The brass plaque focuses on art’s uneasy relationship to suffering – looking like a Murillo does not lighten the weight of the woman’s water bucket.
But where Himid takes a huge imaginative leap is in turning text by Lancashire mill workers and enslaved Africans into patterns. Cotton.com is a detailed, infinitely varied, wordless dialogue in black and white – nothing crudely polarised. “All my work is saying: let’s put this on the table, communicate, negotiate, see what is the same about us, glory in the differences.” The Turner prize show will reintroduce her splendidly shocking piece, entitled with sombre humour, Swallow hard: the Lancaster Dinner Service (2007). “Service” takes on a sinister hue as English ceramics become hosts to images of slavery. A traditional serving dish in blue-and-white, with dainty gold handles, has a portrait of a black woman on its lid: her expression is unhappy and watchful, another world in her gaze. Himid understands the power of the hybrid intimately. To what extent might this stem from being mixed race herself?
Himid’s father was from Zanzibar, her mother Lancastrian. “The thing about having a white English mother and black father is you can see life in two ways. You can see it as a place where you can’t belong. There have been times, places, spaces where that’s been true. I don’t think this subject has been discussed enough. For some people it [being mixed race] is very difficult. But if you put your mind to it, attempt to understand what being human is, you can have many more insights into how things work and experiences that are a privilege. For me, there will always be a struggle with belonging, although the advantages outweigh the disadvantages.”
Himid’s father and mother met and fell in love in London in the early 50s. Her father was studying education at London university, her mother was at the Royal College of Art. “They’d go to wild parties with African students…” When her father returned to Zanzibar, he “sent for” her mother. Did her mother ever talk about how she felt about moving to Zanzibar?
“It was a massive thing to do then,” says Himid, “but she is a rather pragmatic, cool woman.”
Lubaina was born in 1954, named after “one of the numerous handmaidens of Mohammed – a lesser one, not up there with Fatima”. Her mother had been in Zanzibar only two years when her father fell ill.
“My father would get malaria every year but one year he got it and was dead within the week. My mother couldn’t go home at once. She agreed to do the traditional 40 days and 40 nights [of mourning] alone. She could have stayed. Or she could have left me behind – the family would have brought me up.”
Was it painful for her father’s family to let her go? “I think so – losing him first, then me. He died in early November. By Christmas Eve I was in Blackpool, where my English grandmother lived.” Lubaina was four months old.
Does she wonder what her life would have been like if she had stayed in Zanzibar? “I absolutely do. But I think I have tried to do whatever it is I would have done. I would have taught. I’d have always wanted to teach.” Her mother, she explains, was a fabric designer. African-inspired textiles? “No – paisleys and stripes for Marks & Spencer. Lots of her textiles appeared on the high street. I might have done what I do in a lot of my paintings and design kangas [sarongs].”
Has she been back to Zanzibar? “For many years I didn’t go. It took me so long. I was worried about returning, but when I got there in 1997 it was like being in Manchester – familiar and easy to belong. Everybody in the street looked the same and different as I do. It is a place of many crossroads, although there were more sets of people there when I was born… the whole gamut of people in a place that is about trade.”
She grew up in north London, went to Maida Vale high school for girls, studied theatre design at Wimbledon College of Arts (graduating in 1976) and went on to the Royal College (getting her master’s in 1984). Her work is indebted to theatre. She rejoices in the memory of Peter Brook’s work and the thrill of going to Blackpool Tower circus with its blue, pink and green fountains and its trapeze artists. Audience matters to her. “When people come to see my work, I want them to bring their own story to the space because I’ve attempted to bring mine and other people’s – big political debates and simple stories about love and loss. I want the gallery – or even Folkestone beach, where I have a public art piece (a jelly mould pavilion) – to be where those conversations begin.”
Growing up, she appreciated the “Europeanness” of London but has discovered over the years that “belonging is not about geographical place”. It is about “particular friends, mostly women, mostly artists with whom I belong”. She adds: “I belong in making places too: studios, workshops, kitchens and sheds.”
We go up to her studio, a first-floor room with three sash windows and sunlight pouring in. And I finally get round to asking – a measure of how much else there has been to talk about – how she feels about being nominated for the Turner prize, and about being the oldest nominee.
“I’m sure this is true of everybody of 63 but I feel 45. It keeps surprising me. I feel a bit of a fraud but, clearly, I am 63. I’m aware of more years behind me than in front and that’s sobering because there are a lot of paintings I still want to make. I’ve always been in a bit of a hurry. I’ve made a lot of work. Death was in my mind from an early age.” No need to unpack that remark.
So death is a spur? “Yes, come on, come on – make some more!” And is being a nominee galvanising or stressful? “I find it a little stressful because I do want to make a beautiful show.” In terms of galvanising, she says the nomination has brought with it opportunities to work with people that might otherwise have been slow to materialise “and that is really nice”.
Does she feel competitive? “I’m classically uncompetitive – to my chagrin. I once did this walk, which is meant to be 36 miles from Keswick, to Barrow. At 30 miles, I thought: ‘Do you know something? I’ve had enough.’” She laughs: “My life is not about winning in that way.”
The Turner Prize Exhibition is at the Ferens gallery, Hull, from 26 September - 7 January, 2018. The winner will be announced on 5 December
!!!@@@$$$

This bittersweet debut feature from Maysaloun Hamoud is a spiky treat, an empowering tale of three Palestinian women living in Tel Aviv, each fighting their own battles for independence and fulfilment. Balancing tragicomic relationship blues with sharp sociopolitical observation, Hamoud’s slyly subversive drama draws us deep into an often hidden world. As the title suggests, these women occupy a liminal space, caught between freedom and repression, religion and secularism, the past and the future. Theirs is a world in flux, in which the drugs and partying of the underground scene stand in stark contrast to the strict hypocrisies that dominate the cultural landscape. As one of them tells her devout father: “Some people live in palaces, but God knows what their life is like inside…”
Laila (Mouna Hawa) is a force of nature, a chain-smoking, leather-jacketed lawyer who can drink and snort the boys under the table and takes pride in overturning the conventions of her profession and her gender. She lives with Salma (Sana Jammalieh), an aspiring DJ who works long hours in kitchens and bars and whose strict Christian parents don’t know she’s gay. When strait-laced and studious Nour (Shaden Kanboura) arrives from Umm al-Fahm in northern Israel, the ultra-conservative Muslim lifestyle she leads is out of step with that of her new flatmates. No wonder Nour’s sanctimonious fiance, Wissam (Henry Andrawes), worries about their influence, eager to bring the marriage forward and remove his bride from such corrupting company.
At first glance, these women have very different goals and ambitions. Yet scratch the surfaces of their lives and the problems each face are not so dissimilar. Laila is in a whirlwind romance with Ziad (Mahmood Shalabi), who embraces her free spirit but becomes critical of the way she talks, dresses and smokes when his family are around. Salma may have found love in the arms of trainee doctor Dounia (Ahlam Canaan), but only as long as they can keep their relationship secret from Salma’s mother, who is desperate to marry her off, and her father who threatens her with talk of the madhouse. As for Nour, she discovers in horrifying fashion just what is expected of the wife of an apparently upstanding citizen in a gruelling sequence that is made all the more alarming by Hamoud’s sensitive directorial discretion.
In a Sight & Sound magazine interview, Hamoud calls this “an authentic picture of a kind of invisible life that we live here as a younger generation of Palestinians” and it’s a claim that seems to ring true. Nothing about the lives of these women appears false or phoney, even when the narrative takes credibility-stretching detours into contrived revenge drama. Anchoring it all is a terrific ensemble cast that mixes experienced actors with first-time performers; Jammalieh, for example, is a real-life DJ and graphic designer, playing a character close to home.
Director of photography Itay Gross’s loose-limbed camerawork adds to the vérité vibe, giving the performers room to breathe and ensuring that their environment remains a core part of the drama. Meanwhile, a thrumming soundtrack, which includes contributions from Palestinian hip-hop artists DAM, provides a heady and infectious backdrop to the alternative lifestyle milieu.
Inevitable comparisons have been made with Lena Dunham’s Girls and Sex and the City, but this has more in common with the feistiness of Pedro Almodóvar’s early anarchic friendship fable Pepi, Luci, Bom and Other Girls Like Mom than with either of those small-screen US antecedents. Citing directors Ken Loach and Hany Abu-Assad as influences, Hamoud identifies herself as part of a new wave of realist Palestinian cinema, looking beyond the conflicts of the West Bank and Gaza, and putting women proudly centre stage. Yet she is not afraid to portray the price of freedom in a patriarchal world – the closing shot of In Between is a masterful exercise in ambiguity, as enigmatic as the final moments of The Graduate or The Long Good Friday, in which the characters’ silence speaks volumes.
Hamoud, too, has paid a price. After being criticised for taking Israeli state funding, she found herself the subject of death threats and fatwas from fundamentalists, accused of disparaging or corrupting Muslim women, particularly in areas such as Umm al-Fahm. Elsewhere, In Between has been rapturously received, with Hamoud receiving the Women in Motion Young Talents award at this year’s Cannes festival. Isabelle Huppert, who selected her for the award, declared that “the free spirited and joyful women [Hamoud] portrays… are true heroines of our time”. That’s a sentiment with which I wholeheartedly concur.
!!!@@@$$$

Before a snare is hit, before LCD Soundsystem supremo James Murphy starts gesticulating at the monitor sound desk, there is a charge in the air. It telegraphs the delight that, to paraphrase one of LCD Soundsystem’s album titles, this is actually happening.
A gig that should not have been, this second night in Glasgow promotes a fourth LCD album – the recently released American Dream – that should not have been, either. Lairy gratitude informs the dancing that erupts with the first keyboard blobs of Get Innocuous!, LCD’s perfect set-opening gambit. Second only to Oasis as a lauded pilferer of others’ catalogues, Murphy grafts the vocals of David Bowie on to the synth lines of Kraftwerk, somehow making it sound all LCD. (A fab graphic rendition online illustrates the track’s structure.)
This Soundsystem was meant to be boxed up in storage, crystal displays extinguished, its leader deep into his next obsession: fatherhood, coffee or, indeed, other sound systems (Despacio, a high-fidelity mobile clubbing rig). Murphy, a keen observer of the minutiae of greatness, dreamed up the perfect murder of his band: farewell stint at New York’s Madison Square Garden (2011), documentary and box set of the performance (2014). LCD’s iconic status would be assured.
And then Murphy sabotaged his own narrative arc. Fortunately, American Dream was well worth the recall. A No 1 in the US, it revises the LCD story line: an about-face turned into triumph. You wanted a hit? asked one old LCD song, tetchily. They have one now.
Soon, LCD are feeding their new songs into the dense mix of analogue synths, live instrumentation, monstrously good percussion and Murphy’s gruff-camp frontmanship. Having taken some steroids since its recorded version, Call the Police is just great, beginning with an existential slump – “We all know this is nothing,” croons Murphy, Zen-like – climbing up through LCD’s gears, towards another lyrical depth charge: “We do the best we can!”
If American Dream is about anything, it is how to live now – obliquely, of course, via the lens of music, relationships, regrets and Murphy’s hangdog “kids today!” observations. Soon, I Used To finds the nostalgic Murphy channelling his inner Robert Smith, icy early 80s synths throbbing around the room.
The LCD of this American Dream tour are not so much a band reborn as subtly evolved, eight-strong now, and sounding like it. Gavin Russom came out as transgender in July and, tonight, inhabits a 1930s bathing beauty persona while issuing penetrating oscillations from mission control at the back. Nancy Whang’s hair is bigger than you remember, but her playing is just as punctilious and LCD’s secret weapon deservedly gets a mid-set chant of her name.
Seeing this reinforced, even more mighty setup anew, they make virtually all other bands look like amateurs
Murphy spends the gig messing with drummer Pat Mahoney, trying to put this syncopated human metronome off his stride. Tyler Pope (also of the band !!!) put some good music out in the summer and makes a face at Murphy when Losing My Edge – LCD’s first anthem, to music snobbery, ageing and how punk dance music can sound – doesn’t last as long as some other versions. “We’ve only got 20 minutes left!” frets Murphy, pointing at the large digital countdown on stage (he’s the kind of guy who uses a set book, not just a setlist). Multi-instrumentalists Al Doyle (Hot Chip), Korey Richey and Matt Thornley swap, feed back, solo and make for double-drummer assaults.
Seeing this reinforced, even more mighty setup anew, they make virtually all other bands look like amateurs for stopping between songs. LCD are the masters of the segue, skilfully dovetailing a slew of mid-set songs into a seamless DJ mix, with a punky synth freak-out woven in.
Ecstatic cheers ring out when a Giorgio Moroder bass line drops into You Wanted a Hit (“Perfect,” mouths Murphy, either to Mahoney or the monitor mix person). Soon, the groove becomes Tribulations (New Order is the source here), which in turn evolves via Movement into a long workout of Yeah (disco and acid house). Gradually, this beast then morphs into Someone Great, one of LCD’s seals of quality. Grappling with grief at the death of a therapist, Murphy seems to be singing about everyone else too: Bowie, Lou Reed… the list goes grimly on.
If American Dream had to punch very hard to equal LCD’s catalogue, its jaw-shattering right hook is Tonite. Another exquisite distillation of how all life passes through the prism of music, it’s about how we’re all going to die. Our time is finite, but tunes can make it “feel like for ever”. LCD’s execution stayed, we dance on for now.
!!!@@@$$$

If you’re afraid to write it, that’s a good sign. I suppose you know you’re writing the truth when you’re terrified.” These words in black type on a white background make up one of poet Yrsa Daley-Ward’s  Instagram posts. This monochrome snapshot of her innermost thoughts has more than 5,200 “likes”. That’s more than double the number she gets for any pictures. Daley-Ward spent her late teens and early 20s as a model struggling to pay her rent in London, working for brands such as Apple, Topshop, Estée Lauder and Nike. She still models today. Ironically, however, it was the image-obsessed medium of Instagram that enabled her to pursue the written word.
“I always was a writer,” she explains today in a thick Lancashire accent, sitting in a downtown Los Angeles restaurant close to where she lives. “But I was depressed [in London] and that made me choke. Modelling is an interesting profession because it teaches you so much about here…” She points a finger at her face. “But not here…” she sighs and points at her heart. “You become introverted, you disappear into yourself.”
‘I didn’t fit in. I wanted to be white, have different hair, know my father, not be religious…’
Daley-Ward’s debut collection of poetry, Bone, is anything but introverted. Aptly titled, it’s a visceral read candidly documenting her religious upbringing, sexuality and mental-health battles. It flew out of her in three months, as she chronicled her bad love affairs, sense of isolation and feelings of inadequacy – an uncomfortable, uninhibited read. Daley-Ward is a self-confessed firestarter and has a colourful past. She doesn’t watch TV and prefers to go to the pub to drink Guinness and “chat to old men about their lives”. When asked to give her age, she refuses. “Men don’t get asked,” she barks.
She finds the notion of being objectified irksome. In a bodycon dress today, she tells me she’s been cat-called “seven times” en route here. “Why the fuck? Look at the patriarchy, look at rape culture. I don’t need to be subjected to what men think.” With her poems she cuts through that, deep into the parts of herself that she feels have been overseen by superficial, homogenous norms.
Bone was initially released in 2014 through Amazon’s self-publishing arm. It’s since been expanded for reissue via Penguin. Daley-Ward’s 116,000 and growing Instagram fanbase was key to that. Having followers like pop star Florence & the Machine and Hollywood actor Ellen Page also helps.
Daley-Ward read everything she could get her hands on as a kid: Roald Dahl, Spike Milligan, Shakespeare. As a young, black, LGBTQ female, she’s often said that she feels “invisible”in the literary world and maintains that poetry has a long way to go to diversify itself.
“Have I seen change? Yes and no,” she says. “There’s a lot more to do. If it wasn’t for the internet how would I have got the book out? How would I have got a publisher? If I went to a publisher armed with Bone and zero internet following…” She tapers off, suggesting they’d have looked right past her. “I didn’t know what to expect. I just persevered.”
Alongside the African-American poet Nayyirah Waheed, Zimbabwean bard Tapiwa Mugabe and Nigerian writer Ijeoma Umebinyuo, Daley-Ward, who is of West Indian and West African descent, is part of a small, elite community of black writers who are breaking down barriers. “It’s lovely to see women of colour poets,” she says. “Old poetry can be so inaccessible. Not just for people of colour but for people who aren’t super erudite, who don’t read, don’t love Shakespeare. Some people just want to connect with feelings.”
The melting pot of Downtown LA is a far cry from home in Chorley. She was born in the northern town after her Jamaican mother (a nurse) had an extra-marital affair with a Nigerian man who came to the UK to study, leaving his wife and children behind. He died before Daley-Ward was old enough to meet him.
From the age of seven to 11 she was sent, with her younger brother, to live with her grandparents. They were Seventh Day Adventists. Daley-Ward describes them as “strict religious fundamentalists”. “From sunset on Friday we couldn’t do anything until sunset on Saturday,” she recalls. “During the week everything was monitored. We didn’t go outside except to see my cousins.”
‘Sex work is common among models. It’s not standing on street corners – you have boyfriends who are very rich’
Growing up fast, she was ingrained with certain gender expectations; rules that existed to be broken. “They’d tell me that a girl should be able to run a house. Every Sunday my grandma and I would be on our knees handwashing all the clothes. I learned how to clean, sew and cook. I never make my bed now.”
At the time, Daley-Ward bottled up her frustrations. When she returned to live with her mother, she was left to raise her brother while her mum worked night shifts. “Things changed completely,” she remembers. “There was all the freedom where we once had no freedom.”
As well as the liberation that came with her own sexual awakening, she gained a more rounded perspective on a woman’s place in the world. Her mum’s boyfriends weren’t always the most desirable choices. “She was the one with the money, working hard. She never received help from men, ever.” That gave birth to a sense of staunch independence in her, combined with a streak of disruption. “I’m a quiet, introverted person, but I was very internally rebellious.”
Conflict continued to bubble up inside her; she was acutely aware of not fitting in in Chorley. “I was a black girl living in a market town, alien to everything. There were so many things I wanted to be other than what I was. I wanted to be white, have different hair, have parents who were home, know my father, not be religious. When I watched TV, everything from Disney to Coronation Street, there was never a representation of me.” She would write to disappear into different realities.
Soon enough, however, she didn’t need prose to whisk her away. There was a man – an older music teacher. He was married. He left his wife for her. “It was a torrid, crazy time,” she recalls, awkwardly avoiding the conversation.
She left Chorley and moved to Manchester en route to London, as the pull of big multicultural cities became exhilarating to her. “I was going out dancing to reggae and African music, buying jollof rice made by someone other than my grandma.” The honeymoon period was short, though. She lost her mother in 2007. (She doesn’t say how she died but implies that her lack of quality of life contributed.) Working as a jobbing actor and model, struggling to makes ends meet, she fell into depression. Writing was unimportant when there were bills to pay. “The grind got to me. I was lonely and had no real support in the world. None. I felt awful every day. I didn’t want to get out of bed.”
The discrimination she experienced in the fashion industry made matters worse. Repeatedly she’d fail to get jobs she was more than qualified for. “This is not a face that sells in England,” she says. “They say that black models sell fewer clothes than white models. That’s stupid. Fashion just doesn’t want to be diverse.” To survive, she had to find other avenues. “I was a very enterprising young woman,” she says coyly. “Learning what to use to get by.”
I ask if she’s alluding to sex work. She laughs. “It’s the most common thing in the modelling industry, especially at high levels. I’m not talking about standing on street corners. You have a boyfriend for two months who’s a millionaire. In that situation you’re safe, eating caviar, drinking champagne. There are other situations that are considerably less safe and less consensual. It’s a reality for so many women in the entertainment industry and we’re told not to talk about it.”
In desperate need of salvation and in search of more secure modelling jobs, she moved to Cape Town where there was, she says, a guaranteed market for black models. She was 24 years old with £200 in her pocket. The experience made her rich in a way she’d never have anticipated. While there, she came across a spoken-word evening. The task was to write a poem about family discord. “I thought: easy!” she smiles. Her performance brought rapturous applause. She went again and again. Every week the audience grew.
“In acting and modelling I was so busy expressing what somebody else wanted that I’d completely shut down my own voice,” she says. “I didn’t have any mirrors. When I was 20, I was in knots. I couldn’t speak my reality to anybody. There’s no cage now. Lots of people are afraid to tell the truth. But I don’t care. It’s fucking boring otherwise.”
Today, Daley-Ward lives between LA and London. Her audience has grown far beyond Cape Town. One poem, Mental Health, has made fans of people who have never given a thought to poetry. During a reading in south London, a man came up to her in tears. “He asked me to send it to him. I thought nobody was listening,” she says. She’s also become a poster child for the undermined, particularly the LGBTQ community. Despite writing about her relationships with women, she refuses to make her sexuality a big deal, insisting that her poems relate to people of all sexual preferences.
“I’m writing about common experience,” she says. “The LGBT community are my friends. The queer space is varied and intricate. Every story I have is a story a friend has. When I talk about a woman that you can’t get out of your head even though you know she’s going to fuck you over… Hello?! That represents 10 people I know.”
In an age of technology, the fact that Daley-Ward has built a platform for literature out of social media is perhaps her biggest act of rebellion. Next, she’ll release a memoir. “There’s nothing left unsaid,” she laughs. Titled The Terrible, it’s “The truest thing I’ll maybe ever write.” Where it will take her remains to be seen. “I move through the world at an alarming rate. Next time we speak I might be in New York,” she says. “I’m in the midst of a change. I keep dreaming about it. Something’s about to happen.”
Bone by Yrsa Daley-Ward is published by Penguin on 26 September, at £9.99. To order a copy for £8.49, go to bookshop.theguardian.com
Fashion credits: (from top) Daley-ward wears dress by Alexander McQueen; coat by Givenchy; and jumper by Prada. Fashion editor Jo Jones; hair by Jerome Cultrera at L’Atelier NYC using Oribe Hair Care; make-up by Linda Gradin at L’Atelier NYC using MAC Cosmetics; fashion assistant Bemi Shaw
!!!@@@$$$

Loneliness is a recurrent ache in pop music; the diagnosis is normally heartbreak, unrequited love or loss. Moses Sumney has a slightly different take on what is drily termed “aromanticism” – an imperviousness to coupling up. Born of exacting self-scrutiny, it is bolstered by 70s soul, Greek myth and what sounds like a personal phalanx of angels that routinely dive bombs this gorgeously crafted album.
We’re not all destined to be completed by some special someone, the LA musician seems to conclude. That the swooning, layered backing vocals on many of these 11 tracks turn out to be just Sumney, multi-tracked, underscore his exquisite isolation.
Having reached a wider audience thanks to his guest spot on Solange’s A Seat at the Table album, Sumney is now taking his own stool at music’s countertop with a genre-resistant debut that juxtaposes guitars with harp sounds and electronic production. It recalls the delicacy of Anohni’s first album while sounding like little else – our own Sampha covering Tim Buckley’s Song to the Siren, maybe.
Of course, the boy has some company. Jazz outlier Thundercat guests on bass, as does Paris Strother from King; Matt Otto, previously half of Majical Cloudz, helps out with production.
And Sumney has had sleepovers. “All my old lovers have found others,” he notes on the spare, guitar-driven folk-soul of Indulge Me. Another fantasia finds a finger-clicking Sumney declaring: “I’m not trying to go to bed with ya/I just wanna make out in my car.” Discreet panting, a jazz flute and fruity strings mark the tryst (Make Out in My Car).
Sometimes, Sumney considers, love founders on circumstance, or worse. A key track, the expansive Quarrel, is all low-key shimmies and pops, harps and muted horns – and prejudice. “Don’t call it a lovers’ quarrel,” demands Sumney. “We cannot be lovers/Cos I am the other.” As though to underline the point, the final two minutes unfurl into spacey soul and restless jazz.
Sometimes, in our culture, being resistant to happily-ever-after seems akin to blasphemy. The pivotal track, Doomed, finds Sumney wondering: “If lovelessness is godlessness/Will you cast me to the wayside?” This time, the cavalry of angels doesn’t arrive; it’s just Sumney’s quaver and a little thrumming synth in the background. A riveting moment later, he is excommunicating himself. “Well, I feel the peeling/Of half-painted ceilings/Reveal the covering of a blank sky.”
Sumney has described the album as “a sonic dreamscape” and if Aromanticism has a tiny drawback, it is an over-reliance on beauty. This former choirboy has a truly celestial falsetto, but he underuses his lower register. Plastic – included here, but originally released in 2014 – finds Sumney sliding assuredly down the octaves on a single vocal line. This album packs so much succour; only once – on Lonely World – are the virtuoso musicians he has assembled allowed to express any tension. The unexpected percussion hammers down like rain.
!!!@@@$$$

‘Does anyone read Bruce Chatwin these days?” asked Blake Morrison, reviewing his letters seven years ago. Well, someone must: nearly 30 years after his death, all six of Chatwin’s books are still in print. But it is true that when the dominant writers of the 1970s and 1980s are discussed, Chatwin’s name is rarely among them. The penalty of once being fashionable is that you may come to be thought of as merely fashionable. Almost violently successful at first, his books are now less likely to be mentioned than the Moleskine notebooks in which he sketched and jotted.
Vintage’s 40th anniversary edition of In Patagonia is an invitation to look again at one of the most vivid but elusive writers of the late 20th century. Chatwin’s first book, it helped to change the idea of what travel writing could be. It appeared at a rich literary moment, when both reportage and the novel were beginning to fly high in new directions. I remember the time well – I edited In Patagonia and in doing so became friends with the author. Angela Carter and Ryszard Kapuściński, Martin Amis, Ian McEwan and Salman Rushdie were already publishing; Julian Barnes was preparing to take off. In Patagonia was in a category of its own. It was clearly not a novel, but it flirted with fiction. A collage of histories, sketches, myths and memories, with short scenes glinting towards each other, without judgment, conclusion or, often, links. Chatwin said he was trying to make a cubist portrait. It is paradoxical, in content and in style. The syntax is snappy but the vocabulary is orchidaceous. It holds back from intimate revelation – “I don’t believe in becoming clean,” Chatwin announced – but is fuelled by autobiography, lit up by personal obsessions.
In Patagonia begins with the infant Chatwin in Birmingham looking at a piece of “brontosaurus skin” and ends with the grown-up adventurer embarking on a ship at Punta Arenas. It examines the lives of the giant sloth and His Royal Highness Prince Philippe of Araucanía and Patagonia – a short chap in a brown tweed suit. It investigates new clues about Butch Cassidy, “who rode into a new life of wide horizons and the scent of horse leather”, and gives a lyrical account of the Welsh in Patagonia: hollyhocks, whitewashed rooms, ripe plums, pottery dogs and a harmonium. One of its final pictures is of “a boy from the Falklands with a sealskin hat and strange sharp teeth”. He declares: “’Bout time the Argentines took us over. We’re so bloody inbred.” That was five years before the Falklands war. Chatwin was often accused of being a fantasist. He was certainly not through-and-through rational, but he was often shrewd, often prescient.
Chatwin was a traveller, an art expert, a connoisseur of the extraordinary. He had not set out to be an author. At school – Marlborough – he had been considered “very much alive… he has a smooth and elegant style but is still too fond of the byways of historical accident”. At Sotheby’s, where he went to work at 18, he was a star: he had a quick eye for a fake, a sure eye for what was good, and rose to dizzy prominence in the impressionist and modern art (excluding British) and antiquities departments. He was also set to charm clients into buying and selling. At Somerset Maugham’s house on the French Riviera, Maugham’s secretary pleaded: “Bruce, do let Willy play with your hair.” He bolted from the auction house to Edinburgh University, to study archaeology. He bolted from Edinburgh after two years without taking his degree. In his 30s, he was taken on at the Sunday Times Magazine and, encouraged by Francis Wyndham, wrote sharp-edged, vivid, ingenious pieces: about the designer Eileen Gray, about George Costakis, an art collector in the Soviet Union, about Madeleine Vionnet, inventor of the bias cut. He bolted from the Sunday Times to Patagonia.
By the time I came across Chatwin, he was 36 and had done all these things. He had also accrued a reputation that, had I known about it, would have made me quail. He was celebrated for his looks: wide-browed, blond, strong blue eyes; his friend Howard Hodgkin thought he “looked like the captain of the first XI” – though he painted him, Chatwin noted, as “an acid green smear”. He was known for being particular about his outfits: his emerald jacket, his khaki safari shirt and shorts, his soft, toffee-coloured boots, and for the haversack in dark brown calfskin custom made by a saddler in Cirencester with each pocket carefully devised to house a particular item. He was famous for his sudden disappearances, his unexpected arrivals and for the whirling discourses that magnetised his audiences but which no one could quite summarise. His riff on red asked if the colour of revolution was inspired by blood or by fire, and took in the bonnet rouge of the French Revolution, Garibaldi, Uruguayan butchers, bullfighters and Buddhism. All too much, you might think, too exquisite. Yet he could capture convinced sceptics with his talk. Martin Amis had developed a rugged resistance to Chatwin before meeting him. When he saw “a very dinky little sleeping-bag with a club-class sticker” that the traveller had left behind him, he decided: “That just about sums him up.” But when he met him he melted. Six years after Chatwin’s death he keenly recalled an evening with him, talking about Romantic poetry. “He did,” Amis said, “remind you how intense the pleasures of conversation can be.”
I first met Chatwin in the drought summer of 1976. He swooped into the dingy room (next to the ladies’ lav) I occupied at the publisher Jonathan Cape, already talking and moving so fast he looked as if he were hiking through the room. He was carrying that calfskin haversack. In it was a paperback of L’or by Blaise Cendrars, a World Classics edition of Sydney Smith’s letters – and the bulky manuscript of what was then called “At the End: A Journey to Patagonia”.
I had written the reader’s report on the book. It had dazzled and worried me. It was exceptional – but it was enormous and it didn’t flow. I became his editor, with the task of making the book speed along. Over the next few weeks, we went through every line of the manuscript, reading it aloud in the Regent’s Park flat of the art dealer John Kasmin. Every night, the author went home merrily to hack away his stuff: he loved chucking out adjectives and anything that looked like a moody reaction shot. Every morning, he arrived having cut – but often having also added another episode; stories kept spilling out of him.
Nevertheless, judging by the sums I scrawled in the margins, I reckon we eventually cut between a quarter and a third of the typescript. The result was a swifter and consistently sleek volume: short phrases, short chapters, short book. Not much that went was wasted. Some of the cut material bobbed up in later work, in The Songlines, his baggiest and probably most famous book, and in On the Black Hill. That novel he wrote, he said, to escape the label of travel writer: “I decided to write something about people who never went out.” John Updike saw in this story of identical twin brothers the picture of a homosexual marriage. Chatwin, who had married at 25, had had male lovers.
For me, his great gift – on the page and in person – was visual generosity. He made you see different things and look at things differently. It was not works of art in galleries that interested him so much as objects, particularly those from which a story could be extracted. On the wall of his attic room in Albany, the apartment block in Piccadilly, was the king of Hawaii’s bedsheet: apricot-coloured, patterned with a shoal of jumping fish, looking like a Matisse. Chatwin had turned up at Christie’s on his bike to buy it in the 1960s. In the small Eaton Place flat designed by John Pawson – pleated like origami to hide his books – he hung pictures he had made by cutting coloured drawings from the catalogue of a broom manufacturer: rows of pinky-red-and-white toothbrushes, elegant and comic. In all his houses, he kept a prayer inscribed in Latin by the artist-poet David Jones: “May the blessed Archangel Michael defend us in battle lest we perish in the terrible judgment.” When he fell ill he took it with him in and out of hospitals.
In 1982, leafing through Time magazine, he came across an article about a “gay plague”. He later told his wife, Elizabeth, that he had immediately thought this applied to him. In his final years, sometimes feverish, sometimes high on the drugs he was prescribed, he became an exaggerated version of his already high-velocity self. He was full of plans and wheezes. He wanted to write a mighty novel featuring “four decadent countries – the USA, the USSR, France and Britain”. He had a scheme for an opera about Florence Gould, the grande dame from San Francisco who, during the second world war, presided over a multilingual salon in Paris, where guests included Jean Cocteau and German propaganda officers. It was to be an English opera in which hardly a word of English would be spoken. He wanted to give all his friends presents and went on wild shopping sprees. What he spent bore little relation to what money he had. “God is filling up my bank balance,” he told the jazz singer George Melly. Meanwhile, Elizabeth cancelled cheques and returned objects to art dealers.
In the midst of this tumult, he produced the intricate short novel Utz, which was shortlisted for the 1988 Booker prize. It is the tale of a secret life which I think contains a quiet tribute to his wife. It is also a wonderful evocation of austerity and calm. He asked me to edit it and I went down to his house in Oxfordshire with some small suggestions. We sat for cold bright mornings, making some tucks and trims, with Bruce beamingly anticipating some of my quibbles: “Beat you!” Halfway through spaghetti and bacon in the kitchen, he suddenly went completely blue. Huddled up in a blanket, looking tiny, he wailed: “I’m a child of the tropics!” The following weekend he was worse: “My stomach is like a calabash!” he declared, drumming on it rather proudly. A couple of months later, he was thin and disconsolate and in bed.
He died on 18 January 1989; he was 48. On 14 February, Elizabeth arranged an Orthodox service of commemoration in the Greek cathedral of Saint Sophia in Moscow Road, London. It turned out to be an occasion of drama. Two hours earlier, the fatwa on Salman Rushdie had been announced. Rushdie was at the cathedral, greeted by a horde of journalists as he came out. “Keep your head down, Salman, or next week we’ll be back here for you,” advised Paul Theroux.
It was also a mysterious event, unlike any other memorial service I have ever attended. Many thought it beautiful. Others thought its theatricality camp. Martin Amis saw this, homing in on “a religion that no one he knew could understand” as “Bruce’s last joke on his friends and loved ones”. The actor Peter Eyre, coming from a rehearsal of King Lear in a beard and clothes that would allow him to roll around – head to toe in black – was mistaken for a priest and approached by a member of the congregation about the possibility of conversion. The real black-robed priests talked of the end of pain, but there was no encomium, no evocation of the man who had died. The only word English speakers could be sure of was the repeatedly intoned “Bruce”. The author was absent from his service – as his admired Gustave Flaubert said that the artist should be absent from his work. And yet the occasion seemed full of his qualities. It was paradoxical, bringing together spareness and metropolitan bustle. Full of stories. Capriciously elusive.
• The 40th anniversary edition of In Patagonia by Bruce Chatwin is published by Vintage on 5 October (£10.99). To order a copy for £9.34 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99. Susannah Clapp’s memoir With Chatwin: Portrait of a Writer (1997) is also published by Vintage
!!!@@@$$$

Sometimes Juliet Stevenson looks like a parachute, sometimes like a handkerchief snatched away by the wind. Floating high above the stage in Arthur Kopit’s Wings, she is at first wrapped in a billowy white cloudlike material; later, she flies high in a grey jumpsuit, as limber as Peter Pan. She twists, turns upside down, body straight as a dart. Occasionally she is helped to spin faster by chaps in flying helmets. She never stops talking.
The force of Natalie Abrahami’s production is visual. It is powered by the extraordinary sight of Stevenson – completely in control of breath and limb and yet playing a woman who is out of touch with her brain. Once an aviatrix and wing walker, she has suffered a stroke. Once she soared above the Earth; now she seems to float above herself, unable to connect her words to her intentions. When she does land, she trails a foot behind her as if her attendance on the ground were only provisional.
Kopit wrote Wings in 1976 as a play for radio. His main character begins with high-velocity jumbled speech: there are echoes of Beckett, and, so, echoes of the last time Stevenson was directed by Abrahami, buried up to her neck in sand as Winnie in Happy Days. She moves, as the character heals, to smoother phrases and recognisable sense. Some of that movement is overwhelmed by the production’s bravura spectacle. There is also something missing that even Stevenson – in turn stunned, bewildered, gradually returning – cannot quite supply. A sense of the person before the stroke: not just what she did but what she was like. Without that, this is an arresting picture of a condition rather than a full portrait of a character.
• At the Young Vic until 4 November
!!!@@@$$$

This handsome, semi-dramatised documentary explores the lives and tempestuous love of Argentina’s most celebrated tango dancers, María Nieves Rego and Juan Carlos Copes. She’s now 79 and he’s 86 and they’re still dancing. They met while in their teens, reinvented the tango and made each other thoroughly miserable for at least five decades.
With its theatrical approach, fascinating archive material and numerous dance sequences, this is a treat for tango fans. Audiences indifferent to the Argentine national dance, however, might find all the stomping and flouncing a little hard to take after a while.
!!!@@@$$$

As the days shorten, outfits lengthen and autumn greets us with chilly reserve, Hollywood is still poring over the results of its summer autopsy – a grim one, with the season ending in its lowest US box office total in a decade. As fingers of blame are pointed in any number of directions, from Netflix to the political administration, the slump is more easily explained in a few individual cases; even the least discerning viewers couldn’t find much to love in films as obnoxiously misconceived as King Arthur: Legend of the Sword (Warner, 15) and Baywatch (Paramount, 15).
The former sees Guy Ritchie trying out the same trick he pulled with Sherlock Holmes – meshing the lairy contemporary laddishness of his geezer crime flicks to an older-school English storytelling institution. The slick of glib confidence that got Holmes by, however, has all washed off in this incoherent scramble of booming battle choreography, comic-book history and scratchy “street” swagger – let us cast a permanent veil over David Beckham’s excruciating cameo – with poor Charlie Hunnam looking beautifully bemused at the centre of it all. Hard as it is to locate a principal problem here, it might be that Ritchie’s winking urban anachronisms in this tricked-out Arthurian universe are themselves out of date; Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels has never felt so long ago.
It’s a toss-up as to whether this approach is more exhausting than the full-on, just-bants japery of Baywatch, a notional homage to the 1990s lifeguard soap that never matches its source for basic laughs or high-kitsch camp value. Director Seth Gordon aims for the same gonzo irreverence as Lord and Miller’s 21 Jump Street films, but misses the comic value in just how distantly they drifted from their TV namesake. Merely rehashing the original’s iconography in heavy air quotes doesn’t go very far and nothing could be more gleefully absurd than David Hasselhoff to begin with – so what’s the point, exactly?
After that wearying double bill, the considerably quieter maritime pleasures of The Red Turtle (Studiocanal, PG) settle softly on the soul like aqueous cream. A serene marriage between the lyrical sensibilities of Studio Ghibli and Dutch animator Michaël Dudok de Wit, this wordless but feeling-soaked fable about the strange, shape-shifting bond between a marooned mariner and the giant sea turtle that keeps foiling his escape attempts begins as pictorial adventure before morphing into something sublimely romantic. Exquisitely hand-rendered in tones of coral and azure, it’s a one-off that offers rapture for adults and the smallest of patient children alike.
For grown-ups who prefer their hearts squeezed in more conventional, real-world ways, French veteran Benoît Jacquot’s determinedly old-fashioned love triangle 3 Hearts (101 Films, 15), making its long-delayed UK DVD premiere, does the job plushly enough. When two dissimilar sisters (Charlotte Gainsbourg and Chiara Mastroianni) fall for the same man (Benoît Poelvoorde), the situation crumples in most of the expected ways; it’s pleasingly mellow melodrama, given a spritzer spike by Catherine Deneuve as the sisters’ mother.
With Robert Redford and Jane Fonda renewing their screen partnership for Netflix – more on that next week – the rerelease of their first shared credit, Arthur Penn’s odd-angled 1966 prison-break drama The Chase (Powerhouse, 15) is cleverly timed. The film, principally a vehicle for Marlon Brando as a morally tortured sheriff tracking Redford’s honourable outlaw, remains something of a southern-fried curio: hot, bothered and overplotted, but fascinatingly preoccupied with its era’s economic politics, and feverish with star power. A rather more elegant parable of money and morality is Ermanno Olmi’s 1988 Venice Golden Lion winner The Legend of the Holy Drinker (Arrow, PG): a Joseph Roth adaptation starring Rutger Hauer as an alcoholic Parisian tramp endlessly frustrated in his quest to repay a stranger’s loan, it’s a grave, stirring gutter epic – and a welcome companion to Olmi’s recently revived beauty The Tree of the Wooden Clogs.
Finally, a low-key Netflix debut for a film that stomps on to screen with far splashier intentions. Iranian-American film-maker Ana Lily Amirpour’s The Bad Batch is a vividly dyed curate’s egg. Its grisly dystopian tale of social misfits cast out of America into a fenced-off desert purgatory dips freely into assorted genres – spaghetti western, cannibal-holocaust exploitation, Mad Max fantasia – while delivering a blunt state-of-the-nation address on immigration, classism and feminism.
Premiered before Trump’s election, it plays very much as a film for this moment, though it remains a cluttered, hollow-hearted muddle and a disappointment after Amirpour’s sinuous urban-vampire debut, A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night. Still, it has its ardent admirers – last year’s Venice jury among them – and deserved a chance for cinema audiences to pick their side.
!!!@@@$$$

Jean-Michel Basquiat (1960-88) is the archetype of the doomed young artist, dead at 27 of a heroin overdose. A film in Boom for Real shows him walking through Manhattan, a hot young star with a sax and a beautiful face, his fame as the secretive graffiti artist Samo (Same Old Shit) already behind him. He is not yet 20.
This retrospective – his first here, surprisingly – is heavily tipped towards the life and times, and so stuffed with blown-up photos and footage of Basquiat dancing, musing, clubbing and hanging out with Warhol that it’s hard to see the art at first. But eventually it comes, fully formed, almost, from the start – the caricatural drawings, the names and epigrammatic phrases in block capitals, the darting cars, scudding planes, lists of heroes and historic faces, all sampled against glowing high-chrome backdrops with a DJ’s nonchalant energy.
They don’t aspire to the condition of graffiti, it turns out, so much as the idioms of American art in the 1980s: Rauschenberg’s collages and Cy Twombly’s elegant whispers, Warhol’s silk screens and Keith Haring’s hip-hop hieroglyphics. From Egyptian art to Gray’s Anatomy, Basquiat had pictorial sources lying all around him in the studio and that’s how his images appear, in scattered thoughts and glances, the connections between them sometimes mordant, sometimes comic.
One of the many daft captions in this show speaks of his “finely executed portraits” of Charles Darwin and TH Huxley (he was interested in their theories of racial evolution). This is nonsense. Basquiat made pictograms rather than likenesses. When he first met Warhol, Basquiat ran home and made a double portrait in two hours: Warhol is all drawing, the strands of his fright wig extending into wrinkles, whereas Basquiat is a big sweep of ochre paint rising into wild black dreadlocks.
Painted fast, swiftly viewed: his works are ideal for the restless brain. They have terrific graphic register. Here’s the name of a black hero declaimed against a white background: the politics neatly encapsulated. Here’s his own self-portrait as a skull, beneath the word Famous! Celebrated, but prophetically dead. At the Barbican, nobody mentions the drugs that eventually killed him but they’re there in the later works, with their intensive cross-hatchings and buzzing repetitions, and in their atmosphere of nocturnal solitude.
Ultimately, the art feels indivisible from Basquiat’s famous charm and attractiveness, for there is a lot of both in this show, most particularly in the self-portraits, especially the antic black silhouettes with their cut-out eyes and flaring hair. But this is in no way a normal exhibition. It’s not just the preponderance of ephemera, from club tickets to postcards and party polaroids, but the growing foreboding in the gas masks, skulls and death’s heads. There is the pervasive feeling that everything here was made live and direct, in response to something going on in another time and place far away – that it has all been retrieved, only just, from oblivion.
• Basquiat: Boom for Real is at Barbican Art Gallery until 28 January
!!!@@@$$$

Matthew Walker has learned to dread the question “What do you do?” At parties, it signals the end of his evening; thereafter, his new acquaintance will inevitably cling to him like ivy. On an aeroplane, it usually means that while everyone else watches movies or reads a thriller, he will find himself running an hours-long salon for the benefit of passengers and crew alike. “I’ve begun to lie,” he says. “Seriously. I just tell people I’m a dolphin trainer. It’s better for everyone.”
Walker is a sleep scientist. To be specific, he is the director of the Center for Human Sleep Science at the University of California, Berkeley, a research institute whose goal – possibly unachievable – is to understand everything about sleep’s impact on us, from birth to death, in sickness and health. No wonder, then, that people long for his counsel. As the line between work and leisure grows ever more blurred, rare is the person who doesn’t worry about their sleep. But even as we contemplate the shadows beneath our eyes, most of us don’t know the half of it – and perhaps this is the real reason he has stopped telling strangers how he makes his living. When Walker talks about sleep he can’t, in all conscience, limit himself to whispering comforting nothings about camomile tea and warm baths. It’s his conviction that we are in the midst of a “catastrophic sleep-loss epidemic”, the consequences of which are far graver than any of us could imagine. This situation, he believes, is only likely to change if government gets involved.
Walker has spent the last four and a half years writing Why We Sleep, a complex but urgent book that examines the effects of this epidemic close up, the idea being that once people know of the powerful links between sleep loss and, among other things, Alzheimer’s disease, cancer, diabetes, obesity and poor mental health, they will try harder to get the recommended eight hours a night (sleep deprivation, amazing as this may sound to Donald Trump types, constitutes anything less than seven hours). But, in the end, the individual can achieve only so much. Walker wants major institutions and law-makers to take up his ideas, too. “No aspect of our biology is left unscathed by sleep deprivation,” he says. “It sinks down into every possible nook and cranny. And yet no one is doing anything about it. Things have to change: in the workplace and our communities, our homes and families. But when did you ever see an NHS poster urging sleep on people? When did a doctor prescribe, not sleeping pills, but sleep itself? It needs to be prioritised, even incentivised. Sleep loss costs the UK economy over £30bn a year in lost revenue, or 2% of GDP. I could double the NHS budget if only they would institute policies to mandate or powerfully encourage sleep.”
I get on a flight at 10am when people should be at peak alert, and half of the plane has immediately fallen asleep
Why, exactly, are we so sleep-deprived? What has happened over the course of the last 75 years? In 1942, less than 8% of the population was trying to survive on six hours or less sleep a night; in 2017, almost one in two people is. The reasons are seemingly obvious. “First, we electrified the night,” Walker says. “Light is a profound degrader of our sleep. Second, there is the issue of work: not only the porous borders between when you start and finish, but longer commuter times, too. No one wants to give up time with their family or entertainment, so they give up sleep instead. And anxiety plays a part. We’re a lonelier, more depressed society. Alcohol and caffeine are more widely available. All these are the enemies of sleep.”
But Walker believes, too, that in the developed world sleep is strongly associated with weakness, even shame. “We have stigmatised sleep with the label of laziness. We want to seem busy, and one way we express that is by proclaiming how little sleep we’re getting. It’s a badge of honour. When I give lectures, people will wait behind until there is no one around and then tell me quietly: ‘I seem to be one of those people who need eight or nine hours’ sleep.’ It’s embarrassing to say it in public. They would rather wait 45 minutes for the confessional. They’re convinced that they’re abnormal, and why wouldn’t they be? We chastise people for sleeping what are, after all, only sufficient amounts. We think of them as slothful. No one would look at an infant baby asleep, and say ‘What a lazy baby!’ We know sleeping is non-negotiable for a baby. But that notion is quickly abandoned [as we grow up]. Humans are the only species that deliberately deprive themselves of sleep for no apparent reason.” In case you’re wondering, the number of people who can survive on five hours of sleep or less without any impairment, expressed as a percent of the population and rounded to a whole number, is zero.
The world of sleep science is still relatively small. But it is growing exponentially, thanks both to demand (the multifarious and growing pressures caused by the epidemic) and to new technology (such as electrical and magnetic brain stimulators), which enables researchers to have what Walker describes as “VIP access” to the sleeping brain. Walker, who is 44 and was born in Liverpool, has been in the field for more than 20 years, having published his first research paper at the age of just 21. “I would love to tell you that I was fascinated by conscious states from childhood,” he says. “But in truth, it was accidental.” He started out studying for a medical degree in Nottingham. But having discovered that doctoring wasn’t for him – he was more enthralled by questions than by answers – he switched to neuroscience, and after graduation, began a PhD in neurophysiology supported by the Medical Research Council. It was while working on this that he stumbled into the realm of sleep.
“I was looking at the brainwave patterns of people with different forms of dementia, but I was failing miserably at finding any difference between them,” he recalls now. One night, however, he read a scientific paper that changed everything. It described which parts of the brain were being attacked by these different types of dementia: “Some were attacking parts of the brain that had to do with controlled sleep, while other types left those sleep centres unaffected. I realised my mistake. I had been measuring the brainwave activity of my patients while they were awake, when I should have been doing so while they were asleep.” Over the next six months, Walker taught himself how to set up a sleep laboratory and, sure enough, the recordings he made in it subsequently spoke loudly of a clear difference between patients. Sleep, it seemed, could be a new early diagnostic litmus test for different subtypes of dementia.
After this, sleep became his obsession. “Only then did I ask: what is this thing called sleep, and what does it do? I was always curious, annoyingly so, but when I started to read about sleep, I would look up and hours would have gone by. No one could answer the simple question: why do we sleep? That seemed to me to be the greatest scientific mystery. I was going to attack it, and I was going to do that in two years. But I was naive. I didn’t realise that some of the greatest scientific minds had been trying to do the same thing for their entire careers. That was two decades ago, and I’m still cracking away.” After gaining his doctorate, he moved to the US. Formerly a professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, he is now professor of neuroscience and psychology at the University of California.
Does his obsession extend to the bedroom? Does he take his own advice when it comes to sleep? “Yes. I give myself a non-negotiable eight-hour sleep opportunity every night, and I keep very regular hours: if there is one thing I tell people, it’s to go to bed and to wake up at the same time every day, no matter what. I take my sleep incredibly seriously because I have seen the evidence. Once you know that after just one night of only four or five hours’ sleep, your natural killer cells – the ones that attack the cancer cells that appear in your body every day – drop by 70%, or that a lack of sleep is linked to cancer of the bowel, prostate and breast, or even just that the World Health Organisation has classed any form of night-time shift work as a probable carcinogen, how could you do anything else?”
There is, however, a sting in the tale. Should his eyelids fail to close, Walker admits that he can be a touch “Woody Allen-neurotic”. When, for instance, he came to London over the summer, he found himself jet-lagged and wide awake in his hotel room at two o’clock in the morning. His problem then, as always in these situations, was that he knew too much. His brain began to race. “I thought: my orexin isn’t being turned off, the sensory gate of my thalamus is wedged open, my dorsolateral prefrontal cortex won’t shut down, and my melatonin surge won’t happen for another seven hours.” What did he do? In the end, it seems, even world experts in sleep act just like the rest of us when struck by the curse of insomnia. He turned on a light and read for a while.
Will Why We Sleep have the impact its author hopes? I’m not sure: the science bits, it must be said, require some concentration. But what I can tell you is that it had a powerful effect on me. After reading it, I was absolutely determined to go to bed earlier – a regime to which I am sticking determinedly. In a way, I was prepared for this. I first encountered Walker some months ago, when he spoke at an event at Somerset House in London, and he struck me then as both passionate and convincing (our later interview takes place via Skype from the basement of his “sleep centre”, a spot which, with its bedrooms off a long corridor, apparently resembles the ward of a private hospital). But in another way, it was unexpected. I am mostly immune to health advice. Inside my head, there is always a voice that says “just enjoy life while it lasts”.
The evidence Walker presents, however, is enough to send anyone early to bed. It’s no kind of choice at all. Without sleep, there is low energy and disease. With sleep, there is vitality and health. More than 20 large scale epidemiological studies all report the same clear relationship: the shorter your sleep, the shorter your life. To take just one example, adults aged 45 years or older who sleep less than six hours a night are 200% more likely to have a heart attack or stroke in their lifetime, as compared with those sleeping seven or eight hours a night (part of the reason for this has to do with blood pressure: even just one night of modest sleep reduction will speed the rate of a person’s heart, hour upon hour, and significantly increase their blood pressure).
A lack of sleep also appears to hijack the body’s effective control of blood sugar, the cells of the sleep-deprived appearing, in experiments, to become less responsive to insulin, and thus to cause a prediabetic state of hyperglycaemia. When your sleep becomes short, moreover, you are susceptible to weight gain. Among the reasons for this are the fact that inadequate sleep decreases levels of the satiety-signalling hormone, leptin, and increases levels of the hunger-signalling hormone, ghrelin. “I’m not going to say that the obesity crisis is caused by the sleep-loss epidemic alone,” says Walker. “It’s not. However, processed food and sedentary lifestyles do not adequately explain its rise. Something is missing. It’s now clear that sleep is that third ingredient.” Tiredness, of course, also affects motivation.
Sleep has a powerful effect on the immune system, which is why, when we have flu, our first instinct is to go to bed: our body is trying to sleep itself well. Reduce sleep even for a single night, and your resilience is drastically reduced. If you are tired, you are more likely to catch a cold. The well-rested also respond better to the flu vaccine. As Walker has already said, more gravely, studies show that short sleep can affect our cancer-fighting immune cells. A number of epidemiological studies have reported that night-time shift work and the disruption to circadian sleep and rhythms that it causes increase the odds of developing cancers including breast, prostate, endometrium and colon.
Getting too little sleep across the adult lifespan will significantly raise your risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease. The reasons for this are difficult to summarise, but in essence it has to do with the amyloid deposits (a toxin protein) that accumulate in the brains of those suffering from the disease, killing the surrounding cells. During deep sleep, such deposits are effectively cleaned from the brain. What occurs in an Alzheimer’s patient is a kind of vicious circle. Without sufficient sleep, these plaques build up, especially in the brain’s deep-sleep-generating regions, attacking and degrading them. The loss of deep sleep caused by this assault therefore lessens our ability to remove them from the brain at night. More amyloid, less deep sleep; less deep sleep, more amyloid, and so on. (In his book, Walker notes “unscientifically” that he has always found it curious that Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan, both of whom were vocal about how little sleep they needed, both went on to develop the disease; it is, moreover, a myth that older adults need less sleep.) Away from dementia, sleep aids our ability to make new memories, and restores our capacity for learning.
And then there is sleep’s effect on mental health. When your mother told you that everything would look better in the morning, she was wise. Walker’s book includes a long section on dreams (which, says Walker, contrary to Dr Freud, cannot be analysed). Here he details the various ways in which the dream state connects to creativity. He also suggests that dreaming is a soothing balm. If we sleep to remember (see above), then we also sleep to forget. Deep sleep – the part when we begin to dream – is a therapeutic state during which we cast off the emotional charge of our experiences, making them easier to bear. Sleep, or a lack of it, also affects our mood more generally. Brain scans carried out by Walker revealed a 60% amplification in the reactivity of the amygdala – a key spot for triggering anger and rage – in those who were sleep-deprived. In children, sleeplessness has been linked to aggression and bullying; in adolescents, to suicidal thoughts. Insufficient sleep is also associated with relapse in addiction disorders. A prevailing view in psychiatry is that mental disorders cause sleep disruption. But Walker believes it is, in fact, a two-way street. Regulated sleep can improve the health of, for instance, those with bipolar disorder.
I’ve mentioned deep sleep in this (too brief) summary several times. What is it, exactly? We sleep in 90-minute cycles, and it’s only towards the end of each one of these that we go into deep sleep. Each cycle comprises two kinds of sleep. First, there is NREM sleep (non-rapid eye movement sleep); this is then followed by REM (rapid eye movement) sleep. When Walker talks about these cycles, which still have their mysteries, his voice changes. He sounds bewitched, almost dazed.
“During NREM sleep, your brain goes into this incredible synchronised pattern of rhythmic chanting,” he says. “There’s a remarkable unity across the surface of the brain, like a deep, slow mantra. Researchers were once fooled that this state was similar to a coma. But nothing could be further from the truth. Vast amounts of memory processing is going on. To produce these brainwaves, hundreds of thousands of cells all sing together, and then go silent, and on and on. Meanwhile, your body settles into this lovely low state of energy, the best blood-pressure medicine you could ever hope for. REM sleep, on the other hand, is sometimes known as paradoxical sleep, because the brain patterns are identical to when you’re awake. It’s an incredibly active brain state. Your heart and nervous system go through spurts of activity: we’re still not exactly sure why.”
Does the 90-minute cycle mean that so-called power naps are worthless? “They can take the edge off basic sleepiness. But you need 90 minutes to get to deep sleep, and one cycle isn’t enough to do all the work. You need four or five cycles to get all the benefit.” Is it possible to have too much sleep? This is unclear. “There is no good evidence at the moment. But I do think 14 hours is too much. Too much water can kill you, and too much food, and I think ultimately the same will prove to be true for sleep.” How is it possible to tell if a person is sleep-deprived? Walker thinks we should trust our instincts. Those who would sleep on if their alarm clock was turned off are simply not getting enough. Ditto those who need caffeine in the afternoon to stay awake. “I see it all the time,” he says. “I get on a flight at 10am when people should be at peak alert, and I look around, and half of the plane has immediately fallen asleep.”
So what can the individual do? First, they should avoid pulling “all-nighters”, at their desks or on the dancefloor. After being awake for 19 hours, you’re as cognitively impaired as someone who is drunk. Second, they should start thinking about sleep as a kind of work, like going to the gym (with the key difference that it is both free and, if you’re me, enjoyable). “People use alarms to wake up,” Walker says. “So why don’t we have a bedtime alarm to tell us we’ve got half an hour, that we should start cycling down?” We should start thinking of midnight more in terms of its original meaning: as the middle of the night. Schools should consider later starts for students; such delays correlate with improved IQs. Companies should think about rewarding sleep. Productivity will rise, and motivation, creativity and even levels of honesty will be improved. Sleep can be measured using tracking devices, and some far-sighted companies in the US already give employees time off if they clock enough of it. Sleeping pills, by the way, are to be avoided. Among other things, they can have a deleterious effect on memory.
Those who are focused on so-called “clean” sleep are determined to outlaw mobiles and computers from the bedroom – and quite right, too, given the effect of LED-emitting devices on melatonin, the sleep-inducing hormone. Ultimately, though, Walker believes that technology will be sleep’s saviour. “There is going to be a revolution in the quantified self in industrial nations,” he says. “We will know everything about our bodies from one day to the next in high fidelity. That will be a seismic shift, and we will then start to develop methods by which we can amplify different components of human sleep, and do that from the bedside. Sleep will come to be seen as a preventive medicine.”
What questions does Walker still most want to answer? For a while, he is quiet. “It’s so difficult,” he says, with a sigh. “There are so many. I would still like to know where we go, psychologically and physiologically, when we dream. Dreaming is the second state of human consciousness, and we have only scratched the surface so far. But I would also like to find out when sleep emerged. I like to posit a ridiculous theory, which is: perhaps sleep did not evolve. Perhaps it was the thing from which wakefulness emerged.” He laughs. “If I could have some kind of medical Tardis and go back in time to look at that, well, I would sleep better at night.”
• Why We Sleep: The New Science of Sleep and Dreams by Matthew Walker is published by Allen Lane (£20). To order a copy for £17 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
■ Two-thirds of adults in developed nations fail to obtain the nightly eight hours of sleep recommended by the World Health Organisation.
■ An adult sleeping only 6.75 hours a night would be predicted to live only to their early 60s without medical intervention.
■ A 2013 study reported that men who slept too little had a sperm count 29% lower than those who regularly get a full and restful night’s sleep.
■ If you drive a car when you have had less than five hours’ sleep, you are 4.3 times more likely to be involved in a crash. If you drive having had four hours, you are 11.5 times more likely to be involved in an accident.
■ A hot bath aids sleep not because it makes you warm, but because your dilated blood vessels radiate inner heat, and your core body temperature drops. To successfully initiate sleep, your core temperature needs to drop about 1C.
■ The time taken to reach physical exhaustion by athletes who obtain anything less than eight hours of sleep, and especially less than six hours, drops by 10-30%.
■ There are now more than 100 diagnosed sleep disorders, of which insomnia is the most common.
■ Morning types, who prefer to awake at or around dawn, make up about 40% of the population. Evening types, who prefer to go to bed late and wake up late, account for about 30%. The remaining 30% lie somewhere in between.
!!!@@@$$$

I went into Oslo expecting to be informed, and fairly confident of being interested. I did not expect to find myself following the plot as eagerly as if it were a whodunnit to which I didn’t know the ending, or often to be laughing – or to find myself once on the brink of tears.
JT Rogers’s play, first seen last year at the Lincoln Center, is the story of a peace process; it is almost wall to wall men in suits. But the events it elucidates are riveting. Improbably, the secret talks that led to the 1993 Oslo accords, the first agreement ever struck between the Palestine Liberation Organisation and the state of Israel, were organised not through official channels but by a Norwegian academic and his diplomat wife. The negotiators were served waffles. The US was not told of the encounters. Yet later that year Yasser Arafat and Yitzhak Rabin were shaking hands on the lawn of the White House. There were sobs of joyful surprise from witnesses as agreement was reached. The sobs provoked by watching this now are bitter: by the end of the decade the accord was in tatters.
Rogers’s play is not verbatim theatre but a reimagining. With fierce individual confrontations and high-powered comic eruptions. Philip Arditti is a chameleon Israeli negotiator who swivels from seductor to boa constrictor with a shimmy of his snake hips. He does provocative take-offs, not only of Henry Kissinger but also (jacket backwards over the head) Arafat. From the PLO, Peter Polycarpou is explosive and expansive. Both of them have daughters called Maya.
Bartlett Sher’s incisive production makes debate look like action. Which is part of Rogers’s point: talking is a deed – and may replace an act of war. Against the odds, the evening is truly theatrical – because it is essentially a backstage story. It makes most “news” look like mere window dressing.
As the Norwegian prime mover, Toby Stephens is a magnetic mixture of inspired enterprise and self-promotion. He moves like a spin doctor. With perhaps a touch too much flounce. He begins to look as if he is on the brink of doing an imitation of himself: has he inherited this from his mother, Maggie Smith? Lydia Leonard draws all eyes by her extraordinary composure. Limpid but sceptical, she is one of the most interesting actors currently on stage. The production moves to the West End next month.
• At the Harold Pinter theatre, London SW1, from 2 October until 30 December
!!!@@@$$$

Terry Johnson has given himself a hard task with the clever title of his new play. Prism promises focus and transformation – a turning of white light into colour, a moment of concentration, and a skewed look at the world. It is too much to pull off. Even though he has alighted on a fascinating subject: the cinematographer Jack Cardiff, who worked alongside Powell and Pressburger and John Huston and with Monroe, Dietrich and Hepburn – and who is now suffering from dementia. Even though Johnson benefits from Tim Shortall’s marvellously revealing design, which conjures both reality and the encroaching fantasy. A garage converted into a studio perches in front of a video projection of the swampy river in The African Queen. Even though Claire Skinner proves a revelation as Katharine Hepburn – catching her loftiness, beauty and faux hesitancy with a tilt of the head and waterfall voice.
Johnson, who directs his own work, has created a witty, touching series of scenes. They beautifully flicker without absolutely peaking. The part of Cardiff was written for Robert Lindsay and he shrugs it on like a second skin. He is laddish, obsessional. He brings a touch of his performance as Archie Rice in The Entertainer to the role, but never overplays the fading swagger. He does not do dottiness: he is like an overexposed photograph – or a puddle shrinking in the sun. Familiar words are disappearing: “big chap, white beard, sits in heaven” – who could that be? Familiar faces go unrecognised. Memories begin to elbow out reactions to the present: “the past is all we have.” Which means that old screen idols become more real than today’s flesh and blood. In an inspired moment he suddenly calls his forgotten wife by her name, speaking to her warmly. She breaks down. He has been repeating lines from A Matter of Life and Death.
• At the Hampstead theatre until 14 October
!!!@@@$$$

A tale of sporting rivalry is given a brooding, introspective Scandinavian twist by Janus Metz, hitherto best known for his award-winning documentary Armadillo. Stoic, seemingly unflappable Björn Borg (Sverrir Gudnason) and volatile, temperamental brat John McEnroe (Shia LaBeouf) competed for the Wimbledon title in 1980. On paper, it was a clash of opposites. But in fact, this film argues that the two men had more in common than anyone suspected at the time. Ice-man Borg, the main focus of this film, was in fact a volcano; his obsession with detail, his superstitions, were all part of the meticulous control mechanism he constructed to prevent the eruptions of anger that so tarnished McEnroe’s early reputation.
Whether or not you know the outcome, this is a cracking watch. Metz captures the period effectively – the Mondrian-style colour blocks of the tennis court; the saturated, synthetic palette of the 1970s and early 1980s. But the performances carry the film. The two competitors are exceptionally well cast: LaBeouf is a little old for the role but conveys McEnroe’s isolation and vulnerability along with the adolescent petulance. But Gudnason is remarkable; not only is he an uncanny physical match, he also manages to combine a stewing inner turmoil with a demeanour that is as impassive as a blank scoreboard.
!!!@@@$$$

Flag is magnificent: a vision of glory in blood red, deep blue and the white of whipped waves. Each star on this spangled banner has a different character – pristine, ungainly, hiding beneath the brushstrokes – and the stripes are all rich impasto, heavily worked as a Rembrandt. The sheer grandeur of Jasper Johns’s 1967 masterpiece, which opens this show, irresistibly invokes old master art. Nobody in their right mind, you might think, could ever take it for a flag.
Yet this has been the steady claim pretty much since Johns painted his first US flag back in 1954. The picture was a sign for the very thing it signified. Was it a painted flag, patriotic and proud, or a painting of a flag that might not be either? What was its status? The artist (born in 1930) was credited with changing the way we look at pictures, and he continued this radical project with numbers, targets, maps and words, “things the mind already knows”, as he famously put it, and all abundantly represented here. You see the numbers, but don’t count them. You view the target without thinking of arrows. Johns turns symbols into abstractions.
Or does he? The surprise of this colossal survey, the first in Britain for 40 years, is just how moving these early works are. The flag hangs downwards and is suddenly funereal. Or it is lost, a lone star barely visible in a white blizzard. Or it seems to disappear into a marvellous drawing that nonetheless evokes, through cross-hatching, the flag’s thin fabric. Are these works political, like the maps that turn America upside down, or is their meaning more personal? This question hangs over the show.
There is the most forceful sense of Johns trying to get as much into – and out of – a picture as he can
The first gallery runs the gamut of Johns’s early career with great verve, gathering up the number pieces in monochrome and colour, bronze and aluminium, along with the cast-bronze Balantine beer cans, the iron lightbulbs and many of the word works, where the names of primary colours appear in Johns’s habitual stencil against opposing colours, setting off a cognitive dissonance only marginally more disruptive when the same words appear against the artist’s trademark grey.
Anyone can see that the emphasis is on the making, the handling of metal, lush oil and encaustic, where pigment is suspended in wax, giving each brush mark a strong materiality, the brilliant use of chalk and graphite. But a darkly beautiful drawing of a coat hanger, and another of two empty hooks, imply someone lost or departed. And Tennyson, a downpour of black pastel marks, resembles a gravestone, the poet’s name in capitals at the bottom: a pictorial homage, one feels, to Tennyson’s In Memoriam.
The predominant tone is pensive here and even romantic. Periscope (Hart Crane), from 1963, plays colour words against a storm of grey paint in true Johns style but there is also the eponymous periscope, a black hand print clinging to its edge above a single dire arrow pointing downwards. The American poet Hart Crane killed himself by throwing himself from a ship at 32, Johns’s age when he painted this work, in which his own hand reaches back to the poet.
A painting is an object as well as an image; very few artists have made quite such a point of this fact. At the Royal Academy, there is the most forceful sense of Johns trying to get as much into – and out of – a picture as he can, pressing his face, hands and torso into the painting, cutting the canvas in two, showing its back, hanging a loop of string from one side to the other that sheds a shadow line across the surface. The word “No” emits bodily from one canvas, dangling on a wire, leaving a No-shaped wound in the paint. Knives and forks dig and delve. The thick encaustic surface of another canvas bears savage tooth marks. It’s called Painting Bitten By a Man.
So far, so electrifying. But these paintings are all from the 1950s and 60s. Johns’s work thereafter takes what is surely one of the sharpest nosedives in art. This show’s curators have tried to pull off a three-card trick by shuffling the exhibits thematically, so that one almost loses sight of the chronology. But even the themes expose him. In the 1970s, for instance, Johns analysed the mark-making and palette of Edvard Munch’s Between the Clock and the Bed in a long series of almost classically boring pattern paintings that imitate Munch’s hatched brush marks without beginning to touch on the tragedy of that lonely self-portrait.
And even quite early on, Johns began to quote from his own works in the most self-mythologising way. One painting might include not just flags and stencils, but numbers and Balantine cans; another will incorporate family photographs, fragments of art history and veiled allusions to body parts, so that the viewer is aware of (but excluded from) some offstage private history. This is his modus operandi even today. What was melancholy starts to feel mawkish through constant repetition; what was original and tender starts to look slightly kitsch. The elements pile up, disconnected, turning poetry into prose.
• Jasper Johns: Something Resembling Truth is at the Royal Academy, London, until 10 December
!!!@@@$$$

After 2014’s slightly aimless Luminous, the Horrors’ fifth album finds them recapturing the focus of their earlier triumphs. The expansive melange of psychedelia and krautrock, embellished with synths and electronic flourishes, which they established on Primary Colours, is still the lingua franca, but there’s a greater consistency to the songwriting this time around. Indeed, from an icily detached Faris Badwan channelling his inner Gary Numan on slowly grinding opener Hologram through to the euphoric Moroder-influenced disco wig-out Something to Remember Me By that closes proceedings 54 minutes later, there isn’t a weak link. It makes for their most cohesive album yet.
!!!@@@$$$

“He’s a guggling midden-daup”; “As glumpy as a corpse”: the dialogue is rich in dialect, strong of accent. To understand every word – it’s impossible! But not a jot of meaning is lost. A variegated ensemble of theatre-savvy actors delivers characterisations as broad and as vivid as the language. Action cracks along on a staging that is sharply suggestive and infinitely adaptable. Blake Morrison’s new adaptation of Lesage’s 18th-century satirical French comedy Turcaret (original subtitle, The Financial System) is classic Northern Broadsides.
Twenty-five years ago, Barrie Rutter founded this company to give regional theatregoers a chance to hear the same accents on stage as were spoken in the auditorium (or in the boatshed, the cattle market, mill – wherever best suited the production or audience). Comedies and tragedies, translations, adaptations, new commissions and classics (ancient and modern) – 70-odd productions followed.
Then, last July, Rutter resigned as artistic director. The Arts Council had decided not to increase the company’s funding (for reasons unclear to me).
So, For Love or Money is Rutter’s last touring production as director/performer with the company he created. The action, relocated to a small Yorkshire town in the 1920s, spins with a crazy, clockwork precision around a triangle summarised by wily servant, Jack (canny Jordan Metcalfe): “The banker gives to t’widow./ The widow gives to t’lover./ The lover gives to no one./ He keeps it all himsen.” Naturally, Jack is determined to insert his own “sen” – and Lisa, his intended – into this venal bill of exchange.
With such a whirligig of vice, it can be hard to invest in characters’ fates, but performances that expose the raw desires behind behaviours pay dividends in pleasure. Rutter’s puffed-up banker, Sarah-Jane Potts’s faux-naif widow and Sarah Parks’s cracked “belle”, in particular, discharge sterling performances in this capital, nine-strong ensemble.
• For Love or Money is at West Yorkshire Playhouse, Leeds, from 26 to 30 September. Box office: 0113 213 7700. Then touring until 2 December.
!!!@@@$$$

The second album in 12 months by MC Taylor’s Hiss Golden Messenger is shot through with both darkness and light. From the heady opener Jenny of the Roses (“I’ve never been afraid of the darkness”) to the closing When the Wall Comes Down, there are several allusions to the dark, while Taylor’s mystical brand of country-soul has a rapturous quality rarely found in rock. It’s there in Jaw, one of the gentler tracks, all fidgety rhythms and Taylor’s husky voice, and in the aching Gulfport You’ve Been on My Mind. But every song possesses passion and gravitas, making Hallelujah Anyhow a spiritual descendant of Van Morrison’s Veedon Fleece.
!!!@@@$$$

Rudy Smith and his instrument, the steel pan, were born at the same place and time, Trinidad in the 1940s, and if there are any other jazz virtuosi of the instrument, I have yet to encounter them. He is a delightfully fluent and straightforward jazz soloist, which can’t be easy on an instrument that provides no means of sustaining notes. In his quartet, the plangent tone of the alto pan blends with the piano of Ole Matthiessen to create an unusual and delicate unison. Their long and close collaboration, with Matthiessen composing much of the material, has resulted in a serious and attractive jazz ensemble.
!!!@@@$$$

Six years after Jesus took his cross through the streets of Port Talbot, National Theatre Wales has returned, with a blast, to the town. Back in 2011, Michael Sheen carried the weight. Now come other great men, dressed in hard hats and hi-vis, to give us another epic of us versus them.
We’re Still Here explores the lives of the steelworkers at the huge Tata-owned plant that dominates Port Talbot’s skyline and its history. It specifically zones in on the plant’s recent past: the threat of closure in 2015, when 750 people lost their jobs. Steel hasn’t been a reliable career for many years, as I know: my stepfather retired from Port Talbot in 2011 after three career redundancies, while my oldest friend has worked on-site for nine years, and is now wondering what Tata’s merger with ThyssenKrupp will mean (she accompanies me tonight).
This play also feels timely: phrases such as “nobody listens, nothing changes” feel freshly urgent in post-Grenfell Britain. These are clamouring calls from the working class, voices from endgames refusing to concede.
But, worryingly, my friend hadn’t heard of the play before today, nor had many colleagues. Surely theatre can only affect communities if it properly connects with them? The venue is also experimental: a huge disused warehouse 10 minutes’ walk from the train station, where the audience has to promenade, with little seating. How many Port Talbot workers will come after work to something high-concept and low-comfort? (“Thirty-five years of hard labour,” the play tells us, “does things to the body.”) But from the lulling accents in the crowd, some did come, and hopefully others will too, given the strength of this powerful production.
The cavernous setting was wonderfully effective, set pieces acted out amid rubble and dead flowers, forcing us into these characters’ intimate worlds. The dialogue also worked marvels, full of restorative local dialect and bucketloads of hwyl (a particularly Welsh, gutsy, gung-ho). Based on interviews with locals, the banter, camaraderie, and despair of the main players – four steelworkers and a union rep – had me in stitches and in tears.
It all felt very real. So did a section when a crowd were reading out the names of the redundant in the form of a wild, abstract round, before some members peeled off to tell tiny groups of us their real stories – and these were real people. That gear-change had power.
Another real person making an impact was Sam Coombes, a 29-year-old steelworker whose last role was in his local rugby club panto. In the midst of the professional actors, his was an affecting performance, sadness and anger teeming through him. Talented local teenagers also joined the set, telling us about similar situations in Scotland, America and China, though the older men couldn’t see them. Instead, they stood stunned, hearing distant footsteps, and ghostly calls. They reminded us that steel used to give this community a legacy, rather than a constant reminder that the future in Port Talbot remains eerily unknown.
We’re Still Here gives a voice to that terror, reminding us of a huge story that’s still worth retelling.
• We’re Still Here, Byass Works, Port Talbot, until 30 September. Box office: 029 2037 1689
!!!@@@$$$

This is a code-red warning. I repeat, code red. You may be in the mood for a piece of trashy fun this weekend. You might have embraced the slick anarchy of the first Kingsman movie. But on no account let that persuade you to part with your money for a ticket to this sour-spirited and glib sequel. Taron Egerton returns as Eggsy, newest recruit of the elite secret agency Kingsman. He does a decent job of the two key requirements of the role: wearing suits and hitting people. But an early plot twist requires him to emote, at which point the whole house of cards tumbles down.
I didn’t think it was possible for someone to both grieve and smirk at the same time, but apparently it is. In fact, the whole film is a knowing sneer of a movie that shrugs off its plot holes along with a particularly unsavoury attitude to violence and a tendency to use female characters as the decorative punchline to jokes. Most annoying is that the film ignores the basic rules of physics, with a profoundly stupid cable-car action sequence that gave me the absolute rage.
!!!@@@$$$

A member of Yorkshire’s Waterson/Carthy folk dynasty, Marry sings in a style reminiscent of her late mother, Lal, and her aunt Norma; strong but plaintive, with a tendency to wistfulness that comes through on this set of originals around the theme of loss. David A Jaycock’s intricate acoustic guitar provides a sweet foil, creating a dreamy atmosphere on New Love Song and a title track about a maiden’s death. Producer Adrian Utley (of Portishead) is content to keep things simple; opener The Vain Jackdaw, based on an Aesop fable, recorded unaccompanied on a rooftop, is delightful, but elsewhere the mood remains relentlessly forlorn.
!!!@@@$$$

Niall Ferguson is not the kind of historian who suffers from understatement. He writes big, muscular books with high-concept ideas that target current concerns through the prism of the past. They are pull-yourself-together warnings to the present by way of arresting historical precedent.
In The Great Degeneration (2013) he describes the collapse of the institutions on which the west made its success. His 2011 book Civilisation was subtitled, with a market eye on contemporary buzzwords, The Six Killer Apps of Western Power. His latest book, The Square and Tower: Networks, Hierarchies and the Struggle for Global Power, claims to be “a whole new way of looking at the world”.
That seems like publisher’s hyperbole. The study of networks is not only all the rage in our “hooked up” era but, as Ferguson acknowledges, several historians and plenty of sociologists have been this way before.
The thrust of Ferguson’s argument is that the world is shaped by two distinct organisational forces: hierarchies and networks. This often seems a distinction without a great – or great enough – difference. Most networks are hierarchical, after all, and there are few hierarchies that are not in some sense part of a wider network.
But the division made, it gives a structure that allows Ferguson to do what he does best, which is to jump around history taking fascinating empirical facts from one place, compelling anecdotes from another, and pulling it all together into a powerful fast-paced narrative.
The problem is that there are simply too many strands and too much disparate information for a coherent thesis to emerge. Indeed, such is Ferguson’s restless desire to uncover connectedness that he can sound like a conspiracy theorist, though he is at pains to distance himself from that perspective. As he notes in the preface, conspiracy theorists see networks as hidden elites in cahoots with the established power structure, while far more often, he argues, networks disrupt the status quo.
But in revisiting such conspiracist tales – the Illuminati and the Rothschilds, for example – he confuses as much as demystifies. The Illuminati, a small 18th-century German order that sought to disseminate Enlightenment ideals, came to be seen – falsely – as the orchestrators of the French Revolution, and, by the modern crank tendency, as the puppet-masters behind everything.
As Ferguson notes, the Illuminati survived by infiltrating the Freemasons, where they achieved little, ultimately collapsing and disappearing long before they were adopted by the lunatic fringe as the all-purpose sinister “they”. So what was their significance? Ferguson doesn’t really explain, other than to say that they were an example of the intellectual networks that were “an integral part of the complex historical process that led Europe from Enlightenment to Revolution to Empire”.
From someone who is not bashful about making bold statements, this is a deeply underwhelming conclusion. But it stands as the basis for his case about the ambiguous, not always progressive nature of networks. It’s an argument that takes in the house of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, the Cambridge Apostles, the Taiping revolt, Henry Kissinger, al-Qaida and so much else besides, right up to Twitter and Donald Trump.
The effect is dizzying more​ than​ stimulating. Ferguson’s breadth of learning is often impressive, but by the end of the book I was little more secure in my understanding of what ​he was trying to get at than at the beginning.
• The Square and the Tower by Niall Ferguson is published by Allen Lane (£25). To order a copy for for £21.25, go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 8646. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

Reintroducing a little electronic hauteur to the airpunch anthemics of 2012’s Battle Born, the Killers’ fifth album opens impressively with the reptilian title track, reminiscent of Achtung Baby-era U2, and the glossy, ironic funk of The Man. Misgivings hover, though, around frontman Brandon Flowers overcoming writer’s block by drawing on his initially reluctant wife’s abusive childhood and PTSD (and enlisting their three young sons to sing “Can’t do this alone/ We need you at home” on the airy, dreamy Some Kind of Love). The most striking song (discounting the Personal Jesus reenactment The Calling) draws on Flowers’ own childhood experience: the surging, synth-laced Tyson vs Douglas, inspired by his shock when the champ hit the mat, could touch gloves with the band’s best.
!!!@@@$$$

Part documentary, part fiction, this profound, elegiac picture is as trickily undefinable as its subject, the city of Cairo in the two years in the run-up to the Egyptian revolution in 2011. The film uses the device of a fictional film-maker grappling with a documentary portrait of his home city, a mercurial subject, as he struggles with more quotidian concerns such as the quest to find somewhere to live. Woven into the story are messages from friends – video missives from Berlin, Baghdad and Beirut – and documentary footage of the city.
It’s a work of gentle, swelling sadness that mourns a spirit of artistic and creative freedom quashed and it has become something of a cause celebre, since it was effectively banned in Egypt after being unceremoniously pulled from the Cairo international film festival last year.
!!!@@@$$$

The Californian singer’s second album finds her teeming with ambition: opener Hungry is all sassy delivery and theatrical production that prove Fergie an unstoppable force of hip-hop-infused pop. It’s a strong start, though what follows is surreal – be it alluding to Pharoahe Monch (encouraging ladies to “rub your boobies”) or the jarring juxtaposition of hyperactive single MILF$ leading into a power ballad. But with sumptuous, old-school beats, plus guest spots from Rick Ross, Nicki Minaj and Fergie’s toddler son, Double Dutchess is fun and gloriously confident, cementing Fergie’s place in pop royalty.
!!!@@@$$$

Having placed Bach’s St John Passion in its liturgical context for recent performances, John Butt’s excellent Dunedin Consort now do the reverse with Monteverdi’s publication of vespers music. Gone are all plainsong antiphons and other contextual additions; what is presented instead is a varied collection of individual pieces of sacred music. This is a shock, though the recording sounds fresh and clear, emphasising transparency without a big reverberant acoustic. But the voices that suit Butt so well in Bach do not quite have the edge for the Italian rhetoric of Monteverdi; not much here is as exciting as Nigel Rogers in Andrew Parrott’s famous small-scale recording.
!!!@@@$$$

A 17-year-old girl learns the ropes in a massive Chinese funeral home, in this slight but sporadically amusing documentary. Ying Ling is our window into a closed world. The industry of death in China is one that comes with rituals, taboos and a slick business model. But, morbidly fascinating as the world is, Ying Ling is not a strong enough character to carry the entire film.
!!!@@@$$$

Director David Rosenberg and choreographer Frauke Requardt have a history of serving up strange, unsettling work. Their three site-specific collaborations to date (The Roof, Electric Hotel, Motor Show) have all been performed outside, but with DeadClub they bring the weirdness up close.
The action takes place on a raised stage around which the audience stand in numbered places. We are party to all the illusions – all the wires, trapdoors and props – that underpin the show. Our complicity and the overtly contrived nature of the staging are essential elements of this entertaining meditation on mortality. The central premise appears to be that some sort of fatal event, perhaps an explosion in a nightclub, has overtaken the five performers, who are then propelled into a space-time loop in which refracted versions of the evening play out for eternity. Or something like that. Like all the best nightmares, DeadClub is constructed on shifting foundations.
Requardt and Rosenberg have fun with the idea of the nightclub as a place of alternative identity and disguise. The performers (Jordan Ajadi, Ruben Brown, Neil Callaghan, Valentina Fermenti, Owen Ridley-DeMonick) appear in a succession of knowingly kitsch tableaux. A chanteuse performs in a tawdry frilled dress, a male crooner delivers not-quite-comprehensible lyrics, go-go boys strut and grind absurdly in shorts and court shoes.
There are echoes of David Lynch’s Blue Velvet, of Crystal Pite and Jonathon Young’s Betroffenheit, of the paintings of Roxana Halls. Threading through these unheimlich archetypes is a shocked, abject figure in shredded underpants. At one point, he’s holding a severed arm, at another, the lifeless body of a deer. He’s the protagonist, the victim of the piece and we identify with his confusion because we don’t know what’s going on either.
A strong feature of the work is Dave Price’s sound design, which progresses from the idiosyncratic to the hellish, with the final minutes played out to sinister industrial percussion. At intervals, a light swings around the stage boundaries, coming to rest, at random, on the face of an audience member. If your number’s up, Rosenberg and Requardt remind us, it’s up. Welcome to DeadClub.
• DeadClub is at The Place, London WC1, until 30 September. Box office: 020 7121 1100
!!!@@@$$$

There’s a group that’s not a group, a movement that doesn’t call itself a movement, an affinity of architects, a “constellation” as one of them calls it, whose time has come. It has been gathering influence for years if not decades and is known among architectural cognoscenti to the point where it is almost old hat, but it is at the moment when it is starting to shape buildings and bits of cities in ways that everyone else might notice.
These architects pay close attention to the fact and detail of the making of buildings – with what actually happens when something is made in one way rather than another, with the properties of scale, light, proportion and material. Their interest isn’t just technical or about craft, but is motivated by the human and social qualities, the physical, emotional and intellectual interrelationships that a built space can encourage. So they combine a care about the specifics of architecture with an awareness of the world beyond it, of both other forms of art and of the everyday.
Examples of this attitude can be found in Horizontal City, a display at this year’s Chicago Architecture Biennial, where architects were asked to choose a favourite interior and create a new installation inspired by it. Some chose great rooms from the history of architecture – the vast Pantheon in Rome, the tiny and exquisite American Bar that Adolf Loos created in Vienna in 1908 – others unbuilt spaces imagined by architectural visionaries or places made significant by their inhabitants. The New York architects Charlap Hyman & Herrero chose the apartment where Yves Saint Laurent lived with his partner, Pierre Berge, and a wondrous collection of art and design. The German-American practice June 14 chose the bar of the Folies-Bergère, as seen in Manet’s famous painting.
The cities of the world will be better places if these architects get more say in their design
The exhibitors turn these inspirations into, for example, three simple cardboard-and-paper models that show Saint Laurent’s home being progressively stripped of its contents after his death. The Folies-Bergère is remade as a mirrored bar (reflection being a significant element of the Manet) surmounted by bright, simplified versions of the bottles and fruit you see in the painting. The point is that all these interiors are architecture, whether designed by named architects or not, and they acquire their meaning from the interaction of their physical properties and the lives they contain. Another layer of meaning is given by their representation in the biennial – the poignant fragility of the models of the Saint Laurent flat and the garishness of the Manet bar which, beneath the varnish of reverence conferred by its status as great art, it would originally have had.
The biennial, the second to be held in Chicago, is something of a coming-out party for this nebulous fraternity. It is directed by Sharon Johnston and Mark Lee, whose Los Angeles-based practice, Johnston Marklee, is now progressing from refined and subtle private houses to refined and subtle cultural buildings, such as a nearly finished addition to the Menil Collection in Houston. They have welcomed into their tent a multinational gathering, with participants from China, India, Chile, Mexico and Colombia, if with a European tilt. Belgium and Switzerland, countries where these kinds of architecture have flourished, are well represented. There are also several British exhibitors, including Caruso St John, 6a, Jack Self and Sam Jacob, formerly of FAT.
Johnston and Lee have called their show Make New History, with the idea of showing how an “open and free” attitude to the past can help generate ideas for the future. History for them can mean many things – canonical or obscure works of architecture, popular or cultural history. It’s part of the business of making connections that go beyond the design of singular buildings. It’s also part of what makes any discipline, architecture included, work: the fact that it is drawing on the experiences of others, not operating in a vacuum.
Examples of this version of history include built and proposed projects, and exhibits made specially for the biennial. There is the modification of the hutongs, the traditional courtyard housing in Beijing, by ZAO/standardarchitecture, through adding tiny libraries and other structures, as an alternative to either demolition or kitsch restoration. There is the Chapel for Scenes of Public Life, an installation by Baukuh and Stefano Graziani of Italy, a version of a renaissance chapel that has been shrunk in size and decorated with pop art graphics, so as to provoke musings on scale and the symbolic meanings of buildings.
What the architects on show don’t want to be is an original genius, someone who produces visions out of nothing. So there’s quite a lot of copying, cutting and pasting, appropriating old things to make new ones. Keith Krumwiede of New York creates funny satirical images in which modern suburban housing pops up in great landscape paintings of the past. Sam Jacob and Tatiana Bilbao of Mexico separately propose towers collaged out of arcades, temples and other fragments.
All of this takes place against the backdrop of further layers of history, in the form of the Chicago Cultural Center, an ornate former library, and beyond that the imposing buildings of Chicago. Often the exhibits play off this setting, as when gracile bamboo towers by Studio Mumbai can be seen in front of heftier concrete and steel blocks outside the window.
The show’s grandest, most crowd-pleasing moment is Vertical City, for which architects were invited to submit very late entries for the Chicago Tribune tower competition of 1922, which asked for the “most beautiful office building in the world” and became famous for rejecting entries by Walter Gropius and Adolf Loos. The architects invited this time are not the sort who often get to design skyscrapers and they come up with a room full of slender models – like Jacob’s and Bilbao’s, and a nice example of woodturners’ art designed by 6a – which, while they should not be taken too literally, are refreshing alternatives to the stagnant mainstream of tall building design.
The Chicago biennial shows nuanced, subtle stuff, and it’s sometimes easier to say what these architects are not than what they are. They are not iconic, futuristic or dogmatic. They don’t claim to save the world – which, one suspects, the next generation of architects will want to do. They don’t go in for manifestos or stylistic labels, for which reason a collective celebration like the Chicago biennial has been slow to happen. Now it has, it’s an important event. Fundamentally, this stuff is good – the cities of the world will be better places if these architects get more say in their design.
It’s an engaging show, although some of the exhibits assume a knowledge of architectural history that most of the general public won’t have, and some of them require a bit of work to appreciate. Here the biennial’s biggest weakness – wilfully opaque captions – verges on the catastrophic, as it converts what could and should be accessible into something intimidating and masonic. They should be changed if at all possible. If you’re not in the business I wouldn’t recommend you cross the Atlantic for it. On the other hand, it’s as good an occasion as any to visit the architecturally astounding city of Chicago.
• Chicago Architecture Biennial, until 7 January 2018
!!!@@@$$$

Cinema might be guilty of creating many of the cliches of romance, but, occasionally at least, it also destroys them. And this year brings two particularly strong examples of the latter. On Body and Soul, the Berlin Golden Bear-winning account of two outcasts who find love in a Hungarian abattoir, might not have the showy impact of Guillermo Del Toro’s forthcoming The Shape of Water (mute cleaner hooks up with fish monster) but the pictures share two things. Both combine the fantastic and idiosyncratic to beguiling effect; both rewrite the rules that govern who is deemed worthy of love in the movies.
The two main characters in On Body and Soul are Endre (Géza Morcsányi), the reserved manager of a slaughterhouse who hides his emotions along with his useless left arm, and Maria (Alexandra Borbély), the new quality-control manager at the plant. It’s never explained, but Maria seems to be on the autistic spectrum. She struggles with the banal to-and-fro of social interaction and recoils from physical contact. But at night, she and Endre share the same dreams – a mystical but matter-of-fact connection that transforms both into deer in a sparkling winter woodland.
The film gets much of its considerable impact from director Ildikó Enyedi’s elegant juxtapositions. The obscene, intimate details of animal butchery against the delicate suspense of the dream sequences; the lovely crystalline score that sounds like melting icicles against the brutal sound design in the abattoir; the palette of frosted pastels for day, which warms to something more sensual and inviting at night. It’s an exquisitely offbeat love story and I fell headlong for its angular, awkward charm.
!!!@@@$$$

Secrets to hide. Secrets to discover. The two characters in Péter Eötvös’s one-act opera Senza Sangue have as many mysteries to unpack as their counterparts in its companion piece – Bartók’s venerable Bluebeard’s Castle. When put together they make an evening of dark, almost unbearable tension, easily outdoing cinema at its own game.
In a truly European collaboration, the international Armel Opera festival brought co-productions from Avignon and Metz to the Hackney Empire, along with the impressive Pannon Philharmonic from Hungary. The 70-piece orchestra was so large it filled the stalls, pushing the audience into the circles above. This gave a tremendous emphasis to the orchestral sound, sometimes at the expense of the singers, but thrillingly enhancing the drama inherent in both scores.
First heard at the Barbican earlier this year, Senza Sangue is based on the novel of the same name by Alessandro Baricco. Its two characters, Woman and Man, meet by chance. She recognises him as one of those who killed her father and brother in a civil war when she was a child. The encounter becomes part-interrogation, part-courtship, with Eötvös’s edgy vocal lines climbing over scurrying strings, fidgety woodwind and grunting interjections from the contrabassoon. A doom-laden bass drum punctuates the narrative as we learn that the Man’s accomplices have all met untimely deaths. Has the Woman picked them off? Will the Man be next? She carries a gun, so it seems more than likely, but desire for revenge is replaced by desire for sex, and we never find out.
Compelling mezzo Albane Carrére reprised her Barbican appearance as Woman opposite the more vocally restrained baritone Romain Bockler. Róbert Alfödi’s glacial direction only increased the tension and with Eötvös himself conducting this made a fine appetiser before the Bartók.
“If you love me, ask no questions,” sings Bluebeard to his new bride, Judith. Well, if that doesn’t make a woman suspicious, nothing will. Sure enough, Judith wants to know about her new man’s past and what lies behind the seven sealed doors in his chilly, windowless castle. An hour later, she wishes she hadn’t asked. But what an hour: Bartók’s radiant score glimmered beneath this folk tale of dreadful secrets and untold cruelty (wonderfully lit by Philippe Grosperrin), with Adrienn Miksch implacable as Judith and Bálint Szabó a hard-grained and steely Bluebeard.
Simon Rattle has been in post as music director of the London Symphony Orchestra barely two weeks but already this ensemble sounds revivified; strings more sonorous, brass gleaming, woodwind lithe and fleet, percussion crisp and vital. This was always a classy operation but Rattle’s much-anticipated homecoming has turbo-charged the LSO; a new confidence hangs in the air like an intoxicating perfume. The Gergiev days are already a distant memory.
Second in the celebratory This Is Rattle concert series last week was a double performance of Berlioz’s “opera without decor and costumes”, his sprawling  Damnation of Faust. This was an interesting choice: after Rattle’s inaugural programme of new British music, here was a piece much championed by Colin Davis when he ran the LSO. Like his decision to include Elgar’s Enigma in the first concert, this appeared to be a nod to the orchestra’s deep artistic history. But whatever the reason, it gave Rattle a golden opportunity to show that the Barbican is too small for his ambitions. With 300 performers squeezed on to the platform (and a 90-strong children’s choir in the auditorium), there was hardly room for anyone to breathe. Now see why I need a new concert hall, was his clear message.
Tenor Bryan Hymel as Faust sailed serenely over Berlioz’s most upholstered orchestration, with Karen Cargill sweet and vulnerable as his love, Marguerite. Gábor Bretz as the drunken Brander drained every last drop out of his silly song to a rat, aided by the excellent LSO chorus, drilled by chorus master Simon Halsey to portray soldiers, students, peasants, gnomes, sylphs, demons and the doomed. Baritone Christopher Purves was a last-minute replacement as Mephistopheles – an inspired choice, his mix of twinkling charm and cold menace perfect for the role.
When Rattle turned to conduct the young Tiffin singers in the auditorium, the audience saw what the orchestra and chorus see all the time – Sir Simon at work, directing operations with coaxing, smiling assurance, using his special gift to make every performer feel their contribution is vital.
It’s a gift he needed in spades on Thursday evening when pushing his players through a gruelling, uplifting programme of Stravinsky ballet scores. Playing The Firebird, Petrushka and The Rite of Spring in one sitting is a tall order and, for the most part, the LSO triumphed. Occasional ragged entries marred some moments of The Firebird but Rattle still engineered some astonishing passages, not least the quietest triple pianissimo the strings have surely ever produced.
Petrushka fizzed like a good champagne, while Rite of Spring exhausted us with its primal violence. Rattle conducted from memory throughout. They were taking the same programme to Paris on Friday and will repeat it at the Barbican tonight to bring the celebrations to a triumphant close. Everyone is going to need a good lie-down for days afterwards…
Star ratings (out of 5)Senza Sangue ★★★★Bluebeard’s Castle ★★★★The Damnation of Faust ★★★★★Stravinsky ballet music ★★★★★
!!!@@@$$$

This neatly opens and closes with two works produced in the same year – but each utterly different. Benjamin Britten’s brilliantly precocious four-movement Holiday Diary from 1933 is a 20-year-old’s brashly confident statement of intent, ushering in a new era, while a transcription of Brook Green Suite, Holst’s last work, feels like a farewell to a lost pastoral idyll. Pianist Maria Marchant excels in both but is most impressive in Kenneth Leighton’s Six Studies Op 56, from 1969, displaying cool control in the monolithic chordal movements and great dexterity in the highly complex contrapuntal sections. Other treats include a new piano piece from the baritone Roderick Williams, a blue-skied and sunny Goodwood by the Sea.
!!!@@@$$$

Professor of evolutionary psychology at the University of Oxford
We were all gearing up for the summer of love when, in 1967, Desmond Morris’s The Naked Ape took us by storm. Its pitch was that humans really were just apes, and much of our behaviour could be understood in terms of animal behaviour and its evolution. Yes, we were naked and bipedal, but beneath the veneer of culture lurked an ancestral avatar. With his zoologist’s training (he had had a distinguished career studying the behaviour of fishes and birds at Oxford University as part of the leading international group in this field), he gave us a picture of who we really are. In the laid-back, blue-smoke atmosphere of the hippy era, the book struck a chord with the wider public – if for no other reason than that, in the decade of free love, it asserted that humans had the largest penis for body size of all the primates.
The early 1960s had seen the first field studies of monkeys and apes, and a corresponding interest in human evolution and the biology of contemporary hunter-gatherers. Morris latched on to the fact that the sexual division of labour (the men away hunting, the women at home gathering) necessitated some mechanism to ensure the sexual loyalty of one’s mate – this was the era of free love, after all. He suggested that becoming naked and developing new erogenous zones (notably, ear lobes and breasts), not to mention face-to-face copulation (all but unknown among animals), helped to maintain the couple’s loyalty to each other.
Morris’s central claim, that much of our behaviour can be understood in the context of animal behaviour, has surely stood the test of time, even if some of the details haven’t. Our hairlessness (at around 2m years ago) long predates the rise of pair bonds (a mere 200,000 years ago). It owes its origins to the capacity to sweat copiously (another uniquely human trait) in order to allow us to travel longer distances across sunny savannahs. But he is probably still right that those bits of human behaviour that enhance sexual experience function to promote pair bonds – even if pair bonds are not lifelong in the way that many then assumed. Humans are unusual in the attention they pay to other people’s eyes – for almost all other animals, staring is a threat (as, of course, it can also be for us under certain circumstances).
I can’t honestly say if the book influenced my decision to study the behaviour of wild monkeys and, later, human ethology. Having been immersed in the same ethological tradition out of which Morris had come, viewing humans this way was no controversial claim. Older zoologists, however, were a great deal more sceptical, often viewing the book as facile. What it might well have done for me was to create an environment in which the funding agencies were more willing to fund the kinds of fieldwork on animals and humans that I later did.
Science journalist, broadcaster and author
From the moment The Naked Ape was published, female scientists and feminists rolled their eyes. For good reason. Desmond Morris credited hunting by males (and only males) as the one thing that drove up human intelligence and social cooperation. In a 1976 paper, American anthropologists Adrienne Zihlman and Nancy Tanner laughed at his implication that females had “little or no part in the evolutionary saga except to bear the next generation of hunters”.
His problem with women ran through every chapter. Let’s start with what females were doing while males were evolving. Morris answered: “The females found themselves almost perpetually confined to the home base.” But by his own admission, hunters would sometimes be away for weeks at a time chasing a kill. So how exactly were the womenfolk managing to feed their families in the interim?
His deliberate choice to ignore hunter-gatherers – the only people on Earth who live anything like the way our distant ancestors might have – blinded him to the fact that women are rarely housebound. We know, for example, that women gathering plants, roots and tubers and killing small animals tend to bring back more reliable calories than men do. What’s more, in many hunter-gather communities, including the Nanadukan Agta of the Philippines and the aboriginal Martu of Western Australia, women hunt. Martu women do it for sport.
What about the rest of us, who no longer hunt and gather, but live in towns and cities? “Work has replaced hunting… It is a predominantly male pursuit,” he wrote. Oh, Desmond, seriously? Anthropologists are fairly unanimous that in our distant past, men and women shared almost all work, including sourcing food and setting up shelter. That’s the harsh reality of subsistence living. Throughout history, there have always been working women.
His consistent failure to understand the impact of patriarchy and female repression bordered on the bizarre. He claimed that humans developed the loving pair bond to assure males their partners wouldn’t stray while they were off hunting. Females evolved to be faithful. But a few pages later he mentioned chastity belts and female genital mutilation as means of forcibly keeping women virginal.
“A case has been recorded of a male boring holes in his mate’s labia and then padlocking her genitals after each copulation,” he wrote, with the pathological detachment of a scientist observing flies in a jar. He never asked himself the obvious question: If women evolved to be faithful to one man, why did men resort to such brutal measures?
On other points of fact, time has simply proven him wrong. “Clearly, the naked ape is the sexiest primate alive,” he stated. Nope. That honour goes to the bonobo. Which incidentally happens to be a female-dominated species.
For 50 years, Morris’s arrogance (large chunks of his slim list of references were to his own work) has done untold damage to people’s understanding of our evolutionary past. We might forgive him for being a man of his time. But as a scientist, for choosing to overlook evidence right in front of his eyes, The Naked Ape still deserves as little respect as he showed half the human species.
Angela Saini’s latest book, Inferior: How Science Got Women Wrong and the New Research That’s Rewriting the Story, is published by Fourth Estate
Broadcaster, primatologist and teaching fellow at Anglia Ruskin University, Cambridge
Like many zoologists, biologists and naturalists before me, I was drawn to the thrill of exploration and tracking animals. But as a 12-year-old living in a seaside town in Norfolk, there wasn’t much to explore and limited species to stalk. Instead, my quarry was old books about nature, anthropology and evolution, and my territory was the dusty shelves of old bookshops. I still vividly remember chancing upon a slim volume one winter weekend. I slid the book from the shelf, mainly prompted by the title. I was fascinated by apes, and the word “naked” had a definite (if slightly intangible) appeal to my 12-year-old self.
I don’t think I’ve ever read a book quite so slowly. Partly because I needed a copy of the Oxford English Dictionary to help me comprehend each paragraph. I didn’t want to miss a beat in what became an intoxicating series of revelations about not only my species but apparently about me, too. I’d never experienced a book that reached out to the reader in such a way and even now, this still holds true for The Naked Ape in that you can’t help but examine where (or even if) you fit in with Morris’s observations.
I brushed over the sections covering the evolutionary achievements of the penis, the covert mission of breasts and the untold benefits of being naked, but stopped dead in my tracks when I read how, despite our few millennia as a species relishing in the glow of civilisation, our long lineage from our great ape precursors and hominid ancestors had left its indelible mark not only on our anatomy but upon our behaviour, also.
This idea that we are simply the by-product of millions of years of evolutionary tinkering and are not alone as the pinnacle of some benevolent creation was such a revelation that when the book was released it shocked many. Yes, this had been written before but never quite so eloquently and never in a way that was aimed at a non-expert audience. At long last, they were being invited to share in some of the biggest, best-kept secrets of our somewhat extended family.
As a scientist, there’s a lot more I could say… of course, some of its ideas are now dated and wrong but it was 50 years ago and science does move inexorably onwards. The thing about reading The Naked Ape is that it can do one of two things. It can either set light to the kindling of an inquiring mind, or – if it causes your eye to twitch in consternation at, for example, outdated views on the sexes – make you take stock of what you actually know. It sends you on an academic exercise, sieving through persuasive argument in order to pick out the tantalising glimmer of empirical evidence. I’ve gone from one to the other. I fondly still have my copy tucked between a book on baboons and a treatise on skeletal pathology.
The Naked Ape is like an old friend I’ve grown up with, realised that they’re not quite as perfect as I once thought – but have decided that they’re still cool enough to hang out with anyway.
Author and presenter of Radio 4’s Inside Science
I spent rather too much time in the last couple of weeks arguing with men about breasts. I forget how it began, but there was a phenomenal volume of Twitter correspondence asserting one of two statements as scientific fact: the first was that the permanently visible breasts in female humans (compared to all other apes, whose breasts only enlarge during lactation or estrus) are signals to attract males. The second was that the primary function of breasts is to attract males.
The latter seems trivial to dispel: a baby that starves to death is a greater evolutionary pressure than whether an adult male is turned on – breasts exist to feed babies. The first argument is trickier to contest. In nature, there are wondrous variants of what we call “secondary sexual traits” – those bodily parts or behaviours evolved to aid mate choice – the peacock’s tail, the bowerbird’s bower, lekking stags. For humans, it might seem obvious that breasts fall into that category, and in my online debates, in all cases, the evidence presented found its evolutionary origins in The Naked Ape: “The enlarged female breasts are usually thought of primarily as maternal rather than sexual developments, but there seems to be little evidence for this.”
The question of why we are different to other apes is valid. Aside from the definitional function of mammary glands in mammals, the reasons for our morphological differences are certainly worthy of study. Morris goes on: “The answer stands out as clearly as the female bosom itself. The protuberant, hemispherical breasts of the female must surely be copies of the fleshy buttocks, and the sharply defined red lips around the mouth must be copies of the red labia.”
Did anyone take this seriously in the 1960s? To me, this is little more than salacious guesswork, erotic fantasy science. And this is the fundamental problem with The Naked Ape: it is a book full of exciting ideas that have little scientific validity. The attractiveness of an idea in science has no bearing on its veracity. Sometimes they are presented as “common sense” arguments – it’s obvious, innit? But common sense is the opposite of science – our senses deceive us all the time, our profoundly limited experience skewers us with bias. In the case of the attractiveness function of breasts, this idea is almost entirely untested. The data simply does not exist. Maybe visible breasts are a secondary sexual trait in humans. It would be unusual, as in nature most of these types of traits are on males, and not all cultures regard breasts as erotic. Did boobs replace bums as a sexual signal when we became upright? I don’t know, but the point is that no one does. We could test this today with genetics, by establishing genes involved in breast development and searching the genome for the signatures of selection. But this has not been done.
In my experience, much of the academic field that The Naked Ape is emblematic of – evolutionary psychology – falls victim to similar scientific crimes. We call it “adaptationism”, or “panglossianism”, after Dr Pangloss from Voltaire’s Candide. An eternal optimist, he suggested there was a reason for everything, and everything had a reason. Hence our noses had evolved to balance spectacles on; we have two legs because that suits the dimensions of a tailored trouser. For Morris, and millions of men on the internet, breasts are attractive, therefore their purpose is to attract.
There is plenty to like about this book. Its descriptions of the physiology on show during various human activities are accurate, detailed and genial. To position us as animals and under the auspices of natural selection is happily Darwinian. The Naked Ape was colossally successful – 20m copies have been sold, which is an astonishing number for a book ostensibly about human evolution. Supporters have argued that its real value is in popularising science. The problem is, and has always been, that it is not science. It is a book of just so stories.
Adam Rutherford’s latest book, A Brief History of Everyone Who Ever Lived, is published by Weidenfeld & Nicholson
1928Born in the village of Purton, near Swindon.
1941
Attends boarding school in Wiltshire. Growing up during the second world war, he later claims that he pursued surrealism and zoology as a retreat from the human race. He tells the Bookseller in 2013: “If you are at all sensitive as a child and you see adults killing one another – and not in a criminal way, but an accepted way – that is a strange learning process. I thought, ‘This is the species I belong to?’”
1948Following national service, enrols as an undergraduate in zoology at Birmingham university.
1950Exhibits his surrealist art work with Joan Miró in London.
1954Publishes his doctoral thesis, entitled The Reproductive Behaviour of the Ten-Spined Stickleback.
1956 Is appointed head of the Granada TV and film unit at the Zoological Society, making programmes including Zoo Time for ITV; David Attenborough presented the rival show Zoo Quest for the BBC. Presents approximately 500 episodes of the show.
1957Organises a exhibition called Paintings by Chimpanzees at the Institute of Contemporary Arts.
1959Becomes the Zoological Society’s curator of mammals.
1966Writes The Naked Ape over four weeks. “People think I deliberately wrote it to make a shocking bestseller, but it wasn’t like that,” he tells the Guardian in 2007.
1967Appointed director of the ICA, where he encountered figures such as Henry Moore, Francis Bacon, Salvador DalÍ, Pablo Picasso and Barbara Hepworth. Supervises the institute’s move to the Mall. The first edition of The Naked Ape is published on 12 October and is serialised in the Daily Mirror.
1968Following the success of The Naked Ape, he leaves his ICA post and moves to Malta with his wife.
1973Returns to the UK to take up a research fellowship at Wolfson College, Oxford.
1977Publishes his book Manwatching, which developed the concept of “body language”. It is one of more than 40 books Morris has written, including The Human Zoo, Intimate Behaviour, Babywatching, Dogwatching and Christmas Watching.
1978Is elected vice-chairman of Oxford United football club.
1986Begins work on The Animals Roadshow, co-presented with Sarah Kennedy.
2016An updated edition of his 1981 book, The Soccer Tribe, is published with a foreword by José Mourinho.
2017The BBC makes a documentary about his artistic career entitled The Secret Surrealist. The Express describes his artwork as “very obviously zoological… full of fantastical life forms resembling cells and gene maps and creatures of the deep, yet also possessing the friendly charm of The Clangers”. Ian Tucker
!!!@@@$$$

Francis O’Gorman’s new book centres on his belief that people in the 21st century are detaching themselves from the past to their detriment. He examines the ways we forget: the erasure of memory that comes with age, and the modern impulse to untether ourselves from the places we came from, orienting ourselves instead towards the future, with scant regard for history and its lessons.
O’Gorman (whose last published work was a history of worrying) writes with a crisp and elegant, if occasionally high-handed, tone. He explores the role of cultural memory in classical society and the west’s shifting relationship with history across the centuries. He looks at the emergence of a culture of forgetting, a desire to overwrite and wipe clean.
Cultural memory, he argues, shapes our sense of time and connectedness to one another on a local and global level. By “winding down the portcullis” on the past, we risk closing our minds.
• Forgetfulness: Making the Modern Culture of Amnesia by Francis O’Gorman is published by Bloomsbury (£14). To order a copy go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

Neglected and in many cases misunderstood, Sibelius’s piano works remain something of secret. The celebrated Norwegian Leif Ove Andsnes is on a mission to share them. As he readily confesses, they are uneven in quality, some sounding little more than short, sweet musings, others like shadowy imitations of Chopin or Liszt. All appear worlds away from the raw splendour of the symphonic works. Or perhaps not. The three lyric pieces of Kyllikki, Op 41 (1904), inspired by Finland’s epic, The Kalevala, or the Five Sketches (1929) do echo the timbre and mood of his orchestral writing. On closer listening you feel a door to Sibelius’s mysterious world has been unlocked. And the playing is beautiful.
!!!@@@$$$

Strange things are afoot on Tricky’s 13th LP: its quality, for one. The trip-hop maverick’s former foil, Martina Topley-Bird, guests for the first time in 14 years; a sombre treat. Elsewhere, Russian rappers jostle against a perplexing cover version of Hole’s Doll Parts. The former are excellent, with the lairy Scriptonite juxtaposed against Tricky’s malevolent drawl on Same As It Ever Was (a Talking Heads reference, surely). The latter? If only Tricky had sung it, rather than one of his myriad guests. Throughout, Tricky creates a claustrophobic world full of stark bass lines, pop digressions and slinky Bristol moments; his duet with Francesca Belmonte, New Stole, is particularly moreish.
!!!@@@$$$

Strike (BBC1) | iPlayerElectric Dreams (C4) | channel4.comDoc Martin (ITV) | itv.comTransparent (Amazon) | amazon.co.ukBad Move (ITV) | itv.comW1A (BBC2) | iPlayer
Was there a little score-settling going on in The Silkworm, the concluding episode of which aired last Sunday to round off the sadly too-short Strike series? Certainly it was heavy on inside-track knowledge, gossip and bitchiness from the land of publishing, a world in which the author here nom-de-plumed as “Robert Galbraith” has long service. And thus one line fairly leapt out as Strike, the languid, limping Tom Burke, reached shaggily for yet another fag at a jazzy rooftop book launch.
“They moan about declining book sales, but everyone I’ve seen so far in publishing either has a drink in their hand or can only meet for lunch.” Um… I’m sure that’s true somewhere in publishing, but perhaps especially true in the case of your just happening to be JK Rowling. I seem to recall Rowling was livid when her Galbraith identity was leaked, even though the books had already garnered high praise from the likes of Val McDermid; she’d wanted to be judged blind on thriller merit. Yet without her “outing”, it’s far from certain the BBC would have picked up on the filmability of the books and we would have been denied Cormoran Strike, which would have been a huge shame.
The plots have admittedly been overly complex and have surely disappointed the Potterati kidults, frantically combing the opener looking for Hogwartia (“so… so… the actress who plays Robin has exactly the same surname, though not exactly cos it’s spelt wrongly, as Hermione! And, and, that’s it!), but they’ll just have to be damnably disappointed. What has been discovered is an undoubted chemistry between Strike, with his sweet sudden smile hinting of past damage, and Robin, with her ingenious whip-smarts and her frantically dull and needy fiance. It’s a lucky chemistry that can’t even be written: the on-screen partnership is subtle and unique and to be relished and cherished. They reunite next year, grand news for all.
Holliday Grainger, that not-Hermione, flexed her acting muscles the same night by portraying, with equal distinction, a wildly different beast, a telepathic “teep” in the opener of Electric Dreams. This series, C4’s ambitious reworking of the short stories of Philip K Dick, is bound to suffer from comparisons to Charlie Brooker’s Black Mirror, shanghaied two years back by the deep-pocketed Netflix. In almost all ways the comparisons will be unfair.
Brooker can update almost until the moment of transmission, taking into account every techno breakthrough, each new social media phenomenon, selfies and snowflakes and trolls and the rest, to, essentially, lube up the present, through a glass darkly. Dick died in 1982.
This one of his, The Hood Maker, was written in 1955, smack in the hangover of McCarthyism, and much of the sense of chill paranoia remained, given fresh impetus by current twitches over eavesdropping by our internet giants. Though how much right we have to privacy, when half the nation seems to want to rush to the net blabbing its every secret thought in colonic detail, is quite another question. But it’s hard to be cutting edge in science fiction when some your source material is more than half a century old; on reflection, C4 and its adapters, aided by some starry casting, have made a relatively magnificent fist of it. Give this series a little time and care: next Sunday’s, The Commuter, featuring Timothy Spall, is simultaneously standout sweet and harrowing. And Philip Kindred Dick remains rightly feted as a visionary to rival Wells and Orwell.
Two years Doc Martin’s been off our screens and I find, somewhat head-scratchingly, that I’ve somewhat missed it. A rather welcome fainting lady vicar came to town, and failed to marry dunderhead Joe, and Al’s fat dad poisoned everyone, and thus all was back to normal among the usual yahoos and googans of Portwenn.
At heart, despite the clotted-cream fantasies, this still revolves around the Doc and the fact that the problem of living in any paradise, anywhere, will always, surely, simply be people and relationships. At one point, poor Louisa asked her husband, famously filter-free to the point I’m always staggered he passed any GMC screenings, of their son, James Henry: “Do you think he likes me?” Answers the now-peerless Martin Clunes: “Who knows?” A tragedy stuck inside a comedy, as so many fine British comedies have ever been at heart.
The enjoyment derived from Transparent, whose new season on Amazon centres on a family trip to Israel, will almost wholly depend on your tolerance for large and fast-talking Jewish families with a transgender father. Amid some sterling Jewish humour, some sterling matzo balls and some sex – much sex in fact, via all the siblings – there are immensely shrewd insights, especially on the nature of secrets, which underpin so much of this. “[In large families] you tell a lie just to get some privacy. Secrets are kind of a perfect stand-in for boundaries.” I’m coming shamefully late to this, but already it haunts: that mesmeric LA sunshine sprawling its fingers over such different bodies, such different heartaches. It’s one of the most tremendously kind, human works to have come out of America for, possibly, decades. Utterly hooked.
I wonder what led two rather fine R4 hosts, Jack Dee and Miles Jupp, who steer I’m Sorry I Haven’t a Clue and The News Quiz with panache and, I had thought, a true compass for comedy, to the sub-funny Bad Move? Naked pocket-stuffing greed perhaps? Dee, who co-wrote the thing, downsizes to the country and finds, rather than a rural idyll, recalcitrant locals and dodgy broadband, ho ho. Compared to Rob Beckett’s Static last week it’s pant-wettingly hilarious. Yet so, comparatively, are rectal polyps.
And so it was a genuine delight to hear, once more, the strains of the Animal Magic theme as W1A returned for a third series. One of the joys of watch-again is that, in addition to the more garish tropes to which we’re now used – the folding bikes, Monica Dolan’s perpetual Welsh whining, Jessica Hynes’s PR gorgon – one can find, in almost every 30 seconds, unlooked-for subtleties. David Westhead as Neil Reid, the one-man Greek chorus whose muttered “bollocks” says, in sadly splendid isolation, what we’re all thinking, and the more hidden verbal tics from deadpan narrator David Tennant: “the department for culture, media and also for some reason sport”… “assistant of some sort Will Humphries”.
Incidentally, did you notice Dolan in Strike, playing the wrongly jailed wife? True skills, to turn from blistering darkness to high comedy over two nights. W1A continues to draw flak, roundly undeserved: too BBC-smug, too London, too hugging of itself, too versed in PR knowingness, too not-Brexit. I revere it as a brave commission, and a gleeful and celebratory use of most of the best comedy actors and improvisers of the last decade, surely a golden age, and long may it continue: at least until a massive backdrop of caustic creator John Morton appears on one of the walls, at which point the BBC can officially be proved to have eaten itself.
!!!@@@$$$

The actor Julius Tennon is thrilled to be appearing alongside his Oscar-winning wife, Viola Davis, in the new season of her hit show, How to Get Away with Murder, later this month. It is rare they work together onscreen.
Offscreen, however, the power couple spend much of their time working together for they have a joint mission: to change the face of Hollywood by increasing diversity across the industry.
A recent study showed that despite the huge success of recent films such as Fences, starring Davis and Denzel Washington; Moonlight; and Hidden Figures, Hollywood remained as white and male dominated as ever. Representation of race, gender, LGBT people and disability had barely changed in the past 10 years, according to the research by academics at the University of Southern California (USC).
Tennon said: “That study was important because it’s highlighting what the state of Hollywood really is.”
He added: “Obviously there are pipeline issues at the top with people of color.” Some networks were doing a good job, he said, but “slow she goes. It’s a brick by brick situation.
“When I go to meetings, it’s generally not African Americans that I’m talking to about getting something greenlit. Folks at the top are going to have to make decisions about trying to make systemic change. That’s the only way it’s going to happen – by creating a pipeline of opportunities for folk to get in there, go through it and get out and start being a part of it at the top.”
He and Davis, who married 14 years ago and have a seven-year-old daughter, Genesis, set up their multimedia company, JuVee Productions, in 2011 to tackle the problem from the grassroots. They wanted to create more suitable roles for Davis’s talent.
Tennon, 63, said: “We started it out of a need for her career, for Viola to be more than this woman who turns a piece of baloney into a filet mignon. She was getting one or two scenes in a movie and some guest star TV work, but after Antwone Fisher [a 2002 film starring and directed by Denzel Washington], there were a lot of eyes on her.”
They quickly decided to expand their goal and try to create opportunities for a diverse range of people on and off the screen.
“While we had this elevation in the industry, we felt it was a chance to give opportunities to others, whether that be actors or below-the-line people,” Tennon said. “We consider ourselves the voice of the voiceless.”
The USC study looked at the 100 top grossing films at the US box office in 2016. It found that 5.8% of directors were black and 3.3% Asian. Just 4.2% of directors, 20.7% of producers, 13.2% of writers and 1.7% of composers were female; while only 31% of the speaking roles went to women. LGBT characters filled 1.1% of all speaking parts and people with disabilities 2.7%.
No black women appeared in 47 of the films and there were no black female directors.
Viola Davis said via email: “The reason diversity is still an issue is that everyone is not ‘put to task’.”
She said it was a much bigger issue than casting and stories, agreeing with Tennon that it was a “pipeline problem”. “If a writer, director, cinematographer, actor of color is out there, they have the talent but haven’t had the opportunities. So, when the studios start putting together their movies, they go for who they know, who they’ve worked with … the hottest, buzziest, the one with the résumé … and most of them are white.”
She added: “No one says anything, because why would you? To change is to risk losing money, changing your vision, being exposed. It’s a problem that needs to be tackled from the studio heads who give the green light vote to film-makers who simply can envision a role differently, to producers who can give a budding gifted cinematographer, grip, writer of color a chance, and finally to audiences to plop down money to see a film character differently. It requires being awoke.”
These days, Tennon, who has appeared in more than 50 films and TV series, concentrates mostly on running JuVee and producing. The company takes on everything from virtual reality and digital content to television and film.
Their first film, Lila & Eve, with Davis and Jennifer Lopez, was released in 2015. Custody, featuring Davis, followed in 2016. Next spring, they start shooting the Personal History of Rachel Dupree, the story of an African American woman struggling to farm the Badlands in South Dakota in 1917. A biopic of Barbara Jordan, the first southern black woman to be elected to the House of Representatives, is in the development stage. Both will star 52-year-old Davis.
They are also working on the movie adaptation of Rachel Lloyd’s critically acclaimed book Girls Like Us, a true story about sex trafficking.
Tennon said Davis, who won an Oscar for Fences this year and was nominated for Oscars in 2012 for The Help and 2009 for Doubt, “touches people across the globe”. He added: “We’re using the platform to push things forward.”
The first three seasons of How to Get Away with Murder are on Netflix. “It’s exploded her star. She’s sitting in all these different living rooms where a black woman wasn’t sitting, and it’s powerful. As a company, we feel like we have to make sure that the content going out is above and beyond. When we create narratives, we want them to be whole and full and rich, and non-stereotypical.”
He continued: “We’re in a market now that’s accelerated by technology. Diversity is what we’re bringing to the digital space. We want content for everyone and content that people of color will consume.”
Mentioning the global success of Moonlight, Hidden Figures and Fences, he said: “We’re in a space now where diversity is good business and people should see it like that.”
Organizations should be hiring people of color in executive positions, he believes, and thinking how to “include these people to help shape things so they have a complete slate, that has a little bit of everything”. “Those organizations that are thinking that way, big and expansive, will be the winners,” he said.
Tennon’s first public performance was at 14, when he performed the I Have a Dream speech by Martin Luther King Jr in a school assembly. Encouraged by his English teacher, who thought he had a beautiful voice, he became the first African American in the drama department at the University of Tulsa – which he attended on an American football scholarship – and went on to pursue his dream of becoming an actor.
Now he, along with the woman he describes as “one of a handful of great actresses of our time”, hopes to give others the chance to achieve their dreams, too.
!!!@@@$$$

Short Cuts (R4) | iPlayer
In the Studio (BBC World Service) | iPlayer
No Place of Greater Safety (R4) | iPlayer
FRDH | FRDH Podcast
The BBC has been taking on the modern world of podcasting for quite some time now, with varying degrees of success. I enjoy it when it makes radio shows with a podcast feel, such as Grace Dent’s The Untold, and Short Cuts, hosted by Josie Long. Both are excellent. What do I mean by a podcast feel? Well, both programmes are producer-driven (though this is not really acknowledged in The Untold), unafraid of adding atmospheric background sounds and based around the telling of offbeat but true stories; ordinary people in the midst of an extraordinary time. Short Cuts is on at the moment and I recommend this week’s episode, partly because I know one of the subjects. Joe Benjamin is a well-known figure in Brixton (where I live). He brought a conch shell with him when he came to the UK from Bermuda, and Short Cuts lets him recall the time he blew it in Brixton market for a very particular reason.
I like the BBC’s chatty podcasts rather less – with the honourable exception of Mayo and Kermode – and the Beeb is yet to find the right tone with its forays into other podcast genres, such as true crime. It’s hard for BBC-trained journalists to find the right mixture of intimacy and journalistic rigour. They have an awful tendency to sound like a robot trying to be your friend. (Dent and Long, you note, come from outside the BBC.)
Anyway. Here is another “new” BBC podcast: the World Service’s In the Studio. The strange thing about In the Studio is that it’s actually a radio series that has been running for quite some time. You can catch up on lots of episodes on the World Service website. But now it’s been rebranded as an All! New! Cultural! podcast which aims to take the listener into “the minds of the world’s most creative people”. It has upped its status by getting Tim Marlow to top and tail the show. Marlow, an excellent arts journalist for many years, is now the artistic director of the Royal Academy. He knows his stuff and brings prestige. And the In the Studio subjects are now more high status too, with playwright Kwame Kwei-Armah and TV writer David Simon talking two weeks ago, and Man Booker prize-winner Marlon James the subject of last week’s episode. Interviewed by the just-slightly-too-BBC Andrea Kidd, James, who’s just started writing a trilogy called the Dark Star, was very interesting on the difference between various countries’ attitudes to midnight and the dark. In many non-western societies, he explained, “bright star means nothing. Bright star just means you’re supernova-ing and you’ll be obsolete. Dark star is brimming with depth and potential.” An engaging, inspiring conversation and just right for a podcast.
Back to straightforward radio reporting. Michael Goldfarb’s No Place of Greater Safety on Radio 4 took us to Syria, Afghanistan, South Sudan, where bombing civilian hospitals is now considered a “tactic” of war.
Once, years ago, wars mostly took place in empty fields, with armies advancing or retreating. In the first world war, said one expert, the ratio of soldiers killed to civilians was about 10 to one. Now, it’s the other way around: for every soldier that dies in conflict, 10 civilians are killed. Civilians are the main victims of today’s wars. Plus, of course, if you attack hospitals, you are likely to kill doctors. Health – or rather your access to healthcare – has become “another weapon, another way to wage wars”.
The experts interviewed sounded resigned but determined and, as ever, Goldfarb’s reporting and presentation were exemplary. He has his own history podcast, FRDH, which I recommend. It’s been going a year now, beginning – imagine! – in a pre-Trump era. At first, Goldfarb tried to cover US history in a broad manner (he still does: the latest episode is about Berkeley in 1969) but he has found that the president and matters arising from the White House are what his listeners want to hear about. We’re suckers for punishment, clearly.
!!!@@@$$$

In interviews, Jennifer Egan used to spend a fair amount of time explaining what she wasn’t interested in doing with her writing. Verisimilitude was boring. The linear was “the weird scourge of writing prose”. Conventional narratives were absolutely not her bag. In the same conversations, she would sometimes refer to her time at the University of Pennsylvania, when she was “a literary theory nut”; such ideas, she insisted scarily, were with her still. All of which made it seem a safe bet that when she finally delivered a new book – it’s six years since the publication of her Pulitzer prize-winning fourth novel, A Visit from the Goon Squad, which came with a chapter in the form of a PowerPoint presentation – it would be every bit as formally daring as her last.
But, no. Reach for your smelling salts, Goon Squad fans. For her next trick, Egan has written a 400-page historical novel called Manhattan Beach. Set in New York during the Depression and the second world war – specifically, much of the action takes place in the Brooklyn Navy Yard, then the biggest builder and repairer of allied ships – it comes not only with a forward-moving plot, but with a thoroughly old-fashioned heroine: the kind of girl, brave and determined, with whom readers are almost duty bound to fall in love. A Victorian novel by any other name, its sensibility is, in other words, so thoroughly conventional, I can’t help but wonder: when, exactly, did its author start thinking verisimilitude and the linear might be interesting after all?
Egan laughs. “I’m thrilled you felt it was like a Victorian novel,” she says, speaking on Skype from her home in New York. “I’m obsessed with the Victorian novel. I can’t help it. I feel like the novel then was so powerful and agile in ways I’m not sure it is now.” That said, she isn’t entirely sure how much of a break Manhattan Beach – already longlisted for the National Book awards in the US – represents with her past. Yes, she longed for it to be different. Whenever she finishes a project, all she wants to do is “repudiate” it. However, those who like to describe her as a postmodernist seem sometimes to forget that there is nothing she has done in her novels that the Victorians didn’t do – “and that includes graphic kookiness”.
In any case, she didn’t begin by writing a regular kind of narrative. “At first, I was going to rip things up again,” she says. “I thought the book would connect to 9/11, which I felt was the end of something, or at least an important event in a trajectory that had begun with the rise of America as a superpower at the end of world war two, and so there would be these leaps into the future, ie into our present. But all that was dead on arrival. It was so stale. There’s nothing inherently exciting about any narrative move: it’s only exciting if it works, and if it couldn’t be done any other way. Everything else is gimmickry.”
When these leaps in time received a thumbs down from her writing group, she knew she had to let them go. “I finally admitted to myself I was sick of all that so-called innovation, and that it would be a relief to get rid of it.” Only then, a new problem: “To my horror, I found it was much harder to write a book in which I had to sustain momentum. With fragmentation [her approach in Goon Squad] you avoid a lot of writing pitfalls, the number one of which is sustaining momentum.”
In her acknowledgments, Egan describes “circling” around Manhattan Beach’s setting over a period of years. There was a time when she wasn’t sure she could transform her research into a novel. That job seemed (she tells me this with the same modesty that has her insisting she was “over-rewarded” for Goon Squad) to be beyond her capabilities. “But I’ve learned there is a feeling I have about things that are going to end up in my fiction, a kind of excitement. I have this dream again and again: I find extra rooms in the place where I live. You could say it’s a very New York dream, but I think it’s about writing – the feeling that there is something behind a wall or a door. When I went on my first tour of the Brooklyn Navy Yard, I had the sense that I was pushing through a wall. I was in a hidden city.”
Egan found her way to the source of her inspiration through old photographs. When she first moved to New York – she lives in Brooklyn with her husband, a theatre director, and two teenage sons – people had learned to look away from the water. But in these images, the city poured outwards towards its piers, its lifeblood. Having toured the navy yard with its archivist, and having learned of the daily miracles of engineering that were performed there – “such incredible feats, including two ships that were half destroyed being soldered together” – she fell in with a bunch of veteran army divers. “I attended one of their reunions in 2009, and they dressed me in the Mark V diving suit [the kind with a heavy, spherical metal helmet], all 200 pounds of it. Most of them had been in Korea or Vietnam, but there was one second world war veteran there. He had worked as a diver in Cherbourg, clearing out the harbour after the Germans blew everything up when they fled.”
In France, this man had come across a female Russian diver – a figure, almost mythological, who enthralled Egan. In the fullness of time, she would import the woman into her novel in the form of the heroine, Anna Kerrigan, the spirited daughter of a dancer from the Ziegfeld Follies. Not content merely with soldering and riveting – the war enabled women to take well-paid jobs previously done only by men – Anna would join that most dangerous and exclusive of navy occupations, becoming a diver. Did any women really dive for the US navy? “I don’t know that they didn’t,” says Egan. “But given that the navy would not even let African American men dive, it doesn’t seem likely.”
I just turned 55, and feel: wow! I’m lucky, in that I have always been able to make a living
Egan’s career as a writer – she first decided she wanted to be one in the 1980s, as a lonely backpacker in Europe – has an unusual shape. Her early novels were critically acclaimed and sold well; The Keep, her take on the gothic, was a bestseller. But starting out – she was first published in 1995 – she was somehow never pegged as “a hot, young writer”. This used to trouble her. Now, though, she’s grateful for it. “There’s something wonderful about the feeling that things continue to improve. I had a steady build and then [after the Pulitzer] a quantum leap. I just turned 55, and feel: wow! I’m also one of the lucky ones, in that I have always been able to make a living from it.” She combines fiction with long-form journalism (for the New York Times Magazine), and she doesn’t know where she would be, creatively, without it. “Fiction is my deepest love, but I love journalism, too. It keeps me thinking vigorously, and it reminds me that there is a world out there. It has taught me how to distil enormous quantities of information, and I wouldn’t have been able to write Manhattan Beach without that because I have never scuba dived. Actually, I’ve barely been on a ship.”
Acting on a hunch, I ask if she was relieved to have finished Manhattan Beach before the election of Trump. “Oh my God, you said it. Friends who are working on books set in contemporary times are trying to figure out how to account for him; he has a way of sucking all the air out of the room. After the inauguration, I found it almost impossible to work for a couple of weeks. All the existential problems that can crowd in on writers – questions like: what’s the point? – seemed very crushing at that moment.” The president is, however, having an effect on her reading. “I’m reading Trollope now,” she says, almost confidingly. “He’s little read here, but he makes for a great juxtaposition with Trump because he is all about power and money. Every character is introduced along with their annual income: people literally have a price tag on their head.” Thanks to this, Trump may yet turn out to be a cog in the engine of her next novel – which Egan, the so-called postmodernist, is thinking about setting in the 19th century. That surely must tell us something about where we are right now.
• Manhattan Beach by Jennifer Egan will be published in the UK on 3 October (Little, Brown £16.99). To order a copy for £14.44 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

If ever there was an English national literary treasure, he must be Edward Lear. In polls, including a recent one for National Poetry Day, The Owl and the Pussycat is often voted our favourite poem. Anyone who has ever doodled a limerick, of any tone or topic, pays homage to his genius. As well as timeless nonsense such as The Jumblies, there’s also his art – brilliantly studied paintings of exotic creatures in far-off lands; luminous desertscapes; antic sketches of men with birds in their beards – work that puts him in a class of his own as an important Victorian artist.
Edward Lear is one of those English one-offs who are treasured because they seem to suggest that there are no more important things to do than paint or write, and who embody a benign, provisional and above all amateur spirit. Lear himself, slyly complicit, summarised his place in the English cultural landscape with a teasing, encrypted self-description:
How pleasant to know Mr Lear! Who has written such volumes of stuff! Some think him ill-tempered and queer, But a few think him pleasant enough.
He was born in London in 1812, the same year as Charles Dickens, one of at least 17, or was it 19 (his mother lost count; there were infant deaths)? Young Edward was both swept up in, and set apart from, this brood. With good reason, he always felt different. By the age of five, he was not only a boy among many sisters, but also diagnosed as epileptic, a lifelong terror he shared with Lewis Carroll. Epilepsy would be one of the secrets that made him solitary, while his atrocious eyesight “formed everything into a horror”. Lear’s nonconformist parents hardly compensated for these childhood traumas: both were largely absent. His City broker father was remote; his “shadowy” mother rejected him.
Jenny Uglow declares at the outset that she wants to “follow his life straightforwardly”. In this, she’s echoing the discreet and magisterial example of Vivien Noakes who pioneered this elusive subject in 1968 in Edward Lear: The Life of a Wanderer. But Uglow goes much further than Noakes. This, quite rightly, is the half-life of a gay man in a society that had neither language nor tolerance for homosexuality. By chapter two, on top of all his other troubles, young Edward is grappling with some mysterious abuse, “the greatest evil done to me in my life”. What, exactly, this was remains unclear, though Lear recorded the date of the “greatest evil” every year in his diary. Uglow, whose focus on Lear and his confused sexuality is unflinching, is too good a biographer to indulge in reckless speculation here. Clearly, for “pleasant” Mr Lear, nothing would ever again be “straightforward”, especially once he and his beloved sister Ann began to escape into a parallel universe of exquisite botanical drawing. Nonsense verse soon followed. From boyhood, Lear was “three parts crazy”, but “wholly affectionate.” He would only get more like himself.
There were few intrusions on his adolescent solitude, apart from birds, especially parrots, his favourites. Some early zoological work inspired his vocation as an artist. Eventually, he would rival Audubon. Parrots also brought him a patron, Edward Smith-Stanley, 13th Earl of Derby, whose teeming family exposed Lear to a new audience for his gifts as an entertainer. As an artist, Lear was supposed to remain below stairs with the servants, but Stanley liked to have his protege upstairs to amuse his guests. Where Carroll had Alice and the Liddell family, Lear had the Knowsley nursery, where the Stanley children, their friends and nursemaids, kept riotous company. Unlike Carroll, he did not sentimentalise little girls, betraying no hint of the paedophile. Rather, Lear loved the mayhem of childhood to which nonsense was the only answer. Nonsense was infantile, rude, eccentric and grumpy, as children are. Nonsense could celebrate surreal violence and ghoulish accidents. As a roving landscape painter, Lear could be exquisite. Through his crazy wordplay, he could express his inner torment as a homosexual single man in Victorian England.
Windsor did do something for Lear, which was give an awkward, gay man renewed self-confidence
Abroad, in Rome or Corfu, he could be “as happy as a hedgehog” and was free to fall in love with other artists. At home, he had to present himself, half ironically, as a man in need of a wife: “I anticipate the chance of a Mrs Lear”, he wrote, “in 40 years hence.”
Unlike some gay Victorians, who went native overseas, it was Lear’s respectable hope that he was “always an Englishman” abroad. “Mr Lear” was certainly a weird bird. As he grew older, this myopic court jester, and nomadic artist, unable to reconcile his sexual with his social self, morphed into his mature, eccentric persona.
This was the closet homosexual who, in the summer of 1846, came to teach drawing to Queen Victoria. “How did you get all these beautiful things?” he exclaimed, on first seeing the famous royal collection. “I inherited them, Mr Lear,” replied the Queen.
It’s at this point that Jenny Uglow diverges most completely from the narrative line hewn by Vivien Noakes. Uglow’s interest in Lear’s court life is distinctly finite. And yet Windsor did do something for Lear, which was give an awkward, gay man renewed self-confidence. Thus, 1846 also saw the publication of A Book of Nonsense (now an exceedingly rare book). Uglow is good on Lear’s nonsense, attributing just the right amount of consequence to its surreal caprice:
There was an Old Person of Rhodes, Who strongly objected to toads; He paid several cousins, To catch them by dozens, That futile Old Person of Rhodes.
On his travels again – now to the Holy Land – Lear fell in love with a younger man, Frank Lushington, who would eventually compound Lear’s inner torment. For a while, the senior partner found temporary solace among the pre-Raphaelite brotherhood to whom he looked up as a child among grown-ups, addressing Holman Hunt as “dear Daddy”.
Now in his 40s, Lear had become a considerable figure in the mid-Victorian arts world, making friends with Tennyson and especially his wife, Emily, to whom he confessed feeling “jarry and out of tune”.
Uglow shows that the life of the Victorian gay man, even in progressive circles, was excruciating. The sexual appetite, wrote one, was “a beast to be suppressed, trampled by the help of surgeons and their cautery of sexual organs”.
Only abroad could Lear and Lushington enjoy a semblance of marriage – as Uglow puts it – “without the sex”. But then, how “queer” was Mr Lear? When he and his manservant Giorgio visited Mount Athos, Lear fled screaming from the Holy Mountain and its “mournful, minced fish and marmalade masticating Monx [sic]”.
In middle age, Lear’s wordplay had become quasi-Joycean, writes Uglow, “alive, protean, ever evolving, and finding new endings, like new limbs”. This is the Lear beloved of Auden and Eliot. He was, says Uglow, “an eerie, queery, sometimes weary, sometimes cheery Edward Lear”.
When “cheery”, he enjoyed moments that were “splendidophoropherostiphongious”, but there was always a terrible sadness, too, that only nonsense could assuage.
In 1861, Lear published a new Book of Nonsense, a huge success that would establish him as a classic. Four years later, Lewis Carroll published Alice in Wonderland, a very different kettle of fish, steeped in logic and literary allusion. These two Victorian giants never met, and Lear read Alice “without comment”.
Lear’s world, unlike Dodgson’s Oxford idyll, was provisional, nomadic and fraught. Lushington got married and Lear tortured himself with matrimonial fantasies. He would be “forever roaming with a hungry heart”.
Finally, the gaiety and sadness of Lear’s life expressed itself in his four greatest poems: The Owl and the Pussycat, The Dong With a Luminous Nose, Some Incidents in the Life of My Uncle Arly and The Jumblies, warbling their “moony song”. He might recognise that he had gone “to sea in a sieve”, but he admonished his diary that “the morbids are not allowed”. This extraordinary Englishman died in self-imposed isolation in San Remo aged 75. Jenny Uglow has written a great life about an artist with half a life, a biography that might break your heart.
• Mr Lear: A Life of Art and Nonsense by Jenny Uglow is published by Faber (£25). To order a copy for £21.25 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
!!!@@@$$$

Irma (Geraldine Chaplin), aged 342, wants to visit Earth, is willing to pay a small fortune, and hires two cruise-ship operators to take her there. Only problem: Earth was destroyed years ago. But that’s not going to stop unscrupulous Andrews (Benedict Wong) and conflicted Norton (Jack Reynor) from taking her “there”. A most moving meditation on love and memory, perhaps suggesting that the heart is where home is. Ali Catterall
The demanding DIY fairytale continues for former Scrapheap Challenge bodger Dick Strawbridge and his wife Angel, who swapped Southend for the Pays de la Loire and a five-storey 19th-century fixer-upper. Having now renovated almost half of their 45 rooms, Dick is desperate to revive the chateau’s derelict walled garden. But an attic-rattling winter storm forces the couple to reassess the state of their rickety roof. Graeme Virtue
As part of the Treasures Decoded series, we discover vital clues as to how the materials for the Great Pyramid at Giza were transported, thanks to a recently unearthed 4,500-year-old diary. Could it be that a system of specially constructed ships and hidden waterways provides the answer? With man-made canals diverted from the Nile to carry the huge stones? Vivid graphics beautifully bring to life the dry and dusty subject matter. David Stubbs
Benedict Cumberbatch is the children’s author hollowed by the loss of his daughter, in a classily staged version of Ian McEwan’s 1987 novel. Cumberbatch is in virtually every scene and can carry that weight, but debate will be had about whether the simplifying of the novel’s various themes – distilling them into the notion that love and memory transcend time – produces a more elegant study of grief, or just makes all the subplots and elements confusing and cursory. Jack Seale
Listen to Britain was a 20-minute propaganda film made by Humphrey Jennings and Stewart McAllister in 1942. From an unpromising premise, the directors crafted a poetic and profound statement about British – and indeed human – life. Tonight, the film gets another screening but the BBC and the BFI have also commissioned 12 new films loosely inspired by the original but rooted in the present. Expect fiery polemics, gentle musings and everything in between. Phil Harrison
This in-depth, disturbing episode of Vice’s Emmy-winning doc series focuses on law enforcement officers working to end child exploitation. From forensic data analysis to AI, the fight against paedophiles is increasingly hi-tech, reflecting the surge in internet access – and instances of online child sex abuse – in the developing world. Plus, a rounded report on the declining coal industry in the US region of Appalachia. Hannah J Davies
Second visit to five couples as they attempt a transformation from amateur shoe-shufflers to beatified ballroomistas. This week’s cha-cha-challenge gives the couples a fortnight to prepare for Stockport’s glitziest ballroom bonanza. With no Strictly-esque training camps available, practice sessions for each couple must fit around their busy lives, with Paul and Vanessa even having to prepare via Skype. With so much to juggle, who will prevail? Mark Gibbings-Jones
The Grand Budapest Hotel, (Wes Anderson, 2014), Sunday, 11.05pm, Channel 4
What a brilliantly inventive delight this is. Wes Anderson’s lovely, loopy comedy is set in the eponymous hotel, in the fictional, mittel-European town of Zubrowka, where renowned concierge Monsieur Gustave (a superb Ralph Fiennes) and orphan bellboy Zero (Tony Revolori) become embroiled in a struggle for a priceless painting. The script is hilarious, the characters colourful, the action zany and, best of all, the fantastical hotel is a triumph of gorgeously eccentric art design. Paul Howlett
Death on the Nile, (John Guillermin, 1978), 12.25pm, ITV3A big-screen Agatha Christie from an earlier era. Peter Ustinov is impressively weighty as the great Belgian detective, faced with a luxury cruise-liner full of suspects after the killing of spoilt heiress Lois Chiles. Among the illustrious passengers are Bette Davis, Angela Lansbury, Maggie Smith, Mia Farrow and Jon Finch. Paul Howlett
Falling Down, (Joel Schumacher, 1993), 9pm, ITV4Abandoning his car in a traffic jam, sacked white-collar worker Michael Douglas embarks on a picaresque journey across a witheringly hot and vicious LA. He takes up arms, in the American way, against his troubles, the excellent Douglas seething with frustration at the unfairness of life. Barbara Hershey is his ex-wife, Robert Duvall the edge-of-retirement cop with one last job to do. Funny, sad and wise. Paul Howlett
Boyz n the Hood, (John Singleton, 1991), 11.15pm, BBC2This landmark drama about a young black lad’s struggle on the streets of LA, where crack, bad cops and gang warfare are rife, is now seen as a key work in the Black Lives Matter era. Young Tre Styles (Cuba Gooding Jr) avoids violence, until his friends are shot up. Singleton’s deeply compassionate tale pulses with authenticity. Paul Howlett
ODI Cricket: England v West Indies The third game of the series, from the County Ground, Bristol. 10.30am, Sky Sports Cricket
Premiership Rugby: Exeter Chiefs v Wasps Action from Sandy Park. 2.30pm, BT Sport 1
Premier League Football: Brighton & Hove Albion v Newcastle United Struggling Brighton meet unexpectedly high-flying Toon. 3.30pm, Sky Sports Premier League
!!!@@@$$$

I was a fledgling photographer, just starting out in London in 1967. The Observer called and asked me if I’d like to shoot the Queen. The thought of it really scared the pants off me, so I said: “I don’t think I can.” I’m not going to tell you what my wife said to me when I told her.
So I had second thoughts and I phoned them back. They said: “We want to show people that the Queen is a real living person, that she can do everyday things.”
We went to Balmoral and were shown into a living room that was so big you could park an aeroplane in there. The Queen came in and she was very sweet. At that point there were just three of us: the Queen, myself and my assistant. The dogs were there, four or five of those, but no other people, no guards, nothing.
They said, 'We want to show people that the Queen is a real living person'
“Where do you normally sit when you’re here?” I asked. And the next thing I knew, she was on the floor, in front of the fire. I thought, I don’t believe this.
Her skin was almost perfect. It’s white without a flaw in it. It was like crushed pearl shells. I took 200 pictures of her by the fireplace. When she started to stand up I went over to help. She smiled and said: “I’m not that old yet.”
I asked if we could take some pictures outside. She said: “I’m going to go upstairs and change my clothes and you just wait by the door.” All of a sudden, I saw her going up the stairs two at a time. I had my camera around my neck and I got a few snaps of her that are slightly blurred, but you can tell it’s her.
She reappeared in a kilt and we went outside. Suddenly she whistled and about 20 Highland ponies came running. That was amazing.
I was told I would be lucky if I had about six minutes, and I’d already used 20 at this point, so I took the photographs of her and I didn’t push it any further. We said our goodbyes in the giant entrance of Balmoral. I was very polite. I was taken with her as a genuine human being. You wanted to give her a hug, as if she were your aunt who you hadn’t seen for 20 years.
I was the first American ever to shoot her. At the time, there were not many people like her. People you just did not come by easily. There was the Pope, General Franco…
After that shoot I would never be frightened again because I burned out my nervous system that day. I’ve shot five prime ministers since then and I’ve been in 10 Downing Street several times – no problem.
WeTransfer Studios and The Full Service present interviews with prolific music photographers curated by Rankin. All three premiere on 26 September on WeTransfer wetransfer.com/thisworks/2017/09/26/the-backstage-sessions/
!!!@@@$$$

Stevie Wonder has shown his solidarity with sports stars who were criticised by US president Donald Trump for kneeling on the field during the national anthem.
Trump prompted outrage among NFL and NBA players when he said on Friday that players who have knelt, sat or raised fists to protest police brutality against black people, were “sons of bitches” and should be made to stand for the Star Spangled Banner or be fired.
Players responded to the insult with rage, labelling the president a “bum” and an “asshole”.
NFL commissioner Roger Goodell was also critical, saying in a statement: “Divisive comments like [Trump’s] demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL.”
The situation further deteriorated when Stephen Curry, star player of the Golden State Warriors, said he voted “no” to the NBA champions visiting the White House in February and Trump promptly rescinded the invite.
The president tweeted: “Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team, Stephen Curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!”
In their own statement, the Warriors accepted they would not be going to the White House. But they said they would use their trip to Washington to “celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion”.
Cleveland Cavaliers star forward LeBron James released a video on Saturday saying Trump had tried to divide the country. “He’s now using sports as the platform to try to divide us,” James said. “We all know how much sports brings us together ... It’s not something I can be quiet about.”
The controversy moved outside the sports industry on Saturday night when Stevie Wonder, performing at the Global Citizens Festival in New York’s Central Park, said he was “taking a knee for America” to cheers from the crowd.
With the help of his son Kwame Morris he knelt down on stage before saying a prayer for “our planet, our future, our leaders of our world”.
WATCH: Stevie Wonder takes a knee on the stage "for America" at #GCFest https://t.co/lXIMO8fvcT https://t.co/qE97FFQmMH
Back on the sports field, the trend spread to baseball, with Oakland’s catcher Bruce Maxwell becoming the first major league baseball player to take a knee during the anthem.
VIDEO: Oakland A's catcher Bruce Maxwell becomes first Major League Baseball player to take a knee during anthem pic.twitter.com/YBprRuY4ny
!!!@@@$$$

Kiefer Sutherland is about to enter the Oval Office for a new term of office and it is daunting. As the lead in the American political thriller series Designated Survivor, the Hollywood star knows that, now more than ever, when you play the president of the United States you are handling a fundamental national myth.
“You have to grow up in America to really understand this belief that anyone can be president,” Sutherland told the Observer. “There is a very strong idea that everybody has the potential to be great. And that clearly has both good and bad sides.”
The Emmy award-winning actor, famous for films such as The Lost Boys and Flatliners, became a household name as Jack Bauer in 24, the landmark television thriller of the early 2000s. In his latest series, made by Netflix, Sutherland plays a low-level cabinet member who is thrust into leadership after a major terrorist attack wipes out fellow members of the US government.
It is a dark premise, said the actor and co-producer, which goes to the heart of a powerful American faith in their system. From George Washington’s fabled inability to tell a lie, through to Mr Smith Goes to Washington, the much-loved 1939 Frank Capra film in which James Stewart challenges corruption on Capitol Hill, respect for democracy has been built on a shared belief that the little man can win in the end.
“It is a story that fits into the American narrative,” said Sutherland. “Being president is seen as the greatest accomplishment. From a very early age this is true, so when children are asked what they want to be when they grow up they say president of the United States. It really is what people fantasise about, although ultimately the reality of it is not the way it seems. The problem is that those qualities that make you more capable of understanding the job are the ones that would stop you wanting to do it.”
People do find it reassuring that in our show almost everything is approached with a level of common sense.
Just as the first series of 24 in 2001 seemed to predict the terror threat to come, so Sutherland’s current portrayal of a president struggling to understand the demands of high office has found topical echoes in the era of Donald Trump.
“We are not looking to what is happening in real life but sometimes it comes close,” he said. “In the same way, when 9/11 happened we were already six months into filming 24, but we made no deliberate allusions to it. And again now, we are not mirroring what is going on – that is not our show. We are not looking directly at Trump, although of course the idea that someone can come into office and start making very different decisions is a very ‘Americana’ thing.”
In the show, Sutherland’s President Tom Kirkman repeatedly has to choose between trusting his own instincts or the advice of his experienced aides.
“We are trying to tell the story of a man who is there by virtue of extreme circumstances and is making a sacrifice in order to do the right thing. What we would really like to get into, now we are in the second season, is a place where, in the end, you have to have huge respect for the job,” said Sutherland.
Kirkman’s wife, an immigration lawyer and an uncertain first lady, is played by British star Natascha McElhone. “Natascha is back in the new series and she is fantastic,” he said. “It is a world that can tear a family apart and we are dealing with the effect of this job. With other shows I love, like The Wire or The Sopranos, we know you can go quite dark. Don’t ever underestimate what an audience has the ability to digest. People can relate to the honesty. And then, of course, there is also the opportunity to do something that is inspiring with it.”
In troubled political times there can be some comfort, Sutherland suggested, in watching politics play out safely on the small screen. “On television we have control over the outcome, of course, so it can actually look more functional than real-world politics. People do find it reassuring that in our show almost everything is approached with a level of common sense. It may not end up winning the day, but it is clear what the right choice is.”
Sutherland, 50, will also be seen next week alongside British star James Norton in the remake of Flatliners. This time he has the cameo role of a professor, assumed to be an older version of the character he played in the original, opposite Kevin Baconcorrect and Julia Robertscorrect. He is touring Canada with his country music band while making the television show, which goes out on Netflix after an initial broadcast on ABC. And although the part of a US president might seem far from his real life as a travelling musician and former Hollywood wild child, political leadership runs in his blood. His mother, the actress Shirley Douglas, was the daughter of Tommy Douglas, the former premier of the Canadian province of Saskatchewan, who is often credited for bringing universal healthcare to Canada.
The Daddy A comforting Martin Sheen as President Jed Bartlet in The West Wing (1999-2006).
The Figurehead An imposing Geena Davis as President Mackenzie Allen in ABC’s series Commander in Chief (2005).
The Gamechanger Dennis Haysbert as President David Palmer in 24, possibly paving the way for Barack Obama (2001-2006).
The Snake Kevin Spacey as the slippery President Frank Underwood in Netflix’s House of Cards (2013-present).
The Fallen Eve Robin Wright as Flotus eventually turned Potus Claire Underwood in House of Cards (2013-present).
The Incompetent Julia Louis-Dreyfus as hapless Vice-President Selina Meyer in Armando Iannucci’s sitcom Veep (2012- present).
!!!@@@$$$

Life is hard if you’re a pedant. When Kim Jong-un taunted Donald Trump by pronouncing that “a frightened dog barks louder”, I paused for longer than one might in the face of an approaching apocalypse to wonder whether it shouldn’t be “barks more loudly”.
But that didn’t sound quite right. Then again, a verb needs an adverb, right? And on and on, while everyone else Googled “intercontinental ballistic missile medium range how far”. With “dotard”, however, I was on surer ground, having had my nose in a book since God was a lad. I knew it wasn’t some new variation on those revolting insults that people fling about on the internet – libtard, cucktard, etc – but rather a word that goes right back to Chaucer and Shakespeare and means, essentially, batty old man.
This is one of the problems with Kim Jong-un: even terrifyingly dangerous and brutal dictators are occasionally on the money.
Why are so many of these insults centred on male potency? Why do they tacitly equate power with masculinity and youth?
Meanwhile, it was lucky that everyone had dotard to think about, because it was a brief diversion from trying to work out what a Centrist Dad is. This is one of those Twitter neologisms – in this case a Twinsult, if you will – that suddenly crops up and makes you feel out of the current affairs loop. Roughly speaking, it appears to describe the kind of man whose politically moderate views make everyone dislike him and who – this is the dad thing – is also keen to assert the responsible, nurturing, forward-looking part of their identity.
Centrist Dad is not the “absolute boy” – Jeremy Corbyn himself – and although he might be an “absolute melt” (weedy), I don’t think he’s quite as disdained as an “absolute slug” (baddie). But I may have that all arse about face.
It is impossible to keep up. “Cuck” took me forever to work out, even though I sort of knew what it meant and assumed it was related to the word “cuckold”. Why are so many of these insults centred on male potency? Why do they tacitly equate power with masculinity and youth? Why do I feel like it’s 1994 and I’m reading an issue of Loaded? Don’t answer, these are entirely rhetorical questions.
It's easy to find an insult clever when you agree with it, for example, when Boris Johnson was dubbed Schrödinger’s Twat
Hurling insults around is nothing new, of course. When Denis Healey described being attacked by Geoffrey Howe as “like being savaged by a dead sheep”, even the ovine imagery wasn’t a first; Winston Churchill had already described Clement Attlee as “a sheep in sheep’s clothing”.
Perhaps they simply did it better in the olden days. Trump, after all, is a useless insulter, leaving exclamation marks and capital letters to do far too much of the heavy lifting. “Madman”, “loser terrorist”, “sad” – who is left reeling by that? Is there a more underpowered jibe than “Crooked Hillary”?
It is, of course, easy to find an insult clever when you agree with its sentiment; when Russell Brand called Nigel Farage “a pound shop Enoch Powell”, for example, or when Boris Johnson was dubbed, on last week’s Remainiacs podcast “Schrödinger’s Twat”.
Naturally, we all abhor ad hominem attacks, gratuitous offensiveness, outright abuse. Some of us also feel that anger is not an excuse for standards and grammar to slip. But we can cope with a bit of to and fro, surely? It’s not as if we’re all melts.
!!!@@@$$$

Is it time to stop boorishly calling out the supposed liberal hypocritical elite (what one might term the hypocrati)? Benedict Cumberbatch has spoken about when he was playing Hamlet in 2015 and made an on-stage appeal on behalf of Syrian refugees, passing around a collection bucket and decrying the Tory government (which had agreed to accept only 20,000 Syrian refugees in five years), shouting: “Fuck the politicians!”
Cumberbatch now says he doesn’t regret speaking up, though he “got overexcited and said things in a rather grand manner some nights”.
He also said that he was aware of censure for not giving a refugee a home himself, thought about doing it, but he and his wife had a young son to look after, and…
Let’s stop Cumberbatch there. Why should he have to justify himself?
I’ve had issues with Cumberbatch in the past, not least when he farcically whinged about other people complaining (quite rightly) that there was far too much posh-dominance in British acting. Nothing to be alarmed about – just a bit of friendly, arts-based class war.
However, this time, I felt sympathy for him. This trend for demanding that famous people do life-changing things such as house refugees to prove they “mean it, man!” is ridiculous. Why does it follow that if someone such as Cumberbatch criticises a government policy he is then instantly morally obliged to take a refugee into his home? The rationale is seemingly that then (and only then, mind!) could they be judged to be sincere in what they had said.
It has become embedded in the culture – famous people who speak out made to jump through every hoop going in order to “prove” their sincerity, when plenty of people wouldn’t dream of taking in a refugee, even if they had the room or if they didn’t have a young child. And not because they don’t care about the plight of refugees, but because, for different reasons, most simply aren’t willing or able to offer one a home. Instead, people offer what they can – giving money, signing petitions, pressuring the government or, as in Cumberbatch’s case, standing on a stage with a collection bucket, getting “overexcited”.
There’s a feeling that celebrities should put their actions where their agonised, mewling gobs are
Understandably, people sometimes become a bit cynical and weary when they see yet another celebrity “bleeding heart” veritably bursting an aorta over some worthy cause. Some feel, with a certain justification, that too often it’s all about display without consequences (“Look how wonderful and caring I am!”). There’s a feeling that celebrities should put their actions where their agonised, mewling gobs are. On the other hand, isn’t this sometimes rather ungenerous, not to mention nonsensical? When major celebrities such as Cumberbatch speak up, they generate national and international headlines, raising awareness in a manner that few others could manage. Is it truly more important that he makes up a bed in the spare room?
Obviously, a famous person homing a refugee would be very valuable in terms of publicity and visibility. It also goes without saying that anyone who opens a home to a refugee is amazing. However, it’s also a major decision and even celebrities have real lives and families going on. The point is that, if someone such as Cumberbatch decides that they can’t do it, they’re no more “hypocritical” than anyone else who worries about refugees, donates money, signs petitions, raises awareness, but doesn’t feel able to actually house someone.
It isn’t hypocrisy to draw a line about what you can and can’t do. Nor should the famous be under any pressure to make grand gestures to prove that they care. All this does is perhaps make them question whether it’s worth the inevitable bashing they receive when they get involved. While celebrities are by no means beyond reproach, ultimately this becomes yet another way of shutting high-profile caring people down. Anyone want to applaud that?
!!!@@@$$$

When Burt Lancaster walks along the beach of the fictional village of Ferness in the hit film Local Hero, the outline of a dark island is visible across the sea behind him. The isle is Skye and the film, made by Bill Forsyth in 1983, remains one of Scotland’s cinematic triumphs.
Fittingly, this stretch of Skye coastline is to become home to a brave new adventure for the Scottish film industry. This week the film producer Chris Young, a former disciple of Forsyth, is launching a major film centre on the south of the Hebridean island that will emulate Robert Redford’s famous Sundance complex in Utah.
“The Sundance Institute’s feature film programme has really inspired us,” said Young this weekend. “At their base in Utah, with the backdrop of the Rocky Mountains, participants are encouraged to take creative risks and experiment.”
After years working on small-budget films and Gaelic-language television projects, Young’s fortunes changed overnight in 2011 with the success of The Inbetweeners Movie, based on the popular Channel 4 sitcom. Its huge box office success, taking the record for the biggest opening weekend for a comedy in British cinemas, made its producer a rich man.
“It was like winning the lottery,” Young told the Observer, “although few people had thought it would make money. Financial advisers were soon telling me to invest in property in London and I was on the point of doing so when I thought about my family back on Skye and realised there was a way to promote a homegrown Scottish film production centre as well as work near home.”
The Young Films studio already running inside Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, a higher-education college in Fas near the Sound of Sleat, is the base for making the successful Gaelic television series Bannan and production soon starts on a major feature film about the Lockerbie disaster. But now, in collaboration with the Glasgow and Edinburgh film festivals and the National Film and Television School, Young has created a residential training scheme to encourage new talent, as well as planning an annual forum for directors, writers and producers to watch movies and discuss the industry.
The new Young Film Foundation will initially offer six developing film-makers time to work on their projects under guidance and has won support from Creative Scotland. “The pilot will offer a unique opportunity for new Scottish-based writers, directors and producers to develop their projects with experienced industry practitioners across feature film, comedy and broadcast drama,” said the organisation’s Mark Thomas.
Young, who was born in Edinburgh and speaks Gaelic, has lived on Skye with his children and his artist wife, Julie Brook, for 20 years and most of his work has been based there since 2012.
“To me, it has always been an inspiring and creative place,” he said. “We couldn’t film Bannan without the support of our local community, so while conceiving this foundation it was important that it was very much tied to Sleat and Skye.”
Young also aims to boost the wider Scottish production scene, which shows clear signs of a renaissance. Last year the Scottish culture secretary Fiona Hyslop revealed that a record £52.7m had been spent filming in Scotland in 2015. This was a £7m increase on the previous year and marked the growing use of Scottish landscapes as backdrops for large-scale productions, such as the recent hit British-American television show Outlander. The new Avengers blockbuster from Marvel Studios, Avengers: Infinity War, is thought to be the largest single production Scotland has ever seen, while director David Mackenzie is currently shooting a big budget film about Robert the Bruce for Netflix, Outlaw King, starring Chris Pine, Aaron Taylor-Johnson and Florence Pugh.
What is more, a contentious proposal for a £250m studio near Edinburgh won approval from the Scottish government last April, and BBC Scotland has announced plans for a new Scottish channel.
In recognition of all this activity Scottish first minister Nicola Sturgeon announced last month that the National Film and Television School is to set up a hub in Scotland next year. It will be based at BBC Scotland’s studios in Pacific Quay in Glasgow and at Dumbarton Studios, just outside the city.
But Young believes Skye can be both the biggest lure and a complementary facility for film-makers in Scotland. He plays down recent claims that the island is overrun with visitors.
“This is a ridiculous claim really, because the island thrives on visitors and there are only a very few sites which get busy at certain times of year. I know people will want to come to Skye to make films and learn, and that is not just because of the new Torabhaig whisky distillery also opening nearby early next year,” he said.
“Just as the Rockies are a huge feature of Sundance, we believe our place in the Scottish Highlands and islands is key to attracting applicants and world-class mentors. Eventually, I hope we can make Skye as renowned as Sundance.”
Downloaded applications for the Young Film Foundation can be submitted in English or in Gaelic via the website from 23 October to 1 December.
!!!@@@$$$

Actor Julius Tennon is thrilled to be appearing alongside his Oscar-winning wife, Viola Davis, in the new season of her hit show How to Get Away with Murder. It is rare they work together on screen. Off screen, however, the power couple have a joint mission: to change the face of Hollywood by increasing diversity across the industry.
A study has shown that despite the huge success of recent films such as Fences, starring Davis and Denzel Washington, Moonlight and Hidden Figures, Hollywood remains as white and male-dominated as ever. Representation of race, gender, LGBT and disability has barely changed in the past 10 years, according to research by academics at the University of Southern California (USC).
“That study was important because it’s highlighting what the state of Hollywood really is,” said Tennon. “Obviously there are pipeline issues at the top with people of colour.” Some networks were doing a good job, he said, but “slow she goes. It’s a brick-by-brick situation.”
He continued: “When I go to meetings, it’s generally not African Americans that I’m talking to about getting something greenlit. Folks at the top are going to have to make decisions about trying to make systemic change. That’s the only way it’s going to happen.”
He and Davis, who married 14 years ago and have a seven-year-old daughter, Genesis, set up their multimedia company, JuVee Productions, in 2011 to try to tackle the problem from within. They wanted to create more suitable roles for Davis’s talent.
Tennon, 63, said: “We started it out for her career, for Viola to be more than this woman who turns a piece of baloney into a filet mignon. She was getting one or two scenes in a movie and some guest-star TV work, but after Antwone Fisher [a 2002 film starring and directed by Denzel Washington], there were a lot of eyes on her.”
They quickly decided to expand their goal to try to create opportunities for a diverse range of people on and off screen.
“While we had this elevation in the industry, we felt it was a chance to give opportunities to others, whether that be actors or below-the-line people,” Tennon said. “We consider ourselves the voice of the voiceless.”
No one says anything because why would you? To change is to risk losing money, changing your vision, being exposed
The USC study looked at the 100 top-grossing films at the US box office last year. It found that 5.8% of directors were black and 3.3% Asian. Just 4.2% of directors, 20.7% of producers, 13.2% of writers and 1.7% of composers were female, and only 31% of the speaking roles went to women. LGBT characters filled just 1.1% of all speaking parts and people with disabilities 2.7%. No black women appeared in 47 of the films and there were no black female directors.
“The reason diversity is still an issue is that everyone is not ‘put to task’,” said Davis. She said it was a much bigger issue than casting and stories, agreeing with Tennon that it was a “pipeline problem”. “If a writer, director, cinematographer, actor of colour is out there, they have the talent but haven’t had the opportunities. So, when the studios start putting together their movies, they go for who they know, who they’ve worked with … the hottest, buzziest, the one with the résumé … and most of them are white.”
She added: “No one says anything, because why would you? To change is to risk losing money, changing your vision, being exposed. It’s a problem that needs to be tackled from the studio heads who give the greenlight vote to film-makers who can simply envision a role differently, to producers who can give a budding, gifted cinematographer grip, writer of colour a chance, and finally to audiences to plop down money to see a film character differently. It requires being awoke.”
Tennon, who has appeared in more than 50 films and TV series, these days concentrates mostly on running JuVee and producing. The company takes on everything from virtual reality and digital content to television and film.
Their first film, Lila & Eve, with Davis and Jennifer Lopez, was released in 2015. Custody, featuring Davis, followed in 2016. Next spring they start shooting The Personal History of Rachel Dupree, the story of an African American woman struggling to farm the badlands in South Dakota in 1917. A biopic of Barbara Jordan, the first Southern black woman to be elected to the House of Representatives, is in the development stage. Both will star 52-year-old Davis. They are also working on the movie adaptation of Rachel Lloyd’s critically acclaimed book Girls Like Us, a true story about sex trafficking.
Tennon said Davis, who won an Oscar for Fences this year and was nominated in 2012 for The Help and 2009 for Doubt, “touches people across the globe”. He added: “We’re using the platform to push things forward.”
The first three seasons of How to Get Away with Murder are available on Netflix. “It’s exploded her star,” he said. “She’s sitting in all these different living rooms where a black woman wasn’t sitting, and it’s powerful. As a company, we feel like we have to make sure that the content going out is above and beyond. When we create narratives, we want them to be whole and full and rich, and non-stereotypical.
“We’re in a market now that’s accelerated by technology. Diversity is what we’re bringing to the digital space. We want content for everyone and content that people of colour will consume.”
Mentioning the global success of Moonlight, Hidden Figures and Fences, he said: “We’re in a space now where diversity is good business and people should see it like that.”
Organisations should be hiring people of colour in executive positions, he believes, and thinking how to “include these people to help shape things so they have a complete slate, that has a little bit of everything.
“Those organisations that are thinking that way, big and expansive, will be the winners,” he said.
Sir Lenny Henry, who has long campaigned on diversity issues in the British television industry, spoke out recently about the number of BBC staff from a BAME  (black, Asian and minority ethnic) background. The BBC said it was about 14%, but Henry claimed the number responsible for making programmes was closer to 1.5%.
The actor and comedian wrote in the Guardian: “There are undoubtedly more people of colour on our television screens, and more women in high-profile positions. But the fact is that, while things might look like they are getting better, if you scratch the surface there is still a long way to go. The gender pay gap still persists, and the people who make TV programmes are still far from diverse.
“I believe that if we want to change our industry we must look beyond what we see on our TV screens and fix the bigger problems lying beneath. When it comes to racial diversity that means looking at who commissions and makes the programmes.”
!!!@@@$$$

Next Saturday, 30 September, BBC Radio 1, 2, 3 and 4 will all be 50 years old. There will be celebrations. Let’s imagine what they could be like. Radio 1, with its cooler best friend 1Xtra, has been excited about its birthday for weeks and its party would take up the whole weekend, moving from cocktails at a celebrity do to raving on stage with a festival headliner, followed by seven hours’ clubbing madness and a fully Insta-ed comedown. Radio 2 has decided to have a few chums over for dinner and a chat about house prices, before pushing the chairs back for a kitchen disco. Radio 3 is attending an interesting panel discussion on ancient history, a classical concert and spending Sunday on its PhD. And Radio 4 has read all the broadsheets before 6am and is prodding you awake to tell you exactly what it thinks.
We know the personalities of these anonymously numbered radio stations as though they were our friends. We get annoyed when they behave out of character; they have been woven through our national story for half a century. But in a swipe-left-multi-format-binge-watch world, can these old pals continue as they are?
The four stations began as a reaction, a late response to a changing world. In the mid-1960s, pirate stations such as Radio Caroline and Radio London began to broadcast pop music 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and millions tuned in. The BBC’s existing radio stations – the World Service, Home Service, Light Programme, Music Programme and Third Programme – were either not designed to play pop or not so much of it and had no proper response to the pirates. So the BBC went to the government and, in 1967, the Marine, etc, Broadcasting (Offences) Act was passed, which effectively banned pirate radio stations. (Supposedly, prime minister Harold Wilson only agreed to this as part of a bargain: he wanted to establish the Open University and the BBC agreed, in return for scuppering the pirates.) The act came into effect on 14 August 1967, and six weeks later, on 30 September, the Home Service became Radio 4, the Third Programme became Radio 3, the Light and Music Programmes merged to become Radio 2, and Radio 1 was created. Not from thin air; the new pop station snaffled several Radio Caroline DJs and a few from the Big L (Radio London), including John Peel, whose late-night show, The Perfumed Garden, had been a surprise success. It even nicked the Wonderful Radio London jingle, just substituting the word one for London.
In truth, the BBC was forced to create Radio 1, and with that, Radio 2, 3 and 4, and its longest-standing DJ, Annie Nightingale (she started in 1970), recalls an underlying feeling that many people didn’t want the station to exist. “It was manned by technical people who came out of the RAF, who knew nothing about music,” she says. “A memo said: ‘We are never going to have this American-style radio here, with disc jockeys.’” And it was not an instant success, sharing airtime with Radio 2 in the afternoons and playing fewer songs than the pirates had done because of weird needle time laws that restricted the amount of recorded music that the BBC could broadcast in any 24-hour period.
But by the mid-70s, Radio 1 was the most popular radio station in the country, and continued in that spot until the 2000s, when Radio 2 took the top place. Today, Radio 2 is still the UK’s most popular station (it has more than 15 million listeners), with Radio 4 coming in second (around 11 million). And the family of four has expanded, with Asian Network starting in 1988, 5 Live (originally Radio 5, in 1990) established in 1994, and the digital stations 1Xtra, 4 Extra and 6 Music all beginning in 2002. None, despite various threats of closure, most notably Asian Network and 6 Music, look anything other than well established. They, too, are part of how our country sees itself.
Fifty years on, Radio 1 is still doing well; by far the most digitally savvy of the original BBC stations, it has established itself as a YouTube player, with a witty social media presence that drives up listenership. It is very much supported by 1Xtra, its urban sister, which has provided most of Radio 1’s UK stars. Radio 2 is a purring Rolls- Royce, expensive but worth it. It knows its audience inside out. Its specialist shows are excellent – blues, folk, jazz, country, on selected evenings at 7pm – and its weekend offering is a great blend of charismatic personalities (Graham Norton, Liza Tarbuck, Paul O’Grady) and music. But Radio 2’s weekday daytime DJs are still very white and very male (no women or BAME presenters between 6.30am and 8pm) with the impression given by management that this will not change until one of them actually drops dead on air. Radio 3 gets the least attention, except during the Proms, but as classical music’s popularity wanes among the young, that’s hardly a surprise. One wag described it as Radio Dignitas. It’s better when more experimental – as on Late Junction and Hear and Now – and The Essay is always worth a listen.
And Radio 4? Ah, Radio 4. We could be here for ever arguing about Radio 4. There is still a strong sense that the station represents the UK; or should do. It is the broadcaster to which – by law – we will turn in a national emergency. The station has high status, but this hampers development. There are many shows on Radio 4 that began before 1967: The Archers, Any Questions?, From Our Own Correspondent, Today, Book at Bedtime, Desert Island Discs, Woman’s Hour. They sit weightily in their slots, formats created decades ago, presenters glued to their headphones. Who would dare to change them? Not the commissioners, who are “aware” of concerns about the BBC’s representation of minorities but don’t seem to clock that they’re the ones who could make changes. Not the producers, who, even since the Brand-Ross-palavers, still have far less status than the presenters. Not the audiences, who hate change and age alongside the shows, but seem unable to outlive them. We will all be worm fodder long before anyone dares to cancel Just a Minute, let alone Today’s utterly redundant Thought for the Day.
There are programmes that demonstrate that modernisation is possible. PM, the late-afternoon news analysis show, started in 1970, but is right up to date, engaging its audience through social media and switching with aplomb between humour, humanity and hard journalism as needed.
The Today programme is not so nimble. The station’s flagship breakfast show has broadened its remit under new editor Sarah Sands, with outside broadcasts from London fashion week and Silicon Valley, and the very odd Puzzle of the Day. But this new approach exposes gaping holes in its presenters’ abilities. John Humphrys, in particular, seems baffled by much of what he is being asked to cover, and has an unforgivable tendency to adopt a sneering tone about arts and culture. His default setting is argument, when inquiry would be a better approach. Humphrys’ longstanding adversarial approach is inbuilt in Today, which leads to ridiculous situations, such as comedy writers being pitted against each other or, more seriously, climate change being given maybe-it-exists-maybe-it-doesn’t presentation (it exists). There is no need to interrogate people who might be better explaining what they do. There is a great need to take lying politicians to task.
Speaking to those who work with and for Radio 4, the station’s commissioning process is the source of much angst among independent operators. Most Radio 4 commissioners are now part-time so find it easier to keep commissions inhouse or hand them to larger operators. And the station – along with Radio 2 – has a too-white-too-male problem. Insiders describe situations when lists of potential BAME presenters have been provided, which commissioning editors ignore, while plumping for yet another straight white man. The station, still monitored by government, finds it hard to move into the modern world. Its comedy is going through a safe, Cambridge Footlights moment (again). Its documentaries are excellent, but suffer from over-explanation when they begin: they could learn from the “big reveal moment” podcasts offer. Radio 4 doesn’t seem able to get its head around podcasts. Its drama is light years behind that of its podcast rivals.
Perhaps the trickiest aspect to the station is the station itself. I’ve found that as soon as you sit down in a Radio 4 studio, you start talking like a Radio 4 person. Everyone within Radio 4 operates within its own distinct atmosphere. A solution is outside reporting. And outside presenters: the most charismatic on the station have a working life outside the BBC.
Today, the biggest rivals to the 1967 four – and to all the other BBC stations – are digital. Music streaming, podcasts, YouTube. Increasingly, those of us who would have switched on Radio 4 turn to podcasts. Fifty years ago, Radios 1, 2, 3 and 4 were forced into existence as a reaction to a changing world. The world is changing even faster now. Their reactions need to be quicker.
Miranda Sawyer is the Observer’s radio critic
!!!@@@$$$

I had a dream job, presenting classical music radio [for ABC Classic FM]. Easy. Don’t be late for work, sit in a studio, chat, press the right buttons, go to concerts, chat some more. And that’s what I did for nearly a decade. The job of a radio presenter, at least the way I see it, is to be calm, kind, entertaining. A friend to all. Being light and easy is fine if you feel like that, but if you don’t feel light and easy, what then?
My life might have seemed shiny and smiley from the outside, but inside my mind was being colonised by depression. It began so subtly. A slight feeling of being off with the world. Tiny frustrations at injustices. Then I slipped to a new level and the smallest annoyance became too much to deal with. I began to lose my concept of joy. Everything seemed to have a smear of putrescence, nothing was healthy, nothing was whole, nothing was simple and happy. I didn’t need the Taliban ban on laughing outside. I didn’t laugh anywhere.
Depression is leaden and wily; it seeps into every atom and it stops you sleeping, it makes you fat (or thin), it compromises your immune system, it ages every cell, it takes away your self-love, it takes away your sense of humour, it makes you hopeless. I think for me this last was the hardest. All my life, throughout a tough childhood of bullying and a violent home life, I had kept some hope that things would improve. Now, when my life seemed ideal and with no need to be improved, I couldn’t see any good, anywhere. I couldn’t see any happiness or success.
Depression seems to make you blind, but I also believe it gives you great insight. During this time, as I finally gave up on my ability to work and took sick leave, I started to go to a therapist. Adrienne was perfect. She said it was OK to be depressed. Away from my home life, where I felt guilty about being this way, I could go to Adrienne and speak freely. I could sink back into my depression and try to make friends with it, try to work out what it wanted. We talked about taking antidepressants (I didn’t) and how it was OK to use the depression as a way to deeper self-knowledge. But if there came a time when I simply couldn’t do anything, Adrienne would recommend taking the antidepressants.
I felt safe, somehow, in this blanket of melancholy. I knew my melancholy. I was friends with it finally, which was good as it isolated me from others. Who wants to hang out with a depressed person? I floated outside the world, detached. Eventually it was just melancholy and me, hanging out at home, drinking for two. I listened to ancient choral music. I occasionally rode my bicycle. That was it. I had reached a dead end.
I resigned from the radio. I took sick leave for a month and the ABC managers wrote to me, saying they didn’t want me back on air, so that was that. I applied for a job teaching in Scotland and didn’t get it. I turned around and around in my life, not seeing any way out, any way in. I felt physically in pain with the claustrophobia of my own brain.
And then, on the news I saw a bomb had gone off during the performance of a play at the French Cultural Centre in Kabul. The man who had refounded the music school in Kabul, Dr Sarmast, had been badly injured and at least five people were killed. Sarmast only survived because he had bent down to pick up his phone at the exact moment the bomb had gone off. It was a suicide bomber, a 16-year-old, at a play about suicide bombers. Did the Taliban see the irony? I wrote to Sarmast and said I wanted to apply for the position of cello teacher at the Afghanistan National Institute of Music.
Magical events would happen when people called me a boy. I would thrill at these little exchanges.
At last I had something to aim for. I practised and practised the cello and sent off my audition tape. I did interviews over Skype, with the foreign staff now dispersed around the world after being temporarily evacuated. I clung to the meagre hope that I might get this job. Moving to a war zone was better than living with what was in my head.
I had to wait. There is a total purity in sitting in a room, on your own, knowing that nobody would miss you for several days, if not weeks, if you died. Over Christmas that year I sank down, crashed through, into new levels of despair. I began to think up ways to top myself. A motorbike crash. Walking into the sea. Pills. Pills and alcohol. And perhaps the grimmest of all, locking myself in a room and simply not drinking water.
I write this now and see how sick I really was. My friends distilled into the special few. Friends of an older age, who whenever I saw them hugged me and held me in their wisdom for a few hours. And Richard. Sage, calm, in his 70s and still swimming every day in the ocean. I would go over to his house every week and he would lean at the stove carefully making coffee; we would meander through conversations, me never fully admitting how ill I was, he never openly acknowledging that he really knew. These friends were my safety. If they hadn’t been there … well, they were.
_
In my sessions with Adrienne, the therapist, we had talked about my childhood and my relationship with my mother. For so many years I had not truly seen what my mother had done for her children, but Adrienne allowed me to love her again. We also talked about moving on from radio and the importance of making music in my life. I had been so involved in being a radio presenter I had forgotten my roots; I needed to play the cello and the viola again. And finally, after several months, we came to the subject of my own gender identity.
From the age of maybe five, I had always been confounded by having a girl’s body. I managed to avoid it influencing me much up to around 10, when tiny breasts began to bud on my chest and Tim, my big brother, told me to put my T-shirt back on. From that instant I was locked into femaleness. At 11 I went to an all-girls school. I started my periods and grew hips and a contempt for myself that went so deep, in the end I forgot it was there.
Magical events would happen when people called me a boy. Sometimes this would be embarrassing, for instance when I was about to take off my clothes in a female changing room, but still I would thrill at these little exchanges. I kept my hair short, grew muscles to throw the discus, developed a deep voice and began a very, very long journey of androgyny.
At 14 I realised I was gay. I was at an athletics meeting, waiting for the discus event, and I caught myself staring at a girl hurdler and imagining kissing her. ‘Oh fuck. I’m fucking gay.’ I look forward to the day when young people will say to themselves, ‘Oh great – I’m gay! Woohoo! I can’t wait to tell my mum!’ Not in England in the early 80s. I managed to hide it for a while but other girls at school began to sense something was different and kept their distance. I had my first kiss at 16. With a girl. Gentle lips. Perfume. Slight fingers on my cheek.
I went to music college at 17 and felt somehow obliged to try sex with a man. Kissing a woman had been infinitely complex and tantalising. This was harsh, direct, unsubtle. I confirmed for myself that I was a lesbian and confessed to my mum. She ran from the room and didn’t talk to me for a day. The grim disappointment in her eyes slowly dissipated as I graduated from college, won a big scholarship and went to West Berlin to study. I then embarked on a serially monogamous love life. Seven years was consistently the time limit, straight from one deeply loved woman to the next. There was always a point where I couldn’t give any more of myself. And then I left. If I’d met myself in a bar, I would have felt sorry for me.
From college to my job in the Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra, that was how my 20s spun by. I drank and partied and ate and travelled myself away from any deeper self-knowledge, until I understood what needed to be done to escape the cycle of semi-pleasure/semi-misery.
I decided I needed to get out and about. In fact, to cycle from the UK to Hong Kong. It was on that trip that I had a profound realisation, one that would take 15 years to actually do anything about.
I sat in a five-star hotel room in Multan, Pakistan, finally cool after constant50C days of cycling. I ordered a burger and Coke, and checked what was on the TV. A film, something called Boys Don’t Cry. Hilary Swank. Sure, seemed good enough for an afternoon away from Pakistan. I pressed play, and soon my life would switch from semi-pleasure/semi-misery to just plain misery.
Boys Don’t Cry tells the story of Brandon Teena, a transgender female-to-male who was raped and murdered by two men in 1993. Brandon had grown up in a trailer park and had tried to join the US army and failed, because he refused to put down female as his gender. In his short life he never had treatment for gender reassignment but he presented completely as a man, as the man he knew he was.
My relationship had split up, my career, my home, everything had gone. But I saw that this was as it needed to be
I watched this film and I was totally sideswiped. I was so sure of my homosexuality because I had never seen or imagined anything different. Unless a human is extraordinarily individualistic, we tend to mould ourselves roughly around what we see in others. When I was growing up, a woman realising she was really a man simply didn’t exist within my view. Very occasionally I saw males transitioning to females, but they were nearly always the target of spite and ridicule. And there was never any subtlety of differentiation between transgender people, transvestites, homosexuals and drag queens. Quentin Crisp seemed to be enough to depict all the above. Since society, culture and the media in England were so conservative, I never had the opportunity to see beyond being a lesbian.
As far as I knew, there was nothing beyond that. I could go down the butch lesbian path so that’s what I did, from when I was 14. To now be presented with this story and this possibility tore me apart. Because I knew it was me. I fell around in a mist for the next few days. I had to tell someone, but I was alone. In Pakistan. I reached Lahore and decided I would write everything down in a letter to my sister, Liz. She wrote back (poste restante) and said simply that anything I needed to do, she would support me.
When I realised I was transgender, it was a life-destroying moment: I knew from then on that I would never be happy until I did something about it. But to do something about it meant possibly losing everything. It turned out that I lost everything because I didn’t do anything about it.
How do people have the bravery to go to a doctor, describe these feelings, have very confronting but beautifully liberating surgery, and take hormones that will completely change their sense of self? Even if everything goes well and works out, still, how does one even begin to do this?
I didn’t know, then. I put this knowledge away, very, very tidily, for 15 years. It sat next to my self-contempt, slowly merging together to build a great depression. Over the next few years transgender urges would erupt out of me, and I would spend days looking at trans sites on the internet. Then I would shove everything down again and tell myself it was not necessary to do this thing, that being a butch woman was fine and my girlfriend loves me now but she had told me very clearly she would leave me if I transitioned, and besides, who would employ you and what would Mum think and everybody will see you as a freak and … no. It just wasn’t going to happen. I would stay a woman.
_
There was no work I needed to do while I waited to hear about the Kabul job, so I decided to do what I do best – travel. I looked at my bank balance and a map. What did I need from this travel? I needed physical activity. I needed beauty. I needed somewhere new. I needed time to meditate and I needed quiet. Nepal. I had been looking for a long time at a place called Muktinath, at the top of the Annapurna circuit. Muktinath is a temple holy to both Hindus and Buddhists. It would be bloody freezing at this time of year but it was still possible to get there. I could go and see the temple where dakinis, or sky dancers, were said to inhabit the atmosphere. I could walk alongside my new mate the black dog and try to integrate this depression into myself. If I didn’t get the job in Kabul, I decided, I would kill myself. That was my plan.
As I walked in Nepal, the devastation of my life became unavoidable. I experienced the honesty of having no idea what would happen to me, all the while waiting to hear if I had got the job. I climbed beyond the tree line, wrenched my body into submission, lost 10 kilos and practised Vipassana meditation for two hours every day. As the air thinned, my acceptance of my wrecked life thickened.
And finally, at the temple in Muktinath, I was blessed by the Hindu priest there and received a state of grace. It was all OK. My relationship had split up, my career, my home, everything had gone. But finally, in a moment, I saw that this was as it needed to be. Something floated away from me in that moment. Horror, profound sadness, a corrupted sense of myself. Rumi tells us in one of his poems to travel inside ourselves if we cannot travel outside. The passages inside are ever-changing, like shafts of light. The light in my head changed from a monotone of dullness to a dappled, kind light.
_
On the very day I visited the temple in Muktinath, I finally heard that I had got the job in Kabul. This news saved my life. I walked back down the mountain, came back to Australia and slowly felt my depression melt into me. I had faced it, and we had learnt to live with each other. I also realised it would never go away, and I know now that that is a good thing, because it allows me to see things for what they really are.
What had not killed me had made me stronger. I was going to live in a semi-war zone, and finally I felt at peace.
• This is an edited extract from Danger Music by Eddie Ayres, published by Allen & Unwin, $32.99
• Crisis support services can be reached 24 hours a day: Lifeline 13 11 14; Suicide Call Back Service 1300 659 467; Kids Helpline 1800 55 1800; MensLine Australia1300 78 99 78. In the UK, the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is 1-800-273-8255. Hotlines in other countries can be found here
!!!@@@$$$

The soul singer Charles Bradley has died, it was announced on Saturday. He was 68.
Bradley received a diagnosis of stomach cancer last year. Earlier this month, announcing the cancellation of tour dates in the US, South America and Europe, he said that though he had beaten that illness, the cancer had spread to his liver.
“I love all of you out there that made my dreams come true,” he said in a statement then. “When I come back, I’ll come back strong, with God’s love. With God’s will, I’ll be back soon.”
On Saturday a statement posted to social media said: “It is with a heavy heart that we announce the passing of Charles Bradley. Thank you for your thoughts and prayers during this difficult time.”
Born in Gainesville, Florida in 1948, Bradley was raised in poverty in Brooklyn. He travelled widely, working jobs including being a cook in a psychiatric hospital in Maine, and was homeless for a time. Not long before he was discovered performing a James Brown tribute act under the name “Black Velvet”, his brother Joe was murdered.
“It took 62 years for somebody to find me,” he told NPR in 2011, “but I thank God. Some people never get found.”
In a 2016 interview with Rolling Stone, he said his first experience of a James Brown concert, at the Apollo Theater in New York City in 1962, was “breathtaking”.
“I didn’t know who James Brown really was but I wanted to go see,” he said. “When they called James Brown on stage, I’ll never forget they had this purple light and yellow light – my two favorite colors. And when they introduced him, he came flying on the stage on one leg and I said, ‘What in the hell is this?’
“And I was mesmerized. I was just gone. I was just shocked. Shocked. I said, ‘Wow. I wanna be something like that.’”
As well as comparisons to Brown, Bradley’s voice and full-bodied style attracted comparisons to Otis Redding. In 2014, he told the Guardian: “To stand on stage and sing is a blessing given by the grace of God.
“When I’m out there, I try to give everybody a little taste of my soul. I look out at people’s faces and I see traces in them that I see in myself: a lot of hurt and pain. I try to give them joy: that’s my main motivation.
“It’s not really about being on stage – it’s about reaching to people and giving them the truth about who I am.”
He released three albums on the Daptone label: No Time for Dreaming (2011), Victim of Love (2013) and Changes (2016). Hit songs included The World (Is Going Up in Flames) and Strictly for You and he performed at festivals including Primavera Sound, Coachella, Lollapalooza and Glastonbury.
Reviewing Victim of Love, Guardian music critic Alexis Petridis wrote: “It is perhaps a little romantic – not to mention voyeuristic – to suggest that the travails of Bradley’s life have somehow etched themselves on to his voice, but there’s no doubt that his singing is remarkably powerful. Its rawness touches a nerve.”
Among tributes paid on Saturday, the Afghan Whigs frontman Greg Dulli wrote: “Goodnight, Charles Bradley. You sang from beyond and gave the best hugs.” The Canadian jazz quartet Badbadnotgood said: “We shall forever remember the amazing shows we played together and the moments that the ‘Screaming Eagle of Soul’ through his power and spirit made us cry. Rest In Peace to a true hero CB.”
In 2012, the singer was the subject of a documentary, Charles Bradley: Soul of America. Earlier this year he received an Emmy nomination for a performance on CBS daytime TV.
!!!@@@$$$

Every age creates its signature way of telling and consuming stories. The Jacobeans had the blood and lust of popular tragedy. The Victorians had the great social novel. The 1960s had new journalism. The chosen form of our own age is the downloaded serial drama. While the energy and ambition of screenwriters was for nearly a century invested in two-hour feature films, for the past 10 years, ever since The Wire and The Sopranos and The West Wing showed what might be possible, it has been in the 10-hour arcs, and annual seasons of streamed drama.
Those shows – Scandi-noir, Game of Thrones (and its progeny), Breaking Bad and the rest – have created a new kind of relation between creators and viewers. The stories are made not only for total immersion, but also presuppose the potential for binge-watching. Since Netflix started uploading whole series, days and nights are lost to the “just one more episode” of unfolding dramas, in the way that we might once have been invited to lose ourselves in books.
The idea of bingeing on drama has some negative connotations, but the facts suggest that far from seeing this habit as time wasted, we tend to think of it as fulfilling in the way that time devoted to great fiction always was. In 2013, Netflix did a study into why 73% of viewers felt overwhelming feelings of comfort when immersed in these dramas. The company sent an anthropologist, Grant McCracken, into viewers’ homes to discover the reasons for this: “TV viewers are no longer zoning out as a way to forget about their day, they are tuning in, on their own schedule, to a different world. Getting immersed in multiple episodes or even multiple seasons of a show over a few weeks is a new kind of escapism that is especially welcome.” The usual attention deficit of the internet was replaced by something more complex and satisfying.
We can all sit around and decide we want to make a Louis XIV table, but eventually somebody has to do the carving
The huge demand for such shows and the intense rivalry between Netflix and Amazon, in particular, to create has led to a new kind of mythologised creative space: the writers’ room. The creative pressures of producing multiple series of 10-hour dramas in short order have changed the dynamic of traditional scriptwriting practice. Rather than pairs of writers, or single auteurs, the collective and the collaborative is not only prized but essential.
As favourite shows build their own addictive fanbases – more fragmented than the audience for broadcast TV ever was, but often more cultishly engaged – the writers’ room, the place where the drama begins and ends, has become the subject of intense curiosity and scrutiny. The room is largely an American creation, a development of the comedy bunkhouses that produce The Simpsons or Saturday Night Live. Inevitably there are websites and blogs and memes devoted to gossip about these sacred and profane spaces, places to get a fix of favourite dramas before the next series is uploaded. Some shows – Orange Is the New Black and The Good Wife pioneered the practice – provide the backstory to the genesis and creation scenes in live Twitter feeds, with whiteboards and interview links and photos.
What they mostly reveal is that having ideas – even in groups – and writing them up into scripts is no less painful and laborious than it ever was, but that it now has a kind of endless forward motion.
In his book Difficult Men, Brett Martin describes the rise of the21st-century phenomenon of the streamed drama series, noting that though all writers’ rooms have their own character, they share a few common features. Chief among them, the one “near-absolute” is that in the centre of the room “there will be a quantity and flow of food reminiscent of a cruise ship, as though writing were an athletic feat demanding a constant infusion of calories”.
Other than that energy supply, there are two essential elements: along one wall a whiteboard (“the signature tool of this golden age”) with a grid divided into 10 or 12 columns, one for each episode; and a harassed-looking writers’ assistant feverishly trying to capture every passing comment made by the writers in relation to those episodes and to type it into a laptop before it is lost.
At the centre of all of the chat and ideas is the showrunner, the person charged with getting the writers writing and the series made. This person is rarely relaxed. As David Chase, creator of The Sopranos observed: “Other people have good ideas. And they’re hard to come by. But in another sense, they’re a dime-a-dozen. Turning an idea into an episode – that’s the grunt work. Eventually, the showrunner’s the one who has to look at his watch and say: ‘How do we fill up 42 minutes?’ We can all sit around and decide we want to make a Louis XIV table, but eventually somebody has to do the carving.”
Different writers’ rooms have evolved different processes to try to keep that grunt work going into the fourth and fifth and sixth series. Here, three showrunners explain how they do it.
Eric Newman, producer of genre films such as Dawn of the Dead and Children of Men, spent years researching the rise and fall of Pablo Escobar and the Colombian cocaine trade, with a view to making a feature film of the story. Netflix approached him with the idea of a series, and he offered them the first 10 hours of Escobar’s story. The third series of Narcos, which shows the rise of the Cali Cartel after Escobar’s death, began on Netflix this month.
“This is something I have been living with for 20 years. From the beginning, I wanted this not to be about one trafficker, Escobar. I wanted it to be about a whole evolution of this business.
We have been talking about this series, the macro of it, for what seems like forever. In terms of the process we have what we call tent poles of events, things that happen, turning points that support the rest of the story. Some of them are spectacular, others more subtle – from the end of the cold war to the death of a cop. As writers, we have these events to hit. We take licence occasionally, but there is an obligation to the truth.
The writers’ room is where the research comes together. The nature of the job means above all we all have to know the story inside out. All the characters, where they wanted to go, and how close they got, and where they ended up. All drama arises in the gap between what a person wants and what they get. We always try to talk about the characters as the real people they were: ‘Where is this guy going? What does he want?’ All we will do for the first six to eight weeks in the writing room is just talk about the story. Nothing makes me happier than when one of the writers comes in and says: ‘Look, I found out this amazing thing about this guy last night – how can we use it?’
We are always learning new stuff as we go. One of my favourite things in series two was this guy named Limón. All we had was that there was this guy and he was shot and killed with Escobar. We thought: well, if that is where his story ends, where does it begin? And we came up with this really compelling story in the second episode of season two. We do that a lot. We have a car crash and then trace it backwards.
It is a very difficult and complicated and exhausting process. In any writers’ room – and this is the first show I have written and run – there are two invaluable things: one is inspiration, and the other is those collaborators who have done research. We talk to everybody who was involved, though not to the traffickers that much because they give the same story: they were misunderstood, innocent, not as they were depicted.
Our guiding thematic principle is that this world is extremely complicated. It is never bad guys and good guys. It is bad guys and very bad guys. And there is almost never any justice, only a doomed mission that is underneath it all. By episode seven, we know Escobar will have blown up an airplane. But how he gets there is the fun part. He is a character like Icarus, or Macbeth. An archetype and also the truth. Our job is to find the most dramatic version of that. The veracity of it gets more imperative. I think we are somewhere around 60% to 70% true. But what you find is that this world is full of unreliable narrators, wishful thinkers, self‑deceivers.
I come from movies, and we look at things in terms of a three-act structure. What everyone wants and why they can’t get it has to be established very clearly in the first act. The middle act tends to be an escalation of things, leading in the third act to a massive confrontation. Doing that over 10 hours kind of explodes the drama. Some of the younger writers in the room have grown up with this TV format. Right now we have 10 writers, and the younger ones have had experience primarily in television. For a screenwriter, that always used to be seen as a failure. Now it is the opposite. It has changed over the last 10 years, but particularly since The Wire and The Sopranos, that first golden age of cable television.
I would say in terms of all three seasons I may be the only consistent presence in the writers’ room. People come and go, but you burn out pretty quickly. Every morning I wake up and I attempt to convince my wife that I have no idea what I am doing and that this is the season that will expose me. And then I drive to the office, and almost invariably, after about an hour staring at this massive whiteboard with all the characters and diagrams of who killed whom, we find inspiration. It is like being in a police operations room. The key thing is that this is not a job, and if you try to approach it like a regular job you can’t do it. It requires a level of commitment that only comes if you love it and are interested enough in it to talk about it until exhaustion.”
Jill Soloway is the creator of Amazon’s Transparent, the comedy drama that returned for a fourth season on Amazon last week. Soloway previously worked as a writer on several other series including Six Feet Under and was best director at the Sundance film festival in 2013 for the feature Afternoon Delight.
Transparent stars Jeffrey Tambor as Maura Pfefferman, a retired college professor who opens up to his family about having always identified as a woman. Soloway’s father came out in a similar way in 2011. Tambor and Soloway, who now identifies as nonbinary, both won Golden Globes for Transparent in 2015, the first time an internet-streaming show had won the award for best series.
“I think of our writers’ room like the perfect dinner party or the perfect gathering. You want a whole bunch of different opinions in there and yet you don’t want to get bogged down in conflict. I look for people who understand how to play well with others but who are also strong personalities. In terms of writers, you want people who are shit-starters creatively, but not in real life.
We have been quite a tight team, but for season five of Transparent, which we are writing now, we are having a little transition – losing a few writers and gaining some. We are having more trans women in the writers’ room; we actually have three trans women and five trans people in total if you count people who are gender-nonconforming. It’s exciting to slowly make the room reflect the possibility of the story.
It is always like a group commitment, Monday to Friday. Sitting in that room on the beanbags and dreaming up the characters is the most fun thing ever. I will spend slightly less time there now because I am directing, and I might be editing or whatever, but it is still where I want to be most.
I couldn’t have possibly imagined in a million years that this would happen. The fact that this quite personal thing has turned into a publicly consumed phenomenon is quite special. My sister was the very first person I hired. I really used the show as an excuse to get her to move to LA. We have been writing together since we were kids. She is my first writing partner.
When I first pitched the idea, Amazon Studios were the only ones who really wanted it and because they were just starting we didn’t even know if that was viable. Now it feels like a very safe place. HBO was interested, but they wanted us to do some developing and it maybe would have taken a few years. Amazon went after it really vigorously, and are involved, but with a very light touch. I think the fact that the audience can take it all in one go if they want to and really go into their own experience with it shapes what we do a little. It is a much more involved experience, when it comes to watching and bingeing. We try to think about when people might stop and when they might keep going, in a natural way.
In the writers’ room we plan, but it always changes. Things grow and change and take unexpected turns just like people do. We feel like the souls of the Pfefferman family are real – and they become more real to us with each series. They are really growing. When I see those early series I can’t believe how young Josh and Ali look, like babies.
Six Feet Under was a very similar vibe. I tried to learn from Alan Ball, who led that room. He used to tell us: ‘Just believe the family exists in the centre of the room, and then you all sit around and conjure them up.’ We are like that with the Pfeffermans. We want them to tell us what they want, we want that open feeling when the show starts to write itself, letting the characters come to us in dreams or while we are in the shower.
The writing itself can be tough. I never write when I am trying to write. I have to read the previous draft, take a walk, have a bath, live, think, dream, love, laugh and wait for the inspiration that says, ‘Here is the new scene!’ and only then do I sit down at a computer.
It is a different kind of all-consuming than it was at the beginning. It is a little less painful in a way. I think the show still has dark elements, but we are able to hold on to them a little bit more loosely and let things happen. I don’t feel quite as urgent about trying to collect the pain as I did at the beginning. I had wanted to have my own show for such a long time that in the first couple of years we almost felt like in a race against time. Now we can let the Pfeffermans do their thing and not feel we have to convey an agenda. I am hoping it can continue for many years.”
Alec Berg is the showrunner and an executive producer and director on HBO comedy Silicon Valley, which follows five young techies trying to make their fortune in a startup called Pied Piper. Berg previously worked as a writer on Seinfeld and on Larry David’s Curb Your Enthusiasm and has four Emmy nominations for his writing. Silicon Valley is in its fourth season, and Berg is currently leading the team writing series five, which will air next year.
“Every year we start the writing process by saying: ‘What are the big-picture issues in the real Silicon Valley?’ And: ‘How do we get at them?’ We have dealt with gender issues recently. The big one now is privacy. On the one hand, it is easier to steal from reality than make things up. On the other we have to be very photo-real, which takes a lot of research.
Silicon Valley is a very different thing from Seinfeld or Curb Your Enthusiasm – and harder to write in that those shows were not serialised. It is pretty unique, I think, to try to create a narrative arc of this length in a comedy show. It is not just a day in the life. This is about people who are trying to accomplish something and the big question is, can they accomplish this thing without selling their soul? Every episode has to be a step along that journey.
On Seinfeld there was no writers’ room. Every writer would sit in their own office and work on their own episode. And then you would run it by Larry [David] and Jerry [Seinfeld] and they would say, ‘more of this’, or ‘steer clear of that, someone else is writing the same thing’. On Silicon Valley we have 10 or so writers in the room. We generally all outline together. Then one writer will pick an outline and write a draft. Then the rewriting of that draft is done in smaller groups. You can’t rewrite with 10 people. It’s usually me and the writer and one or two others.
It is a fact of life that whatever you are writing expands to fill the time you have. If we had six months to do one episode, it wouldn’t be enough time. It’s never enough time. The maddening thing is that until you have a deadline, psychologically, it is impossible to make good decisions. You’re never done, but it gets to the point where this is as good as we can make it in the time that we have.
In that sense with Silicon Valley, it is always: anything we have that works goes in. I have never heard anyone say, ‘That’s great! Let’s keep it on the shelf for next year.’ In season one there was that great thing where you could say, ‘Maybe this is the show, maybe that is the show.’ ‘Put this in, this can be the show!’ But the more you do it, the less freedom you have. It becomes more: ‘That’s not the show, that’s not how we do it.’
One thing we know is that failure is generally funnier than success. Every once in a while, we get to the point in the story where the guys in the show have a big win, and then we sit down and say: ‘Let’s write three episodes where things are going great for them.’ And we just can’t do it. It is too boring for the audience. The audience is invested in the characters and wants them to succeed, but if they do succeed, it is not interesting.
My own curse is I now have 25 years of ideas I can’t use. I don’t think I am any better at coming up with good ideas, but I am better at knowing what bad ideas are. I used to think a third of what I wrote was pretty good, now it is about a 10th. Quite often the only way we know something works is that we have written every other possible version of it and it works better than the other things. Even then you are not sure. We are writing things now that won’t air for nine months. Some things are funny now, but won’t be so funny in nine months. Just occasionally the exact right thing comes along at the right time.
One of the strange things about this format is writing without an ending. The first four seasons on Silicon Valley, we pointed the boat out into the middle of the ocean and set sail. We are now starting to have conversations about where we are headed. Season five doesn’t feel like the end, but season six or season seven might. Season five is about half done. We start shooting at the end of October. And then there is constant rewriting of the stuff we are shooting. We never have any idea of what the last two or three episodes will be. In that sense, you can never escape this thing. The shooting crew comes in for three months, and they are kind of nomads, going from one thing to the next. They will often ask me what I am working on next. I will say: ‘I’m working on this. Just on this. I do this all the time.’”
!!!@@@$$$

As Quentin Crisp once pointed out in a lecture: if he were to bring a distinguished old Yorkshireman on stage, the audience might be perplexed; but if he brought a polished abstract sculpture with a hole in the middle, the audience would cry out, “Ah! Henry Moore!” So AA Milne’s long career as poet, playwright, polemicist, peace campaigner and novelist is completely eclipsed by four short children’s books which, as he put it in 1952, he created, “little thinking / All my years of pen-and-inking / Would be almost lost among / Those four trifles for the young”.
That “almost” is no longer needed. Pooh is one of a tiny handful of creations that are so enormously successful we forget the infelicity of their names: Boots, the Beatles, Star Wars, Winnie-the-Pooh. One of the great secrets of success is that, more often than not, it is not the kind of success you were hoping for. You want to be Hamlet but you’re hailed as a clown, and now you can never be any kind of Hamlet. You want to move on but your global hit exerts all the gravity of a planet and you are trapped in its orbit. Failure at least has the comfort of hope. Milne’s life story brilliantly illuminates what it feels like to be tested by huge, unlooked-for success.
It isn’t easy. Frankenstein was so eclipsed by his own creation that it has robbed him of his name. Milne had a long, successful career in the theatre – a world in which the writer becomes accustomed to a certain amount of petting and caressing. He gets to hear the audience call “Author! Author!” No one did that at Pooh events. They wanted to see the bear and – more troublingly – the boy.
Milne isn’t of course the only writer to find himself swallowed up by his own creation. You could say his friend and hero JM Barrie wrote with great commercial success after Peter Pan, but what does “after Peter Pan” mean? Peter Pan was, is and always will be; Barrie’s other works are of their time. The overarching drama of the Sherlock Holmes stories is the great detective’s struggle, not with Moriarty, but with his creator’s attempts to kill him off.
The tragedy of Milne’s success is that it trapped a real child in time like a fly in amber
Milne carved out his career in the suave, seductive world of London’s clubs in the 1920s and the green rooms of Shaftesbury Avenue. It’s good to be reminded of just how long and demanding an apprenticeship he had served before he discovered Pooh. His peerless dialogue has its roots in his playwriting career.
His study of classics and his work on Punch had given him the extraordinary ease and range he shows in the poems. Milne’s are probably the last poems written that really cry out to be memorised and recited. I can’t think of one more easily absorbed and enjoyed than “Disobedience”, nor one that captures so perfectly this childhood terror.
It’s good to be reminded, too, that Pooh was not universally adored, that writers who had admired Milne’s lightness of touch turned on what they saw as the mawkishness of Pooh. “Tonstant Weader,” said Dorothy Parker, “twowed up.” “Timothy Bobbin,” wrote PG Wodehouse, “goes Happily hoppity hoppity hop.” Cruellest of all is Richmal Crompton’s brilliant skewering of the cult of Christopher Robin in the poem “Homework”: “Anthony Martin is doing his sums.” Public adulation is salt in the wound of a writer who has lost the admiration of his peers. Milne’s letters to his brother Kenneth uncover the wellspring of his creativity with all its childish joys, shadowed by tragedy. They are a real find. Of course, when I was asked to write a film about Milne I left that out.
Biography looks for what makes the individual different; drama looks for what we have in common. You can sell a million books if you write a good story well but a cultural phenomenon like Pooh needs something else. It needs to touch a raw nerve. That terrible review by Parker also covered Christopher Morley’s children’s book I Know a Secret – which really is a pile of mawkish mush. There was a fashion for sentimentalising children on which people like Morley successfully cashed in. Milne on the other hand searched it for its source and found something true and terrible and enduring.
The House at Pooh Corner stands in a glade between two dark shadows – the aftermath of one war that had just finished and the dread of one coming. No one who fought in the first world war knew it was the first world war. On the contrary, they had been told that they were fighting the war that would end all wars. It must have been with the most bitter irony and failure, then, that Milne’s generation watched their children march away to a war that they had been told would never happen. The Milnes received that dreaded telegram telling them their son was missing in action and presumed he was dead. This could have happened to anyone; this was feared by everyone. It’s there – something you can build a film around. It’s the shadow that makes the carefree days in the Hundred Acre Wood tremble and shimmer with their own fragility. They are suffused with a sense that happiness is possible and valid even though we know it is short-lived. It’s a feeling that is expressed with peculiar intensity in the political situation of the between-the-war years, but which applies to everyone everywhere all the time.
It is there, too, in the child who plays in the woods – in Christopher Robin himself. On the one hand he is Robin Hood revelling in the freedom of the Greenwood but he’s also a babe lost in the wood. What marks Christopher Robin out from other children in literature – from William, say – is that he’s often absent from the adventures. Often his role is to come and put things right. He’s more like a kindly uncle than a child. Through the carefree forest he carries a burden of responsibility.
The other unusual thing about Christopher Robin of course is that he was – to some extent – a real boy. The difference between Winnie-the-Pooh and, say, Sherlock Holmes, is that Pooh did not just swallow Milne, it also swallowed Christopher Robin. Imagine if Barrie had called Peter Pan Peter Llewelyn Davies. When Czeslaw Milosz said, “When a writer is born into a family, the family is finished”, he meant that a writer will betray his parents and siblings. Milne on the other hand – however innocently – betrayed his son. The magic of the Hundred Acre Wood is that it takes something painfully fleeting and makes it stay for ever. The tragedy of Milne’s success is that it trapped a real child in that moment like a fly in amber and made it almost impossible for him to become that thing that every child wants to become – a grownup. Is there a threat more pathetic and painful than Christopher Robin’s cry “We’ll see how father likes it when I write poems about HIM”?
For all its shadow, what really abides about this story is the light, the sense that happiness – no matter how fleeting – is real. The fact that we are all moved and enchanted by the Hundred Acre Wood, that it calls to us, is proof that these passing moments are as real and essential as the more solid and enduring things with which we surround ourselves, that we find in them something true and paradoxically enduring, even eternal.
!!!@@@$$$

‘I can see that, as a body of writing, it is a rag-bag of styles and genres,” Michael Rosen once said of his work. “But does it matter? I’m not trying to hoodwink anyone. I’m not trying to gain membership to a Peerage of Poets. I write ‘Bits’ and ‘Stuff’.” As always, the future children’s laureate was being both modest and a little feisty. Still, it’s a good description of So They Call You Pisher! It’s a mishmash, at once merry and pensive, of personal memoir, a history of left politics in postwar England, a portal into a lost Jewish London and a portrait of the artist as a nervy young man.
Famous individuals flicker in and out of the narrative – among them Christopher Hitchens, Howard Marks and Clive James (the latter yelling, “I’ll fucking have you! You’re ruining everything I’ve ever worked for!” when Rosen fluffs lines at a student revue audition) – but at its heart are his parents Harold and Connie Rosen. Harold was a poet, a noted educationalist, author of Are You Still Circumcised? (1999), and treated by some contemporaries “as if he was a cross between Lenny Bruce and Isaiah Berlin”. He and Connie met at a Young Communist League meeting in 1936 and both fought against Oswald Mosley’s fascists in the battle of Cable Street that year.
Willy Goldman, author of the timeless East End My Cradle (1940), described himself as “forever a prisoner in this not too tender trap. I can never escape from it and I would never want to.” Unlike his parents, Rosen grew up on the opposite side of London (“1950s Pinner was not the most encouraging place to start a branch of a political organisation aimed at world revolution”), but he absorbs and makes his own stories about the radical, rambunctious East End: women leafleting for rent strikes, live chickens on Hessel Street, dray horses skidding on the winter ice, “old migrants, sailors from all over the world” sitting in Whitechapel library while “talking about ‘the heim’ and politics and playing dominoes”.
The secular Rosens dreamed of another world too. They chose or cut off friends according to their politics. They read the Daily Worker assiduously, brought home books from Moscow’s Foreign Languages Publishing House, went on camping trips, and took holidays in eastern Europe. “They were yearning,” Rosen writes, “for something bigger and more universal than freedom for Jews alone: it was the liberation of all humankind they were after.” That’s also why, he believes, they were so disappointed when he chucked in his medical studies at university: “It seemed to them that it was the most worthwhile of all professions, devoted solely and selflessly to the benefit of others.”
So They Call You Pisher! is full of holes and absences – the homes and homelands of so many Jewish refugees; Rosen was 10 before Harold told him about an older brother who, aged just one, “coughed to death in your mother’s arms” – but it also brings to life countless epiphanies and emergences: Beyond the Fringe; Michael Foot on television; holidaying with French teenagers; Eric Hobsbawm drawing connections not just between political situations across European nations in the 19th century, but between politics and Beethoven; Joan Littlewood’s production of Oh, What a Lovely War!; and, when hearing Dylan, being agog at the way he had “invented a way of singing that sounded as if it was talking”.
Sound is at the centre of Rosen’s book. It rings with ribald Yiddish phrases, vividly remembered parental warnings (“Don’t eat the corned beef!” “Take the chicken!”), the triumphant choruses of folk and blues songs roared by Aldermaston protesters. It speaks eloquently about the impact of discovering the work of Gerard Manley Hopkins with its “jazzy, jerky feel” and “the free verse, ‘proletarian’ poems full of dialogue, proverbs and slang” of American poet Carl Sandburg. Best of all is a tribute to the Beatles – not their music so much as the wit and cross-fire repartee with which they peppered their interviews. I chuckled at his recollection of Maurice Bowra, classics don and warden of Wadham College, Oxford, trying to engage with students at high table: “Mmm, Ceylon, I was in Colombo. Walls. Very fine walls.”
Rosen has spent much of his life writing poetry that charms younger readers, and also advocating for inclusive, experimental approaches to mass education. The formative episodes of his youth include losing touch with a junior school friend who failed his 11-plus, and an exchange scheme with Winchester College, whose students he envies on account of the more adult and less formalist approaches to literature to which they’re exposed. He recalls studying Far from the Madding Crowd, about which a teacher asked, “Hardy. Mmmm. Optimist or pessimist?” Rosen himself is a bit of both – by turns tender and tetchy, antic and subdued, always keen to preserve disorder.
• So They Call You Pisher! A Memoir is published by Verso. To order a copy for £14.44 (RRP £16.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
!!!@@@$$$

She was drawn to bohemians, just as they were drawn to her. She liked the louche hours they kept, their smoking and drinking, their refusal to do the right thing. They, in turn, enjoyed the cachet of having a real-life princess on display. It didn’t really matter that she could be difficult. After all, being difficult was her party piece. If she happened to round off an evening with a display of her famous hauteur, then it gave them something to write about.
As for Princess Margaret, she never quite understood the stuff and nonsense to which she found herself drawn. Or perhaps she understood the stuff, but not the nonsense. “What is a bohemian? What does it mean?” she once asked a lady-in-waiting, in all innocence, shortly after her marriage to the fashionable photographer Antony Armstrong-Jones.
“Well, Ma’am,” came the reply, “with Tony it means he won’t always turn up to lunch when he says he will.”
Bohemians were, as she never quite appreciated, not entirely to be trusted: the moment you left the room they would start making their catty little remarks, and on returning home they would pen their waspish observations in their diaries, ready for publication a decade or two later.
Aged 45, the princess found herself in the lions’ den, placed between Gore Vidal and Tennessee Williams at Vidal’s 50th birthday party in 1975 at Mark’s Club in Mayfair. Among her fellow guests were Kenneth Tynan, Tom Driberg, Ryan O’Neal, Jonathan Miller and Claire Bloom; Lady Antonia Fraser brought along her new boyfriend, Harold Pinter. When Tynan got up to make a speech, he addressed them all as “comrades”, as the occasion coincided with the last day of the Labour party conference in Blackpool. He wasn’t being humorous.
Conversation between Williams and Princess Margaret got off to a sticky start. “I’m afraid we can’t talk to each other, Ma’am,” he said, “because we live in such different worlds”.
“What world do you live in?” asked the princess.
“Are you acquainted with the opera La Bohème, Ma’am? That’s my world.”
As it happened, Williams’s suspicion was spot on: a few years before, the princess had confided to Cecil Beaton that she “loathed” plays such as A Streetcar Named Desire. “I hate squalor! Tennessee Williams makes me feel ill!”
We know all this because Beaton jotted the conversation down in his diaries, and Williams jotted it down too, and so did Tynan, and so too did Tynan’s former wife Elaine Dundy and so did the birthday boy himself, Vidal. And, the moment her back was turned, one can imagine them imitating her squeaky, high-pitched voice. Someone who was an occasional guest at Tynan’s soirees told me that the assembled bohemians – actors, writers, artists, musicians – would kowtow to her royal highness while she was present and then make fun of her the moment she left, mimicking her general ignorance, her cackhanded opinions, her lofty put-downs, her absurd air of entitlement. The presence of the princess would endow a party with grandeur; her departure would be the signal for mimicry to commence.Beside these laughing sophisticates, the princess could sometimes appear an innocent.
And yet she thirsted for their company. Throughout her adult life, she leaned towards the artistic, the camp and the modish, even going so far as to marry Armstrong-Jones, a man at the centre of that particular Venn diagram. This means that she shows up without warning, popping her head around the door of every other memoir, biography and diary written in the second half of the 20th century. It is almost as though everyone above a certain level of fame met her, at one time or another.
She is there in the index of the Andy Warhol diaries, between Charles Manson and Imelda Marcos, and in the Kenneth Williams diaries, between Margate and Miriam Margolyes. One moment, she is attending a dinner party with George Melly, Edna O’Brien, Shirley Maclaine and a couple of Rolling Stones; the next, she is being feted in Hollywood, in pride of place on a table with Michael Caine, Steve McQueen, Neil Diamond, Gene Hackman, Jack Nicholson, Barbra Streisand, Clint Eastwood and Joni Mitchell.
❦
Where did it come from, her tendency towards the artistic? Margaret’s elder sister, their parents and grandparents regarded the arts as less to be enjoyed than endured. “Come over here, May, this’ll make you laugh,” George V called to his wife, Queen Mary, when he first set eyes on a Cézanne. Listening with her children to TS Eliot reading from The Waste Land at a wartime recital, the Queen Mother had to stifle her giggles. “Such a gloomy man ... we didn’t understand a word!” she explained some years later.
But, as she grew up, Princess Margaret was drawn to the arts as a moth to a flame, or, if not to a flame, then at least to a cushion. Early in their lives, her elder sister had cornered the market in dutifulness, surrounding herself with the tweedy and the trusty. It was only natural, then, for the more flighty Margaret, throneless and fancy-free, to go in search of company less starchy and more glamorous.
Cecil Beaton referred to her as 'the poor midgety brute', 'wealthy seaside landlady' and 'a little pocket monster'
After the young princess’s thwarted affair with the divorced Peter Townsend, 16 years her senior, the bohemians sensed that she might be one of their own, the free-thinking victim of a stiff, cold-hearted establishment. At the end of October 1955, when she announced (“mindful of the Church’s teaching that Christian marriage is indissoluble ...”) that she and the group captain were to part, the Daily Express carried an excitable “We, the undersigned” letter from a group of cutting-edge figures in the arts, among them Lindsay Anderson, Humphrey Lyttelton, Wolf Mankowitz, Ronald Searle and Tynan. They said they deplored the spectacle of “the Establishment in full cry”, going on to declare that these “encroachments on personal freedom” had “exposed the true extent of our national hypocrisy”.
She could inspire less high-minded thoughts, too, in other members of the arts fraternity. Receiving a prize from the young Princess Margaret in 1958, the 52-year-old John Betjeman was so overwhelmed by her curvaceous presence that tears came into his eyes, a reaction duly noted by his waspish friend, Maurice Bowra, the chairman of the judges, who lampooned it in a parodic verse:
“Green with lust and sick with shynessLet me lick your lacquered toes.Gosh, O gosh, your Royal HighnessPut your finger up my nose ...”
The dour novelist John Fowles, four years older than her, had long nursed a secret passion for her, noting in his diary in March 1951, when the princess was 20, that he found his girlfriend wanting, and “I have day-dreamed of seducing Princess Margaret”. A year later, he confessed that his first novel, The Collector, a creepy tale about a man who kidnaps and imprisons a beautiful young art student, was the fulfilment of a “lifelong fantasy of imprisoning a girl underground. I remember it used often to be famous people, Princess Margaret, various film stars. Of course, there was a main sexual motive ... a forcing of my personality as well as my penis on the girl concerned.”
Over in France, the most celebrated artist in the world was also nursing a tendresse for the young princess. It was in the early 1950s that Pablo Picasso first began to have erotic dreams about her. Occasionally, he would throw her elder sister into the mix. “If they knew what I had done in my dreams with your royal ladies, they would take me to the Tower of London and chop off my head!” Picasso confided to his friend Roland Penrose.
Having moved into a vast villa, La Californie, in 1955, Picasso had set his sights on the only young lady in the world he deemed worthy of it. There was, he said, just one possible bride for him: the 24-year-old Princess Margaret. Not only was she as royal as can be, but she was also his physical type: shorter than him (he was five foot four inches, so would tower over her) with beautiful skin and, he noted approvingly, good strong teeth. He made it clear to the British art dealer Douglas Cooper that this was more than a whimsy. In fact, he would not let the matter drop, growing more and more absorbed in plotting the right strategy. He would, he said, draw up a formal proposal on parchment, in French, Spanish or Latin, for Cooper to present to Her Majesty the Queen on a red velvet cushion. John Richardson, Picasso’s future biographer, was to stand by, dressed as a page or a herald, complete with trumpet. “If we didn’t have the right clothes, Picasso would make them for us: cardboard top hats – or would we prefer crowns?” recalled Richardson. “He called for stiff paper and hat elastic and proceeded to make a couple of prototypes.”
Picasso’s fascination with Margaret stayed close to fever pitch for a decade or more. When Penrose escorted her round the Picasso exhibition at the Tate Gallery in 1960, he told the princess how sad the artist would be to have missed her. “She smiled enchantingly and I think I glimpsed a blush spreading beneath her tan,” Penrose reported back to Picasso.
Despite the persistent efforts of Richardson, Cooper and Penrose, Picasso’s passion for Princess Margaret was never reciprocated, let alone consummated. In fact, quite the opposite. “Many years later, I told Princess Margaret the story of Picasso’s quest for her hand,” recalled Richardson. “Like her great-great grandmother Queen Victoria, she was not amused; she was outraged. She said she thought it the most disgusting thing she had ever heard.”
In one way or another, the princess’s encounters with artists never quite went according to plan, perhaps because, when push came to shove, each side would refuse to kowtow to the other. They all follow the same arc: the princess arrives late, delaying dinner to catch up with her punishing schedule of drinking and smoking. Once at the table, she grows more and more relaxed. By midnight, it dawns on the rest of them that she is in it for the long haul, which means that they will be too, since protocol dictates that no one can leave before she does. Then, just as everyone else is growing more chatty and carefree, the princess abruptly remounts her high horse and upbraids a hapless guest for overfamiliarity. “When you say my sister, I imagine you are referring to her majesty the Queen?”
❦
At such moments, it is as though she was released by alcohol from the constrictions of informality. After a succession of drinks, she was at last able to enter a stiffer, grander, more subservient world, a world in which people still knew their place: the world as it used to be. And then her rudeness knew no bounds. It was almost as though, early in life, she had contracted a peculiarly royal strain of Tourette syndrome, causing the sufferer to be seized by the unstoppable urge to say the first thing that came into her head, just so long as it was sufficiently unpleasant.
In 1970, the film producer Robert Evans flew to London to attend the Royal Command Performance of his film Love Story, in the presence of the Queen Mother. He was later to recall their brief encounter.
“All of us stood in a receiving line as Lord Somebody introduced us, one by one, to Her Majesty and her younger daughter. It was a hell of a thrill, abruptly ending when the lovely princess shook my hand.
“Tony saw Love Story in New York. Hated it.”
“Fuck you too,” I said to myself, smiling back.
The rebuke became her calling card, like Frank Ifield’s yodel or Tommy Cooper’s fez. An avid follower of the arts, she seemed to take delight in expressing a damning verdict after each show, often to those involved in it. Introduced to the TV producer Dennis Main Wilson, she asked him what he did. He told her he produced “a little show called Till Death Us Do Part”, to which she replied, “Isn’t that that frightfully dreary thing in the East End?” In 1990, Richard Eyre, the artistic director of the National Theatre, was obliged to stand in the foyer to await her arrival for a preview of Stephen Sondheim’s Sunday in the Park with George. “As she comes in she announces to me quite loudly that she can’t STAND Sondheim. She demonstrates this quite conspicuously throughout the evening.”
Two years later, she attended a preview of Rodgers and Hammerstein’s Carousel. After meeting the cast, she was escorted to the door by Eyre, who made a note of their brief conversation:
ME: I’m glad you enjoyed the show.
SHE: I didn’t. I can’t bear the piece.
Even when given her own chance to perform, she did so very off-handedly. Playing herself at the Borsetshire Fashion Show on The Archers in 1984, she sounded curiously flat and uninvolved, almost as though she couldn’t get to grips with her own character. After the first run-through, the producer, William Smethurst said: “That’s very good, Ma’am, but do you think you could sound as if you were enjoying yourself a little more?”
“Well, I wouldn’t be, would I?” replied the princess.
❦
Of course, the artists and writers had the last laugh: they always do. One or two stood up to her at the time. Francis Bacon stood at the back and heckled as she was singing a selection of cabaret songs. Finding himself at an adjacent table to where Princess Margaret and Lord Snowdon were dining with Bryan Forbes, Nanette Newman and Peter Sellers, a drunken Dudley Moore staggered over to the princess, bowed low and, with a demonic gleam in his eye, slurred, “Good evening, your royal highness. I suppose a blow job is out of the question?” At a reception in the Dorchester Hotel after the royal premiere of A Hard Day’s Night, the 21-year-old George Harrison, feeling peckish, said the words that so many people, before and after, dreamed of saying: “Your highness, we really are hungry and we can’t eat until you two go.”
“I see,” said the princess obediently. “Well, in that case, we’d better run.”
But most waited until she was safely out of sight, or better still dead, before taking their revenge. The most spiteful were those who had once been most sycophantic. Cecil Beaton refers to her in his diaries as, successively “the poor midgety brute”, “like a wealthy seaside landlady” and “a little pocket monster”. Sir Roy Strong, whom she had welcomed to so many dinner parties over the course of three decades, calls her “tiresome, spoilt, idle and irritating” in his diaries. Leaving her service of remembrance at Westminster Abbey, he reflects that “she was such a capricious, arrogant and thoughtless woman”.
Oddly enough, it was the most caustic of commentators, Gore Vidal, who remained most loyal, even though that loyalty was not always reciprocated. “The trouble with Gore,” she once observed, “is that he wants my sister’s job.” Four years after her death, Vidal declared that Princess Margaret had been “far too intelligent for her station in life”, adding that “she often had a bad press, the usual fate of wits in a literal society”. He claimed that she had once told him the reason for her unpopularity. “It was inevitable; when there are two sisters and one is the Queen who must be the source of honour and all that is good, the other must be the focus of the most creative malice, the evil sister.”
The language sounds more like his, but the sentiment was undoubtedly hers. Margaret thought the world cruel for seeing her as the negative version of her sister, yet it was also how she came to define herself.
In middle age, hurt by life, she retreated into camp, becoming a nightclub burlesque of her sister. But she was never camp in the same way that the Queen Mother was camp. Her camp was not arch or sentimental. It did not strive to be inclusive, or merry, or to render the world as a romp. She didn’t twinkle or sparkle. She would never say “Such fun” as though she meant it; she would take pains to inject the phrase with a dash of generalised irony. Nor was she camp in the service of something beyond herself. She had no wish to draw others in, and refused to offer them the illusion, however fleeting, of parity. Being thought “real” or “down to earth” is not what she wanted.
She was of royalty, yet divorced from it; royalty set at an oblique angle, royalty through the looking glass, royalty as pastiche. At a fancy-dress party on Mustique, she wore a Valkyrie outfit, hired for her by Colin Tennant from a Los Angeles costumier, and in it she mimed an aria from the Ring Cycle. For her 50th birthday, the Tennants gave her a gold-embroidered dress from India. “I’ve always LONGED to have a dress like that,” she said. “It’s what a REAL princess would wear.” She was royalty as Hokey-Cokey, one-foot-in, one-foot-out; royalty as real yet unreal; royalty as real as you want it to be, as the mood takes you.
She was cabaret camp, Ma’am Ca’amp: she was Noël Coward, cigarette holders, blusher, Jean Cocteau, winking, sighing, dark glasses, Bet Lynch, charades, Watteau, colourful cocktails at midday, ballet, silk, hoity-toity, dismissive overstatement,, arriving late, entering with a flourish, exiting with a flounce, pausing for effect, making a scene.
Ma’am Ca’amp is having a drink in a cut-glass tumbler delivered to you in the swimming pool and then ordering your hostess to bring the tumbler into the pool, even though she is fully clothed. Ma’am Ca’amp has her hosts’ compliance in these antics. Ma’am Camp enjoys inverting expectations: to those expecting grace, it presents hauteur; to those wanting empathy, it delivers distance. To those in need of tradition, it offers modernity. To those in need of modernity, it offers tradition.
It is languid, bored, world-weary, detached, bored, fidgety, demanding, entitled, disgruntled, bored. It carries the seeds of its own sadness and scatters them around like confetti. It is disappointment hiding behind the shield of hauteur, keeping pity at bay.
It is pantomime as tragedy, and tragedy as pantomime. It is Cinderella in reverse. It is hope dashed, happiness mislaid, life mishandled. Nothing is as thrilling as they said it would be: no one is as amusing, as clever, as attractive or as interesting. The sun never shines as bright as it used to, and even the fiercest thunderstorm lacks any real sense of drama or pizzazz. When Cinderella dies, her little glass slipper is put up for auction, a memento of days of hope and innocence. The catalogue entry reads, “Only worn once”.
• Ma’am Darling: 99 Glimpses of Princess Margaret is published by 4th Estate. To order a copy for £14.44 (RRP £16.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
!!!@@@$$$

It is not often that Shakespeare and Marlowe go head to head: you have to go back 50 years to find an imaginative Stratford pairing of The Merchant of Venice and The Jew of Malta. But, as part of its Rome season, the RSC brings us Coriolanus (1608) and Dido, Queen of Carthage (1586) on the same day. If Shakespeare’s is the greater play, it is the Marlowe production that for me generated greater excitement.
Angus Jackson kicked off Stratford’s staging of Shakespeare’s Roman plays with an excellent Julius Caesar unfashionably staged in togas. He now concludes it with a decent, if unsurprising, Coriolanus played in modern dress. It starts brightly with a fork-lift truck placing stacks of grain behind an iron grille: a reminder that the play shows famished citizens seeking redress for their grievances. Shakespeare’s play also raises timeless questions about the danger posed to any state by an out-of-touch ruling class and a discontented populace. But Jackson’s production has little of the urgency of the brilliant Ralph Fiennes movie (2012), shot in Serbia and reeking of events in the former Yugoslavia.
Jackson’s strength lies in exploring nuanced relationships. Sope Dirisu, who memorably played Cassius Clay in the Donmar’s One Night in Miami, brings to Coriolanus a strong presence and martial vigour but his verse-speaking lacks suppleness and irony. If he is never quite the mythical “lonely dragon” of Shakespeare’s text, he is most revealing in his contact with other people. His dependence on Volumnia is positively Oedipal and Haydn Gwynne, in the best performance of the evening, beautifully shows her transition from a silky Roman matriarch into a gaunt, hollow-eyed figure pleading with her son to abandon his attack on his native city.
The homoeroticism of the relationship between Coriolanus and Aufidius is also graphically shown, with James Corrigan as the Volscian leader leaping into his old opponent’s arms and grieving over his dead body like a stricken lover. Paul Jesson as Menenius conveys the old patrician’s quasi-paternal worship of the boy-hero and, even if the casting of the popular tribunes as women seems like a token gesture to gender equality, the staging is clear and well ordered. But, while Jackson’s production is psychologically probing, it seems politically neutral. Having started by showing the legitimate anger of the people, it leaves the question of where ultimate power should lie hanging in the air.
If Coriolanus is regularly revived, one of the joys of Dido, Queen of Carthage lies in discovering a virtually unknown play. Shakespeare’s Globe staged a dreadful production in 2003 which treated it as a playground romp. In fact, it is an extraordinary mix of sombre tragedy and ironic comedy in which Marlowe dramatises a classical legend familiar from Virgil: the Carthaginian queen offers a home to the Trojan refugee Aeneas, falls in love with him, and is then abandoned as he pursues his divinely appointed mission to found Rome.
Kimberley Sykes directs it with a fluidity that perfectly balances the pictorial and the verbal. Her production, in Ti Green’s design, is full of strong images: the first glimpse of a stranded Aeneas seen dangling upside down; the closing sight of Dido writhing in suicidal despair. While Shakespeare may have parodied inflated Marlovian rhetoric in the Player King’s speech in Hamlet, the text is also full of unforgettable lines.
Aeneas, describing Troy’s fall, talks of “Young infants swimming in their parents’ blood” and says: “We saw Cassandra sprawling in the streets.” Meanwhile Dido, foreshadowing Dr Faustus, says of Aeneas: “He’ll make me immortal with a kiss.” Edith Hall makes a fine point in the programme when she notes that Marlowe does not call his play Dido and Aeneas but gives the queen the title. Chipo Chung plays her with a volatility and sense of contradiction that anticipates Shakespeare’s Cleopatra. Chung brings out all of Dido’s rhapsodic fervour for Aeneas but is at her best in the great speech where she is torn between sabotaging his ships to prevent his departure and expressing her undying love. Sandy Grierson similarly catches the conflict in Aeneas between settling in seductive Carthage and fulfilling his imperial destiny.
This may be early Marlowe that faithfully follows its source, but Sykes’s production shows there is wit in the storytelling: Ben Goffe’s mischievous Cupid, instructed to ensnare Dido, pursues her with a hypodermic needle like a madcap doctor, and Nicholas Day’s Jupiter eyes the boyish Ganymede with the indecent enthusiasm of an Olympian lech.
In any juxtaposition of Shakespeare and Marlowe, the former will always be the winner, but this production makes a strong case for the youthful classicist from Canterbury.
!!!@@@$$$

Workers at the Ritzy cinema in Brixton, south London, will go on strike again on Saturday as a dispute over pay enters its second year.
Members of the Bectu union will walk out for 24 hours. The row has since spread to several other Picturehouse cinemas in London and Brighton.
The workers want higher wages, sick pay and the reinstatement of several union representatives who were sacked this year after industrial action.
Sophie Lowe, one of the striking Ritzy workers, said: “One year on from the start of this dispute, we are planning a substantial escalation in the campaign.”
There will be nine strikes during the British Film Institute’s London film festival next month. The action will include a demonstration at Leicester Square on 4 October – the first day of the festival – involving staff from the Crouch End, Hackney and East Dulwich Picturehouses, as well as Picturehouse Central and the Ritzy.
During the festival, staff at the Hackney and Central cinemas will strike from 5pm on 6-8 October and from 11-15 October.
The BFI said it supported the Picturehouse workers’ call for payment of the London living wage, which it paid its own employees.
“The BFI is disappointed that the London Film Festival has become associated with this industrial action. The current plan is that LFF screenings will go ahead as published at both Picturehouse Central and Hackney Picturehouse.”
The campaign has won the support of high-profile figures including actor Sir Ian McKellen and director Ken Loach. They are among 25 actors and screenwriters who have urged the public to boycott Picturehouse cinemas and their parent company, Cineworld.
Loach, a Bectu member, said: “Picturehouse is owned by Cineworld, which is a big multinational corporation. They make fortunes. The idea that they pay starvation wages because they can get people who are desperate for work is absolutely shocking. Victory to the Picturehouse striker, no doubt.”
The struggle of Picturehouse staff has also garnered political support with the shadow chancellor, John McDonnell, and other Labour MPs writing a letter in the Guardian expressing concern over treatment of trade unionists.
“Any suspensions or sackings intended to intimidate trade union members would be a matter of deep concern for the whole labour movement. No trade unionist or Labour party member can tolerate the deliberate intimidation of trade union activists for pursuing their legitimate business,” they wrote.
Picturehouse has created the Picturehouse Staff Forum, described as a “fake union” by Bectu members. They claim it has been set up by Picturehouse specifically to block Bectu from being able to negotiate on behalf of its members at other cinemas.
A Picturehouse statement said: “Paying our staff a fair wage is hugely important to us. Staff at the Ritzy are paid £9.10 [an hour] – equivalent to £9.70 when working an eight-hour shift as we choose to pay for breaks.
“We also offer statutory sick pay, maternity/paternity pay and 28 days’ paid holiday among other competitive benefits. This makes Picturehouse Cinemas one of the highest-paying employers in the cinema industry.”
The London living wage is £9.75 an hour – 65p more than what Picturehouse staff are paid. This is calculated by the Living Wage Foundation and has led other cinema chains such as Curzon to agree to pay their staff this rate in 2014 amid a similar dispute.
Cineworld reported a pre-tax profit of £98.2m for 2016 – slightly lower than the previous 12 months.
Naomi Taylor, a Bectu official, told the Guardian: “Cineworld owns Picturehouse and Cineworld’s chief executive earned £2.5m just last year. Picturehouse can afford to pay their staff a living wage – they just choose not to.”
About 70% of Cineworld’s UK front-of-house staff, including 700 at Picturehouse are on zero-hours contracts without benefits such as parental leave or sick pay.
!!!@@@$$$

Two cult heroes of youth from decades past make a reappearance this week. Jim MacLaine was the hero of Ray Connolly’s 1973 movie That’ll Be the Day, about a young man turning his back on a university education at the turn of the 60s in order to try his hand in a rock’n’roll band. MacLaine is back in a new dramatisation (23 September, 2.30pm, Radio 4). Meanwhile, the original star of that film, David Essex, is the guest on Simon Mayo (27 September, 5pm, Radio 2) as he prepares to go on tour with Suzi Quatro, Hot Chocolate and the Osmonds. The Book at Bedtime is The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole Aged 13¾ (Weekdays until 6 October, 10.45pm, Radio 4) read by Harry McEntire. Here, it is still 1981 and Adrian vows to start the new year by putting his records back in their sleeves.
National Poetry Day is this Thursday. In The Essay (Weekdays, 10.45pm, Radio 3) Don Paterson reflects on five poems he wishes he’d written, beginning with Seamus Heaney at the beginning of the week and finishing with Robert Frost on Friday. That night, Ian McMillan presents The Verb (29 September, 10pm, Radio 3) live from Hull with a look at poetry inspired by the city. He talks to poet and editor Rachael Allen about the university’s famous librarian Philip Larkin. Earlier the same day, John Cooper Clarke guests on Radcliffe and Maconie (29 September, 1pm, 6 Music) to talk about Hull’s poetry festival Contains Strong Language, which began the day before.
Ken Bruce inaugurates the week of Radio 2’s 50th anniversary with a special Friday Night Is Music Night (29 September, 8pm, Radio 2) with the BBC Concert Orchestra from the Hackney Empire. This memory lane meanders past much-loved classics such as Open House, The News Huddlines and Sing Something Simple. The star turn is Albert Hammond, performing a selection of classic Radio 2 hits.
Constitutional is an unashamedly educational podcast from the Washington Post. Sub-titled “a podcast about the story of America” it’s presented by Lillian Cunningham who engages scholars to explain the fascinating story of how a nation is designed from scratch. If you wish to get closer to understanding such knotty issues as states’ rights and Jim Crow – issues that are as real and present as tomorrow’s headlines – this a good place to start.
Radio 3 shows such as Between the Ears also make the kind of podcasts that draw the most from your noise-cancelling headphones. The programme commissions ideas that make adventurous use of sound. With the right noise cancellation you can travel to the source of Yorkshire’s river Don to hear about the revived worship of its goddess Danu or hear a sound engineer remove the hiss and adjust the pitch of old wax cylinder recordings of Joseph Taylor, who first sang Brigg Fair for Percy Grainger in 1905. It’s a welcome corrective to the usual babble.
!!!@@@$$$

Does the Tardis ever get stuck in traffic? The space-time highway suddenly seems more congested, with our TV schedules clogged up with time-travelling shows – from the period drama-with-a-twist Outlander to DC’s superheroes in Legends of Tomorrow, and action-adventure shows such as Timeless. Not all of them have the longevity of Time Lords. Making History, in which a bungling time traveller’s love life threatens to disrupt the past as we know it, has disappeared into a black hole after just one series. And time has also been called on Time After Time – a series that coupled sci-fi pioneer HG Wells and Jack the Ripper, in modern-day Manhattan. Frequency – where the time machine was an amateur radio that allowed a daughter to communicate with her dead father – was also cut short.
Yet none of this has put off the creators of a new UK sitcom, Timewasters, from adding their own spin on the time-travelling trope. In the ITV2 series a south London jazz quartet find themselves stranded in the 1920s after getting into a lift in a rundown block of flats – a set-up that writer Daniel Lawrence Taylor says originally inspired the cheeky title Black to the Future, before Universal ruled it out.
So what is behind the enduring appeal of leaping through the ages – and why is it suddenly surging in popularity? Lorna Jowett, the author of Time on TV and reader of television studies at the University of Northampton, says our fascination lies in our own mortality coupled with our obsession “with youth and putting off the passing of time”. But the pace of our time-pressed modern life might play a part in an increasing enthusiasm for the genre. “Often it is mundane things that appeal to people about time travel – you probably wouldn’t [go back in time to] try and kill Hitler; you would stop yourself being late.”
The recent spawning of shows, she suspects, reflects our current anxieties about the state of the world. “Some of the more modern ones are about people coming back from the future to try and fix things,” which, she says, could be linked to the fact “the global political scene feels a little apocalyptic” – sending us scurrying towards what we assume was a simpler time.
This would explain why time-travel programmes, which once focused on future societies, today seem to heavily focus on the past – such as Outlander. “The nostalgic trend gives people something to fondly reminisce about,” Jowett points out. “It’s a period drama by another name. The conservative underpinning is the fact that people feel their comfortable lives are being threatened by changes.” Yet, she says, time-travel shows can also interrogate or subvert such assumptions. Life on Mars and Ashes to Ashes, where police officers go back in time a few decades “unpick” this view of the past “suggesting that if we went back to the 1980s we would remember how bad it was”.
Timewasters, too, plays with our preconceived ideas of the 1920s, created in TV shows such as Downton Abbey or House of Elliot, one character wistfully suggesting: “People like us never get to time travel – it’s what white people do, like skiing or brunch,” before his friend offers a reason why. “Any time before the mid-80s wasn’t good for black people.”
I meet the cast on their last day of filming in a beautiful Georgian house in Liverpool complete with 1920s furniture. In one scene, Nick, the quartet’s trumpet player (played by Taylor), is leaving his friends to live with a girl he has just met. Impeccably dressed in a roaring 20s-style three-piece suit, his friend and fellow musician Lauren, played by Adelayo Adedayo, is ranting at him. “Maybe you make her breakfast, or lie about keeping in touch on Facebook,” she fumes. “But who proposes to a one-night stand?”
Saxophonist Jason (Kadiff Kirwan) is taking a more romantic view. “She gave you her heart despite the social stigma of interracial relationships in this age of ignorance,” he sighs. The scene neatly ties up the show’s promise to extract the silliest comedy from the collision of the past and future cultures, and the ethnicity of its characters at a time when slavery was still in living memory. Jowett says this is another reason why the genre has been so durable and can easily be slotted into a sitcom setting. “All time-travel shows involve a culture and ideology clash – because we have different ideas now,” while “often the time-travel device throws people together in close quarters.”
The Timewasters premise also offers a sly dig at the lack of diversity in period dramas such as Downton Abbey – whose first recurring black character was a US jazz musician played by Gary Carr. Samson Kayo, who plays singer Horace, jokes that playing in a period drama is “like playing a Russian as a black man. It’s one of those things you never see happening.” Kirwan points out that this reflects a lack of awareness of the history of BAME (black, Asian, minority and ethnic) people in the UK. “Lots of the period dramas give off the impression that black people weren’t invented yet or something,” he says. “There’s never a nod to black culture or the existence of black people in Britain. Which is heartbreaking because so many different ethnicities were responsible for building the British empire.”
But Taylor says this was not exactly intentional. “At the time I was learning how to play the trumpet and I just thought it would be funny to write about a jazz band. Then I thought it would be cool to set it in a different time period – the 1920s – but there still wasn’t enough going on and I thought, what if they went back in time?”
Researching the period, he says, naturally led to jokes about attitudes to race. “In the 1920s there was racism, but also negrophilia [a craze for black culture, when to collect African art, to listen to black music and to dance with black people was a sign of being modern and fashionable]. In Timewasters there are people chucking things at the quartet in the street, while others want a black jazz band in their house or a black lover – it’s ripe for comedy.”
Film studies professor and author of Time Travel in Popular Media, Matthew Jones isn’t surprised that identity politics and nostalgia are becoming recurrent themes in recent time-travel shows. “We are clearly in a moment of anxiety about identity politics, and I think there is something about the nostalgia for a simpler past and the problems of what that means in identity terms. The past being hankered for is [essentially] a patriarchal, white past, so playing out the problematisation of what that means comes up time and time again.”
Daniel Lawrence Taylor says writing about the past certainly helped him to “reflect on where we are now – in terms of racism and prejudice. They are still here and still run deep but someone described [racism today] as more ‘sophisticated’ because it is not thrown at you in the street, but it might be embedded in the way you work, in education and so on.”
The distance of time also allowed him to discuss difficult issues such as “negrophilia or cultural appropriation”, which if he had included in a modern context might have got a different reception. “It’s like the way people feel about America – if there is police brutality or #OscarsSoWhite, Brits find it easier to talk about it or be outraged about than when things happen here. Having it set in the 1920s means there is some distance. It was quite a lovely thing to be able to put things that we find uncomfortable talking about into comedy. Because that’s often where we talk about things we find uncomfortable.”
Yet Taylor says jokes are prioritised above political and period details. “It is foremost a comedy and you need to be laughing – anything else is a bonus. We changed storylines that were too close to the bone. The minute you start preaching to people, they turn off.” And while he understands the risk of launching another time machine in a crowded field – “the tricky thing about high-concept shows is they are prone to dying a horrible death” – he thinks it is one worth taking. “When one works, it is amazing.”
Timewasters starts on Monday 9 October on ITV2
!!!@@@$$$

The grand final of Celebs Go Dating (Weekdays, 10pm, E4), in which people off the telly are paired with “civilians” in the hope of finding romance, is almost upon us. In a few days, our glamorous singletons’ needy pronouncements (“I don’t want to be the last gay man left on the shelf”) and suave seduction techniques (“You’ve got nice boobs”) will be private once more. Truly, a nation weeps.
Viewers watching for the first time imagining, at the very least, someone from EastEnders making small talk over a steak dinner, or a former Spice Girl hoping for some zig-a-zig-ah, might have found themselves a bit confused. Even dedicated readers of OK! magazine would have struggled to separate the celebs from the normals here. We are, surely, nearing the final spin of this endlessly rinsed format, based on the assumption that nobodies become somebodies as soon as “celebrity” is affixed to the title.
Among the lonely hearts are Towie’s Bobby Norris (orange-hued realitybot); Towie’s James “Arg” Argent (self-anointed king of the bantz); Made in Chelsea’s Georgia “Toff” Toffolo (never been north of Notting Hill), Calum Best (oily offspring of George), Charlotte Dawson (gobshite spawn of Les) and Frankie Cocozza (berk). A-listers they are not, but who could begrudge these bright young scions of the reality age a stab at romance? When I say bright, I naturally mean in the visual sense. Not content with spray-tans that, to the untrained eye, look like third degree burns, our protagonists’ smiles reveal hours spent in the chairs of Harley Street cosmetic dentists, reality TV’s answer to Rada.
I want a guy to sweep me off my bunions and feed me chips and gravy for the rest of my life
With each episode, the celebs visit “dating experts” Eden Blackman and Nadia Essex who mull over their romantic performance and help them find a match. At intervals they are dispatched to a bar teeming with dolled-up youngsters similarly keen to climb the reality ladder and are required to ask someone out. We subsequently watch them on their dates as they sit, stupefied by tequila, regret sweeping across their faces. Some fare better than others. While Calum batters his dates with compliments and indulges in what he calls “eye-fucking”, “handsy” foghorn Charlotte instructs her suitors to drop their trousers so she can inspect their bums. This might be a bit rum were it not for the fact that Charlotte isn’t averse to flashing a bit of flesh herself, having long given up the fight to keep her breasts safely stowed in her clothing. “I want a guy to sweep me off my bunions and feed me chips and gravy for the rest of my life,” she announces, fabulously. Charlotte doesn’t need a date, she needs a stage.
For the most part, the celebs, high on shots and all-you-can-eat curry, appear to be having the time of their lives. Eden, however, looks like a man defeated, quietly wondering how he came to be advising hard-of-thinking TV types on not sounding as if they’re chewing the cud while kissing. Meanwhile, Nadia’s pass-agg hair-twiddling suggests certain death for candidates who don’t heed her advice. “Two words,” she barks at Arg, last seen trying to reel a thread of saliva back into his mouth during dinner, “DON’T DRIBBLE.” The participants may not come away with future spouses, but they’ll at least have picked up some table manners. Given the generally low bar set here, I’d call that a triumph.
!!!@@@$$$

A hugely successful series is a hard act to follow. Those of us who loved Cressida Cowell’s brilliant How to Train Your Dragon books about Hiccup, his dragon Toothless and the Viking world they live in might have felt a little concerned when they came to an end in 2015. What would she do next?
I am pleased to report that The Wizards of Once – the first book in a new middle grade series – is terrific. It introduces us to a new fantasy world, though its roots again lie deep in a familiar mulch of history and legend. Not the Norse myths this time, but a fantasia of ancient Britain, a land of dark, mysterious forests and powerful magic.
The backstory is very simple, involving three groups of beings of both sexes, the witches (magical but evil), the wizards (magical but good) and the warriors (not magical at all). The warriors were invaders from beyond the sea, took a strong dislike to the witches, and wiped them out – or so they thought. And as they believed all magic was bad, they soon set about trying to get rid of the wizards as well.
Things are at a stalemate when the story opens. The warriors are still determined to destroy the wizards and their magic, and the wizards are equally determined to fight back. Two young characters are plunged into this toxic mix: a wizard boy called Xar, who has as yet no magic powers, and a warrior girl called Wish, who owns a banned magical object she must keep hidden at all costs.
There are rumours that some witches still survive, and Xar sets out to capture one as part of a campaign to prove himself to his disapproving father, the scary Encanzo the Enchanter. Wish has parent problems too. Her mum, Sychorax, is queen of the warrior tribe: tall, icy and deeply disappointed in her daughter. Xar and Wish meet and find themselves in an adventure that quickly spirals out of control.
What follows is a rollercoaster of suspense and surprise as they get themselves in and out of trouble. They are very different but complement each other perfectly – Xar boastful and impetuous, but with a heart of gold, Wish more thoughtful and serious, and possessed of a strong moral sense. Both are bold, brave, believable young characters children will identify with.
The book has all the familiar Cowell trademarks. The story never flags, even at moments of calm and reflection, and the writing has humour, grit and depth. She provides her own illustrations, and their scratchy style and scribbled annotations strike the right note. It all adds up to a beautifully designed hardback volume.
Several characters have names adapted or taken from The Tempest – as well as Sychorax, there’s a sprite called Ariel and a bird called Caliburn (left) – so I sense a late-Shakespearean theme of magical reconciliation being shaped for the rest of the series. But it’s clear that Xar and Wish have unwittingly unleashed real evil, so there will be plenty more alarums and excursions to come.
• Tony Bradman’s most recent book is Attack of the Vikings (Bloomsbury Education). Wizards of Once by Cressida Cowell (Hodder Children’s Books, £12.99). To order a copy for £11.04, go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.
!!!@@@$$$

Frances Hardinge’s last novel, The Lie Tree, won the overall Costa book award in 2015; the only other children’s book to have done so is Philip Pullman’s The Amber Spyglass, in 2001. Hardinge is at the forefront of children’s fiction, with a rich, unusual taste for language, an eye for the striking and apt image and stories that reveal a staunch defence of the weak and the oppressed. What is more, she combines a subtle, intellectual approach with plots that swoop and soar.
Her darkly splendid new book is a worthy follow-up to The Lie Tree, set just before the start of the English civil war. Hardinge has always been interested in splits and doubles; in how a character, apparently good, can be only a sliver away from being bad; in how perceptions and opinions shift according to perspective and situation. Her heroine in Cuckoo Song was a fairy changeling, unaware that she had been created and placed into the family that she thought hers; Faith in The Lie Tree must fight against the strictures placed on women in the 19th century, while unpicking a web of falsehoods around her scientist father.
Makepeace, the protagonist of this new book, also faces a mystery around her birth, and is surrounded by a similar web of lies. All these girls are born into power structures that appear to constrict; all learn that things can be made more malleable.
The central themes of A Skinful of Shadows are inheritance and power, and how these link to governance both literal and psychological. An aristocratic family, the Fellmottes, possess an unusual ability. They can catch ghosts and absorb them into their own minds. Makepeace, being a bastard daughter, is tracked down by the family, who wish to protect their property and bloodline at all costs. And yet, as Makepeace discovers, her mother fled from them, and, as her last wish, begs her to flee too.
Hardinge is adept and vivid in creating a sense of terrifying, apparently permanent grandeur: the Fellmotte house, Grizehayes, is ancient, implacable and vast; Lady April, one of the family, treads over the outstretched palms of an underling rather than get her dress wet. It is not hard to see a critique of aristocracy: should some families, here quite literally in thrall to their ancestors through their ghosts, be any more suited to power than others? The damage done as a result is incalculable.
Hardinge gives the opposing Puritans a similar kind of treatment, with their inconsistencies and excesses laid bare, and it is to her great credit that she delineates the attractions and horrors of both sides, symbolised in the characters of James, a bastard tempted by nobility, and Symond, the noble heir who seems to shift allegiance. Makepeace, travelling from one camp to the other, reads news sheets of the same battles from both sides, each proclaiming loudly that they, and only they, are right. The problem of echo chambers and fake news is an old one. The most appealing characters here are the in-between ones: the spies, roustabouts and uncoverers of nuggets of information, those who risk their lives not in the service of ideology, but in the service of life itself.
Thanks to large amounts of gold, the Fellmotte family have managed to persuade Charles I not to expose their supernatural dealings. Makepeace must navigate these tricky territories, while staying true to her brother James and managing the increasing number of ghosts that pop into her head (including a wonderfully sniffy doctor, a reformed Puritan and another, more mysterious being). What gives the book its strength is the essential fairytale backbone of a girl going out into the world to achieve, and to reach a higher level of existence.
Perhaps in response to the Puritan elements in the story, Hardinge’s language in this novel is less elaborate than it has been, resulting in a cleaner, sharper diction. There are many wonderful moments that have the unmistakable Hardinge tang. Makepeace accidentally absorbs the ghost of a bear, symbolising both the uncontrollable id that she must subdue and the violence threatening to tear apart the country in “surprising zigzags”. She develops a deep rapport with her beastly fellow traveller, but often it’s “like reasoning with a thundercloud”.
The pull of the story is towards subversion, and Makepeace ends by reappropriating her inherited gifts, and using them not to provide a vessel for antiquated mores, but to succour the weak and the dispossessed. This is a wonderful, resonant narrative whose subtlety and insight will challenge, entertain and enchant.
Philip Womack’s latest book is The Double Axe (Alma).
• A Skinful of Shadows is published by Macmillan. To order a copy for £11.04 (RRP £12.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
!!!@@@$$$

Born in London, Kiefer Sutherland, 50, is the son of actors Shirley Douglas and Donald Sutherland. In the 80s and 90s, he starred in films including Stand By Me and The Lost Boys, Flatliners and A Few Good Men. From 2001, he played Jack Bauer in the television series 24. His latest Netflix series, Designated Survivor, is out on DVD next week. He is also a country singer-songwriter, and this year he made his Glastonbury debut. He is twice divorced and has a daughter, the actor Sarah Sutherland.
When were you happiest? I consider myself quite a happy person. One of the most exciting times was when Sarah was born.
What is your earliest memory?Swimming with my mum and dad.
What was your most embarrassing moment?I wore a pair of my brother’s track pants to school when I was in third grade, because I thought they looked so cool on him. He was seven years older, so they looked ridiculous.
Property aside, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought? Aside from a car, it would be a guitar. I used to have almost 100, but now I am down to 22.
What is your most treasured possession?An acoustic guitar I have with me all the time: it’s a 1959 Gibson Western.
What makes you unhappy?Not being able to solve a problem frustrates me the most.
Who would play you in the film of your life?I wouldn’t wish that on anyone.
What is your most unappealing habit?Smoking.
If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose?I would focus on trying to keep things that are becoming extinct alive.
What do you most dislike about your appearance?The list is long: given the fact that my dad is 6ft 4in and all my brothers are 6ft 4in-plus, I wish I was taller.
What is your favourite smell?Nature in Canada, where I’m from. I have always loved the lakes in the north and the smell of the woods.
What is your favourite word?As a Canadian, it would be “Sorry”.
What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you?“I hate you.” It was said at school by someone who didn’t like me.
What is your guiltiest pleasure?Watching Modern Family.
What do you owe your parents?I guess everything. I don’t think either of them wanted me to go into entertainment, but all the choices I made were directly from things I had watched them do, so they gave me a great deal of confidence.
To whom would you most like to say sorry and why?There have been moments when I’d want to say sorry to both my parents for some of the stuff I’ve done.
What does love feel like?The easiest thing for me to say would be comfort and at ease.
What was the best kiss of your life?I don’t think I’ve had it yet – I’m hoping!
Have you ever said ‘I love you’ and not meant it?No.
What is the worst job you’ve done?I’ve been lucky enough to act for 35 years. The only other job I had was as a cook at a drive-in restaurant, and I enjoyed that as well.
What has been your biggest disappointment?Some of my choices were mistakes, so I’d have to say myself.
If you could edit your past, what would you change?I would take things a little slower.
!!!@@@$$$

Three decades after it won the Whitbread prize, Ian McEwan’s The Child in Time has become a TV film. It will be screened this weekend in the coveted Sunday 9pm drama slot on BBC1, with Benedict Cumberbatch playing a children’s writer whose daughter vanishes on a shopping trip.
This transmission launches an unofficial festival of McEwan adaptations: Dominic Cooke’s On Chesil Beach (in which I play a minor role) will be shown at the London film festival next month before a general release next year, soon followed by Richard Eyre’s movie of The Children Act.
The rush of productions reflects the fact that McEwan has consistently used genre templates. He has adopted for more discursive or subversive purposes the conventions of the spy thriller (The Innocent, Sweet Tooth), the crime novel (The Cement Garden, The Comfort of Strangers, Enduring Love, Saturday, Amsterdam), romance (Atonement, On Chesil Beach) and, in The Children Act, the sort of domestic ethical dilemma that is the signature of more obviously populist novelists such as Joanna Trollope and Jodi Picoult.
McEwan has also been more prolific as a writer of screenplays than any other Booker prize winner apart from Ruth Prawer Jhabvala, who, in addition to taking the literary prize in 1975 for Heat and Dust, won two Oscars for her work with Ismail Merchant and James Ivory.
As a young writer of scandalous short stories, McEwan was rapidly talent-scouted by TV drama departments. Jack Flea’s Birthday Celebration, an oedipal comedy about a young man’s relationships, was shown on BBC2 in April 1976. He then wrote a BBC1 Play for Today, The Imitation Game (1980), directed by Richard Eyre; this script about a woman involved in the second world war code-breaking at Bletchley Park was at least the equal of the unrelated 2014 movie of the same name in which Cumberbatch played Alan Turing. Eyre and McEwan then made The Ploughman’s Lunch (1983) for Channel 4, with Jonathan Pryce memorable as a cynically ambitious journalist in the Thatcher era.
However, despite this busy visual CV, the enthusiastic advance word about The Child in Time, On Chesil Beach and The Children Act – following preview or festival screenings – represents a recovery of the screen’s confidence in McEwan and his in it. Until this accidental trilogy of films, the writer’s relationship with TV and cinema has been mixed, even by the unhappy standards of collisions between literature and film. Earlier in his career, McEwan suffered the two worst results a screenwriter can endure: banning and studio interference.
The writer’s own adaptation of his short story “Solid Geometry” was cancelled by the BBC mid-production in 1979, with a corporation press release citing “grotesque and bizarre sexual elements” in a play that included the prop of a severed penis preserved in a glass jar. (The story was eventually filmed by Channel 4 in 2002.)
McEwan’s original script for The Good Son, a film about a child who seems to have the potential for evil, went though the hands of multiple directors and other writers before becoming a 1993 vehicle for then child star Macaulay Culkin. McEwan publicly dissociated himself from the film, although his name is on the credits.
McEwan also suffered the more regular disappointment for a novelist of books not quite translating cinematically. Despite classy adapters and directors – Harold Pinter scripting Paul Schrader’s The Comfort of Strangers (1990), Joe Penhall writing Roger Michell’s Enduring Love (2004) – his books never seemed as suited to cinema in execution as they had appeared before shooting.
The Innocent (1993) was far from the best work of its star, Anthony Hopkins, or its director, John Schlesinger, possibly because the studio tried nervously to market as a romance a movie in which the key scene involves the protagonist and his lover cutting up the body of her husband and packing it into suitcases. The closest to movie gold was Joe Wright’s Atonement (2008), which was nominated for seven Oscars, winning one for its score.
Now, though, McEwan seems to have become the most screen-friendly novelist of his generation. Writers with a high screen strike rate are sometimes accused by critics of starting to write books that are screenplay-ready. McEwan’s most recent novel, though, might win an anti-Oscar for its resistance to filming: Nutshell is narrated by a foetus. If that story is to extend his current screen festival, perhaps only a visual maverick such as Charlie Kaufman (Anomalisa) or Yorgos Lanthimos (The Lobster) could manage it.
• The Child in Time is on BBC1 on 24 September.
!!!@@@$$$

Of the many deeply uncool things I am obsessed with – The Golden Girls, the oeuvre of Roxette, Princess Anne’s hair – the uncoolest is also the one that has been with me the longest. Tom Cruise has been a part of my mental landscape ever since I was old enough to read in a magazine that I was supposed to fancy him. I was alive in the 80s and, as strange as this is now to think about, what with his deeply unsexy obsession since with thetans, back then he was very much pitched as Mr Sexxxxxy. Which is even stranger when you think that Cruise didn’t even grow into his face for another decade: back in Risky Business and The Outsiders, he looked vague and doughy next to his co-stars, particularly the Adonis that was the young Rob Lowe.
Cruise was never really my type, but I will argue until closing time and beyond that he is one of the most watchable actors of all time: a proper Hollywood star who proved in one decade he could do top notch schlock (Top Gun), mediocre schlock (Cocktail) and proper acting (Born On The Fourth Of July and Rain Man, for which he should have won the Oscar instead of Dustin Hoffman).
It’s been fascinating to watch Cruise’s career since then, partly because of what his choice of roles says about him. There was his dramatic period in the 90s when he made relentless Oscar bids, peaking with Magnolia, and then, when that failed, his huffy retreat into decreasingly memorable action movies. He also stopped ageing – or rather, his ageing process took the shape of not actually growing older but increasingly resembling Sandi Toksvig. And that, too, has been fascinating in its way to watch.
But I’m also interested in Cruise because of what he reveals about what audiences will accept in their stars. Now, all celebrities are a bit weird, so when one is known for being Weird Even For A Celebrity, you know they are probably crossing over from “adorably eccentric” to “actually quite scary”. It’s been known for a while that Cruise crossed that line when he started wanging on about Scientology. But it is genuinely interesting how people just shrug off stories of his troubling relationships with women.
Last week it emerged that Cruise’s ex-wife Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx are in a relationship, after having kept this a secret for at least four years. This would be hard to do under normal circumstances, but is frankly Oscar-worthy in the case of two celebrities. It is also so contrary to modern celebrity ethos, which treats romance as a branding opportunity, that it seems downright alien. By contrast, Holmes and Foxx waited to reveal their relationship until almost five years to the day that she got divorced from Cruise, and it is being widely reported that this is because, in order to secure a quick divorce, Holmes had to agree to not date anyone “publicly” for half a decade.
Whether this is true or not is one of the many things about Cruise we will probably never know for sure. But the point is, after years of his increasingly freaky behaviour and the rumours about his relationships with actress Nazanin Boniadi, then Holmes, it sounds sufficiently plausible for no one to question it. “Sure!” the public shrugs. “Controlling your ex-wife’s life for five years – that sounds like our Tom! When’s Mission Impossible 22 out anyway?” If people don’t see his movies now it’s because he makes lame movies, not because of his relationships.
Male celebrities are still given an enormous amount of rope when it comes to their treatment of women, despite multiple lessons from the past. Last week another actor who is notoriously Weird Even For A Celebrity, Jim Carrey, gave a completely creepy red carpet interview, in which he sharkishly, Trumpishly, walked in circles around the female reporter and indulged in teenage-level musings on metaphysics. Two days earlier it was announced that Netflix has bought Carrey’s documentary, Jim and Andy: The Great Beyond, which had just got universally glowing reviews – without anyone mentioning Carrey is about to face a wrongful death trial over the suicide of his ex-girlfriend, Cathriona White. Carrey has denied all the allegations and has tried to stop the trial, by initially insisting White’s bereaved mother pay a $372,000 bond. Ace Ventura was a long time ago, people.
Actors are now regularly criticised if they sign on to a Woody Allen movie, because accusations of child molestation, even if deemed inconclusive by a judge 25 years ago, are too much. But suggestions of creepy controlling behaviour around women are, apparently, still fine. From Howard Hughes onwards, this has always been the celebrity way. Maybe Tom Cruise really is the full Hollywood package.
!!!@@@$$$

By my reckoning, I must be the healthiest person in the country. Brisk 10-minute walk a day? Tick. Two glasses of red wine every evening? Tick. (And if two glasses are good, only imagine the benefits that accrue to me from five.) Four cups of coffee a day? Tick. No smoking? Tick. No recreational drugs? Tick. Sunscreening? Tick. Statins? Tick. More than five hours’ sleep? Tick. More than six hours’ sleep? Tick. Emotional agility: as, for example, overcoming negative emotions by welcoming them with self-compassion? Tick. Porridge? Tick. Porridge and berries? Tick, tick. Cheese (I was once off it to avoid fat, now I’m on it again for protein, calcium and vitamins A and B12)? Tick. Not wearing Lycra? Tick. (I’m not sure whether I shouldn’t be wearing Lycra for health or for fashion reasons, so I’m not wearing it for both. In which case, make that another double tick.)
So why aren’t I feeling well? Could it be that some people are simply not fashioned to feel well no matter how many boxes they tick? There’s a presumption in the health industry that all any of us wants is to get ourselves into shape and live for ever. We are shepherded into blooming longevity, and before we are able to ask ourselves if we wouldn’t rather burn with Walter Pater’s “hard, gem-like flame” and then go out early, we find ourselves 110, unable to remember our name.
Poets are less sanguine about the virtues of durability. “It is not growing like a tree/In bulk doth make Man better be,” wrote Ben Jonson. “A lily of a day/Is fairer far in May,/Although it fall and die that night… And in short measures life may perfect be.”
It’s poets, of course, to whom we turn when we want examples of life perfected in short measures. In Deaths Of The Poets, published earlier this year, Michael Symmons Roberts and Paul Farley argue that in the popular imagination, a dissolute life culminating in an early and ideally messy death has become a precondition of poetic genius. Keats, who was gone in a moment, had the daemon; Wordsworth, who dragged on his life into dull respectability and probably rationed his alcohol intake, did not. What fascinates me is how much work those short-lived poets produce. Does genius, recognising itself to be a “lily of a day”, know it must get a move on? Is genius in a rush because it’s intrinsically morbid?
Meanwhile, the rest of us go on ticking boxes. Maybe the other side of genius indifferent to its health is mundanity taking its statins. If we can’t be a lily, we have to settle for being a tree.
!!!@@@$$$

Displacement has moved beyond a literary theme; for millions, it is reality. The notion of war has been overtaken by upheaval, which forces desperate people to flee without hope of a final destination, allowing history to repeat itself, relentlessly. This is the humanising lens through which Jenny Erpenbeck, Europe’s outstanding literary seer, views our world.
Previously she had looked to the layered history of her own country, Germany, in dazzling metaphysical fictions such as Visitation and The End of Days. As a Berliner born in the former East Germany in 1967, her early experience was dominated by living in a divided city within a fractured country; her work suggests that she believes human understanding resides in memory.
Her new novel resonates with an unexpected simplicity that is profound, unsettling and subtle. The prose, as before astutely translated by Susan Bernofsky, is this time far less incantatory. There is none of the stylistic bravura of Visitation, with its haunting scenes of lives lived and ended, often in images of horror, and of a silent gardener serving as a lone witness to the rampages of history. Instead Erpenbeck has relinquished theatricality for a conventional, calm and at times wry narrative that follows Richard, a self-contained widower and newly retired academic, as he discovers empathy through delving into the individual ordeals of a group of African asylum seekers in Berlin whom he gradually befriends and tries to help.
As the novel opens, the former classics professor is dealing with the prospect of retirement. His self-absorption dictates his daily routines; he is Everyman minding his patch. In his case it is a comfortable home complete with a high-maintenance garden. There is even his boat, tethered by a picturesque lake. Only there is a problem: the lake is less appealing these days. A man has drowned. It was a swimming accident, not suicide. “They say the ill-fated swimmer was wearing goggles.”
Disturbingly, the body remains lost somewhere beneath the placid surface. The image of it drifting in the water recurs throughout the novel and is a powerful metaphor for the uncertain existence of the asylum seekers suspended by bureaucracy – forbidden to work, to stay, to make a life.
It is only when watching the evening news that he realises he had walked by 10 African men staging a hunger strike. “Why didn’t Richard see these men at Alexanderplatz?” When the anonymous protest is ended, he regards it as a pity. “He’d liked the notion of making oneself visible by publicly refusing to say who one is. Odysseus had called himself Nobody to escape from the Cyclops’s cave.” From the opening pages, Erpenbeck makes clear that this cultivated academic knows little about Africa. “Where is Burkina Faso?” he wonders, and is surprised to learn that there are 54 African countries.
The book could easily have become a well-intentioned polemic, but Erpenbeck combines her philosophical intellect with hours of conversations conducted with refugees to tell a very human story about a lonely, emotionally insulated man slowly discovering there is a far wider, urgent world beyond him through his meetings with extraordinary, vividly drawn migrants, each with a story to tell.
Richard is a remarkable creation. He was once himself a displaced child in wartime; initially it is curiosity that draws him to the men. He approaches them as if they are a project, reading several books before compiling “a catalogue of questions for conversations he wants to have with them”. The list is heartbreaking: “Where did you grow up? What’s your native language? What’s your religious affiliation? How many people are in your family? Was there a TV? Did you have pets? How did you say your goodbyes? Can you imagine growing old here? Where do you want to be buried?”
But these men are not cases, they are lives. Some had children, some saw parents being killed. Others watched from boats as friends drowned. Erpenbeck and her translator make effective use of the inane rigidity of bureaucratic language. The law is not concerned that the men are victims of war: “The details of their histories are the sole legal responsibility of the country where they first set foot on European soil … The first thing that’ll be decided on is whether or not they’re allowed to apply for asylum.” The Africans master many languages yet struggle with German. Why? Because no one speaks it to them. Richard helps the men, responding to their interests, contrasting individual cultures and specific dilemmas, whose agonies make him recall tales from the Brothers Grimm. The refugees have nothing except their memories and their mobile phones, which contain invaluable numbers – their sole links with family, friends and who they once were.
Richard, a present-day pilgrim, becomes only too conscious of what he does not know. Music enables him to establish a friendship with one of the men, Osarobo. This echoes the sentiment from Visitation when an old woman recalls: “In the end there are certain things you can take with you when you flee, things that have no weight, such as music.”
Great fiction doesn’t have to be real, but it does have to be true. Erpenbeck’s powerful tale, delivered in a wonderfully plain, candid tone, is both real and true. It will alert readers, make us more aware and, it is to be hoped, more human.
• Eileen Battersby’s Teethmarks on My Tongue is published by Dalkey Archive.
• Go Went Gone is published by Granta. To order a copy for £12.74 (RRP £2.25) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
!!!@@@$$$

“KATHY GRIFFIN BEHEADS PRESIDENT TRUMP”. So shrieked the headline to a story posted on scurrilous gossip site TMZ on 30 May of this year. Griffin, best known for a standup act in which she acts as a showbusiness tattletale recounting mortifying run-ins with more famous celebrities backstage (her most famous targets include Cher, Josh Groban, Ryan Seacrest and Céline Dion), was pictured brandishing a blood-spattered Donald Trump mask looking like a recruiter for a Beverly Hills branch of Isis.
Fallout from the photograph was swift. The 45th president tweeted his displeasure (“Kathy Griffin should be ashamed of herself … Sick!”) and noted that his son Barron was having a hard time dealing with the image. The First Lady added that someone who would pose for such a photograph must be mentally ill.
Griffin explains that the offending snap was taken in about 20 minutes at the end of day-long photoshoot. “I took a picture that you or any one of your friends could make,” she explains. “I put it online and was under federal investigation for conspiracy to assassinate the President of the United States of America. I didn’t do anything wrong. It’s insane and I truly believe if it happened to me it could happen to you.”
Her professional standing was dealt a number of blows. She was speedily axed from her regular job of co-presenting CNN’s New Year’s Eve show with long-time friend Anderson Cooper. An upcoming live tour was cancelled due to death threats. The Secret Service opened an investigation into Griffin’s motives in posing for such an inflammatory picture. The flame-haired comic was assailed by outraged tweets from political and showbusiness luminaries affiliated with both sides of the ideological divide. “I was vilified by everyone,” says Griffin in her characteristic manic rasp. “I was vilified by Chelsea fucking Clinton. I was vilified by my friend Don Cheadle. I was vilified by people I’d had at my fucking home. Nobody had my back. It happened so fast. I didn’t see it coming.”
That it happened to Kathy Griffin at all is ironic. Prior to the Trump decapitation, the most controversial moment in her career was her 2007 Emmy acceptance speech for her reality sitcom, My Life on the D-List, when she reacted to the previous procession of celebrities dedicating their awards to their buddy, Jesus, with a jubilant “No one had less to do with this award than Jesus. Suck it, Jesus. This award is my god now.”
While Griffin is politically engaged on a personal level – “I’m a resister. I still go to every march in the world”– politics is not what built the $10.5m Los Angeles home that is situated next door to Kim Kardashian and Kanye West’s residence. If the name Kathy Griffin was notable in any way to the pop culture consumers of the 1990s, it was either because of a small role in Eminem’s The Real Slim Shady video or a slightly larger one as Brooke Shields’s inappropriate, loudmouth sidekick in the unfondly recalled sitcom Suddenly Susan.
At the same time Griffin was honing her standup persona (Sandra Bernhard and Garfield leafing through The National Enquirer) at comedy clubs, including the Groundlings theatre where, in 1992, she started Hot Cup of Talk with fellow comics Margaret Cho and Janeane Garofalo. Her set evolved to include bits where she would play video clips capturing the likes of Julia Roberts and Mariah Carey at their most deluded and least relatable (“I love Mariah Carey. Remember the breakdown? I love the breakdown”). She comments: “Hollywood is like high school: the celebrities I make fun of are pretty much the mean cheerleaders in school.”
Griffin may share a following and a similarly pugnacious delivery with her friend and mentor Joan Rivers, but Rivers spent much of her stage life dispensing advice on ensnaring men, while Griffin treats straight males with a mixture of disinterest and disbelief. (“Are you a gay man?” she asks me at one point. When I own up to identifying as a straight man, she utters a revolted, “Ugghh. Who’s the publisher of this fucking fishwrap? What are you doing giving me a fucking straight for this interview?”) Mocking celebrity obliviousness propelled Griffin into the mainstream. In 2005, her cable show My Life on the D-List catalogued the daily indignities of being on the periphery of fame, while also dealing with the dissolution of her marriage, the death of her father, and displaying the occasional fragility of her self-esteem.
American comedy in 2017 is synonymous with being loudly anti-Trump. Saturday Night Live’s ratings have never been higher. Bill Maher and John Oliver both just saw their Trump-excoriating current affairs comedy shows renewed until 2020. Late night is filled with highly rated left-wing Trump bashers such as Samantha Bee, Trevor Noah and Seth Meyers. I go through this list with Griffin to illustrate all the people more likely than her to have detonated such a far-reaching explosion. I bring up the name of Stephen Colbert, who started the year with TV experts predicting the day and date of his likely dismissal and is going to end it crowned King Of Late Night. “Fuck Stephen Colbert!” she bellows. “He has the whole power of CBS behind him. Bill Maher frickin’ dropped the n-word and then was back at work four days later with full support of HBO. I was on the no-fly zone for fuck’s sake!”
Returning to a woe-is-me theme she knows that I know is partly material she’s getting in shape for her act and partly genuine indignation, she thunders on. “I’m not a CNN employee. I work there for one night when [network head] Jeff Zucker says, ‘I’m going to pay you a hundredth of what I pay Anderson Cooper and I’m going to limit your jokes so even though you have to co-write the whole four and half hours, you can only have three Trump jokes’,” she says. “This is the head of a global news organisation censoring a comedian on the very night he’s hired that comedian to be as outrageous as possible with their very stoic tentpole star with steely blue eyes.”
Griffin’s reference is to now former friend Anderson Cooper, who denounced her Trump picture. I suggest that Cooper wanted to be seen as being titillated by her comedy while still maintaining a detachment. “That’s the story of my life, honey,” she drawls. “They want to suck the comedy out of me and then they want to detach.”
Griffin doesn’t even pause for breath when asked why, among the plethora of comics trading in potentially treasonous material, she was the one to take the fall. “Fifty-six-year-old female,” she says bluntly. “I will not be convinced this was not a straight-up case of sexism and ageism. I really think Trump went for me because I was an easy target.”
Recently, Hillary Clinton spoke about the dichotomy between Griffin’s treatment and hers during the presidential race. “We recently had this big kerfuffle – this condemnation of Kathy Griffin – for the picture she had of herself holding a head of Trump like a play on Perseus holding the head of Medusa,” she said on the With Her podcast. “They were selling T-shirts and mugs at the Republican [National] Convention with Trump holding my head. Nobody said a word. Not a word!”
On 3 June, Griffin, shaken by the onslaught of disapproval, held a press conference during which she apologised for the picture and mumbled, “I don’t think I will have a career after this.” She has subsequently announced a world tour – “I have to go to Reykjavik to get a laugh!” – whose official poster features her holding a globe in the same way she posed when clutching the Trump head. So, is that apology still applicable?
“All my comedian friends were mad that I apologised at all, but having performed in two war zones, I thought this is a narrow apology because the thing people think was depicted I understand,” she says. “Rosie O’Donnell, the pre-eminent expert on being terrorised by Donald Trump, said, ‘What if Daniel Pearl’s [US journalist who was beheaded by terrorists] mother sees the photo?’ So I totally get it. But in light of everything Trump and the administration have done since, I 100% withdraw my apology.”
Griffin says that it was hypocritical that she was singled out, considering all the things Trump has been responsible for. “I will openly accuse the President of the United States of human rights violations,” she adds. “You know, my whole life and career has been championing the rights of women, gay folk and disenfranchised folk. This administration is a fucking nightmare for us.”
Beyond the death threats, beyond the damage to her reputation, beyond the irreparable damage done to cherished personal relationships, one consequence of that fateful photo session wounds Griffin most deeply. “I was the face of Squatty Potty,” she wails, referring to her endorsement of a popular US toilet stool designed to enhance bowel posture. “Squatty Potty is an organisation run by two married gay guys who hired me for a commercial which they wrote that said, “Kathy Griffin Is Full of Shit.” They put me on the front page of their website and it said, “Kathy Griffin, Queen of Poop.” And then those two gay guys go on Fox News and they say, ‘Kathy Griffin ruined our business!’”
Griffin cackles at the loss of her Squatty Potty millions but then turns sombre. She mentions other celebrities such as Johnny Depp, Snoop Dogg and Bill Maher who have taken a vocal anti-Trump stance. “This will not follow them the rest of their careers,” she says. “I’m the only one who had to do the perp walk. I’m going to have to figure my way out of this and I’m going to have to do it one joke at a time.”
Kathy Griffin plays Vicar Street, Dublin, Wednesday 8 November; London Palladium, Friday 10 November; Assembly Rooms, Edinburgh, Saturday 11 November
!!!@@@$$$

John and I were living on Franklin Avenue in Los Angeles. I had wanted to revisit the South, so we flew there for a month in 1970. The idea was to start in New Orleans and from there we had no plan. We went wherever the day took us. I seem to remember that John drove. I had not been back since 1942–43, when my father was stationed in Durham, North Carolina, but it did not seem to have changed that much. At the time, I had thought it might be a piece.
In New Orleans in June the air is heavy with sex and death, not violent death but death by decay, overripeness, rotting, death by drowning, suffocation, fever of unknown etiology.
The place is physically dark, dark like the negative of a photograph, dark like an X-ray: the atmosphere absorbs its own light, never reflects light but sucks it in until random objects glow with a morbid luminescence. The crypts above ground dominate certain vistas. In the hypnotic liquidity of the atmosphere all motion slows into choreography, all people on the street move as if suspended in a precarious emulsion, and there seems only a technical distinction between the quick and the dead.
One afternoon on St. Charles Avenue I saw a woman die, fall forward over the wheel of her car. “Dead,” pronounced an old woman who stood with me on the sidewalk a few inches from where the car had veered into a tree. After the police ambulance came I followed the old woman through the aqueous light of the Pontchartrain Hotel garage and into the coffee shop. The death had seemed serious but casual, as if it had taken place in a pre-Columbian city where death was expected, and did not in the long run count for much.
“Whose fault is it,” the old woman was saying to the waitress in the coffee shop, her voice trailing off.
“It’s nobody’s fault, Miss Clarice.”
“They can’t help it, no.”
“They can’t help at all.” I had thought they were talking about the death but they were talking about the weather. “Richard used to work at the Bureau and he told me, they can’t help what comes in on the radar.” The waitress paused, as if for emphasis. “They simply cannot be held to account.”
“They just can’t,” the old woman said.
“It comes in on the radar.”
The words hung in the air. I swallowed a piece of ice.
“And we get it,” the old woman said after a while.
It was a fatalism I would come to recognize as endemic to the particular tone of New Orleans life. Bananas would rot, and harbor tarantulas. Weather would come in on the radar, and be bad. Children would take fever and die, domestic arguments would end in knifings, the construction of highways would lead to graft and cracked pavement where the vines would shoot back. Affairs of state would turn on sexual jealousy, in New Orleans as if in Port-au-Prince, and all the king’s men would turn on the king. The temporality of the place is operatic, childlike, the fatalism that of a culture dominated by wilderness. “All we know,” said the mother of Carl Austin Weiss of the son who had just shot and killed Huey Long in a corridor of the Louisiana State Capitol Building in Baton Rouge, “is that he took living seriously.”
As it happens I was taught to cook by someone from Louisiana, where an avid preoccupation with recipes and food among men was not unfamiliar to me. We lived together for some years, and I think we most fully understood each other when once I tried to kill him with a kitchen knife. I remember spending whole days cooking with N., perhaps the most pleasant days we spent together. He taught me to fry chicken and to make a brown rice stuffing for fowl and to chop endive with garlic and lemon juice and to lace everything I did with Tabasco and Worcestershire and black pepper. The first present he ever gave me was a garlic press, and also the second, because I broke the first. One day on the Eastern Shore we spent hours making shrimp bisque and then had an argument about how much salt it needed, and because he had been drinking Sazeracs for several hours he poured salt in to make his point. It was like brine, but we pretended it was fine. Throwing the chicken on the floor, or the artichoke. Buying crab boil. Discussing endlessly the possibilities of an artichoke-and-oyster casserole. After I married he still called me up occasionally for recipes.
The first time I was ever in the South was in late 1942, early 1943. My father was stationed in Durham, North Carolina, and my mother and brother and I took a series of slow and overcrowded trains to meet him there. At home in California I had cried at night, I had lost weight, I had wanted my father. I had imagined the Second World War as a punishment specifically designed to deprive me of my father, had counted up my errors and, with an egocentricity which then approached autism and which afflicts me still in dreams and fevers and marriage, found myself guilty.
Of the trip I recall mainly that a sailor who had just been torpedoed on the Wasp in the Pacific gave me a silver-and-turquoise ring, and that we missed our connection in New Orleans and could get no room and sat up one night on a covered verandah of the St. Charles Hotel, my brother and I in matching seersucker sunsuits and my mother in a navy-blue-and-white-checked silk dress dusty from the train. She covered us with the mink coat she had bought before her marriage and wore until 1956. We were taking trains instead of driving because a few weeks before in California she had lent the car to an acquaintance who drove it into a lettuce truck outside Salinas, a fact of which I am certain because it remains a source of rancor, in my father’s dialogue, to this day. I last heard it mentioned a week ago. My mother made no response, only laid out another hand of solitaire.
In Durham we had one room with kitchen privileges in the house of a lay minister whose children ate apple butter on thick slabs of bread all day long and referred to their father in front of us as “Reverend Caudill.” In the evenings Reverend Caudill would bring home five or six quarts of peach ice cream, and he and his wife and children would sit on the front porch spooning peach ice cream from the cartons while we lay in our room watching our mother read and waiting for Thursday.
Thursday was the day we could take the bus to Duke University, which had been taken over by the military, and spend the afternoon with my father. He would buy us a Coca-Cola in the student union and walk us around the campus and take snapshots of us, which I now have, and look at from time to time: two small children and a woman who resembles me, sitting by the lagoon, standing by the wishing well, the snapshots always lightstruck or badly focused and, in any case, now faded. Thirty years later I am certain that my father must also have been with us on weekends, but I can only suggest that his presence in the small house, his tension and his aggressive privacy and his preference for shooting craps over eating peach ice cream, must have seemed to me so potentially disruptive as to efface all memory of weekends.
On the days of the week which were not Thursday I played with a set of paper dolls lent me by Mrs. Caudill, the dolls bearing the faces of Vivien Leigh, Olivia de Havilland, Ann Rutherford, and Butterfly McQueen as they appeared in Gone With the Wind, and I also learned from the neighborhood children to eat raw potatoes dipped in the soft dust from beneath the house. I know now that eating pica is common in the undernourished South, just as I know now why the driver of the bus on the first Thursday we went out to Duke refused to leave the curb until we had moved from the back seat to the front, but I did not know it then. I did not even know then that my mother found our sojourn of some months in Durham less than ideal.
I could never precisely name what impelled me to spend time in the South during the summer of 1970. There was no reportorial imperative to any of the places I went at the time I went: nothing “happened” anywhere I was, no celebrated murders, trials, integration orders, confrontations, not even any celebrated acts of God.
I had only some dim and unformed sense, a sense which struck me now and then, and which I could not explain coherently, that for some years the South and particularly the Gulf Coast had been for America what people were still saying California was, and what California seemed to me not to be: the future, the secret source of malevolent and benevolent energy, the psychic center. I did not much want to talk about this.
I had only the most ephemeral “picture” in my mind. If I talked about it I could mention only Clay Shaw, and Garrison, and a pilot I had once met who flew between the Gulf and unnamed Caribbean and Central American airstrips for several years on small planes with manifests that showed only “tropical flowers,” could mention only some apprehension of paranoia and febrile conspiracy and baroque manipulation and peach ice cream and an unpleasant evening I had spent in 1962 on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. In short I could only sound deranged. And so instead of talking about it I flew south one day in the summer of 1970, rented a car, and drove for a month or so around Louisiana and Mississippi and Alabama, saw no spokesmen, covered no events, did nothing at all but try to find out, as usual, what was making the picture in my mind.
❦
One afternoon we took the ferry to Algiers and drove an hour or so down the river, in Plaquemines Parish. This is peculiar country. Algiers is a doubtful emulsion of white frame bungalows and jerry-built apartment complexes, the Parc Fontaine Apts. and so forth, and the drive on down the river takes you through a landscape more metaphorical than any I have seen outside the Sonoran Desert.
Here and there one is conscious of the levee, off to the left. Corn and tomatoes grow aimlessly, as if naturalized. I am too accustomed to agriculture as agribusiness, the rich vistas of the California valleys where all the resources of Standard Oil and the University of California have been brought to bear on glossy constant productivity. No Hunting of Quadrupeds, a sign read in Belle Chasse. What could that mean? Can you hunt reptiles? Bipeds?
There are dead dogs by the road, and a sinking graveyard in a grove of live oak.
Getting close to Port Sulphur we began to see sulphur works, the tanks glowing oddly in the peculiar light. We ran over three snakes in the hour’s drive, one of them a thick black moccasin already dead, twisted across the one lane. There were run-down antiques places, and tomato stands, and a beauty shop called Feminine Fluff. The snakes, the rotting undergrowth, sulphurous light: the images are so specifically those of the nightmare world that when we stopped for gas, or directions, I had to steel myself, deaden every nerve, in order to step from the car onto the crushed oyster shells in front of the gas station. When we got back to the hotel I stood in the shower for almost half an hour trying to wash myself clean of the afternoon, but then I started thinking about where the water came from, what dark places it had pooled in.
When I think now about New Orleans I remember mainly its dense obsessiveness, its vertiginous preoccupation with race, class, heritage, style, and the absence of style. As it happens, these particular preoccupations all involve distinctions which the frontier ethic teaches western children to deny and to leave deliberately unmentioned, but in New Orleans such distinctions are the basis of much conversation, and lend that conversation its peculiar childlike cruelty and innocence. In New Orleans they also talk about parties, and about food, their voices rising and falling, never still, as if talking about anything at all could keep the wilderness at bay. In New Orleans the wilderness is sensed as very near, not the redemptive wilderness of the western imagination but something rank and old and malevolent, the idea of wilderness not as an escape from civilization and its discontents but as a mortal threat to a community precarious and colonial in its deepest aspect. The effect is lively and avaricious and intensely self-absorbed, a tone not uncommon in colonial cities, and the principal reason I find such cities invigorating.
Everything seems to go to seed along the Gulf: walls stain, windows rust. Curtains mildew. Wood warps. Air conditioners cease to function. In our room at the Edgewater Gulf Hotel, where the Mississippi Broadcasters’ Convention was taking place, the air conditioner in the window violently shook and rattled every time it was turned on. The Edgewater Gulf is an enormous white hotel which looks like a giant laundry, and has the appearance of being on the verge of condemnation. The swimming pool is large and unkempt, and the water smells of fish. Behind the hotel is a new shopping center built around an air-conditioned mall, and I kept escaping there, back into midstream America.
... At the Ramada Inn in Tuscaloosa I sat outside by the swimming pool about five o’clock one afternoon and read Sally Kempton’s piece in Esquire about her father and other men she had known. There was no sun. The air was as liquid as the pool. Everything seemed to be made of concrete, and damp. A couple of men in short-sleeved nylon shirts sat at another metal table and drank beer from cans. Later we tried to find somewhere open to eat. I called a place on University Boulevard, and the owner said to turn left at the Skyline Drive-in. On the way we got lost and stopped in a gas station to ask directions. The attendant had no idea where University Boulevard was (the University of Alabama is on University Boulevard) but could give us directions to the Skyline.
A traveler in the rural South in the summertime is always eating dinner, dispiritedly, in the barely waning heat of the day. One is a few hundred miles and a culture removed from any place that serves past 7:30 or 8 p.m. We ate dinner one night at a motel on the road between Winfield and Guin. The sun still blazed on the pavement outside, and was filtered only slightly by the aqueous blue-green Pliofilm shades on the windows inside. The food seemed to have been deep-fried for the lunch business and kept lukewarm on a steam table. Eating is an ordeal, as in an institution, something to be endured in the interests of survival. There are no drinks to soften the harshness of it. Ice is begrudged. I remember in one such place asking for iced coffee. The waitress asked me how to make it. “Same way as iced tea,” I said. She looked at me without expression. “In a cup?” she asked.
The waitress in the place in Guin trailed me to the cash register. She was holding a matchbook I had left on the table. “I was looking at your matchbook,” she said. “Where’s it from?” I said it was from Biloxi. “Biloxi, Mississippi?” she said, and studied the matchbook as if it were a souvenir from Nepal. I said yes. She tucked the matchbook in her pocket and turned away.
... The way in which all the reporting tricks I had ever known atrophied in the South. There were things I should do, I knew it: but I never did them. I never made an appointment with the bridal consultant of the biggest department store in any town I was in. I never made the Miss Mississippi Hospitality Contest SemiFinals, although they were being held in little towns not far from where we were, wherever we were. I neglected to call the people whose names I had, and hung around drugstores instead. I was underwater in some real sense, the whole month.
I kept talking to Mrs. Frances Kirby by telephone in Jackson. Mrs. Kirby was in charge of the Miss Hospitality contests, in Bay Springs, Cleveland, Clinton, Greenwood, Gulfport, Indianola, Leland, Lewisville. I was within a few miles of Cleveland on the day that contest would be held, and I called the sponsors, the chamber of commerce, and they said to come on “up at the country club” and watch, but I never even did that.
• South and West: From a Notebook is published by 4th Estate. To order a copy for £8.50 (RRP £10) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
Why did you choose to publish the notebooks now?
I had been looking at the notebooks and it occurred to me that they could be of interest.
What does it feel like to revisit those memories after nearly 50 years?
I’d rather not think of it as 50 years.
What role do your notebooks play in your journalism?
I have kept notebooks since I was a child. They are a fundamental part of my process. The next stage is to polish them, to retype them and see what’s there. If I’m very lucky, something is there. If I’m not very lucky, I do another draft of them. I still keep notebooks. I don’t have plans to publish others, but that may change.
Did it seem more revealing or exposing to publish your notebooks than your other books?
It was a more raw experience. I can’t say why.
There are several unforgettable descriptions of awful motel pools throughout your trip. Why is swimming so evocative to you as a writer?
I like to swim. In California, where water is scarce, pools represent control.
In his forward to South and West, Nathaniel Rich suggests that your experiences of the South of the 1970s are uncannily pertinent to the US of 2017. Was the crisis in US politics a factor in your decision to return to that period?
I suppose the crisis in American politics was behind everything I was thinking, whether or not I knew I was thinking it. These things have a way of creeping in. I think we currently are living through the scariest of times.
!!!@@@$$$
