

Longtime MLB first baseman Rafael Palmeiro is considering a comeback at age 53, 12 years after his last game in the major leagues.
On Wednesday, Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic passed along comments from the four-time All-Star, who remains confident in his physical abilities.
"There's no doubt in my mind I can do it," Palmeiro said. "I've taken care of myself really well. I've been working out for years. Everything feels better than when I played."
                 
This article will be updated to provide more information on this story as it becomes available.
Get the best sports content from the web and social in the new B/R app. Get the app and get the game.



MLB teams are still in the preliminary stages of shaping their rosters for the upcoming season as the winter meetings are right around the corner and we're still several months from the start of spring training.
Despite that fact, there is still at least one player from each team who already finds himself on the roster bubble.
Whether it's a player who is out of minor league options, an obvious trade candidate, someone who could soon be pushed out by an up-and-coming prospect or something else altogether, the following players find themselves at a crossroads with their current organization.
     
Note: An asterisk (*) indicates that a player is out of minor league options.

Baltimore Orioles: RHP Gabriel Ynoa*
Before his contract was purchased by the Orioles last February, Gabriel Ynoa had ranked among the top-20 prospects in the New York Mets organization four years running.
The 24-year-old went 2-3 with a 4.15 ERA and 1.36 WHIP in 34.2 innings at the MLB level last year spanning four starts and five relief appearances and he's currently penciled into a spot in the Baltimore rotation.
However, that will likely change with a few outside additions this winter. He still has some intriguing potential, especially out of the bullpen where his mid-90s fastball and good slider have a chance to play up. It's just a question of whether he survives the roster crunch this spring or ends up landing elsewhere.
     
Boston Red Sox: C/OF Blake Swihart*
Blake Swihart ranked as the No. 17 prospect in all of baseball prior to 2015 and he debuted that season with a .712 OPS, 17 doubles and five home runs in 309 plate appearances.
He's seen just 81 total plate appearances in the majors the past two seasons while dealing with injuries, but it still sounds like he has a fan in team president Dave Dombrowski.
"We like his athleticism, we like him as a player," Dombrowski told Jen McCaffrey of MassLive. "He didn't have a good offensive year during the season. I think a lot of that was based on missing time the year before and getting hurt early in the year with his hand, but he really swung the bat well in winter ball. We like him a great deal. We think he can hit. So, ideally, we have to find a spot somehow."
A Chris Herrmann-type role might be the best-case scenario for Swihart in Boston and a change of scenery could prove beneficial.
     
New York Yankees: RHP Bryan Mitchell*
Assuming the Yankees add an outside arm to fill out the rotation behind Luis Severino, Masahiro Tanaka, Sonny Gray and Jordan Montgomery, there's a real chance Bryan Mitchell will be a roster casualty.
The 26-year-old has bounced between Triple-A and the majors the past few seasons with mostly underwhelming results at the MLB level where he has a 4.94 ERA, 1.62 WHIP and 5.9 K/9 in 98.1 career innings.
While he hasn't missed many bats in the big leagues, he did post a 3.25 ERA with a 66-to-13 strikeout-to-walk ratio in 63.2 innings as a starter for Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre last season. Success like that in the high minors will make it difficult to sneak him through waivers.
     
Tampa Bay Rays: IF Brad Miller
It's hard to know exactly what to make of Brad Miller.
The 28-year-old posted a 113 OPS+ and slugged 30 home runs during the 2016 season before injuries saw that cut to an 84 OPS+ and just nine home runs in 407 plate appearances last year.
While that power outage and his .201 average left a lot to be desired, he quietly raised his walk rate from 7.8 to 15.5 percent and his hard-contact rate also climbed from 35.1 to 38.4 percent.
Miller currently has a clear path to playing time following the departure of Logan Morrison. But even if the team doesn't sign another first baseman and he breaks camp with the starting job, prospect Jake Bauers will be knocking on the door before too long.
The window to secure his long-term place on the team is closing.
     
Toronto Blue Jays: OF Ezequiel Carrera*
Ezequiel Carrera provided league-average offense (100 OPS+) and some decent speed (10 steals in 11 attempts) last season, but he posted brutal defensive metrics (-14 DRS, -13.3 UZR/150) and finished the year with a minus-0.4 WAR.
While the Blue Jays opted to non-tender slick-fielding Ryan Goins and right-hander Tom Koehler last week, Carrera was tendered a contract and he's projected to earn $1.9 million in arbitration.
Considering Carrera's below-average performance last season and lack of upside, the team might be better suited giving the fourth outfielder job to someone like Dwight Smith Jr. or Dalton Pompey.

Chicago White Sox: DH Matt Davidson*
A former top prospect who was quickly earning the dreaded "Quad-A" designation, Matt Davidson finally saw extended action at the MLB level in 2017 and he responded with 26 home runs in 443 plate appearances.
However, he hit just .220/.260/.452 in the process while striking out at a 37.2 percent clip and walking a grand total of 19 times. His 87 OPS+ paints a picture of a below-average offensive player.
The second-half emergence of Nicky Delmonico should be enough to earn him the starting DH gig and that means a reduced role for Davidson. As he gets set to enter his age-27 season, his odds of being a long-term piece for the rebuilding club are dwindling.
     
Cleveland Indians: 3B Giovanny Urshela*
The Indians saw enough in Giovanny Urshela's glove at third base that they moved Jason Kipnis to center field when he returned from a trip to the disabled list last season.
While he might pass the eye test, defensive metrics were not overly enthused with his performance (0 DRS, 6.9 UZR/150) and he provided next to nothing offensively (44 OPS+).
Urshela and fellow infielder Erik Gonzalez are both out of options and there might be just one spot for those two guys when it comes to filling out the bench. Gonzalez has a higher offensive ceiling and is a solid defender in his own right, so he'll have the upper hand.
     
Detroit Tigers: RHP Buck Farmer*
A fifth-round pick in 2013, Buck Farmer went 12-6 with a 3.07 ERA, 1.17 WHIP and 129 strikeouts in 123 innings over three minor league levels before reaching the majors in his first full season as a pro.
That was enough to earn him the No. 2 rank among Detroit prospects heading into the 2015 season, but he's yet to find much success at the MLB level with a 6.80 ERA and 1.63 WHIP in 127 total innings.
The Tigers can afford to be more patient than most teams as they're still in the early stages of what figures to be a lengthy rebuild. However, the 26-year-old is out of minor league options and quickly running out of chances to prove he belongs in a big league rotation.
     
Kansas City Royals: LHP Brian Flynn*
It looked like Brian Flynn would be a key member of the Royals bullpen after he posted a 2.60 ERA and 1.10 WHIP over 36 appearances during the 2016 season.
Instead, the left-hander suffered a freak injury last February when he fell through the roof of his barn and suffered three non-displaced fractures in his vertebrae.
He wound up making just one big league appearance, spending the bulk of the season in Triple-A where he ran up a 5.40 ERA over 50 innings.
Just like the Tigers, the Royals are headed for a rebuild, so they can afford to be patient with the 27-year-old. He'll need to earn his spot on the roster this spring, though, or else he could be headed for the waiver wire.
     
Minnesota Twins: 1B Kennys Vargas*
Kennys Vargas slugged 13 doubles and 11 home runs in 264 plate appearances for the Twins last season, but he took a significant step backward in his overall approach at the plate.
His walk rate dropped from 13.6 to 7.6 percent and his on-base percentage (.333 to .314) and OPS (.833 to. 758) followed suit.
The 27-year-old doesn't offer much upside and if the Twins decide to use Miguel Sano as the everyday DH, it will come at the cost of playing time and perhaps even a roster spot for Vargas.

Houston Astros: OF Preston Tucker
Preston Tucker turned in a solid rookie season in 2015 when he posted a 102 OPS+ with 19 doubles and 13 home runs in 323 plate appearances.
However, he failed to match that production the following season and spent all of 2017 in Triple-A where he hit .250/.333/.465 with 24 home runs and 96 RBI.
The 27-year-old simply doesn't have a role beyond organizational depth on the defending champs. He's been overtaken by Derek Fisher as the next man up for a starting outfield spot. While he still has one option remaining, it will likely take a trade for him to get another extended opportunity at the MLB level.
     
Los Angeles Angels: C Carlos Perez*
Carlos Perez saw semi-regular playing time behind the plate for the Angels during the 2015 and 2016 seasons thanks to his strong defensive skills.
However, he hit just .229/.271/.335 for a 69 OPS+ during that span and saw just 11 games of MLB action this past season.
With Gold Glove winner Martin Maldonado now firmly entrenched as the team's starting catcher and both Juan Graterol and Curt Casali in the mix for the backup job, it's unclear if Perez still has a place on the Angels' roster.
     
Oakland Athletics: IF/OF Renato Nunez*
There's a time not long ago when Renato Nunez ranked ahead of 2017 rookie standout Matt Olson among Oakland Athletics prospects.
Nunez has little left to prove in the minors after another strong season in which he posted an .837 OPS and slugged 32 home runs in Triple-A.
However, he's also without a clear path to playing time now that Olson and Matt Chapman have seized the corner infield spots. It remains to be seen whether he'll make enough consistent contact to tap into his plus power at the next level and his opportunity to be anything more than a power bat off the bench may have already come and gone in Oakland.
     
Seattle Mariners: 1B Dan Vogelbach
Dan Vogelbach entered spring training last year expected to secure the bigger slice of a platoon with lefty-masher Danny Valencia at first base.
Instead, he began the season in Triple-A after a slow spring and wound up tallying just 31 total plate appearances at the MLB level.
The 24-year-old did hit .290/.388/.455 with 25 doubles, 17 home runs and 83 RBI for Triple-A Tacoma—continuing to show terrific plate discipline and playable pop—but his future in Seattle has become cloudy after the team swung a trade for Ryon Healy.
     
Texas Rangers: IF/OF Jurickson Profar*
There's no player in baseball who needs a change of scenery more than Jurickson Profar.
The former No. 1 overall prospect has fallen out of favor in Texas to the point that he didn't even receive a September call-up last year. He simply doesn't have a place on the roster, especially following the addition of Willie Calhoun.
Still only 24 years old, Profar has hit just .229/.309/.329 in 718 career plate appearances, yet the Rangers should have no problem finding at least a handful of interested parties if he were shopped in earnest.

Atlanta Braves: RHP Mauricio Cabrera*
Mauricio Cabrera lit up radar guns to the tune of a 101.1 mph average fastball velocity during the 2016 season, posting a 2.82 ERA with six saves and eight holds over 41 appearances as a rookie.
However, he didn't make a single appearance with the big club last season after he was slowed by a sore elbow early and then struggled to a 6.49 ERA with more walks (45) than strikeouts (38) over 43 innings in the minors.
The Braves have five other relievers who are also out of minor league options—Jose Ramirez, Sam Freeman, Luke Jackson, Josh Ravin and Chase Whitley—so they'll need to decide if it's worth committing a roster spot to Cabrera, likely at the cost of one of those other guys.
      
Miami Marlins: LHP Justin Nicolino*
Justin Nicolino showed some promise as a rookie during the 2015 season when he posted a 4.01 ERA and 1.24 WHIP over 12 starts, despite striking out just 23 batters in 74 innings.
However, he's failed to build off that success in subsequent seasons and owns a 4.65 ERA, 1.46 WHIP and 3.8 K/9 in parts of three MLB seasons.
The 26-year-old spent most of his time last season in the bullpen, but allowing a .397 average and .986 OPS to opposing lefties doesn't bode well for his chances of carving out a role as a specialist.
Instead, it looks like there's a good chance he'll be a roster casualty. 
     
New York Mets: 1B Dominic Smith
The No. 71 prospect in baseball at the start of last season, Dominic Smith struggled mightily in his first taste of the big leagues.
The 22-year-old hit a paltry .198/.262/.395 for a 71 OPS+ and a minus-1.2 WAR in 49 games and those struggles have caused the Mets to explore potential alternatives at first base for the upcoming season.
GM Sandy Alderson made it clear that Smith is not guaranteed the starting job during exit interviews at the end of the season and Smith sounded ready to use that as motivation.
"We had a great conversation. We both agreed that I didn’t perform like I would like, and like he said, the job isn’t mine. It’s not secured, it’s not mine. I didn’t leave that meeting upset or hurt or mad or angry. I left it motivated,” Smith told Peter Botte of the New York Daily News. "I’m not taking anything for granted. I know I didn’t perform like I know I’m capable of. I know I didn’t perform like I would like and I’m definitely going to work my butt off this spring training. I’m going to spring training in shape and going to spring training ready to win a job."
     
Philadelphia Phillies: OF Roman Quinn
Unless he can find a way to stay healthy long enough to showcase his game-changing speed and top-of-the-order potential, Roman Quinn risks falling by the wayside in the Phillies' rebuild.
The 24-year-old was slowed by an elbow injury last year and he's yet to play 100 games in a season since being selected in the second round of the 2011 draft.
With 169 stolen bases, 32 triples and a .352 on-base percentage in 401 minor league games his upside is obvious. What's not obvious is how he fits into the team's long-term plans since he has yet to stay on the field for a full season.
     
Washington Nationals: RHP A.J. Cole*
Is A.J. Cole a legitimate rotation candidate, a future reliever or organizational depth?
That's the question the Nationals will have to answer this spring as they decide whether to commit a roster spot to the 25-year-old right-hander.
Cole appeared as a top-100 prospect twice during his time in the minors and he has the stuff with a mid-90s fastball that is backed by a solid slider/curveball pairing.
However, he struggled to a 5.88 ERA and 1.75 WHIP in 18 starts for Triple-A Syracuse and his 5.20 FIP in 52 innings in the majors didn't inspire much hope for future success.

Chicago Cubs: RHP Eddie Butler*
The Cubs claimed Eddie Butler off waivers from the Rockies last offseason and the former top prospect ended up going 4-3 with a 3.95 ERA in 11 starts and two relief appearances.
While those numbers might look good on the surface, he backed them with a 4.66 FIP, 1.43 WHIP and a 30-to-28 K/BB ratio in 54.2 innings.
He also averaged just 4.2 innings per start.
The 26-year-old will either need to carve out a role as a multi-inning reliever or risk being exposed to the waiver-wire once again, as it's unlikely he'll get another chance to start in Chicago beyond spot duty.
     
Cincinnati Reds: IF Dilson Herrera*
It looked like Dilson Herrera had a chance to be the second baseman of the future for the Reds when he was acquired from the Mets in exchange for Jay Bruce.
After posting a .791 OPS with 24 doubles and 15 home runs at the Triple-A level in 2016, he was slowed by a bum shoulder this past season and eventually underwent season-ending arthroscopic surgery to remove bone chips at the end of July.
Meanwhile, waiver-pickup Scooter Gennett came out of nowhere with a 124 OPS+ and 27 home runs to seize the everyday second base job and he's under team control through 2019.
Herrera could break camp in a utility role simply to keep from exposing him to waivers, but he has a lot to prove if he still has his sights set on the everyday second base gig.
     
Milwaukee Brewers: RHP Junior Guerra*
There was perhaps no bigger surprise during the 2016 season than Junior Guerra who went 9-3 with a 2.81 ERA, 1.13 WHIP and 4.0 WAR in 20 starts as a 30-year-old rookie.
That earned him the Opening Day start last season, but he suffered a calf injury in that game that would sideline him for nearly two months and he was never able to get things going once he returned.
Guerra eventually ended up spending the final month of the season pitching out of the bullpen where he saw his strikeout rate spike to 17.6 K/9, but it came at the cost of a 6.23 ERA. 
He'll be facing an uphill battle this spring to claim a rotation spot.
      
Pittsburgh Pirates: IF Max Moroff
A 16th-round pick in 2012, Max Moroff turned some heads last season when he posted a .909 OPS with 13 home runs and 37 RBI in 228 plate appearances for Triple-A Indianapolis.
The 24-year-old still has two minor league options left, so he's not facing the same roster crunch as a lot of the players highlighted here. But there will be a sense of urgency this spring all the same.
Aside from competing with Adam Frazier, Sean Rodriguez and Chris Bostick for a spot on the 2018 bench, there's also a wave of middle infield prospect talent rapidly approaching the majors led by Cole Tucker, Kevin Newman and Kevin Kramer.
Moroff needs to do something to separate himself from the pack or he'll risk being lost in the shuffle.
     
St. Louis Cardinals: OF Randal Grichuk*
With a .488 slugging percentage and more extra-base hits (163) than singles (158) during his time in the majors, there's no denying that Randal Grichuk is capable of being an impact offensive player.
At the same time, a .249 average and .297 on-base percentage speak to a player who has yet to develop the approach needed to sustain success at the MLB level.
With Tommy Pham, Dexter Fowler and Stephen Piscotty joined by prospects Tyler O'Neill, Harrison Bader and Magneuris Sierra—all of whom are ready for an extended look in the majors—there's a logjam in the outfield.
Grichuk is the name that "comes up the most often" in trade talks, according to Derrick Goold of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. Given his 30-homer potential, ability to play center field and team control through 2020 it's no surprise teams are looking to buy low on his upside.

Arizona Diamondbacks: C John Ryan Murphy*
The catching platoon of Chris Iannetta and Jeff Mathis was quietly terrific for the Diamondbacks this past season and undoubtedly played a significant role in the team improving from 30th (5.09) to third (3.66) in ERA.
That being said, Mathis doesn't offer much offensively (51 OPS+) and Iannetta is a free agent, so the front office has some decisions to make at the position and John Ryan Murphy will factor into those decisions in some capacity.
The 26-year-old was acquired from the Twins in July for reliever Gabriel Moya and he's currently the only other catcher on the 40-man roster, aside from utility man Chris Herrmann.
Young catchers with strong receiving skills are tough to sneak through waivers, so he'll likely either break camp as the backup or head elsewhere.
     
Colorado Rockies: C Tom Murphy
It feels like Tom Murphy squandered his chance to seize the starting catching job.
The 26-year-old hit .327/.361/.647 with 26 doubles and 19 home runs in 321 plate appearances in Triple-A in 2016 and the departure of Nick Hundley set him up perfectly to slide into the starting job this past season.
Instead, a fractured forearm sidelined him in March and he played in just 12 games at the MLB level.
Now, it looks like re-signing veteran Jonathan Lucroy is a priority for the front office and that means the best Murphy can hope for in the coming seasons is a backup role.
     
Los Angeles Dodgers: OF Trayce Thompson*
Trayce Thompson has considerable raw power and it was on full display when he slugged 11 doubles and 13 home runs in 262 plate appearances in 2016 before suffering two fractured vertebrae in his lower back at the end of July.
He was essentially a non-factor this past season, hitting .122/.218/.265 with one home runs in 55 plate appearances in the majors after posting less-than-stellar numbers in Triple-A following his return to action.
A healthy Adrian Gonzalez will likely push Cody Bellinger to left field to start the 2018 season and with Andrew Toles also back in the mix and prospect Alex Verdugo knocking on the door, it's a crowded outfield situation, to say the least.
Will Thompson survive the crunch?
     
San Diego Padres: OF Travis Jankowski
Thanks to his stellar outfield defense (8 DRS, 20.6 UZR/150) and plus wheels (30 steals), Travis Jankowski was a solid contributor for the Padres during the 2016 season.
While he began the 2017 season as the starting left fielder, a fractured foot cost him significant time and while he was sidelined, Jose Pirela (122 OPS+) turned in a breakout season that likely earned him the first crack at the left field job this coming season.
The 26-year-old Jankowski still has plenty of value thanks to his glove and he'd fit the fourth outfielder role well. That said, he could also be used as a trade chip, depending on how the rebuilding Padres view him in their long-term plans.
     
San Francisco Giants: OF Jarrett Parker*
Remember when Jarrett Parker hit six home runs in 40 at-bats as a September call-up in 2015?
Unfortunately, that was not a precursor to him seizing the everyday left field job as hoped. He's hit just .242/.323/.406 with nine home runs in 293 at-bats over the past two seasons.
The 28-year-old was a late-bloomer to begin with and his mediocre recent performance has likely cost him a shot at securing an everyday job.
Now he'll simply be looking to win a bench spot out of camp.
     
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Brooks Baseball, while any prospect rankings referenced in the article refer to Baseball America.



Dominoes are finally starting to fall across Major League Baseball this offseason, though the much-anticipated big moves have yet to go down.  
Shohei Ohtani and Giancarlo Stanton are drawing the bulk of attention in the sport. Ohtani is the free agent on every team's radar, but his list of suitors has been whittled down to seven, per Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic. It is a process that could go through Dec. 22. 
Stanton, the reigning National League MVP, is the biggest bat on the trade market. The Miami Marlins could move him at any moment, which would shake up the entire landscape of this offseason since teams will get finality on him and be able to move on free agents and other trade pieces. 
Looking at where things stand with the MLB Winter Meetings on tap next week, here are the latest trade rumors around the sport.
                
Marlins Eyeing Cardinals' Pitchers

As discussions between the Marlins and St. Louis Cardinals about Stanton continue, a pair of St. Louis players have caught Miami's eyes. 
Per Venezuelan baseball reporter Wilmer Reina (via MLB Network's Jon Morosi), the Marlins have "shown interest" in right-handed starter Michael Wacha and infielder Jose Martinez from the Cardinals. 
It's unclear what this might mean for a previous report from Morosi, stating the Marlins have agreed to a general framework for deals with the Cardinals and San Francisco Giants for Stanton, and the teams are just waiting to see if Stanton will waive his no-trade clause to be dealt. 
Martinez is an expendable piece for the Cardinals, especially if they add Stanton's bat. He's a 29-year-old who spent 10 years in the minors before getting a cup of coffee in the big leagues in 2016 and playing in 106 games last season. 
The Venezuelan native hit well with a .309/.379/.518 slash line in 2017, but he's primarily a first baseman and the Cardinals already have Matt Carpenter. 
Wacha had a decent bounceback season last year after an injury-plagued 2016. The 26-year-old had a 4.13 ERA with 158 strikeouts in 165.2 innings after posting a 5.09 ERA the previous season. 
The Cardinals don't have much depth in their starting rotation right now. Carlos Martinez remains their No. 1 starter, but Lance Lynn is a free agent and Mike Leake was traded to the Seattle Mariners last August. Adam Wainwright is 36 years old with a 4.81 ERA over the past two seasons. 
Luke Weaver showed promise with a 3.88 ERA and 72 strikeouts in 60.1 innings. Top prospect Alex Reyes had Tommy John surgery last February, so presumably he wouldn't be ready to pitch in an MLB game until perhaps May. 
If the Cardinals view Stanton as a game-changer for their lineup who will help bring them back into the playoff mix after missing out the past two seasons, paying the price of two cost-controlled players and whatever else the Marlins want won't be too steep. 
               
Red Sox Not Engaged on Jose Abreu

Even though the Boston Red Sox need to add a power hitter to their lineup, their interest in Chicago White Sox first baseman Jose Abreu appears to be muted. 
Per Peter Abraham of the Boston Globe, talks between the Red Sox and White Sox about Abreu in November were only "preliminary."
Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reported on Nov. 29 that the Red Sox were one of the teams in talks with the White Sox about acquiring Abreu. ESPN.com's Scott Lauber added the White Sox were seeking "an arm and both legs" in order to trade Abreu. 
The interest in Abreu is problematic, at least on Chicago's side, because the free-agent market has plenty of first basemen to choose from.
The Red Sox have their choice of players like Eric Hosmer, Carlos Santana and Logan Morrison for the position, instead of trading another big package of prospects to the White Sox for Abreu after last year's blockbuster for Chris Sale. 
Abreu's performance has made it so the White Sox can ask for a big return in trade talks. The Cuban star hit .304/.354/.552 with 33 home runs in 2017 and has an .883 career OPS in four MLB seasons. 
Boston has to come out of this winter with at least one big bat for the lineup. The Red Sox hit the fourth-fewest home runs (168) and had the fifth-lowest slugging percentage (.407) in MLB last season.
Abreu would have led the Red Sox in average, slugging percentage and home runs (33) and would have tied with Mookie Betts for the team lead in RBI (102).
Putting Abreu in the lineup behind Dustin Pedroia, Andrew Benintendi and Betts would make the Red Sox more formidable, especially since they are competing against a loaded New York Yankees team in the American League East. 
But this isn't the year for a team like the White Sox to be selling high on a first baseman with so many other options on the market available to choose from. 
               
Rockies Seeking Closer Help

After Greg Holland opted out of his contract at the end of last season, the Colorado Rockies became buyers for a closer heading into 2018. 
Per Morosi, one option the Rockies have explored is trading for Baltimore Orioles closer Zach Britton. 
The Orioles likely missed their window to cash in big on Britton, though it was for understandable reasons. His stock was never going to be higher than it was at the end of 2016 when he finished fourth in AL Cy Young voting and 11th in AL MVP voting. 
Since the Orioles made the playoffs as a wild card in 2016 and had hopes of making it back again last season, they weren't going to deal Britton last offseason. 
Unfortunately for the Orioles, Britton spent most of 2017 on the disabled list. The left-hander only appeared in 38 games and had a 2.89 ERA with 39 hits allowed, 29 strikeouts and 18 walks in 37.1 innings. 
The problem is compounded because Britton is projected to make $12.2 million through arbitration in 2018, per Tim Dierkes of MLB Trade Rumors. 
If the Orioles put a heavy price tag on Britton, like they did last summer, it will be difficult to move him. He's going to be 30 on Dec. 22 with a projected salary that would make him the third-highest paid reliever in MLB, per Spotrac. 
The Rockies will need to address the back of their bullpen this offseason, which could make them desperate enough to pay a steep price for someone like Britton. It's a thin free-agent market for closers, with Wade Davis being the best of a group that includes Fernando Rodney and Francisco Rodriguez. 
After making a brief playoff appearance as a wild-card team last season, the Rockies could try to be aggressive in an effort to keep pace with the Los Angeles Dodgers and Arizona Diamondbacks in the National League West. 



Each year when the Rule 5 Draft rolls around, a few of the teams in Major League Baseball look for a steal that could help their respective rosters for the next season. 
Although wading through the available prospects to find the hidden gems may be tough, there are plenty of teams who have found success during the Rule 5 Draft. 
Josh Hamilton, Johan Santana and Shane Victorino are just a few of the success stories to come out of the process.
When the selection process comes around in a week's time, teams will be hoping they can add their 2017 pick to the list of impact selections. 
        
Date: December 14
Start Time: 9 a.m. ET 
             
Format
The order for the Rule 5 Draft is the same used for the MLB Draft, with the team that has the worst record the previous year earning the No. 1 position, per MLB.com. 
Players who were signed at age 18 and have spent five years in professional baseball along with those who signed at age 19 and have been professionals for four years are eligible for the Rule 5 Draft. 
Teams can only select players if they have a space on their 40-man roster, and selections are not mandatory. If a pick is made, the drafting team has to pay $100,000 to the team it chose the player from. 
Players selected in the Rule 5 Draft will be automatically added to the team's 25-man roster for the 2018 season. If the player clears waivers at any point in 2018, he is required to be offered back to his former team in exchange for $50,000. If the former team chooses not to reacquire the player, then he's allowed to be outrighted to the minor leagues.
          
Top Prospects
Mark Appel 
The name that stands out immediately on the list of available prospects is Mark Appel, who was selected with the No. 1 pick in the 2013 MLB Draft by the Houston Astros. 
The 26-year-old righthander has bounced around in the minor leagues, with his most recent stop coming at Triple-A Lehigh Valley in the Philadelphia Phillies system.

Appel was designated for assignment after the 2017 season and no team decided to take a chance on him, which could lead to him not being chosen in the Rule 5 Draft as well. 
Regardless of what recently happened when the Phillies designated him for assignment, Appel is the most curious case of the available players since he is a former No. 1 overall pick. 
A team may take a flyer on the Stanford University product to see if he can reach his potential and make an impact in the major leagues. Sometimes it just takes the right general manager and coaching staff to get the best out of the player, or to see something a previous staff didn't.
There's no doubt Appel is the most intriguing player in the selection pool, but he could also be the riskiest given his 24-18 all-time record in the minor leagues and a career ERA of 5.06.
             
Kohl Stewart
The fourth overall pick in the 2013 MLB Draft is also available for selection in the Rule 5 Draft,
Kohl Stewart, who has spent his whole career in the Minnesota Twins organization, primarily played for Double-A Chattanooga in 2017, where he posted a 5-6 record and a 4.09 ERA in 77 innings of work. 

Stewart does have a career ERA of 3.03, but he's been hurt by injuries, including a knee problem that put him on the disabled list twice in 2017.
One of the 23-year-old's biggest strengths is his sinker, and he could be an option for a team in search of a ground-ball pitcher. 
The recent injuries could scare prospective suitors away, but Stewart's also proved he can produce when healthy. In 2016, he went 12-8 with a 2.88 ERA for Chattanooga and Single-A Fort Myers. 
              
Max Pentecost
Injuries are a familiar story for the players eligible for the Rule 5 Draft, and Max Pentecost is another high draft pick who has failed to stay healthy on his quest to make the majors. 
The No. 11 overall pick in the 2014 MLB Draft by the Toronto Blue Jays has dealt with shoulder issues throughout his career, but he could be a low-risk, high-reward pick for a team looking for help at catcher and/or first base. 

For as intriguing as a prospect the 24-year-old is, though, he hasn't played more than 74 games in a season in his career. 
In 2016, Pentecost hit .302 with 10 home runs and 41 RBI in 74 games spread across Single-A Lansing and Single-A Dunedin. In 71 games in the Florida State League with Dunedin in 2017, the right-handed hitter belted nine home runs and drove in 54 runs. 
The production seems to be there when Pentecost is healthy, but the risk for teams would be taking a player who hasn't made it past Single-A with lingering shoulder issues. 
              
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90. 
All statistics obtained from baseball-reference.com.



The San Francisco Giants aren't one player away, even if that player is Giancarlo Stanton. Or Shohei Ohtani.
But what if you change "one" to "two" and "or" to "and"? Then the Giants might have something.
It can't be Stanton or Ohtani. It has to be Stanton and Ohtani.
Then you can call the Giants a true contender for the rival Los Angeles Dodgers in the National League West.
Add Stanton or Ohtani and the Giants would have a star on a team without enough depth to win. The farm system is thin, the budget would be tight and there would a strong and legitimate argument that what they really ought to be doing is tearing down and rebuilding.
"Didn't Miami just go through this?" asked one National League scout who knows the Giants well.
The Marlins couldn't win with Stanton, even in a year when he hit 59 home runs and was the National League's Most Valuable Player. For that matter, the Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters couldn't win this year with Ohtani, although that had more to do with injuries that limited the two-way star to 65 games at the plate and just five on the mound.
Now Stanton and Ohtani are the twin prizes of baseball's winter market, with very different price tags but perhaps a similar impact. Each can basically choose his next destination, Stanton because of a no-trade clause and Ohtani because he is coming to America through the posting system.
Ohtani narrowed his field to seven teams last Saturday, per Mark Feinsand of MLB.com, and the Giants made the cut. Stanton's field is less certain, but as Buster Olney of ESPN.com reported, the Marlins allowed him to meet with the Giants and the St. Louis Cardinals last week as a prelude to possibly accepting a deal. While Stanton may well prefer a move to the Los Angeles Dodgers, it's not at all clear that the Dodgers have any willingness to take on that big a contract this winter (Stanton has $295 million and 10 years remaining).

If the Dodgers somehow added both Ohtani and Stanton, that would be interesting. But as anyone who paid attention in 2017 realizes, the Dodgers already have a great team.
If the Giants end up with both? Now that would be fascinating.
"Would be fun to watch," said another scout based in the west.
It's hard to know for sure how much chance it has of happening. Stanton has kept quiet about what he wants. Ohtani has kept even quieter, and while one scout with ties to the Japanese market predicted Tuesday that Ohtani will go to either the Giants, the Seattle Mariners or the San Diego Padres, it's worth noting that plenty of people who thought they knew considered the New York Yankees the favorites to sign him, all the way up until he eliminated them without even holding a meeting.
The Giants and Dodgers both got Ohtani meetings Monday, Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic reported on Twitter.
The Giants sent nearly their entire front office to meet with Ohtani on Monday, according to a report by Alex Pavlovic of NBC Sports Bay Area. Their Ohtani pursuit hasn't received as much national attention as that of some other teams, but they have been working hard on it. In an earlier story, Pavlovic quoted manager Bruce Bochy as calling Ohtani "special" and saying he could see him taking a regular rotation turn and also getting 300 to 400 at-bats.

The Giants need what Ohtani could give them, and also what Stanton could provide. Their 128 home runs last season were by far the fewest in the majors. Their middle of the order consisted of Buster Posey and little else. Their rotation should have Madison Bumgarner back for a full season but still needs another top arm.
"They need to upgrade their pen as well," said another American League scout.
They're not going to be able to do enough this winter to supplant the Dodgers as NL West favorites, even if they add Stanton and Ohtani. A Stanton trade could also cost them a player from their current lineup, with second baseman Joe Panik mentioned in some reports.
There would be more work to do and a limited budget to work with. It wouldn't be simple, which is why it's so easy to say the Giants aren't one player away. In a normal winter, you'd probably say they're not two players away either.
This winter is unusual with two big stars, both young enough to have a long-term impact (Stanton is 28, Ohtani 23). This winter is unusual because baseball's international signing rules severely limit how much money teams can offer Ohtani and make him a bargain the Giants and other teams can easily afford. This winter is unusual because Stanton is from California and Ohtani seems to have a preference for the West Coast (five of his seven finalists are out west).
Finally, this winter is unusual because, after a 98-loss season, the Giants have begun to worry that fans might stop packing AT&T Park on a nightly basis. If they're not going to rebuild, they badly need to show they're going for it.
Getting Stanton or Ohtani would only get them halfway there. Getting Stanton and Ohtani?
Now that would be fascinating.
           
Danny Knobler covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report.
Follow Danny on Twitter and talk baseball.



MLB's Hot Stove season has yet to produce any blockbuster trades. Perhaps what it needs is a few ideas.
Ahead lie 10 blockbuster trade concepts that are within the realm of possibility. Some exceptions aside, they involve star players on sellers who make sense for buyers with enough assets for big deals.
There's just one three-part catch: None involve Giancarlo Stanton, the San Francisco Giants or the St. Louis Cardinals. That particular section of the offseason rumor mill doesn't leave much room for imagination for now, and should come to a resolution soon. It's best to just let that play out.
Otherwise, it's on to the aforementioned 10 trade ideas, going in order from smallest to biggest blockbuster.

The Pittsburgh Pirates can no longer count themselves among the top NL Central powers, so now's a good time for them to see what they can get for Andrew McCutchen.
There may not be a better match for him than the Toronto Blue Jays.
Theoretically, the Blue Jays should take their 76-86 record in 2017 as a cue to rebuild. Instead, they indicated with their trade for 2016 All-Star Aledmys Diaz that they want to make at least one more push before Josh Donaldson, J.A. Happ and Marco Estrada hit free agency after 2018.
The club's next move should be to shore up its need for power in its outfield. Following a lost 2016, McCutchen reestablished his thump with an .849 OPS and 28 home runs in 2017. A move to Rogers Centre, which favors right-handed power, could help him improve on that performance.
The 31-year-old is under contract for one more year at a reasonable $14.5 million, giving him decent trade value for a one-year rental. A trade could be centered on well-rounded catcher Max Pentecost, who would fit in a Pirates system that needs upside behind the dish.

It's all but a given that the Washington Nationals will be NL East favorites in 2018, but they have an Achilles' heel that threatens to keep them from their goal of winning the World Series: catcher.
FanGraphs' Travis Sawchik pointed out the most obvious fix: Yasmani Grandal, who the Los Angeles Dodgers reportedly have deemed expendable, per Jon Morosi of MLB Network. He has the strike-framing skills that Matt Wieters lacks. He's also a steady supply of walks and home runs on offense.
The elephant in this room is that the Dodgers may have qualms about dealing with a key National League rival. And, obviously, vice versa. 
Still, a possible solution is a deal that would send right-hander Erick Fedde to Los Angeles.
The 24-year-old is one of Washington's top prospects and makes the grade as "MLB-ready." As Chelsea Janes of the Washington Post broke down, however, it's unclear how he fits with the team's plans for 2018. He's likely not going to back to an experimental bullpen role but isn't a cinch for the rotation either.
Fedde thus serves the Nationals better as a trade chip that could enrich the team's immediate future. The Dodgers, meanwhile, could throw him right into a pitching staff that largely eschews typical labels.

The Miami Marlins have more than just Stanton to offer the offseason trade market. Also on the chopping block is Dee Gordon.
The speedy second baseman was a toxic asset as recently as 2016, when he was hit with an 80-game ban for using performance-enhancing drugs. Then came a solid (and ostensibly clean) comeback in 2017. Gordon played in 158 games with a .716 OPS, an MLB-best 60 stolen bases and good defense.
Meanwhile, the Los Angeles Angels badly need an upgrade at second base.
The fact that they're sorely lacking in prospect talent would seem to preclude them from trading for a player of Gordon's caliber. One way around that, however, is an appeal to the Marlins' desire to cut payroll by offering to take on all of the remaining $38.9 million Gordon is owed.
That would enable a trade centered around unspectacular yet not unskilled prospects. Athletic outfielder Jahmai Jones, perhaps. Or sweet-swinging first baseman Matt Thaiss. Or fast-rising righty Jaime Barria.
If the Angels pull it off, they'd have an excellent up-the-middle trio of Gordon, Andrelton Simmons and Mike Trout, plus a supporting cast of Justin Upton, Kole Calhoun and Albert Pujols. Pretty good weapons with which to chase the reigning champion Houston Astros.

The Chicago Cubs must replenish a starting rotation that lost Jake Arrieta and John Lackey. Trouble is, they have neither unlimited payroll space nor a deep cache of prospects to use in trades.
The latter reality makes them an awkward fit for top-shelf trade targets. Danny Duffy, on the other hand, is doable.
The Kansas City Royals have the oft-injured yet talented lefty, who owns a 3.47 ERA since 2014, signed through 2021 for $60 million. But with a losing season in their wake and several stars floating on the free-agent waters, nobody's off-limits as they approach a rebuild.
"If somebody blows your doors off on something, you always have to look at it," Royals general manager Dayton Moore told Rustin Dodd of the Kansas City Star. "You always got to look at it."
The Cubs have young pitchers (e.g. Adbert Alzolay and Jose Albertos) who would fit well in a Royals system that lacks arms. The centerpiece of the deal, however, could be Kyle Schwarber. His designated hitter profile makes him an expendable asset for the Cubs and a fit for the Royals.

Along with McCutchen, Cole is another Pittsburgh cornerstone who should be on the block.
Were the Pirates to actively shop him, their first call should be to the New York Yankees.
In a normal offseason, they'd fill their need for a starting pitcher by chucking stacks of cash at a top free agent. This offseason, they're committed to getting under the luxury-tax threshold, per David Lennon of Newsday.
That's partly why the Yankees coveted Japanese two-way wunderkind Shohei Ohtani. So much for that, however. Shockingly, the Yankees didn't even make the cut for his finalists, according to Bryan Hoch of MLB.com.
They should turn to Cole if they want to blow off some steam with a Plan B.
He's an experienced starter who contended for the National League Cy Young in 2015, and pairing him with Luis Severino would give the Yankees the two hardest-throwing qualified starters of 2017. Plus, he's under club control through 2019.
The acquisition cost wouldn't be cheap, but that's where the Yankees can afford pretty much anything. Chance Adams, Justus Sheffield and Domingo Acevedo are arms that could appeal to Pittsburgh. Should they trade McCutchen, they could just as easily be drawn to Clint Frazier, who may not be needed in New York.

The Yankees adding a power arm would only heighten their biggest rival's need for a power bat.
The Boston Red Sox won 93 games and a second straight AL East title in 2017, but they'll be hard-pressed to repeat that if they don't add a masher to a lineup that produced an AL-low 168 homers.
Boston's need could attract one of the top free agents, such as J.D. Martinez or Eric Hosmer. But since their payroll is already heavy, they need to consider reasonably priced options. Such as Carlos Santana on the free-agent market or, even better, Jose Abreu on the trade market.
I already covered the prospect of the Red Sox acquiring Abreu from the Chicago White Sox in a full article, so I don't have much to add to it here. He's a good fit for Boston both in the sense that he's an established slugger (124 homers since 2014) and a tough out.
With roughly $40 million headed his way via arbitration over the next two years, Abreu also doesn't have the same trade value as former White Sox teammates Chris Sale, Adam Eaton and Jose Quintana. A deal for him ought to include just one top prospect. Fast-rising third baseman Michael Chavis is just the guy.

There's been little indication that the Dodgers are actively involved in the Stanton sweepstakes. That still isn't stopping everyone from doing their best Judge Smails impression: "Well, we're waiting."
How about Marcell Ozuna instead?
Ozuna isn't Stanton's equal as a player, but he is nonetheless fresh off a 2017 season in which he realized his outstanding potential. He had a .924 OPS, mashed a career-high 37 homers and won a Gold Glove.
Ozuna also doesn't have a 10-year, $295 million commitment hanging over his head. He's controlled for two more seasons, over which he might not even earn $30 million via arbitration. 
Compared to Stanton, he's a better fit for a Dodgers organization that seems sincerely committed to avoiding any more exorbitant payrolls. While the downside for most teams would be a huge cost in terms of prospects, the Dodgers have a deep farm system and, following their loss in the World Series, incentive to use trades to enrich their major league roster.
In sweet-swinging outfielder Alex Verdugo, the Dodgers have an ideal centerpiece for an Ozuna trade. The benefit for them, of course, would be patching their left field weakness with one of the best left fielders in the business.

Welcome to the "Hear me out" portion of the program.
Michael Fulmer is a year removed from being AL Rookie of the Year. He's also still only 24 and is under club control through 2022. However, none of these things make him exempt from the Detroit Tigers' housecleaning effort.
"We need to continue to add and acquire, and quite frankly, if we do make any more trades down the road, it’s going to be one of those young guys—maybe," Tigers GM Al Avila told FanGraphs' David Laurila, referring to Fulmer and fellow young starters Daniel Norris and Matt Boyd.
With outfielder Mickey Moniak, right-hander Sixto Sanchez and second baseman Scott Kingery headlining one of MLB's deepest farm systems, the Philadelphia Phillies are one of few teams that can afford a multi-blue-chip price tag for Fulmer.
The question, obviously, is why they would coming off a 96-loss season.
Well, their rebuild has already provided a solid core of young major leaguers. What they lack is a co-ace for Aaron Nola. Fulmer would fit the bill nicely, and adding him now would signal to the many talented free agents set to hit the 2018-19 market that there will be more than just riches to find in Philadelphia.

The Milwaukee Brewers weren't supposed to be an NL Central contender in 2017. Suddenly, there they were with an 86-76 record that put them in the wild-card hunt.
Given the depth of the Brewers' farm system, the future holds even better days. Especially if they follow through on their ambition for a No. 1 starter (via Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe) and use that depth to trade for Chris Archer.
Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times indicated the hard-throwing righty isn't unavailable as the Tampa Bay Rays seek a course correction. Between his All-Star track record and a contract that'll pay him, at most, $33.75 million through 2021, Archer is the guy they can deal for a monstrous haul of prospects. 
Milwaukee is one of few teams out there that could satisfy such a desire. Lewis Brinson, Brett Phillips, Monte Harrison and Corey Ray are talented outfielders who could interest the Rays. Right-handers Corbin Burnes and Luis Ortiz are two more top bargaining chips.
Put Archer on the Brewers, and an up-and-coming team will have a tried-and-true No. 1 starter. That's a team to watch. And, if you're the competition, one to watch out for. 

Stanton is the expensive superstar. Ozuna is the poor man's Stanton. Then there's Christian Yelich, who's Miami's most valuable trade chip for these reasons:
Due to their needs for defensive and offensive stability in their outfield and their relatively restrained spending power, the Cleveland Indians are an ideal fit for a player of this caliber.
In top-ranked catcher Francisco Mejia, Cleveland has an excellent trade centerpiece to offer Miami. If the Marlins are happy with J.T. Realmuto behind the dish, the Indians could instead offer right-hander Triston McKenzie and add on with first baseman Bobby Bradley. Or perhaps some established major leaguers, such as Bradley Zimmer or Danny Salazar.
Any combination of these players would be a huge price to pay, and such a trade would put the Indians in "all-in" mode. But after losing the World Series in 2016 and following a 102-win season with an early playoff exit in 2017, that's the mode they should be in.
                  
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs. Payroll and contract data courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.




Tony Staffieri, the chief financial officer of Rogers Communications Inc., said Tuesday the company is considering selling the Toronto Blue Jays so it can acquire other assets.
Natalie Wong of Bloomberg reported the news. The sale of the franchise is not imminent.
Rogers Communications has owned the Blue Jays since 2000.
The Blue Jays were valued at $1.3 billion by Forbes in April. Recent sale prices of professional sports franchises have largely been above Forbes estimations, and a major market like Toronto could attract a number of investors who see potential in Canada's only MLB franchise.
The Blue Jays have nine winning seasons in the last 15 years but only two postseason appearances. They went to the American League Championship Series in 2015 and 2016.
The Miami Marlins were sold to a group of investors for $1.2 billion in October. They team had been valued at $940 million by Forbes.
The Los Angeles Dodgers, who were sold in 2012, are the only other franchise to top the $1 billion mark in MLB history.



Japanese baseball sensation Shohei Ohtani met with representatives of the Texas Rangers, Seattle Mariners and Chicago Cubs on Tuesday in Los Angeles.
Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports reported the list of teams.
Ohtani, 23, is arguably the top free agent on the market. He's expected to meet with the San Diego Padres on Wednesday after meeting with the Los Angeles Angels on Monday, per Rosenthal.
A two-way threat who hits with power from the outfield and reaches triple digits on the mound, Ohtani could become the first player in modern baseball to play the field and pitch regularly. He's been perhaps the premier player in Japan doing both over the last five seasons.
New York Yankees general manager Brian Cashman told reporters Ohtani is looking for a smaller market or to play on the West Coast—or both.
"I am not yet a complete player yet, and I want to go to an environment where I can continue to get better," Ohtani said last month. "I felt the same way when I graduated from high school. And it is my strongest reason for wanting to go now." 



As the San Francisco Giants continue waiting for Giancarlo Stanton to decide if he will waive his no-trade clause, details of their trade offer to the Miami Marlins have reportedly been made public. 
According to Craig Mish of SiriusXM, the Giants' offer includes right-handed pitcher Tyler Beede, outfielder Heliot Ramos, infielder Christian Arroyo and first baseman/outfielder Chris Shaw. 
MLB Network's Jon Morosi previously reported the Marlins would accept a deal of Beede, Shaw and Joe Panik if the Giants committed to paying at least $250 million of the $295 million remaining on Stanton's contract. 
The proposed deal reported Tuesday by Mish features the Giants' top four prospects, per MLB.com. Arroyo is the highest-ranked prospect, No. 56 overall, and he made his MLB debut last season with a .192/.244/.304 slash line in 34 games. 
Morosi reported on Dec. 3 the Marlins have agreed to the "general framework" of trades proposed by the Giants and St. Louis Cardinals for Stanton, but both deals were being held up while Stanton decides if he will agree to a trade. 
Until Stanton makes his decision, nothing can happen with the Giants, Cardinals or any other team. The reigning National League MVP is a hot commodity after hitting .281/.376/.631 with 59 home runs and 132 RBI last season. 



The world champion Houston Astros reportedly explored trading for Miami Marlins slugger Giancarlo Stanton at one point, but they are no longer in the running, according to Craig Mish of SiriusXM.
Many teams have been linked to Stanton this offseason; however, the San Francisco Giants and St. Louis Cardinals are widely considered the leaders for his services, as MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported Sunday that the Marlins agreed to the framework of a deal involving Stanton with both teams.
Houston won its first World Series title in franchise history last season due largely to a stacked lineup that included American League MVP Jose Altuve, shortstop Carlos Correa and World Series MVP George Springer.
As things currently stand, the Astros have a strong outfield comprised of Marwin Gonzalez, Josh Reddick and Springer.
Gonzalez can play anywhere on the diamond, however, and Reddick struggled during the playoffs after hitting .314 with 13 home runs and 82 RBI during the regular season.
Also, designated hitter Carlos Beltran retired, which opened a potential hole in the lineup.
Stanton would have made arguably the deepest and best lineup in Major League Baseball even stronger, but the cost could have been great.
In addition to the prospects Houston would have been forced to surrender, it likely would have been asked to take on a sizable portion of the $295 million remaining on his contract.
It is easy to see why trading for Stanton may have appealed to the Astros since he hit .281 with 59 home runs and 132 RBI en route to winning the National League MVP award in 2017.
Stanton likely would have solidified the Astros as the World Series favorite entering 2018, but based on the youth and talent still on the roster, they remain a strong bet to repeat regardless.



George Springer personifies the Astros' success in so many ways. As a first-round draft pick and highly lauded prospect, he's one of the many stars who've emerged from Houston and general manager Jeff Luhnow's rebuilding efforts. In the last month of the postseason, Springer fought through a tough slump to emerge as not only a World Series champion, but the World Series MVP.
With baseball season over and the World Series trophy in-hand, Springer found himself on a platform that extended to a world of opportunities, from Saturday Night Live to Hurricane Harvey relief efforts.
On a recent visit to the Bleacher Report offices in New York, Springer sat down to talk about how his life has changed since winning the World Series, his love of Jon Snow, his passion for reggae music and the intense FIFA competitions in the Astros clubhouse.

George Springer: So, one of the guys almost dropped the World Series trophy during the parade.
      
Bleacher Report: Wait, what happened?
GS: The truck just stopped suddenly, the guy hit the brakes and he fell over the edge. We had to grab. We were like, "You drop this s--t, you're going to be in big trouble."
      
B/R: So what was your reaction?
GS: I laughed at him. But it's all good now.
        
B/R: What was the wildest thing you've seen someone do with the trophy?
GS: We made a beer funnel out of it. I watched the guys holding it up, and they poured the champagne on it and they just started to drink it.
      

B/R: What has been the most memorable thing that you've done since everything that happened?
GS: SNL was pretty wild. I met both the Bushes, which was cool. The craziest day was when we went Houston, Disney, Disney to Saturday Night Live, Saturday Night Live back to Houston, had to be at the stadium the next day to do Sports Illustrated and then I had to be at the Texans game to be with this bad boy [Springer points to the trophy]. That was the craziest 26 hours.
    
B/R: Have you taken a moment to take it all in?
GS: It's been crazy. It's hard to believe that you've played in the World Series, and then it's hard to believe you've won the World Series. On top of the World Series MVP, it's the first one in the organization's history. It makes it even sweeter.
     
B/R: And you guys are the original "Trust the Process" team.
GS: And the process worked. We got what the fans deserved.
      

B/R: You were a big part of that rebuilding process. Were you aware of the team's grand vision back then?
GS: Back in 2013, 2014, we saw what could potentially happen. … A lot of things had to happen, but there are guys who have been there the whole time. [Dallas] Keuchel, [Jose] Altuve, Marwin [Gonzalez]. Those were the guys who went through the 100-loss seasons. I went through a few down years, but the organization has come so far, it's been insane.
       
B/R: You're not really on social media. Why is that?
GS: I'm not a big technology guy. I like my privacy and being as normal as I can. I'm not an internet guy. I just don't care for it. I made a Facebook in high school and I couldn't even tell you the password to it. I couldn't even guess the password or email. I haven't been on it in four or five years. I don't like being attached to my phone. That's how I am. I'm an old-school guy. I listen to old-school music. I'm one of the only guys now when I walk out of the door, I say goodbye to my fiancee and I won't talk to her until I get home. It's how we are. It's an old-school relationship. It's not behind a phone screen.
        
B/R: So what old-school music?
GS: Depends on the day. Sometimes I go Gap Band, S.O.S. Band, or stuff from the '90s. Boyz II Men. Keith Sweat. Bell Biv Devoe. I like Drake, I like stuff like that. Future. Paul Wall. Travis Scott. I really only listen to that if I'm in the clubhouse. Otherwise, I'm a big reggae guy. That's how I am—a slow, relaxed guy. I always listened to it. I like the vibe and message. I like the feel and I stick to it.
           
B/R: What reggae do you listen to?
GS: I'm a big J Boog fan. Rebelution. Tribal Seeds. I'm a big Bob Marley fan. Landon McNamara.
      

B/R: Who's been the most unexpected person to reach out to you?
GS: I got a letter from Willie Mays. It was congratulating me on the MVP and our team, and that's one of my favorite players. That was a surreal thing to get, to get a letter from one of the best players in the game. That was absolutely crazy, and that was the first MVP trophy named after him.
         
B/R: You mention you liked playing FIFA and NHL. Are those your favorite games?
GS: I don't play FIFA as much because all of the guys from Venezuela and Cuba are way better at it than I am. I just stick to NHL. Big Call of Duty [guy]. I love the old-school style of game. Modern Warfare, World War II.
          
B/R: I assume there's a lot of competition in the clubhouse. What is that like?
GS: There's been money lost, controllers broken, friendships destroyed for 20 minutes, but after that, it's all good.
         
B/R: Who's the best FIFA player?
GS: It's a tie between Keuchel and [Yuli] Gurriel or Marwin and [Carlos] Correa. It's a four-way tie.
      

B/R: Keuchel is not someone I would've expected in that group!
GS: Keuchel gets really into it. He's a big screamer. He gets mad and then doesn't care. Gurriel, Marwin and Correa, they all just play FIFA all day at the field. Altuve tries to play FIFA. I just get beat so I don't try anymore.
        
B/R: Any hobbies off the field?
GS: I am about as relaxed a guy as it gets. I like sitting on my couch, watching shows, sitting by the fire pit. I like to play golf, but I don't have a chance to play it often. Playstation. Xbox, but I'm about as boring a guy as you'll ever meet. I could sit on this couch from the time the day starts to the time the day ends.
        
B/R: What shows do you watch?
GS: I'm watching this show Mindhunter. I just finished Ozarks.
          
B/R: Did you finish Stranger Things?
GS: No. I got...this is going to sound really bad. I got six or seven episodes in and just stopped watching it. I don't know why! Honestly, one day, we were watching it and I found Mindhunter, and I was like, "Do you want to watch this one?" We started watching and I haven't gone back. We're about to finish Bates Motel. Probably every show on Netflix…
         
B/R: ...Except for Stranger Things?
GS: Except for Stranger Things! [Laughs.] I haven't finished it yet. I plan on it at some point. I just started watching The Long Road Home. I assume we've all seen Thrones.
        
B/R: I've only seen Season 1. I don't watch it, really.
GS: What? What? You haven't seen Game of Thrones? Why not?
      

B/R: I've seen up to Ned Stark getting beheaded.
GS: You need to help yourself and watch Thrones. It's the best show ever. I don't even know how to explain this why you need to watch it. You just need to watch it. There's so much stuff that happens and twists and things. Things you don't see coming. You try to figure it out and then something crazier happens.
        
B/R: Who are your favorite characters?
GS: Big Jon Snow fan. Khaleesi is a badass 'cause she's got the dragons. The ice king is really cool. I like him. I don't really have a favorite, but I'm rooting for Jon Snow.
        
B/R: What about Jon Snow connects with you?
GS: I just like him. I want him to do good. The whole show makes him out to be this outcast and this guy nobody wants or likes. Suddenly, everyone wants his respect and attention and then he tries to do what's best for his family. I like it. I just want him to dominate everyone.
         
B/R: You're someone who's clearly confident on the field. What was the point where you felt most vulnerable?
GS: This year, I went through a tough stretch and I felt like things weren't going my way. I couldn't get anything right, and I was letting the game beat me. I was not able to separate off-field from on-field. I took home an on-field performance one time. I remember being upset at the house, and it's just a game. I was at a point where I'm letting a game dictate how I'm acting around my fiancee, and I couldn't let that happen. No matter what happens, it's a game, and I was able to switch around after that.
        
B/R: What's the biggest thing you've learned about yourself in the last few months?
GS: I can push through a lot of things, whether that's failure or success. I don't know how to explain it. I've learned how to overcome things that get thrown at you. In this game, nothing's for certain, just like life. You have to roll with the punches. If you get knocked down, you need to stand up.



At a time when the Boston Red Sox badly need a slugger, it's not encouraging that their options are dwindling.
According to Craig Mish of SiriusXM, the Red Sox are out of the running for Miami Marlins superstar Giancarlo Stanton. Dave Dombrowski, Boston's president of baseball operations, informed the media Sunday that the team is also out on two-way Japanese phenom Shohei Ohtani.
On the bright side, the free-agent market has barely been touched yet. J.D. Martinez and Eric Hosmer are the biggest stars among the available hitters. Carlos Santana lurks as the best value buy.
On the less-bright side, Martinez and Hosmer are each going to command nine-figure contracts, and Santana is more of a good hitter than a great slugger.
The Red Sox thus have incentive to think outside the box, which is probably why they're considering a trade for Chicago White Sox first baseman Jose Abreu. As Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reported:
chisox have been in active talks with red sox and others on star 1B jose abreu. boston was 1 of 4 finalists for abreu when he signed with chicago (milwaukee &amp; houston were the others).
Abreu fits the bill as the next player to go in Chicago's ongoing rebuild. He's expensive and is under club control for only two more seasons. He's also talented enough to command a good return in a trade.
The Red Sox, meanwhile, are a win-now team with an opening at first base and a humongous need for power following a year in which they finished last in the American League with 168 home runs. The 33 homers Abreu hit in 2017 would have easily cleared Mookie Betts' 24 dingers for the team lead.
That power surge was nothing new for the 30-year-old Cuba native. He's one of only eight active players to have topped 30 homers at least three times since 2014.
Before 2017, the red flag flying above Abreu's head was that his offense was on the way down following an explosive breakthrough in 2014. But in pairing an excellent .304/.354/.552 slash line with his 33 homers, he showed otherwise this past season.
The difference was an approach that featured a smaller rate of swings outside the strike zone. That didn't benefit Abreu's walk rate but did allow his hard-hit rate to soar to a height befitting of a guy with a massive 6'3", 255-pound frame:
Power of this magnitude is Abreu's main appeal to the Red Sox. But just as important as what he would bring to the team is what he wouldn't take away from it.
It's not by accident that the Red Sox finished sixth in the AL in runs despite ranking last in homers and only 11th in OPS. They couldn't take a big bite out of pitchers but could peck away due to their top-to-bottom penchant for refusing to give away easy outs. To wit, the Cleveland Indians and Houston Astros were the only AL clubs with lower strikeout rates than Boston.
That's another area where Abreu is trending in the right direction.
He got down to a 17.6 K% in 2017, well below the league average of 21.6 percent. It also tied him with George Springer for the seventh-lowest strikeout rate among the league's 41 sluggers of 30 or more homers.
Of course, the White Sox aren't simply going to give Abreu to the Red Sox.
They have an exciting future precisely because general manager Rick Hahn hasn't settled in high-profile trades of Chris Sale, Adam Eaton, Jose Quintana and a three-player package of Todd Frazier, David Robertson and Tommy Kahnle. He doesn't mean to settle for Abreu either. According to ESPN.com's Scott Lauber, one rival evaluator set his price at "an arm and both legs."
However, there is hope that Hahn could be talked down from there.

Per MLB Trade Rumors, Abreu is projected to earn $17.9 million via arbitration in 2018. That's a hefty raise on the $10.825 million he earned in 2017. Assume another raise in 2019, his final year before free agency, and his two-year cost should be in the realm of $40 million.
Abreu is awfully good, but probably not good enough to drastically outperform earnings like those. He thus has less trade value than Sale, Eaton and Quintana, whose combination of talent and cheap long-term control made them each worth several top prospects.
This is the point where Jackie Bradley Jr.'s name usually comes up, but the White Sox can and should do better than an inconsistent 27-year-old who's only three years from free agency.
How about Michael Chavis instead?
The 22-year-old third baseman is a former first-round pick who rekindled his stock with a 31-homer season at High-A and Double-A in 2017. He's a top-100 prospect for Baseball America (No. 96), MLB.com (No. 92) and us right here at Bleacher Report (No. 96). Even if those specific numbers don't qualify him as good enough for a straight-up-swap, they're good enough for him to be a centerpiece of a bigger deal.
A trade of Chavis would take away yet another top prospect from a Red Sox system that's lost quite a few since Dombrowski arrived in 2015. However, Chavis is blocked by Rafael Devers at third base anyway. The White Sox, who have a long-term opening at the hot corner, need him more.
Ultimately, the ball is in the White Sox's court. They have no need to rush a trade of Abreu and also have enough cash to keep paying him in the meantime. They can wait as long as they like for a suitable trade offer.
Nobody matches up with them like the Red Sox, however. And since the Red Sox indeed have other options, it wouldn't be the worst thing for the White Sox to deal sooner rather than later.
          
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs.




Giancarlo Stanton is on the trading block. Maybe you've heard, or maybe you reside under a hunk of metamorphic matter.
The Miami Marlins want to shed payroll under a new ownership group fronted by Derek Jeter. Stanton is owed up to $295 million through 2028, though he could opt out after 2020.
He's also fed up with losing.
"I don't want to rebuild," the recently minted National League MVP said in September, per FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman. "I've lost for seven years."
Stanton and the 59 home runs he clubbed in 2017 are dangling as the biggest fish of the offseason. His full no-trade clause adds a wrinkle, but the chances of him wearing a different uniform next season are somewhere between high and certain.
While we await a decision from Miami and its generational slugger, here's a look at why the top four rumored suitors will and won't consummate the winter's biggest blockbuster.

The Boston Red Sox have won two straight American League East crowns and are in an unambiguous win-now phase. They also finished dead last in the AL in home runs in 2017 and were bounced in the division series.
It's no surprise, then, that Boston dipped its toe in the Stanton sweepstakes, per Ken Rosenthal of the Athletic. 
The Red Sox have a lot to offer: a rich history, an exciting young core led by outfielders Mookie Betts and Andrew Benintendi, a winning track record and a chance to take aim at the Green Monster.
After toiling in the gaudy, uninspiring confines of Marlins Park, Fenway and the storied Red Sox/New York Yankees rivalry would be a revelation for Stanton.
That said, Boston was always a long shot to acquire Stanton, given his preference to play on the West Coast, per MLB.com's Jon Paul Morosi. On Sunday, Craig Mish of SiriusXM reported discussions between Boston and Miami were no longer active. 
That doesn't mean they can't be rekindled. However, as Peter Abraham of the Boston Globe reported, Red Sox president of baseball operations Dave Dombrowski is hesitant to raid his depleted farm system. The Red Sox will address their power deficiency, but they'll probably do it via free agency.

The St. Louis Cardinals missed the postseason in 2017, but they've got a solid pitching staff and a lineup littered with quality hitters. They just need a big bopper to tie it all together. 
Stanton could be that bopper, and the Cards have pushed hard. 
The club met with Stanton and his representatives and made "a compelling offer," per Derrick Goold of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. 
The Cardinals don't play out west, but they do offer a winning culture, a famously loyal fanbase and the opportunity to get back onto the October stage. 
Plus, according to Goold, the Redbirds came away from the Stanton meeting "convinced their offer to the Marlins is the strongest, in terms of prospects and possibly in terms of money taken on."

Again, all signs point to Stanton wanting to play on the West Coast. Whatever they surrender in cash and minor league chips, the Cardinals can't transport Busch Stadium to the edge of the Pacific Ocean.
Manager Mike Matheny's bunch is not a juggernaut, either. Yes, the Cards are in the NL postseason picture, but even with Stanton, they'd remain a tick below the Chicago Cubs, Washington Nationals and Los Angeles Dodgers in the Senior Circuit pecking order. 
If it were up to Miami, Stanton would go to the club offering the best prospects and most salary relief.
Stanton holds the keys with his no-trade clause, however, and unless he suddenly falls in love with the Gateway Arch, there may be nothing St. Louis can do to land him.

Stanton was born in Southern California and played high school ball in Sherman Oaks, fewer than 20 miles from Dodger Stadium.
Not surprisingly, Los Angeles tops Stanton's list of preferred trade destinations, per Morosi. 
In addition to a homecoming, Stanton would join a loaded club in a massive market that got within a win of a Commissioner's Trophy in 2017. As Bleacher Report's Zachary D. Rymer outlined, Stanton could join forces with Dodgers first baseman/outfielder Cody Bellinger to create a scary, Maris/Mantle-esque 100-homer duo.
If Stanton had a yes-trade clause in addition to his no-trade clause, this deal would surely be done.

As good of a fit as it is on paper, the Dodgers don't appear to be making an aggressive push for Stanton.
The Cardinals and San Francisco Giants have made formal offers. As for Los Angeles, here's the latest, per Morosi: 
"...the Dodgers and Marlins were still in contact regarding Stanton, but they have not made progress toward a deal, according to one source. The Dodgers are enamored with Stanton's power, but they are concerned about the luxury-tax implications of trading for him."
L.A. boasts the game's highest payroll, per Spotrac, and ample MiLB trade chips. It's possible executive Andrew Friedman is lying in the weeds and waiting to yank Stanton away from the Cards and rival Giants at the last moment.
Right now, though, there's little indication the Dodgers are ready to squeeze the trigger.

The Giants lost 98 games last season en route to a humbling cellar-dwelling finish. They also finished last in the NL in home runs and OPS.
San Francisco isn't interested in a rebuild, however, and is instead looking to retool the roster and keep its contending window open a bit longer.
The Giants have made a formal offer for Stanton. They're situated on the West Coast, even if they're a few clicks north of SoCal.
Bad as they were in 2017, they've got a solid core anchored by franchise catcher Buster Posey and stud left-hander Madison Bumgarner. And they're on the list of finalists to land two-way Japanese star Shohei Ohtani, per MLB.com's Mark Feinsand. 
There is a scenario where the Giants make another even-year run at their sparkling waterfront ballpark in 2018, and Stanton could be a huge part of it.
Plus, he'd have a ton of chances to hit that huge Coke bottle in left-center field. 

General manager Bobby Evans can sell Stanton on the Giants' recent championship runs and a steady clubhouse culture led by manager Bruce Bochy.
He can't magically turn San Francisco into L.A., however, nor can he totally erase the Giants' awful 2017 showing.
Stanton said he's tired of losing. Why would he go to a team that narrowly avoided 100 defeats?
Like the Dodgers, the Giants are bumping up against the luxury tax. They have a boatload of future salary commitments and a relatively weak farm system. Stanton could get them back to relevance in 2018, but this is a franchise that may shift into rebuilding mode in the near-ish future. 
If Miami likes the Giants' offer, the Dodgers don't intercede and Stanton is truly determined to get out of Florida, this could happen. Then again, that's a lot of ifs.
   
All statistics and contract information courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com unless otherwise noted.



The Giancarlo Stanton saga may be nearing its conclusion. All that's left is Stanton giving his OK to choose his next destination.
Jon Paul Morosi and Joe Frisaro of MLB.com reported the St. Louis Cardinals and San Francisco Giants each have a framework in place to trade for the Miami Marlins slugger. Miami has given both teams permission to speak with Stanton, who has a full no-trade clause.
The Giants are reportedly offering prospects outfielder/first baseman Chris Shaw, right-hander Tyler Beede and outfielder Heliot Ramos. Second baseman Joe Panik could also be involved in the deal. Morosi previously reported the Marlins were willing to take a package of Panik, Shaw and Beede provided the Giants pick up $250 million of the $295 million remaining on Stanton's contract.
The Marlins are also interested in Cardinals pitching prospects Jack Flaherty and Sandy Alcantara. It's unclear if either or both prospects are on the table in St. Louis' offer.
Stanton, 28, hit .281/.376/.631 with 59 home runs and drove in 132 runs in 2017. His 59 home runs were the most in an MLB season since Sammy Sosa hit 61 and Barry Bonds set the all-time record with 73 in 2001. He became the first Marlins player in franchise history to win the National League MVP.
Miami is looking to trade Stanton almost entirely for financial reasons. New ownership, spearheaded by former Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter, has set a goal of turning the Marlins into a financially viable franchise. The team has lost millions of dollars in recent years under previous ownership.
"We're trying to build an organization that's sustainable over time," Jeter told reporters. "I don't like the world 'rebuild' because I think a lot of negativity comes with that. But we're trying to build something here. And we will build something. But it will take time, and there has to be patience."
Stanton's contract is set to run through the 2028 season, paying him at least $25 million annually. The Marlins have avoided paying the bulk of the 13-year, $325 million contract he signed in 2015 and are looking to get out from under as much of it as possible.
"It's an interesting feeling and situation for me," Stanton told reporters in October. "This is the only place I've known, but I also understand the business part of it and the direction the new ownership wants to go.
"The thoughts [this week] were up and down. ... Everything that's going on, how is this going to turn out, what's going to happen with my team and my teammates and me, etc. It's a lot of thoughts going on, but luckily I don't have to worry about playing at 7 o'clock every night [with] those thoughts.”
Stanton's preferred destination is the Los Angeles Dodgers, but it appears there has not been any significant progress made on a deal. The Dodgers and Marlins remain in contact. However, the MLB.com report indicates the Dodgers are wary of potential luxury tax implications of adding Stanton's salary. 



Even if the 2018 Major League Baseball season started tomorrow, the New York Yankees could still go out and improve on a 2017 season that ended at the doorstep of the World Series.
This, despite how their only offseason move of note has been finding a new manager.
The job that belonged to Joe Girardi for a decade now belongs to Aaron Boone, a man with baseball bloodlines and a loaded resume of baseball achievements. Although managerial experience isn't among the latter, the hope is he can put the Yankees in the World Series much like he once did in 2003. 
A quick glance at the Yankees' payroll makes it look like their next move should be doing what they usually do during the winter. They are only projected to spend $156 million in 2018, $40 million short of where they opened 2017. That's license to go full-Steinbrenner on the free-agent and trade markets.
But, nah.
New York's mission is to get under the luxury tax, which precludes it from its typical brand of lavish spending. Most winters, that would be a problem. Here's a look at why it's not this time around.
             
They Are Owed Wins
With a few exceptions—notably CC Sabathia, Todd Frazier, Matt Holliday, Michael Pineda and Jaime Garcia—the Yankees are set to bring back the same roster that produced 91 wins in 2017.
That's a solid sign in and of itself, and a great sign in context of how many games the 2017 Yankees should have won. Baseball Reference put their true record at 100-62. FanGraphs did that one better, putting it at 101-61.
These aren't concoctions of eccentric science. They are concoctions based on how many runs the Yankees scored and allowed. Their good-not-great record was backed by a run differential that was bested only by the Cleveland Indians', per ESPN.com.
The implication is that even a repeat of 2017 could lead to better results for the Yankees in 2018. They need not load up their roster with additional stars. Simply rounding it out with enough depth should be good enough.
But there is still the matter of how the Yankees will materialize their outstanding wins. What should help is...
           
Boone's Bullpen and Clubhouse Wizardry
When it comes down to how, exactly, the Yankees fumbled their shot at a 100-win season, the best answer is they struggled to finish close games. To wit, they went just 18-26 in one-run games. 
The irony is they were precisely the kind of team that should have dominated such contests.
Nothing secures close games like elite relievers, and the Yankees had more than their share of those. Their bullpen only finished third in ERA but first in OPS allowed and, according to FanGraphs, wins above replacement.
Barring a trade, the gang is due to return in full in 2018. Although Chad Green, Chasen Shreve and Tommy Kahnle are regression candidates, David Robertson is as steady as they come and Aroldis Chapman and Dellin Betances could both be a lot better than they were in 2017.

One reason this bullpen's results didn't match its ability in 2017 is what Joel Sherman of the New York Post referred to as a "panicky bullpen strategy" on the part of Girardi. Boone sounds like just the guy to bring more tact to that part of the job.
"I find myself managing games all the time and thinking about strategies and how I would handle different situations," he said, per Bryan Hoch of MLB.com. "Certainly, it's fair to question my experience in actually doing the job, but I would say in a way I've been preparing for this job for the last 44 years."
Boone is also lauded for how he communicates and connects with people. That promises to be another welcome change from Girardi, whose struggle to connect with his players was a fundamental element of his ousting. A flip from one extreme to another won't raise the Yankees' overall talent level but should help make them equal to the sum of their parts.
Elsewhere, there's how...
           
Their Starting Pitching Can Be Better
It may have felt like Luis Severino was their only dependable starter at any given moment, but Yankees starters did well enough to finish with a 3.98 ERA in 2017. Only four teams did better.
Up next is the doable task of improving on that performance.
Severino will be back, and there's little reason to expect worse from him. He may get by on electric stuff and little else, but he proved something in 2017: The grind of a full major league season won't necessarily stop him from staying healthy or from maintaining his stuff.
After Severino is Masahiro Tanaka. In light of the 4.74 ERA he put up in 2017, it looks like he did himself a favor by not opting out of his contract. And considering how he finished the year with a 3.12 ERA over his final 19 starts, however, he did the Yankees a favor by not opting out.

New York can also look forward to a full season of Sonny Gray. Acquired in a July blockbuster with the Oakland Athletics, he managed a 3.72 ERA in 11 starts thereafter. Not his best work but in line with his track record as an above-average starter.
Then there's Jordan Montgomery, who's fresh off an overlooked rookie season that featured a 3.88 ERA in 29 starts. Even if some regression is in order, he still makes the grade as a good No. 4 starter.
Shohei Ohtani, best known as Japan's Babe Ruth, would have been a dandy of a choice for the open spot in New York's rotation. Alas, Hoch reported Sunday that the Yankees are out of the running for him.
On the bright side, Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reported that they have Sabathia in mind for a Plan B. The veteran was a stabilizing force in 2015 and 2016, yet could be had at a reasonable rate for 2018.
The Yankees also have in-house options to pin their hopes on. Among their best prospects are three pitchers who will be ready to contribute in 2018: right-handers Chance Adams and Domingo Acevedo and left-hander Justus Sheffield.
With their pitching squared away, the Yankees would only need their offense to do its part. On that note...
         
Their Offense Can Be As Good, If Not Better
The Yankees finished 2017 ranked second in MLB in runs and first in home runs. That doesn't leave much room for upward mobility.
Even Aaron Judge may be powerless to push the offense higher. It would be asking a lot of him to repeat the 1.049 OPS and 52 homers that won him the AL Rookie of the Year even if he was fully healthy. Following surgery on his left shoulder, it's asking too much.
Still, a Judge regression wouldn't be the end of the world for this offense.
Gary Sanchez and Greg Bird could pick up whatever slack Judge lets out. The former was good enough to post an .876 OPS with 33 homers in 2017, but his excellent finish (a .944 OPS and 17 homers over 50 games) indicates he still has unexplored upside. The latter was a forgotten man who re-emerged with a .910 OPS and 11 homers over 42 games (postseason included) at the end of the year.

The Yankees offense also stands to get a boost from full seasons from 2017 breakout star Aaron Hicks, who was limited to 88 games, and veteran second baseman Starlin Castro, who was limited to 112 games. It would also help if Didi Gregorius stayed his course and matured even further as an offensive threat.
The big question is what the Yankees will get out of the designated-hitter and third-base slots that were offensive black holes for much of 2017.
However, there are in-house options to fall back on here as well. Clint Frazier is a big-time sleeper coming off an unspectacular rookie season. Gleyber Torres will be arguably baseball's best prospect if he recovers well from Tommy John surgery. Not to be overlooked is Miguel Andujar, who packs a promising bat at third base.
The Yankees will be heard from before the offseason is over. Everyone can count on that. But even as things stand, the cheapest Yankees team in years should be one of the best Yankees teams in years.
             
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Baseball Savant. Payroll data courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.




Baseball's annual winter meetings kick off on Dec. 10, and the hot stove is lukewarm at best.
That's partly because everyone is waiting for the Miami Marlins to move Giancarlo Stanton and his 59 home runs. It's also because several top free agents are represented by superagent Scott Boras, who is notorious for dragging negotiations into the new year.
Eventually, the floodgates will open. Contracts will be inked. Swaps will be consummated.
In the meantime, here are seven deal-or-no-deal trade predictions, based on the latest rumors and a healthy dollop of gut feeling. This won't all be settled at the winter meetings, but what is the offseason for if not speculation?
Want to know the possible fate of a Los Angeles Dodgers catcher, a Pittsburgh Pirates outfield icon, the South Beach slugger and more? Read on.

The Detroit Tigers initiated their overdue rebuild in the summer of 2017, jettisoning key pieces such as outfielder Justin Upton and ace Justin Verlander.
They need to continue the process into the winter, and there's no more obvious trade candidate than second baseman Ian Kinsler.
The 35-year-old won a Gold Glove in 2016 and hit 22 home runs with 14 stolen bases last season. He also posted a ho-hum .236 batting average and has one year of team control remaining, at $11 million.
He won't net a king's ransom in prospects and could thus be an ideal fit for the Los Angeles Angels.
The Halos need help on offense after ranking last in the American League with a .712 OPS, despite the presence of Mike Trout. Their second base depth chart is topped by 25-year-old Kaleb Cowart and his .197 career average.
They've dealt with Detroit before, including the trade that sent Upton from the Motor City to Anaheim. According to Anthony Fenech of the Detroit Free Press, the Angels "have been having extensive internal discussions" about Kinsler. 
Los Angeles doesn't feature any of MLB.com's top 100 prospects, but names such as first baseman Matt Thaiss and outfielder Jahmai Jones could move the needle for the Tigers.

Amidst the incessant chatter surrounding Stanton, another name emerged as a possible trade chip from the Marlins: second baseman Dee Gordon.
On Nov. 20, Craig Mish of SiriusXM reported Gordon's name had come up during Stanton trade discussions between Miami and the San Francisco Giants.
On the surface, it makes some sense if the Giants include second baseman Joe Panik in their package, as Mish suggested. 
Gordon hit .308 with 60 stolen bases in 2017 and is one of the game's most dynamic table-setters. He's also owed at least $37.9 million through 2020. That's not a back-breaker. However, as MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported, the Marlins would expect the Giants to take on at least $250 million of the $295 million remaining on Stanton's contract.
For a San Francisco team already burdened with hefty future payroll commitments, that's some dicey math.
Gordon could be traded elsewhere, but the demand for second basemen isn't high, and a cheaper target like Kinsler—who comes without Gordon's performance-enhancing drug baggage—would probably be more appealing to the few suitors out there.

With the taste of champagne fresh in their mouths, the world champion Houston Astros enter 2018 as one of the most complete teams in baseball.
There is one area, however, where the 'Stros require an upgrade: the bullpen.
Houston relievers ranked 17th in baseball with a 4.27 ERA in the regular season. The 'pen was exposed during the postseason, with closer Ken Giles posting an 11.74 ERA. Manager A.J. Hinch turned to his starting pitchers in key late-inning situations, and it worked
As they embark on their title defense, the Astros need reinforcements. 
There are experienced closers on the market—including Wade Davis and Greg Holland—and Houston could target one.
If general manager Jeff Luhnow and Co. go the trade route, they may zero in on San Diego Padres left-hander Brad Hand, whom the club reportedly pursued in July. 
The 27-year-old was an All-Star in 2017 on the strength of a 2.16 ERA and 104 strikeouts in 79.1 innings. He's under team control through 2019, meaning the rebuilding Friars can demand a rich return.
Even after jettisoning a trio of top prospects to acquire Verlander at the 2017 trade deadline, the Astros have a deep farm system. 
Outfielder Kyle Tucker and right-hander Forrest Whitley should be untouchable, at least for Hand. A couple other names from the Astros' top 10 prospects, via Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter, such as first baseman/outfielder Yordan Alvarez and right-hander Hector Perez should be enough to pry the stud southpaw away from San Diego.

Jose Abreu put together a quietly stellar season for the rebuilding Chicago White Sox in 2017, hitting .304 with a .906 OPS, 33 homers and 102 RBI.
The Cuban slugger turns 31 in January and will get progressively more expensive in his three remaining arbitration years.
Hence rumors that the White Sox may be shopping him. The Boston Red Sox need power after finishing dead last in the American League in home runs. Plus, Boston has a hole at first base.
It seems like a fit, but an unnamed evaluator told ESPN.com's Scott Lauber that Chicago is asking "an arm and a leg" for Abreu. At the same time, as Peter Abraham of the Boston Globe reported Red Sox GM Dave Dombrowski may be loathe to further deplete Boston's already heavily thinned farm system.
"I still think we have enough depth if we want to [make a trade]. But we have to be careful at some point. We traded a lot of young guys," Dombrowski said, per Abraham.
There could be other takers for Abreu, but the free-agent shelves feature several enticing first basemen, including Eric Hosmer, Carlos Santana, Yonder Alonso, Logan Morrison and Lucas Duda.
Not all of those names are Abreu-caliber. It's enough supply to staurate the market, however, and keep Abreu on the South Side.

Yasmani Grandal was an All-Star in 2015 and picked up stray MVP votes in 2016. The Los Angeles Dodgers catcher hit 22 home runs in 2017 and rated as the game's second-best pitch framer, per StatCorner. 
Still, Grandal ceded playing time to Austin Barnes, who started 13 of the Dodgers' 15 postseason games behind the dish.
Now, according to MLB Network's Morosi, Los Angeles is listening to offers for Grandal, who is entering his final season of arbitration eligibility.
Enter the Oakland A's, a possible suitor name-dropped by MLB.com's Manny Randhawa. Yes, Oakland is in the midst of another sell-off after trading top pieces such as right-hander Sonny Gray in July and dealing infielder Ryon Healy to the Seattle Mariners in November.
The A's are thin at catcher, however. Bruce Maxwell is probably the best option on the roster, and he hit .237 in 76 games last season and was arrested in early November on gun charges.
The A's won't gut their retooled farm system to swing a trade, but assuming L.A.'s asking price is reasonable, executive Billy Beane would surely covet 29-year-old Grandal's power and ability to handle and mentor Oakland's young arms. 

After a disappointing 2016 season, Andrew McCutchen's name churned through the rumor mill last winter. Ultimately, the Pittsburgh Pirates held on to the five-time All-Star and 2013 National League MVP. 
McCutchen rewarded them with a bounce-back campaign, as he hit .279 with 28 home runs and an .849 OPS.
With the Bucs at a crossroads between contention and a possible rebuild, McCutchen trade talk is again bubbling up.
The Giants have been in contact with the Pirates and may view McCutchen as Plan B if a Stanton deal falls through, per MLB Network's Morosi. McCutchen represents a cheaper, shorter-term commitment. He's owed $14.5 million in 2018 and will become a free agent after that.
Still, there's no clear indication the Pirates are ready to blow up the ship just yet. If they're sinking in the standings come July, McCutchen could be dealt as a deadline rental.
For now, the safe money is on him staying put.

There's a 6'6", 245-pound logjam gumming up the market, and until the Marlins move him, we might not see much action on the trade and free-agent fronts.
If and when Stanton is dealt, other dominoes will begin to fall. Teams that whiff will move on to contingencies. Clubs impacted by where he lands will make counter-moves. 
So where will the Marlins masher go?
On Saturday, FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman cast doubt on the rumored possibility of Stanton donning a St. Louis Cardinals uniform. Talks with the Red Sox are no longer active, per SiriusXM's Mish. 
The Los Angeles Dodgers loom as an ideal destination for Stanton, a Southern California native. So far, however, the Dodgers don't appear to be mounting an aggressive pursuit.
That leaves the Giants, who have made a formal offer and met with Stanton and his representatives, per Heyman. 
San Francisco could sorely use Stanton's pop as it tries to rebound from a disastrous 98-loss season. The Giants aren't in SoCal, but they satisfy Stanton's preference to play on the west coast, per Morosi.
This deal could come back to bite the Orange and Black. At the least, it'll deplete an already-weak farm system and place a heavy burden on San Francisco's payroll.
If the Giants want to return to relevance and maintain contact with the archrival Dodgers, however, they need to reel in a big fish.
They don't get much bigger than Stanton.
   
All statistics and contract information courtesy of Baseball-Reference unless otherwise noted.



Shohei Ohtani has no shortage of suitors as he prepares for his MLB arrival, but the New York Yankees are apparently out of the race to land the Japanese star.
According to MLB.com's Bryan Hoch, Ohtani's representatives informed the Yankees front office the franchise won't be afforded the opportunity to have an in-person meeting with the 23-year-old.
Hoch also reported Yankees general manager Brian Cashman believes teams on the West Coast may be leading the pack:
Re: Ohtani... Cashman said that if he was a West Coast team in a smaller market, he’d be excited right now.
Based on that, it comes as little surprise the Seattle Mariners and San Francisco Giants are still in contention for Ohtani, per Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan. The San Diego Padres are also in the mix, according to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports. The Mariners are considered the "clear-cut front runners" to land Ohtani, according to Bob Nightengale of USA Today.
However, Ohtani eliminated the Minnesota Twins from his available options, according to Heyman. Meanwhile, Boston Red Sox president of baseball operations Dave Dombrowski confirmed the Red Sox are out of the running as well, per the Boston Globe's Pete Abraham.
USA Today's Jorge L. Ortiz reported last month Ohtani may prioritize his success on the field over his comfort level away from it. Ortiz spoke to sources who said the "way his talents are used" is of greater significance than the whereabouts of his next team.
Between the Yankees, Twins and Red Sox, three playoff teams from 2017 are exiled from the Ohtani sweepstakes.
According to the Athletic's Ken Rosenthal, the Oakland Athletics are no longer in the hunt, which takes one West Coast franchise out of the picture.
Playing in Seattle or San Francisco, Ohtani would be a little closer to home than he would in the Midwest or on the East Coast. Both cities would also likely subject him to less scrutiny than he'd receive in New York or Boston.
Smaller-market teams are generally priced out of signing the best free agents during the offseason, so Ohtani's decision to spurn MLB's biggest markets could shake up the league's postseason landscape over the next few years.



The Miami Marlins have agreed to the "general framework" of trades with the St. Louis Cardinals and San Francisco Giants to move 2017 National League MVP Giancarlo Stanton, MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported Sunday.
According to Morosi, the deals are pending Stanton's approval. The right fielder has a full no-trade clause as part of the 13-year, $325 million contract he signed with Miami in 2014.
ESPN's Buster Olney reported Friday that the Giants met with Stanton's representatives in Los Angeles on Thursday. Olney also reported that Stanton's representatives received approval to meet with the Cardinals.
Since Stanton could veto any trade, Morosi noted the 28-year-old holds all the cards:
If Stanton had met with #SFGiants and #STLCards without trade framework already in existence, #Marlins would have risked losing leverage if Stanton agreed to move forward with one and not the other. @MLB @MLBNetwork
Worth saying again: Giancarlo Stanton is in control here, due to full no-trade. If he wants to wait on the #Dodgers, he can — even if that means saying no to everyone else this offseason and revisiting in July/August or next winter. @MLB @MLBNetwork
Morosi reported Thursday the Marlins were prepared to accept Giants second baseman Joe Panik and top prospects Tyler Beede and Chris Shaw in return for Stanton as long as San Francisco was willing to assume at least $250 million of the remaining $295 million on Stanton's contract.
On Sunday, Craig Mish of SiriusXM reported pitcher Sandy Alcantara is at the center of St. Louis' offer and the Cardinals' deal includes more money than that of San Francisco. Mish also noted any trade is "expected to be finalized" in the next two to three days.
However, any deal with the Cardinals may prove to be a nonstarter.
FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman reported there's some doubt whether Stanton would waive his no-trade clause to go to St. Louis. Heyman cited a source who said the Giants would "100 percent" be Stanton's preferred choice if he had to pick between them and the Cardinals.
Of course, that shouldn't preclude the Marlins from evaluating all their options.
Miami's season ended a little over two months ago, so the team has acted quickly to try to move its best player. As Morosi highlighted, though, Stanton can all but cease ongoing trade negotiations if he wants another team to enter the mix.



The Boston Red Sox are out of the Giancarlo Stanton sweepstakes.
Craig Mish of SiriusXM reported the Red Sox are no longer engaged in trade talks with the Miami Marlins for Stanton, noting they were a long shot from the beginning.
Stanton, 28, is the reigning National League MVP. He hit .281/.376/.631 with 59 home runs and 132 RBI in 2017, making him the first player with at least 59 homers since 2001.
Despite being the face of the Marlins franchise and the most feared slugger in baseball, Miami is looking to move Stanton for financial reasons. He's owed $295 million over the remainder of a 13-year, $325 million contract he signed in 2014. The deal runs through 2028 and pays him at least $25 million each season.
The Marlins' new ownership group, spearheaded by former New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter, is looking to cut payroll as it rebuilds the franchise. Jeter told reporters last month the Marlins are "an organization that's been losing money for quite some time, so we have to turn that around."
Stanton has been aware for months he has likely played his last game for Miami.
"It's an interesting feeling and situation for me," Stanton told reporters in November. "This is the only place I've known. But I also understand the business part of it, the direction that new ownership wants to go. ...
"The thoughts were up and down. They were pretty bipolar of everything that's going on, how [the MVP] was going to turn out and what's going to happen to my team and my teammates ... and me."
The Red Sox are a playoff team with a solid outfield, so Stanton would have been a luxury acquisition more than a necessity. They'll likely look to make moves to shore up their infield and pitching staff this offseason.



There has been an unusual calm among all 30 Major League Baseball teams heading into the 2017 Winter Meetings, which get underway Sunday.
If there's going to be a storm of activity, it will begin when representatives for teams, agents and players all converge at the Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, Florida. Marquee free agents will begin to sign deals, and trade activity will intensify.
The trade market this offseason looks to be where the intrigue rests, with an MVP potentially being dealt and players who need a change of scenery being put on the market to try salvaging their career.
Looking ahead to MLB's annual offseason extravaganza, here are the most notable trade rumblings to keep an eye on.
           
Marlins Strong-Arming Stanton

Giancarlo Stanton, who became the first Miami Marlins player to win an MVP award in 2017, seemingly has all the power in trade talks by virtue of having a full no-trade clause in his contract.
Because the Marlins' new ownership group appears set on starting over from scratch, the franchise is reportedly taking a strong-arm approach in an effort to get Stanton to accept a trade quickly.
Per Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald, the Marlins have told Stanton if he refuses to accept a trade that their other top players would be moved to bring the payroll down.
Spencer noted within that report Miami's goal is to get its payroll around $90 million for 2018, with Stanton being owed $25 million next season.
Per Cot's Baseball Contracts, excluding pre-arbitration and arbitration-eligible players, the Marlins have a total of eight players under guaranteed contracts in 2018. Martin Prado, Edinson Volquez, Dee Gordon and Wei-Yin Chen are the other names on Miami's roster owed at least $10 million next season.
MLB.com's Jon Paul Morosi and Ben Weinrib reported the St. Louis Cardinals have made an offer for Stanton. Craig Mish of SiriusXM reported the San Francisco Giants made a trade proposal to the Marlins for Stanton and Gordon.
The Boston Red Sox have also been connected to Stanton, but Evan Drellich of NBC Sports Boston reported they are an "extreme long shot" to pull off a deal for the National League MVP because of Miami's asking price and the Red Sox's unwillingness to take on Stanton's full contract.
At 28, Stanton's stock should be higher than ever. He's coming off a career year at a great age to keep putting up big numbers and would drastically improve any lineup with his unique power-hitting ability.
The Marlins' problem is the previous owner, Jeffrey Loria, gave Stanton a 13-year contract that still has 10 years and $295 million remaining. Stanton has also had problems staying healthy, only reaching 140 games played three times in the past seven seasons.
                
Red Sox In on Jose Abreu

With the Red Sox needing to make lineup upgrades and not wanting to pay the price for Stanton, Chicago White Sox first baseman Jose Abreu could be a nice alternative.
Per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, the Red Sox are among the teams that have had talks with the White Sox about Abreu.
There's no way Boston can come out of this offseason without making at least one move for a power hitter. The team's offense scored 93 fewer runs, hit 40 fewer home runs and slugged 54 fewer points last season than it did in 2016.
David Ortiz's retirement played a huge role in that drop. As did injuries to Hanley Ramirez, Dustin Pedroia and Jackie Bradley Jr.
Boston has a vacancy at first base, with last year's starter, Mitch Moreland, being a free agent and Ramirez best suited for designated-hitter duties at this stage of his career.
Abreu would have been the Red Sox's best hitter by far in 2017. His 140 OPS+ was 32 points higher than any regular in Boston's lineup last season (Mookie Betts, 108), and his .552 slugging percentage was 93 points higher than Betts' .459 mark.
The White Sox have embraced their rebuild by trading away seemingly every veteran asset they have had over the past 12 months. Abreu is 30 and likely won't be a highly productive hitter by the time their prospects get them back to relevance in the AL over the next three years.
Abreu has added value for teams because he's two years away from free agency and heading into his second year of arbitration.
Red Sox president of baseball operations Dave Dombrowski is as aggressive as any front-office leader in MLB when it comes to making deals he think will improve the big league club. He's made blockbuster deals for Craig Kimbrel, Drew Pomeranz and Chris Sale over the past two years.
The New York Yankees' rise back to prominence last season also puts pressure on Boston's front office to take bold risks now in an effort to maximize the window of contention for its core group of players.
Abreu is almost too good of a fit for what the Red Sox need for a deal not be consummated at some point in the coming weeks.
              
Nationals Watching Jordan Zimmermann

The Detroit Tigers are another AL Central team going through a rebuild, but they are saddled with bad contracts that are making it impossible to fully embrace the long-term future like the White Sox have.
Per Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe, the Washington Nationals could help the Tigers out by bringing back Jordan Zimmermann to fill out their rotation.
Cafardo noted the Nationals "have some interest" in Zimmermann.
That is vague, likely for a couple of reasons. The first being Zimmermann's performance, which ballooned last season with a 6.08 ERA and 204 hits allowed in 160 innings over 29 starts.
Beyond what Zimmermann did on the field, though, is what he's still owed on the contract he signed with the Tigers prior to the 2016 season. The 31-year-old right-hander will make $74 million over the next three years.
If the Tigers are going to trade Zimmermann, it will likely require them to kick in a significant amount of money.
The Nationals know Zimmermann as well as any team in MLB. They picked him in the second round of the 2007 draft, and he spent the first seven years of his career with the franchise, finishing in the top 10 of Cy Young voting in both 2013 and 2014.
A change in uniform wouldn't suddenly bring back that version of Zimmermann, but getting him out of Detroit would be the best thing to at least help salvage what's left of his career.
The Nationals don't have a lot of options for the back of their rotation. Joe Ross had Tommy John surgery in July that could keep him out for most, if not all, of the 2018 season. A.J. Cole has had mixed results in 16 starts over the past two seasons, posting a 4.38 ERA.
Zimmermann may not be the solution to those problems, but his history with the organization could make him an appealing option if they can get him at a greatly reduced rate.
              
Contract info via Cot's Baseball Contracts.



Houston Astros starting pitcher Dallas Keuchel told TMZ Sports he injured his foot during the team's World Series parade after slipping and falling.
"It was a good time," Keuchel, who was seen sporting a walking boot in the video, said of the celebration.
That celebration began in earnest after the team's Game 7 win over the Los Angeles Dodgers, with Keuchel getting doused in champagne during an interview with Nick Swisher of Fox Sports: 
"LEGENDARY"- @kidkeuchy talks with @NickSwisher in the locker room after winning the #WorldSeries  https://t.co/MvyHVDtv86
Keuchel, 29, had a strong 2017 season for the Astros, finishing 14-5 with a 2.90 ERA, 1.12 WHIP and 125 strikeouts in 145.2 innings. He also made five postseason starts, going 2-2 with a 3.58 ERA, 1.19 WHIP and 32 strikeouts in 27.2 innings.
He made headlines after a wild Game 2 in the October Classic, claiming the balls were juiced. 
"Obviously, the balls are juiced," he said, per Bob Nightengale of USA Today. "I think they're juiced 100 percent. But it is what it is. I'm just glad we came out on top."
"That's what Major League Baseball wants," Keuchel added. "They want that exciting two home-run lead, and then they [the Dodgers] come back and hit another home run, and everybody's still watching. That's what they want. That's what they're getting."



Even though Major League Baseball's free-agent period has been open for a few weeks already, the annual winter meetings mark the unofficial beginning for teams to make their big moves for the upcoming season. 
The 2017 Winter Meetings, which begin on Dec. 10, will come with their share of drama and intrigue of potential free-agent signings and blockbuster trades. 
There have likely already been some discussions between teams and agents for free agents at the general managers meetings that took place in Orlando two weeks ago. Both sides can pick up where they left off from those discussions and start new talks with different parties at the winter meetings. 
      
2017 Winter Meetings Schedule
Dates: Dec. 10-14
Location: Walt Disney World Swan and Dolphin Resort (Orlando, FL)
      
Top Rumors
Where Will Shohei Ohtani End Up?

The most intriguing free agent is one who has never played an MLB game in his career. Japanese sensation Shohei Ohtani will be posted by the Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters for all 30 teams to make a bid with the winner being able to negotiate a contract with him. 
Per MLB.com's Jon Paul Morosi, under the negotiated posting system that was agreed to on Nov. 21, the maximum posting fee that can be awarded to the Fighters is $20 million.
That does help smaller market teams interested, knowing they don't have to make a bid of $50-plus million like the Texas Rangers did for the right to negotiate with Yu Darvish prior to the 2012 season.
On Nov. 28, Morosi ran down a list of perceived favorites for Ohtani that includes the Rangers, New York Yankees and Los Angeles Dodgers.
The Seattle Mariners, Boston Red Sox and Chicago Cubs are also listed as contenders, though the Cubs and Dodgers are limited to just $300,000 in international money after going over their spending budgets during the previous international signing period. 
At 23 years old, Ohtani is also significantly younger than a typical free agent. For example, first baseman Eric Hosmer is 28 years old.
As for what Ohtani is such an attractive option for any team, one international scouting director had this to say about his abilities to MLB.com's Jonathan Mayo:
"I saw Griffey in the Minor Leagues and A-Rod as an amateur. The buzz about Ohtani is similar to those guys and guys like Strasburg. Compared to Griffey and A-Rod, he isn't as polished a hitter and probably doesn't have the same upside. But he does have the chance to be a Strasburg. What is unique is that he does both."
One scouting director told Mayo he prefers Ohtani as a pitcher because he's got the stuff to be a "top-end-of-rotation guy."
Whatever position Ohtani ends up playing in MLB, he's got a unique skill set that makes him so fascinating to follow throughout this process. 
Morosi did note Ohtani's posting period will last 21 days after he's posted, which happened on Friday, making Dec. 22 the earliest date he can sign.
It does take some of the drama away from the winter meetings but adds intrigue to see how teams approach the market with the most exciting talent not able to command the kind of contract a player of his talent would get if he were a traditional free agent. 
     
The Giancarlo Stanton Sweepstakes

There is already a lot of information known about where things stand with Miami Marlins outfielder Giancarlo Stanton. 
Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald reported on Oct. 30 the Marlins will try to trade Stanton as part of their effort to bring payroll down to $90 million in 2018. 
Since teams know the Marlins want to deal Stanton; the next step is finding clubs interested in making an offer for him. 
Morosi and Ben Weinrib reported on Nov. 21 that the St. Louis Cardinals made a formal offer to the Marlins for Stanton. 
SiriusXM radio host Craig Mish reported the San Francisco Giants also made an offer to the Marlins that included multiple players from both sides:
Source : Giants/Marlins names exchanged in potential Stanton deal : (SF) 2B Joe Panik, Top Prospects SP Tyler Beede &amp; OF Chris Shaw. (Mia) Stanton &amp; 2B Dee Gordon.
Both the Giants and Cardinals have met with representatives for Stanton in the past few days to gauge his interest in playing for them and his willingness to waive his no-trade clause in order to facilitate a trade. 
Morosi added that Stanton's team has given the Marlins a list of teams, including the Los Angeles Dodgers, that he would waive his full no-trade clause for. 
The biggest issue in trying to trade Stanton for the Marlins, who have a new ownership group trying to implement their philosophy into the organization, is his contract. Having a no-trade clause gives him all the power in this situation. 
There's also the issue of Stanton still being owed $295 million over the next 10 years, per Baseball-Reference.com.
Even with Stanton's stock spiking after being named 2017 National League MVP thanks to hitting 59 home runs, how many teams can afford to add a player under a long-term contract who has missed at least 39 games four times in the last six seasons?
It will be in the Marlins' best interest to make a deal before teams start handing out free-agent contracts, making it more difficult for potential suitors to add Stanton's contract and why the front office will be busy in Orlando. 
Because of Stanton's ability to control where he goes, the Dodgers look like the sneaky contender in this negotiation. He's from the Los Angeles area and will be able to return home and play for a team that has an endless supply of money and was one win away from winning the World Series last season. 
Prediction: Stanton gets traded to the Dodgers.
      
How Much Will Eric Hosmer Receive?

The free-agent case for Hosmer is another fascinating storyline to follow, thanks in no small part to agent Scott Boras. 
Boras is the best in the business at getting the deal he wants for his clients, especially the marquee players. He waited out the market until the end of January in 2012 to get Prince Fielder a $214 million contract from the Detroit Tigers at a point in the offseason when that kind of deal seemed impossible.
Per Sam Mellinger of the Kansas City Star, one NL executive speculated Boras will push for an eight-year, $200 million deal for Hosmer. 
When trying to determine Hosmer's worth as a free agent, let's use Fielder, who was 27 when he hit the market after the 2011 season, as a point of comparison. 
Even though contracts pay players for future performance, their past influences how comfortable teams are giving up a substantial amount of money.
In six full seasons with the Milwaukee Brewers from 2006-11, Fielder averaged 38 home runs, 108 RBI with a .282/.391/.541 slash line. He finished in the top four of NL MVP voting three different times (2007, 2009, 2011). 
From 2011-17 with the Kansas City Royals, Hosmer averaged 18 home runs and 81 RBI with a .284/.342/.439 slash line. He never finished higher than 14th in AL MVP voting. 
Per FanGraphs, Hosmer's 9.9 career wins above replacement is lower than Fielder's two best combined seasons with the Brewers in 2007 and 2009 (10.6). 
It also doesn't help Hosmer's chances to receive $200-plus million that this is a good market for teams buying a first baseman. Carlos Santana, Logan Morrison and Yonder Alonso are all available and won't command anything close to what Boras might seek for Hosmer. 
Given Hosmer's age, some team could talk itself into giving him a nine-figure deal over eight or nine years. Anything approaching $200 million will end up turning into a disastrous albatross because he's not a superstar player. 
Prediction: Hosmer signs for less than $200 million.



The San Francisco Giants and St. Louis Cardinals remain in the mix as they hope to acquire Miami Marlins star Giancarlo Stanton in a trade. 
Per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, Stanton was present at separate meetings over the past two days with representatives for the Giants and Cardinals as they continue to pursue the 2017 National League MVP. 
Bob Nightengale of USA Today added that both clubs were told following their meetings with Stanton that neither had been eliminated from trade talks. 
This comes after MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported Friday that the Cardinals were meeting with Stanton's representatives, but he didn't necessarily mean Stanton would be in attendance. 
Craig Mish of SiriusXM reported Thursday that Giants officials were meeting with Stanton's representatives in Los Angeles. 
Heyman noted that the only people present at the meetings were Stanton and his agent, Joel Wolfe, and the general managers for the Giants (Bobby Evans) and Cardinals (Michael Girsch). 
Stanton controls any potential destination thanks to his full no-trade clause. Heyman added that the Los Angeles Dodgers are his top choice, but the Giants and Cardinals are both a "real possibility."
Heyman previously reported Stanton was more likely to accept a deal to the Giants than Cardinals because of his preference to play on either the East or West Coast. 
The 28-year-old Stanton will provide a huge boost to whatever lineup he's in next season. He led Major League Baseball with 59 home runs, 132 RBI and a .631 slugging percentage in 2017. 



Now that Shohei Ohtani has been posted by the Nippon Ham Fighters, Major League Baseball teams are gearing up to make their pitch to the Japanese superstar.
Per Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports, Ohtani is scheduling meetings with clubs next week in Los Angeles.
Passan added the Seattle Mariners have specifically asked some players on their roster to be available between Tuesday through Friday next week for a potential meeting with Ohtani.
Ohtani was officially posted on Friday after owners ratified MLB's new agreement with Nippon Professional Baseball.
Since Ohtani is just 23 years old, he falls under MLB's international free-agent rules that restrict how much money he's able to receive from a team when he signs.
Seven teams have more than $1 million in their international bonus pool money remaining, led by the Texas Rangers ($3.54 million) and New York Yankees ($3.50 million), per the Associated Press. The Mariners have the fifth-most available money to spend at $1,557,500.
Passan noted the Yankees are the scariest team in the Ohtani sweepstakes because of how their roster looks heading into 2018, size of the New York market and a long history with Ohtani's agents at Creative Artists Agency.
The negotiating window for teams under the posting system is three weeks, making Dec. 22 the latest Ohtani will sign with a club, per Ronald Blum of the Associated Press.



As the Miami Marlins continue to explore trades for right fielder Giancarlo Stanton, the St. Louis Cardinals may not be the 2017 National League MVP's preferred landing spot.
Per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, people connected to the Marlins don't believe Stanton would waive his no-trade clause to approve a deal to the Cardinals.
One person told Heyman they "didn't see any way" Stanton would agree to go to the Cardinals, while another person said the four-time All-Star would "100 percent" prefer the San Francisco Giants.
MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported the Cardinals had set up a meeting with Stanton's representatives Friday.
The Giants had a similar meeting with Stanton's representatives Thursday, per Craig Mish of SiriusXM.
On Nov. 19, Morosi reported the Cards made a formal trade offer to the Marlins for the 28-year-old.
The Marlins have been shopping Stanton since the end of the 2017 season, with Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald reporting the team's new ownership group wants to bring the payroll down to $90 million next season.
Stanton has 10 years and $295 million left on the 13-year contract he signed after the 2014 season. The deal also includes a player opt-out after the 2020 season, per Spotrac.
Stanton is coming off his best MLB season. He hit a career-high 59 home runs to go with 132 RBI, a .631 slugging percentage and 159 games played. He also became the first player in Marlins history to be named MVP.



As the Miami Marlins continue to explore trades for right fielder Giancarlo Stanton, the St. Louis Cardinals may not be the 2017 National League MVP's preferred landing spot.
Per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, people connected to the Marlins don't believe Stanton would waive his no-trade clause to approve a deal to the Cardinals.
One person told Heyman they "didn't see any way" Stanton would agree to go to the Cardinals, while another person said the four-time All-Star would "100 percent" prefer the San Francisco Giants.
MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported the Cardinals had set up a meeting with Stanton's representatives Friday.
The Giants had a similar meeting with Stanton's representatives Thursday, per Craig Mish of SiriusXM.
On Nov. 19, Morosi reported the Cards made a formal trade offer to the Marlins for the 28-year-old.
The Marlins have been shopping Stanton since the end of the 2017 season, with Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald reporting the team's new ownership group wants to bring the payroll down to $90 million next season.
Stanton has 10 years and $295 million left on the 13-year contract he signed after the 2014 season. The deal also includes a player opt-out after the 2020 season, per Spotrac.
Stanton is coming off his best MLB season. He hit a career-high 59 home runs to go with 132 RBI, a .631 slugging percentage and 159 games played. He also became the first player in Marlins history to be named MVP.



The Miami Marlins are reportedly more focused on shedding as much of Giancarlo Stanton's 13-year, $325 million contract as possible than the level of talent they could receive as part of a blockbuster trade involving MLB's reigning home run champion.
On Saturday, Buster Olney of ESPN reported rival evaluators involved in discussions about the outfielder said the Marlins' front office views the players it would get in the deal as a "secondary concern."
The latest update in the offseason's biggest story doesn't come as a surprise.
Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald noted in late October the club's new ownership group, led by businessman Bruce Sherman and longtime New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter, wanted to reduce payroll to $90 million. Moving Stanton's contract would be a major step.
The 28-year-old California native owns complete control of his future with a full no-trade clause.
Bob Nightengale‏ of USA Today reported Friday the San Francisco Giants, one of the most frequently mentioned teams in the Stanton sweepstakes, came away from a meeting with the slugger's representatives without a definitive answer about whether he'd accept a trade.
The 2017 National League Most Valuable Player and four-time All-Star selection did suggest to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports he'd consider options if the Marlins were set for another rebuilding project.
"I don't want to rebuild … I've lost for seven years," Stanton said in September.
The Los Angeles Dodgers, New York Yankees, St. Louis Cardinals, Philadelphia Phillies and Boston Red Sox are among the other teams linked to Stanton since the 2017 season ended. The list will probably continue to grow until the Marlins and Stanton find an acceptable solution.



MLB fans will grow sick of reading Giancarlo Stanton's name by the time general managers convene in Orlando, Florida, for the annual winter meetings. 
Speculation started swirling before the Miami Marlins slugger clubbed 59 runs en route to winning this year's National League MVP award. They intensified when new ownership, led publicly by Derek Jeter, took over the organization.
In early September, Barry Jackson of the Miami Herald reported their intent on slashing the team payroll down to as low as $55 million from their end-of-season rate of approximately $117 million, per Spotrac.
According to ESPN's Jerry Crasnick, it's also possible Miami moves its superstar before the winter meetings begin on Dec. 10. If not, he suggested teams will begin to "branch out and more actively explore their Plan B's" in Florida.
For now, the hot stove still revolves around Stanton. He's the natural starting spot for the latest MLB rumor roundup.
     
Giants, Cardinals Working to Land Giancarlo Stanton

No team hit fewer home runs than the San Francisco Giants, who produced 128 long balls led by Brandon Belt's 18. They need a big-time power boost, and they don't come more powerful than Stanton.
Despite finishing with an NL-worst 64 wins, the Giants appear to have no interest in rebuilding. Instead, they're trying to soar back into contention with a major splash.
Per MLB Network's Jon Morosi, they have made an offer the Marlins would accept if the NL West squad covers the seismic bill:
Giancarlo Stanton trade development: Source says #Marlins likely would accept offer of Panik, Beede and Shaw for Stanton alone -- if #SFGiants committed to paying at least $250 million of the $295 million left on Stanton’s contract. @MLB @MLBNetwork
Stanton's contract isn't the only hurdle; he can block any trade with his full no-trade clause. Per Morosi, he would prefer to join San Francisco's division foe, the Los Angeles Dodgers.
On Thursday night, SiriusXM's Craig Mish reported that Giants front-office members met with Stanton's camp in Los Angeles. The following morning, he added that he did not hear of a completed deal prompting them to seek the star's approval:
Source : SF Giants front office executives are now in Los Angeles to meet with representatives of NL MVP Giancarlo Stanton.
Smarter people than me are saying for Sabean, Evans, Bochy to go to LA deal must be near done. Makes sense. I just am not hearing that was the end result of last night (Yet). Will keep on it.
While MLB.com respectively ranks Chris Shaw and Tyler Beede as San Francisco's No. 2 and 3 prospects, that's more telling of one of baseball's weakest farm systems. Salary relief and Joe Panik, an affordable 27-year-old second baseman who batted .282/.347/.421 with 2.0 FanGraphs WAR in 2017, are the package's real draws.
On Friday night, he added the St. Louis Cardinals to the mix:
Sources: #STLCards officials have a meeting with Giancarlo Stanton today in Los Angeles. @MLB @MLBNetwork
To clarify, I am told the #STLCards meeting is with Giancarlo Stanton's representatives -- not necessarily Stanton himself. @MLB @MLBNetwork
St. Louis could leverage some of its young lineup depth in a package led by a young pitcher such as Jack Flaherty. While the organization has a better future outlook than San Francisco, it also missed the playoffs in 2017 and must contend with the Chicago Cubs.
According to the Miami Herald's Clark Spencer, the Marlins threatened Stanton with the punishment of still having to play for the Marlins. They reportedly told him that refusing a trade could compel them to keep the MVP and gut the rest of the roster—younger and cheaper outfielders Marcell Ozuna and Christian Yelich could elicit even more trade interest—to meet their payroll goals.
There are still obstacles preventing a potential accord, so hold off on Photoshopping Stanton in a Giants or Cardinals uniform.
       
Red Sox, White Sox Discuss Jose Abreu

Stanton isn't the only slugger who could relocate to a contender. While the Chicago White Sox have cashed in most of their top trade chips during an aggressive rebuild, they still hold one more star in Jose Abreu.
Having already dealt Chris Sale, Jose Quintana, Adam Eaton, David Robertson, Tommy Kahnle and Todd Frazier, it makes sense to also trade a first baseman who turns 31 before Opening Day.
A career .301/.359/.525 hitter with at least 25 home runs and 100 RBI in each of his four major league campaigns, the Cuban native should draw considerable interest if dangled on the open market.
According to FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman, the Boston Red Sox have already checked in on the steady middle-of-the-lineup contributor.
chisox have been in active talks with red sox and others on star 1B jose abreu. boston was 1 of 4 finalists for abreu when he signed with chicago (milwaukee &amp; houston were the others).
Per FanGraphs, Boston's first basemen collectively placed No. 26 at the position with a .322 weighted on-base average (wOBA). The club might not be in any rush to retain free agent Mitch Moreland after he submitted a middling .246/.326/.443 slash line in 2017.
However, Heyman also noted early indications that "there may not be a great match." A rival talent evaluator told ESPN.com's Scott Lauber that the White Sox want "an arm and both legs" for Abreu.
That likely presents an unworkable roadblock for the Red Sox, who have either promoted or traded a majority of their blue-chip prospects. The White Sox can attest, as Yoan Moncada and Michael Kopech lead their stacked crop of up-and-coming players.
Boston may have to contain its search to free agency, where Eric Hosmer and Carlos Santana headline a deep class of available first basemen. Since Abreu is still arbitration eligible for two more years, Chicago should not rush to send him to the highest bidder this winter.
         
Rays Clearing House?

While the Tampa Bay Rays stayed in the American League's crowded wild-card hunt for most of 2017, they finished 80-82 with a minus-10 run differential. As a small-market organization watching the Red Sox and New York Yankees rekindle their storied rivalry for AL East supremacy, they can't afford to stay in the middle of the pack.
Per Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times, the Rays are poised to retool after falling short of the postseason for the fourth straight year.
"The Rays are going to trade at least a couple of their bigger-name, higher-salaried players in their plan to cut payroll," Topkin wrote. "Starter Jake Odorizzi (projected to make $6.5 million) and closer Alex Colome ($5.5M) are two of the most likely to go and have been popular in early conversations. OF/DH Corey Dickerson ($6.4M) also seems high on the to-trade list."

If true, most contenders will remain in contact with Rays general manager Erik Neander during the offseason.
Although he posted an unsettling 5.43 fielding independent pitching (FIP) in 2017, per FanGraphs, Odorizzi owns a 3.83 career ERA and has made at least 28 starts in four consecutive seasons. Former teammate Alex Cobb is one of a select few free agents who can inspire more interest for pitching-needy squads.
Colome's MLB-leading 47 saves may hide his regression from a breakout 2017. His ERA and FIP rose from 1.91 and 2.92 to 3.24 and 3.37, respectively, on account of registering more walks (3.11) and fewer strikeouts (7.83) per nine innings. Yet he's still an affordable closer who turns 29 on New Year's Eve, so he's an appealing option for those who miss out on top free-agent relievers.
Morosi said the Cardinals have spoken to Tampa Bay about Colome. He also wondered whether talks would expand to inquire about the Rays' franchise centerpiece:
Sources: Evan Longoria's name not seriously involved -- yet -- in ongoing #STLCards/#Rays talks centered on Alex Colome. But Cardinals could look to add bat at 3B if they fail to land Giancarlo Stanton. Stay tuned. @MLB @MLBNetwork
Drafted in 2006, Longoria represents a rare Rays lifer. He made a long-term relationship possible by signing a team-friendly contract through 2022 with a 2023 club option, per Spotrac.
Yet keeping the 32-year-old around for the duration of a back-loaded deal may no longer look favorable after the third baseman batted .261/.313/.424 with 20 home runs, his lowest tally in a full season with over 75 games played.
It's still more likely the Rays explore offers for Dickerson, who cratered from a torrid start by hitting .242/.282/.408 after the All-Star break. Since he's 28 years old with two more years of team control, the designated hitter should reserve some trade value.



The Toronto Blue Jays have added to their middle-infield depth by acquiring shortstop Aledmys Diaz from the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Per Robert Murray of FanRag Sports, the Cardinals are receiving outfielder J.B. Woodman from the Blue Jays for Diaz.   
Diaz became expendable for the Cardinals following the emergence of Paul DeJong, who led the team with 25 home runs in 2017. 
The Blue Jays are taking a flier on Diaz with the hope he'll bounce back next season. He spent two months in Triple-A from June 28 through September 20 and hit just .259/.290/.392 with seven home runs in 79 games. 
Diaz was an All-Star in 2016 and finished fifth in National League Rookie of the Year voting. The 27-year-old got off to a terrific start in his debut season, posting a .315/.380/.536 slash line in the first half, but he struggled after the All-Star break with a .782 OPS. 
Woodman spent 2017 in Low-A with the Lansing Lugnuts. The 22-year-old was a second-round pick in 2016 and hit .240/.320/.378 in 96 games last season. 
The Blue Jays will be able to use Diaz as a utility infielder next season. He can also serve as the primary backup to shortstop Troy Tulowitzki, who has missed a total of 127 games in the past two seasons. 



The New York Yankees announced on Monday they have hired Aaron Boone as their new manager after Joe Girardi and the team parted ways in October following a trip to the American League Championship Series. 
It's a three-year contract that runs through the 2020 season with a team option for 2021.
On Dec. 1, the New York Daily News' Bill Madden first relayed word of the Bronx Bombers' decision to hire the former ESPN analyst and Yankee third baseman, who became a pinstriped folk hero when he hit an 11th-inning, walk-off home run in Game 7 of the 2003 ALCS against the Boston Red Sox. 
Boone was one of six people who interviewed for the job along with former Yankees outfielder Carlos Beltran, former bench coach Rob Thomson—who is now the new bench coach for the Philadelphia Phillies, according to MLB.com's Todd Zolecki—San Francisco Giants bench coach Hensley Meulens, former Cleveland Indians and Seattle Mariners manager Eric Wedge and Los Angeles Dodgers third base coach Chris Woodward.
The Athletic's Ken Rosenthal reported Meulens was the other finalist for the job. 
"I would say in a way I've been preparing for this job for the last 44 years," Boone said after interviewing for the job in mid-November, according to the Associated Press (via ESPN.com). 
Boone added that while he doesn't have any previous experience as a manager, his status as a baseball lifer and son of former MLB catcher and manager Bob Boone helped prepare him for the gig. 
"I've been going to the ballpark since I was 3 and 4 years old, and in a way managing the game from a very young age. And then growing up where my dad was in the big leagues from the time I was born to the time I was in a senior in high school and being around great teams, great players, I've kind of lived this game as a kid," he said.
Boone will now get the opportunity to pick up where Girardi left off and lead one of MLB's most talented clubs back into World Series contention. 
With reigning AL home run king Aaron Judge, power-hitting catcher Gary Sanchez, ace Luis Severino, a top-notch bullpen and ascendant young infielder Gleyber Torres all at his disposal, Boone should have the resources necessary to morph the Yankees into a perennial powerhouse once he gets acclimated to life on the bench. 



The St. Louis Cardinals are the latest team to meet with representatives for Miami Marlins star Giancarlo Stanton as trade rumors swirl around the 2017 National League MVP.
Per MLB.com's Jon Paul Morosi, Cardinals officials are in Los Angeles to meet with Stanton.
Morosi clarified the meeting is with Stanton's representatives, and won't necessarily include Stanton. 
The Cardinals' meeting with Stanton's representatives comes one day after Craig Mish of SiriusXM reported the San Francisco Giants talked with the four-time All-Star's camp. 
ESPN's Buster Olney reported the Giants' meeting was specifically to determine if Stanton would be willing to waive his no-trade clause and accept a deal to the team. 
The Cardinals and Giants are two of the teams heavily linked to Stanton in trade rumblings this offseason. Ken Rosenthal of the Athletic reported on Nov. 17 the Giants already made their offer to the Marlins, with the Cardinals and Boston Red Sox expected to make an offer. 
Morosi reported on Nov. 19 that St. Louis made a formal trade offer for Stanton.
With the Marlins under new ownership, Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald reported the team hopes to bring its payroll down to $90 million, and will use Stanton, second baseman Dee Gordon and third baseman Martin Prado as trade bait. 
Stanton has 10 years and $295 million remaining on the 13-year deal he signed in November 2014, per Spotrac. The 28-year-old set career highs with 59 home runs, 132 RBI and a .631 slugging percentage in 2017. 



The New York Yankees reportedly informed longtime MLB outfielder Carlos Beltran he won't be selected as the club's new manager.
Tim Brown of Yahoo Sports passed along the status update Friday.
Beltran announced his retirement last month after winning his first World Series title when the Houston Astros defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 2017 Fall Classic.
The 40-year-old Puerto Rico native immediately became a popular name on the managerial market. Laura Albanese of Newsday noted Wednesday the nine-time All-Star thought his interview with the Yankees went "well," though he's been surprised by the potentially quick transition in baseball roles.
"Honestly, I got very excited because it wasn’t something I was expected this soon," he said. "I personally feel that when I first retired from baseball, I thought I was going to be able to spend a little time with the family, but the fact that I got the call to be interviewed, this is something that you cannot turn away from it."
Bill Madden of the New York Daily News reported earlier Friday the Yanks are expected to choose between Aaron Boone and Hensley Meulens to fill the void created when the organization opted against re-signing Joe Girardi. An official announcement is expected next week.
Beltran was eliminated from contention because Yankees general manager Brian Cashman "wouldn't turn the managerial reins over to someone fresh out of the player ranks," per Madden.
The slugger spent two decades in the majors starting with the Kansas City Royals in 1998 and finishing with the Astros this season. He also made stops with the New York Mets, San Francisco Giants, St. Louis Cardinals, Texas Rangers and the Bronx Bombers.
In all, Beltran posted a .279/.350/.486 triple-slash line with 435 home runs and 312 stolen bases across 2,586 MLB games. Along with his prowess at the plate, he also earned three Gold Glove Awards for his work in the field.



Major League Baseball announced Friday that Colorado Rockies closer Greg Holland and Kansas City Royals third baseman Mike Moustakas have won the 2017 Comeback Player of the Year Awards in the National League and American League, respectively.
Holland missed all of 2016 after undergoing Tommy John surgery, while Moustakas appeared in only 27 games during the 2016 season due to a torn ACL.
The 2017 season was Holland's first with the Rockies after he spent the first six seasons of his MLB career with the Royals.
Holland went 3-6 and converted 41 of 45 save opportunities to go along with a 3.61 ERA and 70 strikeouts in 57.1 innings pitched.
The 32-year-old was named an All-Star for the third time in his career, and he helped lead Colorado to its first playoff berth since 2009.
Moustakas enjoyed a career year in Kansas City last season, as he hit .272 and set personal bests with 38 home runs, 85 RBI and 75 runs scored.
He made his second All-Star team in the process and ranked fifth in the American League in homers.
Both the 29-year-old Moustakas and Holland—who were teammates when the Royals won the World Series in 2015—are free agents this offseason.



All 30 Major League Baseball teams can start placing their bids for Japanese star Shohei Ohtani after the league ratified the new posting system on Friday. 
Per an official release from MLB (via ESPN's Jerry Crasnick), MLB and Japan's Nippon Professional Baseball league approved an extension of their previous posting agreement that will run through Nov. 1, 2018:
MLB clubs have ratified the new posting agreement https://t.co/XJs29Mu4HG
Ratifying the agreement was the last step needed before Ohtani could officially be posted for MLB teams to bid on. 
MLB and the MLB Players Association reached agreement on the posting system Nov. 22. Joel Sherman of the New York Post reported that starting next offseason, Japanese teams will be able to receive a certain percentage, depending on the total value of a contract, for a player who signs with an MLB team. 
Per Crasnick, the Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters, Ohtani's Japanese club, will receive $20 million for posting him. Because he's only 23 years old, two years younger than the required age for international free agents to receive any contract value, he will be limited to receiving a minor league deal that can also include any available money teams have in international bonus spending. 
Per the Associated Press, the Texas Rangers ($3.54 million), New York Yankees ($3.50 million) and Minnesota Twins ($3.07 million) have the most international bonus money remaining. 
Ohtani is a two-way star in Japan who hit .286/.358/.500 and posted a 2.52 ERA with 624 strikeouts and 384 hits allowed in 543 innings over the past five seasons with Nippon-Ham. 



The Chicago White Sox and veteran catcher Welington Castillo reached an agreement Friday on a two-year contract with a club option for a third season, the team announced. 
Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic first provided details of the free-agent signing. Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan reported the two-year contract is worth $15 million guaranteed with a third-year option worth $8 million. 
Castillo spent the 2017 MLB season with the Baltimore Orioles. Although he battled injuries and shared time with Caleb Joseph behind the plate, he still managed to tally a .282/.323/.490 triple-slash line with a career-high 20 home runs in just 96 appearances.
In June, he talked about the difficulties of being a consistent offensive producer while also taking the punishment of playing catcher, per Jon Meoli of the Baltimore Sun.
"Honestly, I think that I can hit a little bit," Castillo said. "Always, I've been that type of hitter who has just had stuff happen, injuries and stuff out there that made me not perform the right way or be 100 percent.
"But honestly as a catcher, it's hard to perform 100 percent every day because you're sore, you get hit every day, you're so involved in the game. It doesn't mean I don't. I'm not trying to make an excuse or whatever, but it doesn't matter if you're 100 percent or not. I'm going to give everything I've got that day."
The 30-year-old Dominican Republic native previously played for the Chicago Cubs, Seattle Mariners and Arizona Diamondbacks during a major league tenure that started in 2010.
He's a career .259 hitter with 80 homers in 605 games. He's been more reliable in the power department in recent years, hitting 53 of those long balls since the beginning of the 2015 campaign.
While Castillo's performance at the plate has trended in the right direction, his numbers behind the dish have gone the opposite way.
He's finished with a negative Defensive Runs Saved figure in two of the past three seasons, including a minus-three mark for the 2017 season, per FanGraphs. He also finished 13 runs below average for his pitch framing last year, according to StatCorner.
Ultimately, it's no surprise Castillo drew free-agent interest given his numbers last season and the lack of impact offensive players available at the position. One factor to keep in mind, however, is that he posted a .929 OPS at Camden Yards compared to a .694 mark in road games.
The extreme split brings a little more risk into the equation with the signing for Chicago, but he's still a nice addition given his track record from the past three years. He should slot in as the team's starting catcher ahead of Kevan Smith.



Japanese baseball phenom Shohei Ohtani may prefer to sign with an MLB team that doesn't already have another Japanese star on its roster, according to a new report.
Per MLB Network's Jon Morosi, multiple team executives say they believe Ohtani may want to stand alone in that regard, although his camp has not commented on the matter.
According to Morosi, Ohtani's teammate in Japan, Brandon Laird, suggested the report could be true by saying, "I feel like he just wants to come and not be compared to other guys who have already been here—to start fresh on his own, show what he can do by himself."
Ohtani is free to sign with an MLB team this offseason after a posting agreement was reached by MLB, the MLB Players Association and the Nippon Professional Baseball Organization in Japan, per Joel Sherman of the New York Post.
The 23-year-old Ohtani is widely regarded as the Japanese Babe Ruth due to his excellence both as a pitcher and a hitter.
Ohtani's agent, Nez Balelo, said in November that Ohtani wants to play both ways in Major League Baseball, according to NPB on Reddit (h/t Mike Axisa of CBS Sports).
Last season, Ohtani hit .332 with eight home runs and 31 RBI in 202 at-bats, while going 3-2 with a 3.20 ERA and 29 strikeouts in 25.1 innings pitched for the Nippon-Ham Fighters.
Ohtani played far more the previous season and produced a .322 batting average and 22 homers in 323 at-bats, as well as a 10-4 pitching record with a 1.86 ERA in 140 innings.
It stands to reason that all 30 MLB teams have interest in a talent as rare as Ohtani, but if the report regarding his desire to be a standalone Japanese star is true, it could limit his options.
Most notably, the team that signs pitcher Yu Darvish in free agency may lose the Ohtani sweepstakes, while the New York Yankees could also be out of the running with pitcher Masahiro Tanaka already on the roster.
On Friday, Yankees general manager Brian Cashman told reporters the Yanks are all-in on Ohtani and that they will allow him to play both ways if they sign him.
While Major League Baseball has featured many superstars from Japan over the years, the uniqueness of Ohtani makes him a candidate to eclipse all of them regardless of whether he has a Japanese star alongside him.



New York Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said Friday he will not interview any additional candidates for the club's managerial opening.
According to Mike Mazzeo of the New York Daily News, Cashman said there will not be a second round of interviews, either. He said he will soon make his recommendation to ownership.
The six candidates who have interviewed for the job are Yankees bench coach Rob Thomson, former Cleveland Indians and Seattle Mariners manager Eric Wedge, ESPN analyst Aaron Boone, San Francisco Giants bench coach Hensley Meulens, Los Angeles Dodgers third base coach Chris Woodward and recently retired Houston Astros outfielder Carlos Beltran.
Although the Yankees surprised many by reaching the American League Championship Series last season and falling one win short of the World Series, Cashman decided to part ways with Joe Girardi after 10 seasons.
In Girardi's decade at the helm, the Yanks reached the playoffs six times and won a World Series. They went 910-710 during the regular season, the best record of any MLB team during that time.
Perhaps the most intriguing candidate among those who interviewed for the job is Beltran; the 40-year-old retired after winning the 2017 World Series with the Astros.
Beltran spent parts of three seasons with the Yankees from 2014 through 2016, and he is among the most well-respected players in recent memory.
Following his interview Wednesday, Beltran felt good about where he stood, per MLB.com's Bryan Hoch: "This is not something that you can turn away from. These types of opportunities, especially one with the Yankees, they don't come very often. I'm committed for the job, there's no doubt about that, and excited if I get the opportunity. I would love to manage. I would love to give back to the game."
The Yankees have had just two managers since Joe Torre arrived in 1996, and they remain the most successful franchise in the history of Major League Baseball.
There is an eclectic group of potential managers for Cashman to choose from, and whoever takes over the team will be leading a young, talented club.



It's past time to ponder a hot-stove blockbuster involving the Miami Marlins' other All-Star outfielder.
As in, not Giancarlo Stanton. Plenty has already been said about a potential trade involving him, largely because such a trade seems about as inevitable as him hitting Statcastable dingers.
New Marlins owners Bruce Sherman and Derek Jeter want to cut the team's payroll. Shedding the remainder of Stanton's $325 million contract would do the trick. Since the 28-year-old right fielder is coming off an MVP-winning season, his trade value is in good shape.
And yet I propose: The Marlins outfielder everyone should want is 27-year-old left fielder Marcell Ozuna.
It's not because he's Stanton's equal on the diamond. With his career .786 OPS and 96 home runs, Ozuna can't match Stanton's career .914 OPS and 267 home runs. And while he may be coming off a career-best .924 OPS and 37 homers, Stanton is coming off a career-best 1.007 OPS and 59 homers.
Still, Ozuna isn't chopped liver.
He's been an All-Star two years in a row and claimed his first Gold Glove and Silver Slugger this year. He also has one big advantage on Stanton: a substantially cheaper price tag.
Stanton's record-sized contract has 10 years and $295 million remaining on it. Ozuna will earn a small fraction of that in his final two years of club control: $10.9 million via arbitration in 2018, per Tim Dierkes of MLB Trade Rumors, likely followed by a good but not outrageous raise in 2019.
Of course, Ozuna's affordable cost is easily viewed as a reason for the Marlins to keep him. ESPN's Buster Olney indicated in early November that their instinct is to do just that:
Marlins communicated to other teams they are open to offers for Giancarlo Stanton, Dee Gordon, Martin Prado. For now, not Yelich or Ozuna.
But as Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald reported, the Marlins could be forced to shed payroll via trades of Ozuna and others if Stanton uses his no-trade clause to block deals to places he doesn't want to go. 
Otherwise, there's the simpler argument that dealing Ozuna is a better way for the Marlins to achieve what they want.
They don't just need payroll relief. They also need to replenish a farm system that Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter has ranked at No. 28 in Major League Baseball.
Due to the sheer size of his contract, the smallness of Stanton's market is one barrier in the way of them doing both by trading him. Another barrier is the question of whether he'll ultimately live up to his contract, hence why the latest rumored package for him (via Jon Morosi of MLB.com) sounds so light.
Ozuna is a different story. 

He was worth 5.8 wins above replacement in 2017, according to Baseball Reference. Set the cost per WAR at $8 million, and his value comes to $46.4 million. Assume some inflation in 2018 and 2019, and his value over the next two seasons could approach $100 million.
Relative to the $25-30 million he'll actually earn, that equates to a ton of surplus value. The Marlins could use that surplus value to leverage top prospects out of suitors in trade talks. Given Ozuna's reasonable price tag, there should be a good number of suitors to barter with.
For those suitors, though, the elephant in the room is a question that's as fair as it is big: Did Ozuna really reach new heights in 2017, or will his career year prove to be a one-time spike?
He wasn't terribly consistent in his first four seasons, typically following tremendous peaks with tremendous valleys—he even got demoted to the minor leagues in 2015. All told, he averaged just a .741 OPS and 2.0 WAR between 2013 and 2016.
But Ozuna's struggles were never a matter of ability. Pretty much everything that Statcast can measure—sprint speed, throwing strength and, perhaps most notably, power—paints him as one of MLB's best athletes.
His inconsistency at the plate was tied to his approach. He wasn't an aggressive swinger on the whole, but he swung at too many bad pitches outside the strike zone and not enough good pitches inside it.
Here's a look at how that changed in 2017:
Ozuna became the good kind of aggressive, channeling more of his swings inside the zone. He benefited accordingly, rocketing in-zone pitches at an average of 93.3 miles per hour en route to a .661 in-zone slugging percentage. His previous high had been .549.
Here's how Marlins manager Don Mattingly summarized Ozuna's transformation in June, according to Tim Healey of the Sun Sentinel: “Just less giveaway at-bats, as much as anything. Less throwaway at-bats, where he gets a couple of hits and gets happy and just starts swinging. I see more and more quality at-bats, and that’s how you pile up numbers."
Ozuna also benefited from a position switch. Defensive metrics such as defensive runs saved and ultimate zone rating had rated him as a below-average center fielder. Both rated him as an above-average left fielder in 2017, with DRS even rating him as the National League's best. 
All this doesn't necessarily erase the threat of Ozuna regressing back to inconsistency and turning into a bust for a new team. For said new team, that would be a good amount of money and talented prospects down the drain.
But as far as risk goes, that beats the specter of Stanton going bust.
In light of his age, mileage and injury history, that's certainly possible. Maybe his new team wouldn't be lamenting lost blue-chip prospects, but that's a small comfort when you have an albatross worth a couple hundred million dollars clogging your payroll. Unless you're the Los Angeles Dodgers or the New York Yankees—both of whom seem to be unlikely fits for Stanton—that's a hard mistake to shrug off.
From the sound of things, it's a good bet that somebody will deal for Stanton this winter. But for everyone else, Ozuna should be either Plan B or Plan A.
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Baseball Savant.




During the MLB offseason, especially with a thin free-agent class like the one available this winter, prospects become the most valuable currency on the market.
Just look at all the top prospects who were on the move last offseason:
There's probably not a Chris Sale-level trade coming this year unless the Tampa Bay Rays decide it's time to move Chris Archer, but there could still be plenty of top-tier prospects on the move.
Ahead is a look at seven top prospects who could be used in blockbuster trades.
2017 Stats (AA/AAA): 514 PA, .292/.346/.525, 60 XBH (24 HR), 79 RBI, 58 R
         
Overview
The San Francisco Giants remain a realistic landing spot for Miami Marlins star Giancarlo Stanton, and it sounds like Chris Shaw could be the prospect centerpiece.
Jon Paul Morosi of MLB Network recently wrote: "One source with knowledge of the Marlins' plans believes the team would, in fact, accept an offer of [Joe] Panik, [Tyler] Beede and [Chris] Shaw for Stanton alone—if the Giants committed to paying most of the $295 million left on Stanton's contract, somewhere in the neighborhood of $250 million."
A first-round pick in 2015, Shaw slugged 45 home runs the past two years and posted an .858 OPS with 18 home runs in 360 plate appearances in his first taste of Triple-A ball.
His lack of athleticism makes first base his best fit defensively, but he played right field in college and spent the bulk of 2017 manning left field.
While he could be considered an internal option to take over one of the corner spots in San Francisco this coming season, the team has placed an emphasis on improving its outfield defense, as NBCS Bay Area's Alex Pavlovic detailed.
Using the 24-year-old and his legitimate 60-grade power to land an established outfielder who better addresses the team's needs makes sense.
2017 Stats (A+/AA): 25 GS, 11-6, 3.45 ERA, 1.18 WHIP, 122 K, 127.2 IP
        
Overview
Seattle Mariners general manager Jerry Dipoto is not afraid to dip into the farm system to facilitate a trade.
A quick list of the notable prospects he's sent packing in his two years with the team: Luiz Gohara, Tyler O'Neill, Alex Jackson, Zack Littell, Brayan Hernandez, Jose Ramirez, Paul Blackburn, Ryan Yarbrough, Drew Jackson and Boog Powell.
Unless an unexpected opportunity to trade for someone like Chris Archer presents itself, it's safe to assume the team's most recent first-round picks—outfielder Kyle Lewis and first baseman Evan White—are untouchable.
Everyone else is on the table, though.
Right-hander Nick Neidert is widely regarded as the No. 3 prospect in the system, and he would be an attractive centerpiece for a controllable mid-level arm or some outfield help, depending on where the team decides to focus.
The 21-year-old has moved quickly through the system since being selected in the second round of the 2015 draft, reaching Double-A for the first time last season. He's undersized at 6'1" and 180 pounds, but he has the tools to develop into a solid MLB starter.
MLB.com writes of the pitcher:
"Neidert's high three-quarters arm slot allows him to create a good downhill angle to the plate, and he generates his velocity with athleticism and arm speed rather than effort. The undersized right-hander faces questions about his durability, but he has the arsenal and command profile to develop into a No. 3 starter in the Major Leagues."
Chances are he won't be ready to debut in the majors until at least the second half of 2019, and with the Mariners looking to win now, flipping him is not out of the question.

2017 Stats (A/A+): 391 PA, .304/.379/.481, 32 XBH (12 HR), 69 RBI, 45 R
          
Overview
The Houston Astros struck gold when they traded reliever Josh Fields to the Los Angeles Dodgers in exchange for Cuban defector Yordan Alvarez in August 2016.
Signed for a $2 million bonus just six weeks prior to that trade, Alvarez had not yet begun his pro career when he was already on the move to a different organization.
Alvarez, 20, hit .351 over 125 plate appearances in Cuba's top league when he was only 17, and that experience has been evident in his advanced approach at the plate.
He hit .304 with 32 extra-base hits while walking at a solid 10.7 percent clip and striking out just 19.7 percent of the time while splitting the 2017 season between Single-A and High-A.
It's easy to dream about the untapped power potential in his 6'5", 225-pound frame, and he's shown passable defensive skills at both first base and in left field.
For the Astros, upgrading the bullpen appears to be the biggest area of need this offseason—particularly on the left side, where Tony Sipp is the only option.
Elite prospects Kyle Tucker and Forrest Whitley will both be untouchable, and the same is probably true of 2016 first-round pick J.B. Bukauskas.
Would a package built around Alvarez be enough to pry someone like Brad Hand away from the San Diego Padres or Zach Britton away from the Baltimore Orioles?
The Astros could be asking that question this winter.
2017 Stats (Rk/A+/AA): 19 GS, 3-2, 2.93 ERA, 1.03 WHIP, 88 K, 73.2 IP
            
Overview
Walker Buehler is the consensus top prospect in the Dodgers system, one of the best pitching prospects in all of baseball and untouchable playing for an organization that has clung tightly to its upper-echelon prospects in recent years.
Outfielder Alex Verdugo is also a safe bet to be staying put after he hit .314/.389/.436 in a full season with Triple-A Oklahoma City at the age of 21.
From there, opinions are varied when it comes to which player belongs next on the organizational prospect list.
Hard-throwing Yadier Alvarez was a popular name at this time last year, but after pitching to a 4.68 ERA while seeing his walk rate spike from 3.2 to 4.9 BB/9 in his first taste of upper-level competition, some of his luster has faded.
Keibert Ruiz and Will Smith both rank among the top catching prospects in baseball with the tools to be everyday guys at the highest level. The Dodgers might not be ready to part with either player, though.
Big-ticket international signings Yusniel Diaz and Starling Heredia still have huge upside, 2017 first-round pick Jeren Kendall was a steal at No. 23 overall and right-hander Dustin May is a name to watch.
In other words, there were plenty of guys we could have highlighted here for the Dodgers, but we will go with right-hander Mitchell White.
If Buehler and Verdugo are off-limits, there's a good chance White would be the next name out of team's mouth in any major trade talks this winter.
With a strong 6'4" frame, a polished four-pitch repertoire and impressive results in 2017—including a .172 opponents' batting average and 10.8 K/9—he will be knocking on the door of top-100 prospect lists. There's no question he has the upside to be a blockbuster centerpiece.

2017 Stats (AA/AAA): 519 PA, .355/.403/.583, 63 XBH (20 HR), 88 RBI, 74 R
          
Overview
According to Morosi, the Colorado Rockies are "pursuing various options" to address the closer's role, including free agent Wade Davis and trade target Zach Britton.
If they do wind up swinging a trade, especially for Britton, they could use Ryan McMahon as the primary trade chip.
McMahon, 22, bounced back from a disappointing 2016 season to reclaim his standing as a top-100 prospect by posting a .986 OPS with 63 extra-base hits in 519 plate appearances between Double-A and Triple-A.
With some defensive versatility and nothing left to prove in the minors, he could break camp in a utility role, serving as a left-handed hitting complement to Ian Desmond at first base while also backing up second and third base.
However, he may be better utilized as a trade chip.
McMahon's natural position is third base, and the Orioles last season toyed with the idea of moving Manny Machado back to shortstop to replace the departed J.J. Hardy, so there's a potential vacancy at the hot corner in Baltimore.
Meanwhile, with fellow top prospect Brendan Rodgers also expected to arrive in short order, the infield situation will remain crowded in Colorado for the foreseeable future, and McMahon may simply never have a clear path to everyday playing time.

2017 Stats (A+/AA): 524 PA, .282/.347/.563, 68 XBH (31 HR), 94 RBI, 89 R
             
Overview
Michael Chavis has always possessed tremendous offensive potential. Ut just took him longer to tap into it than some might have hoped.
Taken with the No. 26 pick in the 2014 draft, Chavis hit just .235/.301/.396 while walking at a 7.1 percent rate and striking out 27.4 percent of the time in his first three professional seasons.
However, the 22-year-old started the 2017 season with High-A Salem and quickly proved too good for that level, as he posted a 1.029 OPS with 17 doubles and 17 home runs in 250 plate appearances.
His numbers dipped following a promotion to Double-A, but he still more than held his own against upper-level pitching to finish the season with 35 doubles, 31 home runs and 94 RBI.
So why would a Red Sox team with a thinned-out farm system consider trading a budding star?
Aside from 15 games at shortstop during rookie ball, Chavis has played exclusively third base as a pro, and he's firmly blocked there long term by Rafael Devers.
MLB.com notes that there are "some scouts who think he could become a second baseman in the Dan Uggla mold." The incumbent, Dustin Pedroia, isn't getting any younger.
Still, the team's best move might be to sell high this winter, provided the right blockbuster trade opportunity presents itself.

2017 Stats (AA/AAA): 25 GS, 14-4, 2.18 ERA, 1.04 WHIP, 147 K, 148.2 IP
             
Overview
No one should be convinced the St. Louis Cardinals would entertain the idea of moving Alex Reyes, even in a deal for Stanton.
And frankly, they shouldn't have to.
If Stanton does prove willing to waive his no-trade clause—a big "if"—a package built around right-hander Jack Flaherty, another of the team's highly regarded pitching prospects like Sandy Alcantara or Jordan Hicks and outfielder Randal Grichuk, would easily top the Morosi-reported offer on the table from the Giants.
Flaherty, 22, had been steadily climbing the organizational ladder with good-not-great results since going in the first round of the 2014 draft, before breaking out with a dominant 2017 season.
He opened the year with his Double-A debut and went 7-2 with a 1.42 ERA and 0.92 WHIP in 10 starts before earning a promotion to Triple-A and eventually to the majors, where he struggled to a 6.33 ERA in five starts and one relief appearances.
His future remains incredibly bright, though.
He's seen an uptick in velocity, as his 6'4" frame has filled out. He backs his mid-90s fastball with a 60-grade changeup and a good slider, and he's always had good command of the strike zone, with just 2.6 BB/9 for his minor league career.
Flaherty could immediately step into an MLB rotation and carve out a spot as a good middle-of-the-rotation starter for the next decade. And there's potential for a bit more if his stuff continues to improve.
That's enough to make him an elite trade chip in what figures to be a busy offseason for the Cardinals.
               
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.



Trade negotiations between the Miami Marlins and San Francisco Giants regarding 2017 National League MVP Giancarlo Stanton may be heating up.
SiriusXM Radio's Craig Mish reported Thursday members of San Francisco's front office were meeting with Stanton's representatives in Los Angeles.
Buster Olney of ESPN reported the meeting is to see if Stanton would approve a move to the Giants.
MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported what could be the framework of the potential trade:
Giancarlo Stanton trade development: Source says #Marlins likely would accept offer of Panik, Beede and Shaw for Stanton alone -- if #SFGiants committed to paying at least $250 million of the $295 million left on Stanton’s contract. @MLB @MLBNetwork
Stanton has a full no-trade clause as part of the 13-year, $325 million contract he signed with the Marlins in 2014. It makes sense for Giants representatives to feel out the 28-year-old before they continue working on a deal with Miami.
There's no question Stanton would be a massive improvement in the Giants outfield.
Jarrett Parker's power in the minors hasn't translated to MLB. He has 15 home runs and a .456 slugging percentage in 382 career plate appearances. Stanton, meanwhile, led the majors with 59 homers, 132 RBI and a .631 slugging percentage.
Acquiring Stanton would come with some risk for San Francisco, though. The 2017 season was the first time he had appeared in 150-plus games since 2011.
While a solid defender, Stanton, a right fielder, wouldn't necessarily solve the Giants' defensive issues, either. Denard Span's minus-7.5 ultimate zone rating was 16th among 17 qualified center fielders, per FanGraphs, and Stanton won't be playing center field anytime soon.
Still, Stanton's arrival would build a lot of excitement in the Bay Area after a disappointing 64-98 season.



A market is reportedly starting to develop for free-agent outfielder and first baseman Jay Bruce. 
According to USA Today's Bob Nightengale, the Seattle Mariners and Colorado Rockies have emerged as possible suitors for the 30-year-old. 
Newsday's Marc Carig also reported Thursday that Bruce and the New York Mets have "mutual interest in a reunion" after he was shipped to the Cleveland Indians in August. 
On Nov. 8, ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick reported teams that had "inquired" about Bruce were informed he's seeking a five-year deal worth somewhere between $80-90 million. 
That's a steep price to pay for a 10-year veteran who will turn 31 years old on April 3, but Bruce is coming off a strong season that was split between the Mets and Indians. 
In 617 total plate appearances, Bruce slashed .254/.324/.508 with an .832 OPS, career-high 36 home runs and 101 RBI. 
Bruce also played encouraging defense as a corner outfielder. 
According to FanGraphs, Bruce ranked seventh among all qualified right fielders with six defensive runs saved and ninth among his positional peers with a 1.8 UZR.  
Based on those figures and the dearth of power hitters available this winter, Bruce should have plenty of leverage when it comes time to negotiate. 



Sportsnet fired former MLB catcher Gregg Zaun as a Toronto Blue Jays analyst for directing "inappropriate behavior and comments" at female coworkers, the Canadian Press reported (via the CBC).
"This week, we received complaints from multiple female employees at Sportsnet regarding inappropriate behavior by Gregg Zaun in the workplace," Rogers Media president Rick Brace said in a statement.
Brace said Sportsnet fired Zaun after launching an investigation into the allegations against him.
Zaun began working at Sportsnet in 2006 as an analyst during the playoffs and joined the network full time in 2011 after he retired from MLB.
Zaun spent 16 years in the league and played for nine different teams. His longest spell came with the Blue Jays as he was in Toronto from 2004 to 2008 and appeared in 535 games for the team.



The Mets and outfielder Jay Bruce could be headed toward a reunion this offseason with Marc Carig of Newsday reporting mutual interest between the two sides. 
Bruce spent parts of the 2016 and 2017 seasons with New York before being traded to the Cleveland Indians in August.
The outfielder spent most of his first nine seasons with the Cincinnati Reds before coming to the Mets in 2016, where he struggled mightily to the tune of a .219 average and .685 OPS in 50 games. He was much better in 2017 after the team picked up his player option, posting a .256 batting average with .841 OPS and 29 home runs before being dealt.
Despite playing only 103 games with the team, he ranked third on the Mets with 2.7 wins above replacement last year, per Baseball Reference.
Adding his time in Cleveland, Bruce had a career-high 36 home runs to go with 101 RBI, only the second time in his career he topped 100 RBI.
While there are always questions about his consistency, the 30-year-old has three All-Star appearances and would provide some much-needed offense to a Mets team full of question marks. He can play first base if Dominic Smith isn't quite ready to take over the role, or right field isn't 100 percent in his return from shoulder surgery.
Carig noted the team also has interest in free agents Eric Hosmer, Carlos Santana and Adam Lind, each of which mostly spends time at first base.



With the New York Yankees still interviewing managerial candidates, Jennifer Lopez has thrown an endorsement behind her boyfriend, Alex Rodriguez. 
Lopez included Rodriguez's picture in a post on her official Instagram page, along with a link to an SB Nation article making the case for the three-time American League MVP to be the next Yankees skipper:
A photo posted by Jennifer Lopez (@jlo)
There is no indication Rodriguez has been one of the many candidates interviewed by the Yankees for the job. 
SiriusXM's Jim Bowden reported Monday that the Yankees have conducted interviews with five candidates and planned on bringing in more people. Carlos Beltran, who retired on Nov. 13 after 20 seasons, became the sixth person to interview for the job on Wednesday. 
Per Mike Axisa of CBS Sports, the other candidates who have been interviewed include Rob Thomson, Eric Wedge, Aaron Boone, Hensley Meulen and Chris Woodward. 
Rodriguez certainly understands everything that goes into being under the New York spotlight as a member of the Yankees. He played 13 years with the organization from 2004-16, enduring his share of trials and tribulations along the way. 
Former Yankees manager Joe Torre wrote in his 2009 book The Yankee Years that teammates nicknamed Rodriguez "A-Fraud" for demanding attention from clubhouse attendants. 
Since retiring from Major League Baseball in August 2016, Rodriguez has served as an analyst for Fox Sports. 



The Miami Marlins have agreed to lower their asking price in trade talks for Giancarlo Stanton with the San Francisco Giants—provided the club picks up $250 million of the $295 million remaining on his contract.
Jon Morosi of MLB Network reported the Marlins have "likely" come around on a package highlighted by second baseman Joe Panik, pitching prospect Tyler Beede and outfield prospect Chris Shaw for Stanton. The Giants would, in exchange, have to assume the vast majority of Stanton's contract, which is the impetus for Miami looking to deal the reigning NL MVP.  
Stanton, 28, hit .281/.376/.631 with 59 home runs and 132 runs batted in this past season. His 59 home runs were the most in MLB since 2001, when Sammy Sosa hit 61 and Barry Bonds set the single-season record with 73.
Rumors have been persistent about a trade since the Marlins were sold to a group that includes former Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter. 
"It's an interesting feeling and situation for me,” Stanton told reporters last month. "This is the only place I've known, but I also understand the business part of it and the direction the new ownership wants to go.
"The thoughts [this week] were up and down. ... Everything that's going on, how is this going to turn out, what's going to happen with my team and my teammates and me, etc. It's a lot of thoughts going on, but luckily I don't have to worry about playing at 7 o'clock every night [with] those thoughts.”
The Giants are coming off a disappointing 64-98 season but are expected to be major players this winter. Adding Stanton could be the first domino in an active offseason as they try to rebound from a massive downturn few saw coming.




The New York Yankees and Miami Marlins have reportedly had discussions regarding superstar slugger Giancarlo Stanton, according to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports.
Per that report, "the Yankees would have to include some combination of Jacoby Ellsbury, Chase Headley and maybe Brett Gardner to make their tax goal still work. And while it's a long shot, technically it's doable." 
As Heyman noted, the Yankees have the young prospects to make a deal work. Per Jim Callis of MLB.com, the New York has the No. 8 farm system in all of baseball.
So the bigger issue would be the money considerations given the 10 years and $295 million left on Stanton's contract. While Miami would likely absorb some of that money, the Yankees would still be undertaking a huge financial commitment. 
As Heyman wrote:
"The key for the Yankees, of course, is their long-stated desire to get under the tax threshold so they can reset their tax rate and play next winter when several stars are hitting the market, including Bryce Harper, Manny Machado (an even more likely target for them than Harper), possibly Clayton Kershaw, Josh Donaldson and many others."
The other issue in sending salaries the other way would be the fact that Ellsbury has a no-trade clause and reportedly doesn't want to leave the Yankees. 
And, of course, there is the fact that a number of teams have been rumored to be interested in Stanton.
Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com reported earlier in the week that the San Francisco Giants and St. Louis Cardinals were the most engaged teams in Stanton trade talks, but previous reports have also linked teams like the Philadelphia Phillies and Boston Red Sox to the slugger, while the Los Angeles Dodgers reportedly top Stanton's wish list.
It shouldn't come to a surprise that Stanton's future is by far and away the biggest storyline of the MLB offseason. The defending NL MVP is coming off a season in which he hit 59 home runs and 132 RBI, both the best in baseball, and until he's moved, the rest of the league will be in something of a holding pattern.
Stanton is the main domino, with a number of teams seemingly remaining in the sweepstakes, including the Yankees.



Baseball fans were treated to a brilliant postseason that featured the Los Angeles Dodgers dethroning the Chicago Cubs in the National League Championship Series and the Houston Astros eliminating the New York Yankees in seven games in the American League Championship Series.
The Astros and Dodgers engaged in a memorable seven-game World Series that saw Houston win the first championship in the team's history.
Dodgers fans supported their team with unabated noise in their wins in Los Angeles, and Astros fans may have been even louder at Minute Maid Park in Houston.
A good argument can be made that either stadium is the toughest place to play in baseball. However, we are not going with the venues that are top of mind.
Instead, we will go north of the border to the Rogers Centre in Toronto as the most intense place to play in Major League Baseball.
Rogers Centre was called the SkyDome when it opened in June 1989.
The architecture of the building allows the roof to be open on sunny days and warm nights in Toronto, but it can also be closed during the cooler weather that impacts the Canadian city in the early part of the season and again at the end of the year.
The closed roof keeps the noise in the stadium and doesn't allow it to escape, which means the sound of the fans can be deafening.
The Toronto Blue Jays joined the American League in 1977 as an expansion team.
When the Blue Jays started to play, their fans were supportive of the home team and polite to the visitors. They were in a learning process when it came to Major League Baseball and discovered quickly how to support their team.
As the longtime home of the National Hockey League's Toronto Maple Leafs, the Blue Jays fans learned how to bring their team raucous support.
By the mid-1980s, Blue Jays fans supported their team as well as long-standing fans in New York, Boston, Philadelphia and Chicago.
The Toronto Blue Jays won back-to-back World Series titles in 1992 and 1993, and both times their crazed fans supported them in ear-splitting fashion.
The Blue Jays defeated the favored Atlanta Braves in six games in 1992, and they came back the following year with a six-game triumph over the Philadelphia Phillies.
The win over the Phillies was remarkable, and the sixth game ended with slugger Joe Carter hammering a three-run home run in the bottom of the ninth inning.
Carter hit the homer off Philadelphia pitcher Mitch Williams, who took the mound with a 6-5 lead in the bottom of the ninth.
The Toronto fans had jeered Williams by cheering his name when he entered the game, and that could not have helped the relief pitcher perform in this game.
There have been many noisy postseason games over the years, but Game 5 between the Toronto Blue Jays and Kansas City Royals at the Rogers Centre was different.
Not only were Blue Jays fans incredibly loud and supportive during Toronto's 7-1 victory, they may have had an impact on the way the game was umpired.
Kansas City pitcher Edinson Volquez surmised that home plate umpire Dan Iassogna was intimidated when he made a ball-four call on a sixth-inning pitch that appeared to strike out Jose Bautista.
"He (Iassogna) might get nervous a little bit," Volquez said afterward, per Steve Buffery of the Toronto Sun. "It's a big game for Toronto. The fans all over him, probably."

When former New York Yankee Nick Swisher referred to Blue Jays fans as the rudest in baseball, Toronto Globe and Mail columnist Mark Kingwell was not up in arms.
Instead, he decided to take a clear look at the behavior of the supporters. He came up with the conclusion that they took every opportunity to insult and intimidate opposing players in any way possible.
"The Jays' New Millennium fans seem hell-bent on the hockeyization of baseball, with the hurling of beer cans, racial insults and water bottles, directly at opposing players from the upper decks of the chaotic SkyDome–a stadium that corporate influence forces me to call, in this forum, the Rogers Centre," Kingwell wrote.
Kingwell pointed to a late-season series in 2016 with the Baltimore Orioles in which players were forced to avoid objects thrown from the stands and also endured racial insults.
Kingwell was duly embarrassed by the tone and attitude of Toronto's baseball fans.
"We're not PolitenessLand anymore (maybe we never were). Instead, we're the Broad Street Bullies of Baseball, the continent's backward louts of lousy conduct."
The Broad Street Bullies was the nickname given to the Philadelphia Flyers in the mid-1970s. While the Flyers were a championship team in 1974 and 1975 and adored by their home city, they were hated by much of the NHL; when they were defeated by the Montreal Canadiens in 1976, the hockey world breathed a sigh of relief.
Now a hometown columnist has compared the local fans to one of the most despised hockey teams of all time. That's what makes the Rogers Centre the most intense place to play in baseball.



Washington Nationals general manager Mike Rizzo is confident the club can compete to keep superstar outfielder Bryce Harper despite the massive contract offers the slugger could receive if he enters free agency after the 2018 MLB season.
On Wednesday, Jamal Collier of MLB.com passed along comments Rizzo made about the situation during an appearance on the MLB Network.
"I think we have as good a chance to sign him long-term as anybody in baseball," he said. "He's the type of iconic, historic type of player that would love to be with the same organization throughout his whole career, such as [Derek] Jeter and that group of guys. I think he wants to be here. We want him here. I think there's an opportunity for him to make history here."
Harper was selected by the Nats with the first overall pick in the 2010 draft and made a rapid ascent through the minor leagues before making his MLB debut in 2012. He was named the National League's Most Valuable Player in 2015 and has earned five All-Star Game selections in six seasons.
Rizzo believes the 25-year-old Las Vegas native's connection with the organization could help the front office in contract negotiations over the next year.
"We have a lot of things going for us," he said on the MLB Network. "Bryce and I are very close, we dealt with Bryce's agents on many, many occasions. We have a great relationship with the company. Bryce was scouted, drafted, signed and developed here in Washington. It's his home away from home, and I think he loves the fan base and loves the city."
As always, the biggest question is whether the Nationals will have the financial resources to match baseball's top spenders in a likely bidding war next winter.
The right fielder hasn't discussed his long-term outlook much publicly, but in February 2016 he was asked on WJFK Radio about potentially signing a $400 million contract and replied by saying that sounded low, per Chris Lingebach of CBS DC.
"Yeah, I mean I don't really think about that stuff. I just try to play the years out and do everything I can to help my team win," Harper said. "But don't sell me short. That's what you're doing right now to me, so don't do that."
An American League general manager told Eddie Matz of ESPN.com in June the overall value of the contract could come close to $600 million if Harper is willing to sign for 15 years, which would probably cover the rest of his career.
"Four hundred million is light," the GM said. "It's going to be more than that. If you could sign him to a 15-year contract, you do it. I would say something in the range of $35 million a year, maybe closer to the high 30s. It could approach 40 million dollars a year."
Harper didn't do anything to hurt that value during the 2017 campaign. He posted a .319/.413/.595 triple-slash line and crushed 29 homers in just 111 games for Washington.



Every MLB team enters the offseason with multiple needs. There's no such thing as a squad with only one item on its winter shopping list, and that includes the legitimate World Series hopefuls.
Here's a thought exercise, though: What if all 30 clubs had to narrow it down to a single area? What, in other words, is the biggest hole your favorite franchise is most desperate to fill?
Let's take a look, keeping in mind that levels of desperation will vary depending on the strength of the roster in question and the team's aspirations for 2018 and beyond.
In certain cases, the glaring need is evident; in others it's a coin-toss.

Houston Astros: A late-inning reliever
The Houston Astros won the first championship in franchise history in spite of a bullpen that posted a 5.40 postseason ERA.
Closer Ken Giles (11.74 ERA in seven games) set the inauspicious tone, but the entire relief corps wobbled, forcing manager A.J. Hinch to rely heavily on members of his starting rotation.
Now, as they embark on their repeat journey with few other glaring needs, the 'Stros should go hard after the top free-agent relievers on the market, including proven late-inning aces Wade Davis and Greg Holland.
With few other obvious holes, this is where Houston should expend its energy and resources.
   
Los Angeles Angels: A front-line starting pitcher
The Los Angeles Angels began their offseason by signing outfielder Justin Upton to a five-year, $106 million contract extension. That doesn't solve the club's offensive issues, but it ensures Mike Trout won't be stranded alone in the Halos lineup.
More pressingly, the Angels need to acquire a front-line starting pitcher.
Garrett Richards is an ace when healthy, but he pitched in just six games in 2017 while recovering from an elbow ailment. Matt Shoemaker is coming off forearm surgery, while Andrew Heaney and Tyler Skaggs have also battled injuries.
The Angels are stretched thin financially by Albert Pujols' contract and lack the farm system to swing a major trade, but they need to be in on the market's top arms if they want to avoid wasting another year of Trout's prime.
   
Oakland Athletics: A catcher
The Oakland Athletics kicked off their latest rebuild at the 2017 trade deadline and continued it in the offseason when they shipped infielder/designated hitter Ryon Healy to the Seattle Mariners.
The A's clearly won't chase any of the winter's top names. They could use an upgrade at catcher, however, where Bruce Maxwell—who hit .237 in 76 games and was arrested in early November on gun charges—tops the depth chart.
There are options on the market who wouldn't bust the bank, including veteran Alex Avila, whose robust .351 on-base percentage and ability to handle a young Oakland staff could be attractive to executive Billy Beane.
   
Seattle Mariners: A front-line starting pitcher
The Seattle Mariners rotation was beset by injuries last season, forcing the M's to send 17 different starters to the hill.
Felix Hernandez has officially fallen from his throne, Mike Leake is a mid-rotation option at best and 29-year-old James Paxton has never reached 150 innings in a season.
The M's have a more-than-competent offense and a shot to grab a wild-card spot, but they need a reliable stud.
Two-way Japanese star Shohei Ohtani is Seattle's dream target, but general manager Jerry Dipoto should also be in on the likes of Yu Darvish and Jake Arrieta as he seeks to end the franchise's 16-year postseason drought.
   
Texas Rangers: A front-line starting pitcher
The Texas Rangers have ceded Lone Star State supremacy to the Astros. Now, they're trying to remain in the AL playoff picture.
To do that, they'll need an impact arm to join left-hander Cole Hamels, who posted a 4.20 ERA in 2017 and saw his strikeouts per nine innings dip from 9.0 to 6.4.
The Rangers traded Darvish to the Dodgers at the 2017 deadline and could lose Andrew Cashner to free agency. With the rest of the rotation uncertain, Texas needs to go hard after an ace or risk slipping further down the relevance ladder.

Chicago White Sox: A mid-level starting pitcher
The Chicago White Sox are in the midst of an exciting rebuild, with a loaded farm system and a bright future dawning on the South Side.
The Sox's starting rotation could soon feature tantalizing young arms such as Michael Kopech, Lucas Giolito, Reynaldo Lopez and Carlos Rodon. In the here and now, they need to add reasonably priced innings-eaters to augment their developing core.
Chicago isn't going to break the bank for a pricey free agent, but a pitcher or pitchers in the Jeremy Hellickson/Tyson Ross/Scott Feldman mold would fit the bill.
   
Cleveland Indians: A first baseman
Carlos Santana is one of the more underrated bats on the 2017-18 free-agent market.
The 31-year-old has averaged 24 home runs a season over the past seven years for the Cleveland Indians, boasts a .365 career on-base percentage and posted 10 defensive runs saved at first base in 2017.
He won't command a nine-figure contract, but he may well price out of the Tribe's generally modest range.
That would leave the Indians searching for a power-hitting first baseman on the bargain shelves, and perhaps rolling the dice on a lesser name such as Mitch Moreland or Mike Napoli.
Cleveland did toss three years and $60 million at Edwin Encarnacion last offseason, but that was the richest contract in franchise history.
   
Detroit Tigers: A mid-level starting pitcher
The Detroit Tigers initiated a long-overdue rebuild at the 2017 trade deadline, but they could still be in the market for starting pitching, according to general manager Al Avila.
"We definitely need some pitching help," Avila said during the GM meetings in Orlando, per Anthony Fenech of the Detroit Free Press. "Ideally, probably add a couple of starters."
Fenech name-dropped Chris Tillman, Miguel Gonzalez, Matt Garza and Cashner among possible targets. 
The Tigers' priority should be offloading any remaining tradable veterans and further restocking the farm system. Picking up a pitcher or two capable of chewing innings is also on the list.
   
Kansas City Royals: A center fielder
The Kansas City Royals could lose most of the core that won them a pennant in 2014 and a championship in 2015.
First baseman Eric Hosmer and third baseman Mike Moustakas are both set to hit the open market, and both could command contracts beyond K.C.'s means.
The biggest loss, however, may be in center field, where Lorenzo Cain is also a free agent.
The 31-year-old will have multiple suitors after hitting .300 with 26 stolen bases and 15 home runs. The best option to replace him on the Royals roster, meanwhile, is 32-year-old Paulo Orlando and his .198 2017 average.
Impact center fielders are a rare commodity, and the Royals will be hard-pressed to replace Cain if he walks. In a winter of transition, this might be their toughest loss.
   
Minnesota Twins: A front-line starting pitcher
After rebounding from a 103-loss season to claim the AL's second wild-card, the Minnesota Twins will look to amplify their success in 2018.
That'll require adding at least one arm to supplement right-hander Ervin Santana, after whom the starting rotation is a mishmash of youngsters and question marks.
Hence word from general manager Thad Levine that Darvish is "a priority," per Jim Duquette of MLB Network Radio. Levine also said the Twinkies will pursue Ohtani.
Minnesota can't be considered a front-runner for either, but their pursuit indicates a desire to dramatically upgrade the rotation.

Baltimore Orioles: A front-line starting pitcher
Dylan Bundy and Kevin Gausman both posted plus-4.00 ERAs in 2017, and they're the good news in a shaky Baltimore Orioles starting rotation.
Overall, O's starters posted an abysmal 5.70 ERA in 2017. Tillman, Hellickson, Ubaldo Jimenez and Wade Miley are all free agents. And the Orioles farm system is bereft of MLB-ready pitching talent.
That means Baltimore needs to pursue any and all impact arms if it hopes to maintain contact with the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox in the AL East.
   
Boston Red Sox: A power-hitting first baseman
The Red Sox hit the fewest home runs in the American League last season and the 27th fewest in baseball. That simply won't do.
Boston needs an injection of power, and the most obvious place to get it is at first base. Mitch Moreland is a free agent, and the options after him range from unproven (rookie Sam Travis) to untenable (creaky veteran Hanley Ramirez).
There are multiple names on the market, including Logan Morrison, Yonder Alonso and Lucas Duda. The best fit might be Carlos Santana, whose pop and plate discipline would complement the Red Sox's emerging offensive nucleus. 
   
New York Yankees: A starting pitcher
The Yankees' first two orders of business are hiring a manager to replace deposed Joe Girardi and embarking on their inevitable pursuit of Ohtani.
If they land the Japanese stud, their starting rotation will be set with Sonny Gray, Luis Severino, Masahiro Tanaka and Jordan Montgomery already in the fold.
If they whiff on Ohtani, the Yanks should sign another arm rather than counting on the likes of Luis Cessa (4.75 ERA) and Bryan Mitchell (5.79 ERA).
New York blossomed ahead of schedule and got within a win of the World Series. Now isn't the time for executive Brian Cashman to take his foot off the accelerator.
   
Tampa Bay Rays: A power-hitting first baseman
After inking Logan Morrison to a one-year, $2.5 million contract, the Tampa Bay Rays watched him slug 38 homers and post an .868 OPS. Talk about bang for your buck.
That enviable production means Morrison will almost surely sign a longer, more lucrative contract elsewhere. 
The Rays could turn to 22-year-old Jake Bauers—their No. 5 prospect, per MLB.com—or hope for more from Brad Miller, who hit .201 in 110 games.
More likely, they'll go shopping from a shelf that includes Moreland, Napoli and Adam Lind.
   
Toronto Blue Jays: A right fielder
After finishing 10 games under .500 and 17 games out in the AL East, the Toronto Blue Jays are apparently planning to make another run.
General manager Ross Atkins said the team intends to "add one impact arm and one impact position player for sure," per Ben Nicholson-Smith of Sportsnet.ca.
They could use help in the rotation and bullpen, but their most glaring hole is in right field, where franchise icon Jose Bautista is exiting after a dreadful farewell season.
Teoscar Hernandez impressed during a 26-game audition after coming over from the Astros in a deadline trade, but he's far from a sure bet. 
Fortunately for the Jays, there are intriguing-if-flawed options on the market, including Jay Bruce and three-time All-Star Carlos Gonzalez, who could possibly be had on a short-term, show-me contract. 

Arizona Diamondbacks: A late-inning reliever
The Arizona Diamondbacks are probably going to lose outfielder J.D. Martinez and his sweet, sweet dingers to a nine-figure, free-agent payday. If so, they may go shopping, or count on in-house options such as Yasmany Tomas to bounce back and pick up the slack.
The larger issue could be in the bullpen, however. Closer Fernando Rodney was far from exemplary in 2017, but his potential departure leaves a hole in the relief corps.
Right-hander Archie Bradley (1.73 ERA) could assume closing duties. If he does, the Snakes will need to fill his role as setup man. If he doesn't, they'll need a ninth-inning guy.
Either way, Arizona should mine a market that features seasoned relievers such as Wade Davis, Greg Holland and Addison Reed.
   
Colorado Rockies: A late-inning reliever
The Colorado Rockies bullpen went from a 5.13 ERA in 2016 to a 4.40 ERA in 2017. Not coincidentally, the Rockies made the playoffs for the first time since 2009 and only the fourth time in franchise history.
Holland, Neshek and left-hander Jake McGee, all key members of Colorado's pen, are free agents. A strength could become a weakness in a mile high minute.
Convincing elite pitchers to come to Coors Field is a tough sell, but the Rockies need to dive deep into the relief-pitcher market if they want to maintain contact with the D-backs and Los Angeles Dodgers out West.
   
Los Angeles Dodgers: A setup reliever
The Dodgers are stacked up and down the roster. That's why they're the defending NL champs.
However, they could lose a key piece of their bullpen in setup man Brandon Morrow. The 33-year-old posted a 2.06 ERA and 10.3 strikeouts per nine innings behind closer Kenley Jansen, giving L.A. a lethal late-inning combo.
The Dodgers might bring Morrow back, though his price tag is sure to rise precipitously. They could also go after one or more of the previously mentioned arms.
What they can't do is let Morrow leave and stand pat.
   
San Diego Padres: A back-of-the-rotation starting pitcher
The San Diego Padres have pitching talent in the pipeline, with prospects such as MacKenzie Gore, Cal Quantrill, Adrian Morejon and Anderson Espinoza hoping to make an impact down the road.
For now, the rebuilding Friars need placeholders to fill out the rotation behind Clayton Richard and youngsters Dinelson Lamet and Luis Perdomo.
Don't expect a splash on the level of Darvish or Arrieta, or even an arm from the next tier. San Diego would be a good landing spot for a guy like Tillman, however, who could rebuild his value in a low-pressure environment while plying his trade at pitcher-friendly Petco Park.
   
San Francisco Giants: A power-hitting corner outfielder
Not sure if you've heard, but the San Francisco Giants are in on Giancarlo Stanton.
After finishing dead last in baseball in home runs and OPS in 2017, the Giants have been in hot pursuit of the Miami Marlins masher this winter, and made a formal trade proposal to the Fish.
San Francisco's outfield was a mess last season, with veterans Denard Span and Hunter Pence wobbling in center field and right field, respectively, and left field devolving into a tire fire. That's not the only reason San Francisco lost 98 games, but it's high on the list.
Stanton and his 59 home runs would go a long way toward rectifying the situation, even if acquiring him would decimate the Giants' payroll and gut their farm system.
No matter what, San Francisco needs to inject some power, and the outfield is the most obvious place to do it. 

Chicago Cubs: A front-line starting pitcher
The Chicago Cubs could lose closer Wade Davis, weakening a bullpen that was exposed during the 2017 postseason. They also could lose Arrieta and veteran right-hander John Lackey, opening two holes in the starting rotation.
There's a case to be made for either one being their biggest issue, but we'll go with the starting rotation.
Jon Lester is entering his age-34 campaign, lefty Jose Quintana is coming off an up-and-down year and control artist Kyle Hendricks has never eclipsed 200 frames in a season. 
The Cubs could use another ace as they try to hang with the Dodgers for the Senior Circuit's alpha-dog position.
Whether it's inking Darvish, reuniting with Arrieta or wooing Ohtani, executive Theo Epstein has his work cut out for him.
   
Cincinnati Reds: A starting pitcher
The Cincinnati Reds are rebuilding. Their 2018 starting rotation could feature an array of unproven arms. As such, they could use at least one reasonably priced innings-eater.
Forget Darvish, Arrieta and Ohtani. Sail past the the next tier of names, including Lance Lynn and Alex Cobb.
The Reds should go bargain shopping and look for arms that can be had on the cheap and will take pressure off their hurlers of the future. Think Francisco Liriano or Jesse Chavez.
It isn't sexy, but it's a necessary part of the process.
   
Milwaukee Brewers: A front-line starting pitcher
After giving the Cubs a shocking challenge in 2017, the Milwaukee Brewers will try to break through and make the playoffs.
Their offense was buoyed by big contributions from third baseman Travis Shaw and first baseman Eric Thames, who smacked a combined 62 home runs.
On the pitching side, Chase Anderson and Jimmy Nelson led a surprising rotation, but Anderson has yet to reach 160 innings in a season and Nelson is recovering from shoulder surgery.
The Brew Crew should resist any offers to trade talent from their well-stocked farm system. They should, however, try to sign at least one top-tier arm, even if it means increasing a payroll that Spotrac ranks 26th in the game.
   
Pittsburgh Pirates: A left-handed reliever
If the Pittsburgh Pirates opt to dismantle the ship and start over, they'll aggressively shop outfielder Andrew McCutchen, ace Gerrit Cole and any other pieces that can return a prospect haul.
If they decide to make another run at the postseason, their most obvious need is a left-handed reliever.
On Monday, the Bucs claimed lefty Sam Moll off waivers from Oakland, per MLB.com's Adam Berry, meaning they now have four southpaw relievers on their 40-man roster: Moll, Jack Leathersich, Nik Turley and closer Felipe Rivero. 
None besides Rivero is a sure thing, meaning the Pirates could keep shopping from a list that includes decent options such as Fernando Abad and Jake McGee.
   
St. Louis Cardinals: A power bat
The St. Louis Cardinals don't have any glaring holes. The (hopeful) return of top pitching prospect Alex Reyes from Tommy John surgery boosts the starting rotation. The bullpen could use reinforcements but isn't a disaster. The lineup is littered with quality hitters.
What the Cards lack is a legitimate basher to tie it all together.
Hence the rumors and chatter linking St. Louis to Stanton. As with San Francisco, the Marlins slugger could deplete the Cardinals farm system and burden their payroll, but he'd also strike fear in the hearts of all opponents—including the rival Cubs—and could get the Redbirds back among the NL elite.

Atlanta Braves: A third baseman
The Atlanta Braves are still reeling from the international signing scandal that cost them 13 prospects and led MLB to ban former general manager John Coppolella for life.
Still, baseball goes on, and the Braves remain a rebuilding team on the rise with some high-level prospects knocking on the door of the big leagues.
One position where Atlanta lacks depth is third base. The Braves could roll with the duo of 23-year-old Johan Camargo and 23-year-old Rio Ruiz, but neither is a lock to perform adequately over a full season.
The free-agent shelves aren't bursting with third basemen, but Atlanta could target versatile speedster Eduardo Nunez or a veteran power bat such as Todd Frazier to balance its youthful lineup.
   
Miami Marlins: A starting pitcher
The Marlins' goal this winter is to shed salary. Giancarlo Stanton is the big fish, but look for the new ownership group led by Derek Jeter to explore trades for any and all assets.
It's safe to say, then, that the Marlins won't be in on Yu Darvish or Jake Arrieta. Still, they could use some help in the rotation after their starters finished 26th in baseball with a 5.12 ERA and only Dan Straily and Jose Urena made more than 20 starts.
A veteran such as Wade Miley could chew innings and would come cheap. It's not inspiring, but Marlins fans need to prepare themselves for the choppy waters ahead.
   
New York Mets: A reliable relief pitcher
The New York Mets are crossing their fingers for a healthy rotation. Noah Syndergaard, Steven Matz and Zack Wheeler all battled injuries in 2017, and Matt Harvey is an enigma. Yet, if that group can rebound alongside Jacob deGrom, New York's starting core could again be a strength.
It's a huge "if," which makes it tempting to suggest New York should target a starter such as Lance Lynn or John Lackey.
The more pressing need, however, could be in the bullpen. Mets relievers ranked 29th in baseball with a 4.82 ERA last season, and the club has few palatable options beyond AJ Ramos, Jeurys Familia and Jerry Blevins.
A reunion with Addison Reed is a possibility, or the Mets could dip into a group of proven bullpen assets that includes Brandon Kintzler and Pat Neshek.
   
Philadelphia Phillies: A starting pitcher
The Philadelphia Phillies have a massive amount of payroll flexibility. They're also a young, rebuilding franchise that was recently buried under the weight of bad contracts.
The key, then, is to spend smart.
The Phils are unlikely to throw nine figures at anyone, but they can and should explore the market for a veteran starter or two to augment a rotation that features 24-year-old Aaron Nola, 27-year-old Jerad Eickhoff and 25-year-old Vince Velasquez, assuming he's healthy.
The Phillies aren't going to contend in 2018, but they should spend some of their capital to ease the workload on their young arms.
   
Washington Nationals: A late-inning reliever
With right fielder Bryce Harper, second baseman Daniel Murphy and left-hander Gio Gonzalez all entering their contract years, the Washington Nationals are in full-throttle win-now mode.
They're also a pretty complete team capable of contending as constructed.
The Nats could use help in the bullpen, which they fortified last season with the additions of Sean Doolittle, Ryan Madson and Brandon Kintzler.
Kintzler is a free agent, as are Matt Albers, Joe Blanton and Oliver Perez, which means Washington needs to get busy.
Re-upping some or all of their own free-agent relievers would be a start, but the Nationals should also target the likes of Greg Holland and Wade Davis.
The Harper era is probably ending after 2018. It's time to pull out all the stops.
   
All statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference and MLB.com unless otherwise noted. 


Subject: Fwd: https://t.co/AImGeIAlyG
Don Mattingly is set to serve as manager of the Miami Marlins for at least one more season, but that isn't stopping Jose Canseco from shooting his shot.
On Wednesday evening, Canseco tweeted a video that included a brief message to Miami CEO and part owner Derek Jeter.
"Derek Jeter, it's Jose Canseco. If you're looking for a manager, I'm the man for the job," the former slugger confidently stated.
If nothing else, Canseco's postgame press conferences would be must-see television.
[Twitter]



Former Seattle Mariners second baseman Bret Boone apologized Wednesday after he sent unsolicited direct messages to Seattle PI journalist Stephen Cohen on Twitter making light of sexual harassment.
The messages that prompted the apology can be viewed below, courtesy of Cohen's Twitter account:
Ta-da... https://t.co/rx1CvM0sq1
"All, there are zero excuses for what I said earlier," Boone later wrote on Twitter. "None. It was 100% wrong. It was offensive. It was inappropriate. It was not remotely productive to any conversation regarding harassment. I apologize and it will never happen again."
According to Cohen, who wrote a column explaining the ordeal, Boone direct-messaged him after he tweeted his disappointment regarding allegations of "inappropriate behavior" against public radio host Garrison Keillor that surfaced Wednesday.
Cohen added that after the DMs were made public, Boone "messaged several of my colleagues and others on Twitter, explaining that he was 'sick of bulls--t people' and was simply 'being real and telling it like it is.'"



Yasmani Grandal took a backseat during the Los Angeles Dodgers' run to the World Series, and the team is now reportedly "willing" to move the catcher this offseason.
Jon Morosi of MLB Network reported the news Wednesday, citing rival clubs as the source and noting Grandal started just two of Los Angeles' 15 playoff games. Austin Barnes started the remaining contests, suggesting Grandal could be expendable.
Barnes is 27 years old and Grandal is 29, but there is more to this potential move than age difference. Morosi said it was "a reasonable conclusion" to assume Barnes will be the Dodgers' starting catcher in 2018, which would make Grandal "a very expensive backup, even for [the] biggest-spending MLB team."
Grandal would be a power-hitting addition to any lineup in the league at a position not always known for its sluggers. He drilled 22 home runs in 2017 after he blasted a career-high 27 long balls the previous year and has hit at least 15 homers four straight seasons.
He slashed .247/.308/.459 in 2017, which marked his highest batting average since he was a rookie in 2012.
What's more, he also improved his defense in 2017.
According to FanGraphs, Grandal was responsible for five total defensive runs saved above average at catcher last season, the first time he posted a positive number in the stat since he was a rookie. He also threw out a career-high 32.3 percent of base stealers, per ESPN.com.
While the Dodgers may be shifting their attention behind the plate toward Barnes, Grandal could provide a catching update for a number of suitors this offseason.



The Boston Red Sox are reportedly one of several teams in trade talks with the Chicago White Sox about first baseman Jose Abreu, according to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports.
Heyman noted that the Red Sox had been one of four finalists to sign Abreu, along with the Milwaukee Brewers and Houston Astros, when he inked a six-year, $68 million deal with the White Sox in Oct. 2013.
Abreu, 30, hit .304 with 33 home runs and 102 RBI in 2017, his fourth straight season with at least 25 homers and 100 RBI.
His consistent production has made him one of the best power hitters in baseball. With the White Sox clearly in rebuilding mode—they lost 95 games in 2017 after trading Chris Sale to Boston and outfielder Adam Eaton to the Washington Nationals before the season—he's an excellent trade chip as they continue to acquire young, talented prospects.
Jim Callis of MLB.com ranks the White Sox as having the top-rated farm system in all of baseball. The Red Sox, meanwhile, have just two prospects in MLB.com's top-100 rankings: pitcher Jay Groome and third baseman Michael Chavis. By contrast, the White Sox have six.
The Red Sox would have to tap into a thin farm system to pull the trigger on an Abreu deal. On the other hand, Abreu is a reliable power bat and is due a reasonable $11.5 million next season and $12 million in 2019, per Craig Calcaterra of Hardball Talk.
That makes the Red Sox logical trade partners with Chicago as Boston looks to rebound from a disappointing ALDS defeat this past season. For a White Sox team that is looking to the future rather than the present, dealing Abreu this winter would likely maximize his value.



Following a 2016 offseason in which proven starting pitching was hard to come by, MLB teams have quite a few more options this winter on the free-agent market.
Yu Darvish, Alex Cobb, Jake Arrieta and Lance Lynn are among the marquee names available to offer immediate help in the starting rotation.
The reliever market is a little more thin, which is a stark contrast to a year ago, when Kenley Jansen, Aroldis Chapman and Mark Melancon all received new deals. Greg Holland, Wade Davis and Jake McGee headline the 2017 class.
Below is the most recent buzz surrounding some of the top arms in free agency.
                  
Multiple Teams Register Interest in Jake Arrieta

According to the Boston Globe's Nick Cafardo, the Milwaukee Brewers, Minnesota Twins, Toronto Blue Jays, Colorado Rockies and Texas Rangers have all "checked in" with Arrieta's agent, Scott Boras. Cafardo reported a return to the Chicago Cubs isn't out of the question for the right-hander, either.
While Arrieta is two years removed from winning the National League Cy Young Award, he could be a somewhat risky signing.
Since he's the second-best pitcher on the free-agent market behind Darvish, Arrieta is in a position to command a lucrative multiyear extension.
His performance, however, has trended slightly downward since his Cy Young year in 2015. His 4.16 FIP last season was his highest since 2013, and he allowed 1.23 home runs per nine innings, which were his most since 2012.
To be fair, Arrieta was very good in the second half of last year. His 2.28 ERA after the halfway mark was a little over two runs better than his first-half ERA (4.35). If Arrieta can carry his second half into the 2018 season, then he'll once again be among MLB's best aces.
The Twins and Rockies could be the most interesting suitors for Arrieta's services. Colorado and Minnesota both have young starters who should be staples of the rotation for years to come—Jon Gray for the Rockies and Jose Berrios for the Twins. Each franchise needs to add another established starter, though, before it can seriously contend for a pennant.
That kind of motivation could give Minnesota or Colorado the push necessary to possibly overpay for Arrieta in order to lure him away from richer contenders.
     
Twins Less Aggressive with Plan to Improve Bullpen

In addition to Arrieta, the Twins have Darvish on the radar this offseason.
"I've been in contact with Darvish along the way, and we're having active convos with his agent," said general manager Thad Levine in an interview on MLB Network Radio. "He's also a priority for us."
Mike Berardino of the Pioneer Press reported the Twins have also thrown around a potential trade for Gerrit Cole or Jake Odorizzi.
While Minnesota is thinking big in terms of upgrading its rotation, Berardino added the same approach doesn't apply to the bullpen:
As for #mntwins bullpen search, that's a back-burner item for now. Rotation is main focus. They won't be playing at Davis/Holland table but next-tier FA types such as Shaw/McGee/Watson/Kintzler remain plausible.
It wouldn't be all that surprising if the race to sign Davis and Holland is relatively tame compared to the respective pursuits of Jansen, Chapman and Melancon. Davis' 2.30 ERA and 3.38 FIP were his worst since becoming a regular reliever for the Kansas City Royals in 2014, while Holland missed all of 2016 to recover from Tommy John surgery.
According to Brooks Baseball, Holland's fastball averaged 93.81 mph in 2017, whereas he was comfortably hovering around 96 mph with his fastball during his time in Kansas City. Holland had a very good bounce-back season with the Rockies; whether he can replicate that in 2018 and beyond is another matter.
Relief pitchers generally age less gracefully than starters. Davis and Holland are both 32, so they've both already likely enjoyed their peak performance years on the mound.
Rather than meet Davis' or Holland's asking price in free agency, some contending teams may wait to see how things shake out to start the 2018 season and look to acquire a proven reliever through trade.
     
Rangers 'Showing Sustained Interest' in Lance Lynn, Alex Cobb

NBC Sports Boston's Evan Drellich reported the Rangers have already signed Doug Fister. According to MLB Network's Jon Morosi, that won't be the extent of Texas' free-agent business:
Sources: #Rangers showing sustained interest in free agents Alex Cobb and Lance Lynn, even after reaching agreement with Doug Fister. @MLBNetwork @MLB
The Dallas Morning News' Evan Grant wrote that signing Fister is supposed to be "a portal to bigger moves," with Lynn and Cobb as Texas' "most realistic top-tier candidates."
"There is not a great deal of separation between the two; Cobb is probably a slightly better fit for the Rangers, but truth is, if either one is willing to take about $15 million a year for four years, the Rangers aren't going to get too picky over which one it is," Grant wrote.
It'd be a stretch to say money is no object for the Rangers; otherwise, they'd be looking for a reunion with Darvish or be willing to pay what it takes to bring Arrieta aboard. Texas should still have enough money available to have its choice of Cobb or Lynn.
Neither pitcher has a discernible edge over the other. Lynn has historically allowed more walks (3.40 per nine innings) compared to Cobb (2.62 walks per nine innings), but he also has struck out more than one batter per nine innings (8.46) than Cobb (7.33).
Cobb's fly-ball percentage (26.0) could make him the slightly more sensible target. Lynn's 34.6 percent fly-ball rate may present a bigger problem in a hitter-friendly stadium like Globe Life Park.
As long as the Rangers can land one of the two, they'd help stabilize their starting rotation.
          
Stats are courtesy of FanGraphs unless otherwise mentioned.



Major League Baseball's hot-stove season has been anything but since the final out was recorded by the Houston Astros in the World Series on Nov. 1. 
The first real activity from any team came on Monday when T.R. Sullivan of MLB.com reported the Texas Rangers were nearing a one-year deal with free-agent pitcher Doug Fister. 
Fortunately, with the winter meetings set to begin on Dec. 10, it shouldn't take too much longer before players and teams start making their moves. There is also the Shohei Ohtani domino that will fall, leading teams interested in his skill set to look in a different direction. 
Here are the latest trade rumblings to keep an eye on with the winter meetings looming next month. 
         
Red Sox Cool on Giancarlo Stanton

If the Boston Red Sox are going to seek an upgrade for their lineup this season, it may not come from a deal with the Miami Marlins for Giancarlo Stanton. 
Per Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe, the Red Sox's interest in Stanton is "tepid." He does note that is their feeling "for the moment," so it's not as if they are completely opposed to making a significant push.
One potential problem facing the Red Sox and president of baseball operations Dave Dombrowski in a pursuit of Stanton is a diminished farm system. 
Dombrowski has made multiple marquee deals over the past two years that have sapped a lot of Boston's prospect star power. Trades for Craig Kimbrel, Drew Pomeranz and Chris Sale were not cheap. 
Using ESPN's Keith Law's top 10 Red Sox prospects from 2016, Yoan Moncada (No. 2), Anderson Espinoza (No. 4), Michael Kopech (No. 5) and Luis Alexander Basabe (No. 9) have all been dealt. 
Another possible issue for the Red Sox is Stanton's position in right field not lining up with an area they need to address. Mookie Betts is entrenched in right field, and Andrew Benintendi primarily plays in left field. 
Boston's biggest area of need this offseason is first base. Hanley Ramirez should be slotted in at designated hitter to avoid putting extra stress on his body after an injury-plagued 2017. 
Players like Carlos Santana and Eric Hosmer would better line up with what the Red Sox are looking for, though neither would likely provide a big boost to a team that ranked 26th in slugging percentage and 27th in home runs last season. 
Stanton's 59 homers in 2017 were 35 percent of the total home runs hit by the Red Sox (168), and his .631 slugging percentage was 172 points higher than any everyday player in Boston's lineup (Betts: .459). 
One thing Boston wouldn't have to worry about like a lot of teams in on Stanton is money. The Red Sox are projected to have $103 million come off their payroll following the 2018 season, excluding arbitration-eligible players. 
Stanton being owed $295 million over 10 years is a long-term problem, but Dombrowski has never been one to look at the big picture if it gets in the way of winning right now. 
Never underestimate Dombrowski's ability to swoop in at the 11th hour for a big deal. Right now, though, the Red Sox don't feel like a viable option to reel in the 2017 National League MVP. 
        
Rays Selling Again

Despite record revenues for MLB in 2017, the Tampa Bay Rays remain unable to keep up with the times and are reportedly going to cut their payroll before the start of next season. 
Per Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times, the Rays "are going to trade at least a couple of their bigger-name, higher-salaried players in their plan to cut payroll."
Topkin also mentions starting pitcher Jake Odorizzi and closer Alex Colome as being "popular in early conversations" so far. 
Chris Archer is the biggest name the Rays could move, but Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reported on Nov. 13 the team has "no great interest" in dealing the 29-year-old. 
If the Rays want to start a full rebuild, trading Archer would be the easiest way to get a marquee package back. He's still in the prime of his career and is a proven workhorse with three straight years of at least 200 innings and 200 strikeouts. 
Archer's contract also makes it easy for the Rays to ask for a massive haul. He will make approximately $14 million total over the next two seasons, with two options for 2020-21 at $8.25 million. 
Odorizzi has two years of team control left, and Colome can't be a free agent until after 2020, so the Rays can expect a reasonable return for both if their only goal is to control the payroll. 
After going 80-82 last season, the Rays can realistically expect to contend for a wild-card spot. The New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox are still the class of the American League East.
The Rays can't compete with their present talent or financial portfolios, so being aggressive on the trade market is their best way to avoid completely bottoming out. 
         
Braves Shopping Matt Adams

The Atlanta Braves are looking to cash in on Matt Adams' successful 2017 season. 
Per ESPN's Buster Olney, the Braves have been "pushing" Adams on other teams leading up to Friday's deadline to tender a contract to arbitration-eligible players. 
Adams split time with the Braves and St. Louis Cardinals last season, posting a .274/.319/.522 slash line with a career-high 20 home runs in 131 games. 
The 29-year-old Adams is best served in a platoon role, having shown significant splits throughout his career. He owns an .828 OPS in 538 games against right-handed pitchers, compared to .593 in 208 games against left-handed pitchers. 
The Braves don't have an opening for Adams with Freddie Freeman locked in at first base. He's been a solid defender throughout his career, with 14 defensive runs saved in 3,424 innings as a first baseman, per FanGraphs.
Tim Dierkes of MLB Trade Rumors projects Adams to make $4.6 million through arbitration in 2018, so he's not going to be an expensive option for a team in need of help at first base or, for an AL team, designated hitter. 
Considering the expensive contracts it will presumably take to sign Hosmer and Santana, Adams is a solid, cheap alternative for teams to look at. 
       
Contract info via Cot's Baseball Contracts. 



The salary dump is a common move in the NBA, where teams are constantly battling to stay under the salary cap and actively seeking out expiring contracts.
However, the idea is not completely foreign to Major League Baseball.
Chicago Cubs fans might remember when the team shipped outfielder Milton Bradley to the Seattle Mariners in exchange for Carlos Silva in a swap of bad contracts. That's one way to approach a salary dump.
Another is to package something of value with a bad contract in hopes of enticing a team.
A perfect example of this was when the Arizona Diamondbacks attached Bronson Arroyo's bloated contract to pitching prospect Touki Toussaint and sent them to the Atlanta Braves in exchange for utility infielder Phil Gosselin.
So as we get set for the MLB offseason to kick into high gear, ahead is a look at five potential salary-dump trades that could be the answer to moving some of the league's worst contracts.

1 Year Remaining
While these are all bad contracts, we only considered players with multiple years remaining on their deal for this exercise.
     
99.9% Immovable
Never say never, but it's hard to imagine anyone taking on these contracts.
     
San Francisco Giants
If the Giants are, in fact, planning to make a push back toward contention on the heels of a 98-loss season, it's unlikely they'll be looking to sell low on the likes of Johnny Cueto, Jeff Samardzija and Mark Melancon, so they were excluded from consideration.
That trio will earn a whopping $61.8 million in 2018, and they're owed $195.4 million over the remainder of their collective deals.
     
Jason Heyward
Heyward has a bad contract, there's no question.
Assuming he doesn't opt out after the 2018 or 2019 seasons, he's owed $142.5 million through 2023. To this point, he's posted a brutal 76 OPS+ during his time with the Cubs.
However, he's still one of the league's elite defensive players on a team that values those abilities as highly as anyone. He's also an important veteran voice in that young locker room.
The Cubs might be open to moving him, but not in a straight salary dump.

Washington Nationals Receive: SP Jordan Zimmermann, RP Shane Greene, $30 million
Detroit Tigers Receive: RP Shawn Kelley, SP Jaron Long
There's not much to work with on the rumor mill for most bad-contract players, but there have been some rumblings that the Nationals are interested in a reunion with Jordan Zimmermann.
Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe wrote: "The Tigers are hoping that the neck injections Jordan Zimmermann received at the end of the season will allow him to pitch as he once did for the Nationals and become a tradeable commodity again...The Tigers would subsidize some of the contract. The Nationals have some interest as they search for a back-end starter."
The 31-year-old has three years and $74 million remaining on a five-year, $110 million deal. He pitched to a disastrous 5.60 ERA and 1.48 WHIP in his first two seasons in Detroit. Prior to that, he spent the first seven years of his career with the Nats, going 70-50 with a 3.32 ERA while finishing in the top 10 in Cy Young voting twice.
Eating $30 million of that remaining salary would push his annual price tag under $15 million. Throwing in reliever Shane Greene while also taking back the contract of Shawn Kelley could be enough to grease the wheels.
Greene is under control through 2020, and he's coming off a season where he posted a 2.66 ERA and 9.7 K/9 with nine saves and 14 holds in 71 appearances.
Meanwhile, Kelley is owed $5.5 million in the final season of a three-year deal. His 7.27 ERA in 33 games last season was rough, but he has a long track record of success and could turn into a tradable asset if he bounces back.
We'll throw in 26-year-old Jaron Long for good measure. He doesn't offer much in the way of upside, but after posting a 3.61 ERA over 164.1 innings between Double-A and Triple-A this past season, he'd at least be useful depth as the Tigers continue rebuilding.

Detroit Tigers Receive: OF Matt Kemp, SP Bryse Wilson
Atlanta Braves Receive: RP Bruce Rondon
With the Tigers already unloading Jordan Zimmermann in this scenario, they could then explore the idea of taking on a different bad contract for a chance to add more prospect talent.
The Braves are loaded with high-end pitching prospects. Packaging one of their second-tier arms with Matt Kemp could be a way for them to kill two birds with one stone—ridding themselves of Kemp's contract and clearing a path for uber-prospect Ronald Acuna.
Kemp is owed $43.5 million over the next two years, with the Braves on the hook for $31.5 million of that as the Dodgers and Padres are both still paying him.
The top-100-caliber guys—Kolby Allard, Kyle Wright, Mike Soroka, Ian Anderson, Luiz Gohara, Joey Wentz and Max Fried—are off the table, but someone like Bryse Wilson would be a welcome addition to the Detroit rebuild. The 19-year-old was a fourth-round pick in 2016, and he went 10-7 with a 2.50 ERA and 139 strikeouts in 137 innings with Single-A Rome.
MLB.com wrote: "Wilson is strong and durable, not your typical tall and lanky high schooler, so there isn't a ton of projection to him. Some amateur scouts saw a future reliever in him, but he'll begin his Braves career in earnest as a starter and see where it takes him."
The Tigers would be forced to use Kemp in the outfield in 2018 with Victor Martinez still under contract, but he could move into the full-time DH slot in 2019 once he reaches free agency.
This deal wouldn't be about the return package for the Braves, but hard-throwing reliever Bruce Rondon does carry some intrigue. The 26-year-old has struggled at the MLB level (123 G, 5.00 ERA) and is out of minor league options, but a career 10.7 K/9 rate and a 98.5 mph average fastball velocity is enough to warrant a look.
Keep in mind, new Braves general manager Alex Anthopoulos dumped Vernon Wells against all odds during his time in Toronto. He has some experience with this sort of thing.

Baltimore Orioles Receive: SP Homer Bailey, $25 million
Cincinnati Reds Receive: LHP Chris Lee
What were the Reds thinking when they gave Homer Bailey a six-year, $105 million extension?
At the time, they were still a contending team, and Bailey had gone 24-22 with a 3.58 ERA (110 ERA+) and 1.18 WHIP while averaging 32 starts and 208.5 innings over the previous two seasons. Back then, it wasn't entirely unreasonable.
However, the 31-year-old has been hit hard by injuries since signing that deal. He pitched a combined 125.1 innings the past three seasons while undergoing surgery to repair a torn flexor mass tendon in his forearm and then Tommy John surgery.
He finally returned to action in June. While his 6.43 ERA over 18 starts wasn't pretty, he finished strong with a 3.89 ERA in his last six starts—including seven shutout innings against the Brewers in his final appearance.
If the Reds are willing to pay $20 million of the $44 million he's still owed while also taking care of his $5 million buyout in 2020, it would lower his price tag to $12 million per season. That could be enough for a pitching-starved team like the Orioles to take a chance.
The O's ranked last in the majors with a 5.70 starters' ERA last season, and they have three spots to fill in the rotation behind Dylan Bundy and Kevin Gausman.
Going to Cincinnati in this deal is left-hander Chris Lee, who Baseball America ranked as the No. 6 prospect in the Baltimore system prior to the 2016 season. However, he struggled last season, finishing with a 5.11 ERA and 4.2 BB/9 in Triple-A.
While he was used primarily as a starter last season, his future might be in the bullpen. MLB.com praised his fastball-slider pairing and strong track record against lefties.
Quality lefties are always in demand, so he's at least worth a flier.
The other perk for the Reds would be opening up a spot in the rotation for one of the many young arms expected to be in the mix this spring. If Bailey is still around and earning $21 million, they'll no doubt feel compelled to plug him into one of those slots.

Los Angeles Angels Receive: LF Jacoby Ellsbury, $34 million
New York Yankees Receive: IF Nolan Fontana, LHP Conor Lillis-White
With Brett Gardner, Aaron Hicks and Aaron Judge penciled into starting jobs and Clint Frazier expected to push for playing time as well, the Yankees have already made it clear that Jacoby Ellsbury no longer has a starting spot in the outfield.
With three years and roughly $63 million left on his contract, as well as a $5 million buyout on a $21 million club option in 2021, there isn't a more obvious salary-dump candidate in MLB.
The 34-year-old is not the same impact player he was when he signed that massive seven-year, $153 million deal, but he still has some useful skills. He swiped 22 bases in 25 chances last year and posted a .348 on-base percentage while walking at a 10 percent clip and striking out just 15.4 percent of the time.
The Angels got a .253/.320/.383 line from the leadoff spot this past season, so Ellsbury would be an immediate upgrade and a potential catalyst hitting ahead of Kole Calhoun, Mike Trout and Justin Upton. The fit here all boils down to whether the Angels are willing to use Albert Pujols as the everyday first baseman, which is no guarantee.
As for the moving parts, eating half of the money still owed to Ellsbury seems like a reasonable approach by the Yankees. It would provide them more flexibility looking ahead to the 2018-19 free-agent class.
The return package, while less than inspiring, gives the Yankees someone to challenge Ronald Torreyes for the utility infield job in Nolan Fontana. They'd also receive a lefty bullpen arm in Conor Lillis-White who won't take up a spot on the 40-man roster.
Lillis-White, 25, was a 32nd-round pick in 2015 out of Canada. He pitched to a 3.90 ERA with 81 strikeouts in 67 innings between High-A and Double-A last season.

Boston Red Sox Receive: DH Shin-Soo Choo, $14 million from TEX
Texas Rangers Receive: SP Ian Kennedy
Kansas City Royals Receive: OF Rusney Castillo
Let's dive right into this one.
We'll start with Boston, who adds Shin-Soo Choo and $14 million to help offset the $62 million he's owed over the next three years while dumping Rusney Castillo.
A lot has been made about the Red Sox's need for a power bat after they slipped from ninth (208) to 27th (168) in home runs. However, they also fell from first (.348) to 11th (.329) in on-base percentage, which is an area where Choo could help. The 35-year-old has gotten on base at a .378 clip for his career, and even in a down year, he still hit .261/.357/.423 with 20 doubles and 22 home runs.
If trading for Giancarlo Stanton or signing someone like Eric Hosmer or Carlos Santana doesn't happen, Boston could do far worse addressing the DH situation.
That brings us to Texas, who saves $48 million by dumping Choo and immediately re-invests it into Ian Kennedy, who is owed $49 million over the next three years. The 32-year-old has been extremely durable, tallying at least 30 starts in each of the past eight seasons, and he's just one year removed from going 11-11 with a 3.68 ERA and 1.22 WHIP.
The Rangers have two spots to fill in the rotation behind Cole Hamels, Martin Perez and recently signed Doug Fister, and Choo is expendable with prospects Willie Calhoun and Ronald Guzman both knocking on the door.
And finally, that brings us to the Royals, who look like the perfect team to take a chance on Castillo.
The 30-year-old signed a seven-year, $72.5 million deal with the Red Sox after defecting from Cuba, but he was never able to carve out a spot at the MLB level. He was eventually removed from the 40-man roster.
However, he quietly hit .314/.350/.507 with 22 doubles, 15 home runs and 14 stolen bases in 369 plate appearances for Triple-A Pawtucket last season. His salary doesn't currently count against the luxury tax since he's off the 40-man roster; otherwise, he likely would have at least been a September call-up.
The Royals have a hole to fill in center field following the departure of Lorenzo Cain, and it appears they're headed for a major rebuild. Taking a chance on a change-of-scenery guy while also shedding Kennedy's contract looks like a win-win. 
     
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Brooks Baseball, unless otherwise noted.



It had been easy to assume Bryce Harper would be fitted for pinstripes the moment he became a free agent after 2018. Then a 6'7", 282-pound problem with that idea arose in 2017.
Unless, of course, you subscribe to what they say about problems being incognito opportunities.
The 6'7", 282-pounder is Aaron Judge, who spent 2017 turning the Yankees' right field weakness into one of Major League Baseball's biggest strengths via a 1.049 OPS and a rookie-record 52 home runs. By July, he had joined Harper as a leading All-Star vote-getter. Come November, he was the American League Rookie of the Year and MVP runner-up.
While Judge might be seen as a barrier between Harper and a lucrative job patrolling right field at Yankee Stadium, a far more intriguing picture involves an Avengers-style team-up.
Through six seasons with the Washington Nationals, Harper is the owner of a .902 OPS, 150 home runs, five All-Star nods, a Rookie of the Year and an MVP. He won his MVP in 2015 on the strength of an MLB-best 1.109 OPS and 42 homers.
And, oh yeah, he's only 25 years old now and will be just 26 when free agency beckons after 2018. Judge is also only 25 now and will be 26 next winter.
Thus, a question for the smirking, palm-rubbing schemers among us: How might these two become teammates?
First, the Yankees will need to decide they even want Harper when—this would be presumptuous if he wasn't represented by the notoriously extension-averse Scott Boras—he hits the open market. This isn't a given after Judge's emergence demoted a post-2018 pursuit of Harper from a necessity to a luxury.
But whereas that would be a deal-breaker for many other teams, the obvious difference is that the Yankees can afford luxuries.
Their Opening Day payrolls have been hovering around and above $200 million since 2005. The 2018-19 offseason is set to provide a perfect excuse to keep it up. Behold the ginormous difference between the Yankees' 2019 obligations and their payroll peak in relation to the rest of MLB:
There's a $153.9 million gap between where the Yankees will be and how high they've gone. Only the Los Angeles Dodgers ($164.3 million) and Philadelphia Phillies ($172.4 million) have that beat—and that's assuming the Dodgers will push their payroll over $270 million again, which is unlikely.
Mind you, this isn't counting the Yankees' arbitration expenses. That's projected to be $35 million in 2018. It should be even more in 2019 when Luis Severino and Greg Bird enter arbitration. Judge will get his turn in 2020.
This doesn't behoove the Yankees to avoid big expenditures in the meantime, but refraining could only help them in the Harper sweepstakes. After all, said sweepstakes is likely to push his cost beyond Giancarlo Stanton's $325 million territory and into the uncharted waters of $400 million or even $500 million.
What helps is that they're finally positioned to follow through on their long-held desire to get dodge the luxury tax. Their competitive balance payroll for 2018 is projected at $170.3 million, well south of the $197 million threshold.
It also helps that they don't have any major holes to fill. They could use a starting pitcher and another hitter. But they don't need to go after any of the big-ticket free agents (e.g. Yu Darvish, Jake Arrieta, J.D. Martinez or Eric Hosmer), and they can fill both needs by spending a few million bucks on two-way Japanese phenom Shohei Ohtani.
At least to the extent that money can be no object in this scenario, the Yankees are therefore well set up to ensure money is no object when Harper is there for the taking.
That would leave just one priority: selling him on a move to New York.
That should entail preparing an opening in right field. A full-on position switch would be a tad too far, but getting Judge experience in left field, first base and/or at DH is another one for the "Could Only Help" file.
The bigger challenge could be selling Harper on his new digs. One would think he'd be as thrilled as the next lefty-swinging slugger at the prospect of playing at Yankee Stadium. But perhaps not.
"I hit the ball to left field a lot, and Yankee Stadium is pretty big in left field," Harper said in July, according to Randy Miller of NJ Advance Media.
There are two counterpoints. Harper's amazing 2015 coincided with a spike in his pull rate, and a graph of all the non-homer fly balls and line drives he's hit overlaid onto Yankee Stadium teases quite a lot to be gained from regular shots at the park's short right field porch:

Then again, perhaps Harper's gripe won't be about Yankee Stadium. Perhaps it'll be about New York.
"Going to New York City for a couple days...I want to get out of there in about three days," he said, per Miller. "You go there for three days, it's pretty crazy and hectic and I want to go back home. I want to go back home to D.C. There's nothing like [D.C]."
For what it's worth, Harper is the last guy who would be intimidated by playing in New York.
He's been operating under intense scrutiny since he was on the cover of Sports Illustrated as a 16-year-old, yet it hasn't stopped him from becoming one of the sport's brightest stars. He's also a massive fan of Yankees legend Mickey Mantle and is an admirer of the new crop of Yankees stars.
"They've got a lot of great talent, but that's their team and Judge is doing a great job being a leader of that team," he said, per Miller. "He's paving the way for all of those guys out there."
This current crop of Yankees stars didn't need Harper to come within a win of the World Series in 2017. And that was just their opening statement. Judge, Severino, Bird, Gary Sanchez and others are just getting started. Beneath them is a cushion of prospects led by shortstop Gleyber Torres.
The Yankees won't be the only fit for Harper after 2018. The Phillies and Dodgers will have the funds he craves. The Chicago Cubs should have enough money and might be Harper's preferred destination due to his love of the city and his friendship with fellow Las Vegas native, Kris Bryant.
The idea of a Harper-Judge pairing, however, is one the Yankees should be dreaming about. When the time comes, all they'd have to do is make good on the doable task of making it happen. 
             
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Baseball Savant. Payroll and contract data courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.




The Miami Marlins have reportedly warned Giancarlo Stanton that it's in his best interest to waive his no-trade clause. 
According to the Miami Herald's Clark Spencer, "the Marlins informed Stanton in October that if he refused to waive his no-trade rights and accept a trade, he would remain a Marlin and team officials would look to trade off other top players to reduce payroll."
Stanton, 28, is scheduled to earn $25 million next season and $26 million in 2019 and 2020. He has an opt-out option after the 2020 season.
All told, Stanton has 11 years and $295 million remaining on his contract—with the final eight years functioning as options that fluctuate between $25 million and $32 million. 
Spencer added that if Stanton resists a move, the Marlins would be inclined to deal outfielders Christian Yelich and Marcell Ozuna to clear money off their balance sheet. Yelich will make $7 million next season, while Ozuna is projected to rake in $10.9 million through arbitration, per Spencer. 
On Monday, MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported Stanton submitted a list of preferred trade destinations to the Marlins, with the Los Angeles Dodgers among that select group. 
Morosi previously reported that the St. Louis Cardinals made a formal offer to the Marlins for Stanton. Terms of the proposed deal were not disclosed. 
That move came on the heels of a formal bid by the San Francisco Giants, which was first reported by The Athletic's Ken Rosenthal. 
The Boston Red Sox have also been discussed as a potential landing spot for Stanton, but their viability as a landing spot for the reigning National League MVP has waned significantly of late. 
Citing a source, NBC Sports Boston's Evan Drellich reported Tuesday the Red Sox are "an extreme long shot" to acquire Stanton. 
According to ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick, "a couple of MLB teams have gotten the sense there could be a resolution to the Giancarlo Stanton situation by the winter meetings Dec. 10" in the form of a trade or a decision from rivals to turn elsewhere. 
     
Contract information courtesy of Spotrac unless noted otherwise. 



Micah Johnson has made the rounds this offseason. 
The infielder was claimed by the Tampa Bay Rays Monday, the fourth team he's been on in the past 33 days, according to Vinnie Duber of NBC Sports. He was a member of the Atlanta Braves a little over a month ago before being claimed by the Cincinnati Reds. Four days later, the San Francisco Giants claimed him before he landed on the Rays.
Johnson has been all over the map in 2017. He was with the Los Angeles Dodgers before being traded to the Braves in Jan. 2017. 
Johnson, 26, had a cup of coffee with the Braves last season, hitting .200 with two runs in 10 at-bats and 18 games. He's appeared in 61 MLB games with the Chicago White Sox, Dodgers and Braves in the past three seasons, hitting .224 with 13 runs and four RBI.
A fractured left wrist cost him time at the beginning of last season, per Bill Chastain of MLB.com.
His time in the minor leagues has been more productive as he's hit .292 with 101 doubles, 35 triples, 30 home runs, 218 RBI and 190 stolen bases across 550 games and six seasons.
The former ninth-round pick in the 2012 draft by the White Sox offers the Rays plenty of utility should he make the team as he's capable of playing multiple positions in the infield and outfield.



Recently retired MLB outfielder Carlos Beltran will reportedly interview for the New York Yankees' managerial vacancy, according to TSN's Steve Phillips.
Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports confirmed the report. Phillips added that Beltran will become the sixth candidate to be considered for the position.
Beltran played for the Yankees from 2014 through 2016 before getting traded to the Texas Rangers and subsequently signing with the Houston Astros.
Thus far, the Yankees have interviewed bench coach Rob Thomson, Toronto Blue Jays field coordinator Eric Wedge, San Francisco Giants bench coach Hensley Meulens, ESPN analyst Aaron Boone and Los Angeles Dodgers infield coach Chris Woodward, per MLB.com's Bryan Hoch.
The Yankees parted ways with manager Joe Girardi this offseason after 10 seasons as New York fell to the Astros in seven games in the American League Championship Series.
Beltran and the Astros then won the World Series, and he went out on top by retiring as a player.
Following his retirement announcement, Beltran told ESPN's Marly Rivera he would consider interviewing for the Yankees' managerial opening if asked:
"Well, one has to consider everything. I personally think that's a great job, a position with an incredible impact—not only on players that I already had the opportunity to get to know, but to continue doing positive things. At the end of the day, yes. You have to listen, because it's not every day that there are vacancies available for managing in the major leagues. Just think of this, Joe Girardi was there for 10 years. You never know, there are opportunities that God gives us, and if I get an opportunity [to interview] I will not rule it out."
According to ESPN.com's Andrew Marchand, Yankees general manager Brian Cashman acknowledged Beltran's interest in managing and didn't rule him out as a candidate.
The 40-year-old Beltran was a nine-time All-Star as a player. With a .279 career batting average, 435 home runs and 1,587 RBI to his credit, he is a strong Hall of Fame candidate when he becomes eligible in five years.
Beltran would be one of Major League Baseball's youngest managers, but he has lots of playing experience to his credit with 20 years of major league service and seven playoff appearances.
The Yankees' next manager will be only their third since Joe Torre took the job in 1996.



In front of a Boston Red Sox team in need of an impact bat is an array of expensive stars. Giancarlo Stanton tops the charts as a trade target. Then come free agents J.D. Martinez and Eric Hosmer.
If they'd rather save some money, there's always Carlos Santana.
The idea has already crossed the Red Sox's mind. According to Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe, the club's brass met with Santana's agents at the general manager meetings earlier this month:
The Red Sox will meet with free agent Carlos Santana's agents at the GM Meetings this week.
While Mitch Moreland was a serviceable player for Boston in 2017, his free agency opened up a chance to upgrade at first base. Despite Moreland's steadiness, Red Sox first basemen ranked 28th in OPS this past season.
As the first baseman for the Cleveland Indians, Santana racked up an .818 OPS with 23 home runs. Such is life for the 31-year-old switch-hitter. He's averaged an .808 OPS and 24 homers since 2011, peaking with an .865 OPS and 34 homers as recently as 2016.
There's an obvious "Yeah, but..." at work here: These numbers are nice, but not exactly Stantonian, Martinezian or even Hosmerian.
Stanton, whose $325 million contract is too large for a Miami Marlins team that wants to cut payroll, just won the National League MVP on the strength of a 1.007 OPS and 59 homers. Martinez went yard at an even higher rate en route to a 1.066 OPS and 45 homers. Even with his relatively modest .882 OPS and 25 homers, Hosmer would have led the 2017 Red Sox in both departments.
After pacing MLB in both OPS and runs in David Ortiz's farewell season in 2016, the Red Sox fell to 22nd in OPS and 10th in runs without him in 2017. Power was their biggest bugaboo, as their bats finished dead-last in the American League with 168 home runs.
Still, the Red Sox are less a bad team in need of something drastic and more a good team in need of something smart. Their power outage didn't stop them from winning 93 games and a second straight AL East title in 2017. Plus, they already have $200 million in projected expenses for 2018. 
If the Red Sox trade for Stanton, they'll have to take on most or all of the $295 million remaining on his contract. I have Martinez and Hosmer projected to earn close to $150 million in free agency.
Santana is going to cost a fraction of these numbers. Expectations for his contract—see FanRag Sports and MLB Trade Rumors—fall in the three-year, $40 million range. That's barely an upgrade over the $31.8 million he made over his last six years with Cleveland.
It doesn't help Santana's cause that he's tied to draft-pick compensation after rejecting a $17.4 million qualifying offer from the Indians. Otherwise, his modest contract projections are reflective of how he's not a terribly exciting player. He's more "good" than "great."
What sets Santana apart, however, is just how consistently he's good.
The stat which provides the best perspective is OPS+, which adjusts a player's OPS for league and ballpark factors and puts it on a scale where 100 is average. Santana's career OPS+ is 121, and only Andrew McCutchen has more seasons of at least 500 plate appearances and an OPS+ over 120 since 2011.
Granted, the 112 OPS+ that Santana finished 2017 with is one of the exceptions. His on-base percentage held steady at .363, but he lost 43 points off his 2016 slugging percentage.
Yet, his underlying talents for drawing walks, making contact and collecting extra-base hits are going strong:
The only habit that's trending poorly is Santana's walk habit. But given that he still has a ways to go before he's descended all the way to the league average, griping about that is much ado about nothing.
Santana's power, meanwhile, is buoyed by two power-friendly habits. He keeps the ball off the ground and often uses his pull side, where power is most prevalent.
As a bonus, Santana is becoming a better player outside the batter's box. The former catcher's metrics at first base have been largely positive over the last three years. Notably, he and Moreland co-led AL first basemen with 10 defensive runs saved this season.
"He wants to keep getting better," Cleveland third base coach Mike Sarbaugh told T.J. Zuppe of The Athletic. "He'll come up and say, 'How am I doing?' When you have somebody that cares, that means a lot. He's been outstanding."

Santana's steady offensive talents and improving defense make him an outlier even among other potential free-agent bargains. Lorenzo Cain is underrated, but his game is based on athleticism that may not age well. Todd Frazier's strong track record is being undercut by a steady fade. The excellent 2017 seasons of Zack Cozart and Logan Morrison came out of nowhere.
Perhaps more to the point, Santana's profile casts him as a cheaper and better alternative to Hosmer.
Hosmer may be younger by three years, but he owns a modest 111 career OPS+ and defensive metrics that raise skepticism as to whether he deserves his four Gold Gloves. Even in living up to his upside in 2017, he still featured good-not-great patience, an undying ground-ball habit and questionable defensive range.
It's harder to make the case that Santana is a better player than Stanton and Martinez. Heck, it's impossible. They're two of the best hitters in the game.
But that doesn't mean that Santana couldn't be a better investment than either of them. It'll be a challenge for them to live up to their future earnings. He could easily be worth more than he's being paid.
That would be of use for a Red Sox team that's projected to spend over $50 million on Mookie Betts, Xander Bogaerts, Jackie Bradley Jr. and other arbitration cases just in 2018. Beyond 2018, they'll need to weigh extensions for them and the pre-arb duo of Andrew Benintendi and Rafael Devers.
So while Santana may not be the best player the Red Sox can get, he's the best signing they can make. He'd fill a need, upgrade their lineup and wouldn't crowd their payroll.
Since all this would also be true on many other teams, the Red Sox had better hurry before he's gone.
                    
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs. Contract and payroll data courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.




Shohei Ohtani is the baseball equivalent of a unicorn.
He can unleash 100 mph fastballs and filthy breaking pitches on the mound, and then he'll step into the batter's box and launch home runs.
The Japanese phenom is also still just 23 years old.
Ohtani has a chance to develop into a top-of-the-rotation starter in short order, and while his eventual offensive contributions remain a mystery, he didn't hit .326 with a .981 OPS and 30 home runs in 613 plate appearances the past two seasons by accident.
That not only makes him one of the most coveted players to ever hit the open market, but it also means he's subject to international bonus restrictions.
B/R's Jacob Shafer broke down the nuances if you're interested in that information, but suffice to say it's a unique situation that essentially boils down to all 30 teams starting on a fairly even playing field when it comes to vying for his services.
Ohtani has asked interested teams to submit written proposals on how he would fit into the organization in preparation for his likely posting this coming Friday or Saturday.
With that in mind, we've put together a slam-dunk recruiting pitch for each of the 30 MLB franchises to use in its recruitment of this potentially transcendent talent.

The Pitch: "We're a World Series contender, and you'd have the chance to hone your two-way game alongside one of the game's best pitchers and one of the game's best hitters."
     
Analysis
The Diamondbacks won 93 games last season, and aside from one notable exception—slugger J.D. Martinez, who is likely headed for greener pastures—the core of the roster will return intact.
Adding Ohtani to a starting rotation that ranked third in the majors with a 3.61 ERA and already features the likes of Zack Greinke, Robbie Ray, Taijuan Walker and Zack Godley would give them a staff that stacks up to any in baseball.
And while Ohtani wouldn't be afforded as many opportunities to showcase his offensive game, picking Paul Goldschmidt's brain would be a nice perk.
After all, it didn't take long for Goldschmidt and Martinez to strike up a strong working relationship in their short time together.

The Pitch: "We're building something special, and you're the missing piece."
     
Analysis
The Braves finished the season with B/R's No. 1-ranked farm system, and they've already had young guys like Dansby Swanson, Ozzie Albies, Sean Newcomb, Lucas Sims, Luiz Gohara and Max Fried arrive in the majors, while uber-prospect Ronald Acuna is knocking on the door.
Newcomb, Gohara and Sims are projected to join Julio Teheran and Mike Foltynewicz in the starting rotation in 2018, while the farm system features top-100 pitching prospects Kolby Allard (21), Kyle Wright (30), Mike Soroka (33), Ian Anderson (50) and Joey Wentz (94).
There's a ton of potential in that group but not a sure-fire future ace.
Ohtani would give Atlanta a frontline starter to build its rotation around, and it's not off-base to think he's the missing piece for this organization. It just might take a couple of years for it to get to the promised land.

The Pitch: "We've made the playoffs three times in the past six years without anything close to a frontline starter. Think of what we could accomplish with you anchoring the staff."
     
Analysis
Starting pitching was far from a strength for the Orioles when they reached the postseason in 2012, 2014 and 2016, as you can see:
As it stands, the 2018 staff will feature Gausman, Dylan Bundy and a whole lot of question marks.
With the front office showing no indication it's open to moving Manny Machado ahead of his final year under team control, it looks like the O's will be pushing to contend again. Adding Ohtani—along with a couple of mid-level starters—would put them right back in the mix.
And if Mark Trumbo (.289 OBP, .686 OPS) struggles like he did last season, there could be plenty of DH at-bats available as well.

The Pitch: "Remember Dice-K Mania? And that guy couldn't even hit the ball out of the infield."
     
Analysis
So far, it doesn't sound like Ohtani throws a gyroball.
But that wouldn't stop his arrival from approaching and likely surpassing the fervor that swept Boston when Daisuke Matsuzaka joined the Red Sox in 2007.
If Ohtani is looking to capitalize on marketing opportunities to offset what will be a relatively low salary, Boston would be as good a place as any to do that, with a huge market of some of the game's most ravenous fans.
He'd also be a great fit for the Red Sox on more than one level.
With Rick Porcello taking a massive step backward and David Price struggling to stay healthy, the rotation was shaky behind ace Chris Sale and left-hander Drew Pomeranz.
The team also suffered a severe power outage following the retirement of David Ortiz—dropping from ninth (208) to 27th (168) in the majors in home runs—so adding another power bat to the mix would be a welcome bonus.

The Pitch: "We'll be the best team in baseball in 2018 and the immediate future with you on board. Joe Maddon will know how to maximize your unique skill set—even in the National League."
     
Analysis
More than a few teams would have something to say about that first statement, but there's no denying the Cubs are stacked. Replacing Jake Arrieta with Ohtani means the rotation wouldn't miss a beat.
It'd also change the complexion of the offseason.
Rather than gearing up to sign someone like Alex Cobb to a five-year deal in the $75 million neighborhood, the Chicago front office could turn its full attention to the bullpen.
Re-signing closer Wade Davis would be a no-brainer, and the team could also target a couple of other high-leverage relievers to round out the pen.
Think Brandon Morrow and Mike Minor, for example.
And remember Travis Wood's playing left field in 2016?
Maddon is as creative as any manager in the game. If Ohtani prefers to debut in the pitcher-friendly NL, there's not a better place to showcase his two-way skills.

The Pitch: "Come join the game's most promising rebuild. And hey, if you can throw harder than Michael Kopech, we'll give everyone you know season tickets."
     
Analysis
What competitor doesn't respond to a good old-fashioned skills challenge?
Kopech has been clocked at 105 mph, and he regularly operates in the triple digits, so Ohtani would be the underdog. He's no stranger to 100 mph-plus fastballs himself, though.
Bigger picture, the South Side is an attractive landing spot for Ohtani if he wants to be part of building something as opposed to just latching on to a contender.
The White Sox had the No. 2 farm system in B/R's year-end rankings even after graduating Yoan Moncada to the majors. Ohtani would provide another young cornerstone piece with superstar upside.
In the short-term, he'd surely offer a welcome boost in fan interest for a team that ranked 28th in average attendance in 2017 at just 20,117.
The White Sox landed touted Cuban outfielder Luis Robert with a $26 million bonus in May, so they shouldn't be overlooked as players on the international market.

The Pitch: "You and fellow two-way phenom Hunter Greene could form a dynamic duo the likes of which the game has never seen."
     
Analysis
A 70-grade fastball and 55-grade slider on the mound and a 50-grade hit tool with 55-grade power at the plate.
No, we're not talking about Ohtani this time.
Those are the pre-draft grades MLB.com gave Hunter Greene after he starred as a pitcher and shortstop at Notre Dame High School in California and the Reds happily scooped him up with the No. 2 overall pick in the 2017 draft.
Like they do about Ohtani, most agree Greene's future is on the mound, but that didn't stop Cincinnati from trotting out Greene as a designated hitter in his pro debut.
Could the Reds ask the charismatic Greene to take on a key role in recruiting Ohtani?
It's fun to envision those two serving as co-aces while arguing about who gets to pinch hit and battling for the Silver Slugger Award.

The Pitch: "You wouldn't need to be a savior here—just another piece of the puzzle on a team with title aspirations. The cross-promotional opportunities with LeBron James would be pretty cool, too."
     
Analysis
Ohtani would be asked to step into the role of staff ace on a lot of teams.
The Indians are not one of those teams.
Two-time Cy Young Award winner Corey Kluber is the unquestioned leader of the staff, and the underrated Carlos Carrasco is a frontline starter in his own right, so Ohtani could slide into more of a low-pressure spot as the No. 3 guy on the staff—at least to start the year.
After following up an American League pennant with a 102-win season, Cleveland will return a more or less intact roster that will make it one of the favorites in 2018.
Then there's the LeBron angle.
Cleveland isn't a huge market, with a population that ranked 51st in the United States in 2016, but it's become one of the focal points of the sports world thanks to LeBron. That should afford Ohtani plenty of endorsement opportunities.

The Pitch: "Pitching in Coors Field is the ultimate challenge, and you have the stuff to conquer it. We're one elite arm away from contending for our first World Series title." 
     
Analysis
On the strength of a 12-win improvement from 2016, the Rockies posted their first winning season since 2010 and earned a spot in the NL Wild Card Game in 2017.
The biggest reason for that turnaround was a jump from 27th (4.91) to 17th (4.51) in team ERA, and there's still plenty of room for improvement.
Rookies German Marquez, Kyle Freeland and Antonio Senzatela filled significant roles, and Jon Gray is just scratching the surface as a 26-year-old with ace upside.
If Ohtani is looking for a challenge, it doesn't get much bigger than Coors Field.
Colorado has the pieces to be in the thick of things in the NL again. The addition of Ohtani might be enough for it to be considered a contender for the NL crown.

The Pitch: "Yes, we're rebuilding, but with you on board and the No. 1 pick in the 2018 draft, things will get back on track quickly. You'd be the center of it all."
     
Analysis
Admittedly, Detroit is not the most appealing destination right now.
The Tigers just began the rebuilding process, and there's still work to do to build up a farm system that checked in at No. 17 in B/R's final rankings. If Ohtani signed on, it would mean committing to what could be a lengthy process.
That process, however, could be expedited if the team trades Michael Fulmer for a substantial return and then lands the nation's top talent—University of Florida right-hander Brady Singer in some circles—with the No. 1 overall pick in June.
With Miguel Cabrera entering his age-35 season and coming off a down year (92 OPS+, 16 HR), there's a changing of the guard coming, and the organization needs a new face of the franchise.
Ohtani would be that guy as the ace of the staff, and he'd also be one Victor Martinez injury away from seeing all the DH duty he could handle.

The Pitch: "We're the defending World Series champs, and we're in a great position to repeat. With you in the mix, we'd be nothing short of a juggernaut. There's even an opening at DH after Carlos Beltran retired."
     
Analysis
There's probably not a team that's better positioned for 2018 than the Astros, who will have all their key pieces back for another year.
A full season of Justin Verlander, healthy seasons from Dallas Keuchel (23 GS) and Lance McCullers Jr. (22 GS) and more of the same from Charlie Morton and Brad Peacock would already give the Astros one of the best rotations in baseball.
Adding Ohtani to that group would make it borderline unfair.
As for the offensive side of things, the versatility of Marwin Gonzalez affords manager A.J. Hinch plenty of flexibility when it comes to filling out his lineup card. Ohtani would be another unique weapon.
Fear of stretching him too thin would keep Houston from using him as a full-time DH between starts, but it shouldn't be out of the question for Ohtani to absorb half of the 509 plate appearances that went to Beltran.
If winning now and making the most of his two-way talents are top priorities for Ohtani, the Astros have to be considered a strong contender.

The Pitch: "Umm...ever had Kansas City-style barbecue? It's really good."
     
Analysis
It's not a great time for the Royals to be wooing someone.
The potential departures of Eric Hosmer, Lorenzo Cain and Mike Moustakas mean the franchise is headed for an unavoidable rebuild, and with the game's second-worst farm system, it's going to be a lengthy process.
The barbecue thing was a joke, but only to a point.
K.C.'s best pitch might be the city itself and a fanbase that ranked second in viewership, according to Forbes, even in a season in which the team posted a losing record.

The Pitch: "You have your sights set on being the best player in the world, so why not share a locker room with the guy you'll be chasing for that title?"
     
Analysis
Ohtani has lofty ambitions for his professional career, and it starts with his move stateside.
"That's the path you have to walk in the process of becoming the best player in the world. That's the ultimate goal for a baseball player, so I would definitely like to experience that," he said Nov. 11, per Jason Coskrey of the Japan Times.
If Ohtani is to become the best player in the game, he'll first have to unseat Angels superstar Mike Trout, who is widely regarded as the most talented player on the planet.
What better way to gauge how he stacks up than to play alongside Trout in Anaheim?
Ohtani may see the opportunity to share a dugout with another generational talent as too good to pass up.
As for the Angels, after winning 80 games last season, they could be fringe contenders with slightly improved health from their in-house pitchers. Adding Ohtani to the mix would make them a postseason threat.

The Pitch: "We were one win away from a World Series title, we have a stacked roster and you would get to pick the brain of the best pitcher in baseball. What more could you ask for?"
     
Analysis
No one has been more active on the international market in recent years than the Dodgers, and that includes the eight-year, $25 million deal Kenta Maeda signed prior to the 2016 season.
Maeda, 29, spent eight seasons with the Hiroshima Carp before he joined Los Angeles. He's one of the few active pitchers who has successfully made the leap from the Japanese League, and he'd be an invaluable sounding board for Ohtani while he goes through that same process.
And as for Ohtani's wanting to be the best player in the world, what better resource to help further hone his craft than Clayton Kershaw?
On the team level, the Dodgers already have everything they need to be World Series contenders again in 2018.
Ohtani would make them the odds-on favorites to hoist the trophy, and while he wouldn't have a prime opportunity to showcase his offensive game, the comfort of playing with a countryman and opportunity to serve as the No. 2 behind Kershaw would be intriguing.

The Pitch: "Trading Giancarlo Stanton might seem like a drastic step, but this organization has a long-term plan that's going to finally take us from afterthought to perennial contender. You'd be a huge part of that plan."
     
Analysis
The Marlins haven't had a winning season since 2009, and the only two times the franchise reached the playoffs, it won the World Series and then set to work dismantling a roster it couldn't afford.
Say what you will about the new ownership group's plans to trim the payroll to $90 million—starting with working to move Stanton—but this organization needed a change in philosophy and got it.
Aggressively going in a new direction and selling Ohtani on the idea of being the centerpiece of that vision is its best chance to convince him Miami is the place to be.
One other chip in the Marlins' favor is the presence of Japanese-born reliever Junichi Tazawa, who is represented by the same agent—Nez Balelo of CAA Sports—Ohtani hired earlier this month.

The Pitch: "It's time to make the leap from rebuilding to contender, and you're just the guy to get us over the hump. Don't think we're asking you to do it alone, though. We've got money to spend and our sights set on a busy offseason."
     
Analysis
The Brewers surprised more than a few people by winning 86 games and finishing second in the NL Central in 2017, arriving on the scene as a wild-card contender earlier than expected.
That despite a payroll that ranked dead last in the majors at $83.5 million.
Adam McCalvy and Mark Feinsand of MLB.com reported Nov. 13 that general manager David Stearns said he's "cast a wide net" in his search for roster upgrades and that starting pitching is the team's top priority.
MLB Trade Rumors went so far as to predict Milwaukee to be the unexpected landing spot for free agent Jake Arrieta.
Could a run at Yu Darvish with an eye on using him to help recruit Ohtani be in the cards?
There are plenty of teams that could view Ohtani as the missing piece to make a jump from pretender to contender, but the Brewers have one of the best claims.
Chase Anderson, Zach Davies and Jimmy Nelson—once he returns from shoulder surgery—would look awfully good as the 3-4-5 guys in the starting rotation as opposed to being asked to lead the staff.

The Pitch: "We followed a 103-loss season with a trip to the AL Wild Card Game, and we're just getting started."
    
Analysis
It's been a roller-coaster last few years for the Twins.
After a 92-loss season in 2014, they surprised with a winning record in 2015. One step forward was followed by more than a few steps back, though, as a 103-loss season in 2016 earned them the first pick in the draft in June. They then finished 85-77 in 2017 and grabbed the second AL wild card.
This time around, their rise to contention appears to be a bit more sustainable.
The offense finished seventh in the majors in runs scored (815) and will return all its key pieces, while the starting rotation welcomed a potential ace to the mix in Jose Berrios, who had a breakout season.
With top prospects Stephen Gonsalves and Fernando Romero expected to arrive in short order, the future looks bright on the pitching side of things. Ohtani would take that to another level.
Minnesota is also one of three teams that can offer a bonus north of $3 million, and while money is not expected to be the driving factor in negotiations, it won't hurt the Twins' chances.

The Pitch: "Terrific starting pitching is what led us to the World Series in 2015, and it's how we plan on getting back there in 2018—starting by adding you to the staff."
     
Analysis
The Mets ranked fourth in the majors with a 3.44 starters' ERA during the 2015 season, when the three-headed monster of Jacob deGrom (14-8, 2.54 ERA), Matt Harvey (13-8, 2.71 ERA) and then-rookie Noah Syndergaard (9-7, 3.24 ERA) paved the way to the NL pennant.
That figure climbed to 3.61 (third) in 2016, and the team was ousted in the NL Wild Card Game. It spiked to an unsightly 5.14 (27th) in 2017.
Injuries played a major role, as deGrom was the only pitcher on the staff to reach 120 innings. If New York hopes to rebound, it's going to need to get back to using pitching as the driving force.
The Mets should hold plenty of intrigue for Ohtani in part because of the endorsement opportunities that come with playing in the sport's largest market. They might play second fiddle to the Yankees, but that wouldn't hurt Ohtani's marketability, and he could give Aaron Judge a run for his money as the face of baseball in New York.
Again, if Ohtani prefers to start his career in the more pitcher-friendly NL, the Mets are an attractive landing spot.

The Pitch: "We have a storied history. We have a young core ready to contend for the next decade. We have a familiar face in Masahiro Tanaka signed on for the next three years. We have the market to help you earn back all the money you left on the table. What are you waiting for?"
     
Analysis
The Yankees are the favorites to sign Ohtani for a reason.
They arrived as title contenders ahead of schedule in what was expected to be a "retooling" season. They've been working hard to avoid any payroll clutter with an eye on adding at least one superstar on the 2018-19 free-agent market, and it's reasonable to think the best is yet to come from their core.
Slotting Ohtani alongside Tanaka and Luis Severino would give the team three frontline starters, and there's enough pitching talent in the pipeline to think they could have one of the best staffs in the league within the next few seasons.
Playing in the New York market would be like nothing Ohtani has done before. Tanaka, however, has been through everything he'll have to face, from the transition to pitching under the bright lights of October. What better person to have by his side for at least the next three seasons?
The market has swallowed up its fair share of athletes, but it also presents opportunities like nowhere else in the world.
It has to be considered the Yankees' race to lose at this point.

The Pitch: "Yankee Stadium was 'The House That Ruth Built,' and we often hear you compared to Babe Ruth. Just think, our new stadium—once we finally get it—could be The House That Ohtani Built."
     
Analysis
Might as well play off all that Babe Ruth talk, right?
The A's might be a small-market team, but that hasn't stopped them from wading around in the high-end international free-agent pool in the past.
That most notably includes signing Yoenis Cespedes to a four-year, $36 million deal back when Cuban defectors were still a far bigger question mark. They also landed touted prospect Lazaro Armenteros with a $3 million bonus in 2016.
Executive vice president of baseball operations Billy Beane finally uttered the word "rebuild" this summer, before he traded ace Sonny Gray to the Yankees amid a handful of other moves.
Oakland is going to be a young team, and the next few years are going to be lean ones, but with B/R's No. 8 farm system already in place, it won't take as long as some might think for this team to return to relevance.
Ohtani would be the unquestioned face of the franchise and have a chance to carve out a legacy with a team in transition.

The Pitch: "We have so much money we don't know what to do with it. Honestly, if we could give you $200 million right now, we would. Instead, we'll use that money to go all-in on Bryce Harper or Manny Machado next winter."
     
Analysis
The Phillies have just one guaranteed salary—the $3.4 million owed to Odubel Herrera—on the books for the 2018 season and another $19.2 million in projected arbitration salaries, per MLB Trade Rumors.
For a franchise that boasted a payroll of $183.5 million as recently as 2014, there's an awful lot of money to spend.
Selling Ohtani on the idea that he's the first in what will be a series of splashy free-agent signings is the best pitch the team has to offer after a disappointing 96-loss season that amounted to a spinning of the tires on the road back to contention.
There are some solid core pieces already in place, like right-hander Aaron Nola and slugger Rhys Hoskins, and there are plenty more on the way from a farm system that includes top-100 prospects Mickey Moniak (28), Sixto Sanchez (46), Scott Kingery (49), J.P. Crawford (53), Jorge Alfaro (61) and Adam Haseley (87).
That mix of payroll flexibility and youth gives Philadelphia a ton of upside, albeit with a healthy dose of uncertainty.

The Pitch: "If you're looking for a splashy landing spot, look elsewhere. If you're looking to make the most out of your incredible raw talent, no one is better equipped to help you than Ray Searage."
     
Analysis
Ray Searage became the Pirates pitching coach in 2010.
During his time with the team, he's helped resurrect more than a few careers.
Joel Hanrahan, James McDonald, Kevin Correia, Jason Grilli, A.J. Burnett, Francisco Liriano, Mark Melancon, Edinson Volquez, Vance Worley, J.A. Happ, Joe Blanton, Neftali Feliz, Juan Nicasio and Ivan Nova all thrived under his tutelage after previously struggling.
Just think of what he could do given the opportunity to work with Ohtani.
If Ohtani does have his sights set on being the best player in the game, the chance to work with the man many consider the best pitching coach in the game is the Pirates' best sales pitch.

The Pitch: "What pitcher doesn't want to play half his games at Petco Park?"
     
Analysis
The media circus that comes with being such a hyped international prospect puts an incredible amount of pressure on a player.
Daisuke Matsuzaka won 15 games as a rookie with the Red Sox, but he also pitched to a 4.40 ERA and 1.32 WHIP in what was widely considered to be a disappointing debut, at least relative to expectations.
With that in mind, Ohtani might prefer to begin his MLB career in a pitcher's park that would give him the best chance to experience success.
Petco Park doesn't have the same sprawling dimensions as it did before the fences were moved in following the 2012 season, but it remains a pitcher's paradise.
According to ESPN's park factors, it ranked 29th in both runs and home runs in 2017.

The Pitch: "We're definitely maybe going to get Giancarlo Stanton."
     
Analysis
The Giants are in a tough spot.
They're fresh off a disastrous 98-loss season, they're up against the luxury tax threshold, and they're working with a thin farm system that one AL scout described as in the bottom five, according to Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com.
At this point, they're in danger of becoming the 2013 Phillies: a team just a few years removed from a World Series title but trapped under bad contracts and facing a daunting uphill battle once it finally commits to an overdue rebuild.
That being said, the front office has given no indication it plans on rebuilding just yet, and San Francisco has already submitted an offer to Miami for Stanton, according to Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic.
AT&T Park is beautiful and still one of the best pitcher's parks in the game. The long-term outlook might not be great for the Giants, but another run at contention in 2018 is not out of the question.
Would that be enough on which to sell Ohtani?
If not, maybe they can sell him on how fun it would be to have daily home run derbies with Madison Bumgarner.

The Pitch: "Kazuhiro Sasaki, Ichiro Suzuki, Kenji Johjima, Hisashi Iwakuma—these are guys you grew up watching and they all enjoyed MLB success right here in Seattle."
     
Analysis
The Mariners could pitch the fact that Seattle is closer to home than any other MLB city. A plane trip to Sapporo, Japan, where Ohtani played for the Nippon Ham Fighters, takes about 15 hours.
They could also talk up a talented roster and a team that's been on the fringe of contention the past several seasons and might be one frontline arm away from making serious noise.
They could commit to making every effort to sign in free agency Yu Darvish, a player with whom Ohtani has developed a friendship as his offseason workout partner.
They'll almost certainly pitch all of those things and more when it comes time to make their case.
The pipeline from Japan to Seattle, however, might be their best argument.
No one has experienced more success making the jump from Japan than Ichiro, and there could be a certain comfort level that would come with following in his footsteps.

The Pitch: "There's not a better baseball city than St. Louis, and there's not a better catcher to handle your transition than Yadier Molina. Also, we're definitely maybe getting Giancarlo Stanton."
     
Analysis
It seems every year there's one media outlet or another that names St. Louis the best baseball city.
That's certainly up for debate, but there's no arguing with the second-highest home attendance (42,567 per game) in the game. And there's no denying the city is flooded with diehard Cardinals fans.
That's a good place for St. Louis to start in its pitch to Ohtani.
Talking up the organization's ability to develop in-house talent and selling Ohtani on the opportunity to work with Molina would also be significant chips in its favor.
And then, of course, there's that potential Stanton blockbuster for which everyone is waiting.
Per Jon Morosi of MLB Network, the Cardinals joined the Giants over the weekend in submitting an offer for the Marlins slugger. If he's willing to waive his no-trade clause to come to the Midwest, there's no question they have the pieces to swing a deal.
It's going to be a busy offseason in St. Louis.

The Pitch: "We're already grooming one two-way player in Brendan McKay, and we're more than willing to give you the same opportunity."
     
Analysis
The Rays drafted Brendan McKay with the No. 4 pick in June after he won the Golden Spikes Award during his junior season at Louisville.
Some scouts preferred him as a polished left-handed pitcher who went 11-3 with a 2.56 ERA and 146 strikeouts in 109 innings on the mound. Others liked him as a sweet-swinging first baseman who hit .341/.457/.659 with 18 home runs and 57 RBI.
Tampa Bay liked his upside, and he made 21 starts at first base, 15 at DH and six on the mound in his first pro campaign.
Plenty of teams can say they're willing to give Ohtani an opportunity to be a two-way player. Not many can point to an in-house example to prove that willingness.
And with incumbent DH Corey Dickerson projected for a $6.4 million salary—fifth-highest on the team—the front office might actively be searching for a cheaper source of power.

The Pitch: "We have a hitter-friendly park, but that didn't stop Yu Darvish from enjoying plenty of success on the mound. It's the best of both worlds for someone with your talents."
     
Analysis
The Rangers won negotiating rights with Yu Darvish thanks to a $51.7 million posting fee prior to the 2012 season.
While they won't be able to outbid everyone else this time around, they do have $3.5 million in remaining bonus pool money. That's more than any other team, with the Yankees ($3.3 million) and Twins ($3.2 million) the only others with more than $3 million.
Convincing Ohtani to come to a hitter-friendly environment like Globe Life Park won't be easy, but they can use Darvish as a relatable success story.
In his four-plus seasons with the team, Darvish went 31-19 with a 3.60 ERA and 509 strikeouts in 417.2 innings at home.
The team also has an opening at DH, assuming Joey Gallo takes over as the everyday first baseman in place of the departed Mike Napoli.

The Pitch: "There's an inevitable culture shock that comes with making such a huge transition, but moving to the most diverse city in the world should help with that."
     
Analysis
BBC Radio (h/t Metro) named Toronto the most diverse city in the world, and even if it's not No. 1 on your list, it certainly belongs in the conversation.
And with only one baseball team in Canada, essentially the entire country makes up the Blue Jays fanbase, so it's no surprise they ranked fourth in average attendance (39,554) last season.
New York might be a melting pot, but if Ohtani wants as smooth a transition as possible off the field, Toronto deserves a closer look.
He'd also get to play alongside one of the game's rising stars and a dynamic personality in Marcus Stroman.
The Blue Jays appear to be headed for a transitional period of sorts with Josh Donaldson headed for free agency after 2018 and fellow sluggers Edwin Encarnacion and Jose Bautista already gone.
Ohtani would be the cornerstone of the team's future.

The Pitch: "It's a make-or-break season for us. You'd have a chance to be part of one of the best starting rotations in baseball history, and you'd be playing for a team that's hell-bent on winning the World Series in 2018."
     
Analysis
Plenty of teams are well-positioned for success in 2018.
No team, however, is more desperate for a title than the Nationals, whose Bryce Harper, Daniel Murphy and Gio Gonzalez are set to reach free agency next offseason.
Slotting Ohtani alongside three-time Cy Young Award winner Max Scherzer and fellow ace Stephen Strasburg would be terrifying for the rest of the NL.
The storyline of Harper's free agency and the team's need to win now might even help deflect some of the pressure and attention from Ohtani in his rookie season.
And yes, Scherzer and Strasburg are great players, but Harper is the most marketable guy on the team. That's a title that would likely go to Ohtani if Harper leaves.
     
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.



Multiple teams pursuing a potential trade for Miami Marlins slugger Giancarlo Stanton reportedly believe he prefers to play for the Los Angeles Dodgers.
Jon Morosi of MLB Network reported the news Monday, noting those teams think the "Dodgers are his first choice, and that he will be reluctant to approve other destinations until there is clarity with LA."
Stanton has a full no-trade clause on his contract and can approve or reject any possible move, suggesting the Dodgers are in an ideal position should they want to give up the pieces to land the 2017 National League MVP.
The reported desire to play in Los Angeles follows a report from Chad Jennings of the Boston Herald citing a source who said Stanton will not accept a trade to the St. Louis Cardinals or Boston Red Sox.
Stanton is apparently interested in Los Angeles, and Mark Feinsand of MLB.com reported on Nov. 14 the team is "indeed in the mix," but that doesn't mean the reigning National League champions will necessarily be willing to trade the young pieces a rebuilding Marlins franchise will likely ask for in a trade.
That is especially the case considering Buster Olney of ESPN reported, "Some rival execs view the Marlins' prospect asking price for Giancarlo Stanton as shockingly high and somewhat out of touch with reality and not discounted nearly enough given the whopping $295 million he's owed (with the forthcoming out clause after the 2020 season)."
The financial aspect plays a role beyond the salary a trading team would take on after Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald reported in October the Marlins' new ownership is attempting to cut payroll from last year's $115 million to approximately $90 million for 2018.
There are a number of considerations with such a high-profile trade possibility, but Stanton is one of the best players in all of baseball and drilled 59 home runs to go with 132 RBI and a slash line of .281/.376/.631 in 2017.
Adding someone like that to a Dodgers team coming off five straight National League West titles and a World Series appearance would likely only help them to continue their dominance in the seasons to come.



The Houston Astros received more than just World Series rings for their October effort. 
According to a Monday story from TMZ Sports, Major League Baseball announced the $438,901.57 bonus checks Houston players received for their playoff games were the highest in league history. The 2014 San Francisco Giants held the previous record with players receiving $392,000 bonus checks.
TMZ explained the bonus checks come from gate receipts at playoff games, so the further a team advances the higher the total amount of money is at the end of the postseason.
The Astros weren't the only team to rake in the dough for their postseason performance.
TMZ noted the Los Angeles Dodgers each made $259,722.14 despite losing the World Series, while players for the New York Yankees ($138,000), Chicago Cubs ($133,000), Arizona Diamondbacks ($40,000), Boston Red Sox ($36,000), Cleveland Indians ($36,000), Washington Nationals ($36,000), Colorado Rockies ($18,000) and Minnesota Twins ($18,000) were also rewarded.
The Astros and Dodgers certainly worked for their money considering their seven-game showdown was one of the most memorable World Series in baseball history featuring two extra-inning contests, drastic momentum swings and the most combined home runs in Fall Classic history.
Houston won the franchise's first World Series and figures to be a serious contender for more trophies—and the bonus checks that come with them—in the coming years with a young core anchored around American League MVP Jose Altuve, Carlos Correa and Fall Classic MVP George Springer.



Nearly four weeks have passed since the Houston Astros beat the Los Angeles Dodgers in the World Series. While many Astros fans are still basking in the glow of the franchise's first title, many MLB followers are focusing on the marquee names that could switch teams this offseason.
Of course, no trade candidate could shake the MLB landscape like reigning National League Most Valuable Player Giancarlo Stanton. Beyond Stanton, a number of other stars are sure to move and shake up the playoff races in 2018.
Below are the most recent updates on four players who have been the subject of trade rumors.
      
Red Sox Lukewarm on Trade for Giancarlo Stanton

Stanton can opt out of his contract after the 2020 season. Were he to do so, he'd wipe $233 million in future financial commitments off his team's payroll. The fact he's owed $77 million over the next three years will still limit the number of teams who could realistically acquire the 28-year-old slugger.
The Boston Red Sox would presumably be among the teams in the hunt for Stanton, but the Boston Globe's Nick Cafardo spoke to a source from the Marlins who said the Red Sox are "tepid" about the prospect of making a trade.
Cafardo added the Marlins' front office isn't enamored with Boston's minor league system, either. Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter ranked the Red Sox at No. 23 at the end of the regular season.
The Red Sox could have a bit of an edge against other teams, though, since they'd likely be willing to take on more of Stanton's contract than other suitors. If the Marlins are dead set on trading Stanton, then they'd almost certainly accept a slightly lesser return than they had initially hoped if it meant shedding most of his contract.
       
Jason Kipnis Among Trade Options at Second Base

Jason Kipnis has been a vital member of the Cleveland Indians' offense since joining the team full time in 2012, but the time may have come for the Indians to move on from the two-time All-Star second baseman.
The New York Post's Mike Puma reported Jason Kipnis is one of the veteran middle infielders available on the trade market, along with Dee Gordon and Ian Kinsler.
For one, Kipnis is due to make $28 million over the next two seasons, and the Indians would need to pay a $2.5 million buyout in 2020 if they didn't want to pick up his $16.5 million club option. Trading Kipnis would give Cleveland much-needed salary relief as it looks to re-sign Carlos Santana this offseason and potentially Andrew Miller and Cody Allen a year from now.
Jose Ramirez's improvement in 2017 also made Kipnis less of a necessity on the Indians roster. Ramirez can be the team's everyday second baseman. He'd be Kipnis' defensive equal while offering more offensively.
Keeping Kipnis and playing him either at second base or the outfield wouldn't be disastrous for the Indians, but he may be more valuable to the team as a trade asset than a regular contributor in 2018.
       
Minnesota Twins Looking to Upgrade Starting Rotation

According to FanGraphs, Minnesota Twins starting pitchers ranked 23rd in collective FIP (4.85) last season. Jose Berrios bounced back in 2017, but Minnesota doesn't have much depth in the rotation beyond the 23-year-old right-hander.
With that in mind, this report from the Pioneer Press' Mike Berardino comes as little surprise:
#mntwins have talked with #Pirates about RHP Gerrit Cole and #Rays about RHP Jake Odorizzi. Both come with 2 years of control and shouldn't break the bank via arbitration process. 2018 projections are $7.5M and $6.5M, respectively.
Acquiring Gerrit Cole would likely go over well in the Twin Cities. The Pittsburgh Pirates starter went 12-12 last season with a 4.26 ERA and a 4.08 FIP. Two seasons ago, Cole was an All-Star and finished fourth in the National League Cy Young voting.
Jake Odorizzi, on the other hand, might be a slightly tougher sell. Not only is he a year older than Cole, Odorizzi's FIP has climbed from a career-best 3.61 in 2015 to 4.31 and 5.43 over the last two years.
According to FanGraphs, his 3.83 walks per nine innings were also fifth-highest among pitchers who logged at least 140 innings in 2017.
Cole has had a similar level of regression over the same amount of time, but he offers a higher ceiling to the Twins, who should aim higher than adding another No. 4 or 5 starter.
The Twins shouldn't part with a top prospect such as Royce Lewis or Nick Gordon in pursuit of Cole. At the same time, it will be interesting to see if Minnesota is willing to go all in at some point in the next two years.
Both the Indians and Kansas City Royals surrendered promising players in pursuit of a World Series. Cleveland was a game away from winning a title in 2016, and Kansas City reached back-to-back World Series in 2014 and 2015, winning two seasons ago.
Especially with the state of their rotation, the time will likely come for Thad Levine to make a major move that signals the franchise's intent to contend.
        
Stats are courtesy of Baseball Reference unless otherwise noted.



Even though it was the most homer-happy season in Major League Baseball history, 2017 somehow missed out on a truly historic pair of slugging teammates.
A trade that would unite Giancarlo Stanton and Cody Bellinger on the Los Angeles Dodgers could fix that right up.
To be clear, no such trade is imminent. Andy McCullough of the Los Angeles Times reported on November 15 that there was "little momentum" in talks between the Dodgers and Miami Marlins. With reports from Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic and Jon Morosi of MLB Network, respectively, that the San Francisco Giants and St. Louis Cardinals have made offers for the 28-year-old right fielder, that puts the Dodgers outside the center of the Stanton sweepstakes.
Still, never say never.
Fresh off a heartbreaking World Series defeat in which their offense couldn't hang with that of the Houston Astros, the Dodgers aren't without incentive to go all-out for Stanton. With deep pockets and a deep farm system, they also have the means to take on the $295 million remaining on his contract and/or to satisfy Miami's desire for real prospects.
Perhaps most important of all, Stanton himself may view a trade to the Dodgers as an ideal excuse to waive his no-trade clause.
"Some friends of Stanton believe if he could have his choice to play for any franchise, it would be the Los Angeles Dodgers," wrote ESPN.com's Buster Olney. "He attended Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, California, about 15 miles from Dodger Stadium."
It's not a question of whether the Dodgers can trade for Stanton. They absolutely can. They just need to decide they want to. If they do, then BAM. He'll be in Dodger blue in no time.
The biggest potential benefit for them would be the end of an ongoing World Series quest that's thus far been a close-but-no-cigar affair. A definite benefit for both the Dodgers and the dinger-loving public, meanwhile, would be Stanton and Bellinger forming a home run duo for the books.

Stanton owns 267 career home runs and is fresh off earning the National League MVP on the strength of 59 homers. Despite not debuting in the majors until April 25, Bellinger claimed the NL Rookie of the Year by clubbing an NL-rookie-record 39 homers.
It's safe to assume there's more where this came from. And not just because modern baseballs allegedly contain more juice than a fleet of Tropicana delivery trucks.
Stanton is a 6'6", 245-pound behemoth whose raw power is probably best measured in megatons. But since Statcast is the best we have for now, here are some tidbits: He leads everyone in batted balls of at least 110 mph and home runs of at least 450 feet since 2015.
What changed in 2017 was the efficiency with which Stanton applied his huge pop. Alterations to his stance made him better able to stay with pitches. That helped cut his strikeout rate to a career-low 23.6 percent. With more balls in play came even more balls over the fence.
At 6'4", 210 pounds, Bellinger is a big drink of water with impressive raw power in his own right. But the 21-year-old's power output is less about efficiency and more about volume. 
Stanton is so strong that he doesn't need to get under the ball to drive it to the cheap seats—to wit, quite a few of his homers are line drives with legs. Bellinger, on the other hand, spent 2017 establishing himself as one of MLB's top fly-ball specialists, thereby giving himself abundant opportunities to clear the fence.
True, one of these slugging methods was more fruitful than the other in 2017. But the gap looks less extreme when the focus is shifted to the rate (homers per plate appearance) at which Stanton and Bellinger went:
Of course, the best possible home run duo would be Stanton and J.D. Martinez, according to this table. The next-best would be either Stanton and Joey Gallo or Stanton and Aaron Judge.
But don't count on those coming true.
Whoever takes on Stanton and his massive contract won't be able to afford to sign Martinez—who'll likely cost around $150 million—as a free agent. While Gallo's Texas Rangers and Judge's New York Yankees are interesting fits for Stanton, both clubs should have their resources trained on arms rather than bats.
Thus, Stanton-Bellinger is probably the best slugging partnership that the current MLB landscape is capable of producing. And lest anyone have doubts, they could be more than good enough to take their place among the most lethal home run duos ever.
Put their 2017 home run outputs together, and you get 98 total homers. That's within earshot of 100 combined home runs, which only five duos have ever achieved:
Do Bellinger the courtesy of stretching his 132-game performance over 162 games, and his output rises from 39 to 48 and pushes his and Stanton's combined total to 107 home runs. Not quite a record, but in record-challenging territory.
At worst, Stanton and Bellinger would each have a shot at topping 40 homers year after year. While duos of 40-homer sluggers aren't unheard of, it's rare for teammates to do it more than once. There have been only six instances of that, with the most recent being Manny Ramirez and David Ortiz in 2004 and 2005.
For now, this all constitutes a textbook example of the phrase "strictly hypothetical." Standing in the way of the idea and the reality are the Dodgers shaking off their apparent disinterest and trading for Stanton, as well as a litany of factors (injuries especially) that could slow his and Bellinger's home run outputs.
But until the Hot Stove season finally heats up, there's not much to do besides dream. We might as well dream of something worth dreaming about.
           
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Baseball Savant. Contract data courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.




With Thanksgiving behind us and the MLB winter meetings set to kick off Dec. 10, the offseason hot stove is stuck somewhere between tepid and ice cold.
To put it another way: Since Justin Upton signed a five-year, $106 million extension with the Los Angeles Angels on Nov. 2, the biggest transactions have been the Oakland A's trading Ryon Healy to the Seattle Mariners and the Texas Rangers signing Doug Fister, per Evan Drelich of NBC Sports Boston.
So...yeah.
Eventually, of course, the top free agents will come off the board and we'll learn the fate of the winter's major trade targets.
In the meantime, let's mine the rumor mill for some choice nuggets and put them through B/R's one-to-five B.S. meter, with one being a near-lock and five being utter B.S.
We'll begin with rumblings concerning the biggest fish (pun intended) on the trading block.
          
A Shot of Giancarlo Stanton With a Dee Gordon Chaser by the Bay?   
The Rumor: The San Francisco Giants might acquire Giancarlo Stanton and Dee Gordon from the Miami Marlins.
The Source: It's widely known the Giants are pursuing Stanton and are the "favorites" to land the Marlins masher, per MLB.com's Mark Feinsand. According to Craig Misch of Sirius XM, the Giants and Marlins have exchanged names in their negotiations.
As for San Francisco's package, Misch names two prospects, pitcher Tyler Beede and power-hitting outfielder/first baseman Chris Shaw, as well as MLB second baseman Joe Panik. On the Miami side, he mentions second baseman Dee Gordon along with Stanton.
Analysis: On the surface, this makes sense. The Marlins' new ownership group, led by Derek Jeter, is looking to shed salary. Getting rid of the more than $280 million (barring a post-2020 opt-out) remaining on Stanton's contract fits the bill as does offloading the minimum $37.9 million owed to Gordon through 2020.

Beede and Shaw are the No. 2 and No. 3 prospects in the Giants' system, per MLB.com, while Panik is a 2015 All-Star and 2016 Gold Glove winner entering his first year of arbitration eligibility.
It's possible the Marlins could extract a richer haul from another suitor, but that's a decent return, considering the Giants are willing to take on "a lot" of Stanton's contract, per Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe.
That brings us to Gordon. The 29-year-old speedster hit .308 and stole 60 bases in 2017 and would plug the hole left by Panik's departure. 
Couple his salary with Stanton's, however, and Giants would vault over the luxury tax threshold, as McCovey Chronicles' Grant Brisbee noted. And that's before they fill other holes in the bullpen and at third base.
Despite his payroll-crippling salary, Stanton makes a lot of sense for a San Francisco squad that lost 98 games and finished dead last in home runs and OPS, yet has indicated a rebuild isn't in the offing. 
Adding Gordon's dollars (not to mention his PED baggage) tips the scales toward implausible.
B.S. Meter: Three
      
Shohei Ohtani Getting Fitted for Pinstripes?
The Rumor: The New York Yankees are the front-runners to land Japanese star Shohei Ohtani.
The Source: George A. King III of the New York Post summed up the speculative consensus when he noted "the Yankees are the favorite" to sign the soon-to-be-posted two-way stud.
Analysis: Ohtani's agent, Nez Balelo, asked for a litany of written explanations from all clubs interested in his 23-year-old client's services, as first reported by the Associated Press (h/t the Boston Herald).
Per the report:
"Balelo's memo asks for a team to evaluate Ohtani's talent as a pitcher and as a hitter; to explain its player development, medical training and player performance philosophies and facilities; to describe its minor league and spring training facilities; to detail resources for Ohtani's cultural assimilation into the team's city; to demonstrate a vision for how Ohtani could integrate into the team's organization; and to tell Ohtani why the team is a desirable place to play."

Notably, the memo asked teams not to discuss money. Ohtani can sign only for the league minimum, plus a $20 million posting fee, since he's entering MLB prior to his 25th birthday.
The Yanks aren't the only club that ticks off the non-monetary boxes on Ohtani's checklist.
The Los Angeles Dodgers can make a compelling case as another big-market team with a high profile and a talented roster. The Seattle Mariners have a track record with Japanese players and are planning to make a hard push, according to general manager Jerry Dipoto.
"We're not going to leave a stone unturned in the efforts to do it again if the opportunity arises," Dipoto said on a podcast with Seattle broadcaster Aaron Goldsmith, per Greg Johns of MLB.com. "We'll be responsible in how we do it, but we understand this is a one-time buying opportunity and you have to be prepared."
That said, the Yankees are the best fit. No franchise boasts a richer history. Heck, Ohtani has been called the Japanese Babe Ruth, as Bleacher Report's Scott Miller outlined in March. 
Ohtani isn't coming to the states for dollars. He's coming for eyeballs and a chance to win. The burgeoning Big Apple Yankees—who got within a win of the World Series in 2017—offer both.
The Mariners are an interesting dark horse but bet on Ohtani landing in the Bronx.
B.S. Meter: One
               
Yu Darvish to the Twinkies?
The Rumor: The Minnesota Twins are serious players for free-agent ace Yu Darvish.
The Source: There are an array of second- and third-tier arms on the market, but Minnesota could aim high and go after Darvish, who figures to command a nine-figure deal.
That's according to general manager Thad Levine, who called Darvish "a priority for us," per Jim Duquette of MLB Network Radio.
Analysis: The Twins were one of the coolest surprises of 2017 as they rebounded from a 103-loss campaign to claim the American League's second wild card.
Now, they're hoping to build on that success and shore up their most glaring weakness—the starting rotation.

The Twins have $70.4 million committed for next season, per Spotrac, plus another $15.8 million in projected arbitration salaries, per MLB Trade Rumors. They spent $135.7 million in 2017, which means they've got dough to allocate.
Still, it would take a huge chunk of their available resources to ink Darvish. That leaves precious little for the Twins to plug other holes, including in the bullpen.
Minnesota could surprise, but Darvish or any other top-shelf free agent coming to Target Field feels far-fetched.
B.S. Meter: Four
              
Pads in on Eric Hosmer?
The Rumor: The San Diego Padres could make a play for free-agent first baseman Eric Hosmer. 
The Source: Both Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic and Dennis Lin of the San Diego Union-Tribune have noted the Friars' possible interest in Hosmer.
Analysis: The Padres are squarely in the midst of a rebuild and more than a season away from contention.
That said, Hosmer is 28 years old and could have several productive years ahead of him after posting career highs in batting average (.318), hits (192) and OPS (.882) in 2017 with the Kansas City Royals.

Hosmer is represented by superagent Scott Boras and is likely to command a $100 million-plus pact. That's a lot of coin for a club whose contention window has yet to crack open.
The lefty-swinger has a reputation as a clubhouse leader and won a title with K.C. in 2015. He may prefer to go to a winner, but the young Padres could be a sneaky-decent fit.
Assuming the Boston Red Sox or another deep-pocketed contender doesn't overpay for Hosmer, this isn't as implausible as it sounds.
B.S. Meter: Two
               
All statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference unless otherwise noted.



Free-agent outfielder Andre Ethier has denied a report stating that he was planning to retire.
Ethier told Ken Gurnick of MLB.com that a report from FanRag Sports' Robert Murray stating he planned to call it a career is "totally untrue." Ethier added that his back is healthy and he's preparing to play next season.
Ethier has spent 12 years in MLB, all of which came with the Los Angeles Dodgers. The Dodgers bought out the final year of his contract for $2.5 million earlier this month. 
Injuries limited Ethier to 38 games between 2016 and 2017, but the Orange County Register's Bill Plunkett reported in September the 35-year-old planned to return in 2018:
"Ethier says he feels healthy and strong, nothing more than the normal soreness a 35-year-old has the day after a game. And he unquestionably believes there is more baseball left in his body despite the setbacks of the past two years.
"'Oh, 100 percent. I believed that last year when I came back,' Ethier says. 'Whether more baseball is this month or until the end of October, I don’t know.'"
It's easy to forget after the last two years how productive Ethier was offensively in his prime. A two-time All-Star, he batted .286 and slugged .464 between 2006 and 2015, according to Baseball Reference. He also averaged 16 home runs and 68 RBI a year during that span.
Were Ethier to continue playing next year, he'd be an especially good fit for an American League team.
Defense has never been Ethier's speciality. He has a minus-34.1 ultimate zone rating in the outfield over his career, per FanGraphs. Between his age and injury history, Ethier would work best as a designated hitter, which would simultaneously hide his defensive flaws and limit his physical workload.



The Boston Red Sox reportedly have "tepid" interest in acquiring outfielder Giancarlo Stanton from the Miami Marlins, according to Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe.
Per Cafardo, a Marlins source also noted that the Red Sox didn't rate highly when it came to Miami's assessment of minor league systems across the league.
According to MLB Network's Ken Rosenthal (h/t MLB.com's Jon Paul Morosi and Ben Weinrib), the San Francisco Giants and St. Louis Cardinals have already made an offer for Stanton, while the Los Angeles Dodgers and Red Sox are expected to as well.
Chad Jennings of the Boston Herald recently reported Stanton would not be willing to waive his no-trade clause for a move to the Red Sox.
While the Red Sox don't necessarily need a corner outfielder with Mookie Betts and Andrew Benintendi already in the fold, every team could use a player with Stanton's power.
The 28-year-old slugger hit .281 and set career highs with 59 home runs, 132 RBI and 123 runs scored last season en route to winning the National League MVP award.
Boston undoubtedly needs more pop in the middle of its lineup, as it ranked 27th in Major League Baseball with 168 home runs last season.
If the Red Sox are going to acquire Stanton, they may be forced to take on the vast majority of the $295 million remaining on his contract, provided Miami truly isn't enamored with Boston's farm system.
Stanton may be the best pure power hitter in the league and an ideal fit for the Red Sox at Fenway Park with the Green Monster in left field, but the financial commitment necessary to acquire Stanton could handcuff the organization in other ways moving forward.



Japanese dual-threat baseball sensation Shohei Ohtani is requesting further information from all 30 MLB teams about how he'd fit in their organization.
On Saturday, Ronald Blum of the Associated Press passed along details from a memo the pitcher and outfielder's agent, Nez Balelo, provided to clubs that asks them to evaluate his talent in both roles and explain how he'd "integrate" within the franchise.
Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com reported this week MLB and the Players Association reached an agreement on a new posting system that will allow Ohtani's current team, the Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters, to receive a $20 million payment, though his expected signing bonus will likely fall below that amount.
The Associated Press noted a formal vote on the issue is expected Dec. 1. If approved, the three-time Nippon Professional Baseball All-Star selection will be made available for bidding.
Along with the request for his possible fit with each club, the memo sought more info about their facilities, medical staffs, the city in which they play and resources for potential "cultural assimilation" when he arrives to the United States for the 2018 season, according to the AP.
Oliver Macklin of MLB.com passed along comments the 23-year-old made earlier in November about being unsure whether an MLB team will let him both pitch and hit.
"I don't know if I'll be given the chance to be able to do it, so first of all, I'll have to listen to what they say," Ohtani said. "You can't go after something like that unless you're in the right circumstance. It's not just about what I want to do."
Ohtani owns a career .286/.358/.500 triple-slash line with 48 home runs across 403 games with the Fighters. He also compiled a 2.52 ERA and 1.08 WHIP with 624 strikeouts in 543 innings.



The Toronto Blue Jays have launched an investigation after six players from their minor league affiliates tested positive for performance-enhancing drugs, according to the Canadian Press (via ESPN.com).
Blue Jays general manager Ross Atkins released a statement regarding the news:
"This situation is very disappointing and disturbing to the organization; disappointing that the players made these choices, but more so disturbing that some failure of our environment allowed this to happen. It is our responsibility to create an environment and culture where our players know that PED use is not condoned, and to give them resources and education to ensure that they do not make these decisions."
Drug testers flagged all six players, who are listed below, for the steroid boldenone:
Concepcion received a 60-game suspension, while the others were given 72-game punishments. Concepcion was also the only player among the group who didn't finish the season with Toronto's affiliate in the Dominican Summer League.
The 19-year-old went 2-2 in nine Rookie League appearances in 2017. He posted a 3.78 ERA over 33.1 innings.
Ventura led the Dominican Summer League Blue Jays in slugging percentage (.419), while Perez's 24 RBI were second on the team. Cardona batted .249 and had 15 stolen bases.



Count the Seattle Mariners among the teams that will aggressively pursue two-way Japanese stud Shohei Ohtani once he's posted next week.  
On his podcast, The Wheelhouse with Jerry Dipoto, Seattle Mariners general manager Jerry Dipoto disclosed Wednesday the Mariners plan to make every effort to sign Ohtani. 
"We have spent most of the past year preparing for this moment," Dipoto said, according to MLB.com's Greg Johns. "Whether it's written presentations, something aesthetic for him to touch and feel ... we've put together a film on the merits of Seattle and the Mariners. And we're hopeful at some point we get to sit down in the same room."
Dipoto added he thinks the franchise's connection to several prolific Japanese players, including Ichiro Suzuki, could help the Mariners in their recruitment of the 23-year-old. 
"The history of the Japanese player in Seattle has been so celebrated and some of the greatest players in our franchise's history have been from Japan," Dipoto said. "There is an attraction there. There has to be, for a player who is as respectful of those who came before him as Shohei Ohtani appears to be."
If there's a roadblock for the Mariners, it's that they only have $1.5 million available in international signing bonus money available to offer Ohtani, according to the Associated Press' Ronald Blum. 
Conversely, the Texas Rangers ($3.5 million), New York Yankees ($3.25 million) and Minnesota Twins ($3.24 million) all have far more free cash flow at their disposal. 
It also doesn't help that "many Yankee competitors are now viewing them as the supreme favorite," according to FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman. 
That said, Dipoto made it clear he would make every attempt to free up monetary resources if it means the Mariners will have a better shot at landing the power-hitting lefty who has also flashed promise as a fireball-throwing right-handed pitcher. 
"We're not going to leave a stone unturned in the efforts to do it again if the opportunity arises," Dipoto said. "We'll be responsible in how we do it, but we understand this is a one-time buying opportunity and you have to be prepared."
Once MLB owners approve new posting guidelines that were tentatively agreed upon Tuesday, Ohtani will have 21 days to sign with a new team, according to the New York Post's Joel Sherman. 



The San Francisco Giants and Miami Marlins discussed including Marlins second baseman Dee Gordon in a potential Giancarlo Stanton trade, FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman confirmed Wednesday.
SiriusXM's Craig Mish first reported Monday the Giants and Marlins had preliminary talks about a deal in which Gordon and Stanton would head to San Francisco in return for second baseman Joe Panik, minor league pitcher Tyler Beede and minor league outfielder Chris Shaw.
Heyman tweeted, however, the odds of Gordon landing with the Giants may be low, since "other teams have greater [second base] need."
Heyman called the Los Angeles Angels and Toronto Blue Jays the "most logical" destinations for Gordon and added the New York Mets are in the market for a second baseman as well.
While Stanton is fresh off winning the National League Most Valuable Player Award, the Marlins appear likely to move the 28-year-old outfielder. The Miami Herald's Barry Jackson reported in September the franchise's new ownership group, which includes former New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter, plans to shed some payroll.
Since that's the case, Gordon is a natural trade candidate as well. He's set to make $37 million over the next three seasons and has a $14 million vested option for 2021.
The Marlins should be in a position to receive good value back should they deal Gordon. The 29-year-old was tied for seventh among second basemen in WAR (3.3) in 2017, per FanGraphs. He stole an MLB-best 60 bases—though he was also caught stealing a league-high 16 times. His .308 batting average and .341 on-base percentage were also the second-highest of his MLB career.
Especially with a weak crop of free agents at the position this offseason, Gordon would be a sensible target for any team looking to upgrade at second base.



Houston Astros second baseman Jose Altuve took home the first MVP award of his career in 2017, beating out Aaron Judge by a sizable margin for the honor.
Altuve winning the award also made him just the eighth player in the past 50 years to take home the MVP award along with the batting crown and a world championship, per the Elias Sports Bureau (via ESPN.com). The others to do the same previously include Joe DiMaggio (1939), Stan Musial (1946), Willie Mays (1954), Mickey Mantle (1956), Dick Groat (1960), Frank Robinson (1966) and Buster Posey (2012).
The 27-year-old hit .346 for the Astros this season, leading the American League for a second straight season and the third time in the last four campaigns. Altuve has consistently knocked around opposing pitchers, possessing a .316 batting average.
Altuve possesses a rare blend of pop and speed especially for a player who stands just 5'6" tall. He tied his career-high mark for home runs in 2017, posting 24 of them for the second straight year. The Venezuela native also racked up 32 steals, the sixth straight year in which he's topped 30.
With only two years remaining on his contract, Altuve is almost certainly due to receive a big pay bump following the 2019 season. It's quite possible, however, that the Astros will sign him to a contract extension before he ever hits the market.



Major League Baseball's 2017 season ended just three weeks ago, yet it feels like the game never left because of all the rumors and rumblings of what could be happening before teams arrive at spring training in February. 
Trades are always more complex than free-agent signings because they require at least one team to take on, depending on the player, a lot of existing money on a contract and give up significant pieces of their future to make a deal happen. 
There are always teams on the verge of competing for a World Series or playoff spot that want to make a big splash. On the other side of the equation, there are always teams trending downward with a significant asset to deal that can help them get where the Chicago Cubs were in 2016 and Houston Astros are right now. 
Looking around MLB, here are the latest trade rumblings to keep an eye on. 
         
Cards, Giants Make Pitch for Stanton

On the heels of being named the 2017 National League MVP, Miami Marlins slugger Giancarlo Stanton now awaits his fate to find out where he will play next season. 
It's no secret the Marlins' new ownership group wants to cut payroll, with Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald reporting they want to get down to the $90 million range. 
That's a problem for a team that has $131 million in salary commitments to eight players in 2018, not factoring arbitration and pre-arbitration guys. Stanton has the biggest deal, by far, at $25 million next season and is signed through 2027. 
With Stanton possibly on his way out of Miami, it's no surprise to see two teams in need of a big bat making an offer to the Marlins. 
Per SiriusXM's Craig Mish, the San Francisco Giants offered a package of three players for Stanton and Dee Gordon:
Source : Giants/Marlins names exchanged in potential Stanton deal : (SF) 2B Joe Panik, Top Prospects SP Tyler Beede &amp; OF Chris Shaw. (Mia) Stanton &amp; 2B Dee Gordon.
MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported the St. Louis Cardinals have also made a formal offer to the Marlins for Stanton, though names included were not released. Mish did note the proposal includes right-handed pitcher Sandy Alcantara, who appeared in eight MLB games after being called up in September. 
The Giants are trying to put a band-aid on a broken leg, presumably in an effort to not waste anymore prime years of Madison Bumgarner and Buster Posey. They bottomed out last season with a 64-98 record, tied for the second-most losses in a season in franchise history.
One of San Francisco's problems that made 2017 so difficult is its an old team loaded with big contracts. Seven players on the roster for next season will make at least $15.2 million. 
Another issue for the Giants is a bad farm system that lacks impact and depth. Baseball America ranked their system as the 24th-best at the start of last season.
Tyler Beede, one of the players reportedly included in San Francisco's trade proposal for Stanton, had a 4.79 ERA with more hits allowed (121) than innings pitched (109) and just 83 strikeouts in Triple-A last season. 
Essentially, the Giants are just hoping the Marlins are so desperate to be rid of the contracts for Stanton and Gordon to sell low on a deal. 
The Cardinals are better equipped to trade impact players from the minor leagues to make a deal for Stanton. Alcantara has big stuff with a fastball that averaged 98.3 mph in his brief cup of coffee at the MLB level last season, per FanGraphs. 
Alcantara's 4.31 ERA in Double-A isn't impressive, but one key advantage he has as a trade chip over Beede is age. At 22, St. Louis' flame-thrower is two full years younger than Beede. He has more time to refine his command and control to develop into a potential top-of-the-rotation arm.
There's also the chance this entire discussion will be moot for both teams since Stanton has a full no-trade clause, giving him the ability to dictate his future. If he just wants out of Miami for a chance to win, teams like the Giants and Cardinals will keep working the phones. 
If Stanton, who is from the Los Angeles area, wants to play for a team like the Dodgers, Miami's hands become more tied than they already are. 
         
Mets Eyeing Ian Kinsler

Who are the New York Mets?
Are they closer to being the team that won the 2015 National League pennant and advanced to the postseason in 2016? Are they an unlucky, injury-riddled group that fell apart with a 70-92 record last season?
On raw talent, the Mets are probably closer to the former group. A core that includes Yoenis Cespedes, Michael Conforto, Noah Syndergaard, Jacob deGrom and budding stars like Dominic Smith and Amed Rosario is a really good place to start. 
If the Mets front office believes last season was more of a fluke occurrence than a sign of imminent decline, it's not a surprise they would try to make a bold move to upgrade their roster. 
Per Morosi, the Mets have had "preliminary discussions" with the Detroit Tigers about second baseman Ian Kinsler. 
It's not a bad idea, in theory, because the Tigers have no reason to keep a 35-year-old making $11 million in 2018. They traded Justin Verlander, Justin Wilson and Justin Upton in the middle of last season, signaling that they want to start building for the future. 
The Mets need a second baseman, unless they want to put Asdrubal Cabrera or Gavin Cecchini there to start the season. 
But Kinsler doesn't seem like a good answer for the Mets, given his age and current skill set. His .236 average in 2017 was the worst of his career and his .412 slugging percentage tied his lowest in a single season. 
Kinsler's entire value at this point in his career is almost entirely on defense. He still grades out well, leading all American League second baseman in FanGraphs defensive value (7.8) and defensive runs saved (six) last season.
There's not a great market for second baseman in free agency. Neil Walker, who the Mets traded to the Milwaukee Brewers in August, is the best of a mediocre bunch. 
The Mets are smart to explore all options as they look to improve in 2018, but investing in another aging and offensively-limited middle infielder isn't in their best interest. 
          
The Jurickson Profar Dilemma

It's hard not to interpret the Texas Rangers' handling of Jurickson Profar as an indication they don't view him as a long-term asset. 
Once the top prospect in MLB, Profar's career was derailed when he missed two full years in 2014 and 2015 due to shoulder injuries. He did return in 2016 and has appeared in 112 MLB games over the past two seasons, posting a disappointing .227/.316/.315 slash line in that time. 
Even though Profar's career hasn't taken off as expected when he was an elite prospect, he's only 24 years old and hit .287/.383/.428 in Triple-A last season. 
Since there still seems to be something there with Profar, it's hardly a surprise that Evan Grant of the Dallas Morning News reported most teams have checked in with the Rangers about the young infielder. 
Joel Sherman of the New York Post got it started by reporting the New York Yankees looked at Profar, despite having an abundance of infielders at the MLB level and in the minors. 
If the Rangers wanted to see what Profar could do, it would've made sense to have him replace second baseman Rougned Odor at some point last season. Odor was the worst second baseman in MLB last season by FanGraphs wins above replacement, hitting just .204/.252/.397. 
Profar needs a change of scenery and a chance to play for a franchise that will throw him in the lineup every day to get consistent reps against MLB pitching to see what he can do. It may not work, but we don't know because the Rangers have never given him a real opportunity. 
       
Contract info via Cot's Baseball Contracts. 



It's good enough that Major League Baseball has Giancarlo Stanton and Aaron Judge set to go toe-to-toe in pursuit of slugging accolades for many years to come.
Even better would be if their rivalry were also a face-to-face affair, with Stanton and Judge on opposite sides of the long-running feud between the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees.
Stanton, the National League MVP, and Judge, the American League MVP runner-up, are gigantic right fielders who made impressive shows of launching 59 and 52 home runs, respectively, in 2017. It was hard not to think of them as two very big peas in a very big pod.
But with Stanton playing in the NL East with the Miami Marlins and Judge playing in the AL East with the Yankees, they were rivals much more in theory than in reality.
"It's the kind of a thing where we both have to talk about all the time but don't even know each other, or said hello," Stanton said in July, per Michelle Kaufman of the Miami Herald. "It's like the twin you've never met, I guess. Everyone's comparing us to each other. We don't even know each other."
However, nothing can strike up a true rivalry like close proximity. That may be in the cards for Stanton and Judge.
Stanton and the remainder of his 13-year, $325 million contract are on the chopping block as new Marlins owners Bruce Sherman and Derek Jeter seek to cut payroll. According to Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic, the trade offers are rolling in:
Sources: #SFGiants among teams making trade offers for #Marlins’ Stanton. Story unlocked, free to all.... https://t.co/zI18FzPr25
Per Jon Paul Morosi and Ben Weinrib of MLB.com, the St. Louis Cardinals have since joined the San Francisco Giants in making an offer for Stanton. The Red Sox haven't yet, but are expected to.
After hitting an American-League-low 168 home runs in 2017, the Red Sox surely have a need for Stanton's power. With young talent to deal and pockets deep enough for the $295 million remaining on Stanton's contract, they also fit the profile of a team that can trade for him.
One catch is that the Giants and the Cardinals seem to be more aggressive in their pursuits of Stanton. There's also the question of whether Stanton would waive his no-trade clause for the Red Sox.
A move to Boston wouldn't be a homecoming for the Southern California native. He'd also be blocked from right field by Mookie Betts. Plus, projections from ESPN.com's Dan Szymborski caution that Fenway Park wouldn't actually be a boon to Stanton's power.
As easy as it may be to imagine Stanton launching ball after ball over the Green Monster, that 37-foot wall gives death to hard line drives as easy as it gives life to high fly balls. That's a potential issue for Stanton, who hits home runs at a lower angle (25.4 degrees) than the average hitter (28.0 degrees). 
Still, nobody's going to mischaracterize Fenway Park as a stadium that can utterly destroy Stanton's power. No such stadium exists. Maybe he couldn't keep chasing 60 homers in Boston, but he could keep chasing 50 homers without much trouble. 
Since they're coming off consecutive division titles, the Red Sox also have an advantage over the Giants and Cardinals regarding Stanton's no-trade clause: a more direct path to the wins he so desperately craves.
All told, Stanton in a Red Sox uniform is a legitimate and exciting possibility. But even more exciting is how it would set up a big rivalry inside an even bigger rivalry.
Even if it's a mighty stretch to label them as true rivals, it's understandable if anyone looks at Stanton and Judge and wonders if they're seeing double. 
The two are separated by age (Stanton is 28; Judge is 25) and experience (Stanton has hit 267 homers in eight seasons; Judge just 56 in just over one season) but not much else. Both are massive, with Stanton checking in at 6'6", 245 pounds and Judge at 6'7", 282 pounds. Both pack their bulk into a heck of a punch. To wit, their first full shared season as major leaguers ended with them owning the list of 2017's hardest-hit homers.
Sure, neither is perfect. Both can be made to swing and miss, and Stanton's injury track record is arguably as big a red flag as Judge's lack of a track record.
Even still, they're singular talents. They're also perfect avatars for the era that Major League Baseball now finds itself in. The game spent several years in the hands of hurlers. Fresh off a 2017 season with record-setting home run numbers, the game is now squarely in the hands of sluggers.
Every home run they launch has meaning to this extent. Putting them in the same division and ensuring their home runs also have meaning for the standings is a good way to up the ante.
Which, in turn, makes putting them in the AL East and on either side of the Red Sox-Yankees rivalry the best way to up it.
The rivalry was an all-out war in the mid-2000s, but then faded in subsequent years as the Red Sox and Yankees took turns rising and falling. This past season marked the end of that period. Both clubs made the playoffs for the first time since 2009 and, per Neil Paine of FiveThirtyEight, played their most meaningful games since 2005. Since each team is loaded with young talent, future seasons should contain more where that came from.
The only gripe is that the modern Red Sox-Yankees rivalry isn't well-balanced in regard to power. While the Red Sox were busy finishing dead last in the AL in homers in 2017, Judge and the Yankees were busy hitting an MLB-high 241 homers.
Stanton alone wouldn't balance those scales, but he'd give the Red Sox a leg up on paper. And, more importantly, a guy who could respond in kind when Judge is dropping bombs in head-to-head matchups.
At the risk of actually going there, picture Stanton as the Ted Williams to Judge's Joe DiMaggio. Their individual rivalry would have that kind of epic feeling, and it could mean appropriately huge things in an ongoing Red Sox vs. Yankees battle for AL East supremacy.
Now all that needs to happen is for one little trade to go through.
                  
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Baseball Savant. 




Every MLB franchise enters the offseason with dreams. Unfortunately, like all dreams, they can curdle into nightmares.
In some cases, it's a club failing to acquire the assets necessary to remain a viable contender or vault toward a title. In others, it's a squad selling low on a bankable asset or letting a key free agent walk away. Some are more nightmarish than others, depending on the strength and status of the roster in question, but none are ideal.
As the hot stove crackles to life, let's run through all 30 teams and identify the winter scenario that would have their front office and fan base waking in a cold sweat.
Cue the music.

Houston Astros: Failing to fortify the bullpen
The Houston Astros are the reigning champions. They could stand pat, and they'd enter 2018 as the favorites in the American League West and possibly the Junior Circuit.
That said, Houston could use reinforcements in a bullpen that was a liability in the postseason. Astros relievers, from closer Ken Giles down, wobbled on the October stage and forced manager A.J. Hinch to lean on members of his regular-season starting rotation to bridge the late-inning gap.
Fortunately for Houston, there are a number of top-shelf relievers on the market this winter, including Wade Davis, Greg Holland and Addison Reed.
As they mount their title defense, the 'Stros need to sign at least one elite bullpen arm.
                   
Los Angeles Angels: Making the Justin Upton contract their only big splash
The Los Angeles Angels opened the offseason with a bang, inking outfielder Justin Upton to a five-year, $106 million contract extension. 
The Angels acquired the 30-year-old from the Detroit Tigers in August, and he hit 35 home runs with a .901 OPS overall, both career highs.
That said, the Halos' budget is strained by Albert Pujols' albatross contract, and it will take more than Upton to turn this team into a legitimate contender. In particular, Los Angeles needs help in the starting rotation.
Perhaps ownership is prepared to further loosen the purse strings. If not, two-time AL MVP Mike Trout should brace himself for another lost season.
                  
Oakland Athletics: Stalling the sell-off
The Oakland Athletics are in the midst of another painful rebuild. That's nothing new in the East Bay.
They dealt ace Sonny Gray, among others, at the July 31 non-waiver trade deadline and have already traded infielder Ryon Healy this winter.
Painful as it is, the A's have to continue the sell-off and restock their farm system. Their already modest rooting contingent may be fed up after three straight losing campaigns, but executive vice president Billy Beane and Company know this is the road map.
              
Seattle Mariners: Failing to boost the starting rotation
The Seattle Mariners haven't tasted the postseason since 2001. In 2017, a hobbled rotation kept that drought alive.
Mariners starters ranked 18th in baseball with a 4.70 ERA, and their starting corps was beset by injuries. James Paxton, erstwhile ace Felix Hernandez and Mike Leake are all locked into starting roles, but there's uncertainty beyond that.
The M's may not be able to afford a top free-agent starter in the Jake Arrieta or Yu Darvish mold, but it'll be up to general manager Jerry Dipoto to get creative.
                        
Texas Rangers: Failing to boost the starting rotation
Like Seattle, the Texas Rangers will need to fortify a rotation that is an uncertain mishmash behind 33-year-old Cole Hamels, whose numbers took a dip in 2017. 
Texas traded Darvish at the non-waiver deadline, and now he, along with righty Andrew Cashner, is a free agent. The Rangers could bring back either or both, or they could toss money at Arrieta.
Whatever they do, they can't ignore the starting corps if they want to return to relevance, let alone challenge Houston for Lone Star State supremacy.

Chicago White Sox: Trading Jose Abreu 
The Chicago White Sox have morphed into the franchise of the future and stockpiled a farm system Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter ranked No. 2 in the game.
So it may be tempting to trade 30-year-old first baseman Jose Abreu. Surely there would be takers.
The slugging Cuban is worth keeping, however, after he smacked 33 home runs with a .906 OPS in 2017. He can't become a free agent until 2020 and could serve as a mentor to countryman and rising star Yoan Moncada.
His price tag will rise through arbitration, but the Sox have the payroll flexibility to keep him on the South Side without busting the budget.
                        
Cleveland Indians: Losing Carlos Santana to free agency
The Cleveland Indians didn't defend their American League title in 2017, falling in the division series to the Yankees.
Still, the Tribe enter 2018 without any glaring holes and have a shot to reascend the game's brightest stage.
They could lose some power, however, with first baseman Carlos Santana and outfielder Jay Bruce both on the market. Bruce gave the lineup a lift after coming over from the New York Mets before the August deadline, but Santana will be a tougher loss if he signs elsewhere.
The 31-year-old switch-hitter belted 23 homers, posted a typically strong .363 on-base percentage and has quietly turned into a solid defensive first baseman, as his 10 defensive runs saved attest.
Santana won't command as many years or dollars as fellow free-agent first baseman Eric Hosmer, who is reportedly in line for a nine-figure payday, per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports. But he may well price out of Cleveland's modest range. That would leave the team to shop for a bargain replacement or turn to a combo of in-house options, including outfielder Lonnie Chisenhall, who has seen limited action at the position, and Edwin Encarnacion, who is a defensive liability.
Either way, Cleveland would sorely miss Santana.
              
Detroit Tigers: Stalling the rebuild
The Detroit Tigers kicked their overdue rebuild into gear in 2017, selling off key pieces such as reliever Justin Wilson, outfielder Justin Upton and ace Justin Verlander and restocking a formerly moribund farm system.
Executive vice president of baseball operations Al Avila and Company have to keep their foot on the gas this winter. Second baseman Ian Kinsler and shortstop Jose Iglesias are both tradable assets who could fetch a decent return. Even franchise icon Miguel Cabrera shouldn't be off the table, though his age (34) and contract (he's owed more than $180 million through at least 2023) will make moving him difficult. 
At any rate, the Tigers should aggressively work the phones this offseason, shed salary and continue adding minor league pieces with both eyes squarely on the future.
             
Kansas City Royals: Losing all their free agents
The Kansas City Royals eschewed a sell-off at the 2017 deadline, opting instead to keep their impending free agents and make an ultimately unsuccessful run at a wild-card spot. 
Now, K.C. risks losing a huge part of its core. Outfielder Lorenzo Cain, third baseman Mike Moustakas and first baseman Eric Hosmer are all on the market, along with ancillary pieces, including shortstop Alcides Escobar and left-hander Jason Vargas.
There's no way the Royals can afford to keep them all, and they'd get draft-pick compensation for Hosmer, Cain and Moustakas, each of whom received qualifying offers. 
If all three of those players leave town, however, Kansas City's recent run of success and 2015 title will fade in the rearview.
                          
Minnesota Twins: Failing to add an impact starting pitcher
The Minnesota Twins took a big leap forward in 2017, winning 85 games and grabbing the second AL wild-card spot.
They can build on that success with a talented young lineup, but they need to buttress a starting rotation that is a jumble of youngsters and question marks after right-hander Ervin Santana.
The Twins will never spend with the game's richest clubs, but they have payroll flexibility and a path to the postseason in a division that features two and possibly three rebuilding teams.
Tossing $20 million-plus per season at Arrieta or Darvish is probably a stretch, but Minnesota could target a second-tier impact arm such as Lance Lynn, Alex Cobb or Andrew Cashner. 

Baltimore Orioles: Seeing the starting rotation get even worse
Baltimore Orioles starting pitchers posted a 5.70 ERA in 2017. Chris Tillman, Ubaldo Jimenez, Wade Miley and Jeremy Hellickson are all free agents, and while none exactly lit the league ablaze last season, that leaves the O's with holes to fill behind Kevin Gausman and Dylan Bundy. 
There are options on the free-agent shelves if Baltimore is willing to spend, but there will be stiff competition for the top names. And there aren't any MLB-ready prospects beating down the door in the Orioles system.
Add it up, and it's possible an already suspect starting corps could go from bad to dismal.
   
Boston Red Sox: Failing to land an impact power bat
The Boston Red Sox won a second consecutive AL East title in 2017 but were once again bounced in the division series.
There was blame to go around, and manager John Farrell got the ax, but one of the culprits was a striking lack of power.
Even as balls flew out of MLB parks in record numbers, Boston finished last in the AL and 27th in baseball with 168 homers.
The Sox have a talented young offensive nucleus headlined by right fielder Mookie Betts but need to land a bat with pop.
The most obvious hole is at first base, where Carlos Santana, Logan Morrison, Yonder Alonso and Lucas Duda could all be had on relatively reasonable deals. Eric Hosmer is also out there, though he could be a poor fit at his reported asking price. 
No matter what, Boston needs to add thump and get in on the home run revolution.
   
New York Yankees: Not signing Shohei Ohtani
Every team will be connected to Shohei Ohtani this winter. The two-way Japanese star is a tantalizing talent who can be had for the league minimum salary, plus a $20 million posting fee, because he's seeking to enter MLB before his 25th birthday.
Since money won't be the decider, Ohtani presumably will pick his new team based on other factors, including market size, prestige and an opportunity to win.
The New York Yankees aren't the only club that checks all those boxes, but they make a ton of sense for Ohtani. In early November, all five of Bleacher Report's baseball prognosticators predicted Ohtani would end up in pinstripes. 
If that doesn't happen—if the Los Angeles Dodgers or someone else swoops in—it'll be a significant letdown for the burgeoning Yanks.
       
Tampa Bay Rays: Losing Logan Morrison's pop
The Tampa Bay Rays weren't expecting 38 home runs and an .868 OPS when they signed Logan Morrison to a one-year, $2.5 million pact. 
That's exactly what they got, however, and now Morrison has likely priced himself out of the small-market Rays' range.
There are cheaper alternatives on the market, including Mitch Moreland and Mike Napoli, but Tampa Bay will sorely miss Morrison's bargain-basement contract and All-Star-caliber power.
   
Toronto Blue Jays: Treading water
The Toronto Blue Jays had their run of two straight postseason appearances snapped in 2017. Now, they enter 2018 caught between a rebuild and another run at contention.
If they can shore up the back end of the starting rotation and add a bat or two, they could be in the wild-card mix. Or, they could shop third baseman and franchise face Josh Donaldson ahead of his contract season.
What they can't afford to do is stand pat, or add only ancillary pieces. That's the path to another sub-.500 finish and, probably, watching Donaldson walk after 2018 for a massive payday elsewhere.

Arizona Diamondbacks: Losing J.D. Martinez
After grabbing the NL's top wild-card spot and winning the Wild Card Game in 2017, the Arizona Diamondbacks are primed to contend again.
They also could lose trade-deadline acquisition J.D. Martinez, who socked 29 home runs in 62 games for the Snakes after coming over from Detroit.
The 30-year-old slugger could net a nine-figure contract, which will be a stretch for an Arizona payroll already burdened by Zack Greinke's megadeal.
The Diamondbacks won't be lost without Martinez. They've still got MVP candidate Paul Goldschmidt to anchor the lineup. They will, however, sorely miss his bat if another franchise backs up the Brink's truck.
   
Colorado Rockies: Backsliding in the bullpen
The Colorado Rockies made the postseason in 2017 thanks in part to a bullpen that went from a 5.13 ERA in 2016 to a 4.40 ERA. Mixing in the Coors Field effect, that's especially impressive. 
Closer Greg Holland (61 G, 3.61 ERA, 41 SV), left-hander Jake McGee (62 G, 3.61 ERA, 20 HLD) and trade-deadline acquisition Pat Neshek (71 G, 23 HLD, 1.59 ERA) are all on the market.
There will be multiple suitors for all three, meaning the Rockies will need to be aggressive or risk seeing a newfound strength morph back into a weakness. 
   
Los Angeles Dodgers: Losing reliever Brandon Morrow
It's a testament to the depth and talent of the Los Angeles Dodgers that losing a relief pitcher (non-closer variety) is their biggest offseason worry.
Brandon Morrow, however, was a huge part of the 2017 bullpen behind closer Kenley Jansen. After inking a minor league deal, Morrow posted a 2.06 ERA and 10.3 strikeouts per nine innings and was a key contributor in the postseason.
The Dodgers could let him go and shop for a replacement, but simply losing Morrow's contributions would sting for the defending NL champs.
   
San Diego Padres: Trading away young talent
Executive A.J. Preller and the San Diego Padres appear committed to a rebuild and possess one of the game's top farm systems.
A lot of that talent is still a year or more from making a big league impact, however, and the Friars are in for another long, losing season.
That could tempt Preller to deal some of his MiLB chips and accelerate the process, but it's an urge he should resist at all costs, especially considering what happened last time.
   
San Francisco Giants: Failing to add a big bat
The San Francisco Giants lost 98 games in 2017, all but erasing the good taste from their recent trio of even-year championships.
There's an argument to be made for tearing down the roster, but the Giants brain trust is apparently not interested in a rebuild.
Instead, they'll try to retool around a core that features the game's best catcher in Buster Posey and a battle-tested ace in Madison Bumgarner. 
The first order of business is acquiring a power hitter to challenge the marine layer at AT&T Park and boost a lineup that finished dead last in home runs and OPS.
The Giants are the "favorites" to land Miami Marlins slugger Giancarlo Stanton, per MLB.com's Mark Feinsand. A Stanton trade would burden San Francisco's payroll now and down the road and likely decimate an already-thin farm system.
The bigger sin, however, would be not making a splash and hoping for different results in 2018.

Chicago Cubs: Missing out on the aces
With Jake Arrieta and John Lackey both hitting free agency, the Chicago Cubs have holes to fill in their starting rotation.
They could do it by signing a couple of arms from the second tier we've discussed elsewhere—the Lance Lynn/Alex Cobb/Andrew Cashner contingent. 
But with Jon Lester entering his age-34 season and Jose Quintana coming off an up-and-down campaign, the Cubs could use a no-doubt ace.
You could argue Kyle Hendricks fills that role, but the 27-year-old control artist has yet to eclipse 200 innings in a season. And the Cubs aren't merely trying to contend; they're trying to catch the Dodgers for NL supremacy.
Expect Chicago to be in on Yu Darvish and at least kick the tires on an Arrieta reunion. There's a decent chance the Cubbies whiff on both, however, especially if they decide to re-up closer Wade Davis or sign a ninth-inning replacement.
   
Cincinnati Reds: Trading young talent
Like San Diego, the Cincinnati Reds are in the midst of a rebuild. Their minor league system isn't quite as loaded as the Padres', but it features some enticing pieces, headlined by right-hander and potential superstar Hunter Greene.
Greene isn't going anywhere, but Cincinnati needs to avoid selling any MiLB chips as it seeks to stock the big league roster. 
The Milwaukee Brewers took a surprise leap from rebuild to contention last season, but they did so without sacrificing the future. That's the model to follow.
   
Milwaukee Brewers: Trading young talent
The Brewers came tantalizingly close to the playoffs in 2017. Franchise cornerstone Ryan Braun was limited to 104 games, but they got 31 homers and 101 RBI from third baseman Travis Shaw and 31 home runs plus an .877 OPS from first baseman Eric Thames.
They could use a top-shelf starting pitcher to augment the duo of Chase Anderson and Jimmy Nelson. They also need to address a hole at second base, with Neil Walker set to hit free agency and Jonathan Villar a regressing enigma.
Going shopping on the free-agent market is fine, but the Brew Crew should once again thumb its nose at any trade proposal involving top prospects such as outfielders Lewis Brinson and Corey Ray.
   
Pittsburgh Pirates: Failing to initiate a rebuild
Sorry, Pittsburgh Pirates fans, the time has come.
Sure, the Bucs could make another go at the wild card by adding some cheap, complementary pieces. They might even get there. But they've done that dance before.
Now is the moment to trade the likes of outfielder Andrew McCutchen—who is coming off a bounce-back season and entering his contract year—and rebuild the farm.
Yes, watching beloved players such as McCutchen, All-Star Josh Harrison and ace Gerrit Cole go would be painful, but it's the only way the modest-spending Pirates could ever contend for more than a taste of the playoffs.
   
St. Louis Cardinals: Losing out on Giancarlo Stanton
As mentioned, the Giants are reportedly the favorites to land Stanton. The St. Louis Cardinals, however, "may still be a factor," as MLB.com's Mark Feinsand noted.
The Cards have a competent offense but lack a middle-of-the-order bopper. Acquiring Stanton, as Bleacher Report's Zachary D. Rymer recently argued, would solve that problem and put pressure on the rival Cubs.
The risks to payroll and the farm system apply to St. Louis as well, but they're a sneaky-good fit for Stanton. Plus, his presence might elevate them from also-ran status to the Senior Circuit's upper echelon.

Atlanta Braves: Trading young talent
Hey, broken-record alert.
The Atlanta Braves have the best farm system in baseball, per Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter. The future is bright, but the present could entail more losing.
The Braves can afford to be patient, with the Washington Nationals likely to lose Bryce Harper to a ludicrous free-agent contract after 2018 and the New York Mets, Miami Marlins and Philadelphia Phillies all in various states of transition.
Now is the time to nurture the likes of outfielder Ronald Acuna and left-hander Kolby Allard, stud prospects who could soon join shortstop Dansby Swanson and second baseman Ozzie Albies at the highest level.
   
Miami Marlins: Trading Marcell Ozuna and Christian Yelich
The Giancarlo Stanton rumors make sense for Miami, which is trying to shed payroll under a new ownership group led by Derek Jeter. 
Outfielders Marcell Ozuna and Christian Yelich have also floated through the rumor mill, with Susan Slusser of the San Francisco Chronicle reporting the A's were interested. 
Ozuna and Yelich don't have Stanton's eye-melting power, but they're both under 30 and relatively inexpensive. If someone offers a ridiculous overpay in prospects, it might be worth considering.
Otherwise, these are two building blocks Jeter and Co. should keep around as they construct their vision in South Beach.
   
New York Mets: Getting any bad news on their pitchers' health
The offseason isn't generally a time when injuries hit, but you never know with the New York Mets' snakebitten rotation.
Last season, a slew of injuries decimated New York's starting corps and torpedoed any chance of contention.
Now, as we get closer to spring, the Queens faithful will hold their breath and hope Noah Syndergaard, Steven Matz, Zack Wheeler and maybe even Matt Harvey arrive to camp healthy and intact. 
   
Philadelphia Phillies: Overpaying because they can
In addition to exciting young talent in the minors and at the big league level, the Philadelphia Phillies have a ton of payroll flexibility. They've got just $6.35 million committed for 2018, per Spotrac, and another $19.2 million in projected arbitration salaries, per MLB Trade Rumors. 
That means they could splurge on any number of high-end free agents, which is fine in theory.
What the rebuilding Phils must avoid is an albatross overpay for the sake of it. Say, giving $200 million to Eric Hosmer or J.D. Martinez.
They've finally gotten out from under the bad money that ended their last era of success. There's no need to repeat the mistake.
   
Washington Nationals: Failing to upgrade the bullpen
The Washington Nationals boosted their bullpen in 2017 by acquiring Ryan Madson, Brandon Kintzler and Sean Doolittle. 
Kintzler is a free agent, along with Oliver Perez, Matt Albers and Joe Blanton. Last year, Washington rolled into the season with a suspect 'pen and upgraded at the trade deadline.
This season, with Bryce Harper, left-hander Gio Gonzalez and second baseman Daniel Murphy all entering their contract years, the Nats can't mess around. 
This may be their last chance for a while to advance past the division series and challenge for the franchise's first Commissioner's Trophy.
Re-upping some or all of the above free agents and adding a late-inning ace such as Wade Davis or Greg Holland would make that goal more attainable.
   
All statistics and contract information courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.



The press release from Major League Baseball dropped just before the close of business Tuesday.
"Commissioner's Statement Regarding Braves' Violations," it said, and that's exactly what this was.
It was a statement, perhaps the strongest one Rob Manfred has made yet in his three years as the commissioner of baseball. It was a statement heard round the baseball world, one that many who have decried the Wild West nature of baseball's international signing game had been hoping for but never really expected.
Manfred's full release, describing findings and penalties, was posted on MLB.com.
The Braves later responded to MLB's decision, saying they "cooperated fully throughout this investigation and we understand and accept the decision regarding the penalties that have been handed down."
"Game-changer," said one executive who has worked in the international market. "I think this will have a major impact in how people operate."
It should. It might not, because the incentives to cheat are still great. But at least now everyone in baseball should understand the penalties for cheating can be even greater.
Ask John Coppolella, the former Braves general manager who had already lost his job but now has lost any chance at getting another one in MLB. In addition to stripping the Braves of 12 prospects Coppolella and his staff signed over the last three years, Manfred placed Coppolella on MLB's permanently ineligible list.
To be clear, that's the Pete Rose list, the Shoeless Joe Jackson list, the list that says you did something so bad baseball wants no part of you anymore.
That's a statement.

Manfred also effectively prohibited the Braves from signing any significant international free agent between now and July 2, 2020, and cut their signing bonus pool in half for the year after that. Gordon Blakeley, who had been a Braves special assistant until he and Coppolella were forced to resign Oct. 2, received a one-year ban. Manfred also took away the Braves' third-round draft pick in June, because they were found to have broken one of the draft signing rules, too.
That's a statement, too.
There will be those who say everyone cheats on the international market, that the Braves were simply the team that got caught. Multiple officials from teams around baseball strongly disputed that sentiment in the hours after Manfred's announcement. All of them agreed the penalties were strong, even stunningly strong, but not one of them suggested they weren't justified.
"The Braves were reckless," one major league general manager said.
What did they do? Like everything in the international market, it's a little complicated, but we'll try to simplify it.
While players from outside the United States and Canada aren't subject to the June draft, teams can't simply sign anyone they want for as much money as they want to give. For the last several years, MLB has given each team a pool of money. What the Braves did, according to MLB, was circumvent those rules by giving some prospects smaller bonuses on paper while channeling more money to them through their agents and claiming it went to players not covered by the signing rules.
By doing so, they stayed within their cap for the 2015-16 signing period, enabling them to overspend the next year. Had they reported the bonuses they actually gave in 2015-16, they would have been prohibited from signing any player for more than $300,000 in 2016-17, effectively taking them out of the market for the nine "high-value" prospects they signed that year.
Basically, the Braves found a way to get around the rules and sign a huge number of players they could not have signed within the rules. Other teams trying to sign the same players suspected right away something fishy was going on, and an MLB investigation that took nearly two months found significant cheating.
Other teams have been charged with similar "bundling" violations in the past. Five players originally signed by the Boston Red Sox were made free agents in 2016, and the Red Sox were banned from international signings for a year.
"My [international scouts] have been upset for a long time because it progressively gets worse with more clubs each year," said another general manager, who said the Braves have been the worst offenders.

Both general managers contacted by Bleacher Report said the only long-term solution that would work is an international draft. One of the GMs called the current system unfair to the players involved, saying many of the bonuses never get to the players and are instead diverted to trainers and others who deliver the players to the teams that sign them.
The players union has long fought the idea of an international draft, believing it would cut bonuses even further by limiting players to negotiating with a single team. Baseball officials and players in the Dominican Republic, Venezuela and other countries have feared a draft and lower bonuses would harm the baseball infrastructure in those countries. The collective bargaining agreement, which runs through 2021, doesn't allow for a draft.
Baseball is going to continue to operate under the current system, at least for a while. Manfred is determined to get teams to play by those rules—or else. He showed Tuesday what "or else" means.
"I think it will put the brakes on things, at least for the immediate future," one of the GMs said. "MLB has done a lot, and I believe they will continue to work on this."
The Braves got hit hard, make no mistake about it. Coppolella got hit even harder. The penalties were severe, even unprecedented, for this type of violation.
They were strong enough to catch the attention of everyone in baseball. The hope is they're strong enough to convince everyone that serious cheating on the international market isn't worth the risk.
    
Danny Knobler covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report.
Follow Danny on Twitter and talk baseball.



Major League Baseball, the MLB Players Association and Nippon Professional Baseball reportedly reached a tentative agreement Tuesday on a new posting system that will allow two-way Japanese star Shohei Ohtani to play stateside in 2018.
According to MLB Network's Jon Morosi, previous posting rules—which dictate MLB teams can pay NPB clubs a maximum fee of $20 million—will continue to apply this offseason before a new arrangement kicks in after the 2018 campaign.
The New York Post's Joel Sherman broke down the details of the new posting terms:
1/just to clarify my confusing tweet from earlier:  Beginning next offseason if Japanse player signs a major league contract, a Japanese team will receive 20 percent of the total of the contract plus all earned bonuses, buyouts on unexercised options and full amount of option yrs
2/ 20 pct on guarantees up to $25M,  17.5 pct of deals between $25M-$50M, 15 pct for any pact over $50M.
Sherman added the agreement must be ratified by MLB owners next Friday in order for Ohtani to officially be posted by the Nippon-Ham Fighters.
Assuming the new deal is pushed through, Sherman reported Ohtani will have 21 days to sign once he's posted.
Ken Rosenthal of MLB Network predicted Wednesday that Ohtani will have signed with a team "somewhere by Christmas time."
"He will be signed somewhere by Christmas time." - @Ken_Rosenthal on Shohei Ohtani #MLBNHotStove https://t.co/RyQYr51wnN
But because Ohtani isn't yet 25 years old and is still defined as an international amateur, according to MLB's collective bargaining agreement, he'll be restricted to signing a minor league contract that's accompanied by a signing bonus from his future employer's international bonus pool.
According to the Associated Press, the Texas Rangers can offer Ohtani the maximum of $3.5 million, while the New York Yankees can offer $3.25 million and the Minnesota Twins can dangle $3.24 million.
Only three other clubs—the Pittsburgh Pirates, Miami Marlins and Seattle Mariners—can offer upward of $1 million.
As things stand, the Yankees are reportedly considered the front-runners to land the 23-year-old.
"The Yankees are the favorite, there's no other way to look at it," a National League executive told FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman.
Hideki Matsui, who came over to the Yankees from Japan in December 2002, told MLB.com's Deesha Thosar through a translator Saturday he would be happy to help the team in its recruitment of Ohtani if asked.
"If that's something he wants to do and the team wants it, then why not?" he said. "If he's allowed to come here and the Yankees are interested, then I expect to be involved in that process as maybe trying to convince him or recruit him to the Yankees."



Former Atlanta Braves general manager John Coppolella has been banned for life by Major League Baseball in a punishment that stems from multiple violations in the international market. 
MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred issued a statement Tuesday announcing Coppolella's ban, via MLB.com's Mark Feinsand:
Here's MLB's complete statement regarding the Braves' violations: https://t.co/Q6Swqg2tQ1
In addition to Coppolella's lifetime ban, former Braves special assistant Gordon Blakeley was suspended one year. 
The Braves organization responded to MLB's decision, “…the Braves cooperated fully throughout this investigation and we understand and accept the decision regarding the penalties that have been handed down.”
Manfred also announced 13 players the Braves signed illegally during the 2015-17 international free-agent period have been released from their contracts, making them eligible to sign with any team. The Braves are prohibited from signing any international players for more than $10,000 during the 2019-20 window, and their international signing bonus pool in 2020-21 will be cut by 50 percent. 
As Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports noted, Manfred's sanctions against the Braves are "the sort of penalty that will make teams think long and hard about cheating."
Coppolella resigned as Atlanta's general manager on October 2 following an MLB investigation into the team's international signing methods. The 38-year-old took over the position in October 2015 after previously serving as the Braves' director of baseball operations and assistant general manager. 



New York Yankees slugger Aaron Judge underwent arthroscopic surgery on his left shoulder Monday that included "loose-body removal and cartilage cleanup," the team announced Tuesday.
He is expected to recover in time for spring training.
Judge, 25, put together a brilliant rookie season, bashing an American League-best 52 homers with 114 RBI and a .284 batting average. He earned All-Star honors along the way and won Rookie of the Year and Silver Slugger awards after the season.
He was so good that on May 1, then-New York manager Joe Girardi compared him to Yankees great Derek Jeter, per Andrew Marchand of ESPN.com:
"He is a little bit like Derek for me. He has a smile all the time. He loves to play the game. You always think he is going to do the right thing on the field and off the field. He has a presence about him. He plays the game to win all the time, and that is the most important thing. It is not about what you did that day."
"I understand that is a big comparison, but I remember Derek when he was young. He grew into that leadership role, but that was Derek. Derek loved to have fun, loved to laugh and loved to play the game."
That attitude, paired with his production, made him an incredibly important player for the Yankees and helped fuel the team's run to the American League Championship Series. He became a staple in the middle of the order, joining Starlin Castro, Brett Gardner, Matt Holliday, Didi Gregorius and Gary Sanchez to form a dangerous lineup.
With Judge, the Yankees are likely a perennial postseason fixture. Without him, it's harder to imagine them as a consistent contender.



The Atlanta Braves will be releasing a dozen minor leaguers and losing their third-round draft pick in 2018 as a result of an MLB investigation into their prospect-signing practices.     
Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan shared the full punishment levied against Atlanta:
BREAKING: Star prospect Kevin Maitan is one of 12 Atlanta Braves minor leaguers expected to be declared a free agent after league investigation, sources tell Yahoo Sports. In addition, Braves will suffer significant restrictions in 2019-20 and 2020-21 international FA classes.
Other penalties: The Braves will not be allowed to sign 14-year-old shortstop Robert Puason, the top player in the class of 2019, with whom they had illegally struck a deal. Atlanta also will lose a third-round draft pick in 2018 for offering inducements to a drafted player.
Additionally, the league has banned former general manager John Coppolella for life and suspended former head of international scouting Gordon Blakeley for one year, per Joel Sherman of the New York Post. 
Shortstop Kevin Maitan is the most notable of the 12 minor leaguers set to become free agents. MLB.com ranked the 17-year-old the No. 38 prospect in baseball following the 2017 season.
Passan reported in October that Maitan's signing was part of MLB's investigation and that the league had been looking into allegations of "[player] bundling in Latin American, under-the-table benefits given to at least one draft pick and predraft deals struck months in advance."
The Braves signed Maitan in July 2016 and gave him a $4.25 million bonus. In 42 Rookie League games this past year, he batted .241 with two home runs and 18 RBI.
The Atlanta Journal-Constitution's David O'Brien noted how Maitan's signing was part of a significant investment the Braves made in the international market:
I was told by someone who would know that #Braves actually spent nearly $17M on their 2016 international free agent class (Maitan, et al) in signing bonuses, overage fees, etc., not the $12-13M widely reported. They could lose some, and perhaps most, of those guys to MLB hammer.
MLB's investigation already resulted in John Hart leaving his role as a senior adviser. Hardball Talk's Craig Calcaterra wondered if the franchise will clean house in the front office:
If the penalties are this severe, absolutely no one with the Braves should keep their job. Including Terry McGuirk.
Braves fired two employees who were active in this and cut loose another in Hart who had some high level oversight. I find it hard to believe that this was a two-man scheme with an old guy asleep at the switch above them.
Losing 12 prospects would hurt any franchise, but the impact hits the Braves especially hard because they're in the middle of a long-term rebuild. Coppolella and Hart traded away a number of key players in order to start over in 2015, and as a result, they assembled one of the best minor league organizations in MLB.
Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter ranked the Braves' farm system as the No. 1 in baseball at the end of the year. Among the 12 players set to become free agents, Maitan was the only one whom Reuter listed in Atlanta's 10-best prospects.
Taking that into account, the Braves still boast a lot of talent in the minors. Nontheless, the effects of MLB's punishment will unquestionably hinder the team's rebuilding plans going forward.



The San Francisco Giants are reportedly leading the pack in trade discussions with the Miami Marlins for 2017 National League MVP Giancarlo Stanton. 
That's according to MLB.com's Mark Feinsand, who reports the St. Louis Cardinals are still a factor in the talks. 
Craig Mish of SiriusXM Radio reported Monday that the Giants and Marlins discussed one trade proposal that would send Stanton and second baseman Dee Gordon to San Francisco for second baseman Joe Panik, minor league pitcher Tyler Beede and minor league outfielder Chris Shaw.
Shaw and Beede are San Francisco's second- and third-ranked prospects, respectively, per MLB.com. Both players finished last season in Triple-A. 
MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported Sunday that the Cardinals made a formal offer for Stanton, though he didn't include details. 
Stanton's contract includes a full no-trade clause, giving him the ability to veto a potential deal to any team. He's signed through 2027 with a club option for 2028 and is owed $295 million over the next 10 years, per Spotrac. 
Just 28 years old, Stanton won his first NL MVP award in 2017 after hitting .281/.376/.631 with 59 home runs and 132 RBI. 



Joe Morgan, vice chairman of the National Baseball Hall of Fame, has sent a letter to members of the Baseball Writers' Association of America, urging voters not to support steroid users.
In the letter, courtesy of Eric Fisher of the Sports Business Journal, Morgan told members of the BBWAA that "steroid users don't belong" in the Hall of Fame and "they shouldn't be accepted" for taking an illegal substance:
HOFer &amp; @baseballhall vice chair Joe Morgan sends letter to BBWAA voters w plea to not support steroid users. https://t.co/XcF0LF4bfV
Morgan did acknowledge "the tricky issue" of players who were named in the Mitchell Report as being connected to steroids who have denied any wrongdoing, saying he has faith in the judgement of voters and who they vote for is their decision.
Hall of Fame pitcher Goose Gossage told the Associated Press in 2010 that any player who used steroids or performance-enhancing drugs should be banned from entry to the Hall of Fame.
Morgan was elected into Cooperstown in 1990 after his 22-year career. He played for five teams, was a 10-time All-Star, won five Gold Glove Awards at second base, two NL MVPs and two World Series titles with the Cincinnati Reds. 
The 74-year-old Morgan has served on the National Baseball Hall of Fame board of directors since 1994. 



Teams in need of pitching help are in luck, as the 2018 MLB free-agent class features numerous top-end starters and All-Star relievers.
A former Cy Young Award winner highlights the recent free-agency rumors, while two quality arms have also been in the news. Unsurprisingly, they are being linked to contending teams looking to bolster their pitching staffs in an attempt to chase a World Series title next season.
Take a look at the latest buzz in MLB circles and predictions for where some of the biggest free agents will land.
       
Brewers Looking for a Splash?
The Milwaukee Brewers became one of the biggest surprises in baseball last season, going 86-76 and coming up one game short of the second wild-card spot in the National League. Now, it appears evident the team is looking to move up into the next tier of the NL.
Per Jon Morosi of MLB Network, Milwaukee is making a play for Jake Arrieta:
Source: #Brewers showing interest in free agent Jake Arrieta. With Jimmy Nelson expected to miss portion of 2018 after shoulder surgery, team is looking for top-of-the-rotation upgrades. @MLB @MLBNetwork
Pitching was not an issue for the Brewers last season, as they ranked fifth in the NL with a 4.00 ERA. This was even more true for their starting pitchers, whose 398 earned runs were the fourth-fewest allowed in the NL.
Jimmy Nelson, who impressed with a 12-6 record and 3.49 ERA in 29 starts last season, will miss the early part of next season as Morosi noted, but there are still quality arms to pick up the slack. Zach Davies went 17-9 last season with a 3.90 ERA, while Chase Anderson was 12-4 with a 2.74 ERA.
Milwaukee lacked depth behind this Big Three, but the addition of Arrieta would give the Brewers one of the NL's best rotations. However, it must come at the right price.
Arrieta is 31 years old and has shown signs of slowing down the past two seasons. After posting fantastic campaigns in 2014 (10-5, 2.53 ERA) and 2015 (Cy Young Award, 22-6, 1.77 ERA), Arrieta is a combined 32-18 with a 3.30 ERA in the last two seasons. His ERA has risen each of the past two years, yet he is still due for a raise from the $15.6 million he collected this past year.
Joe Zenzola of 105.7 FM in Milwaukee sees going after Arrieta as too great of a financial risk for the Brewers, which the numbers seem to indicate is a valid concern:
Some of you will not agree with this...and that's fine...

2018 should not be the year the #Brewers go for it. Give me another year of what I just saw before I can fully believe in them. Don't overpay for guys like Lynn or Arrieta. Be smart about this, Stearns...
Guys like Johnny Cueto, Cole Hamels, Rick Porcello and Jordan Zimmermann each make over $20 million annually, which looks to be the class Arrieta would fall into. It does not make sense for Milwaukee, considering Arrieta's age, to give out more than a three-year deal for this kind of money. Yet, do not be surprised if it overpays.
The fact that the Brewers are the first team to be linked to Arrieta means they are probably very interested. Free agency typically entails poor financial decisions, but Arrieta would help greatly in getting Milwaukee to the next level. Still, Milwaukee's offensive issues could offset this addition, since the unit ranked 10th in the NL in runs scored last season.
So, is Arrieta's contract worth this risk? The smart play is probably no, but the indications right now seem to be that Milwaukee is willing to gamble to improve the rotation, so expect the Brewers to be major players here.
       
Finalists Emerge for Cobb
Heading into last season, it appeared Alex Cobb had dug himself a deep hole for his contract year given his porous 2016. However, the right-hander bounced back to make himself one of the top free-agent arms on the market.
Cobb was a solid 12-10 with a 3.66 ERA for a bad Tampa Bay Rays team, a great improvement from his disastrous 8.59 ERA he accumulated in just five starts the previous year. The three years prior, Cobb posted at least 10 wins per season with a 3.19 ERA. Naturally, teams are vying hard for his services.
According to Peter Gammons, the "industry consensus" is that the Chicago Cubs and New York Yankees are the two major contenders for Cobb. Considering these two teams are built to contend for a World Series title for the next five years at least, it would make sense that Cobb would have his sights set on joining them. After all, winning is his No. 1 concern, as he relayed to MLB Network Radio:
Alex Cobb will value winning over money in free agency

#Rays https://t.co/xL3bwiFaNA
Cobb is a great option as a third or fourth starter, and he should not come at too pricey of a raise from the $4.2 million he earned last season. It comes down to who of the Cubs and Yankees provide the better fit.
Chicago offers a more prominent role with Arrieta gone and Jon Lester coming off a down year of a 4.33 ERA. Cobb would likely be the second or third starter behind Kyle Hendricks or Lester, but the Cubs have more questions than the Yankees. First, the team lacks much support in the bullpen, especially with Wade Davis likely gone, per 670 The Score's Julie DiCaro. The mediocre depth in the rotation could also be an issue to drive down the Cubs' win total next season.
As for the Yankees, they are trending the greatest of arguably any team in baseball. New York will only improve with top prospects Chance Adams and Gleybar Torres joining an already stacked young core, and the team's rotation is dynamite with a top three of Sonny Gray, Luis Severino and Masahiro Tanaka. 
Should Cobb join New York, he would be the fourth starter with Jordan Montgomery claiming the No. 5 spot. Bringing in Cobb could mean the team does not bring back CC Sabathia, who was a leader in the clubhouse while also notching a fantastic 14-5 record last season.
The Yankees would probably put Cobb in the best position to succeed, but the Cubs have a greater need for him and would likely be more willing to jack up their offer. 
The Cubs were the first of the two teams to emerge as a contender, as DiCaro's note on Cobb came out several days before Gammons pinned the Yankees as players. Given how desperate Chicago is to add starting pitching, expect that to be Cobb's destination.
       
Top Reliever Drawing Interest
After notching 29 saves last season while splitting time between the Minnesota Twins and the Washington Nationals, Brandon Kintzler set himself up to be one of the relief options on the free-agent market. According to the latest buzz, teams are lining up for the 33-year-old.
Per Morosi, the Colorado Rockies and the St. Louis Cardinals are two teams looking for a closer that are eyeing Kintzler. The Cardinals were one of the league's top relief units a year ago, ranking seventh in MLB with a 3.81 ERA, but they only converted on 43 of 60 save opportunities. The Rockies meanwhile could use any help they can get, as their 4.40 ERA was the 10th-worst in baseball.
The Twins are also looking to bring back Kintzler, as Mike Berardino of the Pioneer Press reported almost two weeks ago:
#mntwins are among a handful of teams to express early interest in FA reliever Brandon Kintzler, who recorded 45 saves for them in 2016-17. #Nationals would like to retain him as well. Stood out in WSN clubhouse and on the mound after being traded.
Minnesota would be an intriguing option since Kintzler had the most success of his career there. In 99.2 innings with the Twins over two years, Kintzler allowed just 33 runs and was named an All-Star last season.
In terms of winning now, the Cardinals would probably be Kintzler's ideal situation. The team has the payroll and pieces in place to retool for a run in 2018 after a down 2017, and being a pitcher in St. Louis is much more desirable than Colorado, where routine fly balls turn into homers.
Look for Minnesota and St. Louis to be Kintzler's two finalists, with the Cardinals having more finances to offer.
        
Statistics are courtesy of MLB.com. Contract information is courtesy of Spotrac. 



A potential Giancarlo Stanton trade has been the big story of the MLB offseason to this point and for good reason. It's not every day the reigning MVP finds himself on the trade block.
Who else might be on the move this offseason?
Starting pitchers Chris Archer, Gerrit Cole, Julio Teheran, Michael Fulmer and Jake Odorizzi are no strangers to trade rumors and the same goes for relievers Zach Britton, Alex Colome and Brad Hand.
On the position-player side of things, no one should be surprised when guys such as Josh Donaldson, Jose Abreu, Andrew McCutchen, Ian Kinsler, Billy Hamilton, Cesar Hernandez and Nick Markakis pop up in trade rumors.
We're going to dig a bit deeper, though.
Ahead is a look at seven less obvious names who could be available in this winter's inevitable trade frenzy.

2017 Stats: 72 G, 16 SV, 10 HLD, 3.93 ERA, 1.39 WHIP, 8.8 K/9, 1.3 WAR
Contract Status: Arbitration-eligible through 2020
Salary: $2.3 million (projected)
     
Overview
The A's picked up a pair of quality prospects in Jesus Luzardo (No. 6) and Sheldon Neuse (No. 14) in the deal that sent relievers Sean Doolittle and Ryan Madson to the Washington Nationals.
They also added Blake Treinen, an established MLB reliever.
The 29-year-old posted a 2.28 ERA with 22 holds in 73 appearances during the 2016 season, and he broke camp with the closer's job this past spring. However, he quickly fell out of favor with a 5.73 ERA over 37 appearances.
A change of scenery jump-started his season, and he closed out the year with a 2.13 ERA and 9.9 K/9 while converting 13 of 16 save chances.
Extreme groundball tendencies—a 58.4 percent rate in 2017 and 61.4 percent for his career—make him an attractive trade target and his three remaining years of team control adds to his value.
Treinen may be the leading candidate to close games for Oakland in 2018, but don't be surprised if he's pitching elsewhere when the season begins.

2017 Stats: 83 OPS+, 155 H, 47 XBH (12 HR), 61 RBI, 71 R, 1.3 WAR
Contract Status: Arbitration-eligible through 2018
Salary: $7.4 million (projected)
        
Overview
It would make sense for the Phillies to trade a middle infielder this offseason with prospects Scott Kingery and J.P. Crawford both knocking on the door.
Second baseman Cesar Hernandez was a "hot name" at the winter meetings last year, and he's already been linked to the Los Angeles Angels this offseason.
However, with team control through the 2020 season and after hitting .294/.372/.406 while posting a 6.4 WAR the past two seasons, he might now be viewed more as a long-term piece than a trade chip.
That could put shortstop Freddy Galvis on the block.
The 28-year-old has his shortcomings—most notably a career .287 on-base percentage—but he still has value as a slick-fielding middle infielder with 20-homer pop.
Galvis has been a Gold Glove finalist at shortstop each of the past two seasons, and FanGraphs places him behind only Andrelton Simmons, Brandon Crawford and Francisco Lindor in terms of overall defensive value at the position during that span.
He has experience playing both middle infield spots, and while his $7.4 million projected salary isn't exactly a bargain, a contender could do a lot worse filling a super-utility role.

2017 Stats: 28 GS, 14-7, 3.82 ERA, 1.27 WHIP, 113 K, 169.2 IP, 2.1 WAR
Contract Status: Pre-arbitration, team control through 2021
Salary: $545,000 (projected)
           
Overview
The Marlins desperately need to improve a rotation that ranked 26th in starters' ERA (5.12), and they'll look to do it with low-cost arms as they try to trim the payroll to $90 million.
So why in the world would they trade a pre-arbitration starter such as Jose Urena who is coming off a breakout season?
Simply put, there's not a bigger regression candidate for the 2018 season.
Out of options and on the roster bubble going into spring training, Urena quickly pitched his way into the rotation and wound up winning 14 games while posting a 3.82 ERA that ranked 13th in the NL.
However, his peripheral numbers paint a less rosy picture.
His FIP—a measure of the factors a pitcher controls and a good predictor of future ERA—was 5.20 and that ranked 56th among the 58 qualified starting pitchers.
At the same time, his .249 batting average on balls in play was the fifth lowest among that same group. The league average usually hovers around .300, so it's fair to say he was the beneficiary of some good luck.
In a thin market for starters, if another team is willing to pay for his breakout numbers, the Marlins would be foolish not to pull the trigger.

2017 Stats: 130 OPS+, 140 H, 72 XBH (43 HR), 110 RBI, 91 R, 2.5 WAR
Contract Status: Arbitration-eligible through 2019
Salary: $11.1 million (projected)
         
Overview
Here's a list of all the players who have hit more home runs than the 85 launched by Khris Davis over the past two seasons:
That's it.
The 29-year-old has become one of the game's elite power threats since being traded from Milwaukee to Oakland, and he's done it without much in the way of lineup support.
So why isn't he a household name?
Well, he strikes out a ton (195 Ks), he's not much of an on-base threat (.336 OBP), and he's a borderline liability defensively (-13 DRS, -14.7 UZR/150), so that takes a bite out of his overall value.
Still, that power is for real and it's worth noting he did raise his walk rate from 6.9 to 11.2 percent last season, so he's still making adjustments.
With his salary projected to spike from $5 million to $11.1 million in his second year of arbitration, the thrifty A's could be looking to deal as they dive head first into a full rebuild.
He would be a nice consolation prize for anyone who misses out on trading for Stanton or signing J.D. Martinez.

2017 Stats: 73 G, 21 SV, 14 HLD, 1.67 ERA, 0.89 WHIP, 10.5 K/9, 2.6 WAR
Contract Status: Arbitration-eligible through 2021
Salary: $3.1 million (projected)
     
Overview
Any way you slice it, Felipe Rivero was one of the most dominant relievers in the game in 2017.
The 26-year-old began the season in a setup role where he racked up 14 holds, before moving to the closer's role in June where he converted 21 of 23 save chances.
Opposing hitters batted a feeble .171 against him on the year, and lefties were particularly helpless with just six singles and one double in 93 plate appearances.
Armed with a high-octane fastball (98.9 mph), a terrific changeup (88.8 mph, .163 BAA) and a wipeout slider (.033 BAA, .000 ISO), he's a matchup nightmare from both sides of the plate.
The Pirates picked up Rivero in the trade that sent Mark Melancon to the Washington Nationals, essentially replacing a free-agent-to-be closer with an even more dominant late-inning arm who has team control through 2021.
If they don't think they can legitimately contend in 2018, selling high and flipping him again is something the front office has to consider.
It will take a sizeable prospect package to even get the Pirates to pick up the phone—think something along the lines of what the Red Sox gave up to acquire Craig Kimbrel—but he's worth it.
He might be the most dominant left-handed reliever this side of Andrew Miller.

2017 Stats: 25 GS, 10-11, 3.53 ERA, 1.31 WHIP, 142 K, 145.1 IP, 3.6 WAR
Contract Status: Signed through 2018
Salary: $13 million
     
Overview
A deadline trade to the Pittsburgh Pirates in 2015 has proved to be a turning point in J.A. Happ's career.
Sporting a 4.64 ERA at the time of the deal, Happ went 7-2 with a 1.85 ERA in 11 starts with the Pirates after pitching coach Ray Searage tweaked his delivery.
He was able to parlay that into a three-year, $36 million deal from the Toronto Blue Jays, and he's been worth every penny over the first two seasons.
The left-hander went 20-4 with a 3.18 ERA to finish sixth in Cy Young voting in 2015 and was rock solid once again this past season, despite missing a month with elbow inflammation.
The Blue Jays have not given any indication they plan to be sellers this offseason, otherwise third baseman Josh Donaldson would already be on the trade block as he gets set to enter his final year of team control.
However, they were willing to listen to offers for Happ this past summer, and they would be wise to keep an open mind again this offseason.
For teams looking to add a quality second-tier arm but not keen on offering up a five-year deal to Alex Cobb or Lance Lynn, he could be the perfect trade target.

2017 Stats: 105 OPS+, 169 H, 57 XBH (19 HR), 78 RBI, 80 R, 34 SB, 3.9 WAR
Contract Status: Pre-arbitration, team control through 2022
Salary: $545,000 (projected)
         
Overview
The road to MLB success was a long and winding one for Whit Merrifield. If you're not familiar with his story, Rustin Dodd of the Kansas City Star did a feature on him at the end of the season that's worth a read.
Long story short, he finally got his chance as a 27-year-old rookie in 2016 and followed that up with a legitimate breakout performance.
Along with an AL-leading 34 stolen bases, he also showed previously unseen power with 19 home runs. Prior to that, he had never hit more than nine home runs in a season in the minors and had a grand total of 46 long balls in 3,125 plate appearances.
Aside from the offensive outburst, he also settled in nicely at second base (5 DRS) after filling more of a utility role as a rookie.
On the surface, a cost-controlled player fresh off a breakout season seems like exactly the type of player the Royals should be holding on to.
However, it's important to remember he turns 29 in January.
With one of the thinnest farm systems in baseball, it's not going to just be a quick retool for the Royals. It's going to be a full-scale rebuild that could take several seasons.
Is Merrifield going to be a part of the next contending Royals team?
If the answer is no, the front office has to consider selling high and moving him now to help maximize his value and restock the farm system.
          
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Brooks Baseball, unless otherwise noted.



The Brooklyn Dodgers uniform that Jackie Robinson reportedly brought home with him after his rookie season in 1947 sold for a record (post-World War II era) $2.05 million at auction, according to the Associated Press.
Per that report, "The jersey, part of a Heroes of Sports offering by Heritage Auctions, was accompanied by a letter from Robinson's widow, Rachel, saying it is the one brought home by the Hall of Famer at the end of the 1947 season, when he became the first black player in the majors and earned Rookie of the Year honors."
Robinson hit .297 in his historic rookie year with 12 home runs, 48 RBI, 125 runs and 29 stolen bases, all while breaking MLB's color barrier. He finished his career as a six-time All-Star, the 1949 MVP and a 1955 champion, ultimately being enshrined in baseball's Hall of Fame.
He played for 10 seasons, all with the Dodgers.
The price of his rookie uniform was the most in the post-World War II era, surpassing the $573,600 that Sandy Koufax's 1955 Dodgers rookie jersey garnered at auction, according to the AP. The all-time record for a sports memorabilia sale remains the $4,415,658 that Babe Ruth's 1920 New York Yankees uniform sold for in 2012, however.
In late October, Robinson's game-worn Dodgers cap from the "1947-48 period" sold at auction for $590,994, per Dean Balsamini of the New York Post, setting a new record for memorabilia hats.
"It was a special hat for him. It has a helmet liner to protect him from beanings from racist players who would throw the ball at his head," Lelands chairman Josh Evans told David K. Li of the New York Post. "This is ancient, early baseball technology."



There may be nearly a whole year in between now and then, but it's a given that Manny Machado will be up for a gigantic payday if and when he hits free agency next winter.
It could be even more of a given if he's able to market himself as a shortstop.
This is assuming that Machado, who's presently known as a three-time All-Star and two-time Gold Glove winner at third base, doesn't forgo the 2018-19 free-agent market by signing a contract extension with the Baltimore Orioles. It's also assuming that the Orioles make good on an intriguing idea.
As reported by Peter Gammons at Gammons Daily: "There is an ongoing debate in the Orioles organization whether or not Manny Machado should move over to shortstop in 2018, before he becomes a free agent next November."
Orioles shortstops produced a .682 OPS and minus-five defensive runs saved in 2017. While not the reason, it's one of the reasons the club dropped to 75 wins from 89 wins in 2016.
Machado, 25, was originally developed as a shortstop and has spoken about wanting to return even after all his success at the hot corner.
"I'm looking forward to going back to short, if I do go back," he said last spring, per Anthony Castrovince of MLB.com. "I hope, I hope."
Machado got a chance to show what he can do as a regular shortstop during the summer of 2016. Playing in place of an injured J.J. Hardy, he logged 380 innings at short and tallied three defensive runs saved.
The catch is that 380 innings is too small a sample size to point to as an obvious indicator that Machado can be an above-average defensive shortstop over a full season. And between his size (6'3", 183 pounds) and, per Statcast, his average speed, there are reasons to doubt he would be.
There is little doubt, though, that Machado has the arm and the hands for shortstop. And while shortstops his size are rare, Corey Seager, Carlos Correa and Didi Gregorius are among those who held down steady jobs at the position despite being even bigger. 
Thus, the circle comes back around: The Orioles are on to something.
For them, moving Machado from third to short could mean a return to the postseason after 2017 ended with them in the AL East cellar for the first time since 2011. For Machado himself, it could mean another pretty feather in a cap that's already worth a pretty penny.

In September, Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports floated Giancarlo Stanton's 13-year, $325 million deal with the Miami Marlins as fair precedent for a Machado extension. Shift the conversation to what he might command in free agency, however, and the magic number becomes $400 million.
Said magic number is commonly linked to both Machado and fellow free-agent-to-be 20-something Bryce Harper. Since Alex Rodriguez's 10-year, $275 million deal from 2007 is the high-water mark for free-agent contracts, it may seem like a pie in the sky. But Major League Baseball is past due for a bigger and better 10-year megadeal. 
"A re-setting of the market is coming with Harper and Machado, especially given their ages at free agency," one agent told Tom Verducci of Sports Illustrated this year. "So it’s safe to assume the value of free agent years is going to go up, and it’s not crazy to think that number is going to start with a four."
Back in January, I made the case that Machado was the better choice than Harper for MLB's first $400 million contract. Harper had the edge in upside, but Machado had him beat in consistency and durability.
If any part of that equation seemed to change in 2017, it's the notion that Machado is more consistent of the two. Although he topped 30 home runs for a third straight season, his OPS and wins above replacement (Baseball Reference version) took a tumble:
But even after a down season, Machado still projects as a hugely valuable player for the long run.
When I ran him through the same valuation method that I used on the winter's top free agents, his baseline 10-year (spanning 2019 to 2028) value came out to $280 million. When I did the reasonable thing of pushing the start of his decline back to his age-30 season in 2023, his 10-year value skyrocketed to $480 million.  
Even that may be light, as it doesn't account for the possibility that Machado's 2017 wasn't a "down" season.
He finished strongly with an .826 OPS and 15 home runs in the second half after being plagued by an extraordinary amount of bad luck in the first half. Altogether, his expected production—i.e. his xwOBA, based on the quality of his contact—fell in between that of his 2015 and 2016 seasons.
He thus doesn't have to change a thing to make excellent offense a featured part of his 2018 contract push. If he happens to do so while also holding it down at short, he'll have rebranded himself from a slugging third baseman to a slugging shortstop.
The latter are rarer creatures than the former. Machado was one of seven third basemen to top 30 home runs in 2017. Francisco Lindor is the only shortstop who did it.
Throw in the fact that shortstop is inherently more valuable than third base. Then throw in the fact that Machado could remind prospective suitors that he can always go back to third base after aging off shortstop. Suddenly, $400 million doesn't sound so outlandish for his free-agent payday. If anything, it sounds a little light.
For now, it's only a daydream based on a rainy-day idea plucked from a slow-news-day report. But later, it could be the real deal.
           
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Baseball Savant. 




The National Transportation Safety Board released a preliminary report Monday into the plane crash that killed eight-time MLB All-Star Roy Halladay.
According to the NTSB, Halladay's plan came to within 75 feet of residential homes and flew about 11 feet above the Gulf of Mexico before crashing into the Gulf on the western coast of Florida, per the Tampa Bay Times' Josh Solomon.
At one point during the flight, Halladay flew up to 1,909 feet above sea level. He then descended to 600 feet over a period of 10 miles.
Halladay also made a 360-degree turn, which immediately preceded him coming to within close proximity of homes in New Port Richey, Florida.
The NTSB didn't release a cause of Halladay's crash but used information from the plane's data recorder to get an idea of its flight path prior to Halladay's death. An eyewitness also told an NTSB investigator he saw the plane reach an altitude of 300 to 500 feet before flying downward at a 45-degree angle.
NTSB investigator Noreen Price described the plane as making a "high-energy impact" as it hit the water, the Associated Press' Andrew Dalton and Terry Spencer (via the Boston Globe) reported Nov. 8.
The lead engineer of Halladay's plane, the Icon A5, died while flying the aircraft in May. Price declined to make any connection between the two accidents but said the NTSB will look for any possible overlapping issues.
"So as we move forward in the factual finding phase, if we see anything that we believe might connect it to previous accidents, we will certainly look at that," Price said. "And if we see anything that we think is unsafe, we will make recommendation immediately."
According to Solomon, Halladay had flown 700-plus total hours, with 50 coming in the Icon A5 model.
Solomon wrote the NTSB's investigation could take an entire year before the agency makes its final report.



Major League Baseball reportedly wants to speed up the pace of play next year with the use of a 20-second pitch clock.  
Buster Olney of ESPN.com reported the news Monday, noting the 20-second clock (with no runners on base) was used in the minor leagues during the last three seasons. Olney pointed out MLB can implement the rule for the 2018 campaign even without agreement from the Players Association but would rather do so with negotiation so "both sides will be committed moving forward."
This move would immediately force pitchers to adjust considering only five pitchers—among those who threw at least 50 innings—averaged fewer than 20 seconds in between pitches in 2017, per FanGraphs.
Olney noted improving pace of play is a concern for commissioner Rob Manfred, especially with the average game time above three hours last year.
The pitch clock is not a new idea, though. Bob Nightengale of USA Today said in July the pitch clock was coming, which didn't sit well with some pitchers.
"You know it's going to happen, no doubt about it," Pat Neshek, then of the Philadelphia Phillies, told Nightengale. "Most of us don't like it. But he's going to do what he wants to do."
"It seems pretty drastic to me," Cleveland Indians All-Star reliever Andrew Miller said, per Nightengale. "I'm not for the pitch clock. I'm very against it. I wish we were listened to a little bit more. Having the downtime in games is a bigger issue for me."
Fans and players alike saw MLB implement a rule last season which allowed teams to intentionally walk batters without throwing an actual pitch with the idea of increasing pace of play as the impetus. It appears as if one of the primary 2018 rule changes will impact every pitch instead of only the ones previously thrown on intentional passes.



The Major League Baseball Players Association announced on Monday "it has agreed to a 24-hour extension for a new posting agreement to be reached between Major League Baseball and Nippon Professional Baseball. The deadline has been extended to 8 p.m. ET on Tuesday, November 21."
The move is notable because Japanese star Shohei Ohtani remains unsigned. 
Bill Baer of NBC Sports noted the MLBPA was challenging the Nippon Professional Baseball posting system. Ohtani would receive a signing bonus between $300,000 and $3.53 million if he came to MLB this offseason, while the Nippon Ham Fighters (his team) would see $20 million for posting him.
This news comes after Jon Morosi of MLB.com reported NPB officials were working to either come to a new posting agreement or extend the deadline before 8 p.m. ET Monday.
R.J. Anderson of CBS Sports suggested "this would seem like a good sign" when discussing the agreement to extend the deadline. He figured such a move wouldn't be done if the sides weren't at least close enough to consider additional time worthwhile.
Ohtani is a two-way player who has power at the plate and impressive stuff as a pitcher. Based on his talent and potential alone, he would likely land a massive contract on the open market with MLB teams bidding against each other, but this is a unique case since he is only 23 years old.
Mike Oz of Yahoo Sports explained players who are not over the age of 25 are subject to the international bonus pool money restrictions under the current collective bargaining agreement.
"He wants to prove himself at 23, so teams have to treat him the same way they would a 16-year-old from the Dominican Republic," Oz wrote. "He'll get a signing bonus and the same standard contract any MLB draft pick or international free agent would."
While his immediate future is still hanging in the balance as the MLBPA challenges the posting system, Ohtani figures to immediately bolster the pennant chances of whichever team ultimately signs him—assuming he eventually lands in MLB.
Dayn Perry of CBS Sports noted he slashed .286/.358/.500 during the last five seasons and features "a devastating slider" and "nasty splitter" to go with a fastball that reaches 100 mph as a pitcher.



The Philadelphia Phillies reportedly designated pitcher Mark Appel for assignment on Monday.
Matt Gelb of the Philadelphia Inquirer reported the news, which was notable because Appel was the No. 1 overall selection in the 2013 draft. The Houston Astros made that pick, and Appel has yet to establish himself at the major league level, even after Philadelphia traded for him in 2015.  
Appel is just 26 years old and figures to still have plenty of baseball ahead of him. But at this point, he is a clear case of a failure to live up to elevated expectations. The Stanford product is yet to appear in a Major League game, which starkly contrasts some of those players selected in the same draft as him.
Zachary D. Rymer of Bleacher Report shared the list, which reads as a who's who of some of the best young talent in the game:
Mark Appel went No. 1 in 2013. Also in that first round: Kris Bryant (2), Jon Gray (3), Clint Frazier (5), Hunter Renfroe (13), Tim Anderson (17) and, just about at the very end, Aaron Judge (32).
Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com detailed Appel's career, which included a decision to return to Stanford for his senior season after the Pittsburgh Pirates drafted him No. 8 overall in 2012.
It seemed like a sound move at the time, considering he was the No. 1 pick the following year, but he underwent an appendectomy in 2014 and finished with a 9.74 ERA in the high-A California League. He also pitched just 38.1 innings in 2016 thanks to shoulder issues and bone spurs in his right (pitching) elbow.
He tallied a 5.27 ERA in 82 innings in 2017 with the Triple-A Lehigh Valley IronPigs.
Jake Kaplan of the Houston Chronicle noted the Phillies now have seven days to either trade him or place him on outright waivers following Monday’s move.



The Baseball Hall of Fame and Baseball Writers' Association of America announced the 2018 Hall of Fame ballot Monday, and 2017 holdovers like Barry Bonds, Roger Clemens and Manny Ramirez highlighted the list.
Ryan Thibodaux shared the full ballot:
As announced by @baseballhall and @officialBBWAA today, your 2018 National Baseball Hall of Fame Ballot: https://t.co/LM3a5iLH7C
Chipper Jones, Jim Thome, Omar Vizquel, Jamie Moyer and Johan Santana are on the ballot for the first time, per BBWAA.com, joining 14 players from last year's ballot.
If on-field play was the only consideration, Bonds, Clemens (both on the ballot for the sixth year) and Ramirez (second year on the ballot) would have been first-ballot Hall of Famers.
Bonds was a seven-time MVP, 14-time All-Star and eight-time Gold Glover who finished his career with 762 home runs, the most in baseball history. Clemens was a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, 11-time All-Star, two-time World Series champion and the 1986 American League MVP. Ramirez was a 12-time All-Star, two-time champion and the 2004 World Series MVP who finished his career as a .312 hitter with 555 home runs.
But all three players were embroiled in the performance-enhancing drugs controversy, leaving voters to decide whether that should preclude them from earning baseball's highest honor.
Both Clemens (on 54.1 percent of ballots) and Bonds (53.8 percent) earned significant consideration last year—Ramirez was on 23.8 percent of ballots—but they still fell well short of the 75 percent-of-ballots figure they needed for induction. Trevor Hoffman (74.0 percent) and Vladimir Guerrero (71.7 percent) came within five and 15 votes of induction, respectively.
As for the headlining newcomers, Jones was a career .303 hitter with 468 home runs, won the 1999 National League MVP and was an eight-time All-Star. Thome blasted 612 home runs, which ranks eighth all-time, and was a five-time All-Star. Moyer pitched for 25 seasons and won 269 games, while Vizquel offered nearly as much longevity, playing for 24 seasons and winning 11 Gold Gloves as one of the best defensive shortstops of all time. Finally, Santana was a two-time Cy Young Award winner and four-time All-Star.



The Milwaukee Brewers are reportedly interested in signing free-agent starting pitcher Jake Arrieta, according to Jon Morosi of the MLB Network.
Per that report, "With Jimmy Nelson expected to miss a portion of 2018 after shoulder surgery, the team is looking for top-of-the-rotation upgrades."
Arrieta, 31, went 14-10 with a 3.53 ERA, 1.22 WHIP and 163 strikeouts in 30 starts and 168.1 innings. The 2015 NL Cy Young winner and 2016 MLB champion should demand plenty of attention in free agency, and a return to Chicago is certainly a possibility. 
Arrieta's agent, Scott Boras, has already publicly said the Cubs could afford to bring the starting pitcher back if they so choose.
"They have a new TV contract coming up, and they have this amazing group of everyday players who are young and gifted," he noted, per Paul Sullivan of the Chicago Tribune. "They have all these choices. … The amount of money that's rolling in, the revenues annually and in the future, the Cubs can do whatever they choose to do in this free-agent market and the next ones."
He added, "When you have a guy like that out there, I don't know why you would not want him and not want him long term, because he brings a dimension to you that few teams have."
Arrieta will garner interest around the league, of course. As David Haugh of the Chicago Tribune wrote last week, rumors have already linked the starting pitcher to the St. Louis Cardinals, Texas Rangers and Los Angeles Dodgers, among other teams.
The Brewers appear to be one of those teams, and it shouldn't come as a surprise that, following a surprising 86-76 season that saw them nearly earn a wild-card bid, they're looking to take the next step. Adding an ace would appear to be atop their wish list.
As Morosi reported on the MLB Network (h/t The Brewer Nation), "The Brewers have set no limitations on the starting pitchers they are pursuing," adding that "If you are an elite level pitcher, the Brewers are calling on you."
He reiterated that the team was interested in Arrieta, adding that it also had interest in Yu Darvish, Lance Lynn and Alex Cobb. 



The Miami Marlins and San Francisco Giants have reportedly discussed a trade that would send Giancarlo Stanton and Dee Gordon to the Giants in exchange for second baseman Joe Panik, pitching prospect Tyler Beede and outfielder prospect Chris Shaw, according to Craig Mish of SiriusXM.
That followed a report from Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic on Friday stating the Giants made a proposal for Stanton.
Rosenthal added, "The Giants are willing to pick up a sizable amount of Stanton's contract, one source said. Such a deal, however, would exacerbate the team's luxury-tax concerns, likely resulting in the trade of at least one high-priced veteran, perhaps as part of a package going to the Marlins, perhaps to other clubs."
The Giants aren't the only team that reportedly bid on Stanton's services. Jon Morosi of the MLB Network reported the St. Louis Cardinals had made a proposal for Stanton, while Mish added that pitching prospect Sandy Alcantara would be among the young players offered in the trade package.
Additionally, Rosenthal reported that the Boston Red Sox were expected to make a proposal and that "Other, unidentified clubs also have told the Marlins they will submit offers for Stanton, but the process is just beginning."
Finally, Morosi reported that "Some in the industry expect the Los Angeles Dodgers to make a push to acquire Stanton, although it's unclear if they've made a formal offer."
Any offer will be moot, of course, if Stanton isn't willing to waive his no-trade clause to join a team. As Morosi noted, that could leave Stanton with an interesting choice: 
Do I think Stanton would like to play in his home state of California? Sure. But if no California team makes a compelling offer, he may be asked to decide between St. Louis and another year with rebuilding Marlins. I do not know how he would respond.
And any offer will reflect the fact that Stanton still has 10 years and $295 million left on his contract and an opt-out clause after 2020. Most teams are expected to ask the Marlins to absorb some of Stanton's owed money in any deal.
"I know what I want to do. I need to know what you can do," Marlins general manager Michael Hill said at the general manager meetings while describing the approach he's taken in trade talks with other clubs, per Rosenthal. "Until I know where you're at on the contract, the money, all that stuff, I can't engage."



Although the MLB offseason tends to heat up during the annual Winter Meetings, which are scheduled to begin Dec. 10 in Orlando, the rumor mill is already generating a lot of attention as teams attempt to build a roster that can contend with the reigning World Series champion Houston Astros.
Miami Marlins outfielder Giancarlo Stanton is the most notable name on the trade market. The slugger led the league with 59 home runs during the 2017 season and is the type of acquisition who could shift the balance of power within in a division.
Let's check out some of the latest buzz from around MLB and analyze what it could mean for the players and teams involved during what's shape up to become a busy winter.
                
San Francisco Giants Kick Off Stanton Sweepstakes
The Marlins are looking to trim payroll as the new ownership group, led by Bruce Sherman and longtime New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter, try to chart a new course for the organization. Their goal is getting down to around $90 million, per Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald.
Finding a way to move Stanton's 13-year, $325 million contract in exchange for a haul of future assets without taking on too many bad contracts in return would be a massive step in that direction. It wouldn't be a popular move among the team's fanbase, though.
Nevertheless, Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic reported the Giants submitted a formal offer for the outfielder to the Marlins, who are also expecting proposals from the St. Louis Cardinals, Boston Red Sox and some "unidentified clubs" as the process plays out.
San Francisco has the look of an ideal fit. It would allow Stanton to return to his native California and fill a massive power void for a Giants club that finished last in MLB with just 128 homers last season, which was 23 fewer than any other team.
It's also worth noting Stanton does hold a complete no-trade clause that will allow him to veto any deal.
                 
New York Yankees Interested In Jurickson Profar
Profar hasn't lived up to expectations with the Texas Rangers. He's posted a .229/.309/.329 triple-slash line with 12 home runs and five stolen bases in 206 games across four years. That isn't stopping teams from thinking a change of scenery could jumpstart his career, however.
Joel Sherman of the New York Post noted the Yankees are "willing to take on a single player with upside and pedigree" like Profar in order to help clear excess from their 40-man roster. He listed the San Diego Padres and Toronto Blue Jays as other possible landing spots.
The 24-year-old Curacao native brings versatility to the table along with what should be some untapped potential. He's got experience at all four infield positions and left field during his time in Texas. He's probably a good enough athlete to play center and right in a pinch, as well.
Profar would likely take the spot of current reserve infielder Ronald Torreyes if New York did make a deal with the Rangers. That doesn't represent a big enough upgrade for the Yanks to give up any of the top-end prospects in the trade, though.
                     
Alex Colome May Get Moved By Tampa Bay Rays
Colome has established himself as one of the best closers in baseball over the past two years. He posted a microscopic 1.91 ERA with 37 saves and 71 strikeouts in 56.2 innings in 2016. He backed that up with a 3.24 ERA and 47 saves during the 2017 campaign.
Alas, like the aforementioned Marlins, the Rays are looking to trim payroll this offseason. In turn, Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times reported Colome is going to become a "hot topic" in trade talks and projects he's "likely to be dealt" before next season.
What could make him particularly attractive to other clubs is the fact he's under team control through 2020 via arbitration, per Spotrac. So, while his salary will increase due to his recent success, it shouldn't reach the level a top free-agent reliever like Wade Davis or Greg Holland.
The Detroit Tigers (30th in reliever ERA in 2017) and Atlanta Braves (26th) are a pair of teams that could seek help at the back end of their bullpen and also feature ample pitching prospects. But Tampa may wait until after the top free agents sign to help increase the number of interested front offices.



As most households fire up their ovens for Thanksgiving, MLB's hot stove gradually simmers with free agency beckoning.
The full frenzy won't commence until December's winter meetings, but the trade and free-agent windows are nevertheless open for business. While Seattle Mariners general manager Jerry Dipoto sprinted out of the offseason gate, most other teams are still in the preparation stage. 
The rumor mill will heat up as fall progresses. Although not in overdrive just yet, let's examine some early free-agent gossip making the rounds.
      
Mike Moustakas Interested in Angels

After recording an American League-worst .397 team slugging percentage in 2017, the Los Angeles Angels need another potent power bat alongside Mike Trout and Justin Upton, a late-season acquisition who signed a five-year extension.
With Brandon Phillips and Yunel Escobar both free agents, they also must revamp their entire infield around shortstop Andrelton Simmons. That makes Mike Moustakas, a third baseman who belted 38 home runs in 2017, a sensible target.
According to ESPN's Jerry Crasnick, the 29-year-old has interest in leaving the Kansas City Royals for California: 
An #MLB insider who's familiar with Mike Moustakas' thinking said the #Angels are No. 1 on his wish list. GM Billy Eppler could pursue Moose, or he could roll with Luis Valbuena (22 HRS and a .199 batting average) at 3B and focus on adding a second baseman.
His departure is not a formality. People with the Royals told FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman "they may wind up keeping" the third baseman if the market drives them out of the Eric Hosmer sweepstakes. Losing both corner infielders and center fielder Lorenzo Cain is the doomsday scenario they must fight to avoid.
Yet if the Angels represent his first choice, Moustakas should be welcomed with open arms. Their left-handed batters—most notably Kole Calhoun and Luis Valbuena—recorded an MLB-worst .710 OPS against righties. A left-handed infielder with pop satisfies every need, and the franchise has traditionally spent aggressively on the open market.
They can't waste Trout's prime, and Moustakas could power them into the wild-card picture with better health from a young pitching staff. It's a perfect match.
Prediction: Moustakas signs four-year deal with Angels.
          
Orioles Eyeing Alex Cobb and Lance Lynn

After Jake Arrieta, Yu Darvish and potentially Japanese star Shohei Ohtani, Alex Cobb and Lance Lynn headline the crop of mid-tier starting pitchers. As a result, they will be in high demand despite both recently returning from Tommy John surgery.
Cobb rebounded to record a 3.66 ERA over a career-high 179.1 innings for the Tampa Bay Rays, who are unlikely to retain the 30-year-old due to their small budget. While Lynn's 4.82 fielding independent pitching (FIP) presents a major caution flag, his 3.43 ERA will likely still draw interest in a market light on high-end arms.
After posting the worst ERA (5.70) of any starting rotation, expect the Baltimore Orioles to surface as suitors for any competent pitcher. According to MLB Network's Jon Morosi, they're naturally interested in Cobb and Lynn:
Source: #Orioles interested in Lance Lynn, in addition to Alex Cobb, among free-agent starting pitchers. Baltimore believed to have slight preference for Cobb, based in part on AL East experience. @MLB @MLBNetwork
In Cobb's case, they will face high-profile competition. Per ESPN.com's Jesse Rogers, the Chicago Cubs "reached out to Cobb early in the free-agent process, as he checks a lot of boxes."
"He’s a couple of years removed from an arm injury, has good stuff, would be making the move from the American League to the pitcher-hitting National League and gets an A+ in terms of fitting into the Cubs' clubhouse," Rogers wrote.
Cobb in turn would reunite with former Rays manager Joe Maddon and pitching coach Jim Hickey, whom Maddon and the Cubs poached from Tampa Bay last month. The 30-year-old righty spoke fondly of both in an MLB Network Radio interview:
Would Alex Cobb be interested in a Joe Maddon/Jim Hickey reunion with the #Cubs? We asked him

#Rays https://t.co/8bubj6Z5l8
According to Peter Gammons, the New York Yankees are Chicago's primary competition for Cobb. 
Baltimore has a better chance of signing Lynn, but it's not the only squad in dire need of starting pitching. The Philadelphia Phillies have a clear payroll and severely limited rotation, so the 6'5" hurler represents the perfect mid-tier signing for them to gradually turn around years of rebuilding.
As for the Orioles, they will strike elsewhere.
Prediction: Cobb signs with Cubs; Lynn goes to Phillies
           
Tyler Chatwood "Drawing Huge Interest"

Tyler Chatwood would represent free agency's biggest sleeper if teams were actually sleeping on him.
According to Heyman, the right-handed starter is "drawing huge interest" around MLB. The Orioles and Texas Rangers are among "many teams" eyeing his services.
Age and a career 3.31 ERA away from Coors Field make Chatwood—who turns 28 in December—a highly desirable option despite last season's 4.69 ERA and 77 walks in 147.2 innings for the Colorado Rockies.
Although commonly branded as this winter's Charlie Morton because of his high spin rate, Heyman predicted Chatwood will "decimate" the $14 million, two-year deal his peer received from the Houston Astros last offseason.
MLB.com's Mike Petriello expanded the comparison, noting the free agent's velocity uptick and high ground-ball rate (58.1 percent in 2017). He also examined the spin rate from a curveball Chatwood should use more often next season. 
"Chatwood has elite curve spin, too," Petriello wrote. "In 2017, there were 229 pitchers who threw 100 curves, and his spin rate of 2980 RPM was the fifth-highest, well above the Major League average of 2489 RPM, and just ahead of Morton himself (2874 RPM)."
Camden Yards is hardly a pitcher's haven and moving to the AL East would also suppress a full-fledged breakout away from Colorado. Yet Chatwood still represents an affordable upgrade to an abysmal rotation, so Baltimore locks him down to a multi-year deal.
Prediction: Chatwood signs three-year deal with Orioles.
              
Note: All advanced statistics courtesy of FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.



Giancarlo Stanton appears likely to be traded this season, and so far it's the St. Louis Cardinals who are making a move for the Miami Marlins star.
According to Jon Morosi of MLB Network, the Cardinals have made a formal trade offer and are waiting for a response from Miami.
Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic reported Friday the San Francisco Giants had also made a formal offer, with the Boston Red Sox also expected to make a bid.
Stanton was recently named the National League MVP after leading the league with 59 home runs and 132 RBI this season.
Despite his success, the Marlins with their new owners are looking for ways to shed payroll while trading away a player who is set to make $25 million next season, per Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald.
Stanton is signed through 2028 with at least $25 million owed per year.
Even if Miami pays some part of the deal, any trade would significantly reduce costs while helping build for the future. On the other side, a contending squad would add one of the top power hitters in baseball.
Although the 28-year-old has sometimes struggled to stay healthy, he has been to four All-Star Games in the last six years and is averaging 44 home runs and 110 RBI per 162 games.
According to Jackson, Stanton would likely waive his no-trade clause for either the Giants or Los Angeles Dodgers.



Major League Baseball's hardware week came to a close Friday night with the Esurance Awards as players across the league were celebrated for their achievements throughout the 2017 season.      
But unlike the Rookie of the Year, MVP and the Cy Young Awards, the Esurance Awards weren't voted on by the 30 members of the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
Rather, fans, members of the media, front-office personnel, retired MLB players and members of the Society for American Baseball Research (SABR) comprised a comprehensive voting panel. Each group's vote accounted for 20 percent of the final voting tallies in each category, with postseason performance taken into account. 
Here's a rundown of the evening's winners. 
Houston Astros second baseman Jose Altuve was named the 2017 American League MVP on Thursday, and he added to his trophy case Friday by snagging Best Major Leaguer honors. 
The newly minted World Series champion was in a league of his own throughout 2017, slashing .346/.410/.547 with 24 home runs and 81 RBI as he stitched together a fourth straight season with at least 200 hits.   
ESPN Stats & Info broke down Altuve's outrageous efficiency at the plate: 
What made José Altuve great?

- .354/.422/.513 in PA ending with low pitches in 2017

- Only had .300+ BA vs low pitches once previously (.328 in 2014) https://t.co/lO5kVqIkrM
According to MLB.com's Andrew Simon, the player to win Best Major Leaguer every year since it was introduced in 2012 has also won MVP. 
The Best Pitcher nod went to Cleveland Indians starter and American League Cy Young Award winner Corey Kluber, who dazzled throughout 2017. 
The cornerstone of Cleveland's rotation during its 102-win season, Kluber went 18-4 with an MLB-best 2.25 ERA, 0.869 WHIP and 7.36 strikeout-to-walk rate. He also tied for an MLB-best five complete games and three shutouts while allowing an AL-best 6.2 hits per nine innings. 
FanGraphs (via ESPN Stats & Info) noted Kluber was so dominant because a filthy curveball anchored his stifling repertoire: 
What made Corey Kluber great?

His curveball had a value of 38 runs better than average, highest for any pitch in MLB (via @fangraphs)

230 outs, 142 K with curveball - both most in MLB https://t.co/9gXhUDVUOa
Those marks were all fueled by a dominant performance after June 1, when Cleveland activated Kluber from the disabled list after a back injury hindered his early-season performance. 
Over his final 23 starts, Kluber went 15-2 with a 1.62 ERA with 224 strikeouts and 23 walks. 
"It's just a constant learning experience," Kluber said on the MLB Network after winning the Cy Young, per Cleveland.com's Paul Hoynes. "This year I dealt with more physically than I had in the past, and you learn how to deal with those different ups and downs."
Elsewhere, New York Yankees right fielder Aaron Judge took home the Best Rookie award after he entered the record books by smashing a rookie-record 52 home runs. 
That's our guy! 

Congrats Aaron on winning the Esurance MLB Award for Best Rookie! 🏆 https://t.co/WnDn7x22Ct
All told, Judge slashed .284/.422/.627 with a 1.049 OPS and 114 RBI as he helped propel the Yankees to an American League Wild Card berth and an American League Division Series upset of the Indians. Furthermore, Judge played an integral role in helping the Bronx Bombers take a 3-2 American League Championship Series lead before the Astros stormed back at home in Games 6 and 7 to clinch the pennant. 
Colorado Rockies third baseman Nolan Arenado was also a big winner Friday night. 
ANOTHER AWARD! 

Nolan's Father's Day walk-off cycle has been voted the Offensive Play of the Year in the Esurance MLB Awards! https://t.co/eiqTx90tm5
In addition to capturing Best Play, Offense, thanks to his walk-off home run over the San Francisco Giants on Father's Day, Arenado took home Best Defensive Player. 
A hot corner patrolman of the highest order, Arenado led all third basemen in defensive runs saved (20) and tied for second among his positional cohorts with a 6.7 UZR, per FanGraphs. 
Arenado's 2.3 defensive wins above replacement also ranked sixth among all players and third among all infielders behind the Los Angeles Angels' Andrelton Simmons (4.2) and the Cincinnati Reds' Tucker Barnhart (2.8). 
Now looking ahead to 2018, Arenado will try to propel the Rockies to sustained postseason success after they fell to the Arizona Diamondbacks in the National League Wild Card Game. 
                      
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference unless noted otherwise.     



The San Francisco Giants have reportedly presented the Miami Marlins with a formal trade offer for outfielder Giancarlo Stanton as the sweepstakes to land the reigning MLB home run champion begin in earnest.
Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic reported the Giants' proposal Friday and noted the Marlins are also expecting interest in the slugger from the St. Louis Cardinals, Boston Red Sox and multiple "unidentified clubs."
Stanton is one of several notable players, along with infielders Dee Gordon and Martin Prado, Miami will consider moving over the next few months as it attempts to trim its payroll to around $90 million before the 2018 season, per Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald.
The 28-year-old California native was named the National League's Most Valuable Player for 2017 on Thursday after edging Cincinnati Reds first baseman Joey Votto by two points in the Baseball Writers' Association of America voting.
His 13-year, $325 million contract is a significant hurdle toward the Marlins' reaching their payroll goal under a new ownership group led by Bruce Sherman and longtime New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter, though.
It's a deal that includes a full no-trade clause, which means Stanton controls his destiny in terms of where he'll play next season and beyond. That said, he suggested to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports in September he'll consider waiving it if Miami is prepared to undergo another rebuilding project.
"I don't want to rebuild…I've lost for seven years," he said.
On Thursday, Bob Nightengale of USA Today listed the Giants as the "most aggressive" club in the Stanton chase but added the Marlins are "not close" to any type of final agreement.
San Francisco represents an ideal fit on paper. Along with allowing Stanton to return to California, the lineup features an opening in the outfield alongside Denard Span and Hunter Pence. In addition, the team finished last in MLB with just 128 homers in 2017.



John Hart stepped down from his role as Atlanta Braves President of Baseball Operations on Friday amid an MLB investigation into the team's handling of the international player market.
The Braves announced the decision on social media and provided a statement from Hart, who's leaving to "pursue other opportunities outside the organization:"
John Hart Leaves the Braves to Pursue Other Opportunities: https://t.co/FDEUFaFEio
David O'Brien of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported last month potential penalties for the alleged "multi-pronged malfeasance," which led to the exit of general manager John Coppolella and international scouting supervisor Gordon Blakeley, included a substantial fine, the loss of prospects acquired through the international market and restrictions of future signings from outside the United States.
On Thursday, Mark Bowman of MLB.com noted an MLB ruling could arrive early next week and added: "The depth of Hart's involvement or knowledge, or lack thereof, of the alleged infractions may be better understood once MLB announces the penalties."
"The past few months have been the toughest in the storied history of the Atlanta Braves franchise," CEO Terry McGuirk told reporters this week. "Frankly, the Braves have not lived up to our standard that the fans expect of us and that we expect of ourselves. On behalf of the entire Braves family, I want to apologize to the fans and our partners. We’ve let you down and we will work to regain your trust."
Hart jointed the Braves organization in 2014 and worked alongside Coppolella on a massive rebuilding project, which featured several notable international signings, including Kevin Maitan.
The 69-year-old Florida native previously worked for the Cleveland Indians during their 1990s success, as well as making stops with the Baltimore Orioles and Texas Rangers.
Meanwhile, Atlanta announced the hiring of former Toronto Blue Jays general manager Alex Anthopoulos as their new GM to lead the franchise following the scandal.



"You Only Live Once" is either a great excuse for doing something bold or a bad excuse for doing something stupid.
Since this is as true in Major League Baseball as it is in life, let's consider the biggest YOLO risks that contenders might pursue this offseason.
At play are realistic (yes, the emphasis is necessary) big-ticket transactions that, if all were to go well, would elevate a given contender to a new level or, if all didn't go well, would pull the wings off that given contender's future and cause it to plummet.
Since there are 17 teams that can be fairly deemed as contenders—i.e. teams that aren't rebuilding or somewhere between contending and rebulding—you'd better strap in for this one. Starting in the AL East, we'll go division by division and in order from best 2017 record to worst 2017 record.

True, a trade for Giancarlo Stanton would cost the Boston Red Sox a basket of arms and legs. But after hitting an American League-low 168 homers in 2017, their need for power is strong enough to justify such a risk.
Something riskier would be spending, say, $150 million on Eric Hosmer.
The 28-year-old fits Boston's need for a lefty-hitting first baseman. He's also coming off a career year highlighted by an .882 OPS and 25 homers, which might be just the tip of his power iceberg.
"If you told Eric Hosmer, 'We need you to hit 40 home runs,' he would be able to hit 40 home runs," said Kansas City Royals general manager Dayton Moore, per Rob Bradford of WEEI.com.
However, Hosmer's power seems held in check more by a ground-ball habit than by choice. And wins above replacement captures how his production, in general, has been inconsistent. If that were to continue, he'd become an expensive blight on an already bloated payroll.

The New York Yankees can afford either Yu Darvish or Jake Arrieta, but what would be more interesting is if they saved their money and reached over to the National League to trade for Gerrit Cole instead.
Since he's just two years removed from a Cy Young-caliber campaign and still two years away from free agency, the Pittsburgh Pirates won't be parting with him unless they get multiple top prospects.
With MLB's No. 3 farm system, as ranked by B/R's Joel Reuter, the Yankees are one of few teams that could work such a deal. The appeal would be in slotting Cole next to Luis Severino, Masahiro Tanaka and Sonny Gray to form one of baseball's most star-studded rotations.
The downside, however, is that Cole's last two seasons have been marred by injuries and ineffectiveness. If more of that were to follow in 2018 and 2019, the Yankees would have sacrificed a good chunk of a farm system that they've only just rebuilt following years of neglect.

The Cleveland Indians don't require major tweaks but could benefit from adding a right-handed bat to an outfield that skews left-handed.
Bypassing the open market and trading for Marcell Ozuna is doable. He's projected by MLB Trade Rumors to be paid $10.9 million in 2018 by a Miami Marlins team that's trying to cut payroll.
Because he's only 27 and coming off a career year punctuated by a .924 OPS and 37 homers, the Indians would have to trade from an already thinning farm system to land Ozuna. His earnings would be another issue as they're already in uncharted territory with their payroll.
It would be worth it if he picked up where he left off in 2017, as such outstanding production would be of great help to an Indians team that has oodles of unfinished business.
But then there's the potential pitfall: Ozuna falling back into a pattern of inconsistency and doing little for Cleveland before leaving as a free agent after 2019.

According to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, the Minnesota Twins covet both Yu Darvish and Jake Arrieta as solutions for a starting rotation that's been among MLB's worst since 2011.
But since his final price tag should fall closer to $100 million than to $150 million, Arrieta is more their speed. He also showed in winning the National League Cy Young in 2015 that he has more upside than Darvish, whose only Cy Young-caliber season came back in 2013.
If the Twins were to sign Arrieta and receive something like his best self in return, then the trio of him, Ervin Santana and Jose Berrios could prove instrumental in snapping the club's seven-year playoff drought.
Alternatively, the 31-year-old could continue a pattern of regression and the Twins would stay stuck below the Indians in the AL Central pecking order. The Twins would not only be out a lot of money but also a draft pick due to his qualifying offer ties.

The Houston Astros aren't being mentioned as one of Giancarlo Stanton's prime suitors, but they're as good a dark horse as anyone.
They have the funds to accommodate the $295 million he's owed, for one. For two, they have incentive to up the ante as they seek to turn one World Series title into a run of multiple World Series titles.
The idea would be to take a strength that's already ironclad and clad it in adamantium. Houston's offense was MLB's best in 2017. Add Stanton, who clubbed an MLB-high 59 homers, and the Astros could give even the 1927 Yankees a run for their money.
Stanton himself is a risk, however. He's had injuries over the years and, at 28 years old, isn't exactly young anymore.
And while the Astros can afford to try their luck, they wouldn't be able to simply shrug off Stanton's contract if it were to turn into an albatross. They don't have that much payroll space and prospect depth.

Having already locked up Justin Upton for five more seasons, the Los Angeles Angels must now see to a starting rotation that requires stability.
Darvish would do the trick.
Despite his two-part flop in the World Series with the Los Angeles Dodgers, Darvish still had a successful 2017. He put up a 3.86 ERA in 186.2 innings, striking out 209 batters along the way. The Angels could use a guy like that. Only Ricky Nolasco topped 150 innings for them in 2017, and he did so with a 4.92 ERA.
The cost would be tremendous, however. Given his track record and lack of ties to draft pick compensation, Darvish's price is likely to exceed $150 million. That's a lot of money for an Angels team that already has a top-heavy payroll.
Then there's the question of whether Darvish would truly do anything other than fill a need. Would the Angels be anywhere near good enough to topple the Astros? And before free agency beckons Mike Trout after 2020?

The Seattle Mariners weren't good at anything in a 78-win 2017 season, but at least there's hope that their offense will improve in 2018. It's their pitching that needs an upgrade.
Ideally, it would be Chris Archer.
As a guy who's averaged 227 strikeouts and 202 innings since 2014, Archer is just the guy to patch a rotation that needs something solid to account for James Paxton's fragility and Felix Hernandez's decline. The next stop could be the Mariners' first postseason since 2001.
It would cost them, though. Archer's contract runs as far as 2021, where it would max out at an $11 million salary. Thus can the Tampa Bay Rays demand a team drain its farm system to acquire him.
Seattle's system has been drained plenty already, so the club would be putting all its chips on Archer if he came over in a trade. There are two problems with that: He's not terribly consistent, and the Mariners would have the same Astros problem as the Angels.

The Texas Rangers must also rebound from a 78-win season. To do that, they must find a leader for a rotation that features Cole Hamels, Martin Perez and little else.
A reunion with Darvish is plausible, but the Rangers are about as likely as the Twins to take the less costly route to Arrieta.
What could help Arrieta more so in Texas than in Minnesota is defense. Although the Twins got all sorts of credit for their defense last year, the Rangers were more efficient at turning batted balls into outs. Of particular relevance to a ground-ball pitcher like Arrieta is that the Rangers have the better infield.
However, excellent defense didn't have much power to stop Arrieta's decline in Chicago. And even if he were to turn things around in Texas, there's still the Astros factor.
In either case, the Rangers would be left to bemoan not just the financial cost of signing Arrieta but also the lost draft pick.

Since 2018 could be their last hurrah with Bryce Harper, few teams have as much incentive to really go for it next year like the Washington Nationals.
The trade market is arguably the best avenue for them to do so. Because Jayson Werth's free agency opens up a hole for a righty-hitting outfielder, one option is to rekindle talks with the Pirates about Andrew McCutchen.
If the Nationals really wanted to push the envelope, they could seek McCutchen in a package deal with Cole and/or Francisco Cervelli. The cost would be enormous—perhaps even Victor Robles-sized—but the effect would be a 97-win team getting substantial upgrades.
However, McCutchen is only signed through 2018. Cole and Cervelli are only signed through 2019. Dealing for them would only prop up their short-term window rather than keep it open for the long term.
In other words: It really would be World Series or bust.

The New York Mets' 2017 season was as painful to watch as it was for their players to experience. However, they have enough talented arms and might just be one more bat away from a turnaround.
Since said bat would fit well at third base, Mike Moustakas comes into focus.
He'll be expensive coming off a year in which he launched a career-high 38 homers but perhaps not too expensive for a Mets team that loves to pinch pennies. If the Mets were to sign him, they'd be adding even more power to a lineup that led the NL in homers in 2017.
Trouble is, signing Moustakas could be spending a lot of money on a mere Band-Aid.
With just a .305 career OBP to his name, Moustakas isn't the guy to solve New York's on-base percentage problem. After posting bad ratings in 2017, he also might not be the guy to solve the club's defensive efficiency problem.

It took just one season for the Chicago Cubs to go from champions to a team in need of serious retooling. Their top need is an ace starter to fill Arrieta's vacated spot.
The safe play would be the Cubs flexing their financial muscle to bring back Arrieta or reel in Darvish. A far riskier move would be using the trade market to find an ace, particularly if said ace is Archer.
A trade would re-team the Rays ace with former manager Joe Maddon and pitching coach Jim Hickey, who surely wouldn't mind seeing Arrieta's shoes filled by a younger, more electric starter. With Archer alongside Jon Lester, Kyle Hendricks and Jose Quintana, Chicago's rotation could be one of MLB's best.
But with their farm system already sucked dry, the Cubs would likely have to sacrifice Kyle Schwarber, Javier Baez, Addison Russell and/or Ian Happ to make this happen. A deal for Archer would thus be a do-or-die gamble on a pitcher who, once again, isn't terribly consistent.

It's on to a different NL Central team, but the arrows once again point to Archer.
The Milwaukee Brewers went from rebuilders to contenders in 2017, riding a wave of young talent to an 86-win campaign. But to take the next step, they need to bolster their starting pitching.
The Brewers might spend big bucks on a free agent, but they're better suited to take advantage of the trade market. In fact, they're one of few suitors who wouldn't have to sell the whole farm for Archer. Their system is about as deep as the Mariana Trench.
The danger, though, is the possibility that 2017 overstated their readiness for contention.
Milwaukee's roster isn't short on potential regression threats and also features an ominous unknown in the long-term health of 2017 breakout star Jimmy Nelson. This is also a team with limited spending capacity, so it would certainly be ruing its lost prospects if an Archer trade were to land with a thud.

Every indication is that the St. Louis Cardinals are sincere in their pursuit of Stanton, and nobody needs to convince yours truly that the pursuit makes sense.
Although the Cardinals offense was mired in mediocrity in 2017, it was more due to the lack of a standout star than a lack of depth. Stanton would obviously fix that and turn St. Louis' lineup into one of the better units in the National League. 
That alone would level the playing field in the NL Central. With a few more stars aligned just right, Stanton could be the key to the Cardinals snapping a lengthy (by their standards) two-year postseason drought.
However, Stanton's enormous cost and sketchy injury history would still loom as potential pitfalls. And since he wouldn't solve the Cardinals' pitching needs or—like he could in Houston—turn their offense into an all-time great unit, adding him would be more of a shot in the arm than a cure-all.

With deep pockets, a loaded farm system and a roster that just produced 104 wins and a National League pennant, the Los Angeles Dodgers are in a position where they don't need to take big risks but can if they want.
So even if it's not terribly likely, the idea of Stanton in Dodger blue is too good to brush off.
It would be a homecoming for the Sherman Oaks native, and his bat would elevate Los Angeles' offense from merely good to truly great. With elite pitching already in place, the Dodgers could then go on to capture an elusive World Series title.
Yet it's for good reasons that a Stanton trade would be out of the Dodgers' character.
Andrew Friedman, the club's president of baseball operations, values sustainability and has built a good model for it. Sacrificing prospects and payroll space for Stanton would throw this model out of whack and potentially send them back to the drawing board a lot sooner than they'd like.

If the Arizona Diamondbacks want to pick up where they left off following their return to the postseason, it would help to bring back the guy who got them there with a 1.107 OPS and 29 homers in only 62 games.
Because, like Darvish, J.D. Martinez is an excellent player who'll only cost teams money and no draft picks, he's a relatively low-risk superstar free agent. But since this and Scott Boras' representation will ensure an intense bidding war, the Diamondbacks can't hope to re-sign the slugger for a hometown discount.
If all were to go well, he'd continue to be one of baseball's elite sluggers and be worth every penny for a budding NL West powerhouse.
The flipside involves Martinez being felled by his faults, which include bad defense and being prone to injuries. That would be a disaster for a team like the Diamondbacks, whose $206.5 million investment in Zack Greinke creates little space for an albatross.

After their $70 million roll of the dice on Ian Desmond fell flat in 2017, the Colorado Rockies can now shift him back to the outfield and shop for a new first baseman.
According to Thomas Harding of MLB.com, Hosmer is "high on the early wish list." He would give the Rockies Gold Glove winners at three of four infield spots. He would also be an upgrade over Carlos Gonzalez (who had an awful 2017) as a middle-of-the-order lefty slugger.
But even Coors Field would be powerless to make Hosmer's ground-ball habit less of a sticking point, and don't think the Rockies wouldn't need his offense to live up to the hype. By weighted runs created plus, which adjusts for ballpark factors, they're coming off a year in which they ranked 27th in offense.
Thus, Hosmer might not be the Rockies' ticket from thin air to rarefied air. Considering that he could cost twice as much as Desmond, that's not a good omen.

For most suitors, acquiring Stanton would be an act of bravado. For the San Francisco Giants, it would be an act of desperation.
According to Bob Nightengale of USA Today, the Giants have been the "most aggressive" team after Stanton. In a related story, they hit an MLB-low 128 home runs in 2017.
Although that power outage was part of a miserable 98-loss campaign, it's not impossible to imagine a Stanton trade kicking off a return to form. With their power problem solved, the Giants would only need their in-house collection of stars to return to good health.
But of those stars, only Madison Bumgarner and Joe Panik won't be on the wrong side of 30 next season. To boot, the Giants are already loaded with long-term financial burdens and have long since seen their farm system turn into a barren landscape.
It's thus hard to imagine how they can even afford a Stanton trade, much less how they could recover if the trade were to go south.
        
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Baseball Prospectus. Contract and payroll data courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.




Capping off Major League Baseball's annual awards week, Jose Altuve of the Houston Astros and Giancarlo Stanton of the Miami Marlins were named American League and National League Most Valuable Player, respectively, on Thursday.
After finishing in the top 10 of MVP voting in 2015 and 2016, Altuve became the second player in Astros history to take home the award, joining Jeff Bagwell, who won in 1994. Houston's superstar second baseman beat out New York Yankees rookie sensation Aaron Judge and Cleveland Indians third baseman Jose Ramirez. 
Stanton's massive display of power in 2017, which included 59 home runs and a .631 slugging percentage, carried him to the award. The 28-year-old is the first player in Marlins history to be named NL MVP, finishing just two points ahead of runner-up Joey Votto of the Cincinnati Reds while Arizona Diamondbacks first baseman Paul Goldschmidt came in third. 
Here are full MVP voting results for the AL and NL, per the Baseball Writers Association of America:
AL MVP Voting Results
1. Jose Altuve, Houston Astros (405 points; 27 first-place votes)
2. Aaron Judge, New York Yankees (279 points; two first-place votes)
3. Jose Ramirez, Cleveland Indians (237 points; one first-place vote)
4. Mike Trout, Los Angeles Angels (197 points)
5. Francisco Lindor, Cleveland Indians (143 points)
NL MVP Voting Results
1. Giancarlo Stanton, Miami Marlins (302 points; 10 first-place votes)
2. Joey Votto, Cincinnati Reds (300 points; 10 first-place votes)
3. Paul Goldschmidt, Arizona Diamondbacks (239 points; four first-place votes)
4. Nolan Arenado, Colorado Rockies (229 points; two first-place votes)
5. Charlie Blackmon, Colorado Rockies (205 points; three first-place votes)
Stanton's two-point margin of victory over Votto marked the fourth-closest MVP vote in MLB history.
Giancarlo Stanton wins NL MVP award. Joey Votto second. Paul Goldschmidt third. Fourth-closest MVP election in BBWAA history
Since both players received 10 first-place votes, the difference came by way of Stanton getting one more second-place vote (worth nine points) and one more third-place vote (worth eight points). 
The only MVP races closer than the 2017 NL MVP finish were 1979 when Keith Hernandez and Willie Stargell tied for the award, 1947 when Joe DiMaggio (202) beat Ted Williams (201) by one point and 1944 when Marty Marion (190) finished one point ahead of Bill Nicholson (189). 
It turns out staying healthy is all that was needed to unlock a new gear in Stanton's already excellent career. He was the runner-up for NL MVP in 2014 when he led the league with 37 home runs and a .555 slugging percentage. Stanton finished behind Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Clayton Kershaw
That was also the last time prior to 2017 that he didn't spend time on the disabled list with an injury. Stanton made those 2014 numbers look middling with what he did in 2017, finishing one home run shy of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to hit at least 60 home runs in a season.
Congratulations to the 2017 @officialBBWAA National League #MVP, @Giancarlo818! https://t.co/Dr6imlZvFF
Known for his prodigious power, Stanton took things to another level from July 5 through Aug. 15 with 23 home runs in a 35-game span that put him in exclusive company in MLB history:
Giancarlo Stanton has 23 HR in last 35 games; from @EliasSports, only Sammy Sosa (1998) and Barry Bonds (2001) had more in 35-game stretch. https://t.co/hXCbaeQgGZ
It can be easy to get lost in power numbers, but Stanton is a terrific hitter. The four-time All-Star hit .281/.376/.631 during his MVP campaign, setting career highs with 123 runs scored and 132 RBI. 
NL #MVP @Giancarlo818 had the highest qualified slugging percentage EVER by a @Marlins player. https://t.co/j2muL1NmDe
Marlins assistant hitting coach Frank Menechino told Joe Frisaro of MLB.com that Stanton's game got better when he made a slight change to his hitting stance by moving his front foot closer to home plate:
"It put him in a good position to hit. It put him in position to get out of the way and gave him confidence. Gave him something less to worry about. Before we did that, he was stepping in the bucket and we couldn't stop it. He tried to fix it on his own. He tried to do a couple of different things, this and that."
Another area Stanton improved offensively last season, per ESPN Stats & Info, was on outside pitches:
What made Giancarlo Stanton great?

He shored up a weakness:

.267 BA/.541 slug pct vs outside pitches (up 34 pts/100 pts respectively from 2016) https://t.co/4TxYGD1RRi
Stanton has also made himself into an excellent defensive player in right field. He ranked third among NL right fielders with 10 defensive runs saved and first with 110 plays made out of the zone, per FanGraphs.
Goldschmidt and Votto feature prominently on the short list of best hitters in the NL. They were two of the eight players in the league with an on-base percentage of .400 or better in 2017. 
The big separating factor for Stanton was power. He hit 20 more home runs than any other NL player, including 23 more than Goldschmidt and Votto, and slugged 30 points higher than anyone in the league. 
Even though the Marlins weren't a big factor in the NL playoff race, Stanton had a memorable season that made him worthy of being recognized as an MVP. 
With Stanton's name a staple of trade rumors this offseason, Eno Sarris of FanGraphs offered this tidbit about MVP winners switching teams:
Only twice has the MVP been traded in the offseason in which he won the award. Alex Rodriguez in 2003. Eddie Collins in 1914. #Stanton.
For now, though, the Marlins can celebrate their first-ever MVP winner. 
Since his MLB debut in 2011, Altuve has been a hit machine for the Astros. The Venezuelan native has led the AL in hits every season since 2014 and has recorded at least 200 hits in each of those seasons.
.@JoseAltuve27 becomes 5th player since 1947 with at least four straight 200-hit seasons (Ichiro, M. Young, W. Boggs, K. Puckett). https://t.co/ofd64Wgmzs
In 2017, Altuve set a new career high and led MLB with a .346 batting average. He also set career highs in on-base percentage (.410) and slugging percentage (.547) and tied his career high with 24 home runs. 
Astros manager A.J. Hinch praised Altuve's consistency from game to game and season to season when making an MVP sales pitch on behalf of his second baseman, per Brian McTaggart of MLB.com:
"Well, I don't know any more ways to describe Jose other than he's as close to perfect as you can imagine as a manager. He does everything right. And I've used this before, but he's every bit what's right about our team and our organization, and he represents so much of what we do. His consistency is second to none in the big leagues. It's why I believe he's the MVP of the [American] League."
Altuve's MVP win caps off what has been a busy offseason with many individual honors two weeks after helping the Astros win their first World Series title:
2017 Awards for Jose Altuve:
- MLBPA's MLB Player of the Year (2nd in a row)
- MLBPA's AL Most Outstanding Player (2nd in a row)
- 2017 Sporting News Player of the Year (2nd in a row)
- 2017 AL Hank Aaron Award 

- AL MVP will be announced Thursday
Almost 23 years ago to the day that Bagwell was named NL MVP for the Astros, Greg Rajan of the Houston Chronicle tweeted out what the front pages of the newspaper looked like:
Jose Altuve is the front-runner to become #Astros second MVP winner today. The @HoustonChron front pages from Oct. 28, 1994, after Jeff Bagwell was named National League MVP. https://t.co/WKfLoPDd66
It's also fitting Altuve was named MVP for 2017, the same year Bagwell was enshrined in the Baseball Hall of Fame in July.
Per Jake Kaplan of the Houston Chronicle, MVP winners at second base have been a rarity in MLB history: 
Altuve is the first second baseman since Dustin Pedroia in 2008 to win MVP and just the 10th second baseman to win since the BBWAA began voting in 1931. https://t.co/xK0K5Ivxna
Altuve wound up being the overwhelming winner in the AL MVP voting, but Richard Justice of MLB.com did note Judge was superior in several notable categories:
AL MVP frontrunners at a glance...
                Judge  Altuve
BA           .284    .346
OPS        1.049   .957
wOBA     .430     .405
wRC+      173      160
WAR        8.2       7.5
Runs        128      112
Doubles   24        39
Homers    52        24
It's hard to make an argument against Altuve or Judge as a viable MVP candidate in 2017. Judge had a rough 51-game stretch from July 1 through Aug. 30 when he hit .209/.356/.407 with 80 strikeouts in 177 at-bats that brought his all-world numbers down to earth. 
By comparison, Altuve's worst month in 2017 was September with a .291/.390/.442 slash line in 25 games. 
The Astros were the story in MLB throughout the season, which was capped off with their thrilling World Series win over the Los Angeles Dodgers. Altuve was at the center of everything they did, leading to him being named AL MVP.
This also marks the third straight year with at least one MVP winner from a non-playoff team. Washington Nationals outfielder Bryce Harper (2015) and Los Angeles Angels outfielder Mike Trout (2016) previously pulled off the feat.



The 5'6" Jose Altuve stood taller than anyone else in the American League during the 2017 season.
After leading the Houston Astros to a World Series victory, Altuve was named the league's Most Valuable Player on Thursday. He beat out New York Yankees outfielder Aaron Judge and Cleveland Indians third baseman Jose Ramirez with 405 total voting points thanks to 27 first-place votes. 
Judge finished a distant second with 279 points (two first-place votes), while Ramirez raked in 237 points and a single first-place nod. 
Jose Altuve wins AL MVP Award 🏆

• .346/.410/.547
• 24 HR
• 39 2B
• 81 RBI
• 32 SB https://t.co/NJsYF5nhaI
The Astros second baseman checked all the boxes of an MVP candidate.
There was team success, as Houston ran away with the American League West with a 101-61 mark before it reached the Fall Classic. There was the video game-like slash line of .346/.410/.547 to go along with solid power numbers of 24 home runs and 81 RBI.
The five-time All-Star was also remarkably consistent while one of his primary competitors, Judge, slumped for extended stretches after the All-Star break. Altuve posted a .968 OPS in the first half and a .944 OPS in the second half.
While this is a regular-season award, it is also impossible to ignore his postseason accomplishments, considering MVPs are so often counted on to deliver in the biggest moments.
He drilled three home runs in Houston's playoff opener against the Boston Red Sox, tallied three-multi hit games in the American League Championship Series against the New York Yankees and hit a clutch extra-inning home run in Game 2 of the World Series, which Houston won. He also had three hits, a home run and four RBI in the Astros' Game 5 win over the Los Angeles Dodgers in the Fall Classic.
Altuve impacts the game with more than his bat, as his 32 stolen bases show. The 2015 Gold Glover was also solid again in the field this season and was responsible for three total defensive runs saved above average, per FanGraphs.
The best part of the MVP campaign from the Astros' perspective is Altuve is just 27 years old and part of a young, talented core with World Series MVP George Springer and Carlos Correa. The 2017 AL MVP award is likely a sign of things to come.



Giancarlo Stanton might not be a Miami Marlin for much longer if rampant trade rumors are to be believed. But if he's played his final game as a member of the club, he's gone out in style.
Stanton was named the National League Most Valuable Player on Thursday as he narrowly edged Cincinnati Reds first baseman Joey Votto. Arizona Diamondbacks first baseman Paul Goldschmidt finished a distant third. Stanton became the first Marlins MVP in history when he beat Votto by two voting points, making it the third-closest vote in NL history, according to the BBWAA.
Out of this world. Into the history books.

After a 59-HR campaign, @Giancarlo818 is your 2017 @officialBBWAA NL #MVP. https://t.co/NgB4WCHA1z
The Marlins slugger hit .281/.376/.631 with 59 home runs and 132 runs batted in. His 59 homers were the most since 2001, when Sammy Sosa hit 61 and Barry Bonds broke the all-time record with 73. The performance came a year after Stanton set career lows in nearly every major offensive category. 
"He came to spring training on a mission: 'I want to do this, this and this—and don't let the result take me away from it, because I could do something wrong and hit a homer,'" Marlins assistant hitting coach Frank Menechino told Tyler Kepner of the New York Times. "He wanted consistency. After what he went through the year before, he was like, 'That's not happening again.'"
Despite Stanton's power numbers, Goldschmidt seemed a likely candidate. The perennial All-Star has been on the precipice of winning the MVP for years but never quite got the votes. Following yet another brilliant season that saw him lead the Diamondbacks to the playoffs and slash .297/.404/.563 with 36 home runs and 120 RBI, Goldschmidt had a chance to be rewarded as a bastion of consistency.
Instead, he will have to wait at least another year after being outvoted due to Stanton's once-in-a-generation power numbers and Votto's 7.5-WAR, 1.032-OPS season.



If the St. Louis Cardinals want to intimidate the Chicago Cubs, it would help to have some muscle.
This could explain their interest in Giancarlo Stanton.
Stanton, who uses his many muscles to hit many home runs, is still under contract with the Miami Marlins for a whopping $295 million over the next 10 years. But new Marlins owners Bruce Sherman and Derek Jeter aren't hiding their desire to cut payroll, so any team with the capacity and desire to bring the 28-year-old right fielder aboard is welcome to do so.
According to Jon Morosi of MLB.com, the Cardinals are already among the most aggressive suitors:
Source: #STLCards and #Marlins officials discussed Giancarlo Stanton trade concepts today at the @MLB General Managers Meetings in Orlando. @MLBNetwork
Sources: In Giancarlo Stanton trade talks, #Marlins have had preliminary communication with #RedSox, #STLCards, #SFGiants, #Phillies. Talks expected to intensify at GM Meetings next week. @MLB @MLBNetwork
To an extent, the Cardinals need Stanton the least. Their offense boasted six above-average hitters in 2017. That's twice the amount the Boston Red Sox, San Francisco Giants and Philadelphia Phillies had.
The catch is St. Louis' offense was mediocre anyway, as it finished seventh in the National League in runs and eighth in home runs and OPS. Although the depth was there, it lacked a superstar to tie it together.
As president of baseball operations John Mozeliak told reporters in October: "For us, we have a talented team, but when you look at our club, no one stood out as an All-Star, that threat. I think for all of us up here, it's trying to find what that might look like."
With Stanton, it would look pretty darn good.
This is a guy who owns a .914 career OPS and 267 home runs through eight major league seasons. He's coming off an MVP-caliber year highlighted by career bests in home runs (59), OPS (1.007) and wins above replacement (7.6, per Baseball Reference). Such numbers qualify him as a dandy upgrade for a right field slot that was a relative weakness in St. Louis, as the team got just a .764 OPS from the spot.
Of course, there are significant hurdles between the Cardinals and Stanton.
The Southern California native has a no-trade clause that he may or may not—Chad Jennings of the Boston Herald and Evan Drellich of NBC Sports Boston offered conflicting reports—use to block a trade to St. Louis. He also has an opt-out after 2020, which could cut a potential 10-year partnership down to a mere three-year pact.
In the meantime, the Marlins are playing hard to get.
According to Bob Nightengale of USA Today, Jeter told reporters this week that it hasn't even been determined that Stanton will be moved. That could have something to do with their asking price, which ESPN's Buster Olney has heard is enormous:
Some rival execs view the Marlins' prospect asking price for Giancarlo Stanton as shockingly high and somewhat out of touch with reality, and not discounted nearly enough given the whopping $295 million he's owed (with the forthcoming out clause after the 2020 season).
Because Stanton is a franchise cornerstone who's coming off an epic season, Sherman and Jeter can't be blamed for putting an exorbitant asking price on his head. But even after the season he just had, it's uncertain whether he'll offer much value on top of what he's already set to earn.
I ran Stanton through the same valuation method that I ran the winter's top free agents through and found he projects to be worth about $260 million through 2027, $35 million less than he's owed. It might sound low, but it's reasonable in light of his history of injuries and performance fluctuations.
Between this and the fact that power isn't exactly a rare skill in today's MLB, the Marlins should have to eat some of Stanton's contract to land the prospects they crave.
That would make life easier for all his suitors, but perhaps the Cardinals in particular.
Shaving a few million dollars off his long-term cost would obviously make it easier to fit him into the club's payroll. St. Louis is projected for $126 million for 2018 after opening 2017 near $150 million, and it will gain additional wiggle room when Adam Wainwright's $19.5 million salary comes off the books after the upcoming season.
The Cardinals also have a strong farm system to draw from. B/R's Joel Reuter ranked it No. 11 in MLB in September, with talents such as right-handers Alex Reyes and Jack Flaherty, catcher Carson Kelly and outfielder Tyler O'Neill leading the way. 
The Giants (No. 26 system) and Red Sox (No. 23 system) can't match the Cardinals in this arena. The Phillies are a good match in terms of both prospects (No. 7 system) and payroll space (seriously, though) but aren't the kind of winner Stanton is apparently desperate to play for.
Long story short: There's a deal to be made between Miami and St. Louis. 
A Stanton blockbuster wouldn't cure all the Cardinals' problems. They would still need to fill at least one vacant spot (Lance Lynn's) in their starting rotation, and perhaps two if the deal costs them Reyes. They would also still require fixes for a bullpen that was weak in 2017 and now looks like a real fixer-upper.

What a deal for Stanton would do, however, is elevate their offense to among the best in the National League. That alone would position them to build on last year's 83-win campaign.
As a bonus, it would also turn up the heat on the Cubs.
Chicago looked destined for long-term rule over the NL Central when it won 103 games and the World Series in 2016, but 2017 pulled the rug out from under that assumption. It was a struggle for the Cubs to win even 92 games, and it wasn't until late September that they pulled away from the Cardinals and Milwaukee Brewers.
Further complicating matters is the Cubs will likely lose a good chunk of their team to free agency, including 2015 Cy Young winner Jake Arrieta and ace closer Wade Davis. With $132 million already on their books for 2018, they don't have limitless funds with which to patch these holes. Nor do they have a deep farm system to pull from, as theirs has been steadily fished out in recent seasons.
So if St. Louis does land Stanton, the Cubs might not be able to respond with a similarly seismic move. Maybe that won't doom them to second-fiddle status, but it would doom them to a more level playing field.
With Stanton in their midst, that could prove to be merely the first in a series of victories for the Cardinals.
               
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference. Contract and payroll data courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.




MLB's Most Valuable Player races will spark heated debate about value's true definition.
If home runs still carry significant weight, Aaron Judge and Giancarlo Stanton will respectively take home the American League and National League honors. Then again, Jose Altuve won his fourth straight AL batting title, and Joey Votto topped MLB's on-base percentage leaderboard.
Voters who will only acknowledge someone from a playoff team will have picked Paul Goldschmidt over Stanton and Votto, even though he's the least qualified candidate of the NL trio.
Some would argue choosing the player with a highest WAR is also a lazy shortcut. That's not a clear path for voters anyway, as FanGraphs and Baseball Reference calculated different leaders in each league.
There's no easy answer to who deserves either league's MVP hardware. It's also unclear who will take home the distinctions on Thursday night. With both awards up for grabs, let's handicap the odds for each race's finalists, courtesy of Vegas Insider. 
      
American League MVP Odds
Jose Altuve: 1-10
Aaron Judge: 5-1
Jose Ramirez: 30-1
    
National League MVP Odds
Giancarlo Stanton: 1-1
Paul Goldschmidt: 37-20
Joey Votto: 3-1
      
American League

Although their stature frames Altuve as the David to Judge's Goliath, the Houston Astros superstar is no dark horse. He appeared to lock down the AL honor before the New York Yankees superstar caught fire near the finish line.
Now it's a tighter race than the odds indicate with no clear victor. Jose Ramirez trailing both for the third spot, however, looks like a safe certainty. With a 6.6 fWAR (FanGraphs) and 6.9 rWAR (Baseball Reference), he trailed the other candidates considerably on each site. 
He didn't lead the Cleveland Indians in WAR on either platform, trailing AL Cy Young Award winner Corey Kluber. 
MLB already ruled out Kluber when whittling the field to three, so it's a two-man contest between Altuve and Judge. While Altuve's 8.3 rWAR tops Judge's 8.1, the Yankees outfielder boasts a 8.2 fWAR to the second baseman's 7.5.
Altuve hit .346, stole 32 bases and recorded 84 strikeouts to Judge's MLB-worst 208. Yet the Yankees slugger set a rookie record with 52 home runs. He placed second in the AL behind Mike Trout—who missed the cut on account of playing just 114 games—in on-base percentage, slugging percentage and weighted runs created plus (wRC+).
And remember: Altuve's superior postseason for the World Series champion does not factor into the deliberation.
Judge hit .228 after the All-Star break, but he still cemented a .938 second-half OPS on account of a 21.2 walk percentage and 15 September homers.
As broken down by MLB.com's Richard Justice, Judge was stellar aside from a short summer funk:
AL MVP leaders OPS by month...
Month      Judge   Altuve
April         1.161     .874
May         1.084     .903
June        1.167     1.007
July          .847      1.251
August     .680       .865
Sept         1.352     .832
On the other hand, Altuve's performance never wavered. The 27-year-old endured no prolonged slump for the 101-61 Astros. He hit .337/.400/.459 in 110 plate appearances identified as high leverage by Baseball Reference. Judge batted .219/.361/.500 with a 32.0 strikeout rate in those same situations.
Neutral, reasonable observers should not form an angry mob over either outcome. While this writer gives Judge the slight edge, it's likely enough voters are peeved by his strikeouts and swayed by Altuve's high average and Houston's superior record. The size discrepancy also creates an underdog narrative that will net the 5'6" superstar a few extra polling points.
Prediction: Altuve 
            
National League

Although the focus is now magnified on Goldschmidt, Stanton and Votto, this was the most wide-open MVP race in recent memory.
Having tied Stanton with an NL-best 6.9 fWAR, Anthony Rendon likely at least garnered some top-three ballot designations. Kris Bryant improved his batting average and on-base percentage from last year's MVP campaign. Charlie Blackmon led the majors with 137 runs scored.
In a year with no standout choice, someone from a losing team may receive the prize. Stanton kept the Miami Marlins' playoff hopes alive longer than expected by belting 25 of his 59 home runs from July 17 to Sept. 1. The Cincinnati Reds finished last in the NL Central, but perhaps they would have instead been the worst team in baseball without Votto hitting .320/.454/.578.
Goldschmidt presents a fallback option on a contender who matched Votto's 36 long balls while compiling more runs (117) and RBI (120). Yet he benefited from a hitter-friendly park, submitting a 1.082 OPS at Chase Field and .852 OPS on the road.
Blackmon likely missed the final cut because he dominated in Coors Field. Goldschmidt's 142 wRC+, which normalizes park factors when measuring a hitter's offensive worth, trails Votto's 165 and Stanton's 156.
Even Tommy Pham—who at least deserves a prominent spot on the final top-10 ballot—posted a higher wRC+ (148) and fWAR (5.9) then the Arizona Diamondbacks first baseman.
Goldschmidt should not win, but that doesn't necessarily mean he will not win. After all, he claimed the NL's Silver Slugger Award at first base over Votto simply because he played in a favorable environment with a superior supporting cast.
The decision caught ESPN's Buster Olney off guard:
Can't recall an award decision more surprising in recent seasons than Joey Votto failing to win a Silver Slugger in 2017.
Despite drawing 51 more walks (134) than strikeouts (83), Votto is likely to again get overlooked because he didn't score (106) or drive in (100) as many runs as his contemporaries. The 2010 MVP called 2017 "the best year of my career" to MLB.com's Mark Sheldon as the season expired, but said he doesn't know if the writers will agree. 
"It's a highly subjective vote, and I say that with as much appreciation as I can because I've won one before," Votto said. "As far as winning the award, I'm not sure, but I did everything I can to play as well as I could, to play every day, to improve facets of my game that I promised I would."

Even if no candidate stands out with a Trout-like package of all-around dominance, Stanton's 59 homers—the most in a single season since Sammy Sosa's 64 and Barry Bonds' record-setting 73 in 2001—certainly demand attention.
For all the statistical breakthroughs, everyone still loves dingers. Some voters also prefer a strong finish, and he procured a .702 slugging percentage after the All-Star break.
It's another showdown of two contrasting, yet equally remarkable player profiles. Home runs make bigger waves than walks, so Stanton will enter a winter of rampant trade speculation with the grand prize on his mantle.
Prediction: Stanton
     
Note: All advanced stats courtesy of FanGraphs and Baseball Reference.



Today's Major League Baseball isn't all that dissimilar to today's National Basketball Association. They're leagues of haves and have-nots, wherein the latter are tanking while the former are loading up.
Thus, a Hot Stove hypothetical: What would it look like if a few MLB franchises took a cue from the most recent NBA offseason and used the winter trade market to put "superteams" together?
To recap: The Boston Celtics and Cleveland Cavaliers swapped Isaiah Thomas and Kyrie Irving, the Houston Rockets traded for Chris Paul, and the Oklahoma City Thunder traded for Paul George and Carmelo Anthony. All for the ostensible purpose of taking down the Golden State Warriors, the O.G. NBA superteam.
Could a wave such as this roll over MLB this winter?
Eh, probably not.
But, then again, maybe! 
It's plausible enough to entertain a few ideas, anyway. Going in order from least outrageous to most outrageous, let's look at six possible blockbusters that would super-fy six teams.

The Chicago Cubs let out 108 years of frustration in 2016, but they took on water in 2017 and now have a few leaks to plug to get back on course.
If they reach out to the Detroit Tigers, they'll be there.
Before they pivoted to Jose Quintana, Anthony Fenech of the Detroit Free Press reported in July that the Cubs pursued reigning Rookie of the Year Michael Fulmer. Since he should recover from elbow surgery in time for spring training, they should turn back to him to fill the hole left by Jake Arrieta's free agency.
Because the Cubs' farm system has been bled dry, they'd have to sacrifice pieces from their major league roster to make it so. The usual suspects are Addison Russell, Javier Baez, Kyle Schwarber and Ian Happ.
But if the Cubs are going to go so far as to deal from that group, they might as well push for some deal-sweeteners. Two that make sense are veteran second baseman Ian Kinsler, for whom 2018 will be a walk year, and Shane Greene, who arose as an effective power reliever in 2017.
Fulmer would slot next to Quintana, Kyle Hendricks and Jon Lester to give the Cubs one of baseball's best rotations. Greene would pad their bullpen depth while also keeping the door open for Wade Davis. Kinsler would add needed stability on the infield in between Kris Bryant and Anthony Rizzo.
As a result, the Cubs would look more like their 103-win selves from 2016 than their 92-win selves from 2017.

Even after brushing up against the World Series in 2017, the New York Yankees have room to improve. They must shore up their starting rotation and could stand to do the same with their lineup.
A call to the Cincinnati Reds about Eugenio Suarez, Scooter Gennett and Homer Bailey would do the trick.
With good power and a slick glove, Suarez would be an improvement from Chase Headley at third base. Gennett, who broke out with 27 homers in 2017, would be a solid everyday designated hitter or second base platoon partner for Starlin Castro. Despite his recent troubles with injuries and ineffectiveness, Bailey's track record and rejuvenated fastball would make him a worthwhile upside play.
Convincing the Reds to part with Suarez and Gennett would be the hard part. They're good players who are controlled through 2020 and 2019, respectively.
However, the Reds might jump at the chance to poach Gleyber Torres, Chance Adams, Estevan Florial or other pieces from one of MLB's best farm systems to vastly improve their own system. Plus, moving Bailey would mean getting out from under the $49 million he's still owed.
For the Yankees, the primary benefit would be substantial upgrades to a lineup that was already good enough to finish second in runs and first in defensive efficiency in 2017. Their rotation would also get just what it needs behind Luis Severino, Masahiro Tanaka and Sonny Gray: an arm good enough to use, but not good enough to call off their pursuit of Japanese wunderkind Shohei Otani.

The Cleveland Indians earned 102 wins in 2017, 22 of which came in a single stretch. Many of the pieces that made it possible are still in place. So, yeah, they're already pretty super.
However, there's always the next step up to super-duper.
To get there, Cleveland must at least fill the first base hole opened by Carlos Santana's free agency. It also wouldn't hurt to add a piece to a rotation that's already excellent, but which lacks stability outside of Corey Kluber, Carlos Carrasco and Trevor Bauer (who's not very stable in his own right).
How about a trade with the Tampa Bay Rays, who are in a position to rebuild?
Ace right-hander Chris Archer would fit Cleveland like a glove. He ranks fourth in strikeouts since 2015, so he'd be yet another reason for opposing hitters to fear a starting rotation that just set an all-time record for strikeouts.
Since Archer's contract controls him at low costs through as far as 2021, the Rays' asking price for him likely includes literal arms and legs. Still, they'd probably be happy with top-ranked catching prospect Francisco Mejia as a centerpiece.
But Cleveland shouldn't give up its farm system's crown jewel without angling for more from the Rays. Brad Miller, who hit 30 homers in 2016 and skyrocketed his walk rate in an injury-marred 2017, stands out as a younger, cheaper and potentially just as good fill-in for Santana.

Without any assurances that Bryce Harper will stick around after 2018, the Washington Nationals must summon as much firepower as they can for their biggest World Series push yet.
They still largely resemble the squad that won 97 games in 2017, but they would look better with a replacement for Jayson Werth, who's a free agent, and upgrades for their catching and starting pitching depth.
To fill Werth's shoes, the Nats should get back on the horn with the Pittsburgh Pirates and rekindle the trade discussions they had about Andrew McCutchen last winter. He's heading into his walk year after reestablishing himself as a quality hitter in 2017, so the Pirates have even more incentive to deal him this time around.
As ESPN's Buster Olney argued, the Pirates' future is uncertain enough that they should also listen on staff ace Gerrit Cole, who's only two years away from free agency.
Francisco Cervelli, who's signed through 2019, is another trade chip who should appeal to Washington. With a good on-base habit and solid pitch-framing skills, he's basically the anti-Matt Wieters behind the dish.
A three-player haul like this would cost the Nationals, perhaps to the point where—eek!—they'd have to surrender uber-prospect Victor Robles. But it would whittle their list of faults down to just their middle relief corps. That would be a puny hurdle in between them and the World Series.

The Los Angeles Dodgers won 104 games and lasted until Game 7 of the World Series in 2017. They did so largely on the strength of their arms, which produced a sparkling 3.38 ERA.
Alas, the Houston Astros ultimately outlasted the Dodgers' good-not-great collection of bats. One team that can help with that this winter is the Miami Marlins, who are set to go full-tank under their new owners.
The name on the tip of everyone's tongue right now rhymes with "Moncarlo Chanton." But that's a reach. The Dodgers are supposedly on a mission to cut payroll. Adding Giancarlo Stanton and the $295 million he's still owed doesn't jive with that.
Instead, how about Marcell Ozuna and Christian Yelich?
They're more along the lines of players sought by the Dodgers these days: young, controllable, relatively cheap and, above all, multi-talented. Ozuna, 27, is under club control for two more years. Yelich, 25, is signed to a $49.6 million deal that runs as far as 2021. Ozuna has his power, speed and developing eye. Yelich has an uncanny feel for hitting, baserunning and fielding.
They'd fit nicely in the Dodgers outfield and would free up 2017 breakout star Chris Taylor to move back to the infield with an everyday gig at second base. Like that, Los Angeles' lineup would be free of weaknesses.
The acquisition cost would be immense, but that's OK. The Dodgers have plenty of pieces they can sacrifice from their loaded farm system, including Walker Buehler, Alex Verdugo and Yadier Alvarez.

Maybe this is cheating. After all, the Astros just won 101 games and the World Series. They're about as super as super can be.
But, man, just imagine them with Stanton in their lineup.
This is the same lineup that, per weighted runs created plus, was among the best ever regular-season offensive juggernauts even before it wore down the Dodgers in the World Series. Yet there is room to improve it. The Astros have an opening at designated hitter and could arguably use a corner outfielder.
Stanton could fill either role and would bring with him one of the most dangerous bats in the sport. He's hit 267 home runs in just eight major league seasons, including an MLB-high 59 in 2017. 
“Don’t think we haven’t thought about how easily the ball would go out in our ballpark," Astros owner Jim Crane told Joel Sherman of the New York Post.
Of course, this is if Stanton were to waive his no-trade clause. But in light of his broken-record insistence that winning is his top priority, he surely wouldn't turn down a chance to be for the Astros what Kevin Durant is to the Warriors.
Otherwise, there's not much standing in the way of a trade. The Astros have more spending power than they do long-term commitments, and their list of expendable prospects is headlined by Kyle Tucker, Derek Fisher and Forrest Whitley. 
It must be said that Stanton would improve any of the suitors in pursuit of his services. But the Astros are one of few who can afford him, and the only one that would stand to gain the best offense in MLB history. 
     
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Baseball Prospectus. Contract data courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.




The Major League Baseball Players Association is reportedly holding up Shohei Ohtani's move to the United States after challenging the posting agreement between MLB and Nippon Professional Baseball.       
On Wednesday, FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman reported the MLBPA retains "the right to approve—or reject—any foreign protocol agreement" and was not satisfied with the agreed-upon terms, which would have allowed Ohtani's Japanese club, the Nippon-Ham Fighters, to obtain a maximum posting fee of $20 million. 
However, Heyman reported "management people wonder if the bigger union concern is over that perceived inequity" and not the posting fee itself since Ohtani "is limited to a signing bonus of somewhere between $300,000 and $3.53 million."
Citing management sources, Heyman added there's a belief in some corners that the players union could be trying to "discourage" Ohtani from coming over now and instead delaying his MLB debut until 2020. 
Reason being, Ohtani wouldn't be subject to the arbitration-level salary scale that would start him out at a shade over $500,000. Instead, Ohtani could wait two years until he's 25 years old, avoid the arbitration process and conceivably sign a lucrative deal worth exponentially more.
Specifically, Heyman theorized the two-way stud "could cash in to the tune of $200 million or more."
If Ohtani remains intent on making his MLB debut in 2018, there are three teams that will be able to pay him the biggest signing bonuses.
According to the Associated Press (via the New York Times), the Texas Rangers can pay the maximum $3.535 million, while the New York Yankees ($3.250 million) and Minnesota Twins ($3.245 million) are the only others that have more than $3 million remaining in their international payment pool.
Last season with the Fighters, Ohtani slashed .332/.403/.540 with eight home runs and 31 RBI. He also went 3-2 as a pitcher with a 3.20 ERA and 1.263 WHIP.



The 2017 Cy Young recipients are both repeat winners, with Corey Kluber of the Cleveland Indians claiming honors in the American League and Max Scherzer of the Washington Nationals taking home his second straight National League trophy. 
Kluber beat out AL finalists Chris Sale of the Boston Red Sox and Luis Severino of the New York Yankees by receiving 28 out of 30 first-place votes and 204 total points. 
Scherzer came out ahead of Nationals teammate Stephen Strasburg and Clayton Kershaw of the Los Angeles Dodgers with 27 first-place votes and 201 total points. 
Here are full voting results from both the AL and NL, per the Baseball Writers' Association of America:
AL Cy Young Voting
1. Corey Kluber, Cleveland Indians (204 points; 28 first-place votes)
2. Chris Sale, Boston Red Sox (126 points; two first-place votes)
3. Luis Severino, New York Yankees (73 points)
4. Carlos Carrasco, Cleveland Indians (43 points)
5. Justin Verlander, Detroit Tigers/Houston Astros (32 points)
NL Cy Young Voting
1. Max Scherzer, Washington Nationals (201 points; 27 first-place votes)
2. Clayton Kershaw, Los Angeles Dodgers (126 points; three first-place votes)
3. Stephen Strasburg, Washington Nationals (81 points)
4. Zack Greinke, Arizona Diamondbacks (52 points)
5. Kenley Jansen, Los Angeles Dodgers (22 points)
Diving into the numbers, even against stiff competition, it's clear why Kluber and Scherzer were named the best pitcher in their respective league for the 2017 Major League Baseball season. 
Starting with Kluber, who previously won the AL Cy Young in 2014, his season got off to a disastrous start. The Indians right-hander had a 5.06 ERA with more hits allowed (38) than innings pitched (37.1) after a May 2 outing against the Detroit Tigers. 
Kluber was placed on the disabled list with a back injury on May 3. He returned on June 1, looking like a completely different pitcher. He was named AL Pitcher of the Month in June, August and September with a 1.62 ERA and 224 strikeouts in 166.1 innings over his final 23 starts. 
"Once he gets comfortable and gets his legs under him in a season, man, he pitches at such a high level," Indians manager Terry Francona told Jordan Bastian of MLB.com. 
In addition to those dazzling numbers, the Indians showed the full depth of Kluber's dominance in 2017:
#CyKluber is the 19th pitcher to win multiple Cy Young Awards. 

By the numbers: https://t.co/adz4RFAahi
Upon being named the AL Cy Young winner, the always stoic Kluber had a perfect emotional response to the moment:
TFW you win the #CyYoung Award. 😂😭 https://t.co/vKvis3gqQZ
Two of Kluber's Cleveland teammates took to Twitter to congratulate the ace on his award:
The. Best. 🏆 https://t.co/c2rIt9RLFB
2..... #CyKluber 🤫 https://t.co/xH8lqznX7v
Kluber and Sale were close in several key categories. Sale had a slight edge in FanGraphs' wins above replacement (7.7 to 7.3), a significant edge in total strikeouts (308 to 265) and strikeouts per nine innings (12.9 to 11.7). 
One potential separating factor for Kluber was closing strong down the stretch. Cleveland's ace had a 1.42 ERA from Aug. 1 through Sept. 30. Sale had a 4.09 ERA during that same two-month period, pushing his season ERA up to 2.90. 
After the All-Star break, per Bastian, Kluber had a historic strikeout-to-walk ratio:
Corey Kluber's 11.8 K/BB in 2nd half was 3rd-best in MLB history after the break among pitchers with 100+ IP. Only Cliff Lee (13.6 in 2012) and Pedro (12.0 in 2000) had better marks.
Kluber is the fourth Cleveland Cy Young winner since 2007, joining CC Sabathia (2007) and Cliff Lee (2008). He's also the first player in franchise history to win the award multiple times. 
For the first time in club history, we have a two-time Cy Young Award winner.

Congrats, Corey! #CyKluber https://t.co/7XGhrtGJt6
Like Kluber in the AL, Scherzer was the overwhelming favorite to take home the honor as the NL's top pitcher. Washington's superstar was the only one of the three finalists who made at least 30 starts and threw at least 200 innings. 
Max Scherzer has won the National League Cy Young Award!

(Yes, this is a new tweet.) https://t.co/v6sapCpnAZ
Strasburg and Kershaw both missed multiple weeks due to injuries during the regular season. Strasburg finished with 175.1 innings, and Kershaw was on his heels with 175.0. 
Scherzer led all NL pitchers with 6.0 WAR, just ahead of Strasburg (5.6) and far beyond Kershaw (4.6). 
Per Mike Oz of Yahoo Sports, the numbers were stacked in Scherzer's favor to win his third Cy Young award:
"Scherzer was great across the board. His 268 strikeouts were the most in the NL. His 200.2 innings pitched were tops among the three finalists. His 2.51 ERA wasn’t as good as Kershaw’s, but it was the third-best in MLB, so still excellent. There’s no real knock on Scherzer’s season. The real separator between Scherzer and the others here is innings pitched. He topped the all-important 200-innings threshold while neither Kershaw nor Strasburg did."
Last year, Scherzer became the sixth pitcher in MLB history to win a Cy Young award in both leagues. His first one came in 2013 as a member of the Detroit Tigers. 
With his Cy Young triumph in 2017, Scherzer becomes just the 10th pitcher with at least three awards on his resume. He's also the second NL pitcher in the last five seasons to win it in consecutive seasons (Kershaw, 2013-14). 
ESPN's Buster Olney thinks Scherzer has already carved out a Hall of Fame career for himself at the age of 33:
Max Scherzer has 10 years in the big leagues and he's won three Cy Young Awards; top 5 five times. https://t.co/85ENXaV5u7 A future Hall of Famer, even if he never threw another pitch.
Per MLB Stats of the Day, the last five seasons have helped put Scherzer on his path to Cooperstown:
.@Max_Scherzer’s last five seasons, though …
5 All-Star appearances 
3 #CyYoung awards
200+ innings each season
240+ strikeouts each season https://t.co/MnlEQK5HQK
Ryan M. Spaeder of the Sporting News showed other pitchers in MLB history with similar numbers to Scherzer:
#Nationals Max Scherzer has 2,149 strikeouts and a 1.119 WHIP in his career. Below is a list of pitchers who best him in both categories.

Pedro Martinez*
Juan Marichal*
Sandy Koufax*
Walter Johnson*
Eddie Plank*
Christy Mathewson*
Rube Waddell*

*Hall of Famer
Michael Ginnitti of Spotrac offered a fun salary comparison between this year's two Cy Young winners:
AL Cy Young winner Corey Kluber has earned $15.4M in 7 seasons with the #Indians. NL Cy Young winner Max Scherzer reeled in $15M in 2017 alone from the #Nationals.
Regardless of the differences in financial compensation for Kluber and Scherzer, both pitchers dominated their respective league better than anyone else and deserve the honor bestowed upon them. 
As offensive numbers exploded throughout MLB in 2017, pitching took on increased importance for all 30 teams. Kluber and Scherzer separated themselves from the pack to be called the best in their league. 
An emerging star like Severino figures to be in the Cy Young race for years to come, while old stalwarts like Kershaw and Sale have plenty of big seasons ahead of them.  



Washington Nationals ace Max Scherzer's reign as the best pitcher in the National League continued in 2017.
Scherzer won his second straight National League Cy Young award Wednesday, beating out fellow finalists Clayton Kershaw of the Los Angeles Dodgers and teammate Stephen Strasburg.
Back-to-back for Max!

For the 2nd straight year, @Max_Scherzer is your @officialBBWAA NL #CyYoung Award winner. https://t.co/PemX3t2tOD
It was the right-hander's third Cy Young of his career after he captured the 2013 American League version of the award as a member of the Detroit Tigers.
The five-time All-Star helped lead Washington to the National League East crown at 97-65 with one of the most impressive seasons of his career. His 2.51 ERA was a career-best mark, as was his sparkling 0.90 WHIP. He also fanned 268 batters and surpassed the 230-strikeout mark for the sixth season in a row in a testament to his incredible consistency.
What's more, his 200.2 innings marked the fifth straight season he threw more than 200 innings as one of the more durable shutdown pitchers in the entire league.
Unfortunately for Scherzer, he wasn't able to parlay his regular-season dominance into consistent postseason success. He allowed five runs, three of which were earned, in 7.1 innings during Washington's National League Division Series loss to the Chicago Cubs, but the Cy Young is a regular-season award.
His strikeouts and remarkable ability to keep runners off the basepaths meant he posted a 6.0 WAR, per FanGraphs, which was even higher than last year's Cy Young-winning 5.6.
Scherzer is 33 years old but has shown no signs of slowing down in recent years. His third Cy Young is another accolade on what has become one of the best pitching resumes of this generation, but he is still striving for that first World Series trophy.
If he continues to pitch as effectively as he has the last couple of seasons for the Nationals and forms a dominant one-two punch with Strasburg, it is not difficult to envision that changing in the near future.   



Cleveland Indians ace Corey Kluber took back his title as the American League's best pitcher during the 2017 season.  
Kluber was named the 2017 American League Cy Young winner Wednesday, marking the second time he's captured the award. The Cleveland ace beat out fellow finalists Chris Sale of the Boston Red Sox and Luis Severino of the New York Yankees.
#CyKluber reigns once again.

@CKluber wins his 2nd @officialBBWAA AL #CyYoung Award. https://t.co/bIlq4Hdiqm
He has been one of the clear-cut best pitchers in all of baseball the last few years, but he posted some notable career-best numbers this season on the way to the recognition.
His 2.25 ERA and sparkling 0.87 WHIP were the best he's ever tallied, and his 18 wins tied his high mark. The 2.25 ERA was the best in the entire American League and gave him an advantage over top competitors.
Kluber, a two-time All-Star, also fanned 265 hitters in 203.2 innings—the fourth straight year he topped the 225-strikeout mark and surpassed 200 innings.
The result was a FanGraphs WAR of 7.3, his best since the 7.4 he posted in 2014 when he won his first Cy Young.
The one downside with Kluber this year was his uncharacteristic 12.79 ERA in 6.1 innings in Cleveland's American League Division Series loss to the New York Yankees, but the Cy Young is a regular-season award.
This recognition caps off a two-year span which saw Kluber help lead the Indians to a World Series appearance in 2016 and the best record (102-60) in the AL in 2017.
The next step for the 31-year-old, who shows no signs of slowing, is landing that elusive championship, and he gives the Indians an excellent opportunity to reach it in the near future if he maintains his place as the top pitcher in the league.



The New York Yankees fired Joe Girardi after they were bounced from the American League Championship Series by the Houston Astros in seven games, but owner Hal Steinbrenner told reporters Wednesday that Girardi likely would have been shown the door even if the franchise had hoisted the Commissioner's Trophy for the 28th time.               
"I'm sure there would have been more pressure," Steinbrenner said of the team hypothetically winning it all, according to ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick. "It would have been maybe a more difficult decision to make. But I would have made it because I felt like that was best for the organization moving forward."
Steinbrenner added that he agreed with the decision to let him go following an ongoing conversation with general manager Brian Cashman that spanned several years. 
"This was not a decision we took lightly and not a decision that had to do with 2-3 weeks. It had to do with 2-3 years and observing things and hearing things," he said. "We felt it was time to move in a different direction."
Steinbrenner didn't elaborate on the issues he had with Girardi's managerial approach, but Cashman disclosed earlier in the month that concerns about his "connectivity and communication level" factored into the front office's decision, according to the Associated Press (via USA Today). 
Now in search of a new skipper, Steinbrenner made it clear the Yankees want a boss who can connect with the organization's young talent pool that features ascendant talents in 2017 AL Rookie of the Year Aaron Judge, Gary Sanchez, Didi Gregorius and Gleyber Torres, among others. 
"I think you have to consider that you have a younger team, and maybe a different type of leadership is needed for a younger team than it is for a veteran team," Steinbrenner said, per Crasnick. "I'm taking that into account and Cash is too."
According to the New York Post's Joel Sherman, the Yankees have already interviewed bench coach Rob Thomson and former Cleveland Indians and Seattle Mariners manager Eric Wedge. They're also reportedly planning to interview San Francisco Giants bench coach Hensley Meulens as well as former Yankees third baseman and current ESPN analyst Aaron Boone. 
Sherman added that Chris Woodward, the Los Angeles Dodgers' third-base coach, is under consideration and "likely" to interview at some point in the near future.       



Miami Marlins part owner Derek Jeter said Wednesday he hasn't spoken to All-Star outfielder Giancarlo Stanton about the trade rumors that surround him.
According to Andy McCullough of the Los Angeles Times, Jeter said, "If there's a reason to call, I'll call."
Per MLB.com, the Philadelphia Phillies, St. Louis Cardinals, San Francisco Giants, Boston Red Sox and Los Angeles Dodgers are among the teams that have expressed interest in trading for Stanton.
On Tuesday, ESPN's Buster Olney reported that some rival executives believe Miami's prospect asking price for Stanton is "shockingly high."
The 28-year-old Stanton is coming off a monster season, as he hit .281 with a career-high 59 home runs, 132 RBI and 123 runs scored.
Stanton was named an All-Star for the fourth time, and he also won the second Silver Slugger Award of his career.
The issue with Stanton is his huge contract, which has $285 million remaining on it until a club option comes into play for 2028, per Spotrac.
Miami may be looking to cut costs under its new ownership, as evidenced by parting ways with or offering lesser roles to longtime front office stalwarts Jack McKeon, Andre Dawson, Jeff Conine and Tony Perez.
The Marlins went just 77-85 in 2017, and they haven't reached the playoffs since winning the World Series in 2003.



The Los Angeles Dodgers have reportedly talked with the Miami Marlins about Giancarlo Stanton, but "there is little momentum to those talks," according to Andy McCullough of the Los Angeles Times.
That follows Mark Feinsand of MLB.com reporting Tuesday that the Dodgers had thrown their hat into the Stanton sweepstakes.
As McCullough added, however, "The Dodgers have a reputation for doing due diligence on basically every elite-level talent who comes onto the market."
To say Stanton has been the consistent subject of trade rumors this offseason would be an understatement.
Jon Morosi of MLB Network noted last week that the Marlins have had trade discussions about Stanton with the St. Louis Cardinals, Boston Red Sox, San Francisco Giants and Philadelphia Phillies. Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, meanwhile, reported the "Giants, Cardinals and Phillies have been the most consistent pursuers of Stanton since last summer."
On Tuesday, however, Chad Jennings of the Boston Herald reported Stanton wouldn't accept a trade to the Red Sox or Cardinals. Stanton has a no-trade clause, giving him final say on any proposed deal.
Evan Drellich of NBC Sports contradicted that report somewhat, writing that Stanton hasn't fully ruled out any teams yet.
Everything in the Stanton situation is complicated. The fact that he has 10 years and $285 million left on his contract means interested teams will likely want the Marlins to absorb some of Stanton's remaining salary, even though the Marlins are attempting to cut payroll this offseason.
Teams will also need the right package of young prospects to land Stanton, who is coming off a 59-homer, 132-RBI season, but Buster Olney of ESPN reported Tuesday that interested teams believe "the Marlins' prospect asking price for Giancarlo Stanton [is] shockingly high and somewhat out of touch with reality."
Marlins part-owner Derek Jeter has publicly acknowledged the complexities of moving Stanton, per McCullough:
Derek Jeter on theoretically trading Giancarlo Stanton, and, also, life: “Everything is complicated.”
Indeed it is.



Shohei Otani is the most exciting player who might not sign an MLB contract this winter.
To be fair, Otani is arguably the most exciting available player, period. The 23-year-old Japanese stud is a legitimate two-way talent, a gifted pitcher and hitter with the tools to improve a big league roster immeasurably and revolutionize the game.
"He has that allure, it grabs your attention," Seattle Mariners general manager Jerry Dipoto said, per USA Today's Bob Nightengale. "When you see a guy hit a ball 500 feet, and throw a ball 100 mph, it's a pretty unique skillset."
That's a contender for understatement of the offseason. It also encapsulates Otani's allure. Comparisons to Babe Ruth have been floated, including by Bleacher Report's Scott Miller:
"Shohei Ohtani is Babe Ruth come back to life a century later in Japan. In leading Hokkaido Nippon Ham to the Japan Series title last October as a starting pitcher and an outfielder/designated hitter, the Fighters won by virtue of both his power right-handed pitching and lethal left-handed swing."
All that said, Otani's path to The Show is a crooked, blurry line.
Under current MLB rules, Otani is eligible to receive no more than the minimum salary of $545,000 in 2017 since he'd be entering the league before his 25th birthday. Most teams can't offer that much because of international signing restrictions. He also wouldn't hit salary arbitration until 2020 at the soonest.
Most observers believe he's got the skills to warrant a nine-figure payday, but that's well off on the horizon.
Meanwhile, the Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters—Otani's employer in Japan—are demanding a $20 million posting fee from whatever franchise inks their burgeoning megastar, per the Associated Press.

According to Joel Sherman of the New York Post, the Major League Baseball Players Association has tentatively agreed to extend the pact that made such machinations possible, even though it reeks of a raw deal for the player.
Tacking a $20 million rider onto any pact Otani signs shifts the calculus. In a flash, he goes from a Black Friday bargain to a ledger-tipping expenditure.
In a way, this makes Otani's decision to play stateside unique and laudable, as Sherman explained:
"Because there is such a strict limit on how much Otani can be paid—and that he is willing to come now rather than wait two years, turn 25 and have no restrictions and (health permitted) perhaps get $200 million or more—indicates what a true recruiting free agency this would be..."
If he comes to the big leagues, it'll be with the team that offers him an ideal location, optimum eyeballs and a chance to win. The New York Yankees are an obvious contender, as are the Los Angeles Dodgers.
Outside the game's two biggest markets, the San Francisco Giants play in a dynamic city with a large Japanese-American population, while the Seattle Mariners have a strong history with Japanese players. Really, it would be easier to list the teams that won't at least kick Otani's tires, which is to say: probably none.
Right now, wherever he lands, the picture is as clear as pine tar. The MLBPA initially fought Otani's posting agreement. For a while, it seemed like his dream of playing stateside might be dashed.
Yes, he owns a 2.52 ERA and 10.3 strikeouts per nine innings in 543 Nippon Professional Baseball innings, posted a .942 OPS as a hitter in 2017 and is just touching the edge of his prime.
He's also a test case for MLB's international signing system and a lightning rod for controversy, through no fault of his own.

"I don't know if it will be possible," Otani said of hitting and pitching in the big leagues, per the AP. "But I want to hear what teams over there say and what kind of situations might be available. Until that process has started, I can't say how it might work out."
He might as well have been speaking about his nascent MLB career. Variables are swirling like late-autumn leaves.
If Otani's primary concern were his bank account, he'd stay in Japan for now, as ESPN's Buster Olney outlined:
"Some current agents say their strong recommendation to Otani would be for him to wait to jump to MLB after the 2019 season, because that’s when he would be eligible to take offers from all teams without restriction."
As Olney correctly added, that would be after Bryce Harper and Manny Machado sign their inevitable mega-contracts and push market rates even higher.
Instead, it seems Otani wants a piece of the action now. He wants to measure himself against the game's best, salary be damned. Put a feather in his cap, even as you scatter uncertainty in his MLB future.
"The surplus value of this player is so great because he is going to be paid such a fraction of what he is actually worth that essentially he can do whatever he wants and it would still be a huge benefit," an unnamed executive told Sherman.
Even with that hefty posting fee, Otani is the winter's most exciting player. As we wait for the procedural and monetary cleats to drop, he's also its most enigmatic.
      
All statistics courtesy of Baseball Reference.



As MLB's hot stove ignites, trade rumors will crackle. Inevitably, many will involve highly rated prospects.
That's usually the only way to swing a seismic swap: You've got to give something to get something. In some cases, however, rising stars should be placed on the no-trade list.
Before the dealing begins, let's examine all 30 teams' most untouchable prospect, keeping in mind that the degree of untouchability will vary depending on the depth of the farm system in question and the needs of each big league club.
Also, to be clear: Everyone is technically tradable given a lopsided enough offer. However talented your blue-chipper may be, if Los Angeles Angels GM Billy Eppler calls offering Mike Trout and the deed to Angel Stadium, you squeeze the trigger.

Houston Astros: RHP Forrest Whitley
A 6'7" right-hander taken with the 17th overall pick in 2016, Forest Whitley advanced as high as Double-A Corpus Christi in 2017 and posted a 2.83 ERA with 13.9 strikeouts per nine innings overall.
The 20-year-old can touch the high 90s with his fastball and complements it with a power curveball and emerging changeup. He's at least another year from making an impact in the big leagues, but he's a talent the defending champions should nurture behind the trio of Dallas Keuchel, Justin Verlander and Lance McCullers Jr.
            
Los Angeles Angels: OF Jo Adell
The Los Angeles Angels' farm system is mostly barren, but Jo Adell has the tools be special. 
The 18-year-old went 10th overall to the Halos in 2017 and slashed .325/.376/.532 in 49 rookie league games. He's raw and strikeout prone but has a plus hit tool along with an impressive arm and standout athleticism. 
              
Oakland Athletics: LHP A.J. Puk
The Oakland A's restocked their farm system at the 2017 trade deadline, but their most untouchable piece has been around since they drafted him in 2016.
That would be left-hander A.J. Puk, who struck out 13.2 per nine in 125 innings between High-A and Double-A. He has a high-90s fastball and bat-missing slider that give him the profile of a top-shelf MLB starter.
On a rebuilding Oakland club, the 22-year-old could make his big league debut in 2018 and has the stuff to stick at the highest level.
               
Seattle Mariners: OF Kyle Lewis
A nasty knee injury that required surgery in 2016 bumped Kyle Lewis down some prospect radars, but the 22-year-old returned to action in June and flashed the tools that make him a potential future star.
Lewis shows plus power that befits his 6'4", 210-pound frame and has enough range to play center field, though he may profile better as a corner outfielder.
Either way, he's easily the best prospect in a middling Seattle Mariners system.
              
Texas Rangers: 2B Willie Calhoun
The central piece in the trade that sent Yu Darvish to the Los Angeles Dodgers in July, Willie Calhoun slugged 31 home runs in 128 games at Triple-A.
Even accounting for the hitter-friendly nature of the Pacific Coast League, that's an impressive total, especially for a second baseman.
Calhoun got a 13-game audition with the Texas Rangers in 2017 and should feature prominently in their plans. One note: He may see more innings in the outfield—where he played in his brief time with the Rangers—with Rougned Odor ensconced at second.

Chicago White Sox: RHP Michael Kopech
If you haven't heard the legend of Michael Kopech and his 107 mph fastball, read this entertaining profile by Bleacher Report's Scott Miller.
The 21-year-old won't throw that hard in the majors. But after posting a 2.88 ERA with 172 strikeouts in 134.1 innings between Double-A and Triple-A, he'll get a chance to try.
The Chicago White Sox are bursting with prospects. Kopech might have the highest ceiling of them all.
            
Cleveland Indians: C Francisco Mejia
After hitting .297 with an .835 OPS in 92 games at Double-A, Francisco Mejia got a taste of the big leagues with the Cleveland Indians. He maintained his prospect status and enters 2018 as a potential franchise player at a premium position.
Yan Gomes (.232 average, .708 OPS) and Roberto Perez (.207 average, .664 OPS) provided little offense behind the dish for the Tribe. Mejia could remedy that.
                 
Detroit Tigers: RHP Franklin Perez
Acquired from the Astros as part of the Justin Verlander trade, Franklin Perez is a 19-year-old stud with the potential to front the Detroit Tigers rotation.
The young Venezuelan augments a mid-90s fastball with a plus curveball and changeup, and a slider that could make him a four-pitch hurler. With that arsenal, he posted a 3.02 ERA and held opponents to a .220 average in 86.1 innings between High-A and Double-A.
              
Kanas City Royals: 1B Nick Pratto
The Kansas City Royals eschewed a rebuild in 2017 and have a less than stellar system to show for it. If Eric Hosmer bolts via free agency, however, the club could have his heir apparent in first baseman Nick Pratto.
The 19-year-old lefty swinger went 14th overall in 2017 after flashing eye-opening on-base abilities and stellar defense during his prep career. It's optimistic at this stage, but a Joey Votto comp isn't outrageous. Plus, he delivered a game-winning hit in the 2011 Little League World Series.  
               
Minnesota Twins: SS Royce Lewis
The No. 1 overall pick in 2017, Royce Lewis hit .279 with a .381 on-base percentage and 18 stolen bases in 54 games between the rookie league and Single-A.
The 18-year-old possesses game-changing speed and athleticism, and has the skills to join MLB's burgeoning shortstop revolution for the emerging Twinkies. 

Baltimore Orioles: C Chance Sisco
After slashing .320/.406/.422 in 112 games at Double-A in 2016, Chance Sisco spent most of 2017 at Triple-A and got a 10-game look-see with the Baltimore Orioles.
The 22-year-old rates a tick behind Mejia among the game's can't-miss catching prospects, especially defensively, but could become a legitimate big league backstop in the near term. With incumbent Welington Castillo a free agent, that's particularly crucial for the O's. 
               
Boston Red Sox: 1B Sam Travis
The Boston Red Sox are probably going to sign a first baseman this winter, but they should also hang on to Sam Travis as a possible long-term solution at the position.
The 24-year-old hit .263 in 33 games with Boston in 2017 yet maintained his prospect status. He's a solid contact hitter with untapped power potential and good hands, a combination that could earn him an everyday job in 2018 if the Sox are unsuccessful on the free-agent market.
             
New York Yankees: SS Gleyber Torres
With Didi Gregorius signed through 2020, the New York Yankees don't technically need a shortstop. Gleyber Torres will challenge that notion.
The 20-year-old slashed .287/.383/.480 in 55 games between Double-A and Triple-A in 2017 while displaying excellent defense before an elbow injury derailed his season. 
Now, he's on the mend and poised to join the up-and-coming Yankees in 2018.
"Next year, we want him and everyone else to push to get up here, whether as an injury fill-in or to take the job over from somebody," general manager Brian Cashman said, per Dan Martin and George A. King III of the New York Post.
              
Tampa Bay Rays: RHP Brent Honeywell
A sinking fastball, plus changeup and curveball, and signature screwball give Brent Honeywell an enviable set of weapons. The 22-year-old righty used them to post a 13-9 record with 172 strikeouts in 136.2 innings between Double-A and Triple-A and knock on the door of an MLB debut.
It'll happen in 2018 with the Tampa Bay Rays, where Honeywell can join a rich succession of homegrown hurlers.
Yeah, the Rays have depth in the rotation, but Jake Odorizzi and Chris Archer are trade candidates, other top prospects such as Jose De Leon are less locked in and Honeywell is primed to assume a predominant role.
           
Toronto Blue Jays: INF Vladimir Guerrero Jr.
Vladimir Guerrero Jr. backed up his famous name with a strong season in 2017, hitting .323 with a .910 OPS between Single-A and High-A.
The 18-year-old flashed eye-opening bat speed and notable plate discipline, as he drew 76 walks next to 62 strikeouts. 
With the final year of Josh Donaldson's contract looming, Guerrero profiles as the Jays' third baseman of tomorrow, though a move to first base or the outfield is possible. 

Arizona Diamondbacks: RHP Jon Duplantier
The Arizona Diamondbacks' best prospect, Pavin Smith, plays first base, a position occupied at the big league level by a guy named Paul Goldschmidt. That makes right-hander Jon Duplantier the most untouchable prospect in a ho-hum MiLB system.
The 23-year-old struggled with a shoulder injury in college but posted a 1.39 ERA between Single-A and High-A in 2017 while striking out 165 in 136 innings.
His mid-90s fastball, power curve and competent changeup give him the weapons to be a middle-of-the-rotation starter with the possibility for even more.
                        
Colorado Rockies: SS Brendan Rodgers
After a breakout rookie season in 2016, Colorado Rockies shortstop Trevor Story hit .239 with a pedestrian .765 OPS last year.
That leaves the door wide open for Brendan Rodgers, who hit .336 with a .940 OPS between High-A and Double-A while playing exemplary defense. The third overall pick in the 2015 draft appears on the fast track to The Show. 
           
Los Angeles Dodgers: OF Alex Verdugo
After getting within a win of their first championship since 1988, the Los Angeles Dodgers will do what it takes to hoist a Commissioner's Trophy in 2018. If that means trading MiLB assets, so be it.
That said, they should strongly consider hanging on to outfielder Alex Verdugo, who slashed .314/.389/.436 at Triple-A and could slot into a muddled outfield depth chart in 2018.
Verdugo needs to work on his power, but he's a polished hitter with command of the strike zone and a strong opposite-field approach. 
             
San Diego Padres: LHP MacKenzie Gore
The third overall pick in the 2017 amateur draft, MacKenzie Gore posted a 1.27 ERA with 34 strikeouts in 21.1 innings in his rookie league debut.
The 18-year-old flashed increased velocity on his fastball along with a head-turning curveball, hard slider and occasionally excellent changeup.
For the rebuilding San Diego Padres, he's a future ace worth banking on.
            
San Francisco Giants: OF/1B Chris Shaw
The San Francisco Giants hit the fewest home runs in baseball in 2017. Chris Shaw clubbed 24 homers in 125 games between Double-A and Triple-A.
Yes, he's blocked at first base by the combination of Brandon Belt and Buster Posey, who will need more time off from catching.
He's also the only legitimate slugger in a thin, largely punchless San Francisco farm system.

Chicago Cubs: RHP Jose Albertos
The Cubs' once-vaunted system has been decimated by trades and call-ups. There's talent remaining, however, highlighted by 19-year-old right-hander Jose Albertos.
Signed out of Mexico in 2015, Albertos posted a 3.14 ERA with 48 strikeouts in 43 pro innings last season and held opponents to a .184 average. His fastball already hits the high 90s, and his changeup might be his best offering.
              
Cincinnati Reds: RHP Hunter Greene
At age 18, Hunter Greene is already something of a legend. Now, after the Cincinnati Reds took him second overall in 2017, he's on pace to bring that legend to the Great American Ball Park.
The Reds apparently have Greene pegged as a pitcher, though he can also swing the bat. No matter what role he fills, he's a headline-grabbing star in the making for a franchise that could use some glitz and glam.
                     
Milwaukee Brewers: OF Lewis Brinson
The Milwaukee Brewers blossomed ahead of schedule in 2017 and challenged Chicago for the National League Central crown. While they came up short, the future is bright thanks to a cadre of up-and-comers, including outfielder Lewis Brinson.
In 76 games at Triple-A, Brinson hit .331 with a .962 OPS before he sipped his cup of coffee with the Brew Crew. A five-tool talent with 30/30 capabilities, the 23-year-old is a name to follow.
            
Pittsburgh Pirates: OF Austin Meadows
After another sub-.500 finish (74-88), the Pittsburgh Pirates may jettison MLB pieces, including former NL MVP Andrew McCutchen.
That would open an outfield spot for 22-year-old Austin Meadows, who has battled injuries but shown superlative plate discipline and above-average defense in his minor league tenure. 
             
St. Louis Cardinals: RHP Alex Reyes
Alex Reyes wouldn't be on this list were it not for Tommy John surgery, which sabotaged his 2017 season and kept his prospect status intact.
Now, the 23-year-old has a chance to emerge as the ace of the St. Louis Cardinals staff, with apologies to Carlos Martinez.
As Jose de Jesus Ortiz of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch correctly argued, "[Executive John] Mozeliak and general manager Michael Girsch must make Reyes untouchable so that he can eventually sit at the front of the rotation behind ace Martinez and ahead of Luke Weaver, Michael Wacha and Adam Wainwright."

Atlanta Braves: OF Ronald Acuna
Ronald Acuna began 2017 in High-A and advanced to Triple-A, where he hit .344 with a .940 OPS in 54 games.
The 19-year-old has genuine five-tool potential for an Atlanta Braves squad that has already graduated middle infielders Dansby Swanson and Ozzie Albies and is looking to rebuild and generate excitement in its shiny new stadium.
             
Philadelphia Phillies: SS J.P. Crawford
The Philadelphia Phillies lost 90 games in 2017 but are hoping to contend sooner than later.
That goal would be aided tremendously by the continued development of shortstop J.P. Crawford, who made his MLB debut last season and is trying to reclaim his top-prospect status.
The 16th overall pick in 2013, Crawford's path to the big leagues has been bumpy. The 22-year-old has the tools to be special, however, and the Phils should afford him every opportunity to prove he can be.
             
Miami Marlins: LHP Braxton Garrett
The seventh pick in the 2016 draft, Braxton Garrett underwent Tommy John surgery in June. That's the bad news.
The good news is Garrett throws an eye-popping curveball and mid-90s fastball that could make the 20-year-old an ace, provided he returns healthy.
For the cost-cutting Miami Marlins, he's a lottery ticket to stash.
              
New York Mets: LHP David Peterson
The New York Mets system isn't overflowing with talent, but David Peterson could join the ranks of homegrown, mound-straddling studs in Queens.
The 6'6" left-hander has a stout fastball-slider combo and, after going to New York with the 20th pick in 2017, displayed promise in a brief pro debut.
                             
Washington Nationals: OF Victor Robles
The 2018 season may well be Bryce Harper's last in a Washington Nationals uniform. If it is, the Nats could have Harper's heir apparent in Victor Robles.
The 20-year-old probably can't match Harper in either the power or hair-flipping departments, but he hit .300 with an .875 OPS and 27 stolen bases in 114 minor league games, then smacked a double and two triples in a 13-game MLB showcase.
A strong showing in the Arizona Fall League is only boosting Robles' stock—and his chances of making waves in the nation's capital. 
          
All statistics courtesy of MLB.com and Baseball Reference.



The New York Mets could reportedly soon enter the market for two-way Japanese talent Shohei Otani.
According to Newsday's Marc Carig and David Lennon, "the Mets have not ruled out making a pitch" to Otani since they would be able to afford him under Major League Baseball's new international compensation system, which states "his signing bonus must come from a team's international bonus pool, which effectively caps his compensation to $3.5 million on top of a minor-league deal."
However, the team that ultimately lands Otani will have to pay the Nippon Hokkaido-Ham Fighters his posting fee, which is expected to clock in at the maximum of $20 million.
Citing league sources, WEEI's Rob Bradford reported Monday the Boston Red Sox "appear to be primed to be among the teams submitting the $20 million posting fee when clearance is given to start that process."
The New York Yankees also appear to have interest in the 23-year-old because of his pitching prowess and power-packed swing.
"Generally, if you have someone capable of doing something like that, it gives you more roster flexibility and roster choices," general manager Brian Cashman said Monday, per the New York Daily News' Mike Mazzeo. "It's kind of like having a 26th man when everyone else is playing with 25, just because of the duality of that particular player."
According to documents obtained by the Associated Press (via USA Today), the Yankees ($3.25 million), Texas Rangers ($3.53 million), and Minnesota Twins ($3.24 million) can offer Otani the most lucrative signing bonuses.
On the other end of the spectrum, the Mets can offer $105,000, while the Red Sox have $462,000 at their disposal.
Last season with the Nippon-Ham Fighters, the left-handed slugger Otani slashed .332/.403/.540 with eight home runs and 31 RBI in 231 plate appearances.
On the mound, Otani went 3-2 with a 3.20 ERA, 1.263 WHIP, 29 strikeouts and 19 walks over 25.1 innings.
Looking ahead, Otani said he hopes to discuss the possibility of operating as a two-way player once he arrives in the states.
"I don't know if I'll be given the chance to be able to do it, so first of all, I'll have to listen to what they say," he said, per MLB.com's Oliver Macklin. "You can't go after something like that unless you're in the right circumstance. It's not just about what I want to do."



Outfielder J.D. Martinez reportedly has his eye on a serious chunk of change in free agency. 
On Tuesday, Bob Nightengale of USA Today reported Martinez is asking for a seven-year, $210 million contract at the general manager meetings. Martinez played for the Detroit Tigers and Arizona Diamondbacks during the 2017 campaign and finished with a slash line of .303/.376/.690 with 45 home runs and 104 RBI.
There is plenty to justify Martinez's asking price, not the least of which is the fact he is coming off such an impressive season. While the 45 long balls marked a career high, it was the fourth straight year he topped 20 homers. He hit 38 while slashing .282/.344/.535 on his way to a Silver Slugger in 2015.
He is also only 30 years old and figures to continue producing at a high level for a number of seasons in the middle of his prime.
It is fair to worry about Martinez's defense, especially if teams are going to commit so much money to him this offseason. While he was still lackluster in 2017, he made significant strides from the prior year and tallied minus-five total defensive runs saved above average after posting a minus-22 in 2016, per FanGraphs.
Martinez also has an agent working in his favor who isn't afraid to make head-turning comparisons on behalf of his client, as Jon Morosi of MLB Network shared:
Scott Boras told me if J.D. Martinez’s free agency were a major motion picture, it would be called “King Kong of Slug.” His explanation: Martinez’s .690 slugging percentage was more than 50 points higher than anyone else in @MLB this year.
The question now is whether a team will acquiesce to Martinez's asking price, but whichever one does sign him will land one of the best offensive players in the league.



Arizona Diamondbacks manager Torey Lovullo and Minnesota Twins manager Paul Molitor oversaw two of MLB's biggest turnarounds. On Tuesday night, the Baseball Writers' Association of America rewarded them with Manager of the Year honors in the their respective leagues. 
Molitor edged out Cleveland Indians manager Terry Francona in the American League, with 18 first-place votes to Francona's 11. The National League voting was a rout, as Lovullo collected 18 of the 30 first-place votes with no one else grabbing more than five.
Below are the full results from both leagues.  
          
American League Voting
1. Paul Molitor (112 points)
2. Terry Francona (90 points)
3. A.J. Hinch, Houston Astros (56 points)
4. Joe Girardi, New York Yankees (12 points)
     
National League Voting
1. Torey Lovullo, Arizona Diamondbacks (111 points)
2. Dave Roberts, Los Angeles Dodgers (55 points)
3. Bud Black, Colorado Rockies (43 points)
4. Craig Counsell, Milwaukee Brewers (33 points)
5. Dusty Baker, Washington Nationals (25 points)
6. Joe Maddon, Chicago Cubs (three points)
     
At 59-103, the Twins were the worst team in baseball in 2016. The year was a massive disappointment after the team showed some promise in 2015.
This past season, the Twins' potential started coming good as Minnesota won 85 games and reached the American League wild-card game, which it lost 8-4 to the New York Yankees. By doing so, the Twins made history, according to ESPN Stats & Info:
Paul Molitor named AL Manager of the Year.

@Twins became the 1st team in MLB history to go from 100 losses to the playoffs the next year. https://t.co/DvJUXcsYNx
Molitor also joins select company, per MLB.com's Andrew Simon:
Made the HOF as a player + won a Manager of the Year Award:

Frank Robinson
Paul Molitor
MLB.com's Richard Justice tweeted how much has changed for Molitor over the last six months:
Paul Molitor is AL Manager of the Year for leading the Twins to a 26-game improvement and first postseason appearance since 2010. Began the season as a lame-duck skipper. Now has a tremendous young core going forward.
"It's humbling really," Molitor said of winning Manager of the Year during an interview on MLB Network. "... An award like this is certainly a reflection of the organization, the work that my coaches and players put in."
There's no reason not to expect more from Molitor and the Twins in 2018. Byron Buxton, Miguel Sano, Jorge Polanco, Eddie Rosario and Max Kepler are all in their mid-20s and entering their prime playing years.
Jose Berrios also looked much more like a top-end starting pitcher after a disastrous rookie season in which he had an 8.02 ERA in 14 starts. He went 14-8 with a 3.89 ERA in 26 appearances in 2017.
Baseball Prospectus' Aaron Gleeman noted the connection between the two Manager of the Year winners:
During the Twins' managerial search three years ago, Paul Molitor got the job and Torey Lovullo finished runner-up. Today they were named AL and NL Manager of the Year.
The Diamondbacks fired Chip Hale after going 69-93 in 2016. Kirk Gibson's tenure ended in similarly disappointing fashion. In the five seasons after winning 94 games and reaching the National League Division Series in 2011, the Diamondbacks registered an average of nearly 75 games.
In his Lovullo's first year at the helm, the Diamondbacks went 93-69 and defeated the Colorado Rockies in the National League wild-card game before falling to the Los Angeles Dodgers in the NLDS.
As ESPN Stats & Info noted, Arizona experienced the most improvement in the National League:
Torey Lovullo is the 3rd manager in @Dbacks history to win Manager of the Year. 

Their 24-win improvement from 2016 to 2017 (69 to 93) was the largest in the NL. https://t.co/8wkUXSW65Z
MLB.com's Anthony Castrovince followed Lovullo's managerial career through the minors and wasn't surprised to see him enjoy so much success in 2017:
Been in the Torey Lovullo Fan Club since he was skipper at Class A Kinston. (I also saw that band you like before they hit it big.) Congrats to Torey.
"It speaks for itself when you get separated from a field like I did," Lovullo said of his win in an interview on MLB Network. "There's a lot of great candidates."
Lovullo is the third Diamondbacks manager to receive the honor. Gibson was Manager of the Year in 2011, and Bob Melvin earned the distinction in 2007.
Dodgers manager Dave Roberts and Rockies manager Bud Black were the other two NL finalists. Both watched the award announcement at Roberts' home, so they at least had company to help rebound from failing to collect the Manager of the Year award.
Too blessed to be stressed. 😄 https://t.co/YbRIsQ1v0j
The fact Lovullo, Roberts and Black all managed in the National League West illustrates the division's overall strength. The race for the West should be among the most entertaining division battles in 2018.
The same goes for the American League Central. Francona finished runner-up to Molitor despite the Indians winning 102 games and reeling off a historic 22-game winning streak.
In 2016, Cleveland claimed the Central title by eight games over the Detroit Tigers and followed up by taking the division by 17 games over the Twins. Given the strides made by Minnesota, the Indians should have some more competition in 2018.



The Minnesota Twins' Paul Molitor was announced Tuesday as the winner of the 2017 American League Manager of the Year Award. 
The Baseball Writers Association of America confirmed Molitor's win after he led the Twins to an 85-77 record and an unexpected berth in the MLB playoffs.
Molitor took home 18 of a possible 30 first-place votes, with the Cleveland Indians' Terry Francona raking in 11. The Houston Astros' A.J. Hinch was the only other skipper to secure a first-place vote. 
Minnesota entered the year as a virtual afterthought after losing 103 games in 2016. Joe Osborne of OddsShark noted they were listed at 125-1 odds to win the World Series in late March, which was the sixth-worst mark in all of baseball.
The Twins far exceeded those expectations in a year where Molitor was likely managing to keep his job in the final year of his three-year contract.
The 61-year-old Saint Paul native talked about the difficulty of navigating his lame-duck status after signing a three-year extension in October, per Jon Krawczynski of the Associated Press.
"It's not a totally comfortable thing," Molitor said. "But I think for the most part, staying task-focused ... obviously having a competitive season with a wild card appearance, helped keep that focus consistent without being too distracted by it. I tried to put it on the back burner as best as I could."
Offensively, Minnesota received typically strong seasons from Brian Dozier and Joe Mauer, a breakout year from Eddie Rosario and Byron Buxton finally showed signs of living up to the hype as a top prospect as the club ranked seventh in runs scored.
Although the pitching staff wasn't quite as strong, finishing 19th in ERA, the Twins made up for it with strong defense. Their .987 fielding percentage was tied for the second-best mark in the league.
The result was the team's first postseason berth since 2010. It had gone 142-182 in the first two years under the guidance of the Baseball Hall of Fame infielder, who ended his playing career as a member of the Twins in 1998.
"He's extremely baseball smart," Twins catcher Chris Gimenez told reporters. "He's in the Hall of Fame for a reason. Yeah, he was a great player, but you have to think the game to do what he did on the field. I see it constantly. He's very much ahead of the game. Sometimes it hasn't worked out necessarily the way you draw it up, but I think for the most part I'd take him any day of the week."
The Twins' season came to a close with a loss to the New York Yankees in the Wild Card Game.
Nevertheless, Molitor now has an AL Manager of the Year Award to add to a list of accomplishments that already features seven All-Star Game selections, four Silver Slugger Awards and a World Series MVP trophy. It's hard to argue with the selection given the Twins' strong bounce-back campaign.



Torey Lovullo's first season with the Arizona Diamondbacks resulted in him being named 2017 National League Manager of the Year.
According to the Baseball Writers' Association of America, Lovullo beat out Los Angeles Dodgers skipper Dave Roberts and the Colorado Rockies' Bud Black for the honor.
Lovullo captured 18 of a possible 30 first-place votes.
After three consecutive losing seasons, including a 69-93 record in 2016, expectations were low for the Diamondbacks at the start of 2017.
Lovullo, who spent the previous six seasons as a coach for the Toronto Blue Jays and Boston Red Sox, took the opportunity and ran with it, leading the team to a 93-69 record and its first playoff appearance since 2011.
Sports Illustrated noted in September some of the changes Lovullo and general manager Mike Hazen implemented to spark Arizona's 24-win turnaround:
"They non-tendered bat-first catcher Welington Castillo, replaced him with defense-first catchers Chris Iannetta and Jeff Mathis, hired Dan Haren to help with game-planning pitching strategies and traded shortstop Jean Segura for starting pitcher Taijuan Walker. The emphasis on run prevention earned Arizona a wild-card home game and an improvement of at least 21 wins."
Though the Dodgers' success overshadowed almost everything else that happened in the NL last season, the Diamondbacks finished with the third-best record in the league.
Arizona advanced to the National League Division Series against Los Angeles by defeating Colorado in the Wild Card Game. It was its first postseason win since Game 4 of the 2011 NLDS against the Milwaukee Brewers.
Lovullo's ability to incorporate analytics with his locker-room skills made him an instant success. He built a solid foundation in his first year and seems to have the Diamondbacks on track to compete for division titles and the World Series for the foreseeable future.



The defending National League champions are reportedly "in the mix" to land Miami Marlins slugger Giancarlo Stanton.
Mark Feinsand of MLB.com reported the news Tuesday, citing a source who said the Los Angeles Dodgers are interested in trading for him.      
His report comes after Chad Jennings of the Boston Herald reported Stanton wouldn't accept a trade to the St. Louis Cardinals or Boston Red Sox.
Stanton has a full no-trade clause, which is one of the factors impacting a potential swap.
In October, Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald reported the Marlins' new ownership—which includes former New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter—is looking to trim the team's payroll from last season's $115 million to close to $90 million.
Trading Stanton would help Miami immensely in the payroll department, but it apparently isn't looking to simply give him away for the financial relief.
Buster Olney of ESPN noted, "Some rival execs view the Marlins' prospect asking price for Giancarlo Stanton as shockingly high and somewhat out of touch with reality and not discounted nearly enough given the whopping $295 million he's owed (with the forthcoming out clause after the 2020 season)."
Stanton will be expensive for the Dodgers or any other pursuers, but they will also land a 28-year-old power hitter who drilled a league-leading 59 home runs with 132 RBI and a slash line of .281/.376/.631 in 2017.
Just because the Dodgers are reportedly in the mix, though, doesn't guarantee he will be playing in Los Angeles next season. Andy McCullough of the Los Angeles Times pointed out "there is a significant gap between the Dodgers engaging in preliminary discussions with Miami and the Dodgers acquiring Giancarlo Stanton."
If they were to trade for him, they could dip into a farm system Jim Callis of MLB.com noted was the sixth-best group in all of baseball before the 2017 campaign and the 10th-best in a midseason update.



Miami Marlins slugger Giancarlo Stanton reportedly will not accept a trade to the Boston Red Sox or St. Louis Cardinals, according to Chad Jennings of the Boston Herald.
Stanton has a no-trade clause as a part of his contract, giving him the ability to accept or decline any deals the Marlins agree to.
However, Evan Drellich of NBC Sports cited a source who said Stanton hasn't completely ruled out the Red Sox or any other team.
Marlins president of baseball operations Michael Hill addressed the no-trade clause Tuesday and acknowledged he had an idea of Stanton's preferences, per Derrick Goold of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch:
"I do have a sense, and we’ll keep that internally. At the appropriate time we’ll discuss what we need to discuss. ... With the whole trade process, there are rumors out there—and there have been a lot of them—I didn't speak to the media until last week but he was traded 15 million different places. We work internally. We do what we need to do, and if we need to present him with something, we will do so at the appropriate time."
The fact Stanton can revoke any deal is a complicating factor in an already complex situation. Stanton also has at least 10 years and $295 million remaining on his contract, meaning any team that trades for him may want the Marlins to absorb some of that cost.
On the other hand, Stanton is coming off an MVP-level season that saw him hit .281 with 59 homers, 132 RBI and 123 runs. The Marlins won't want to give away their superstar on the cheap—huge contract or not.
Thus, it isn't surprising that it already appears there is a disconnect between the Marlins and interested teams when it comes to the potential compensation for Stanton.
Buster Olney of ESPN noted, "Some rival execs view the Marlins' prospect asking price for Giancarlo Stanton as shockingly high and somewhat out of touch with reality, and not discounted nearly enough given the whopping $295 million he's owed (with the forthcoming out clause after the 2020 season)."
And given that the Marlins want to cut their payroll back to $90 million, they won't be interested in getting anything other than prospects for Stanton. That could leave a team like the Red Sox out in the cold anyway.
As Jennings wrote, "Trading for Chris Sale, Craig Kimbrel, Drew Pomeranz and Tyler Thornburg has left the minor league system relatively bare, and their best remaining trade chips are Rafael Devers and Andrew Benintendi, two players the ballclub would like to keep in the lineup."
The Cardinals have more prospects to work with, including a stable of young outfielders. But it's a moot point if Stanton isn't willing to play in St. Louis.



The 2018 MLB free-agent class certainly does not boast the same strength as the 2019 group, where players like Bryce Harper and Manny Machado are slated to hit the market. Yet, plenty of solid contributors are still available this winter.
Rumors are starting to circulate about where some of the bigger names could be heading. Notable outfielders known for tremendous speed have been in the news as of late, and they could be the first dominos to fall in free agency.
Let us take a look at the latest buzz on surrounding such free agents and what teams have been connected to them.
        
Billy Hamilton on the Move?
Despite generally being one of the elite franchises of the past decade thanks to three World Series titles, the San Francisco Giants endured a dreadful 64-98 campaign last season. Unsurprisingly, they are looking for a lot of help this offseason.
One name to recently surface is Cincinnati Reds outfielder Billy Hamilton, who is drawing interest from the Giants, per MLB Network's Jon Morosi on Monday. Hamilton is one of several targets for San Francisco, who Morosi says are making a concerted effort to improve defensively in the outfield.
Hamilton would fit that bill, as his electric speed and fantastic arm have made him one of the most exciting center fielders. In addition to making highlight-reel catches over the years like the one below, he finished third among outfielders with 13 assists and second in double-plays started with four while boasting a 99.1 fielding percentage last season, per FanGraphs. 
Offensively, Hamilton is a dangerous leadoff man should he reach base. He has posted at least 50 stolen bases in each of the last four seasons, including a career-high 59 steals in 2017. However, he has never hit above .260 in his career, and his on-base percentage has hovered around .300 during that time.
Hamilton is a pending free agent with arbitration eligibility, but the Reds still control his rights. Whether they move him depends largely on Cincinnati's value of him financially.
If the Reds are not comfortable handing Hamilton a hefty raise from the $2.65 million he made last season, which he is certainly due for, then a trade would make sense. With the second-highest payroll in baseball, the Giants can accommodate Hamilton as a free agent.
Assuming this reported interest is real, look for the Reds to save some money by sending off Hamilton to be signed elsewhere while still getting a prospect and some cash back in return.
       
Royals Already Thinking Replacements?
The core of the Kansas City Royals' recent championships runs looks destined to split this winter, as Lorenzo Cain, Eric Hosmer and Mike Moustakas are all heading for free agency. 
Per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, the Royals are trying to bring back Hosmer and Moustakas, but they apparently have settled on letting Cain walk. This would leave a huge hole in the team's outfield, but there are reportedly replacements on the radar.
A recent World Series winner is one name to recently pop up, according to Morosi:
Cameron Maybin among options #Royals considering for center field, sources say. @MLBNetwork @MLB
Cameron Maybin is talented player who has struggled with consistency at times. In addition to having great range in the outfield, Maybin is an average hitter who has hit over .260 three times in his career. He has shown flashes of being a top-end leadoff man, as he hit .315 in over 90 games in 2016, but he batted .228 last season, including .186 after being traded to the Houston Astros late in the summer.
This makes Maybin a high-reward player, but he does carry plenty of risk. He is coming off a five-year deal that paid him $5 million annually. The same annual salary for fewer years would be comfortable for the Royals, especially if they are going to try to keep up with the bidding for Hosmer and Moustakas.
However, another team could be in a better position financially to bid more for Maybin's upside, which could throw a wrench in Kansas City's plans. While Maybin is definitely no Cain, he is still a serviceable player who the Royals could regularly play near the bottom of the lineup or occasionally leading off. 
This team can still compete for a playoff position, especially by keeping its two prized infielders. Making a play for Maybin makes sense to stay in American League Central contention.

       
Reunion Unlikely for Ichiro
Along with guys like Ken Griffey Jr. and Edgar Martinez, Ichiro Suzuki is one of the most iconic Seattle Mariners of all time.
With the 44-year-old Suzuki now a free agent and still looking to play, could Seattle bring him back to possibly close out his career? That seems unlikely, at least according to the latest chatter around the league.
Per MLB.com's Greg Johns, Mariners general manager Jerry Dipoto is looking for outfield help, but the team does not view Suzuki as a viable option. The Mariners are looking to get younger, which certainly does not help Suzuki's case.
Suzuki has not hit at least .300 since 2010, but his on-base percentage has been above .300 since that time. While Suzuki hit .291 in 2016, his average dipped back to the .255 it has hovered around since 2012. 
It is also unclear if Suzuki would be willing to go back to Seattle, as the only recent word of his intentions is that his camp reached out to the Giants, per Susan Slusser of the San Francisco Chronicle. 
A player like Suzuki is likely to wait very long before finding a contract, as guys his age are not primary options for clubs. Rather, teams will approach him after most of the roster is filled out and in need of a reserve player. 
Suzuki can still contribute to an MLB team, and it would make more sense for him to join a contending team in need a fourth outfielder, such as the Houston Astros. Expect Suzuki to play in his 18th season, but not for Seattle.
        
Statistics are courtesy of Baseball Reference. Contract information is courtesy of Spotrac.



ESPN's Buster Olney reported Tuesday that some rival executives believe the Miami Marlins' prospect asking price for All-Star outfielder Giancarlo Stanton is "shockingly high."
Olney added that those same execs feel the asking price is "somewhat out of touch with reality" given Stanton's monstrous contract.
According to MLB.com, the Philadelphia Phillies, St. Louis Cardinals, San Francisco Giants and Boston Red Sox are among the teams interested in acquiring Stanton.
Stanton trade talk has intensified since the end of the 2017 season, as the Marlins are under new ownership. Included among that group is part owner and legendary New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter.
Per Spotrac, Stanton has 10 years and $285 million remaining on his contract before a club option kicks in for 2028.
Stanton does have a player option for 2021 and beyond, although it is unlikely he would opt out of such a lucrative contract.
While Stanton is one of the best players in baseball, he will be 38 years old in 2027 and will make $25 million in what figures to be the final year of his deal.
Stanton is 28 and coming off his best MLB season by far. In addition to hitting .281, Stanton set career highs with 59 home runs, 132 RBI and 123 runs scored, making him a leading National League MVP candidate.
Miami has struggled to surround him with top-tier talent, however, resulting in the Marlins' 77-85 record last season.



The Boston Red Sox announced Tuesday that club legend and Baseball Hall of Famer Bobby Doerr died at the age of 99.
According to MLB.com's Ian Browne, Doerr was the oldest living Hall of Famer and former Red Sox player prior to his death.
Doerr spent his entire 14-year career with the Red Sox from 1937 through 1951, with the exception of 1945 when he served in World War II.
Playing only second base, Doerr was a .288 career hitter with 223 home runs, 1,247 RBI, 1,094 runs scored and 2,042 hits.
He was named an All-Star on nine occasions, including his penultimate season in 1950 when he hit .294 and reached career highs with 27 homers and 120 RBI.
Although he never won a World Series, Doerr hit .409 in the 1946 Fall Classic, which the St. Louis Cardinals won in seven games.
Following his playing career, Doerr served as a scout and eventually a first base coach for the Red Sox before he became the expansion Toronto Blue Jays' hitting coach in 1977, a position he stayed at until 1981.
Despite falling short of championship glory as a player, Doerr was elected to the Hall of Fame in 1986, and he received a World Series ring in 2004 when the Red Sox ended their title drought, per Browne.



'Tis the season for holiday wish lists. Little boys and girls wish for the hottest new toys. Bigger boys and girls wish for a little peace and quiet.
J.D. Martinez, meanwhile, wishes for $200 million.
Or, at least, that's what mega-agent Scott Boras is wishing for on Martinez's behalf. This is according to ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick:
Teams that have reached out early on J.D. Martinez have gotten the impression Scott Boras is looking for something in the $200 million range.
After a 2017 season in which Martinez, 30, tallied a 1.066 OPS and 45 home runs for the Detroit Tigers and Arizona Diamondbacks, he's certainly in a position to aim high for his first big free-agent payday. Boras is just the guy to aim high for him, not to mention just the guy to sell him in appropriately glowing terms.
Take it from Boras himself, who channeled his inner Leonard Maltin in sharing his thoughts on Martinez with Jon Morosi of MLB.com:
Scott Boras told me if J.D. Martinez’s free agency were a major motion picture, it would be called “King Kong of Slug.” His explanation: Martinez’s .690 slugging percentage was more than 50 points higher than anyone else in @MLB this year.
Beyond the slugging-percentage crown, Boras can also argue that his client was actually the best home run hitter of 2017.
Giancarlo Stanton (59) and Aaron Judge (52) may have hit more total homers, but Martinez hit his at a higher rate. He launched his 45 homers in only 489 plate appearances. Thus did 9.2 percent of his trips to the plate end in a long ball, the highest of any player who logged at least 400 plate appearances.
Another thing that helps Boras' cause is that Martinez was barred from receiving a qualifying offer when he was traded from Detroit to Arizona in July. Because of that, he isn't tied to draft-pick compensation.
Of course, there's a world of difference between seeking $200 million and actually getting it.
Can't-Miss Videos from Around B/R
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
My projections have Martinez pegged for a five-year contract worth $145 million. That's roughly where other prognosticators—e.g. MLB Trade Rumors and FanRag Sports—have him ending up. Ditto MLB executives surveyed by Crasnick.
The reasons to take the $200 million idea seriously, however, are twofold: Neither the willingness of teams to spend big bucks in free agency nor Boras' determination to acquire said big bucks should ever be underestimated.
Most valuations of Martinez see him as a $25-million-per-year player. That's not an outrageous number by the standards of MLB free agency. Boras can aim to push that number higher while seeking a seven-year contract that would take the total value near or over $200 million. 
Signing Martinez for seven years is a stretch, given his age, but not too far of a leap. Just since 2010, Matt Holliday, Jayson Werth, Albert Pujols, Jacoby Ellsbury, Robinson Cano, Shin-Soo Choo and Chris Davis all got seven-year deals that started in their 30s. Boras secured five of those.
Each of those players was a well-established star at the time. The same is true of Martinez now. His 2017 season was the latest stop in a run of success that began when he emerged with a revamped swing in 2014. He's averaged a .936 OPS and 32 homers over the last four seasons.

Perhaps emboldened by a juiced ball, modern hitters aim to keep the ball off the ground and hit it as hard as they can. Martinez handles both but is particularly good at the latter. Since 2015, his average fly ball exit velocity of 96 miles per hour is tied for fifth among qualified hitters.
However, this is also where Martinez's $200 million dream begins to crack.
The best equation for a big-money contract is one in which a player with specific skills meets a market with a widespread need for his specific skills. Unfortunately for Boras, he's tasked with selling Martinez's power at a time when power is everywhere.
The 2017 season set a new all-time mark for home runs, with 3.3 percent of all plate appearances producing a long ball. The 5.9-percentage point gap between Martinez's home run rate and the league's home run rate is big, but below the biggest gaps (notably 8.1 percent by Barry Bonds in 2001 and Babe Ruth in 1920) ever recorded by 40-homer sluggers.
Granted, extreme environments aren't necessarily guaranteed to hurt players with extreme skills. A good example would be pitching aces Jon Lester and Max Scherzer getting $155 million and $210 million, respectively, following a 2014 season that was the best year for starting pitchers in decades.
But Lester and Scherzer didn't just boast talent. They also boasted durability and reliability, two things that are becoming less common even as pitching dominance is becoming more common.
As it happens, durability and reliability are two areas where Martinez falls short.
Injuries have limited him to 239 games over the last two seasons. In the meantime, his usefulness outside the batter's box is diminishing. Whether one consults defensive runs saved or ultimate zone rating at FanGraphs, or Statcast's catch probability metric, there's no avoiding the conclusion that he's been a well-below-average fielder since 2016.
Martinez isn't without red flags, even within the batter's box. It's good that he's steadily adding patience to go with his power, as his walk rate is trending further above average. But it's not really helping to fix his strikeout rate, which is stuck too high.
These things suggest that Martinez is far from a foolproof long-term investment. Maybe that won't hurt his average annual value, but it should create a big gap in the contract years that Boras is seeking versus the contract years that teams are willing to dish out.
Lastly, the elephant in the room is the Plan B that Martinez suitors can turn to: Stanton.
Acquiring him and the $295 million remaining on his contract in a trade with the Miami Marlins would be costly, to say the least. But relative to Martinez, a fellow right fielder, it would mean getting an equally powerful hitter who's also younger and more athletic. This is a route that some of the top suitors for Martinez—such as the Boston Red Sox, St. Louis Cardinals and San Francisco Giants—can afford to go.
Not all the stars are aligned for Boras to bag a $200 million deal for Martinez this winter. A much more likely scenario is him starting there, teams countering much lower, and then, eventually, a meeting in the middle.
                   
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Baseball Savant. Contract data courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.




The annual general manager meetings are officially underway in Orlando, Florida.
While they don't generally bring the same flurry of activity that we'll see next month at the winter meetings, the GM meetings are often where teams lay the groundwork for deals that will take place later in the offseason.
As a result, the next few days through Thursday will likely provide the MLB world with a bevy of new trade rumors and speculative landing spots for top free agents.
In the meantime, let's take a look at some of the notable rumors already circulating and run them through the old B.S. meter.

The Rumor
Pedro Moura of the Los Angeles Times reported that the Phillies "extensively examined" Cesar Hernandez during the regular season.
      
Overview
After the second base position produced an abysmal .601 OPS in 2017—worst in the majors by a wide margin—it should come as no surprise that the Angels are looking to upgrade.
Neil Walker is available on the free-agent market and Dee Gordon can be had via trade, but it's Cesar Hernandez whom the team has been tied to in the early stages of the offseason.
The 27-year-old is coming off another strong season in which he hit .294/.373/.421 with 41 extra-base hits and 15 stolen bases. His 6.4 WAR over the past two seasons ranks 10th among all second basemen.
However, with middle infield prospects Scott Kingery and J.P. Crawford both knocking on the door, the Phillies could be looking to flip Hernandez this offseason. His strong on-base skills and team control through the 2020 season should bring a decent return, even in a watered-down second base market.
      
B.S. Meter: Low
Gordon has game-changing speed, but his 3.6 percent walk rate leaves a lot to be desired, especially leading off. On the other hand, Hernandez looks like the perfect guy to slide into the leadoff spot ahead of Mike Trout, and the Angels should have enough mid-level prospect talent to get a deal done.

The Rumor
Jon Morosi of MLB Network tweeted that the Giants have interest in trading for Jackie Bradley Jr. while also noting that he's one of many outfield options they're considering.
     
Overview
The Giants have work to do if they hope to make a quick return to contention following a disastrous 98-loss season.
Finding a power bat to man left field has been a glaring need for years, but a strong case can be made that finding a center field upgrade has become even more pressing.
Incumbent Denard Span tallied an absolutely brutal minus-27 DRS in 2017—far and away the worst of any player at any position—and that's unlikely to improve to even a passable level as he gets set to enter his age-34 season.
With that in mind, it's no surprise that Bradley is on the team's radar.
His offensive numbers dipped in 2017, but he was once again one of the league's best defensive center fielders (9 DRS, 4.9 UZR/150) and his 43 DRS since the start of the 2014 season rank 13th among all outfielders.
The 27-year-old is projected to earn a reasonable $5.9 million in his second year of arbitration and he's under team control through the 2020 season.
      
B.S. Meter: Moderate
I can see this happening, but only as a secondary domino to the Red Sox acquiring either J.D. Martinez or Giancarlo Stanton. Otherwise, what is Boston's motivation to deal?

Rumor
"Obviously, if we move down the line and we're able to have some discussions with them, I'd be very honored to be able to talk with them and hopefully come to a deal," Alex Cobb told Patrick Mooney of CSN Chicago about potentially joining the Cubs in free agency.
     
Overview
The above quote wasn't the only telling tidbit from that Mooney article.
Cobb on Cubs manager Joe Maddon: "I don't hide the fact that I've got the most respect for Joe Maddon and what he did for me coming up as a player. Not so much as a pitcher on the mound, but as a professional athlete and a professional baseball player, and how to deal with the mental side of the game. And how to deal with the stresses that come with a big-league lifestyle. There's nobody better in the game to control (that) and deal with people."
And on new Cubs pitching coach Jim Hickey, who he worked with during his time in Tampa Bay: "I can't say enough good things about him. He's become—not only a pitching coach—but a real close friend of mine."
The 30-year-old Cobb pitched well in his first full season following Tommy John surgery, going 12-10 with a 3.66 ERA and 1.22 WHIP while working a career-high 179.1 innings—just in time for his first trip to free agency.
A four- or five-year deal is likely, but he'll still come significantly cheaper than what it would take to re-sign Jake Arrieta.
      
B.S. Meter: Very low
It seems like every offseason there's that one free-agent match that just makes sense on all levels and feels more like an inevitability than a mere possibility. That's Cobb to the Cubs this offseason.

The Rumor
Nick Piecoro of the Arizona Republic wrote: "Speaking at the team's charity golf event on Friday, CEO Derrick Hall seemed to give the latest indication that the Diamondbacks aren't expecting to bring back slugging free-agent outfielder J.D. Martinez."
     
Overview
The Piecoro article continued: "Hall said the Diamondbacks' payroll will be "close to where we've been the last couple of years." The club ended last season somewhere above $105 million and next year's roster projects north of $115 million. That would appear to leave little room for another big-ticket item like Martinez, whose agent, Scott Boras, seems to be positioning his client for a major payday."
Martinez is the consensus top bat on the free-agent market after posting a 1.066 OPS with 45 home runs and 104 RBI. His initial asking price is thought to be in the $200 million neighborhood, according to Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com.
That might be wishful thinking given his injury history—he's topped 125 games just once in his career—but the six-year, $150 million deal that MLB Trade Rumors projected sounds reasonable.
The D-backs won 93 games in 2017 and they have all the pieces to be a serious title contender next year.
      
B.S. Meter: Moderate
Are the D-backs title contenders with Martinez back in the mix? Absolutely.
Are they title contenders if he winds up signing elsewhere? Yes...maybe.
That hesitation is reason enough to think the D-backs haven't slammed the door on a reunion quite yet.

The Rumor
The Twins have "inquired to Reds on (the) availability" of closer Raisel Iglesias, according to Jon Morosi of MLB Network.
      
Overview
The Reds are several years into the rebuilding process, so they've already flipped the obvious trade chips on the roster.
However, closer Raisel Iglesias is still a valuable asset.
The 27-year-old converted 28 of 30 save chances with a 2.49 ERA, 1.11 WHIP and 10.9 strikeouts per nine innings in his first full season as the team's closer, and his team-friendly contract adds significant value.
Iglesias signed a seven-year contract when he first defected from Cuba and he's owed just $16.6 million over the final three years of that deal.
The Twins relied on veterans Brandon Kintzler and Matt Belisle to close games in 2017, and both pitchers are now free agents, leaving the ninth inning as an obvious area to address.
Prospects John Curtiss and J.T. Chargois both have late-inning stuff and Trevor Hildenberger (37 G, 12 HLD, 3.21 ERA, 9.4 K/9) was impressive as a rookie, but relying on any of them to fill the closer's role at this point would be asking too much.
      
B.S. Meter: Very high
Despite their 2017 success, the Twins are still building toward the future and it would cost entirely too much in the way of young, controllable talent to get this deal done. They're not exactly one top-tier closer away from contending for a title.

The Rumor
MLB writer Peter Gammons listed the Giants—alongside the Cardinals—as the team with the "most intense" interest in trading for Giancarlo Stanton.
     
Overview
The Giants finished last in the majors with 128 home runs, and Brandon Belt was the team leader with 18 long balls—the second year in a row the team did not have a 20-homer player.
Part of that stems from playing at pitcher-friendly AT&T Park, and the Giants have succeeded in the past without a lineup full of big boppers.
Buster Posey (22 HR) and Hunter Pence (20 HR) led a Giants team that only hit 132 home runs during the 2014 season and that didn't stop them from winning a World Series title.
Still, there's no doubt adding Stanton to the middle of the lineup would completely transform the offense as the team looks to rebound from a rough 2017 season.
Improving the outfield offense has also been identified as a focal point of the offseason, and Stanton is an underrated defender in right field (10 DRS, 7.1 UZR/150), where he also has a cannon arm.
But do the Giants have the pieces to swing a deal?
"I think the Giants would have to get very creative," one AL scout told Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com. "That's a bottom-five farm system in San Francisco."
      
B.S. Meter: Moderate
I don't doubt the sincerity of the Giants' initial interest, but a lack of young talent and a perennial unwillingness to eclipse the luxury-tax threshold are going to be significant hurdles.

The Rumor
"They're definitely in play," a source told Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald regarding the Red Sox's interest in Stanton.
      
Overview
The Red Sox's top priority this offseason seems to be adding a middle-of-the-order slugger.
It's no coincidence that the offense fell off significantly following the retirement of David Ortiz, as the big addition last offseason was first baseman Mitch Moreland:
J.D. Martinez appears to be the team's top target and it's easy to see why.
He's fresh off a 45-homer season, signing him won't require the team to give up any prospects, and it also won't take the same 10-year commitment that acquiring Stanton would entail.
However, if he winds up elsewhere, there's a significant drop-off as far as impact bats on the free-agent market and the front office could quickly shift their attention to Stanton.
     
B.S. Meter: Low
Even if Martinez is Plan A, laying the groundwork for a potential Stanton deal now makes sense in case the Red Sox are forced to turn their focus to the trade market.

The Rumor
Derrick Goold of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch wrote: "The Cardinals have had discussions already with Miami about trading for MVP candidate Giancarlo Stanton, the biggest name and brawniest hitter available this winter ... Both teams expect conversations to continue this week and gain clarity, with the Cardinals described by one source as “determined” in their interest."
     
Overview
The Cardinals have not had a true middle-of-the-order slugger since Albert Pujols departed in free agency.
Here's a quick rundown of their yearly home run leaders since he left:
Not exactly eye-popping power numbers.
The Cardinals have a ton of talent in the upper levels of the minors—guys like Carson Kelly, Jack Flaherty, Tyler O'Neill, Sandy Alcantara, Magneuris Sierra and Harrison Bader—who have no clear path to playing time at the MLB level.
Contending for Triple-A championships is cool, but so are blockbuster trades to acquire the game's premier power hitter.
      
B.S. Meter: Very low
The Cardinals have a long history of avoiding mega contracts and clinging tight to their homegrown talent. That being said, I'm quickly warming up to the idea of them being the front-runners for Stanton, especially if the Dodgers are not a suitor. It's the type of bold move they need to make to stay relevant in the NL and they have the pieces to do it.
      
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs, unless otherwise noted.



The 2017 Rookie of the Year picks in the American League and National League went as expected, with Cody Bellinger and Aaron Judge taking home the awards Monday.
Judge beat out Red Sox outfielder Andrew Benintendi and Orioles outfielder Trey Mancini for AL honors after the Yankees star led the league with 52 home runs and 128 runs scored.
Bellinger also showcased his power this season with 39 home runs for the Dodgers, helping him top Pirates first baseman Josh Bell and Cardinals shortstop Paul DeJong. 
             
AL Voting Results
1. Aaron Judge, New York Yankees (30 first-place votes, 150 points)
2. Andrew Benintendi, Boston Red Sox (75 points)
3. Trey Mancini, Baltimore Orioles (31 points)
4. Matt Olson, Oakland Athletics (5 points)
5. Yuli Gurriel, Houston Astros (5 points)
        
NL Voting Results
1. Cody Bellinger, Los Angeles Dodgers (30 first-place votes, 150 points)
2. Paul DeJong, St. Louis Cardinals (56 points)
3. Josh Bell, Pittsburgh Pirates (32 points)
4. Rhys Hoskins, Philadelphia Phillies (12 points)
5. German Marquez, Colorado Rockies (10 points)
Results courtesy of MLB Network.
              
The Yankees account celebrated Judge's honors with some impressive statistics:
Led the league in Rs, BBs, HRs.
52 HRs = Most ever by a rookie
127 BBs = Most ever by a rookie
Winning the HR Derby = 1st time ever by a rookie

Was there ever a doubt?!?!? Congrats, @TheJudge44, on being the UNANIMOUS @officialBBWAA AL Rookie of the Year. We're so proud! 👏💙😭 https://t.co/ZlW38HRLro
Based on his season, there wasn't a lot of shock when the final voting was announced:
This season, Aaron Judge became the 1st player to lead the AL in runs, HR, and walks since Mickey Mantle in 1958. He became the youngest player to do so (25) since Ted Williams in 1942.
To nobody's surprise, Aaron Judge is the unanimous winner of American League Rookie of the Year.
Andrew Benintendi finishes second in AL Rookie of the Year voting. No surprise that Aaron Judge is the runaway winner.
Judge's family was also proud of the accomplishment live on MLB Network:
The Judge family is a proud one tonight. 😍 https://t.co/KhBYdlRXjo
He became the first Yankees player to bring home the honor since Derek Jeter in 1996.
Both leagues had relatively easy calls compared to past years, although Judge was especially a no-brainer considering he is a finalist for the AL MVP award as well.
The 25-year-old didn't do much in his 27 games in 2016, but he burst onto the scene in 2017 with 30 home runs and a .329 batting average before the All-Star break. He became even more of a household name when he put on a show at the Home Run Derby.
His stellar performance continued throughout the year, helping the Yankees reach the ALCS before they lost to the Astros in seven games. He also earned a spot on the cover of next year's MLB The Show video game:
AL #ROY finalist: ✅
AL #MVP finalist: ✅
#TheShow18 cover athlete: ✅

What a day for @TheJudge44. https://t.co/GcWR8qovUL
In other years, Mancini would get plenty of recognition with his 24 home runs and .826 OPS, as would Benintendi, who had 20 home runs, 20 stolen bases and ranked second on the Red Sox with 90 RBI. However, it was nearly impossible for any other rookies to compete with Judge this season.
There wasn't any more surprise in the NL with Bellinger taking home every vote:
UNANIMOUS!

@Cody_Bellinger is the 2017 National League Rookie of the Year! 

Congrats, Cody! https://t.co/VRbmClxbOj
This continues an impressive trend for the Dodgers, who also had Corey Seager win the award last year:
Cody Bellinger is the 18th @Dodgers player to win Rookie of the Year, 9 more than any other franchise.

Bellinger is the 1st rookie to lead a 100-win team in both HR and RBI (via @EliasSports). https://t.co/aN6ZkGjbFN
As MLB Stat of the Day noted, the duo of Judge and Bellinger reached rare territory:
.@TheJudge44 &amp; @Cody_Bellinger are the 4th pair of players to be unanimously voted Rookies of the Year in the AL and NL. https://t.co/7m131ZUWGl
This didn't mean neither player faced real competition. Bell hit 26 home runs and led the Pirates with 90 RBI, while DeJong led the Cardinals with 25 home runs and played impressive defense up the middle after joining the team at the end of May. Rhys Hoskins also turned heads in limited playing time.
However, Bellinger was the clear top option as one of the driving forces behind the Dodgers' MLB-best 104 wins this season.
The first baseman and outfielder finished second in the NL in home runs, trailing only Giancarlo Stanton, and he earned an All-Star appearance despite beginning the year in Triple-A.
Considering he is just 22 years old, there are clearly bright days ahead for Bellinger, as well as all six Rookie of the Year finalists this season.



Los Angeles Dodgers first baseman Cody Bellinger was named the 2017 National League Rookie of the Year Monday after he put on a power-packed show for the National League champions.
MLB announced the winner:
He took the National League by storm, and now @Cody_Bellinger is the unanimous @officialBBWAA 2017 NL Rookie of the Year! https://t.co/FKE2hSPAHe
The Dodgers have captured back-to-back NL Rookie of the Year Awards following shortstop Corey Seager's successful bid for the hardware in 2016.
Bellinger, who made his major league debut April 25, was nothing short of brilliant during a historic inaugural campaign that included an All-Star berth.
In 132 games, the 22-year-old slashed .267/.352/.581 with a National League rookie record 39 home runs plus 97 RBI. The only first-year players to mash more home runs than Bellinger are Aaron Judge (52 in 2017) and Mark McGwire (49 in 1987).
Bellinger also finished the year with a .933 OPS—10th among NL hitters—and a robust 4.0 wins above replacement, per FanGraphs.
"For a young player to impact a championship-caliber ballclub like this—on the defensive side, obviously in the batter's box—I think exceeded all of our expectations," Dodgers manager Dave Roberts said, according to the Orange County Register's Bill Plunkett. "It's scary. It's easy to say he's only going to get better. But he keeps getting better."
Topping his rookie numbers will require a serious step forward, but if 2017 was any indication, Bellinger appears to be on a lofty trajectory that could eventually land him in the MVP conversation as the Dodgers continue their quest to try to represent the class of the National League.
    
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com and FanGraphs.



Baltimore Orioles closer Zach Britton has one more year of team control remaining on his current contract, and the Orioles wouldn't be lacking for potential trade partners if they made the two-time All-Star available.
FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman reported Monday the Chicago Cubs and Los Angeles Dodgers have spoken with Baltimore about a possible deal.  
The Orioles have a number of reasons why they should consider trading Britton, with his contract one of the biggest.
Kenley Jansen re-signed with the Dodgers for $80 million over five years last offseason, while Aroldis Chapman got a five-year, $86 million deal from the New York Yankees, which is the richest contract for a closer.
If Baltimore is going to be serious about re-signing Manny Machado, who will become a free agent in 2019 as well, tying up millions in an extension for Britton may not be the best use of its resources.
There's also the question of whether Britton will be more of a luxury than an asset for the Orioles in 2018. If Baltimore slips out of playoff contention again, it will have little need for an elite closer. Trading Britton could help the Orioles get a top prospect or two to help rebuild.
The fact the Dodgers and Cubs are interested in the left-hander is not surprising. The past two National League champions will again have World Series aspirations in 2018.
Heyman reported in July that Los Angeles was pursuing Britton, and the lefty would provide plenty of help for Jansen, who was overworked in the postseason. Chicago, meanwhile, may need to replace Wade Davis, who's the best closer on the free agent market this offseason.



The San Francisco Giants are reportedly looking to bolster their outfield defense this offseason and have their eyes on Cincinnati Reds outfielder Billy Hamilton and Boston Red Sox outfielder Jackie Bradley Jr. 
Jon Morosi of MLB Network reported the news Monday, noting general manager Bobby Evans wants to bolster the outfield defense with a potential trade.
It makes sense San Francisco would be in the market for better outfield defenders.
According to FanGraphs, it finished dead last in the league with minus-45 total defensive runs saved above average in the outfield during the 2017 campaign. While there were other reasons that contributed to the Giants' abysmal 64-98 record, having poor outfield defense in spacious AT&T Park didn't help as they finished in last place in the National League West.
Hamilton has been responsible for positive runs saved totals every year of his career and posted a plus-nine in 2017, per FanGraphs. Bradley also posted a plus-nine total in 2017 playing solely centerfield after seeing time at the corner spots earlier in his career, per FanGraphs.
They would bring more than their potent gloves to the Bay Area.
Hamilton stole a career-high 59 bases in 2017, marking his fourth straight season he topped 55 swiped bags. He is one of the fastest players in the entire league and can single-handedly wreck an inning for an opposing pitcher simply by reaching first base.
Bradley isn't the stolen base threat Hamilton is but drilled 17 home runs in 2017 and 26 long balls in 2016. He would add a potent bat to a San Francisco lineup that finished last in baseball with 128 home runs last season.



A banner debut season for New York Yankees right fielder Aaron Judge resulted in him being named the 2017 American League Rookie of the Year.
MLB announced Judge's win Monday.
#AllRise for the unanimous @officialBBWAA 2017 AL Rookie of the Year … @TheJudge44! https://t.co/BgDxBB3Ft3
Judge beat out Andrew Benintendi of the Boston Red Sox and Trey Mancini of the Baltimore Orioles to become the first Yankees player to win the award since Derek Jeter in 1996.
According to the Baseball Writers' Association of America, Judge was a unanimous winner, collecting all 30 first-place votes. Benintendi was second, earning 23 second-place votes and six third-place votes.
Judge, who was a first-round pick in 2013, made his MLB debut in 2016. He appeared lost out of the gate, with a .179/.263/.345 slash line and 42 strikeouts in 84 at-bats in 27 games.
After making the Yankees 25-man roster out of spring training in 2017, Judge became one of the biggest stars in the sport. The 25-year-old set a rookie record with an AL-leading 52 home runs. He also led the league with 128 runs scored and 127 walks and led all of MLB with 8.2 FanGraphs wins above replacement.
His .422 on-base percentage and .627 slugging percentage ranked second in the AL, trailing only Los Angeles Angels star Mike Trout in both categories.
Beyond the monster offensive numbers, Judge proved himself as a complete player. He finished second among AL right fielders with nine defensive runs saved, per FanGraphs, and was named a finalist for the Gold Glove award.
"You know, I've talked about it all year long that he is not just a hitter. He's a complete player," then-Yankees manager Joe Girardi told reporters during the American League Championship Series. "He's a great defender. He's a great baserunner. And he does so many things right at an early age, on a big stage, and just the way he handles all the attention simply amazes me. It's as good as it gets."
Judge was one of the biggest reasons the Yankees won 91 games during the regular season and reached Game 7 of the ALCS against the Houston Astros.
Judge was a highly regarded prospect in the minors, ranking as high as No. 18 in Baseball Prospectus' Top 101 in 2016.
Judge didn't let a poor start to his MLB career get in the way of a standout rookie campaign. He put his potential on display last season and will be a superstar who leads the Yankees for years to come.



The New York Yankees reportedly view the recently retired Carlos Beltran as a candidate for their open managerial position.
Andrew Marchand of ESPN.com reported the news Monday, noting general manager Brian Cashman "has always been a big fan of Beltran's on and off the field."
Beltran announced his retirement earlier Monday in a post on the Players' Tribune.
Beltran said he "would love to have the opportunity to manage," per Mark Feinsand of MLB.com, and he even pointed to the possibility of taking over the Yankees job.
"I appreciated the way I was treated; my family, the relationship with Brian," he said. "I don't know what they're looking for. Experience as a manager, I don't have that. But I have the passion for the game, I have the knowledge of being able to play the game for a long time. I get along well with the players, with my teammates; I've always taken that to heart, trying to impact my teammates in a positive way.
"I would not discount anything; you're talking about the New York Yankees. You're not just talking about any team in baseball. Not taking anything away from any other organization, but the Yankees are a team that anyone would love to put on that uniform and manage that ballclub."
The job is open because the Yankees parted ways with Joe Girardi even though they reached Game 7 of the American League Championship Series against Beltran's Houston Astros.
Cashman pointed to communications problems within the clubhouse as the main reason behind the decision, per Marchand. New York finished with a winning record in each of Girardi's 10 seasons and won the 2009 World Series in his second at the helm.
Beltran played 20 seasons for the Astros, Yankees, Kansas City Royals, New York Mets, San Francisco Giants, St. Louis Cardinals and Texas Rangers. He was a nine-time All-Star, three-time Gold Glover and two-time Silver Slugger and was named the 1999 American League Rookie of the Year.
He helped the Astros to their first World Series title this season.



Kansas City Royals manager Ned Yost broke his pelvis after falling from a tree in Georgia last week. On Monday, he spoke about the severity of the life-threatening injury.
"There's no doubt I would have bled out if I didn't have my cellphone with me," he told Jeffrey Flanagan of MLB.com. "There was nobody that was coming. Nobody would have found me. I would have been dead by nightfall."
He continued, "The trauma surgeon said, 'Man, Ned, I was really scared about you. We've seen these things before—this is a 25-30 percent mortality rate. You were crashing on the table. We couldn't get the bleeding stopped. I thought we were going to lose you.'"
Yost also confirmed he would need a wheelchair for two months:
Ned Yost also said he will be in a wheelchair for at least two months but hopes to be able to move around normally by Spring Training. He tells me he feels "like a lucky man" right now.
He regularly spends much of his offseason hunting on his Georgia property, so the fact that he was up in a deer stand and isolated in the wilderness wasn't surprising. 
"You've got people pulling on you," Yost told Kent Babb of the Kansas City Star in 2012, contrasting his duties as a manager with the opportunity to spend time on his farm. "You've got your coaches, you've got your players; you're worried about this, you're worried about that. But out here, you don't. You're just in the tractor. With the air conditioning going on, it don't matter."
Yost, 63, has spent eight seasons as the Royals' manager, going 629-632 in that time. He led the team to back-to-back World Series trips in 2014-15, winning a title in the 2015 season.



The New York Yankees have added two former players to their list of candidates to be the next manager.
According to Joel Sherman of the New York Post, Aaron Boone and Hensley Meulens will be interviewed for the job, joining Yankees bench coach Rob Thomson and former Indians manager Eric Wedge as those currently being considered.
The team also asked about Athletics manager Bob Melvin, but Oakland would not grant an interview, per Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic.
Melvin, who has spent 14 of the last 15 years as a manager for the Mariners, Diamondbacks and now Oakland, is coming off his third straight losing season. However, he is signed with his current team through the 2019 season.
Still, the two new candidates provide some intriguing options as replacements for Joe Girardi.
Meulens has worked as the hitting coach and bench coach for the San Francisco Giants, helping the team bring home World Series titles three times since 2010. The former utility player also spent five years on the field with the Yankees, mostly coming off the bench from 1989-93.
Boone only spent 54 games with the Yankees, although he is a prominent player in recent franchise history thanks to his ALCS-winning home run against the Boston Red Sox in 2003. Although he has never been a coach, he spent 12 years in the majors and has worked as an analyst for ESPN.
He also comes from a baseball family, with his brother, Bret, his father, Bob, and his grandfather, Ray, all having extended major league careers.
The Yankees' managerial job is likely to become one of the most sought-after positions in the majors thanks to a talented young team that reached the ALCS before losing in seven games to the Astros. Considering there have been only two managers for the franchise in the last 22 seasons, general manager Brian Cashman appears willing to take his time to find the right candidate.



The Boston Red Sox could be targeting free-agent first baseman Carlos Santana as a possible upgrade to the offense for next season.
According to Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe, the team will meet with Santana's agents this week at the upcoming general manager meetings.
The 31-year-old has spent his entire career with the Cleveland Indians, hitting .259 with 23 home runs and 79 RBI.
He tallied 34 home runs in 2016 and has been a consistent source of power with an average of 24 home runs over the last seven seasons. Of course, his best attribute might be the ability to draw walks. The switch-hitter has a .363 career on-base percentage and has never been lower than .350 in this category.
Considering Boston ranked 11th in the majors with a .329 on-base percentage and just 27th with 168 home runs, this could be exactly what the team needs.
A former catcher, Santana has been mostly a first baseman and designated hitter over the past three years. He also played seven games in right field and despite limited range didn't make an error in this span.
His position versatility could be useful on a team that loves to move guys around the field, although he will likely be used to fill the hole at first base with Mitch Moreland set to leave in free agency.
One of the only holdups for the Red Sox could be that Santana received a qualifying offer from the Indians, meaning any team that signs him would be subject to lost draft picks.
However, adding a consistent player who rarely misses games and has recent playoff experience could be worth the cost for Boston.



Veteran outfielder Carlos Beltran announced his retirement Monday in a post on The Players' Tribune:
"I am blessed to have played this game for 20 years.
"I am blessed to have played for so many great organizations.
"I am blessed to have shared all of my experiences with my wife and my three kids, my family and friends. To have so many loving fans. To have been able to build a school in Puerto Rico and change the lives of so many kids. To have won the Roberto Clemente Award, which is the greatest honor I could have ever received as a ballplayer.
"And I am blessed to be a champion.
"But now, my time as a player has come to an end.
"Today, I am officially announcing my retirement.
"Muchas gracias, beisbol.
"I can't wait for what the next chapter holds."
Beltran, 40, had a solid season with the Houston Astros in 2017, hitting .231 with 14 homers and 51 RBI in 129 regular-season games. For his career, he hit .279 with 435 home runs, 1,587 RBI and 2,725 hits.
The nine-time All-Star and 1999 American League Rookie of the Year was superb in the postseason in his career, hitting .307 with 15 homers and 42 RBI in 65 career playoff games. While he didn't play a major role in the postseason for the Astros this past year, he was a part of the team that earned the title over the Los Angeles Dodgers.
If nothing else, his postseason experience was valuable for the Astros in October.
"Me being able to play in previous October games, I try to pass on to them that it's fun, yes, it's a lot of pressure, but at the end of the day, you have to be able to manage your emotions, be able to go out there and do whatever you have to do," he said during the 2017 ALCS against the New York Yankees, per Howie Kussoy of the New York Post.
He continued, "I'm passionate about passing on the things that I have learned in the game of baseball. It has been a fun year for me being the veteran guy, being around so many young guys. ... And honestly, it's a blessing [to have] this opportunity at this time in my career."
Beltran will present an interesting case to Hall of Fame voters once he's eligible for potential enshrinement to Cooperstown. 



The San Francisco Giants and St. Louis Cardinals are reportedly the two teams with the most interest in trading for Miami Marlins outfielder Giancarlo Stanton.
Longtime MLB reporter Peter Gammons described their interest as "most intense" but said it's unclear if Stanton would be interested in playing for either franchise.
Stanton, 28, is considered the biggest trade chip on the market this winter. New Marlins ownership has made it a priority to shed payroll, which will at some point come at the expense of their best and highest-paid player.
"I don't like the word teardown," new Marlins part-owner Derek Jeter told reporters last month while categorizing the team as a "rebuilding" franchise. "Moving forward, there are going to at times be unpopular decisions we make. We have a plan, but at the same time we have to have patience."
Stanton led MLB with 59 home runs and 132 runs batted in last season. He was the first player since the 2001 season with at least 59 homers.
What makes any trade more difficult is the fact Stanton has a full no-trade clause. While it's expected he would be amenable to a deal that puts him with a contending franchise, he holds all of the power. The Marlins may be in a situation where they'll have to potentially accept a lesser haul in return for a more attractive destination of Stanton's choosing.
The Giants and Cardinals have needs in the outfield, a strong enough financial foothold and enticing young players. They've seemed like natural Stanton fits ever since the rumors began, so it's not a surprise to see them being mentioned as serious suitors. 



The MLB hot stove remains lukewarm at best, but things will inevitably heat up as the winter meetings draw closer.
While we wait for Dec. 10, we've decided to take a look at the biggest concern that each MLB team is facing this offseason.
Whether it's addressing a glaring roster hole, maximizing a coveted trade chip, re-signing a key free agent or something else entirely, every team has at least one notable area that needs to be addressed.
It's how those concerns are dealt with that could ultimately determine if the offseason was a successful one for each franchise.

Baltimore Orioles: Starting pitching
The Orioles have Dylan Bundy (28 GS, 13-9, 4.24 ERA), Kevin Gausman (34 GS, 11-12, 4.68 ERA) and a ton of question marks in the starting rotation.
They ranked last in the majors in starters' ERA (5.70) and managed just 61 quality starts along the way.
Andrew Cashner and Jason Vargas have been identified as two potential targets, per Roch Kubatko of MASN, so it sounds like they'll be wading around the mid-level free-agency pool as they look to fill out the staff.
     
Boston Red Sox: The power outage
After dropping from ninth (208) to 27th (168) in the league in home runs, the Red Sox will be looking to add at least one middle-of-the-order bat this offseason.
First base is the obvious spot for an addition, with Mitch Moreland headed for free agency and guys like Eric Hosmer, Carlos Santana, Logan Morrison and Yonder Alonso all available.
Hanley Ramirez could also move back to first base after undergoing shoulder surgery, which would open up the designated hitter spot and allow for a wider range of targets.
     
New York Yankees: Starting pitching
The starting rotation became less of a concern for the Yankees when Masahiro Tanaka opted into the final three years and $67 million of his contract.
However, there's still one spot to fill on the staff behind Tanaka, Luis Severino, Sonny Gray and Jordan Montgomery, and that looks like the most obvious hole on the roster.
Prospect Chance Adams (15-5, 2.45 ERA in Double- and Triple-A) could be an option at some point in 2018 and Bryan Mitchell, Adam Warren, Luis Cessa and Caleb Smith will all provide in-house depth, but one outside addition still looks like a must.
     
Tampa Bay Rays: Replacing Logan Morrison
The Rays brought Logan Morrison back on a one-year, $2.5 million deal last offseason and he rewarded them by posting an .868 OPS and slugging 38 home runs.
That's likely pushed him out of the team's price range this time around, with MLB Trade Rumors projecting a three-year, $36 million deal.
So how does the front office replace that middle-of-the-order production?
Prospect Jake Bauers is an internal candidate and a healthy Brad Miller could also play his way back into a significant role. Otherwise, the low-cost free-agent market includes Mitch Moreland, Mark Reynolds, Mike Napoli, Lucas Duda and Adam Lind.
     
Toronto Blue Jays: Starting pitching
Marcus Stroman emerged as a legitimate ace in 2017, and veterans Marco Estrada and J.A. Happ will also be back in contract years.
However, the ongoing health issues of Aaron Sanchez make him a huge question mark, and the No. 5 spot in the rotation is wide-open after Joe Biagini proved he's better suited to pitch out of the bullpen.
A whopping 14 different pitchers started a game last season for the Blue Jays, who dropped from fourth (3.64) to 14th (4.57) in starters' ERA. With the team seemingly gearing up for one last run at contention with the current core, adding at least one proven starter will be a top priority.

Chicago White Sox: Eating innings
Part of rebuilding is finding a cheap way to eat up innings until you're ready to contend.
In theory, the White Sox could break camp with a rotation of Lucas Giolito, Reynaldo Lopez, Carson Fulmer and Michael Kopech flanking underperforming veteran James Shields, while Carlos Rodon recovers from shoulder surgery.
But rather than run those young arms into the ground while putting unnecessary pressure on their development, the team will likely look to add a couple low-cost veterans to shoulder the load.
The same goes for the bullpen, where a largely unproven group that includes Juan Minaya, Gregory Infante and Aaron Bummer will need reinforcements.
     
Cleveland Indians: Replacing Bryan Shaw
Hot take: Carlos Santana won't be the most difficult free agent to replace in Cleveland.
Reliever Bryan Shaw is also set to depart and he's been an integral part of the relief corps since joining the Indians in the same three-team trade that brought Trevor Bauer to town prior to the 2013 season.
The 30-year-old has appeared in an MLB-leading 378 games over the past five seasons, posting a 3.11 ERA, 1.19 WHIP and 8.4 strikeouts per nine innings with 110 holds and nine saves.
His durability and consistency could wind up netting him a four-year deal.
     
Detroit Tigers: Maximizing remaining trade chips
The Tigers dove headfirst into rebuilding this summer when they traded Justin Verlander, J.D. Martinez, Justin Upton, Justin Wilson and Alex Avila.
Who's left?
Controllable starter Michael Fulmer, standout reliever Shane Greene and veteran second baseman Ian Kinsler appear to be the most likely trade chips, and shortstop Jose Iglesias could also be flipped with free agency awaiting next offseason.
Making the most of those moveable pieces will be the key to the offseason.
      
Kansas City Royals: Avoiding long-term mistakes
Alex Gordon signed the largest contract in Royals history when he inked a four-year, $72 million extension that includes a $23 million mutual option for 2020.
In the first two years of that deal, he has a .214 average, .649 OPS and 0.9 WAR.
A small-market team like the Royals can't afford to make that type of mistake and now they need to decide if making a run at re-signing Eric Hosmer and/or Mike Moustakas is really in the best long-term interest of the team.
They're still hopeful they can re-up with both homegrown stars, according to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports.
      
Minnesota Twins: Late-inning relief pitching
Brandon Kintzler (28/32 SV, 2.78 ERA) and Matt Belisle (9/14 SV, 4.03 ERA) did an admirable job holding down the closer's role last season for the Twins, despite lacking prototypical ninth-inning stuff.
Both pitchers are now free agents, and the back of the bullpen looks like the most glaring hole for a Minnesota team that made a surprise run to the Wild Card Game.
The club has already checked in on Reds closer Raisel Iglesias, according to Jon Morosi of Fox Sports, who also notes the team is "performing due diligence" on a wide variety of bullpen arms.
If they hope to make a return trip to the postseason, more stability at the back of the pen is a must.

Houston Astros: Relief pitching
Despite a shaky performance from the bullpen, the Astros walked away from the 2017 season as World Series champions.
The relief corps combined for a 5.40 ERA with three losses and three blown saves during the postseason, and three of the team's top relievers during the regular season—Ken Giles (7 G, 11.74 ERA), Chris Devenski (10 G, 9.00 ERA) and Joe Musgrove (7 G, 8.10 ERA)—were the biggest culprits.
At the very least, finding a better primary lefty option than Tony Sipp (46 G, 5.79 ERA) figures to be a priority, and with no other glaring holes on the roster, they can afford to be aggressive on the reliever market.
     
Los Angeles Angels: Offense
Signing slugger Justin Upton to a five-year, $106 million extension in lieu of him exercising his opt-out clause was a terrific first step for the Angels in their efforts to build a more productive lineup around superstar Mike Trout.
There's still work to do.
Second base (.601 OPS, 30th in MLB) and third base (.713 OPS, 25th in MLB) were both weak spots, and finding more production from the left side of the plate (.689 OPS, 29th) will also be a priority.
The starting rotation could improve greatly with healthy seasons from Garrett Richards, Andrew Heaney, Tyler Skaggs and Matt Shoemaker—who combined for just 41 starts in 2017.
The offense needs to be properly addressed with outside additions, though.
     
Oakland Athletics: Maximizing remaining trade chips
The A's kicked rebuilding efforts into gear this summer when they traded Sonny Gray, Sean Doolittle, Ryan Madson, Yonder Alonso, Rajai Davis and Adam Rosales.
Now they need to focus on making the most of their remaining trade chips.
Controllable starters Sean Manaea and Kendall Graveman, reliever Blake Treinen, sluggers Khris Davis and Ryon Healy and veteran utility man Jed Lowrie appear to be the most obvious trade candidates left on the roster. Manaea, in particular, has significant trade value with team control through 2022 and frontline-starter upside.
Maximizing those remaining assets will be the next big step in the rebuilding process.
     
Seattle Mariners: Starting pitching
The Mariners used an MLB-high 17 different starting pitchers during the 2017 season, so it should come as no surprise that shoring up the starting rotation is the biggest concern of the offseason.
James Paxton, Felix Hernandez and Mike Leake are locked into three spots on the staff—an emerging ace with a lengthy injury history and two veterans best suited as middle-of-the-rotation starters.
A run at someone like Yu Darvish or Jake Arrieta would be great, but in the big picture, what the team really needs is two starters capable of working 180 to 200 innings and providing some stability to the staff.
     
Texas Rangers: Starting pitching
No potential contender has a bigger question mark in the starting rotation than the Rangers.
Ace Cole Hamels is coming off a down season in which he went 11-6 with a 4.20 ERA while watching his strikeout rate plummet from 9.0 K/9 to 6.4.
Martin Perez (13-12, 4.82 ERA), A.J. Griffin (6-6, 5.94 ERA), Nick Martinez (3-8, 5.66 ERA) and prospect Yohander Mendez (7-8, 3.79 ERA in Double-A) would be the leading candidate to round out the staff if the 2018 season started today.
Bringing back Andrew Cashner is a possibility after he made good on a one-year deal, and he would need to be accompanied by at least one other capable middle-of-the-rotation starter if this team is going to have any chance of contending.

Atlanta Braves: Eating innings
The Braves are not ready to make the leap from rebuilding to contending just yet, so expect a similar approach to what we saw last offseason, when Bartolo Colon and R.A. Dickey were added on one-year deals to help eat up innings.
Prospects Max Fried and Luiz Gohara are ready to challenge for spots in the rotation alongside established starters Julio Teheran and Mike Foltynewicz as well as lefty Sean Newcomb, who showed flashes as a rookie. Adding at least one veteran workhorse should still be a priority.
Otherwise, the team risks leaning too heavily on inexperienced arms and potentially derailing their development as a result.
Unloading an outfielder to clear a path for Ronald Acuna and upgrading at third base will also be on the to-do list, but looking out for the best interest of the team's young arms is the biggest concern.
    
Miami Marlins: Trimming payroll
The Marlins' new owners have set a clear goal to trim the club's payroll to $90 million.
There is already $97.9 million on the books for 2018 and that figure is projected to climb by $27.5 million with arbitration raises—including $10.1 million for Marcell Ozuna.
Giancarlo Stanton ($25 million), Martin Prado ($13.5 million) and Dee Gordon ($10.8 million) have already been identified as three players the team would like to trade, and others like Edinson Volquez ($13 million) and Brad Ziegler ($9 million) will also be on the move if the front office can find a taker.
It's a major shift in direction for a team that was clearly trying to build a contender last offseason, but after residing in fringe contention purgatory for years, it's hard to argue that change was needed.
     
New York Mets: Starting pitching
Jacob deGrom was once again one of the best pitchers in the NL last season, going 15-10 with a 3.53 ERA, 1.19 WHIP and 239 strikeouts in 201.1 innings for a 4.4 WAR.
However, no other pitcher on the Mets roster topped 120 innings.
A healthy Noah Syndergaard will help after injuries limited him to just seven starts, but expecting anything from Matt Harvey (18 GS, 5-7, 6.70 ERA), Zack Wheeler (17 GS, 3-7, 5.21 ERA) and Steven Matz (13 GS, 2-7. 6.08 ERA) looks like a fool's errand at this point.
The front office didn't make a single outside addition last offseason. If it has any hope of righting the ship in 2018, that will have to change, starting with the addition of at least a couple durable starters.
     
Philadelphia Phillies: Spending smart
The Phillies have a ton of money to spend with just $6.35 million on the books and $19.2 million projected in arbitration salaries—a number that would drop by $7.4 million if the front office decides to trade or non-tender Freddy Galvis.
Spending wisely will be the biggest concern.
Adding one of the top starters on the market to join Aaron Nola atop the rotation is one way they could potentially splurge, while a power bat like J.D. Martinez would also look nice at one of the corner outfield spots.
Balancing an aggressive approach to improving the club, while still keeping the focus on rebuilding and one eye on the vaunted 2018-19 free-agent class should be the marching orders.
     
Washington Nationals: Relief pitching
Adding Sean Doolittle, Ryan Madson and Brandon Kintzler turned the Nationals bullpen from a glaring hole into a legitimate area of strength.
However, Kintzler is now a free agent and he's joined by Matt Albers, Oliver Perez and Joe Blanton.
With the impending free agency of Bryce Harper, Daniel Murphy and Gio Gonzalez looming over the 2018 season, there's no team that needs to be in "win-now" mode more than the Nationals.
With that in mind, they can't afford to let the relief corps become a weakness once again, so adding at least a couple quality late-inning arms figures to be a top priority.

Chicago Cubs: Relief pitching
An anemic offense was as much to blame for the Cubs flaming out in the NLCS as their shaky relief corps.
However, that same offense ranked fourth in the majors with 5.1 runs per game, so there's no question it's the bullpen that ranks as the biggest concern at the start of the offseason.
The first big decision will be whether to re-sign closer Wade Davis, who is the best late-inning reliever on the free-agent market and is projected by MLB Trade Rumors to get a four-year, $60 million deal.
After Carl Edwards Jr. flamed out in the postseason and Justin Wilson forgot how to throw strikes, the team really doesn't have a viable in-house option to replace him.
Signing at least one starting pitcher will also be on the docket, but rebuilding the bullpen should be the No. 1 priority.
     
Cincinnati Reds: Eating innings
Similar to the White Sox and Braves who were also given the "eating innings" distinction as their biggest concern, the Reds have a young staff that could use a proven workhorse to help shoulder some of the load.
Last offseason, Scott Feldman was signed to a one-year, $2.3 million deal and veteran Bronson Arroyo also broke camp with a rotation spot.
At this point, Luis Castillo is the only young starter who has truly established himself as a lock for a spot in the rotation.
However, Robert Stephenson, Amir Garrett, Sal Romano, Jackson Stephens, Tyler Mahle, Cody Reed and Rookie Davis all saw time in the majors in 2017 and they'll all get a look this spring.
Despite all of those in-house options, it would still be wise to add another low-cost veteran starter or even a swingman—someone like Yusmeiro Petit or Jesse Chavez—who can clean up 100 innings while filling various roles.
     
Milwaukee Brewers: Front-line starting pitching
Is the Brewers' current stable of starting pitching options good enough to make them legitimate contenders?
That's the question that needs to be answered this offseason as they look to take that next step.
Chase Anderson (12-4, 2.74 ERA), Jimmy Nelson (12-6, 3.49 ERA) and Zach Davies (17-9, 3.90 ERA) led a surprisingly good rotation in 2017, but all three come with significant question marks.
Anderson has never topped 160 innings in a season, Nelson is going to miss a significant chunk of 2018 following shoulder surgery, and Davies had some sketchy peripherals with a 4.22 FIP and just 5.8 K/9.
All three of those guys can be quality starters, but relying on any of them to be the true ace of the staff might be asking too much.
It's worth noting, MLB Trade Rumors predicted the Brewers as the landing spot for Jake Arrieta.
     
Pittsburgh Pirates: Deciding what to do with Andrew McCutchen
The Pirates' decision on what to do with McCutchen this offseason will be a clear look at what direction the club is headed.
If the front office intends to trade the longtime face of the franchise—who already had his $14.5 million option exercised—it could be the start of a more large-scale rebuild.
Ace Gerrit Cole and closer Felipe Rivero immediately jump to mind as valuable trade chips, and All-Star Josh Harrison would also have plenty of suitors thanks to his defensive versatility.
However, if McCutchen stays put, it means the Pirates think they can contend in 2018.
Regardless, the franchise is at a crossroads and that's always a concerning time for any fanbase.
     
St. Louis Cardinals: Making the best blockbuster trade decision
It almost feels like a foregone conclusion that the Cardinals are going to make a splashy trade of some sort this winter.
Giancarlo Stanton? Josh Donaldson? Someone else?
With an abundance of young outfielders, controllable pitching talent like Luke Weaver and Jack Flaherty and an MLB-ready catching prospect in Carson Kelly—who is blocked by franchise icon Yadier Molina—it's easy to assemble a hypothetical trade package for almost anyone the team targets.
It's deciding how to best use those assets without completely abandoning the mindset that has made this team a perennial contender that will be among the biggest decisions any team makes this offseason.

Arizona Diamondbacks: Re-signing J.D. Martinez
A case could be made that finding a closer to replace free agent Fernando Rodney is the biggest concern for the Diamondbacks, but Archie Bradley looks more than capable of stepping into that role if the team decides against an outside addition.
Instead, it's the decision on whether to bring back slugger J.D. Martinez that gets the nod.
Zack Greinke is already on the books for $126.5 million over the next four seasons, and Paul Goldschmidt remains a candidate for a massive extension with free agency awaiting after the 2019 season.
With that in mind, signing Martinez to a megadeal could put the franchise in a tough spot since they have a ton of money tied up in a few players. Think of the 2017 Detroit Tigers.
At the same time, the window to contend is open now and there's little doubt that re-upping with Martinez would give them the best chance to win.
     
Colorado Rockies: Rebuilding the bullpen
The Rockies improved from 30th (5.13) to 20th (4.40) in bullpen ERA this past season and that's perhaps the biggest reason they were able to reach the postseason on the heels of an 87-loss campaign.
They'll have some work to do this offseason to keep from sliding back down that leaderboard.
Greg Holland (61 G, 41/45 SV, 3.61 ERA), Jake McGee (62 G, 20 HLD, 3.61 ERA) and deadline-pickup Pat Neshek (71 G, 23 HLD, 1.59 ERA) are all free agents.
Bringing back Holland is a priority, per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, and the team feels he's "the right leader for their young team and staff" going forward.
However, Colorado can't break the bank bringing him back at the expense of filling out the rest of the relief corps.
     
Los Angeles Dodgers: Replacing Brandon Morrow
Unlike last offseason when Justin Turner, Kenley Jansen and Rich Hill all hit the open market and were eventually re-signed, the Dodgers don't have any marquee free agents.
The biggest name that could potentially walk is reliever Brandon Morrow.
The 33-year-old went from signing a minor league deal to emerging as the team's most trusted setup reliever. He posted a 2.06 ERA, 0.92 WHIP and 10.3 K/9 with 10 holds in 45 appearances before pitching in 14 of the team's 15 playoff games.
Joe Blanton filled a similar role in 2016 and the Dodgers let him walk, so it's not a foregone conclusion that re-signing Morrow will be a priority, especially considering his likely asking price. However, replacing him in some capacity is a must.
     
San Diego Padres: Eating innings
The Padres spent $8.25 million to sign Jhoulys Chacin, Trevor Cahill, Clayton Richard and Jered Weaver to one-year deals last offseason—filling out 80 percent of the starting rotation in the process.
Richard was re-signed to a two-year, $6 million deal and he'll be joined by young right-handers Dinelson Lamet and Luis Perdomo, but a similar approach is likely for filling the final two spots on the staff.
San Diego has one of the best farm systems in the league and it includes marquee pitching prospects like MacKenzie Gore, Cal Quantrill, Adrian Morejon, Anderson Espinoza and Michel Baez.
However, none of those pitchers is expected to arrive in the majors before 2019 and the team is still very much in the developmental stage of rebuilding at this point.
     
San Francisco Giants: Center field
The Giants have their work cut out for them this offseason as they look to turn things around following a 98-loss season while also staying below the luxury-tax threshold.
Adding a power bat like Giancarlo Stanton or J.D. Martinez to the middle of the lineup would be great, but upgrading in center field might be a more pressing concern.
Incumbent Denard Span was a league-average hitter (100 OPS+), but he was one of the worst defensive players in baseball (-27 DRS, -8.7 UZR/150) and that's especially detrimental in spacious AT&T Park.
While Lorenzo Cain is the big name on the free-agent market, guys like Jarrod Dyson, Carlos Gomez, Cameron Maybin and Austin Jackson would all represent significant upgrades at a much lower price point.
           
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs, while contract information comes via Spotrac.



The trade rumors are coming in fast and furious now, like a brushback pitch between heated rivals. Below, we'll break down a few of the more intriguing rumors surrounding some of the biggest names potentially on the trade block.
             
Jackie Bradley Jr.
The San Francisco Giants are reportedly interested in making a move for Boston Red Sox outfielder Jackie Bradley Jr., according to Jon Morosi of the MLB Network:
#SFGiants have interest in trading for Jackie Bradley Jr., among many outfield options they are currently considering, source says. @MLBNetwork @MLB
Context on #SFGiants interest in Jackie Bradley Jr.: The full extent of his availability in trade won’t be determined until #RedSox know if they’re adding a power-hitting outfielder. @MLB
That second tweet is perhaps key, with Giancarlo Stanton a potential target for the Red Sox (more on that later). 
Bradley, 27, is coming off a somewhat disappointing season after hitting just .245 with 17 homers, 63 RBI and 58 runs in 133 games. He couldn't quite build upon his breakout 2016 season when he ripped 26 home runs, 87 RBI and scored 94 runs.
The Giants could use an infusion of offense after finishing 29th in the NL in runs scored (639) in 2017 and 30th in homers (128). While Bradley wouldn't represent the potential offensive boon that a few of the players discussed below would offer, he would certainly be an upgrade in San Francisco's offense.
And if the Red Sox do make a move for Stanton, Bradley could either be a trade chip in a three-way deal or bring back a few prospects if they move some of their talented young players in a deal with the Marlins.
           
Giancarlo Stanton

No bigger name is likely to change uniforms than Stanton this offseason, and not surprisingly, no player has had more rumors this fall than the Miami slugger. Let's round up the latest.
Morosi reported on Friday that the Marlins have had "preliminary discussions" with the Red Sox, Giants, St. Louis Cardinals and Philadelphia Phillies, while Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports noted that the "Giants, Cardinals and Phillies have been the most consistent pursuers of Stanton since last summer."
Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald reported on Saturday that, "According to a Major League source, talks between the Red Sox and Marlins involving a trade for the slugger 'may be heating up.'"
He continued: "'They're definitely in play,' the source said of the Red Sox, who are at least exploring the possibility of acquiring the Majors' reigning home run king."
For the Red Sox, Stanton would be the sort of major splash the organization likes to make each winter. In St. Louis and San Francisco, meanwhile, he would be a much-needed infusion of power for rosters perhaps a superstar away from being playoff contenders. And in Philadelphia, he would be the face of the franchise for a team that has been undergoing a slow rebuild but may have several talented young players promoted from the farm system this upcoming season. 
Without question, Stanton's 59 home runs with 132 RBI make him intriguing for any team. It's his no-trade clause and the $295 million he's owed over the next 10 years—along with an opt-out in three years—that complicates matters.
Heyman added further context to the no-trade clause and how it could affect talks:
"[While] he only has said that he isn't up for a rebuild, telling FanRag Sports two months ago in late September that he'd prefer not to endure yet another rebuild, he has the option of declining any deal, and thus has a lot of the power. Though he hasn't discussed anything besides his preference to play for a competitive team, others around the team suspect he prefers one of the coasts, and possibly most prefers the West Coast if given the choice."
Advantage: Giants. But this trade saga should take plenty of twists and turns and could end up being one of the more complex transactions in recent memory when everything is settled.
              
Josh Donaldson
Alongside their interest in Stanton, the Cardinals are also gauging the Toronto Blue Jays willingness to trade former MVP Josh Donaldson, according to Derrick Goold of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
If the Cardinals fail to land Stanton, Donaldson would be a heck of a consolation prize. The Blue Jays third baseman has ripped 101 homers and 300 RBI the past three seasons in Toronto, establishing himself as one of the top power hitters in baseball.
But would Toronto—following a disappointing 76-86 season—be willing to deal their 31-year-old slugger?
At the moment, the answer appears to be no. Anthony Castrovince of MLB.com reported Friday that the team has "zero intention" of trading Donaldson despite his looming free agency. Things change fast, of course, but perhaps put a pin in this rumor for now.



One of them inspired a comparison to fellow Yankees star Derek Jeter, which sounds pretty good until you find out someone compared the other one to Ted Williams. One of them set a National League record with 39 home runs as a rookie, which would have gotten him much more attention except the other one set the major league rookie record by blasting 52.
We're not really here to pit Aaron Judge against Cody Bellinger, although it's understandable why anyone would do that on the day both will add Rookie of the Year to their resumes. Judge, the New York Yankees right fielder, is the certain winner in the American League. Bellinger, the Los Angeles Dodgers first baseman, is just as sure to win in the National League.
There is one other rare trait nearly as crucial to their instant success as their record-setting power, impressive maturity and limitless gifts. They can play their best and stand their tallest under the biting pressure of New York and L.A.
The stage that has swallowed up so many promising young careers is the same environment these two thrive in. They are seemingly tailor-made for it. 
On this day, there's no need to pick between the two. No need for baseball to pick either because the sport will benefit from having two young, likable power-hitting stars on the most prominent teams in the two biggest markets in the country.
"One is playing right field in New York, just like [Roger] Maris did, and he's hitting home runs like Maris," said Charley Steiner, who once worked in New York as the Yankees' radio voice and is now in Los Angeles broadcasting Dodgers games. "The other one wasn't even supposed to come up until September, and then when he did come up, the entire dynamic of the lineup changed."

Judge is the face of the new Yankees, the Baby Bombers as the tabloids took to calling them. Without him, they'd still be rebuilding. With him, they went to Game 7 of the American League Championship Series.
Bellinger was the key piece that made the Dodgers lineup complete. Los Angeles was off to a sub-.500 start when it called him up in late April and then went an incredible 76-21 in the first 97 games he started. Eventually, the team went to Game 7 of the World Series.
It's not entirely fair to compare the two because Bellinger joined a Dodgers team that had already won four straight division titles. Judge's Yankees hadn't won a postseason game since 2012. It's not entirely fair because the Dodgers had plenty of other stars (including Corey Seager, the 2016 NL Rookie of the Year), while Yankees fans were still looking for someone to love.
It's also not fair because Bellinger is three years younger (22 compared to 25), and while the first baseman isn't small (the Dodgers list him at 6'4", 210 lbs), Judge (6'7", 282 lbs) stands out in any crowd.
Latest B/R Videos Worth a Watch
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
When I asked Steiner if there was a buzz around Bellinger at Dodger Stadium this year, he said, "Yes, but not like Judge [at Yankee Stadium] because Judge is Paul Bunyan. There's a physical presence, and that's part of what people perceive.
"He's Paul Bunyan."
Judge was also the star of the 2017 Home Run Derby before the All-Star Game, when Commissioner Rob Manfred said he "can become the face of the game." He was the unanimous winner of the "Talk of the Town" award from the New York chapter of the Baseball Writers Association of America. He's the cover boy for the "MLB The Show 18" video game.
All Rise. We are proud to feature @MLBTheShow 18’s newest cover athlete! https://t.co/dDZsnlTe0F #TheShow18 https://t.co/TJeVq9h8th
Oh, and he's one of the three finalists for the AL Most Valuable Player award, which will be announced Thursday at 6 p.m. ET on MLB Network.
"If I was a GM, I want him on my team because he plays the right way, and he's very humble," Houston Astros second baseman Jose Altuve, Judge's main competition for MVP, said during the ALCS. "Maybe in another life I want to be Aaron Judge and hit all those homers."
The homers are a big deal for both Judge and Bellinger. Judge hit 52 of them in 155 games for the Yankees, while Bellinger hit 39 in 132 games for the Dodgers. Judge hit his farther (an average of 412 feet, according to MLB.com's Statcast, compared to 394 feet for Bellinger), but Judge benefits from playing in a more home run-friendly ballpark. (ESPN's Park Factor had Yankee Stadium as the second-best home run park in baseball in 2017, while Dodger Stadium tied for 15th.)
Bellinger better fits the 2017 trend of trying to hit everything in the air (47.1 percent of his balls in play were fly balls, according to FanGraphs, compared to 43.2 percent for Judge). Both of them strike out at a rate that would have been considered alarming in earlier times (Judge led MLB with 208 strikeouts in 2017, while Bellinger's 26.6 percent strikeout rate would have been highest in the majors any year from 1980-85). Both had rough stretches in the postseason before eventually hitting a few big home runs.
Both are above-average defensively too, although Bellinger has the edge there. One National League scout called him "the best defensive first baseman on the planet" and said he could also be a plus at all three outfield spots.

The bigger comparison, though, is what Judge and Bellinger can mean for their teams in the years to come. Both play in big markets, obviously, for teams with huge resources and expectations. After the way 2017 went for the Dodgers and Yankees, it's a given that both franchises will go into 2018 believing it's time to win a World Series.
The Dodgers have a strong young core, led by Bellinger and Seager. The Yankees do too, with Judge and catcher Gary Sanchez, who finished second in AL Rookie of the Year voting in 2016. The Dodgers have more prospects on the way, and the Yankees do too.
"You can't believe the talent [the Yankees] have coming," one National League scout who follows their system closely said.
The expectations will be high both in New York and in Los Angeles, but that shouldn't bother Judge and Bellinger. Both were well-known by fans before they even got to the big leagues.
"Bellinger understands who he is, and he understands the accountability of playing for the Dodgers," said Ned Colletti, who was Los Angeles' general manager when it drafted Bellinger and now works on Dodgers broadcasts for SportsNet LA. "He didn't live up to expectations. He exceeded them. And this market, like New York, is not a place for second-best."
Bellinger was the higher-rated prospect when he and Judge were in the minor leagues, but Judge faced bigger scrutiny this year in the big leagues. Once he got off to a big start—Judge had 13 home runs in 25 games by May 3—the Yankees made him a focus of their marketing. Playing off his name, they used "All Rise" as a slogan and dubbed a section of seats in right field the "Judge's Chambers."
Right around that time, Yankees manager Joe Girardi made the Jeter comparison.

"He's a little bit like Derek for me," Girardi said, per Andrew Marchand of ESPN.com. "He has a smile all the time. He loves to play the game. You always think he is going to do the right thing on the field and off the field. He has a presence about him. He plays the game to win all the time, and that is the most important thing. It is not about what you did that day."
Across the country, the Dodgers weren't marketing Bellinger the same way. They had Seager and Justin Turner and Clayton Kershaw, among others, so there wasn’t the need to latch onto the newest star. But Bellinger quickly got hot, with nine home runs in May and 13 in June, and a big-name comparison came his way too.
"I was at a game with a veteran scout, a guy who you can never get to really praise young players," one National League scout said. "He saw Bellinger, and he said, 'That's the closest I've seen to Ted Williams. That life, and that power.' And this guy played with Ted Williams."
Anyone who watched baseball the last couple of Octobers understands the sport is blessed with a large group of charismatic young stars. From Kris Bryant and Anthony Rizzo with the Chicago Cubs to Francisco Lindor with the Cleveland Indians and Carlos Correa with the Houston Astros, there's plenty of competition when it comes to finding a face of the game.
Judge and Bellinger fit right in. Because they play for teams in the two biggest markets, for teams that figure to be in the spotlight for a few years to come, they might stand out even more.
"I love [Judge's] mindset, and I love his behavior," said former major league pitcher Al Leiter, who calls some Yankees games for the YES Network.
"From the time we drafted him, [Bellinger] had tremendous presence and intellect," Colletti said. "He and Seager were both far above their years in their ability to adjust to situations. Both are good people, solid guys you want on your team."
Not every Rookie of the Year goes on to be a big star in the game. But sometimes you have a guy like Jeter, who won the award in 1996, just as he and his team were on the way to dominating baseball. Sometimes you have a year when the Rookie of the Year in the National League and the American League both stand out, just as Bryce Harper and Mike Trout did in 2012 and Bryant and Correa did in 2015.
And then you have a year with two sluggers, playing for two of the biggest teams in the game in the two biggest cities in the country.
You have Aaron Judge and Cody Bellinger, and you just imagine how exciting the years ahead can be.
These incredible kids are built for the bright lights and pressure of New York and Los Angeles, and that bulletproof mindset will ensure their limitless star power never burns out.
Danny Knobler covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report.
Follow Danny on Twitter and talk baseball.


Mookie Betts just picked up a Gold Glove award last week for his work as a right fielder for the Boston Red Sox, but baseball isn't the only sport in which he dominates.
On Sunday, Betts bowled a perfect 300 game in the Pro Bowlers Association World Series of Bowling.
The 2016 American League MVP runner-up has been bowling since he was a child. He learned the game from his mother, Diana, who was a competitive bowler.
Red Sox fans would love to see Betts lead their team to the MLB World Series in 2018.
[PBABowling]



The Atlanta Braves reportedly have their new general manager.
On Sunday, Joel Sherman of the New York Post reported Alex Anthopoulos will receive the job, and an official announcement could come at the general manager meetings this week.  
Sherman noted John Hart will remain as the team's president of baseball operations for the time being but called him more of a "counsel/figurehead." Sherman said Anthopoulos will make final baseball-related decisions.
This news comes after Jon Morosi of MLB Network reported on Oct. 2 former Braves general manager John Coppolella resigned because of a "breach of Major League Baseball rules regarding the international player market."
According to SportsNet, Anthopoulos was most recently the vice president of baseball operations for the Los Angeles Dodgers but was general manager of the Toronto Blue Jays from 2009 through 2015.
The Jays reached the American League Championship Series in 2015 and won 93 regular-season games, marking the first time they reached the 90-win plateau since they were World Series champions in 1993.
Anthopoulos will take over a Braves team looking to reestablish itself as a National League contender. Atlanta missed the playoffs and finished with a losing record in each of the last four years, but the future does look bright.
Jim Callis of MLB.com provided the website's rankings of the farm systems across the league, and the Braves checked in at second place behind only the Chicago White Sox. What's more, Atlanta was ranked as the best farm system before the 2017 campaign and features a collection of talented young players, including outfielder Ronald Acuna, infielder Ozzie Albies and pitcher Kolby Allard.



Major League Baseball continues to spread its influence internationally by adding a series in Mexico next season.
According to Bill Shaikin of the Los Angeles Times, the San Diego Padres will host the Los Angeles Dodgers for three games between May 4-6 in Monterrey, Mexico.
Players would reportedly receive a $15,000 bonus for participating in the series.
There haven't been any MLB regular-season games played outside the United States or Canada since the Dodgers opened their 2014 season against the Arizona Diamondbacks in Australia. However, the league announced a plan for many more games over the next few years.
According to Vince Lara-Cinisomo of Baseball America, the league is hoping to create series in Asia, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom and possibly the Dominican Republic from 2018-2021. The Cleveland Indians and Minnesota Twins will compete in Puerto Rico during an April series in 2018.
The Dodgers had three players, Adrian Gonzalez, Julio Urias and Alex Verdugo, represent Team Mexico during the World Baseball Classic, while Padres third baseman Christian Villanueva was born in Guadalajara.



The St. Louis Cardinals have "had discussions already with Miami about trading for MVP candidate Giancarlo Stanton," according to Derrick Goold of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. 
Goold added, "Both teams expect conversations to continue this week and gain clarity, with the Cardinals described by one source as 'determined' in their interest."
Per that report, the Cardinals are also interested in Marlins outfielders Christian Yelich and Marcell Ozuna. The Cardinals are interested in upgrading at reliever as well and "whether the Blue Jays would be willing to trade former MVP Josh Donaldson remains an interest to the Cardinals, as does gauging the availability of slick-fielding shortstops."
The Cardinals appear willing to make a splash this offseason after missing the postseason the past two years.
As Goold continued, the Cardinals believe they have the young pieces that would intrigue a team like the Marlins, namely the organization's pitching prospects.
Certainly, adding Stanton would be a major splash. The slugger was superb in 2017, hitting .281 with 59 homers, 132 RBI and a 1.007 OPS. He would offer a significant power bat to the middle of the Cardinals lineup, and from a performance perspective, his potential addition is a no-brainer.
But Stanton still has 10 years and $295 million remaining on his massive contract, with an opt-out clause in 2020. He also has a no-trade clause, meaning he could block any agreements between the Cardinals and Marlins. Even if Stanton would agree to waive his no-trade clause, the Cardinals and Marlins may have a hard time agreeing on the amount of money Miami would be willing to pay on Stanton's remaining contract, if any at all.
Stanton may yet be a Cardinal by Opening Day. But any trade for him will undoubtedly be complex.



The San Francisco Giants are reportedly interested in a potential trade for Boston Red Sox outfielder Jackie Bradley Jr., though it's unclear if he's available in a deal.
Jon Morosi of MLB Network reported Bradley is among the names the Giants are considering to fill a need in the outfield.
Bradley, 27, hit .245/.323/.402 with 17 home runs and 63 runs batted in last season. He is headed into his second year of arbitration this winter.
The Red Sox have made no known efforts to trade Bradley, who is widely considered one of the best—if not the best—defensive outfielders in the sport. FanGraphs' WAR formula had Bradley as a 2.3-win player in 2017, nearly all of which came from his defensive output. Their grades actually had him as a net negative offensively, which was a stark change from 2016.
The 2016 campaign saw Bradley break out at the plate, setting a career high with 26 home runs and 87 runs batted in. It was the first time in his career he had been more productive as an offensive player than on the defensive side.
The Giants are expected to be among the most active teams this winter after a disappointing 64-98 campaign. They have already been mentioned as a potential destination for Miami Marlins outfielder Giancarlo Stanton, who is the biggest trade chip on the market this offseason.



Former MLB pitcher Josh Beckett was reportedly arrested for public intoxication in Texas after allegedly attacking the singer of a country band.
On Saturday, TMZ Sports noted officers arrived on scene and determined the 2003 World Series MVP was a "danger to himself and others." The singer told police he suffered serious injuries, most notably a torn rotator cuff and dislocated shoulder.
A police report filed in the case stated Beckett admitted to "stage diving," and his lawyer told TMZ Sports it was an "act of horseplay" and he's apologized for his actions.
On Monday, TMZ Sports shared Beckett's mugshot:
Josh Beckett's Drunken Mug Shot After Alleged Band Attack https://t.co/GeBE0igeRG
The 37-year-old Texas native spent 14 years in the major leagues with the then-Florida Marlins, Boston Red Sox and Los Angeles Dodgers before retiring after the 2014 season. He posted a 3.88 ERA and 1.23 WHIP across 335 regular-season appearances.
Along with the World Series MVP, his resume includes three All-Star Game selections and two championships, one with the Marlins in 2003 and another with the Red Sox in 2007. He also threw a no-hitter for L.A. against the Philadelphia Phillies in 2014.
Beckett's lawyer told TMZ Sports his client "is trying to do what he can to make amends."



The Miami Marlins have reportedly already engaged in "preliminary communication" with multiple teams regarding a potential Giancarlo Stanton trade.
Jon Morosi of MLB Network reported the news Friday, noting the talks have occurred with the Boston Red Sox, St. Louis Cardinals, San Francisco Giants and Philadelphia Phillies. Morosi noted the conversations are "expected to intensify at" the general manager meetings in the coming week.
While Morosi also pointed to the Red Sox, he echoes a Thursday report from Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports.
According to Heyman, St. Louis is a "prime player" for Stanton, while the Phillies and Giants are also interested. Heyman specifically pointed to the Cardinals, though, noting the Marlins would "most like" to deal with them because of pitching prospects such as Alex Reyes, Sandy Alcantara and Jack Flaherty.
While it may make little sense to trade a dynamic player like Stanton from a purely baseball perspective, Miami's new ownership is reportedly looking to significantly cut payroll.
According to Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald, the new ownership—which includes New York Yankees great Derek Jeter—would like to cut payroll to $90 million. If it keeps the roster together as is, the payroll would be $140 million.
Trading Stanton would be a straightforward way to take a serious amount of cash off the books. The slugger made $14.5 million in 2017 but will collect at least $25 million in each of the next 11 seasons and has player options from 2021-27 and a club option in 2028, per Spotrac.
It will be a costly addition, but whichever team trades for Stanton will instantly bolster their lineup with a 28-year-old who slashed .281/.376/.631 with 59 home runs and 132 RBI in 2017.



Minnesota Twins outfielder Byron Buxton was named the 2017 MLB Defensive Player of the Year on Friday during an awards presentation emanating from MLB Network studios in Secaucus, New Jersey.
The honors, which are separate from the Gold Glove Awards voted on by managers and coaches from around baseball, are based on a mathematical formula that includes defensive Wins Above Replacement, Defensive Runs Saved and Inside Edge metrics along with basic fielding percentage.
Buxton takes over the crown as the top overall defender from Boston Red Sox outfielder Mookie Betts.
                    
2017 Defensive Player of the Year Winners
Overall: Byron Buxton (Minnesota Twins)
Catcher: Martin Maldonado (Los Angeles Angels)
First Base: Carlos Santana (Cleveland Indians)
Second Base: DJ LeMahieu (Colorado Rockies)
Third Base: Nolan Arenado (Rockies)
Shortstop: Andrelton Simmons (Angels)
Left Field: Alex Gordon (Kansas City Royals)
Center Field: Byron Buxton (Twins)
Right Field: Yasiel Puig (Los Angeles Dodgers)
Pitcher: Tyler Chatwood (Rockies)
Defensive Team of the Year: Dodgers
               
Recap and Reaction
The Twins are being rewarded for giving Buxton time to develop. The prized prospect struggled to establish himself in the majors across his first two years. In 2017, Minnesota let him play through some slumps en route to 140 games, and he finally started to showcase his immense talent.
His fielding is just one example of that success. He posted a plus-seven DRS across the 2015 and 2016 seasons combined. That number jumped to 24 during this past year alone, which ranked third in MLB behind only Simmons and Betts, the last two winners of Defensive Player of the Year.
Buxton also led all players with a 27.8 percent conversion rate on defensive plays Inside Edge deemed to have between a 1 and 10 percent chance of being turned into an out.
Inside Edge provided further details about the 23-year-old rising star's fielding prowess:
Byron Buxton of the @Twins wins the outright Wilson Defensive Player of the Year. Inside Edge rated him as the best defensive player this season.

He made 96% of plays in his zone, the highest of any player in the #MLB
MLB provided a look at some of his top defensive plays throughout 2017:
.@OfficialBuck103 had a historic season in center field. 

He’s @wilsonballglove's Defensive Player of the Year. https://t.co/u9Rm3B6oMw https://t.co/JCPsrbA78X
Meanwhile, Simmons gained more widespread attention this season due to his improvement at the plate. He posted a career-best .752 OPS with 19 stolen bases and 14 home runs to become a more reliable all-around contributor. But his work in the field has always been among the best in baseball.
The 28-year-old three-time Gold Glove Award winner owns a career plus-163 DRS figure and finished none of his six MLB seasons with a mark below plus-18. His plus-32 DRS during the 2017 campaign was one run better than Betts for the top spot among all fielders.
Angels first base coach Alfredo Griffin, who spent 18 years as a major league shortstop, provided high praise of Simmons' defensive ability back in July, per Mark Whicker of the Los Angeles Daily News.
"He's always moving over there, always talking, always doing something," he said. "You see him laughing with the baserunner at second base, but what he's doing is trying to keep him from getting our signs. And he doesn't get caught flat-footed. He thinks he can make every play, thinks he can throw behind the baserunners, but they all know him now. I really think if he just settled down, he could go through a whole season without making an error. He could do that."
Wilson Ball Gloves‏ noted Simmons' consistent success capturing Defensive Player of the Year Awards:
@Andrelton continues to dazzle from the shortstop position. He takes home his FOURTH #DPOY Award. Amazing. https://t.co/yOtHQXXsdz
Here's a look at more reaction to Friday's announcements:
He led AL first basemen in:
Defensive Runs Saved
Assists
Double plays started

Congrats to Carlos Santana on his @wilsonballglove Defensive Player of the Year Award! https://t.co/OKpzJm2bKG
For the third year in a row, Nolan Arenado brings home the #DPOY Award for third base. Dude is a straight-up stud. https://t.co/ES3qYujDSY
Your @wilsonballglove #DPOY at 2B is the @Rockies' @DJLeMahieu! https://t.co/inHDCu6pQL
Alex Gordon remains a game changer with the glove. He’s the Wilson Defensive Player of the Year in LF. https://t.co/4UlEybM3Rq
#PuigYourWinner! The @Dodgers' @YasielPuig wins the @wilsonballglove #DPOY Award for RF. https://t.co/QBHX8Purnl
Looking ahead, Aaron Hicks is a name to keep in mind for defensive awards in 2018. The New York Yankees center fielder wasn't a strong candidate this year since he only played 88 games, but he would have finished 17th on the DRS list at plus-12 if he had enough innings to qualify.
Better health combined with a more regular starting spot in center since Jacoby Ellsbury will likely be playing more designated hitter if he's not traded could give Hicks a chance to ascend toward the top of the advanced fielding metrics after sizable improvement in 2017.
                  
All statistics are courtesy of FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.



It's barely been one week since the Houston Astros were crowned World Series champions, but the calendar's switch to November has had all 30 Major League Baseball teams anxiously planning their strategy for 2018 and beyond. 
Free agency has officially started and players are eligible to be traded, but it's unlikely there will be significant activity by any clubs until the winter meetings begin on Dec. 10. General managers are working hard to figure things out now, even though it's logistically easier to negotiate things when everyone is in the same place. 
With the trade winds starting to swirl around MLB, here are the latest rumors that will be talked about until there is some resolution during the long winter. 
        
A's Watching Miami

Even though there will likely be big-market players, like the Boston Red Sox and Philadelphia Phillies, keeping an eye on what happens with the Miami Marlins, one surprise candidate has emerged for two of Miami's potential trade chips. 
Per Susan Slusser of the San Francisco Chronicle, the Oakland Athletics are mainly interested in Marcell Ozuna and will keep an eye on Christian Yelich. 
Slusser noted the A's would prefer to add a right-handed hitter, which is why Ozuna would be their preferred choice between the two Miami stars.
Oakland is in an interesting spot in terms of roster construction heading into 2018. Slusser reported last month the team had made Ryon Healy, who hit 25 home runs in 149 games last season, available in trade talks. 
Healy is basically a power-hitting designated hitter who will post low on-base totals, including a .302 mark in 2017, and the A's already have an abundance of power hitters like Matt Chapman, Khris Davis and Matt Olson. 
The A's are in a terrific financial position to add payroll with three players under a guaranteed contract next season totaling $18 million, not including arbitration-eligible players, per Cot's Baseball Contracts.
Coming off a career season with a .924 OPS and 37 home runs, Ozuna is going into his second year of arbitration and is projected to make $10.9 million. He's only under team control through 2019, so the A's have to believe they are capable of competing for a playoff spot immediately to make a deal worth their while. 
Yelich would offer more long-term stability for the A's, who went 75-87 last season. He's signed to a long-term deal through 2021 with a team option for 2022. The 25-year-old has turned into an excellent hitter with a career .290/.369/.432 slash line.
Because the A's play in a big stadium, Ozuna's power would make him more attractive in the middle of their lineup. Yelich would be able to slot into one of the top two spots in the order, setting the table for Chapman, Davis and Olson. 
       
Bad Fantasy Baseball Trades

The technical definition of a challenge trade is one player under a bad contract being traded for another player under a bad contract, with the teams involved hoping a change of scenery will return each player to their former glory. 
Per Phil Rogers of MLB.com, the San Francisco Giants have interest in Jason Heyward and could attempt to build an offer around reliever Mark Melancon and starter Jeff Samardzija.
It's not exactly a one-to-one challenge deal, but this would match the definition of two teams trying to move bad contracts and hoping to catch lightning in a bottle. 
Before anyone gets too excited about either side being able to pull this off, Henry Schulman of the San Francisco Chronicle reported there have been no discussions between the Giants and Cubs about any of the players Rogers mentioned. 
Heyward has been a massive disappointment in his two seasons with the Cubs. The 28-year-old has hit .243/.315/.353 with 18 home runs in 268 games since signing an eight-year, $184 million deal in Dec. 2015. 
By FanGraphs offensive value, Heyward's minus-27.5 over the past two seasons ranks 43rd out of 44 qualified outfielders. He does have opt-out clauses in his contract after 2018 and 2019, but it seems like a long shot either will be used since no team will pay him close to the $134.2 million he's still owed through 2023. 
Melancon and Samardzija aren't exactly All-Stars at this stage of their careers. Melancon posted a 4.50 ERA with 37 hits allowed in 30 innings, lost his closing job to Sam Dyson and had forearm surgery in September. 
Samardzija did post an excellent strikeout rate (8.9 per nine innings) and strikeout-to-walk ratio (6.41), but his 1.3 home runs allowed per nine innings was his highest total since becoming a full-time starter in 2012. 
In two of the past three seasons, Samardzija has posted an ERA of at least 4.42. He's owed $19.8 million in each of the next three seasons, and Melancon is owed a total of $53 million through 2020. 
The Cubs do have a need for help in the starting rotation and bullpen with Jake Arrieta, John Lackey and Wade Davis all being free agents. But the Giants' duo is owed a lot of money after producing little value in 2017. 
Heyward's defensive ability in right field would fit nicely in the spacious AT&T Park outfield, but the last thing the Giants need coming off a 98-loss season is to add another bad hitter signed for the next six years. 
     
Contract info via Baseball-Reference.com unless otherwise indicated. 



The month of November tends to be the calm before the storm when it comes to the MLB offseason. Things will kick into gear at the annual winter meetings, which begin Dec. 10 in Orlando, Florida.
In the meantime, we've taken a crack at nailing down what the biggest offseason move will be for all 30 MLB teams.
That could mean a major free-agent signing, a blockbuster trade acquisition, a major trade chip being moved for prospects or even a lucrative extension for an in-house player.
The goal here was to project what one move, once the dust settles and spring training arrives, will be the most impactful for each club.

Baltimore Orioles: Trade RP Zach Britton
With a projected salary of $12.2 million in his final year of arbitration, Britton would be the fifth-highest-paid player on the Orioles roster.
The starting rotation needs to add at least two—and perhaps three—capable arms, and there's a viable in-house replacement to fill the closer's role in Brad Brach.
Flipping Britton in a thin market for proven late-inning arms and lefties would net a significant return, even after he missed time last season with a forearm strain. It sounds like the front office is going to shop in the bargain aisle when it comes to addressing the rotation, and a Britton trade would rank as the most impactful move of the winter.
                     
Boston Red Sox: Sign 1B Carlos Santana
The Red Sox had the most potent offense in baseball during the 2016 season, leading the majors in runs per game (5.4) and finishing ninth in home runs (208). But those numbers fell precipitously this past season as they dropped to 10th in runs per game (4.8) and 27th in home runs (168).
Signing a big bat at first base seems like the obvious way to add some thump with Mitch Moreland departing in free agency.
The switch-hitting Santana has legitimate 30-homer power, a .365 career on-base percentage, strong career numbers at Fenway Park (.827 OPS, 5 HR), and he should come cheaper than Eric Hosmer—who has never topped 25 home runs in a season.
                         
New York Yankees: Sign SP/DH Shohei Otani
It's far from a foregone conclusion that Otani will sign with the Yankees, but they're a popular pick as the early favorites to land the Japanese star.
The dynamic two-way standout would give the Yankees a 23-year-old with legitimate ace potential to lead the rotation into the future and a legitimate power bat to deploy as they see fit between starts.
He'd also be a marketing dream in the Big Apple, and the money he'd make in endorsements would go a long way toward offsetting his limited earning potential as a result of international free-agency restrictions.
Then again, a murky posting situation could throw a wrench into his stateside transition.
                        
Tampa Bay Rays: Trade SP Jake Odorizzi
It's going to take a King's ransom to pry Chris Archer away from the Rays and rightfully so. The four years and $30.25 million remaining on his contract make him one of the most valuable assets in the game.
A deal to acquire Odorizzi might come a bit easier.
The 27-year-old has gone 40-36 with a 3.81 ERA and 1.22 WHIP while averaging 30 starts and 167 innings over the past four seasons since becoming a full-time member of the Tampa Bay rotation.
He's under team control for two more seasons, and his salary is set to jump from $4.1 million to a projected $6.5 million in arbitration. Moving him would free up some salary, bring back a decent prospect return and open up a rotation spot for the impending arrival of Brent Honeywell.
            
Toronto Blue Jays: Extend SP Marcus Stroman
A popular breakout candidate in 2016, Stroman delivered what many expected and emerged as a front-line starter. It just took an extra year.
The 26-year-old went 13-9 with a 3.09 ERA while topping 200 innings for a second consecutive season—putting to rest any lingering questions about whether his 5'8" frame would hold up over a starter's workload.
Stroman earned $3.4 million this season, and that's projected to jump to $7.2 million in his second year of arbitration. While it's unclear what direction the Blue Jays are headed in the years to come, locking up Stroman should be a priority.
Buying out his final three years of arbitration and a year or two of free agency would be a great move.

Chicago White Sox: Sign SP Clay Buchholz
The White Sox took a chance on bounce-back candidate Derek Holland last offseason to fill out the rotation, and a similar signing or two this winter figures to be on the to-do list.
Buchholz made just two starts last season with the Philadelphia Phillies before undergoing forearm surgery, but that didn't stop him from making his mark on the young staff.
"I tried to be a sponge with it and share the wealth with the younger guys that don't really have a feel for what's going on and how and why," Buchholz told Todd Zolecki of MLB.com. "I've gotten to know a lot of guys in here, being able to talk from my point of view. I've been as good as you can be, and I've been as bad as you can be in this game."
He sounds like a great fit for a White Sox team that will be leaning heavily on young arms in 2018.
                   
Cleveland Indians: Re-sign OF Jay Bruce
Whether it's as a replacement for Carlos Santana at first base or as insurance for the oft-injured Michael Brantley in the outfield, bringing back Bruce looks like a good move for the Indians.
The 30-year-old posted an .808 OPS with seven home runs and 26 RBI in 43 games with the Tribe, and he finished the 2017 season with 36 home runs and 101 RBI.
Given the current market for fairly one-dimensional power bats, a three-year deal in the $45 million range seems reasonable, and that should be in the price range of an Indians team looking to win now.
                           
Detroit Tigers: Trade RP Shane Greene
What's left for the Tigers to trade?
Controllable starter Michael Fulmer is going to carry a steep asking price, and veteran second baseman Ian Kinsler has a partial no-trade clause. Glove-first shortstop Jose Iglesias is a year removed from free agency, but he's not all that different from free agent Alcides Escobar.
All of that might make reliever Shane Greene the team's most likely trade chip.
The 28-year-old posted a 2.66 ERA and 9.7 K/9 with nine saves and 14 holds in 71 appearances in his first full season in the bullpen. He's under team control through 2020 and carries a team-friendly $1.7 million projected salary for the upcoming season, which should be enough to bring back a couple of quality prospects.
     
Kansas City Royals: Re-sign 1B Eric Hosmer
Hosmer might not be a true superstar, but the fact that he just turned 28 in October makes him one of the most attractive free agents on the market and a strong candidate for a six-year deal well north of $100 million.
The Royals are well aware that he won't come cheap, yet it sounds like they're ready to make a strong push to retain the homegrown slugger, according to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports.
Whether it makes sense for a team that's headed for a rebuild to throw a nine-figure deal at a first baseman isn't the argument here, and a reunion with the Royals still looks like a real possibility.
                                              
Minnesota Twins: Sign RP Steve Cishek
While Brandon Kintzler and Matt Belisle did an admirable job holding down the closer's role for the Twins, both pitchers are now gone, and they'll undoubtedly be looking for a more traditional ninth-inning arm.
Breaking the bank for Wade Davis or Addison Reed doesn't make much sense as they continue to build for the future, but a buy-low deal for former Marlins closer Steve Cishek looks like a good fit.
The 31-year-old was quietly brilliant after joining the Rays just before the July 31 non-waiver trade deadline, posting a 1.09 ERA, 0.81 WHIP and 9.5 K/9 in 26 appearances.
MLB Trade Rumors predicts a two-year, $14 million deal. If that is in fact Cishek's price tag, the Twins should jump at the chance to add a pitcher with 121 career saves who finished last season on a high note.

Houston Astros: Acquire RP Brad Hand
The Astros don't have a ton of needs to address, but finding a quality lefty to add to the relief corps figures to be at or near the top of the to-do list.
Tony Sipp (46 G, 5.79 ERA) and Reymin Guduan (22 G, 7.88 ERA) are the only southpaw relievers on the 40-man roster.
After signing Sipp to an ill-advised three-year, $18 million extension, the front office might prefer making a play for Brad Hand and his two cost-controlled years of arbitration. The alternative would be shelling out another big free-agency deal for Mike Minor, Jake McGee or Tony Watson.
I explored what a potential Hand-to-Houston trade might look like earlier this week.
                        
Los Angeles Angels: Sign 3B Mike Moustakas
Third base (.724 OPS, tied for 22nd in MLB) and left-handed hitting (.689 OPS, 30th in MLB) were both major weaknesses for the Angels this past season.
Moustakas could kill two birds with one stone.
The 29-year-old slugged a franchise-record 38 home runs for the Royals, and while his on-base skills are lacking (.314 OBP, 5.7 BB%), he'd still be a huge upgrade at the hot corner thanks to his run production ability.
A five-year, $85 million deal like the one that MLB Trade Rumors predicted wouldn't break the bank, and his age means the team would be paying for mostly prime production.
          
Oakland Athletics: Trade SP Sean Manaea
The A's are committed to the idea of a "major rebuild," per Susan Slusser of the San Francisco Chronicle, and that could mean more wheeling and dealing this offseason after the team moved Sonny Gray and others over the summer.
Khris Davis, Kendall Graveman, Blake Treinen, Liam Hendriks, Jed Lowrie and Matt Joyce are all potential trade candidates, but the most valuable chip on the roster is left-hander Sean Manaea.
The 25-year-old has legitimate front-line starter upside, and he's under team control through the 2022 season.
He won't even be arbitration-eligible until next offseason, and flipping him now in a thin market for starting pitching might be the best way to maximize his value.
                         
Seattle Mariners: Sign SP Yu Darvish
The Mariners used 17 different starting pitchers in 2017, and they have two open spots to fill in the rotation behind James Paxton, Felix Hernandez and Mike Leake.
A strong early push to sign Darvish would fill one of those spots with a top-tier starter and could also help the team's pursuit of Japanese star Shohei Otani.
Otani and Darvish are friends and offseason workout partners, so the idea of their being a package deal this offseason is not out of the realm of possibility.
Even if signing Darvish doesn't also bring Otani aboard, he could be a big enough addition for the team to finally snap a playoff drought that stretches back to 2001.
                           
Texas Rangers: Sign CF Lorenzo Cain
Shoring up the starting rotation with at least a couple of new faces and/or a new contract for Andrew Cashner will be the top priority for the Rangers this offseason.
However, the most impactful addition could come in the outfield.
Signing Cain to play center field, shifting Delino DeShields Jr. (7 DRS, 11.5 UZR/150) to left field and using Shin-Soo Choo (-6 DRS, -15.4 UZR/150) as the full-time designated hitter would improve the outfield defensive twofold.
Cain's .363 on-base percentage would also be a welcome addition to a lineup that finished tied for 18th in the majors in on-base percentage (.320) this past season.

Atlanta Braves: Sign 3B Todd Frazier
Third base is an obvious area for the Braves to address this winter.
Adonis Garcia, Rio Ruiz and Johan Camargo saw the bulk of the playing time at the hot corner last season, and the position produced a combined .244/.297/.358 line for a .655 OPS that ranked 29th in the majors.
Frazier would provide a terrific veteran presence in a young locker room, and he could turn out to be a steal if the three-year, $33 million contract that MLB Trade Rumors is predicting for him comes to fruition.
He still provides 30-homer power, strong on-base skills and Gold Glove-caliber defense, even if his batting average has bottomed out in recent seasons.
                             
Miami Marlins: Trade RF Giancarlo Stanton
If the Marlins' new ownership group is serious about trimming the team's payroll to $90 million, per Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald, trading Stanton will be a top priority this winter.
The 28-year-old is set to earn $25 million in 2018, and he's owed a whopping $270 million over the next 10 seasons.
Assuming the Marlins would prefer not to eat any of that money—trading him would be a cost-cutting measure above all else—they might have to settle for a less than overwhelming return.
Still, moving him would represent a massive shift in direction for a team that's been somewhat aimless since opening their new stadium in 2012.
                                            
New York Mets: Sign IF Eduardo Nunez
The Mets can't count on anything from David Wright at this point, so signing someone from the free-agent trio of Mike Moustakas, Todd Frazier and Eduardo Nunez to man the hot corner looks like a good move.
Nunez backed up a breakout 2016 season by hitting .313/.341/.460 with 33 doubles, 12 home runs and 24 stolen bases, and he did it while lining up all over the diamond defensively.
His versatility means the Mets wouldn't be pigeonholed into using him as the everyday third baseman if Wright does return, and he'd fit well at the top of a lineup that's lacking a true leadoff hitter.
                                                                     
Philadelphia Phillies: Sign SP Jake Arrieta
It's time for the Phillies to use some of their payroll flexibility to make a splash on the free-agent market, and adding a proven top-tier starter to anchor the rotation alongside Aaron Nola would be the best way to do it.
The 31-year-old has already been a part of one successful rebuild with the Cubs, and his experience through the highs and lows on the North Side would make him an equally valuable addition to the clubhouse.
     
Washington Nationals: Sign RP Mike Minor
The Nationals bullpen went from a liability to a legitimate strength after Washington added Sean Doolittle, Ryan Madson and Brandon Kintzler at the non-waiver deadline.
However, Kintzler is set to depart in free agency, and Oliver Perez, Matt Albers and Joe Blanton will be joining him. So adding a few relief arms will be a priority.
Enny Romero and Matt Grace give the team a pair of lefties to help support Doolittle—the presumptive closer—though neither is that shutdown guy you want taking the ball with Freddie Freeman digging into the box in a tight game.
Minor was that guy for the Royals in his first season as a reliever, posting a 2.55 ERA, 1.02 WHIP and 10.2 K/9 in 65 appearances.

Chicago Cubs: Re-sign RP Wade Davis
The Cubs have at least one spot to address in the starting rotation, and adding Alex Cobb looks like a real possibility.
However, the more impactful move will still be what they decide to do with the closer's role.
The bullpen was a complete disaster in the postseason, and potential closer candidate Carl Edwards Jr. was one of the biggest culprits.
It will cost something in the neighborhood of the four-year, $62 million deal that Mark Melancon signed with the San Francisco Giants last winter to bring back Davis, but unless the front office has something else up its sleeve on the trade market, it's a necessity.
          
Cincinnati Reds: Re-sign SS Zack Cozart
Unless the Reds decide to shop closer Raisel Iglesias—who would bring a huge return thanks to his team-friendly contract and stellar 2017 performance—don't expect any needle-moving trades.
Instead, the most impactful transaction could be a reunion with Cozart.
The 32-year-old enjoyed a breakout season offensively (.933 OPS, 24 HR) while continuing his strong glove work (2 DRS, 6.2 UZR/150) en route to a 4.9 WAR.
Despite those stellar numbers, it's hard to find him a better fit than the Reds.
The Royals and San Diego Padres have glaring needs at shortstop but likely won't want to spend the money, and no other team has a clear hole at the position.
                      
Milwaukee Brewers: Sign SP Lance Lynn
Tom Haudricourt of the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel wrote in October that the Brewers have the financial flexibility to be bigger players than usual on the free-agent and trade markets.
Adding a proven starter to a young rotation that benefited from the emergence of guys such as Chase Anderson, Jimmy Nelson and Zach Davies could help the club take that next step forward. MLB Trade Rumors even predicted they could be the landing spot for Arrieta.
Another NL Central staple might be a more fiscally responsible addition, though.
Lynn is a quality middle-of-the-rotation arm capable of eating up innings who would also bring some welcome postseason experience to the young roster. The 30-year-old is also 6-2 with a 2.37 ERA in nine career starts at Miller Park.
               
Pittsburgh Pirates: Sign SP Tyler Chatwood
Who will be this year's pet project for pitching coach Ray Searage?
Chatwood looks like a suitable candidate, as he has the power arm (95.2 mph fastball) and high ground-ball rate (58.1 percent) that the Pirates have a history of targeting.
The 27-year-old also has age on his side, and even after going 8-15 with a 4.69 ERA and 1.44 WHIP in 2017, he figures to have plenty of suitors hoping to unlock his potential.
If the Pirates are serious about contending again in 2018 and not headed for a rebuild, he looks like the perfect target.
                            
St. Louis Cardinals: Sign RP Addison Reed
It sounds like the Cardinals are ready to open their checkbooks to shore up the back of the bullpen, as general manager Michael Girsch told reporters:
"Certainly we will evaluate the brand-name closers in the market and see what that market looks like and see if there is a fit. Ideally, you don't pay retail for closers if you can avoid it, and we've been lucky for the last long period of not having to dip into that end of the market. But we don't have an heir apparent at the moment, so we will have to evaluate what our options are."
If they're unable to pry Davis away from the rival Cubs, Reed might be the preferred Plan B over fellow free agent Greg Holland—who struggled down the stretch and comes with some injury concerns.

Arizona Diamondbacks: Re-sign RF J.D. Martinez
According to Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com, early reports have agent Scott Boras seeking a deal in the $200 million range for Martinez.
That's probably wishful thinking given his injury history, but after he posted a 1.066 OPS with 45 home runs and 104 RBI, there's no doubt he's the top bat on the market and the six-year, $150 million deal that MLB Trade Rumors predicted is not out of the question.
The 30-year-old immediately transformed the D-backs offense after joining them in a July trade, and with the team's window of contention wide-open, bringing him back gives Arizona the best chance to make a run at a title.
                   
Colorado Rockies: Re-sign C Jonathan Lucroy
A down season offensively took a bite out of Lucroy's earning potential, but he's still the top catcher on the market this winter.
The 31-year-old put up an .865 OPS with 11 extra-base hits in 46 games after joining the Rockies at the non-waiver deadline, and his ability to handle a staff could be instrumental in the development of the team's young arms.
"[Lucroy] has credibility—two-time All-Star, good blocker of the ball, good receiver, knows the National League being in Milwaukee all those years," manager Bud Black told Thomas Harding of MLB.com.
Deciding how to address the bullpen will be important, but Lucroy's impact on the staff as a whole could be greater.
                   
Los Angeles Dodgers: Acquire RF Giancarlo Stanton
Until another team makes a strong push forward, the Dodgers have to be considered the favorites to land Stanton.
They have more than $40 million coming off the books, so his $25 million salary won't be an issue in 2018. And the win-now mentality should be stronger than ever after Los Angeles came one win away from a World Series title.
The team has a hole to fill at the corner outfield spot opposite Yasiel Puig, plenty of assets to swing a deal and the financial flexibility to take on the entirety of his remaining contract—something no other team may be willing to do.
A lineup of Chris Taylor, Corey Seager, Stanton, Cody Bellinger, Justin Turner, Puig, Logan Forsythe and Austin Barnes would be awfully scary.
                
San Diego Padres: Sign SP Chris Tillman
The Padres cobbled together a starting rotation last offseason by signing Clayton Richard, Jhoulys Chacin, Trevor Cahill and Jered Weaver to one-year deals that totaled just $8.25 million.
It's unlikely they'll take a markedly different approach this offseason, and Tillman represents one of the more intriguing bounce-back candidates on the market.
The 29-year-old went 56-30 with a 3.91 ERA and 1.28 WHIP while averaging 32 starts and 189.6 innings in the four seasons leading up to 2017 before his ERA spiked to 7.84 in an injury-plagued campaign.
A one-year turn at pitcher-friendly Petco Park could be the ticket to rebuilding his value.
                        
San Francisco Giants: Sign OF Carlos Gonzalez
If the Giants whiff on trading for Stanton and signing Martinez, where does that leave them in their pursuit of a power bat and corner outfielder?
Jay Bruce, Carlos Gomez, Curtis Granderson and Jose Bautista could emerge as targets, but rolling the dice on CarGo would provide them with the most potential bang for their buck.
The 32-year-old posted an 87 OPS+ with 34 doubles and 14 home runs en route to a minus-0.2 WAR in 2017.
His 2015 (116 OPS+, 40 HR, 97 RBI) and 2016 (111 OPS+, 25 HR, 100 RBI) seasons were terrific, though, and he could be looking for a one-year prove-it deal, which would be a low-risk, high-reward fallback plan for the Giants. 
                           
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.



Japanese baseball star Shohei Otani is reportedly set to take an important step toward an eventual Major League Baseball career.
On Thursday, Dylan Hernandez of the Los Angeles Times cited Japanese news reports that said Otani's team, the Nippon-Ham Fighters, announced it will post him this offseason. Otani is a pitcher and power hitter who is sure to draw the interest of a number of MLB teams this offseason now that he is set to be officially posted.
On Friday, Fox Sports' Ken Rosenthal noted the posting was done without an agreement as to the current rules between the Japanese league and MLB, meaning it could be rescinded if Nippon wants more from the posting than the eventual deal allows.
The pursuit of Otani promises to be one of the most intriguing offseason storylines in part because of the financial situation.
Mike Oz of Yahoo Sports explained the Japanese star is apparently "willing to leave millions of dollars on the table" by coming over at age 23 instead of waiting until he is 25. That is because those under 25 fall under MLB's international bonus pool restrictions, capping what teams can offer him.
"If Otani were to wait until he turned 25, his MLB contract would easily be nine figures," Oz wrote. "Instead, he wants to prove himself at 23, so teams have to treat him the same way they would a 16-year-old from the Dominican Republic. He'll get a signing bonus and the same standard contract any MLB draft pick or international free agent would."
According to Ronald Blum of the Associated Press (h/t Yahoo Sports), the Texas Rangers can offer the biggest signing bonus at $3.535 million. The New York Yankees ($3.25 million) and Minnesota Twins ($3.245 million) can offer the next highest, and the Pittsburgh Pirates, Miami Marlins and Seattle Mariners are the only other teams that can offer seven figures.
Whichever team lands him will immediately bolster its pitching staff and perhaps its lineup as well.
Dayn Perry of CBS Sports provided a brief scouting report, noting Otani slashed .286/.358/.500 in five seasons with Nippon and posted an ERA of 2.52 with a fastball that can reach 100 mph, along with a "devastating slider" and "nasty splitter."



Aaron Boone is a candidate for the New York Yankees' managerial vacancy, ESPN.com's Buster Olney reported Thursday.
According to Olney, the Yankees haven't yet formally scheduled an interview with Boone, who played for the team in the second half of the 2003 season.
Boone famously hit the pennant-clinching home run in the 2003 American League Championship Series for New York.
His season-ending knee injury in January 2004 then prompted the Yankees to acquire Alex Rodriguez from the Texas Rangers in February of that year.
The 44-year-old is a somewhat surprising inclusion in the Yankees' managerial search since he has yet to coach in a formal capacity for an MLB team. Upon retiring after the 2009 season, Boone joined ESPN as an analyst.
While he played 12 years in the majors, taking over as the Yankees' manager—arguably the most scrutinized job in baseball—would present an entirely different challenge.
Joe Girardi, in comparison, was the team's bench coach in 2005 and managed the Florida Marlins in 2006 before he replaced Joe Torre in New York in 2008.
Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said Monday he'd be willing to hire a candidate who doesn't have past coaching experience but added the candidate would need to go above and beyond during the hiring process, per NJ Advance Media's Randy Miller:
"If somebody hasn't done it, they're going to have to be exceptional in other aspects for you to be willing to take a chance like that. There will be people that I interview that don't have any managerial experience in their background. It's a very diverse list of people that I have interest in talking with and so we'll see where it takes us ultimately."
The New York Daily News' Mike Mazzeo reported David Cone and John Flaherty are also interested in becoming the Yankees' next manager and have spoken to Cashman about the opportunity.



Coming off a season in which all 30 Major League Baseball teams set a new record with 6,105 home runs, the best hitters in the sport were rewarded Thursday with the release of the 2017 Silver Slugger Awards. 
First given out in 1980, the Silver Slugger Awards are voted on by managers and coaches around MLB. They judge players by using multiple criteria, including each of the three main slash-line categories (batting average, on-base percentage, slugging percentage). 
Not surprisingly, Giancarlo Stanton of the Miami Marlins headlined the winners list in the National League, and Aaron Judge of the New York Yankees did so in the American League.
               
American League Silver Slugger Winners
Catcher: Gary Sanchez, New York Yankees
First Base: Eric Hosmer, Kansas City Royals
Second Base: Jose Altuve, Houston Astros
Third Base: Jose Ramirez, Cleveland Indians
Shortstop: Francisco Lindor, Cleveland Indians
Outfield: Aaron Judge, New York Yankees
Outfield: George Springer, Houston Astros
Outfield: Justin Upton, Detroit Tigers/Los Angeles Angels
Designated Hitter: Nelson Cruz, Seattle Mariners
               
National League Silver Slugger Winners
Catcher: Buster Posey, San Francisco Giants
First Base: Paul Goldschmidt, Arizona Diamondbacks
Second Base: Daniel Murphy, Washington Nationals
Third Base: Nolan Arenado, Colorado Rockies
Shortstop: Corey Seager, Los Angeles Dodgers
Outfield: Giancarlo Stanton, Miami Marlins
Outfield: Charlie Blackmon, Colorado Rockies
Outfield: Marcell Ozuna, Miami Marlins
Pitcher: Adam Wainwright, St. Louis Cardinals
             
This has been a good week for Stanton and Houston Astros second baseman Jose Altuve. They were named outstanding player in their respective leagues during the Players' Choice Awards on Wednesday and have a Silver Slugger Award to put next to it on their rapidly expanding mantels. 
Stanton finished one home run shy of becoming the sixth player in MLB history to hit 60 in a single season, but the Marlins All-Star still had one of the best power campaigns in recent memory. 
The NL MVP finalist hit 23 of his 59 home runs in a 36-game span from July 17 through Aug. 25. But that was just part of an incredible hitting and power streak Stanton was on, per Ryan M. Spaeder of Sporting News:
#Marlins Giancarlo Stanton:

Last 69 games .307/.413/.776 &amp; 35 HR
Last 46 games .353/.461/.935 &amp; 29 HR
Last 23 games .402/.485/1.046 &amp; 17 HR
In a normal year, Stanton's production would have stood far above everyone else in MLB. There was little that was normal about 2017, though. He was part of an outstanding outfield in Miami with Christian Yelich, who won a Silver Slugger last year, and Marcell Ozuna. 
Ozuna joined Stanton among the winners this year thanks to a breakout season. The Dominican Republic native unlocked his potential with 37 home runs and a .312/.376/.548 slash line. 
Per MLB.com's Joe Frisaro, the Marlins made franchise history with two Silver Slugger winners:
For time in @Marlins history, two #SilverSlugger winners in same season. Congrats to Giancarlo Stanton and Marcell Ozuna.
Arizona Diamondbacks first baseman Paul Goldschmidt, who is challenging Stanton for NL MVP, won his third Silver Slugger in the last five seasons in part by mastering the launch angle off his bat, per Statcast:
Up, up and away! 

Paul Goldschmidt’s home runs averaged a 32-degree launch angle this season for the @Dbacks, highest among players with 30+ HRs, as he soared to an NL Silver Slugger Award. https://t.co/B3VQttOnXR
Judge set a new MLB rookie record with 52 home runs during the regular season. He was more than just his power, though, as he posted a .422 on-base percentage and scored a league-leading 128 runs. 
Per Hot Stove Stats, Judge's first full season compares favorably to one of Alex Rodriguez's MVP campaigns:
2017 #Yankees Aaron Judge:
.284/.422/.627, 52 HR, 128 BB

2003 Alex Rodriguez*:
.298/.396/.600, 47 HR, 87 BB

*MVP
In terms of pure power, as brilliant as Stanton's season was, it's hard to argue any MLB player was more impressive in that department than Judge:
There were nine HRs hit with an exit velocity of 117+ mph in 2017.

@TheJudge44 was responsible for seven of them, including a #Statcast record 121.1 mph.

That’s how you win an AL Silver Slugger Award! https://t.co/zWY7JA8nkU
Judge could be the first Yankees player to win an AL MVP award since Rodriguez in 2007. He can be the first rookie to win the honor since Ichiro Suzuki pulled off the feat for the Seattle Mariners in 2001. 
Altuve is Judge's main competition for the award, with Cleveland Indians third baseman Jose Ramirez also a finalist. Altuve has now won four straight Silver Slugger Awards after setting career highs with a .346 batting average, .410 on-base percentage and .547 slugging percentage in 2017. 
The MLB players already gave Altuve one big prize this week:
And still Player of the Year!

@JoseAltuve27 (.346 AVG, 112 R, 24 HR, 81 RBIs, 32 SB) is named top MLB player by his peers for the 2nd straight season. #PlayersChoiceAwards17 https://t.co/YhJKjinTZ5
Teammate George Springer joined Altuve on the Silver Slugger winner's list. Springer set the table as the leadoff hitter for the potent Astros lineup that led MLB with 896 runs scored. He was responsible for 197 of those runs when you combine his RBI (85) and runs scored (112) totals. 
Other first-time Silver-Slugger winners besides Judge and Springer include Ramirez, Yankees catcher Gary Sanchez, Kansas City Royals first baseman Eric Hosmer, Cleveland Indians shortstop Francisco Lindor, Ozuna and St. Louis Cardinals pitcher Adam Wainwright. 
Sanchez was Judge's partner in that exciting Yankees lineup. The All-Star catcher hit 33 home runs in just 122 games after hitting 20 in 53 contests as a rookie in 2016. 
493 feet, over the bleachers!

On his way to an AL Silver Slugger Award, @Yankees catcher @ElGarySanchez launched the 2nd-longest HR of 2017, also tying for the 4th longest in #Statcast history. https://t.co/mZ71i6mYaO
Lindor was never regarded as a power hitter when he was coming through the minors. His career high in homers as a prospect was 11 in 2014, but he tripled that total in 2017 and showed unexpected pop across the board:
178 hits.
81 extra-base hits.
44 doubles.
33 homers.

One #SilverSlugger Award. Congrats, Frankie! https://t.co/FRPyOwIfUk
The other member of the left side of Cleveland's infield, Ramirez, followed his breakout 2016 season with an even better 2017 to take home the Silver Slugger Award at third base in the AL. He led the league with 56 doubles, hit 29 home runs and posted a .318/.374/.583 slash line in 585 at-bats. 
Even though the list of Silver Slugger winners is populated by big-name veterans such as Posey and Altuve, MLB is in excellent hands with its crop of young superstars. 
Judge, Ramirez, Sanchez, Lindor and Corey Seager are all 25 years of age or under. They will be a big part of MLB's award scene for a long time. 


Alex Trebek throwing shade at Hunter Pence and the San Francisco Giants 🔥

(via @Jeopardy) https://t.co/1SeKUy9tk3
The San Francisco Giants have won three World Series titles in the last eight years. Alex Trebek is still not impressed.
On Tuesday night's Tournament of Champions installment of Jeopardy!, Tim Aten recalled receiving support from Giants outfielder Hunter Pence on Twitter following last year's appearance on the game show.
@AllFairness way to kill it for the @wizards_magic community on @jeopardy "float like a butterfly, sting like a butterfly."
Trebek was not exactly star struck when Aten referenced Pence.
"Yeah," Trebek said when Aten confirmed Pence winning the World Series with the Giants. "OK, but not this year."
Finishing at 64-98, San Francisco tied the Detroit Tigers for MLB's worst record. Pence hit a mundane .260/.315/.385 with a career-worst 0.7 WAR, per FanGraphs.
He conceded defeat to the Jeopardy! host.
@Jeopardy I’ll take “Got Wrecked by Alex Trebek” for $1000, Alex. https://t.co/fJV5WjAoCP
Like the Giants, Aten ended the evening in last place. 
[Sports Illustrated]



The Miami Marlins confirmed Thursday that manager Don Mattingly will return to the team in 2018, the Miami Herald's Barry Jackson reported. 
Mattingly has managed the Marlins for two seasons, compiling a 156-167 record during that time. In 2017, Miami finished 20 games behind the National League East champion Washington Nationals, and the Marlins missed a wild-card berth by 10 games.
Mattingly still has two more years left on his current deal with the Marlins, but the team's change in ownership raised some doubt about whether he'd remain at the post.
Derek Jeter, who is among Miami's new owners, declined to offer a firm commitment as to whether Mattingly would return when asked about the manager in October.
"It has been a long season," Jeter told reporters. "I told him to get out of here and go enjoy himself and get back to his family. We'll sit down when the time is right and evaluate everyone."
Mattingly and Jeter played together during Jeter's rookie season with the New York Yankees in 1995.
While Mattingly's return resolves one question, plenty of intrigue surrounds the Marlins, especially regarding slugger Giancarlo Stanton.
Jackson reported in September the new owners may trim the team's payroll, which would make Stanton a prime trade candidate. Stanton will earn $77 million over the next three years before he can opt out of his contract. FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman reported the St. Louis Cardinals are emerging as strong contenders to land Stanton, with the Philadelphia Phillies and San Francisco Giants also in the race.



The St. Louis Cardinals have reportedly emerged as an early favorite to land reigning MLB home run champion Giancarlo Stanton in a trade from the Miami Marlins.
On Thursday, Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports noted the Cardinals are a "prime player" in the Stanton sweepstakes along with the San Francisco Giants and Philadelphia Phillies. He added the Marlins would "most like" to make a deal with the Cards due to their numerous top-tier pitching prospects.
The 28-year-old slugger is coming off a big year in Miami. He posted a .281/.376/.631 triple-slash line with 59 homers and 132 runs batted in. His 1.007 OPS ranked fourth in baseball behind only the Los Angeles Angels' Mike Trout, New York Yankees' Aaron Judge and Cincinnati Reds' Joey Votto.
Despite those huge numbers, Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald reported moving Stanton, who's heading into the fourth season of a 13-year, $325 million contract, is part of the new owners' plan to reduce payroll to $90 million for 2018.
The California native owns a complete no-trade clause, but he suggested to Heyman in September he'd be willing to move on if the Marlins are planning another long rebuilding project.
"I don't want to rebuild. ... I've lost for seven years," Stanton said.
St. Louis looks like an ideal fit from both teams' perspectives. The Cardinals need more power after finishing 18th in home runs during the 2017 season and also have an opening in right field alongside Dexter Fowler and Tommy Pham in the outfield.
Meanwhile, the Marlins could push for at least one of the Cards' highly touted young pitchers, a group headlined by Alex Reyes and Jack Flaherty, as the cornerstone of the return package.
The question is whether Stanton would accept a deal to St. Louis. Heyman pointed out sources suggest the outfielder "would prefer to go to one of the coasts," though he hasn't publicly discussed his intentions. 



The time for playing in Major League Baseball is over. It's now time for spending.
And, thus, a new challenge for Bleacher Report's MLB Metrics 101.
Hello and welcome back. This week's topic is contract projections for the top stars on the 2017-18 free-agent market. Here are the ground rules:
There's room for argument regarding how many players belong under the umbrella covered by that second point. But in this space, the list extends to only eight players.
Read on for more on how their free-agent earnings will be projected.

Calculating free-agent contracts is an inexact science, but there are better ways to do it than simply plucking numbers out of the air.
A good starting point is to calculate how much money players should actually be worth in coming seasons. Baseline components for this are WAR (wins above replacement), the cost per WAR and two assumptions:
The B/R MLB Metrics 101 has already settled on $8 million for the cost per WAR in 2017. A safe assumption for player regression is 0.5 WAR per year. A safe assumption for cost per WAR inflation is 5 percent per year.
The latter two figures are cues taken from a Sports Illustrated method that was pioneered by Jay Jaffe and passed on to Cliff Corcoran. Another cue taken is a player's projected WAR for the first season of his new deal, which is the 5/4/3 weighted average of his last three WARs.
Thus can a player's future worth be calculated. For the sake of consistency and clarity, all projections will be standardized to five seasons and rounded to the nearest multiple of five. Go here for full results.
But, be warned.
This isn't a one-size-fits-all model, so specific players will require specific tweaks. Also, their projected worth isn't the same as what suitors will deem them to be worth. Other factors to consider are qualifying offers, positional scarcity, skill scarcity and relevant comps.
Ultimately, the projections are a jumping-off point that will lead to best guesses. Without further ado, let's get to it.

Qualifying Offer: Yes
Wade Davis is set to be the top relief pitcher on the market just a year after said market rained $86 million on Aroldis Chapman, $80 million on Kenley Jansen and $62 million on Mark Melancon.
Since both entered free agency off their age-31 seasons, Melancon is the best comp for Davis age-wise. That puts him in the market for a four-year deal rather than the five-year deals that Chapman and Jansen got.
If Davis was still the same pitcher who posted a 0.97 ERA over 139.1 innings in 2014 and 2015, he'd be in line to blow the value of Melancon's four-year deal out of the water.
However, the right-hander's relatively modest 2015-2017 weighted WAR covers a performance slip to a 2.12 ERA in 102.0 innings since 2016. He also comes with elbow concerns. And, unlike Melancon, he comes tied to a qualifying offer and the consequences it entails.
As far as dollars go, however, that $55 million figure is reasonably reflective of the situation. It's likely that the only difference will be Davis getting that over four years rather than five.
Prediction: 4 Years, $55 Million

Qualifying Offer: Yes
The elephant in this room is Lance Lynn's absence in 2016 following Tommy John surgery. Neither that nor his ties to qualifying offer penalties will help him find big riches this winter. 
Fortunately for him, he should be able to convince suitors to take an optimistic viewpoint.
Lynn showed no ill effects in his return from Tommy John in 2017, posting a 3.43 ERA over 186.1 innings. Those numbers are uncannily similar to the 3.38 ERA and 189.1 innings he averaged between 2012 and 2015.
It's also of help to Lynn that good starting pitching was in shockingly short supply in 2017. He was one of only 23 starters to provide over 180 above-average innings, the lowest number of any non-strike year.
Lynn was worth 3.1 WAR in 2017. If teams assume he'll pick up from there in 2018, his five-year projection jumps to $95 million. 
Lynn's qualifying offer will likely put such a deal out of reach, but it's possible he'll split the difference between his high projection and low projection. If Ian Kennedy could get five years and $70 million in a 2015-16 market that had many more starting options, five years and $75 million isn't a stretch for Lynn.
Prediction: 5 Years, $75 Million

Qualifying Offer: Yes
Cutting right to the chase: No, a nearly $200 million deal doesn't await Lorenzo Cain.
He's certainly been a criminally overlooked talent in recent years. His last four seasons are punctuated by a .789 OPS and plentiful defensive and baserunning value. At least in terms of ability, he is to the 2017-18 market what Jason Heyward was to the 2015-16 market.
But for Cain, that's not an inspiring comparison. Although Heyward projected to be a $300 million player in the long run, he got only $184 million from the Chicago Cubs. And despite being only 26 when he signed, he's already diminished into a massive bust.
Other comps such as Dexter Fowler and Alex Gordon come with similar red flags. It's therefore likely that teams will err on the side of caution and assume a more aggressive decline awaits Cain.
For example, consider a model that assumes an immediate 1-WAR dropoff in 2018 followed by subsequent 1-WAR dropoffs in following seasons. That would bring Cain's five-year projection down to $90 million.
That's close to the average annual value of Fowler's five-year, $82.5 million deal and Gordon's four-year, $72 million deal. Since the latter is the better age comp for Cain, a sensible four-year proposal emerges.
Prediction: 4 Years, $75 Million

Qualifying Offer: Yes
Mike Moustakas is coming off a season highlighted by a career-high 38 home runs, but those came with a characteristically low .314 on-base percentage. That sums up how he's a talented yet flawed hitter.
Neither that nor his ties to qualifying-offer penalties will help him. Given that there were more home runs hit in 2017 than in any other season, it's also possible that most teams will shrug at the power he has to offer.
But because Moustakas hit 10 more home runs (24) on the road than he did at the notoriously humongous Kauffman Stadium (14) in 2017, a few teams might be willing to bet that he only scratched the surface of his power potential.
A back-of-the-envelope calculation posits that Moustakas might have gained a win from 1.8 WAR to 2.8 WAR if he'd played at a more power-friendly ballpark in 2017. If he were to pick up from there in 2018, his five-year projection would leap to $80 million.
This is an admittedly shaky assumption, but it does get at how Moustakas is basically the Pablo Sandoval of this winter's market. If Sandoval could get five years and $95 million in an offensively challenged environment, five years and $80 million for Moustakas in an offensively charged environment is doable.
Prediction: 5 Years, $80 Million

Qualifying Offer: Yes
According to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, Jake Arrieta's goal in March was to seek a $200 million contract. That might have been realistic once upon a time, but not now.
Arrieta won the National League Cy Young on the strength of a 1.77 ERA over 229 innings in 2015. But he regressed to a 3.10 ERA over 197.1 innings in 2016, and then to a 3.53 ERA over 168.1 innings in 2017. Punctuating his slide is a steep velocity decline.
Like Johnny Cueto two winters ago, Arrieta is thus a pitcher with an ace reputation but an uncertain future. Cueto's six-year, $130 million contract reflected that, as it compromised between his upside and downside.
How to find a similar compromise for Arrieta? Perhaps by assuming that, like Cueto has done, he'll manage one more ace-like year before falling back into a pattern of regression. Assume he'll lose 1 WAR per year after 2018 rather than half a WAR, for example, and his five-year projection slumps to $95 million.
Split the difference between that and his optimistic projection, and you get $120 million. Another year would take that over Cueto's deal. But a multitude of factors—Arrieta is two years older and tied to a qualifying offer, but also has fewer health red flags and is in a pitching-needy market—suggest it's best left as is.
Prediction: 5 Years, $120 Million

Qualifying Offer: No
J.D. Martinez is set to capitalize on a 2017 season in which he tallied a 1.066 OPS and 45 homers in only 119 games. That's a 62-homer pace over a full season.
This is merely an extreme case of the hitter he's been for a while now. He's averaged a .936 OPS and 32 home runs per year since 2014. By adjusted OPS+, he ranks as one of MLB's five best hitters in this span.
“He’s a superstar talent,” said Scott Boras, Martinez's agent, per Nick Piecoro of the Arizona Republic. “He’s done things that few players have done.”
It will only help Martinez that he's not tied to a qualifying offer. What could hold him back, however, is his one-dimensional nature and his lack of durability. He has little to offer outside the batter's box and has been limited by injuries to 239 games over the last two seasons.
There aren't many good comps for a player like this, but the durability questions are at least reminiscent of Yoenis Cespedes this past season. Since Martinez is a year younger and a better hitter, an upgraded version of Cespedes' four-year, $110 million deal is fair enough.
As luck would have it, that comes out awfully close to what Martinez projects to be worth.
Prediction: 5 Years, $145 Million

Qualifying Offer: Yes
Similar to Moustakas, his soon-to-be former teammate, Eric Hosmer is a player whose legend is greater than his reality.
He's coming off a career-best season highlighted by an .882 OPS, 25 homers and his fourth Gold Glove, but his track record is mixed. He's been a merely average hitter in two of the last four seasons and, despite his Gold Gloves, actually rates as a below-average defender.
Hosmer does have youth on his side, though. That's sure to force some teams to wonder if he's only just reaching his true talent level, as well as whether he might decline more slowly than his fellow free agents.
He was worth 4 WAR in 2017. If it's assumed he can do that again in 2018, his five-year projection jumps to $135 million. If it's assumed he can do that both in 2018 and in 2019, his final season before the age-30 plateau, it jumps to $155 million.
The whole gamut of possibilities averages out to $25 million per year. That sounds fair enough, and would look nice in a six-year deal that his age is likely to attract.
Prediction: 6 Years, $150 Million

Qualifying Offer: No
The elephant in this room is the same as the one in Lynn's: Yu Darvish sat out 2015 due to Tommy John surgery.
But the bright side is that, like Lynn, Darvish has also had little trouble on the road back. In 48 starts since 2016, he's put up a 3.70 ERA and whiffed 10.7 batters per nine innings over 287 total innings.
This performance isn't far removed from the Cy-Young-caliber numbers that Darvish averaged in his first three major league seasons. Throw in the best fastball velocity of his career in 2017, and it's almost as if his 2015 absence never happened.
Pitching-needy teams can thus take the optimistic outlook that Darvish can pick up in 2018 where he left off. That would be a 3.9-WAR season that would bump his five-year projection up to $135 million.
That would destroy Jordan Zimmermann's five-year, $110 million contract as the record sum for a Tommy John recipient. Then the question would be if Darvish's representatives could squeeze a sixth year out of somebody.
His age makes that something of a challenge. His pitching ability, lack of ties to a qualifying offer and presence in a pitching-starved market, however, make it doable.
Prediction: 6 Years, $160 Million
                
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs.



The Oakland Athletics reportedly have their eye on multiple Miami Marlins outfielders.
On Wednesday, Susan Slusser of the San Francisco Chronicle reported the Athletics are interested in a potential trade for either Marcell Ozuna or Christian Yelich. Slusser explained "Oakland will have money to spend after trading many of its higher-priced players in July" and with Billy Butler no longer under contract.
The team isn't looking to move any of its "core young major-leaguers, apart from designated hitter-corner infielder Ryon Healy" although it would possibly trade some minor leaguers.
Slusser noted trading Healy would open up the designated hitter spot for Khris Davis, which would in turn create the need for another outfielder the team could potentially address with Ozuna or Yelich.
Yelich is only 25 years old, while Ozuna is 26, and they would each figure to cost the Athletics or other suitors a significant package in return. However, there may be some leverage in trade talks with the Marlins, considering it is no secret they are looking to shed payroll.
Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald reported the team's new ownership wants to trim payroll to $90 million and would even be willing to move slugger Giancarlo Stanton to accomplish the task.
If the Marlins shed payroll by trading the Athletics either Yelich or Ozuna, the American League West team would add a young talented outfielder in its quest to make the playoffs for the first time since the 2014 season.
Yelich slashed .282/.369/.439 with 18 home runs, 81 RBI and 16 stolen bases in 2017 and won a 2014 Gold Glove and 2016 Silver Slugger. Ozuna, who has been an All-Star in each of the last two years, slashed .312/.376/.548 with a career-high 37 home runs and 124 RBI. He also won a Gold Glove in 2017 and tallied a career-best 11 total defensive runs saved above average in left field, per FanGraphs.



Baseball writers will announce the major award winners from 2017 starting next week, but MLB players handed out honors of their own at the Players Choice Awards on Wednesday night.
Houston Astros second baseman Jose Altuve was the night's biggest winner, as he captured Outstanding Player in the American League and Player of the Year across MLB. It's the second year in a row he has claimed both awards.
Altuve showed he could get on base when he claimed the MLB batting title in 2014 after hitting .341. The last two years, the 27-year-old has displayed a level of power few could've predicted. Altuve's 24 home runs in 2017 matched his 2016 total, and his slugging percentage climbed slightly from .531 to .547.
Throw in the Astros' first World Series title, and Altuve is having a pretty good fall.
Below are the full winners from Wednesday's event.
      
MLB
American League
National League
     
Giancarlo Stanton didn't enjoy the same kind of team success Altuve did since the Miami Marlins missed the playoffs. His individual contributions were rewarded all the same as he earned Outstanding Player in the National League.
Stanton did his best to get the Marlins into the postseason for the first time since winning the World Series in 2003. He nearly became the first player since Sammy Sosa and Barry Bonds in 2001 to reach 60 home runs, falling one short of the mark.
Whereas some of the awards were toss-ups, the Outstanding Rookie winners in both leagues were foregone conclusions.
Cody Bellinger struggled mightily in the postseason, but that shouldn't overshadow a regular season in which the Los Angeles Dodgers first baseman averaged .267 with 39 home runs and 97 RBI in 132 games. Bellinger's home run total was the most ever for a National League rookie.
Likewise, Aaron Judge was the runaway favorite for Outstanding Rookie in the American League. Judge's 8.2 WAR was highest among position players, according to FanGraphs.
The New York Yankees right fielder was an immediate hit in the Big Apple, so much so the team created a section in Yankee Stadium in his honor. Judge led the American League with 52 homers, and his .627 slugging percentage was second in the AL behind Los Angeles Angels star Mike Trout.
Max Scherzer is already a two-time Cy Young Award winner, and he's likely to add a third. The Washington Nationals ace was named the Outstanding Pitcher in the National League on Wednesday night after going 16-6 and posting a 2.90 FIP, per FanGraphs.
This time last year, Mike Moustakas was rehabbing the torn ACL that limited him to 27 games in 2016. The Kansas City Royals third baseman hardly missed a beat in 2017, finishing with career highs in home runs (38), RBI (85) and slugging percentage (.521).
As a result of his excellent performance at the plate, Moustakas won Comeback Player for the American League.
Ryan Zimmerman provided a comeback of a different kind. The Washington Nationals first baseman made his first All-Star Game since 2009 with a .303/.358/.573 slash line to go along with 36 homers and 108 RBI.
"Honestly, I think I forgot how much fun baseball was," Zimmerman said in his interview on MLB Network.
The Players Choice Awards may portend what's to come when the Baseball Writers' Association of America reveals the winners of the sport's top individual prizes. 
Boston Red Sox starting pitcher Rick Porcello captured both the American League Cy Young and Outstanding Pitcher in the AL in 2016. Detroit Tigers pitcher Michael Fulmer and Los Angeles Dodgers shortstop Corey Seager were the top rookies in their respective leagues in both the Players Choice and BBWAA voting.



Kansas City Royals manager Ned Yost reportedly suffered a broken pelvis and was hospitalized.
According to a Wednesday story from Ari Gilberg of the New York Daily News, multiple reports noted the team confirmed the injury. It happened after he fell from a tree while working on a stand, although he is expected to fully recover.
Royals general manager Dayton Moore said Yost will be ready for the 2018 campaign, per Rustin Dodd of the Kansas City Star. Dodd also noted club officials are "hopeful" Yost can make the trip to the winter meetings in December.
Yost managed the Royals in each of the last eight seasons. While they missed the playoffs in 2017 with an 80-82 record, he led them to two straight World Series appearances in 2014 and 2015.
Kansas City won the 2015 Fall Classic in five games over the New York Mets.



The Boston Red Sox announced Wednesday that 17-year-old prospect Daniel Flores died while undergoing cancer treatment. 
MLB.com's Jesse Sanchez shared statements from Red Sox general manager Dave Dombrowski and assistant GM Eddie Romero about Flores' death:
This is tragic and heartbreaking. Daniel Flores was a wonderful young man. https://t.co/KvLzpfBA8V
The Red Sox signed Flores to a $3.1 million minor league deal in July.
MLB.com ranked the teenager as the fifth-best player in Boston's minor league organization, describing him as "one of the best defensive catchers amateur scouts have seen in years." Baseball America's Ben Badler also wrote in June that Flores was the best international catching prospect to hit the United States since Gary Sanchez in 2009.
MassLive.com's Christopher Smith reported in August that Flores was training at the Red Sox's academy in the Dominican Republic with the goal of getting ready to play in the Dominican Summer League in 2018.


A photo posted by Bleacher Report (@bleacherreport)
One of the hottest names in Major League Baseball, New York Yankees right fielder Aaron Judge, will appear on the cover of the U.S. version of MLB The Show 2018.
It's a well-deserved honor for the 25-year-old slugger, who won the 2017 Home Run Derby and led the American League with 52 this year.
Judge has been a significant factor in the Yankees' expedited rebuild that vaulted the team back into the postseason after missing the cut in the previous campaign.
The PlayStation 4 video game will be released on March 27, 2018.



Alex Bregman’s heroics are going to be all over the Astros World Series DVD.
Capping off a memorable rookie season with two homers, several standout fielding plays and a Game 5 walk-off hit in the Fall Classic has all but cemented his place in Houston Astros digital collectibles history. The 23-year-old is now recognized far and wide for his starring role in the Astros' first-ever World Series victory, as well as for his subsequent appearance on SNL's Weekend Update with Leslie Jones.
On a recent visit to the Bleacher Report offices in New York, Bregman sat down to talk about how life has changed since winning the title, his burgeoning sneaker fandom, being neighbors with Odell Beckham Jr. in college, his experience with new Red Sox manager Alex Cora and setting his sights on winning back-to-back titles with the Astros.
 

Bleacher Report: You, George Springer and Jose Altuve had the opportunity to make an appearance on Saturday Night Live. What was that experience like for you guys?
Alex Bregman: It definitely was really cool. To see all of the behind-the-scenes things that go into making SNL go was really cool. We had a great cast that was there with Miley [Cyrus] and Larry David. Met the producer of SNL, Lorne Michaels. It was a really cool day. A super special day. I watched SNL all the time when I was younger. Even now. Then being on it? It was crazy.
Latest B/R Videos Worth a Watch
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
     
B/R: What was it like to be up on that stage? Any stories from the night?
AB: We went up there with the first run-through of our lines, and we were like: "Oh, this is going to be easy. We each got one line." We completely messed it up and went out of turn the whole time. Altuve said his line before me, I said mine before Springer and it was a complete mess. We were like, "We've got to lock this in." All three of us ended up making up our own lines on the real show. We got a little nervous and we just went with it.
 
Well, that escalated quickly. #SNL   #Astros https://t.co/R9x9Q32qBy
B/R: Were you more nervous than you were for the World Series?
AB: I was way more [nervous] during SNL than the World Series. Way more nervous. [Laughs]. It was super cool. We didn't know until eight hours before we caught the flight when they said, "Do you want to come do SNL?" and I was like, "When and where?"
 
B/R: Besides SNL, what has been the coolest part of this experience?
AB: This morning was pretty cool—going on Good Morning America with Robin Roberts. She's a legend. I think I was telling both of my friends that we sat courtside at the Knicks game. Little kids from New York City are like, "Bro, that's Alex Bregman," and I was like: "Whoa, how do they know that? How do they know who I am at all?" My friend was like: "Bro, you hit a walk-off in Game 5 of the World Series. That was one of the best games ever." I didn't realize that. It was crazy.
 

B/R: Who’s been the coolest person to reach out to you?
AB: It's a good friend of mine, but Holly Holm. She came out to Game 6 and we had dinner. Her husband was my high school baseball coach. She was like: "You're going to win it. Don't worry."
         
B/R: Alex Cora mentioned on Monday at his introductory press conference as manager for the Red Sox that you were like a little brother to him. What was your experience like with him as a bench coach?
AB: He impacted the team immediately when he came over. Just a special knowledge for the game that you don't get from most people. His knowledge of baseball is basically why he has such a good career. It's because he knows the ins and outs of the game. He picks up stuff that other people don't pick up. If I'm trying to steal a base, I need to find a cue because I'm not the fastest guy. Alex Cora will be like: "Watch his front foot. His front foot when he picks is closed off. When he goes to the plate, it's open. You know right there, on one one-thousand, two, he's going to the plate."
He picks up stuff that other people don't pick up. He picks up other pitchers tipping, that way we know the advantage of what's coming. He knows different situations. He's always thinking and always working. The thing that is going to make him the most successful is how hard he works. He shows up early and watches more video than anybody. He loves the game so much and has dedicated his life to it. He's going to be a great manager.
 

B/R: Was there any particular instance where Cora’s help stuck out to you?
AB: I'd say the first thing, well, I kinda had the yips in spring training. I couldn't throw. He got me to be able to throw again. We went down and looked at video. This is two days after meeting him. This is his first time being a bench coach, in the first two days, we sat down with the video and threw every day. He actually put a few of us in a group text and put, "94 wins" at the beginning of the year. He sent us a text every day after every single win. "93 wins. 92. 91." We ended up winning 112 this year.
 
B/R: And what happened when you guys got past 94 wins?
AB: He just said: "Hey, let's go. Let's keep winning. Keep winning. Keep winning. Keep winning." He was right. He was special. He was a big difference-maker in us winning the World Series.
 

B/R: Did you feel his impact at any point during the World Series?
AB: [Chris] Taylor hit me one, I caught it and went home. In the back of my head the entire time, I was remembering when Cora told me, "Hey, in the World Series and it's a closer game, let's get the out at home." He had a big impact on me.
 
B/R: And I assume you guys knew he was gone after the season? Especially after all of those jobs opened up.
AB: As soon as the Mets job came open, the Red Sox job, as soon as all of these jobs, we knew he was gone. We said: "Dude, congratulations. That's unbelievable. It's going to be fun beating you in the ALCS."
 
B/R: I saw you posted a photo of the Nike Off-White Air Max 90 on your Instagram. Are you a sneakers guy?
AB: Kind of. I'm getting into it a little bit.
 
A photo posted by Alex Bregman (@abreg_1)
B/R: That’s one of the rarest sneaker drops of the year. How’d you get a hold of them?
AB: Jeremy Guthrie, World Series champ, he's got a vault of like a million dollars' worth of shoes. Guthrie came when we went back home after Game 2: "I got some sneakers for you. I want a younger guy in the game to rock these." I was like, "Eh, I'm not really into sneakers," but then I opened the box and I was like, "I saw Odell have these on Instagram." Odell was my next door neighbor in college. I was like: "I'm gonna rock these. I'm gonna rock these."
 
B/R: I mean, Odell has turned into somewhat of a fashion icon now.
AB: Yeah he is. He's a legend. That one catch made him a legend. So I got those ones, and I was like, "I'm never wearing these ever." Then Guthrie was like: "One of the high-up guys at Nike wants you to wear them for [batting practice] tomorrow. Virgil Abloh would be pumped if you wore them during the World Series." I wore them for BP, got 'em a little bit dirty, and I was pissed. Then they told me they were gonna send me the Jay-Z Rocafella sneakers before they were released. So I got those at the end of the World Series.
 
Alex Bregman warming up for Game 3 in the Off White Air Max 90. https://t.co/jVtFhvgcyd
B/R: You made some hype in the sneaker community for wearing them during BP.
AB: Oh really? I didn't know that. [Laughs.]
 
B/R: So Odell was your neighbor in college. What was that like?
AB: The thing with Odell is that he's a great dude. Jarvis [Landry] too. I just laughed watching them dance. [Instagram comedian] Dancing Dan is always with them. Every time we went out when we were in college, we would watch them dance and go after it. It was pretty funny. Jarvis and Odell would play catch with my little brother. Now, I'm like, "Wow, you played catch with two of the best receivers in the NFL."
 
B/R: Was there any big plan for you guys when Carlos Correa proposed to his fiancee?
AB: He was like, "Hey, I think I'm gonna propose after Game 6 if we win." That was the night we got into L.A. And then we lost. He was like, "I'm proposing tomorrow when we win." So we win. He proposes, and then my mom's calling me every day saying that I'm in the background of Correa's proposal. She's going crazy acting like it was me proposing. My dad's like: "What's going on here? We just won the World Series. What are we doing?" It was hilarious.
 
1 night, 2 rings. Carlos Correa proposes!

Congrats to the Correa's! #WorldSeries  https://t.co/SgRGw0NVGZ
B/R: How did he tell you guys?
AB: He just told us: "We better win tonight. I'm trying to get two rings." Everyone was pumped. He's a great teammate, a great guy, and Daniella [Rodriguez, Correa’s fiancee] is great too. We just hope we're invited to the wedding.
         
B/R: Beyond the games and actually winning the World Series, what has been your favorite part of the major league experience?
AB: After every big win, just being able to go home and still have that high from winning the game and be able to celebrate with friends and family. That was special. It's something you always want to do, to be able to celebrate the victories with your friends and family. Being able to do that was awesome. I think also just celebrating after we won the World Series, just seeing the joy on everyone's face, everyone rocking their Astros gear at the after-party. We are world champs. We are world champs until someone can take us down.
 
B/R: Now you just gotta go back-to-back.
AB: Like Drake said, "Back to Back." We're gonna Jordan '96-'97.



Rob Thomson will interview for the New York Yankees' vacant managerial position Wednesday, according to Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic. 
The Yankees and general manager Brian Cashman parted ways with former manager Joe Girardi last month after 10 years at the helm.
Thomson served as Girardi's bench coach throughout his entire tenure as Yankees manager, and he was also a first base and third base coach at various points.
He joined the Yankees organization in 1990 as a first base coach in the minor leagues and has had various roles since then.
The 54-year-old native of Canada was a 32nd-round draft pick of the Detroit Tigers in 1985 and played until transitioning into a coaching role in 1988.
During Girardi's time as Yankees manager, New York went 910-710, which was the best record in Major League Baseball during that span.
The Yanks were eliminated in the American League Championship Series last season, falling to the Houston Astros in seven games.



John Murray Karkow, the chief designer and test pilot for the ICON A5 plane Roy Halladay fatally crashed Tuesday, died while flying the aircraft in California in May.
On Wednesday, Andrew Dalton of the Associated Press reported the National Transportation Safety Board ruled the 55-year-old Karkow's death was the result of "pilot error." The NTSB is now set to investigate the details leading to the longtime MLB pitcher's crash in the Gulf of Mexico.
An ICON A5 pilot and passenger were also injured during a hard landing in April in Florida, according to the AP. The pilot later told investigators the aircraft "descended faster than he expected."
No further information about Halladay's crash has been released.
Meanwhile, Flying magazine editor-in-chief Stephen Pope told Dalton there are ongoing concerns about how the A5 is being utilized over water.
"They still think that that's the way the airplane should be flown, and there are people in aviation who completely disagree with that," he said. "They think you should not have a low-time pilot flying low over water. That's a recipe for disaster."
Halladay, 40, was one of the best starting pitchers in baseball for an extended period of time. The Colorado native finished his career in 2013 with a 203-105 record and a 3.38 ERA across 416 MLB appearances, including 390 starts.
He won two Cy Young Awards, one in each league, and earned eight All-Star Game selections during a career that spanned 16 years with the Toronto Blue Jays and Philadelphia Phillies.



The Houston Astros won their first World Series title a week ago, and while that triumph still reverberates throughout Major League Baseball, the sport's calendar marches on.
The Most Valuable Player Awards will be handed out for both the American and National Leagues on November 16 at 6 p.m. ET. The leagues have three nominees each.
Jose Altuve of the Astros, rookie Aaron Judge of the New York Yankees and Jose Ramirez of the Cleveland Indians are up for the award in the American League. Giancarlo Stanton of the Miami Marlins, Paul Goldschmidt of the Arizona Diamondbacks and Joey Votto of the Cincinnati Reds are the NL candidates.
Nolan Arenado had a brilliant year for the Colorado Rockies but didn't receive a nomination. The third baseman belted 37 home runs, drove in 130 and had a .309 batting average.
Altuve is a huge favorite in the American League. He led all of baseball with a .346 average and hammered 24 home runs and 81 RBI. He also stole 32 bases. The second baseman is listed at 1-9, according to Oddschecker, while the home run-hitting Judge is the next choice at 9-2. Ramirez, who had a brilliant year for the Cleveland Indians, is a distant option at 33-1.
There's a chance the NL MVP winner will be the first winner for his franchise

Finalists:
Giancarlo Stanton, Joey Votto, Paul Goldschmidt https://t.co/QqBzkhUKlw
Stanton, who hammered 59 home runs, including 33 in the second half of the year, is the NL favorite at 11-10, per Oddschecker. Goldschmidt and Votto are close behind at 2-1.
In addition to the numbers mentioned above, Altuve had a .410 on-base percentage, a .547 slugging percentage and a .957 OPS.
Altuve refuses to make a claim on the award, and he told the Associated Press (via USA Today) he would support Judge if he had a vote for the award. 
However, Houston manager A.J. Hinch disagreed. "Yet another reason why Jose Altuve is a perfect player," Hinch told the AP during a mid-October interview. "He's humble in his own accomplishments and very complimentary of others. ... I will always back Jose Altuve (but) I think in this regard I've got to tell him he's wrong; Jose Altuve's the MVP."
Judge hit 52 home runs, drove in 114 and hit .284. However, he lacked Altuve's consistency as he went through a long slump in the second half of the season. He also struck out 208 times.
Ramirez hit .318 with 29 home runs and 83 RBI. He also stole 17 bases.
Stanton hit .281 and drove in 132 runs. He had a .376 on-base percentage, .631 slugging percentage and a 1.007 OPS.
Paul Goldschmidt receives his 3rd career Gold Glove.

He's smiling now, but whats he going to do when all of his trophy cases get filled up? https://t.co/heZTqX8iTW
Goldschmidt has been the key to the Arizona offense for years, and he hit .297 with 36 home runs and 120 RBI, while Votto had another brilliant offensive season with a .320 batting average, 36 home runs and 100 RBI.
Arizona manager Torey Lovullo has thrown his support behind Goldschmidt. "Nothing against Giancarlo, but I'm biased to one guy," Lovullo said in late September, per Fox Sports. "I think Giancarlo is a fantastic player, and he is a very worthy MVP candidate. But I am a firm believe[r] in Paul Goldschmidt."
        
Predictions
Altuve is a heavy favorite, and he should get his first AL MVP award. He was far more consistent than either of his rivals, despite Judge's late charge.
Goldschmidt has finished second twice in NL MVP voting, and he deserves the honor. The Diamondbacks made the postseason, and the 30-year-old first baseman played a huge role.
While it's hard to find fault with the way Stanton played this year, his team finished 77-85.
Goldschmidt was playing under the pressure of trying to earn a playoff spot, and he produced brilliantly. He deserves to win his first MVP Award.



In winning 101 regular-season games and the franchise's first-ever World Series championship, the Houston Astros ascended to the top of Major League Baseball in 2017.
Now they should aim for the moon by signing Jake Arrieta.
This isn't something they need to do. They already have co-aces Justin Verlander and Dallas Keuchel set to lead their starting rotation in 2018. Behind them are Charlie Morton, Lance McCullers Jr. and Brad Peacock. Should they choose to shift Peacock to a bullpen that could use a shutdown arm, Collin McHugh or Mike Fiers could slide in.
But then again, why stop at "good enough" when "even better" is within reach?
If the Astros can land Arrieta, their rotation would be headed by a trio of former Cy Young winners. Arrieta and Keuchel won in the National League and American League, respectively, in 2015. Verlander won his way back in 2011, but he should have won a second Cy Young in 2016.

The catch with Arrieta is how he's fallen from his Cy Young form.
In 2015, the right-hander was to hitters what John Wick is to henchmen, posting a 1.77 ERA over 229 innings. He then regressed to a 3.10 ERA over 197.1 innings in 2016, and then to a 3.53 ERA over 168.1 innings in 2017. Since he'll soon be 32 years old, these regressions can't be dismissed as random noise.
One bright side, however, is that even the 2017 Arrieta would have been a boon to Houston's rotation.
Latest B/R Videos Worth a Watch
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
Although the late addition of Verlander helped stabilize things in time for the postseason, Astros manager A.J. Hinch spent much of 2017 improvising with his rotation. He used 11 different starters, among whom Fiers had the biggest workload with only 153.1 innings.
Despite how things look on paper, it shouldn't be assumed that Hinch is out of the woods. Keuchel, McCullers, Morton and McHugh (if needed) all come with durability questions. 
Another bright side is that both Arrieta's recent track record and the qualifying offer he received from the Chicago Cubs should drive down his price.
Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reported in March that Arrieta and super-agent Scott Boras were looking for something "along the lines" of Max Scherzer's seven-year, $210 million contract with the Washington Nationals. Instead, he'll be lucky if he gets a four- or five-year deal worth half that.
Per Cot's Baseball Contracts, the Astros already have nearly $143.6 million projected on their books for 2018. That alone would shatter their $124.3 million Opening Day payroll from 2017 as their largest ever.
However, this isn't a wall between them and Arrieta. He figures to be much cheaper than fellow free-agent ace Yu Darvish, so he should therefore fit nicely into the club's plans to expand its payroll.
"We're probably going to have roughly a league-average payroll this year for the first time in a while, and I think that's going to continue to increase," Houston general manager Jeff Luhnow said in Februrary, per Jake Kaplan of the Houston Chronicle. "And that helps. You need fuel to fuel the fire, and we've got plenty of resources right now."
The Astros can also afford the consequences tied to Arrieta's inevitable rejection of his qualifying offer. They didn't exceed the luxury tax in 2017, and they also receive revenue sharing, according to Evan Drellich of the Boston Herald. So, signing Arrieta would only cost them their third-highest pick in the 2018 draft.
There will, of course, be plenty of competition for Arrieta's services. But beyond the money and the golden opportunity to give some company to the 2016 World Series ring that he won with the Cubs, a few things could attract him to Houston.
One: The chance to return home and play for a team that employs one of his idols. The Plano, Texas, native has professed to being a fan of Nolan Ryan, who played nine seasons in Houston and now works for the Astros.
Two: The possibility that the Astros might do for his slider what they did for Verlander's slider.
As Tom Verducci of Sports Illustrated reported, the Astros welcomed Verlander by putting him in front of a high-speed camera that revealed a sub-optimal grip on his slider. One thing led to another, and the pitch gained devastating downward tilt to go with the high-80s velocity it already had.
Like so:
Including the postseason, opposing hitters managed just a .154 batting average against the 246 sliders that Verlander threw as an Astro.
Arrieta's slider is a different beast. Although he told Eno Sarris of FanGraphs in 2015 that he always uses the same grip, he can manipulate the spin to make it act like either a traditional slider with diving action or as a cutter with sharp glove-side run.
"I spin the ball the same almost every time," he said. "It's just grip pressure, effort on the pitch, all of that."
What's true either way, though, is that the slider doesn't loom as large in Arrieta's repertoire as it used to.
Courtesy of Baseball Savant, here's a look at how the usage and effectiveness (as measured by whiffs and "poor" contact) of Arrieta's slider has progressed over the last three seasons:
It peaked in usage in the first half of 2015 before finding a perfect equilibrium between usage and effectiveness in the second half of the year, when he went on an all-time great tear.
Ever since then, however, it's been a downhill ride for its usage and a mostly downhill ride for its effectiveness. Arrieta's overall effectiveness has paid the price.
Granted, this could be a case of the veteran trying to save his arm from the health risks associated with heavy slider usage. But since it's become slower and has, at times, also looked a lot flatter than it did at its peak, there are things Houston's toys might be able to help.
Even if all the Astros get in the end is something like the 2016 or 2017 version of Arrieta, they would still occupy the No. 3 slot in their rotation with an outstanding starter. At a time when good starters are increasingly difficult to come by, that alone would constitute a huge advantage.
And if the Astros managed to turn Arrieta back into an ace, their 2017 title likely wouldn't be their last.
                
Data courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Baseball Savant. 




In the coming months, a gaggle of MLB free agents will decide what laundry to wear next season. Some will pick from multiple suitors; others will settle for what they can get. 
While we wait for the hot stove to crackle, here's a handy guide ranking all 30 teams on their appeal as free-agent destinations. In compiling these rankings, we considered four factors and graded each on a scale of 1-10:
In the case of a tie, we used the "win later" score to determine the ranking.

Atmosphere
Yes, there is a coalition of loyal fans who proudly fly the green and gold. For the second consecutive year, however, the Oakland A's drew the second-fewest fans in baseball to their eyesore of a football/baseball combo park, per ESPN.com. Even when they win, interest is muted. When they're in the midst of a rebuild, as they are now, they scarcely rate as the Bay Area's other baseball team.
Score: 1
   
Payroll
Executive Billy Beane began the process of selling off pieces at the 2017 trade deadline, so it's highly unlikely the A's—who ranked next-to-last in payroll, per Spotrac—are going to add any needle-moving contracts. 
Score: 1
   
Can they win now?
Beane will jettison his tradable assets this winter and, if he has any left, next summer, with an eye on further restocking the farm. Another last-place finish is a near-foregone conclusion.
Score: 2
   
Can they win later?
Finally, some good news. After shipping out pieces such as right-hander Sonny Gray, the A's now have a farm system that Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter ranked No. 8 in the game. Oakland has shown the ability to contend with a tight budget and homegrown talent before, so there's at least a glimmer of hope on the horizon.
Score: 6
   
Total score: 10

Atmosphere
Despite Giancarlo Stanton's so-close chase for 60 homers and their big, glitzy ballpark, the Miami Marlins drew the third-fewest fans in baseball. Miami gets excited when the Fish compete for a title. When they float below .500? Not so much.
Score: 2
     
Payroll
The Marlins' new owners, led by Derek Jeter, are reportedly planning to slash payroll to as low as $55 million, per Barry Jackson of the Miami Herald, especially if they can move Stanton's massive contract. That doesn't bode well for any potential free agents with their hearts set on South Beach. Then again, these are the Marlins, so you never know.
Score: 2
    
Can they win now?
There's talent on the roster, including one of the game's best outfields in Stanton, Marcell Ozuna and Christian Yelich. But with the emphasis on shedding money and possibly shipping out their best player, the Marlins may be hard-pressed to match last season's 77-85 finish.
Score: 4
    
Can they win later?
The answer to this depends on your faith in the new ownership group to rebuild a weak farm system, make savvy trades from the big-league roster and change the culture of dysfunction that ruled under former owner Jeffrey Loria. Despite Jeter's winning pedigree and the hope that comes with a change of leadership, it's a giant question mark.
Score: 3
     
Total score: 11

Atmosphere
To put it bluntly, Tropicana Field is the ugliest park in the game, and it's not especially close. It's not a coincidence the Rays tied for the fifth-best record in the Junior Circuit but drew the fewest fans in either league.
Score: 1
    
Payroll
The Rays had MLB's fourth-lowest payroll in 2017 and aren't in the habit of handing out big contracts. They'll spend where they need to plug holes but generally hold back until later in the winter, when the second- and third-tier free agents can be had at bargain prices.
Score: 3
     
Can they win now?
Tampa Bay finished 80-82 last season and could again hang around the fringe of the wild-card chase. More likely, with the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees ascendant atop the division, they'll replenish the farm system by trading chips such as ace Chris Archer.
Score: 4
    
Can they win later?
The Rays have been a small-market success story over the past decade and, as mentioned, could further boost a farm system Reuter already ranked No. 6 in baseball. Keeping up with the Yanks and Red Sox will be tough, but there is cause for cautious optimism.
Score: 6
    
Total score: 14

Atmosphere
The Los Angeles Dodgers have always been Southern California's team, and that's doubly true after the Dodgers charged to Game 7 of the World Series. Still, the Los Angeles Angels managed baseball's seventh-highest attendance and have carved out a niche for themselves in Anaheim. 
Score: 5
    
Payroll
With Albert Pujols' albatross contract weighing down the books and the ink drying on the five-year, $106 million extension they handed Justin Upton, it's hard to believe the Halos will be big spenders for the rest of the winter. Then again, the Upton deal does signal they're unequivocally looking to win now.
Score: 3
    
Can they win now?
The Angels made a valiant playoff push in 2017. They still employ the game's best player in Mike Trout. There are questions, including in the starting rotation, but in an era when 85 wins can get you to October, why not?
Score: 5
    
Can they win later?
Here's where the picture gets less rosy. That Pujols contract will keep impacting the budget through 2021, when the Angels will pay the aging slugger $30 million in his age-41 season. Add the game's worst farm system and you've got red flags fluttering in the future.
Score: 2
    
Total score: 15

Atmosphere
Detroit is a great working-class baseball city, and the Tigers have recently enjoyed extended success. Those days are over for now, however, and the overdue has kicked into gear. There will be pain—and diminished attendance—ahead.
Score: 4
    
Payroll
Detroit started shedding salary by shipping out veterans at the 2017 deadline, including right-hander Justin Verlander. Next up: making tough decisions on remaining expensive pieces, including franchise icon Miguel Cabrera. The bottom line: The Tigers and executive Al Avila aren't cutting any huge checks. 
Score: 3
    
Can they win now?
The Tigers hoped for one more season of contention in 2017 and didn't get it. Now, after winning 64 games—their fewest since 2003—they may be in for an extended stretch of losing.
Score: 3
    
Can they win later?
The Tigers' once-moribund farm system took a big leap forward in 2017, and if Avila keeps sloughing off dollars and adding prospects, the future will only get brighter. 
Score: 5
    
Total score: 15

Atmosphere
The Kansas City Royals stirred up their dormant fanbase by winning a pennant in 2014 and the World Series in 2015. Missing the postseason for two straight seasons has dampened enthusiasm, however, and the Royals ranked No. 17 in attendance in 2017. That said, with the taste of winning fresh, K.C. fans will be ready to hop back on the wagon.
Score: 5
     
Payroll
A number of key players are hitting free agency—including center fielder Lorenzo Cain, third baseman Mike Moustakas and first baseman Eric Hosmer—which means the Royals and general manager Dayton Moore technically have money to spend. Kansas City isn't a big market, but the club's payroll ranked No. 13 in the game, meaning it could be in on some marquee names. 
Score: 6
    
Can they win now?
Again, there's a recent winning culture in skipper Ned Yost's dugout, and the Royals won 80 games last season. That said, with so much talent potentially leaving, Kanas City's window might be slamming shut.
Score: 3
    
Can they win later?
The Royals punted on a chance to deal pieces such as Cain and Hosmer at the 2017 and restock the game's No. 29 farm system. They may regret it down the road.
Score: 2
    
Total score: 16

Atmosphere
The Cincinnati Reds are one of baseball's oldest franchises. They play in a nice facility. Rebuilds hurt, however, and the Reds drew the second-fewest fans in the NL, ahead of only Miami. If and when they return to winning, however, you can bet the Cincinnati faithful will return.
Score: 5
     
Payroll
The Reds' payroll ranked 24th in baseball last year. Franchise player Joey Votto is set to make $25 million annually through 2023, but Cincinnati won't be shelling big money to anyone new in 2018.
Score: 3
    
Can they win now?
The Reds' goal for next season will be to continue the rebuild and try to avoid last place. Catching the Chicago Cubs for NL Central supremacy or even sniffing the wild card isn't remotely realistic.
Score: 2
   
Can they win later?
Cincinnati has the game's No. 10-ranked farm system, highlighted by 18-year-old superstar-in-the-making Hunter Greene. Patience is order of the day with both Greene and the Reds.
Score: 6
    
Total score: 16

Atmosphere
The Padres don't have a deep, rich history nor are they a trendy current favorite. Still, they drew more fans in 2017 than three playoff teams (the Arizona Diamondbacks, Minnesota Twins and Cleveland Indians). And it's tough to beat the weather in San Diego.
Score: 5
    
Payroll
The Padres had MLB's third-lowest payroll in 2017. Don't expect any offseason splashes akin to general manager A.J. Preller's ill-fated 2014-15 trade/spending spree.
Score: 3
    
Can they win now?
San Diego avoided the NL West cellar last season thanks to the San Francisco Giants' collapse, but their chances of competing with the Dodgers, Arizona Diamondbacks and Colorado Rockies in 2018 are essentially nil.
Score: 2
    
Can they win later?
The Friars have graduated young talent to the big leagues and have the No. 4 farm system, highlighted by some exciting pitching prospects, including left-hander MacKenzie Gore. In another couple of years, San Diego could again be a factor, provided Preller resist the urge to sell off his chips once again.
Score: 7
    
Total score: 17

Atmosphere
The Seattle Mariners finished a disappointing 78-84 this season and missed the playoffs for the 16th consecutive year. No surprise, then, that they finished 19th in attendance. Tough to blame Pacific Northwest fans for tossing up their hands. 
Score: 5
    
Payroll
The Mariners ranked 12th in payroll in 2017 but lack the financial flexibility going forward to make a big move. Instead, look for general manager Jerry Dipoto to tinker with the roster and make trades, as is his tendency.
Score: 4
     
Can they win now?
The M's have enough talent to compete for a wild-card berth, especially if they have a healthier starting rotation. A legitimate title run is a stretch, but just playing past Game 162 would be a coup.
Score: 5
     
Can they win later?
Again, the M's don't have a ton of near-term payroll space and their farm system checks in at No. 22 without any top prospects knocking on the MLB door. 
Score: 3
    
Total score: 17

Atmosphere
Philadelphia is a tough town. The fans are passionate, no question, but also notorious for letting players and the team hear their displeasure when things don't go well. The Phils lost 96 games and may be a couple of years away from sniffing contention. Any player who signs on now will need a thick skin.
Score: 4
    
Payroll
As Ryan Lawrence of Philly Voice reported, the Phils are sticking to their "carefully calculated long-term plan" and "will most likely not be bringing Jake Arrieta or Yu Darvish through that door this winter." They've got money to spend in theory, but a quick return to the bloated payrolls of the recent past isn't happening. 
Score: 3
     
Can they win now?
Philadelphia could certainly improve on last season's win total (it'd be tough to get much worse) if they sort out the rotation and youngsters such as infielder J.P. Crawford come into their own. A playoff push is probably not in the cards—sorry, boo-birds.
Score: 3
     
Can they win later?
As for that carefully calibrated plan, it's so far helped the Phillies stockpile the game's No. 7 farm system. Add tons of payroll flexibility down the road, and Philadelphia could swell with cheers again in the not-too-distant future. 
Score: 7
     
Total score: 17

Atmosphere
The White Sox could be one of the most electric young teams in either league in the coming years, but for now, they're a full-scale rebuilding squad playing in the North Side shadow of the Cubs. No shock they ranked No. 27 in attendance. 
Score: 4
    
Payroll
Chicago outspent only the Rays and Athletics in 2017 and should have a tight belt again in 2018 as it keeps spots open for its bevy of emerging stars. An ancillary veteran or two could be brought on board, but any large, multiyear deals will probably have to wait.
Score: 3
     
Can they win now?
Not yet. Of course, it's possible a baby-faced roster of touted prospects could all mature at once, but more likely Chicago will be a factor in 2019, 2020 and beyond. 
Score: 2
    
Can they win later?
You betcha. Nothing is guaranteed, obviously, but burgeoning blue chips such as infielder Yoan Moncada and flame-throwing Michael Kopech make the Sox one of the most exciting teams of tomorrow.
Score: 9
    
Total score: 18

Atmosphere
After qualifying for the postseason for three straight years from 2013 to 2015, the Pittsburgh Pirates missed the dance in each of the last two seasons. Concurrently, they sank to 25th in baseball in attendance. PNC Park is one of the more underappreciated yards in the game; these days, it's all too often quiet.
Score: 5
      
Payroll
The Pirates ranked 25th in payroll in 2017 and have never been known for handing out big contracts. Most of the chatter this winter should center on outfielder Andrew McCutchen, who will once again be the subject of trade scuttlebutt after Pittsburgh exercised his $14.75 million option.
Score: 3
     
Can they win now?
The Pirates have enough offensive weapons and emerging pitching talent to sneak back into the wild-card picture. After failing to reach 80 wins twice in a row, however, they run the risk of sinking from the picture.
Score: 5
    
Can they win later?
Youngsters such as Josh Bell, Jameson Taillon and Tyler Glasnow lost their prospect status in 2017, knocking Pittsburgh's system to No. 19. There's still nascent talent in the minor leagues and on the big-league roster, though, and the Pirates could add to it if they find a suitor for McCutchen. 
Score: 6
     
Total score: 19

Atmosphere
The Giants' NL-record 530-game sellout streak ended in 2017 as the club stumbled to 64-98 finish. Still, AT&T Park is one of the best venues in the game and the San Francisco fans have a lot of residual goodwill from the franchise's recent run of three titles in five years.
Score: 8
    
Payroll
The Giants had the sixth-highest payroll in baseball in 2017 and have been rumored to be in on the Marlins' Stanton, suggesting they aren't averse to taking on more coin. That said, they've got more payroll commitments for the 2019, 2020 and 2021 seasons than any other team. Locking up big-time free agents is going to mean either shedding other contracts or expanding the budget.
Score: 5
     
Can they win now?
If Madison Bumgarner stays off his dirt bike, Johnny Cueto and Matt Moore rebound in the rotation, closer Mark Melancon returns to form after an injury-marred first season by the Bay, and the Giants add some power to a punchless lineup, the answer is "probably." That's a lot of ifs, but management has indicated it has no plans to tear down the roster.
Score: 4
     
Can they win later?
With the game's No. 26 farm system and all those future monetary commitments, San Francisco is in a tough spot. For now, they seem determined to ride out the Buster Posey/Bumgarner window and let the future unfold as it does.
Score: 3
    
Total score: 20

Atmosphere
New York is a Yankees town even when the Mets are doing well. When the Mets are coming off a 92-loss season? Fuhgetaboutit. Still, the Big Apple is the Big Apple, and the team from Queens managed to average more than 30,000 fans per game despite a lackluster, injury-marred campaign. 
Score: 6
     
Payroll
The Mets don't spend like the Yankees, either. They ranked 14th in payroll in 2017 and could be looking to slash that figure this winter, per Mike Puma of the New York Post. Translation: Don't expect any of this winter's top free agents to don the blue and orange. 
Score: 4
    
Can they win now?
If they get healthy, yes. A full season from injured ace Noah Syndergaard is a must, but the rest of the battered roster needs to stay on the field as well. The Mets can also hope for a breakout season from young shortstop Amed Rosario, who showed flashes during a rookie audition.
Score: 5
    
Can they win later?
The Mets have the game's 20th-ranked farm system and most of their top prospects haven't advanced past Single-A. Rosario and first baseman Dominic Smith are high-upside youngsters, however, and Syndergaard is still only 25. There's uncertainty at Citi Field, but all is not lost going forward.
Score: 5
    
Total score: 20

Atmosphere
After winning two straight AL West titles, the Texas Rangers have ceded Lone Star State supremacy to the champion Houston Astros. For a franchise that has yet to win a title of its own, that had to sting. Arlington fans are faithful, however, and the Rangers still outdrew the 'Stros during the regular season.
Score: 6
     
Payroll
The Rangers had the game's eighth-highest payroll in 2017 and figure to spend this winter to get back into the playoff picture. Even after dealing Yu Darvish to the Dodgers at the trade deadline, general manager Jon Daniels has made it clear a rebuild is not in the offing. "We expect to win," Daniels said, per MLB.com's T.R. Sullivan. "We are always going to have that mindset." 
Score: 6
    
Can they win now?
Texas snuck into the wild-card race even after shipping Darvish out. They finished 78-84, but an immediate return to contention is possible if the club can add pitching.
Score: 6
    
Can they win later?
The Rangers replenished a depleted farm with the Darvish trade, acquiring power-hitting second baseman Willie Calhoun. It's still only the No. 21 system in baseball, however; hence Daniels' emphasis on a win-now mentality.
Score: 4
    
Total score: 22

Atmosphere
The Orioles finished dead-last in the AL East and drew fewer fans than any Junior Circuit team other than Chicago, Oakland and Tampa Bay. The O's made the playoffs in 2012, 2014 and 2016, and the Baltimore fanbase could undoubtedly be reignited with another "even year" run.
Score: 5
    
Payroll
Baltimore ranked ninth in payroll in 2017 and will have some room to spend this winter. Whether they spread it around or toss it at a top-shelf target, the Orioles figure to be hot-stove players.
Score: 7
    
Can they win now?
If they make the right additions in free agency, particularly on the pitching side, the O's could flutter into the wild-card picture. It's more difficult to imagine them hanging with the Red Sox and Yankees at the top of the division. 
Score: 5
    
Can they win later?
A formerly bottom-tier farm system rose to No. 15 in Reuter's latest ranking, a good sign going forward. The biggest future question mark for the Orioles, however, is whether they can possibly hope to keep franchise third baseman Manny Machado, who is set to hit free agency after the 2018 season (spoiler alert: probably not).
Score: 6
    
Total score: 23

Atmosphere
Despite a fourth-place finish, the Toronto Blue Jays drew the fifth-most fans in the game in 2017. Simply put, they are baseball north of the border.
Score: 7
    
Payroll
The Jays checked in with the game's fourth-highest payroll in 2017. They'll be shedding veteran outfielder Jose Bautista's contract, but a number of players—including third baseman Josh Donaldson and right-hander Marcus Stroman—should get significant raises in arbitration. Toronto could surprise, but any megapayouts appear unlikely. 
Score: 6
    
Can they win now?
A bounce-back is possible, particularly with better health from Donaldson and others. As with Baltimore, it's possible Toronto could be a wild-card factor. Also like the O's, they don't appear equipped to hang with New York and Boston. 
Score: 5
    
Can they win later?
The Blue Jays system isn't stacked with MLB-ready talent, but there are several prospects in the pipeline who could have an impact in 2019 and beyond. That includes second-generation big league hopefuls Vladimir Guerrero Jr. and Bo Bichette, each of whom teased big things in their first full pro seasons.
Score: 6
    
Total score: 24

Atmosphere
After a 103-loss season in 2016, the Minnesota Twins shocked the baseball world and grabbed the AL's second wild card. They still finished No. 21 in attendance and will never compete with the big-market bullies for attention and eyeballs. That said, there's buzz around the team again.
Score: 6
    
Payroll
The Twins define "small market," though they did rank a respectable No. 19 in payroll last season. They're unlikely to net any of the biggest free-agent fish, but management won't be afraid to bolster this rising young roster.
Score: 5
    
Can they win now?
Skeptics will point to the Twins' ho-hum plus-21 run differential, the lowest of any 2017 playoff team. Fair enough. Results are results, though, and Minnesota will be looking to build on them in 2018.
Score: 6
    
Can they win later?
In addition to the young talent on the roster, the Twins have the game's No. 14-ranked farm system and a handful of top prospects who could see big league action in 2018. 
Score: 7
    
Total score: 24

Atmosphere
In what was supposed to be a rebuilding year, the Milwaukee Brewers gave the Cubs a run for their money in the NL Central and finished 10th in attendance after ranking 16th in 2016. Milwaukee will never be New York or L.A., but it's a solid baseball town thirsty for a winner.
Score: 7
    
Payroll
The Brewers resisted the urge to trade top prospects at the deadline—and for good reason. With MLB's smallest payroll, their path to contention is through drafting and development, not splashy free-agent signings. 
Score: 3
    
Can they win now?
They just proved the answer is "yes." Now, like Minnesota, they'll try to continue their ascent and prove 2017 was no fluke.
Score: 6
    
Can they win later?
The Brew Crew boast baseball No. 5 farm system, headlined by outfielder Lewis Brinson, a five-tool talent who got his first taste of The Show in 2017. The rebuild blossomed ahead of schedule, but there's a lot more talent coming down the pike.
Score: 8
    
Total score: 24

Atmosphere
The Arizona Diamondbacks rebounded from a dismal 2016 to claim the NL's top wild-card spot and advance to the division series in 2017, yet finished 20th in attendance. There are loyal Snakes fans, to be sure, and Arizona can be an attractive destination for some players who own homes there. It's possible, though, it'll always be more of a spring training town.
Score: 7
    
Payroll
With right-hander Zack Greinke's hefty salary and 14 players set to hit salary arbitration, the Diamondbacks may not have room in their 20th-ranked payroll for any major signings. That includes bringing back free-agent outfielder J.D. Martinez, who injected serious pop into the lineup after coming over from Detroit at the deadline.
Score: 5
    
Can they win now?
Even without Martinez, the D-backs have a solid lineup fronted by MVP-caliber first baseman Paul Goldschmidt and a strong rotation led by Greinke. Even if they slip a bit from their 93-win 2017 finish, they'll be squarely in the postseason picture.
Score: 8
    
Can they win later?
Arizona is working to improve a farm system that checks in at No. 24 in the game. General manager Mike Hazen and his front office appear committed to building a sustainable winner after picking up the pieces from the disastrous Dave Stewart era.
Score: 5
    
Total score: 25

Atmosphere
The Rockies' return to the postseason got Coors Field jumping again, as Colorado finished eighth in attendance and even made that stupid purple dinosaur mascot seem semi-tolerable. The Rox do have a conundrum when it comes to attracting free agents: Hitters love the Mile High air, but top pitchers may balk.
Score: 7
    
Payroll
Colorado was 17th in payroll in 2017, but it should have some money to spend this winter with Carlos Gonzalez's contract coming off the books. After tasting the playoffs but getting bumped in the Wild Card Game, management will need to stay active to remain relevant in the top-heavy NL West. 
Score: 5
    
Can they win now?
Clearly, yes, though they'll have to address some holes in the bullpen and add a bat or two. Again, the West is simply too competitive to stand pat.
Score: 7
    
Can they win later?
The Rockies have the No. 19 system in the game, headlined by infielder Brendan Rodgers. A lot of Colorado's young pitching talent graduated to the big leagues, which dinged their prospect ranking but bodes well for the future.
Score: 6
    
Total score: 25

Atmosphere
The Atlanta Braves moved into a shiny new stadium in 2017 and lost 90 games. As a result, despite the allure of that fresh-ballpark smell, they finished 13th in attendance. Of course, there is a legion of Braves fans who fondly recall the club's ludicrously long stretch of winning from the 90s and early 2000s, and they will be ready to return if and when the Braves' fertile farm bears fruit.
Score: 6
    
Payroll
The Braves are building from the minors, but even with MLB's No. 18 payroll, they will have money to spend this winter if they choose, especially if they can find a taker for even a portion of the $19 million they owe outfielder Matt Kemp in 2018 and 2019.
Score: 6
    
Can they win now?
Atlanta is probably another year away from serious contention. The NL East is a soft division, however, after the defending champion Nationals. A second-place finish and fringe wild-card bid aren't entirely out of the question.
Score: 4
    
Can they win later?
This is where it gets good. Infielder and top prospect Ozzie Albies made the jump to the majors, joining fellow rookie Dansby Swanson, and the Braves system still rates as the best in the game, narrowly edging the White Sox's. Ronald Acuna, a 19-year-old outfielder, is likewise banging on the big league door and 20-year-old lefty Kolby Allard could be close behind. 
Score: 9
    
Total score: 25

Atmosphere
The Indians posted the best record in the American League and won a second straight AL Central title, yet finished No. 22 in attendance. Still, there's an undeniable attraction to helping the Tribe break baseball's longest active championship drought—not to mention playing for a proven winner.
Score: 7
    
Payroll
Last December, the Indians gave slugger Edwin Encarnacion a contract worth $65 million guaranteed, the largest in franchise history. In an era when nine-figure deals are commonplace, that tells you all you need to know about Cleveland's spending habits. They ranked 18th in payroll in 2017; that number might inch upward, but it won't approach "gaudy." 
Score: 4
    
Can they win now?
They can and they will. The Indians could lose some key pieces to free agency, including first baseman Carlos Santana. The core that has made them one of the AL's top teams is intact, however, and they're the odds-on favorites in the muddled Central.
Score: 10
    
Can they win later?
Like many contending clubs, the Indians have thinned their farm system via promotions and trades. There remains talent, however, including potential franchise catcher Francisco Mejia. 
Score: 5
    
Total score: 26

Atmosphere
St. Louis Cardinals fans are known for being some of the most knowledgeable and fair-minded in the game. The Cards, despite missing the postseason, are perennial contenders and ranked second only to the Dodgers in attendance. St. Louis isn't a coastal metropolis, but it's one of America's great baseball cities. 
Score: 9
    
Payroll
The Cardinals ranked 16th in payroll in 2017 and rank among the top 10 in terms of money committed for 2018 and 2019. That doesn't mean they'll be inactive this winter, but don't count on any "Brink's truck" expenditures.  
Score: 5
    
Can they win now?
The Cardinals hung around the wild-card race in 2017 and could do the same in 2018, particularly if budding ace Alex Reyes successfully returns from Tommy John surgery. Challenging the archrival Cubs will prove more difficult. 
Score: 6
    
Can they win later?
St. Louis has the No. 11 system in the game as well as a rich history of developing players and effectively plugging them in at the highest level. Eventually the Cardinals could hit an extended losing skid, but it's tough to imagine. 
Score: 7
    
Total score: 27

Atmosphere
The Washington Nationals ran away with their second consecutive NL East flag and finished 11th in attendance. They once again failed to advance past the division series, however, and fired manager Dusty Baker. The mood in the nation's capital is pensive heading into 2018—and that's just on the baseball side.
Score: 6
    
Payroll
The Nationals don't have many glaring holes to fill this winter, so while they could make a bold move to challenge for NL supremacy, they don't need to break what could already be the biggest budget in franchise history. 
Score: 6
    
Can they win now?
They can, and they'd better. The Bryce Harper window is closing fast.
Score: 10
    
Can they win later?
With speedy outfielder Victor Robles leading the way, the Nationals have the game's No. 12 farm system. Again, though, so much hinges on Harper, who is poised to bolt for a ludicrous free-agent payday after 2018.
Score: 6
    
Total score: 28

Atmosphere
Satiated by a trio of titles, Red Sox Nation is no longer a rabid, intimidating monolith. Oh, sure, the Boston media will chew you up and spit you out if you don't perform, but the chance to play at Fenway Park in front of passionate crowds for a historic club that's won back-to-back division titles would pique any free agent's interest.
Score: 7
    
Payroll
The Red Sox ranked third in payroll in 2017. They've got a lot of money tied up in recent signings such as left-hander David Price, and their young core will get exponentially more expensive as the years go by. Executive Dave Dombrowski will spend money, however, and the Sox will (mostly) let him.
Score: 7
    
Can they win now?
Boston needs to add some pop after finishing last in the AL in home runs and could use some help in the starting rotation. Even if they stood pat, however, they'd be a factor in the 2018 playoff race.
Score: 9
    
Can they win later?
True to his Dealin' Dave nickname, Dombrowski has depleted a once-robust farm system that now ranks No. 23 in baseball. That said, with outfielders Mookie Betts and Andrew Benintendi and third baseman Rafael Devers—among others—climbing toward their primes, Boston's winning window is open wide.
Score: 7
    
Total score: 30

Atmosphere
The Cubs buried the billy goat in 2016 and brought catharsis to millions of long-suffering fans. Anything less than a repeat was going to feel like a letdown. At the same time, this is an exciting young team that once again advanced to the National League Championship Series and plays in an iconic ballpark in a large, enthusiastic market.
Score: 9
    
Payroll
The Cubs were 10th in payroll in 2017 and have money coming off the books. They also will owe increasingly large sums to their cadre of young stars as they enter salary arbitration and approach free agency. Chicago will open the purse strings as needed, but it can't spend without thinking.
Score: 7
    
Can they win now?
Chicago has work to do this winter with starters Jake Arrieta and John Lackey and closer Wade Davis all hitting the market. The club has depth, versatility and a clear win-now mandate, however, and is the odds-on favorite to remain atop the NL Central.
Score: 9
    
Can they win later?
The farm system that executive Theo Epstein painstakingly built has been reduced to rubble by trades and promotions. Much of that talent is on the 25-man roster and contributing, however, with guys like Kris Bryant and Javier Baez not yet in their prime.
Score: 8
    
Total score: 33

Atmosphere
The Houston Astros won their first World Series for a city that was ravaged by a natural disaster but rose strong. It's impossible to conjure a more fertile atmosphere for good vibes, even minus a storied franchise history. 
Score: 8
    
Payroll
Once regarded as the tight-spending "Lastros," Houston ranked 15th in MLB payroll in 2017. With the taste of champagne fresh in their mouths, it's possible management will open the purse strings to sign a marquee free agent, though the 'Stros need to make sure they can pay their emerging core of young studs as they get more expensive. 
Score: 6
    
Can they win now?
All the key pieces that won the title for Houston will be back. Repeating as champions is hard (ask the Cubbies), but the Astros will get an opportunity come October.
Score: 10
     
Can they win later?
Even with all the nascent talent on the MLB roster, the Astros have enough percolating in the minors to rate as the No. 13 farm system. They won't have to spend like the Yanks or Dodgers to be a top contender for the foreseeable future.
Score: 9
    
Total score: 33

Atmosphere
Say what you will about the new Yankee Stadium not carrying the cache of the House That Ruth Built. It's still baseball in pinstripes in the Bronx for one of the most famous sports franchises in human history. If you can make it here...
Score: 10
    
Payroll
The Yankees have slipped from their perch as baseball's biggest spenders. They're no longer the club that will automatically shell out the most money to get whomever they want. They can still sling dinero, however, and have dough coming off the books. Whether they'll spend it or save it for the mythical 2018-19 free-agent class remains to be seen.
Score: 8
    
Can they win now?
New York got within a game of the World Series. The 2017 season was an unqualified success for this alleged "rebuild." Next year will be fun to watch, even if there are questions at the back end of the rotation and the possibility of young hitters taking a step back.
Score: 9
    
Can they win later?
Aaron Judge and Gary Sanchez highlight the youngsters already crushing at the MLB level, and there's ample talent waiting in the wings. Add the possibility of big-time free-agent pickups and you've got a new dynasty in the offing.
Score: 10
    
Total score: 37

Atmosphere
Yes, for the 29th straight year the Dodgers did not win the World Series. They won their first pennant since '88, though, and advanced to Game 7 of one of the best Fall Classics in recent memory. L.A. fans get a bum rap for leaving early to beat the traffic and tossing beach balls on the field, but they also packed Dodger Stadium in MLB-leading numbers.
Score: 9
    
Payroll
The Dodgers have baseball's biggest budget. While the luxury tax may prevent them from simply signing every available free agent, they go after what they want and usually get it.
Score: 9
    
Can they win now?
Key pieces of the 2017 roster will be back, and you can bet executive Andrew Friedman and company will capably plug what holes there are. The Dodgers have competition from Arizona and Colorado out West, but they're the class of the NL until further notice.
Score: 10
    
Can they win later?
Los Angeles can spend, but it can also dip into a farm system that's still No. 9 in the game despite trades, promotions and a long stretch of winning, which generally means lower draft picks and less incoming talent. It could be a long, long while until Los Angeles posts a sub-.500 record.
Score: 10
    
Total score: 38
     
All statistics and contract information courtesy of Baseball Reference unless otherwise noted; payroll figures courtesy of Spotrac; farm system rankings via Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter.



MLB celebrated the best defensive players from 2017 as Rawlings handed out the Gold Glove Awards for each position Tuesday night.    
Below are the Gold Glove winners from the American and National Leagues.
     
American League
National League
     
Colorado Rockies third baseman Nolan Arenado wasn't among the three finalists for National League Most Valuable Player, but his defensive efforts weren't ignored in 2017. The 26-year-old won his fifth straight Gold Glove, which ties Larry Walker for the most in franchise history.
ESPN Stats and Info put Arenado's achievements in perspective:
Nolan Arenado has won a Gold Glove in all 5 of his MLB seasons. The only other player to win at least 5 Gold Gloves to start his career is Ichiro Suzuki, who won in each of his 1st 10 seasons (2001-10).

@EliasSports

Gold Glove Award show live on ESPN https://t.co/F7fWkmr0GW
Denver7 News' Troy Renck wondered whether Arenado can make history with his glove at the hot corner:
#Rockies Arenado wins his fifth Gold Glove. Has chance to go down as best defensive third baseman of all time. #Denver7
Chicago Cubs right fielder Jason Heyward joined Arenado in winning his fifth Gold Glove.
Heyward once again struggled at the plate in 2017, batting .259 with a .326 on-base percentage. Nobody questioned his defense, though, as he tied for fourth among outfielders in defensive runs saved (18), according to FanGraphs.
In one of the tighter Gold Glove races, Minnesota Twins center fielder Byron Buxton beat out Lorenzo Cain of the Kansas City Royals and Kevin Pillar of the Toronto Blue Jays. That list didn't even include Tampa Bay Rays center fielder Kevin Kiermaier, who remains one of the best defensive players in MLB despite appearing in 98 games.
Buxton reacted to his win on Twitter:
Thankful for all the support all season long through the ups and the downs! Beyond blessed to win my 1st Gold Glove! #Gold
Neither MLB.com's Anthony Castrovince nor Rhett Bollinger expects Buxton's 2017 Gold Glove to be his last:
I feel like Byron Buxton will win a few of these Gold Glove things before all is said and done.
No surprise. Byron Buxton wins his first Gold Glove Award in center field. Could be the first of many for Buxton. #MNTwins
While the 2017 season represented the long-awaited breakout for Buxton, the year was a return to form for fellow American League Central player Alex Gordon.
The Kansas City Royals outfielder won four straight Gold Gloves between 2011 and 2014 and added a fifth Tuesday night. Gordon's 11.6 ultimate zone rating was third-best among outfielders, according to FanGraphs.
Tucker Barnhart provided the biggest surprise as the Cincinnati Reds catcher beat out the reigning NL Gold Glove holder, Buster Posey, and eight-time Gold Glove winner Yadier Molina.
Barnhart's wife, Sierra, predicted his win more than a month ago:
When you lowkey think that your dad should get the gold glove #thatsmirk https://t.co/tbS7fAkWnA
MLB award season is far from over following Tuesday's reveal of the 18 Gold Glove winners. On Monday, the league announced the finalists for the top honors, including MVP, Cy Young and Rookie of the Year. All three awards will be handed out from Nov. 13-16.
Fans can also vote for the Platinum Glove Award, which goes to the best defensive player in each league.
Cleveland Indians shortstop Francisco Lindor and Cubs first baseman Anthony Rizzo were the Platinum Glove winners in their respective leagues in 2016, and neither one even won a Gold Glove this year. This year's Platinum Glove vote will likely come down to the wire.



What I remember most is the early mornings, spring of 2010.
This was away from the noise of Roy Halladay's two Cy Young awards, eight All-Star appearances and the absolute brilliance of what would come some eight months later, when he no-hit Cincinnati in Game 1 of the Cincinnati Reds-Philadelphia Phillies Division Series, his first-ever postseason appearance.
No. This was 8 a.m., just after the Phillies' clubhouse opened to the media at their spring training home in Clearwater, Florida. Following more than a decade with the Toronto Blue Jays, Halladay was 33, wanted desperately to win and had engineered an offseason trade to the Phillies for two reasons.
One, they were coming off consecutive World Series appearances in 2008 and 2009. And two, because he lived with his wife and two young sons just a short drive from Philadelphia's camp and wanted to spend as much time with them as possible.
Inside that mid-February clubhouse what the Phillies couldn't stop talking about regarding their new ace was how early Halladay arrived every day.
Like, 4:30-or-5-in-the-morning early.
A minor leaguer named Phillippe Aumont told me he had been in town three weeks and had yet to beat Halladay to the Phillies' workout facility in the morning. Veteran closer Brad Lidge told me of Halladay's legendary workouts, "when I'm getting here at 9 in the morning, he's finishing up."
Greatness becomes publicly visible in front of 47,000 standing, frenzied fans during the maw of a no-hitter, or in the throes of a perfect game, or in the plow horse workload of eight 200-inning seasons.
But greatness begins at home, before dawn and alone. It feeds on drive, and it is fueled by ambition.
Roy Halladay, who died Tuesday unspeakably early, at the prime-of-life age of 40, when the small aircraft he was piloting crashed into the Gulf of Mexico, tapped into those things as much as any ace of his generation.
He was great for the Toronto Blue Jays for most of a decade, he was great for the Phillies from 2010-13, and when his shoulder frayed and the hop disappeared from his fastball following all of those innings and finally led him into retirement, he was great with his family.

He reappeared this spring talking about it. He always said he'd be back one day, that baseball always would be in his blood, but worn out from the weight and expectations of two organizations upon retirement, first he needed to go home and be a dad and a husband. And when he finally came back this spring to help with the Phillies' pitchers, he was essentially moonlighting. His real job was as the pitching coach at Calvary Christian High School, a mere mile away from the Phillies' complex, where his son Braden, 16, was a sophomore pitcher. His other son, Ryan, is now 12.
As a competitor, as a father, as a friend, as someone who gave of his time to charity, Halladay earned rave reviews from whichever clubhouse he called home. He led by example and was widely admired, and with baseball's family scattered for the winter following the conclusion of the World Series last week, the shattering, sickening news spread quickly, and the reactions only reinforced it.
One night I️ will never forget the intensity he pitched with and carried us to a victory🤙🏽🤙🏽🤙🏽all he did was compliment Chooch on calling a great game taking minimal credit...that’s who he was🤙🏽 https://t.co/ZXFZsRRtY8
Another spring morning, this one in 2009.
Halladay ran through a workout with Toronto in what would be his final spring with the Blue Jays. Indications were growing that he would be traded within the next year. The Canadian dollar had taken a beating in a slumping economy and the Jays were forced to slice payroll. The club's owner, Ted Rogers, had died months before. Meanwhile, Halladay wasn't getting any younger. But when I caught him at the end of the team's workout, he still hadn't run through his own individual workout. If you want to hang around, he told me, I'll talk. But he warned: It's going to be a while.
I went out and grabbed a sandwich, drove back to Toronto's facility and, finally, some 90 minutes after the team had finished working out, Halladay was finishing up. The rest of the Jays had a free afternoon and plans. Halladay had a weight room and lifting.
"I want to be a part of this team making that push," Halladay told me after morning had faded into afternoon as we talked the one subject he always came back to: winning. "It becomes important for any player. Your priorities change. When you come up, you want to establish yourself. Now, after you've been around awhile, all you want to do is win. And the shorter the window, you start getting a little anxious."
He was a big man, 6'6", and could be intimidating. His fastball sizzled. His presence dominated. But he also had one other weapon he utilized, one that not every big flamethrower will: his mind. Early in his Toronto career, after the Jays dispatched him back to the minors when he was still trying to establish himself, he sought out a man named Harvey Dorfman, who was a pioneer in the field of sports psychology.
It was Halladay's wife, Brandy, who actually gets credit. Browsing at a bookstore, she happened upon one of Dorfman's seminal books, The Mental ABC's of Pitching: A Handbook for Performance Enhancement, and picked it up, thinking perhaps it would help boost her husband's confidence. He devoured it, became a Dorfman disciple and rocketed to superstardom shortly thereafter.
By the time he finished, he had thrown a whopping 67 complete games and 20 shutouts.
In his spare time he loved flying, and he purchased the ICON A5 only a few weeks ago that crashed:
I have dreamed about owning a A5 since I retired! Real life is better then my dreams!! Thx Kirk &amp; everyone @ICONAircraft https://t.co/wkk6TtjAY4
His own kids older now, Halladay's return to the game this spring was viewed as the first step to what eventually would have become a more permanent role with the Phillies.
Instead, news of Halladay's death was sudden, stunning and horrible. And as it soaks in, I think back to Aumont, who remained with the Phillies through 2015, lived his dream of playing with Halladay and retired this summer after landing in Charlotte, North Carolina, Triple-A affiliate of the Chicago White Sox.
"When I get to Canada, that's all I hear, Halladay, Halladay, Halladay," Aumont, a Quebec native, told me on that long ago February morning. "Now I get to be in the same clubhouse with him. I've watched him since I was 15 years old. And now, five or six years later, you're together in the same clubhouse."
And I can't help but think back to the solitude of those spring mornings, Halladay hard at work, the horizon wide open, open to whatever he would make of it.
Around the memories, through the tears, a legacy now carries on in a wholly different way than ever intended.
      
Scott Miller covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report. Follow Scott on Twitter and talk baseball.



Bartolo Colon isn't looking to end his MLB career. The 44-year-old pitcher reportedly plans to pitch in the 2018 season if he's signed as a free agent. 
Mark Feinsand of MLB.com reported the news.
Colon, who made his MLB debut in 1997, split the 2017 season with the Atlanta Braves and Minnesota Twins. He posted a 7-14 record with a 6.48 ERA and 1.59 WHIP.
Twins fans gave Colon a standing ovation in his final start with the team last month as an apparent farewell.
"It was amazing," Colon told reporters. "For them to do that for me almost made me want to cry. It was a beautiful moment for me."
While far from his peak, Colon was much better in Minnesota than he was with the Braves. He posted a 5-6 record with a 5.18 ERA in Minnesota, compared to a 2-8 record and 8.14 ERA in Atlanta.



Former Toronto Blue Jays and Philadelphia Phillies ace Roy Halladay died Tuesday in a plane crash in the Gulf of Mexico, according to ESPN.com. 
The Phillies shared a statement about the death of the two-time Cy Young Award winner:
Phillies statement on the sudden &amp; tragic passing of Roy Halladay: https://t.co/gGhv7JUKv0
The team was joined by its Philadelphia brethren in offering prayers to Halladay's family:
We are deeply saddened by the tragic news of the passing of Roy Halladay. We extend our thoughts and condolences to his family &amp; loved ones. https://t.co/IH76mnQ1S5
The Eagles are saddened to learn of the passing of Phillies icon Roy Halladay. Our thoughts are with his family and friends. https://t.co/hyonhmVntj
The 76ers organization is saddened to learn of the passing of Philadelphia Phillies great Roy Halladay. We extend our sincere condolences to his loved ones and our friends within the Phillies organization during this difficult time.
A number of athletes also eulogized Halladay on social media:
Heart is broken to hear about Roy Halladay .great friend, teammate, father and husband. One of the best teammates ever! You will be missed !
Rest In Peace Doc Halladay. One of the best to ever do it. You will be missed.
RIP to Roy Halladay. When I played baseball, I always wanted to pitch like “Doc”.
In shock over the terrible news about Roy Halladay... a pitcher I grew up admiring &amp; rooting for. Praying for his family &amp; friends. #RIPDoc
I wanted to be Roy Halladay. I’m heartbroken, rest easy Doc.
Halladay won 203 games as a starter and reached the All-Star Game on eight occasions. He was one of the best pitchers of the 2000s.
His 65.3 WAR between 2001 and 2012 ranks first among qualified pitchers, according to FanGraphs. His 3.12 FIP was also fourth-best among qualified starters during that span.
Most memorably, Halladay threw a no-hitter in Game 1 of the 2010 National League Division Series against the Cincinnati Reds. It was only the second no-hitter in MLB postseason history. Many remembered Halladay's dominant performance on the mound that night:
Halladay retired in December 2013 after signing a one-day contract with the Blue Jays to bring his MLB career full circle.
Halladay will be eligible for enshrinement in the Baseball Hall of Fame beginning in 2019.



Two-time Cy Young Award winner Roy Halladay, who pitched for the Toronto Blue Jays and Philadelphia Phillies, was killed in a plane crash at the age of 40 on Tuesday. 
Per Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports, the Pasco County Sheriff's Department confirmed Halladay was killed in a plane crash in the Gulf of Mexico.
Major League Baseball and the Phillies offered their condolences on Twitter after learning of Hallday's death:
We are saddened by the tragic news that Roy Halladay, 2-time Cy Young Award winner &amp; 8-time All-Star, has died in a plane crash. He was 40. https://t.co/SOFv3bOLyt
Phillies statement on the sudden &amp; tragic passing of Roy Halladay: https://t.co/gGhv7JUKv0
Halladay pitched 16 seasons in MLB with the Blue Jays and Phillies. He was a first-round draft pick by Toronto in 1995 and made his MLB debut on Sept. 20, 1998. 
In 12 seasons with the Blue Jays, Halladay was named to the American League All-Star team six times and won the 2003 AL Cy Young Award. He was traded to Philadelphia after the 2009 season and won the National League Cy Young Award in his first year with the Phillies. 
The Colorado native led all starting pitchers with 58.7 FanGraphs wins above replacement from 2002-11 and ranked fifth with a 2.97 ERA. He became the second pitcher in MLB history with a postseason no-hitter when he shut out the Cincinnati Reds 4-0 in Game 1 of the 2010 NLDS. 
Halladay is one of six pitchers in MLB history to win the Cy Young Award in both leagues. He also worked with the Phillies and Blue Jays as a guest instructor during spring training after retiring following the 2013 season. 



The MLB free-agency period officially opened Monday, as players can begin signing with new teams less than a week after the Houston Astros captured the 2017 World Series.
We aren't likely to see a flurry of immediate activity. MLB's free-agency period is a bit more slow moving than the three other major professional sports. Agents like Scott Boras prefer to take their time with negotiations on top-level free agents and can often milk the process for even a month or two before making a decision.
Some players, most often aging sluggers and pitchers, will hang out on the market as spring training nears before signing lucrative deals. Edwin Encarnacion did not sign until January last winter. 
Here is a look at a couple of rumors going around MLB at the moment, along with predictions for where top free agents sign.
                      
Rangers Still Interested in Alex Cobb?
A year ago the Texas Rangers were linked to a potential trade for pitcher Alex Cobb despite the righty recovering from Tommy John surgery.
Things have not changed following a stellar 2017 in Tampa. Jeff Wilson of the Star Telegram reported the Rangers still have interest in Cobb as he becomes a free agent this winter. 
Cobb went 12-10 with a 3.66 ERA and 1.22 WHIP in 29 starts last season. His 179.1 innings were a career high.
"As vital as he's been on the mound, he's probably been just as vital in the clubhouse and the way he's carried himself," Rays manager Kevin Cash said last month, per Marc Topkin of the Tampa Bay Times. "He's been vocal when he needs to be vocal, and quiet when he needs to be quiet and grabbed a guy aside. Alex has never really made it about him—he's always made it about the club and about helping his teammates."
The Rangers would be looking for Cobb to fill a back-half slot in their rotation, and he should come at a relatively reasonable price. Cobb has never won more than 12 games in a season. The highest WAR of his career is 2.8, which is a fine number but not something worthy of building a staff around. 
It's possible Cobb winds up becoming one of the bargains of this free-agency class because of his relative consistency—he's posted an above-2 WAR each of his last four healthy seasons—and lack of a truly elite season.
                  
Eric Hosmer Return Still an Option?
When Eric Hosmer, Mike Moustakas, Lorenzo Cain and Alcides Escobar tipped their caps to Royals fans at their home finale, it was the end of an era. All four players are free agents this winter, and the mid-market Royals aren't going to be able to sign them all. Or possibly any of them.
The Royals have made it clear which of the four they prefer to keep, if any. Rustin Dodd of the Kansas City Star reported the team is expected to attempt to coax Hosmer into staying while "monitoring the market for his services." Kansas City wants to retain Hosmer at a reasonable price and sees him as a fit for whatever the organization decides to do moving forward.
Dodd wrote that agent Scott Boras is hoping to fetch $200 million, which would likely be out of the Royals' price range. The $200 million could be a little steep for any team, especially given Hosmer's production does not match up with such an exorbitant contact.
Hosmer set a career high with a 4.1 WAR in 2017 but was worth -0.1 wins a year prior. Over the last four seasons, 11 first basemen have been worth more wins.
The leadership qualities Hosmer provides to a clubhouse are important but should be more valuable to the Royals than any other team. If any team is going to get him in even the $150 million range, it should be Kansas City. 
                
Top MLB Free Agents 
1. Yu Darvish (predicted destination: re-signs with Dodgers)
2. J.D. Martinez (predicted destination: signs with Giants)
3. Jake Arrieta (predicted destination: signs with Angels)
4. Eric Hosmer (predicted destination: re-signs with Royals)
5. Mike Moustakas (predicted destination: signs with Cardinals)
6. Jay Bruce (predicted destination: signs with Rangers)
7. Wade Davis (predicted destination: re-signs with Cubs)
8. Lorenzo Cain (predicted destination: signs with Red Sox)
9. Lance Lynn (predicted destination: signs with Rangers)
10. Carlos Santana (predicted destination: re-signs with Indians)



The 2017-18 MLB offseason is underway, and while November is generally more about tidying up rosters and sorting out contract options and qualifying offers, it's never too early to discuss potential blockbuster deals.
Ahead we've proposed five such trades that would make sense for both sides and could have a legitimate shot at happening as a result.
Predicting which prospects will be on the move is always a crapshoot, but these proposals should provide an idea of what type of return can be expected for the established players who'll potentially be on the move this winter.

Cardinals Get: RHP Kelvin Herrera
Herrera is one year away from free agency, so the soon-to-be rebuilding Kansas City Royals could look to flip him this winter in a deal similar to the one that sent Wade Davis to the Chicago Cubs last offseason.
In the five years leading up to 2017, the hard-throwing righty established himself as one of the game's elite setup relievers. During that span, he appeared in 349 games and tallied 106 holds while logging a 2.57 ERA, 1.12 WHIP and 9.1 strikeouts per nine innings. He also made a pair of All-Star appearances.
The 27-year-old moved into the closer's role in 2017, but his results were less than stellar, and a forearm strain slowed him in the second half.
He ended up saving 26 games in 31 chances while posting a 4.25 ERA and 1.35 WHIP.
With no drop-off in his stuff and a full offseason to get back to 100 percent, he looks like a prime candidate for a bounce-back effort. Even if he's not acquired to serve as the Cardinals' closer, he would be a huge addition to St. Louis' relief corps. 
              
Royals Get: SS Aledmys Diaz
The Royals acquired a controllable player with MLB experience when they traded Davis for slugger Jorge Soler last offseason.
With holes to fill all over the roster following a possible mass free-agency exodus (Lorenzo Cain, Eric Hosmer, Mike Moustakas, Alcides Escobar), the front office could once again prefer controllable MLB talent over prospects.
Diaz was a revelation as a rookie in 2016, hitting .300/.369/.510 with 48 extra-base hits and 65 RBI to earn a spot on the NL All-Star team and finish fifth in Rookie of the Year voting while posting a 3.5 WAR.
However, he struggled to a .259/.290/.392 line over 301 plate appearances in 2017 and spent most of the second half in Triple-A after losing his job to rookie Paul DeJong.
Escobar's probable departure will leave the Royals with a hole to fill at shortstop, and Diaz provides intriguing upside and control through the 2022 season—two things that should appeal to a team with an eye toward rebuilding.

Angels Get: 2B Cesar Hernandez
Second base was nothing short of an offensive black hole for the Los Angeles Angels in 2017.
Danny Espinosa, Cliff Pennington, Kaleb Cowart, Brandon Phillips, Nick Franklin and Nolan Fontana combined to hit .206/.274/.327 for an MLB-low .601 OPS.
Cowart (117 PA, 89 OPS+, 0.3 WAR) and Fontana (23 PA, 2 OPS+, -0.3 WAR) are the only two from that group still on the roster, and upgrading at the keystone figures to be a priority for L.A.
Neil Walker is the only everyday option on the free-agent market, while Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald reported Marlins speedster Dee Gordon is readily available via trade. However, another option the team could explore is the Philadelphia Phillies' Cesar Hernandez.
The 27-year-old hit .294/.373/.421 with 41 extra-base hits and 15 stolen bases on his way to 3.1 WAR this season. In addition, his 6.4 WAR the past two years rank 10th among second basemen.
Further adding to his value is the fact he's under team control through 2020 and projected for a reasonable $4.7 million salary in his second year of arbitration, per MLB Trade Rumors.
     
Phillies Get: OF Brennon Lund, RHP Samil De Los Santos
Why would the rebuilding Phillies trade a 27-year-old who has three years of team control left?
The simple answer is he doesn't factor into their long-term plans, as prospects Scott Kingery and J.P. Crawford represent the double-play combination of the future.
Even though he won't bring a huge return, Hernandez should at least net a couple of mid-level prospects.
Lund, 22, was an 11th-round pick in 2016 and has already outperformed his draft position.
He hit .308/.373/.403 with 31 extra-base hits and 20 stolen bases over three minor league levels in 2017, reaching Double-A. MLB.com lauded his all-out style of play and compared him to Adam Eaton.
De Los Santos, 23, posted a 3.12 ERA, 1.27 WHIP and 10.4 K/9 with 12 saves in his first full season above the rookie ball level. The club saw enough potential to send him to the Arizona Fall League, and he has the stuff to be an impact reliever.
It's not a franchise-altering return by any means, but it gives the Phillies two young players capable of factoring into the rebuild and clears a path for Kingery.

Astros Get: LHP Brad Hand
Shoring up the relief corps is by far the biggest offseason need for the Houston Astros.
Closer Ken Giles and a number of other key relievers lost manager A.J. Hinch's confidence during the postseason, and with Luke Gregerson, Tyler Clippard and Francisco Liriano all reaching free agency there are holes to plug.
The fact the team was willing to take a flier on Liriano in the first place speaks to how badly it needed any sort of left-handed presence in the pen.
Tony Sipp (46 G, 5.79 ERA) and Reymin Guduan (22 G, 7.88 ERA) are the only southpaw relievers on the 40-man roster, and making a play for a quality lefty this winter seems like an obvious move for Houston.
Mike Minor, Jake McGee and Tony Watson headline the free-agent market, but a trade for Brad Hand is also an intriguing possibility.
The 27-year-old has posted a 2.56 ERA, 1.03 WHIP and 11.5 K/9 over 154 appearances since joining the San Diego Padres in 2016 when he made the full-time move to the bullpen.
He's under team control through 2019, and MLB Trade Rumors projects him for a palatable $3.8 million salary in 2018. After doling out a regrettable three-year, $18 million deal to re-sign Sipp in December 2015, the front office might prefer the shorter commitment and lower salary that Hand brings compared to those free-agent options.
          
Padres Get: 1B/OF Yordan Alvarez, 3B Colin Moran, RHP Dean Deetz
Hand is a likely trade candidate because his elite relief skills are largely wasted amidst the Padres' rebuild. Here's what I wrote in October when suggesting the above trade package:
The Padres' asking price for Hand over the summer was described as "exorbitant" by rivals, and they'll no doubt continue to aim high given his multiple years of remaining control.
While Kyle Tucker and Forrest Whitley will be untouchable, Yordan Alvarez has enough upside to potentially be the centerpiece of a blockbuster deal.
The 20-year-old landed a $2 million bonus from the Dodgers after leaving Cuba in 2016, and he was flipped to the Astros in exchange for reliever Josh Fields before his pro career began.
The 6'5", 225-pounder has some serious power potential and posted a .304/.379/.481 line with 17 doubles, 12 home runs and 69 RBI in 391 plate appearances between Single-A and High-A.
Packaging him alongside Colin Moran would make two potential impact bats in this deal.
Moran, 25, hit .308/.373/.543 with 18 home runs and 63 RBI in Triple-A, so he has little left to prove in the minors. However, he's also without a clear path to playing time in Houston and could be deemed expendable.
We'll round out the package with right-hander Dean Deetz, who could develop into a solid middle-of-the-rotation starter if his changeup continues to improve. Otherwise, he has the fastball/slider combination to be a weapon out of the bullpen.
If this package sounds light, you're underestimating the upside of Alvarez.
It still looks like a good deal for both sides.

Cubs Get: LHP Sean Manaea, RHP Blake Treinen
The Chicago Cubs are looking for a controllable young starter, and they're willing to trade from their position-player core if the right deal presents itself. 
Phil Rogers of MLB.com listed Chris Archer, Michael Fulmer, Marcus Stroman, Aaron Nola and Sean Manaea as five speculative targets, and we'll focus on Manaea as A's president of baseball operations Billy Beane has never shied away from the right deal.
The 25-year-old went 12-10 with a 4.37 ERA, 1.40 WHIP and 140 strikeouts over 158.2 innings for the Oakland A's in his second season in the majors. Those aren't eye-popping numbers, but there's plenty of reason to think he's just scratching the surface.
Manaea was a candidate to be selected No. 1 overall in the 2013 draft before a hip injury sidelined him during his junior season at Indiana State. He wound up slipping to No. 34 as a result.
However, he's had no lingering issues and has often flashed the potential that made him such a highly regarded prospect. Armed with a strong three-pitch mix that includes a fastball in the low 90s and a devastating wipeout slider, he has the tools to be a front-line starter.
He's also under team control through the 2022 season and won't even be arbitration-eligible for the first time until next offseason.
Also heading to Chicago in this deal is ground-ball machine Blake Treinen.
The 29-year-old posted a 58.4 percent ground-ball rate last season and owns a 61.4 percent mark for his career, which would play well in front of the Cubs' stellar defensive infield.
He pitched to a 2.13 ERA and 1.16 WHIP with 13 saves in 16 chances after joining the A's in a midseason trade, and he comes with extended team control through the 2020 season.
            
Athletics Get: SS Addison Russell, OF Mark Zagunis
Given manager Joe Maddon's love for Javier Baez and the front office's unceasing belief that Kyle Schwarber is a superstar in the making, it would seem Addison Russell is the most likely trade candidate from the Cubs' young core.
It would be a special kind of ironic to see Russell wind up back in Oakland where he began his pro career before joining the Cubs at the 2014 deadline in the ill-advised deal that sent Jeff Samardzija and Jason Hammel to the A's.
The big question: How much value does Russell have?
He was a 4.3 WAR player in 2016 when he hit 21 home runs and drove in 95 while playing stellar defense (19 DRS, 14.3 UZR/150) and helping lead the Cubs to a World Series title.
However, he hit just .239/.304/.418 this past season, and his WAR dipped to 2.4 as he dealt with injuries and off-field issues.
Still, the 23-year-old has legitimate superstar upside and plenty of time to reach it. Even if he never realizes his full offense potential, he was still an elite defender (15 DRS, 7.2 UZR/150) in 2017.
Adding MLB-ready outfield prospect Mark Zagunis could push the deal over the top.
The 24-year-old had a .404 on-base percentage with 21 doubles and 13 home runs in Triple-A last season, and he could immediately challenge for a spot in the Oakland outfield.

Dodgers Get: RF Giancarlo Stanton
There's no reason to think the Los Angeles Dodgers will stop their free-spending ways after they came one win away from their first World Series title since 1988.
Can you imagine a lineup of Chris Taylor, Corey Seager, Giancarlo Stanton, Cody Bellinger, Justin Turner, Yasiel Puig, Logan Forsythe and Austin Barnes?
That's a scary thought for the rest of the league, especially considering we're talking about a team that led the NL with a 3.38 ERA and will return an largely intact pitching staff (with the possible notable exceptions of Yu Darvish, Tony Watson and Brandon Morrow).
The big sticking point in the Marlins' effort to deal Stanton will be the 10 years and $270 million remaining on his contract. However, the Dodgers should have no problem fitting his $25 million salary on the 2018 payroll, and that's all they'll be concerned about as they continue to operate in win-now mode.
Andre Ethier's free agency and the removal of Carl Crawford and Alex Guerrero's dead money creates $46.8 million in payroll space.
Not only would Stanton be a great fit in the middle of the lineup and fill a need at the corner outfield spot opposite Puig, but acquiring him would also block the rival Giants—whom FanRag's Jon Heyman identified as the early favorites to land the slugger—from doing so
The flexibility to absorb the entirety of Stanton's money would keep the Dodgers from having to part with elite-level talent, but he still won't come cheap.
                  
Marlins Get: OF Joc Pederson, RHP Brock Stewart, RHP Mitchell White, LHP Caleb Ferguson
Pederson is an interesting potential centerpiece in this deal.
The 25-year-old hit a dismal .212 with 11 home runs in 323 plate appearances during the regular season, but he showed a vastly improved approach in the postseason and went 6-for-18 with three home runs in the World Series.
Pederson still has tremendous raw power, and hidden behind his weak batting average were strong peripherals as he walked at a solid clip (12.1 percent) and posted the lowest strikeout rate of his career (21.1 percent).
He's under team control through 2020 and is a buy-low candidate with All-Star potential.
Stewart, 26, would give the team a controllable arm with middle-of-the-rotation upside who could immediately step into a spot on the starting staff.
He dealt with shoulder troubles this past season but went 9-4 with a 1.79 ERA, 0.88 WHIP and 129 strikeouts in 121 innings in the upper minors in 2016. He's also under control through 2022.
White, 22, would be the big prospect in the deal.
A second-round pick in 2016, he checks in as the team's No. 7 prospect, per MLB.com. He reached Double-A last season and posted a 2.93 ERA, 1.03 WHIP and a .172 opponents' batting average with 88 strikeouts in 73.2 innings.
Further down the team prospect rankings—at No. 21 to be exact—Ferguson also turned heads in 2017.
The 21-year-old was a 38th-round pick in 2014 and nowhere to be found on prospect lists entering the season, but he went 9-4 with a 2.87 ERA and 140 strikeouts in 122.1 innings in a full season with High-A Rancho Cucamonga.
As a left-hander with good command and a three-pitch mix that has a chance to be above-average across the board, he suddenly looks like a lot more than just organizational depth.
That type of return while unloading the entirety of Stanton's contract will be exactly what the Marlins' new ownership group is looking for this winter.
         
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs, unless otherwise noted.



The Boston Red Sox are going to make moves this winter.
Sure, they've won back-to-back American League East titles, but each time they've failed to advance past the division series. They already fired their manager, John Farrell. 
Now, expect executive Dave Dombrowski and his brain trust to be aggressive in the free-agent and trade markets.
On the free-agent side of the ledger, here's a name you're going to hear linked to Boston: Eric Hosmer.
In fact, it's already happening. According to FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman, "there is an expectation" the Sox will target Hosmer to fill the void at first base. That's not confirmation from the front office, but it's enough of a rumor to hang our hats on. And it's only early November.
On the surface, Hosmer makes sense for Boston. Scratch deeper, however, and the Red Sox should run away from a Hosmer signing—fast and far.
First, to stipulate: Boston needs an upgrade at first base.
Latest B/R Videos Worth a Watch
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
Mitch Moreland got the bulk of the starts last season and acquitted himself well enough, hitting 22 home runs with a .769 OPS. Moreland is also 32 years old and a free agent himself.
Hanley Ramirez made just 18 starts at first last year and is a designated hitter going forward (provided he can still hit). Rookie Sam Travis is intriguing but not a sure bet. Brock Holt is a versatile utility player, yet he's no one's idea of an everyday first baseman. 
Enter Hosmer, who turned 28 in October and posted career highs in average (.318), hits (192) and OPS (.882), and tied a career high with 25 homers in his contract year with the Kansas City Royals.
That's the profile of a guy any team with a need at the position would covet, right? It depends on the price tag.

The Royals, Heyman reported, could be willing to offer Hosmer a $100 million pact to remain in K.C. It would be a bold move by general manager Dayton Moore to keep a popular franchise figure in town, and Boston should step aside and let him make it.
An unnamed National League executive said he expects Hosmer's agent—the infamous Scott Boras—to seek eight years and $200 million for his client, per Sam Mellinger of the Kansas City Star. 
A nine-figure contract for Hosmer would hamper Boston's ability to upgrade in other areas, including the starting rotation. And it's possible Hosmer's 2017 stat line was more an anomaly and less a harbinger of things to come.
Hosmer was an All-Star in 2016, but he also struck out a career-topping 132 times and posted a respectable but less-robust .761 OPS.
Prior to that, he'd never hit as many as 20 home runs in five full big league seasons. In 2014, even as the Royals won the pennant, he hit just nine.
The Red Sox are looking for thump after hitting the fewest home runs in the American League last season and the 27th fewest in baseball, ahead of only the Atlanta Braves, Pittsburgh Pirates and San Francisco Giants. Hosmer isn't guaranteed to provide it. 
The projection systems aren't bullish. Steamer foretells a .288/.358/.480 slash line with a scant eight home runs, per FanGraphs. Even if you think that's pessimistic—and it is—it shows where the low bar is set.

Hosmer is reportedly a great clubhouse presence and a natural leader. Those intangibles count for something. Maybe he could speed up the timetable of Boston's talented young offensive core. 
"What does he mean to a franchise? Well, he means a lot," Moore said in a recent interview with 610 Sports. "I don't know if you can measure that."
Intangibles don't hit the ball over the fence, however, and they aren't worth crippling the budget.
Instead of throwing gobs of cash at Hosmer, the Red Sox should sign a less-expensive player such as Carlos Santana, who has averaged 24 homers a season over the past seven years, owns a solid .365 career on-base percentage and who posted 10 defensive runs saved at first base for the Cleveland Indians in 2017.
Santana is three-and-a-half years older than Hosmer and will likely command far fewer years and dollars. Other options include Logan Morrison, Yonder Alonso and Lucas Duda, all of whom have pop but wouldn't bust the bank.
The Red Sox are going to make moves this winter. They have to if they want to fend off the ascendant New York Yankees for AL East supremacy.
When it comes to Hosmer, however, Boston should move away.
              
All statistics courtesy of FanGraphs and Baseball-Reference.



The Minnesota Twins confirmed former coach Rick Stelmaszek, 69, died Monday as a result of pancreatic cancer.
According to MLB.com's Rhett Bollinger, Stelmaszek's 32 years on the Twins staff made him the longest-tenured coach in franchise history, and only two other coaches in MLB history spent a longer consecutive stretch with one team.
Former Twins players Kent Hrbek and Jim Kaat recounted their experience with Stelmaszek:
RIP my good friend Stelly. Learned alot from this man. He will be missed by all. Love ya buddy. Get it up......Heaters for 6
@Twins What a gem..Stelly was the epitome of a baseball lifer. Lived and breathed it. Pleasure to have crossed paths with him..
Twins President Dave St. Peter provided a statement to the Star Tribune's Phil Miller:
"He was an absolute character, in every sense, an all-timer. He was a central part of every team he was ever part of. Stelly was a salt-of-the-earth guy, a Chicago guy, a tough guy. He loved the Twins organization, he loved the clubhouse and he loved the camaraderie that came from it. He had a significant impact on so many players, in a way that was uniquely Stelly."
Stelmaszek joined the Twins staff in 1981 and left after the 2012 season. In addition to his role as a bullpen coach, Miller described Stelmaszek as "a tension-breaker, a consensus-builder." Miller also wrote how his interactions with Twins players helped the team get through the mental and physical grind of the MLB season.
During his three-plus decades in Minnesota, Stelmaszek saw the Twins win the World Series in 1987 and 1991 and claim the American League Central title on six occasions between 2002 and 2010.



New York Yankees general manager Brian Cashman pointed to lackluster "connectivity and communication" as the primary reason the team parted ways with manager Joe Girardi.
Andrew Marchand of ESPN.com noted the comments came Monday when Cashman was on a conference call with New York reporters. The general manager suggested the communication issues with the clubhouse were important, considering the Bronx Bombers appear to be in the early stages of a successful run with young players such as Aaron Judge and Gary Sanchez.
Even though he pointed to communication problems with the players, Cashman stressed he had a positive relationship with Girardi and deemed him an "exceptional manager."
The results on the field bore that sentiment out, as Girardi wasted little time finding success when the Yankees hired him before the 2008 season. New York went 89-73 in his first year and then won the World Series in his second, finishing with a 103-59 record.
The 2009 championship started a stretch of four straight postseason appearances.
While the Yankees didn't make the playoffs in 2013, 2014 or 2016, they finished with a winning record in each of Girardi's 10 seasons as manager and came within one victory of the World Series this year. They lost to the eventual champion Houston Astros in Game 7 of the American League Championship Series.
For his part, Girardi appeared on WFAN and said he thought his relationship with the players "was really good," via Marchand.
Marchand noted Cashman doesn't have an official timetable for finding the next manager. Whoever it is will be at the helm of a talented group of youngsters looking to build on 2017's success and bring the Yankees their 28th World Series championship.



The Houston Astros already captured Major League Baseball's ultimate award with their seven-game victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers in the World Series, but baseball fans learned the finalists for the sport's major individual awards Monday evening. 
The finalists for the primary 2017 American and National League awards were announced Monday on MLB Network's broadcast of the Baseball Writers' Association of America awards.
Among the reveals were the three finalists for the American League MVP—New York Yankees outfielder Aaron Judge, Houston Astros second baseman Jose Altuve and Cleveland Indians third baseman Jose Ramirez—and National League MVP—Arizona Diamondbacks first baseman Paul Goldschmidt, Miami Marlins outfielder Giancarlo Stanton and Cincinnati Reds first baseman Joey Votto.
             
American League MVP
New York Yankees outfielder Aaron Judge
Houston Astros second baseman Jose Altuve
Cleveland Indians third baseman Jose Ramirez
Jose Altuve's Houston Astros already beat Aaron Judge's New York Yankees in the American League Championship Series, but the two will have another opportunity to go head-to-head in the AL MVP race.
Altuve is fresh in fans' minds after leading the Astros to the World Series title, but he was dominant in the regular season as well with a .346/.410/.547 slash line to go with 24 home runs, 81 RBI and 32 stolen bases.
Judge was a major headline throughout the season with his 52 home runs and prestigious power, although a post All-Star break slump could prove the difference in the race with Altuve. 
Cleveland Indians third baseman Jose Ramirez may be overshadowed by the other two candidates, but he was the best hitter for the AL's best regular-season team. He slashed .318/.374/.583 with 29 home runs and 83 RBI. The power numbers represented career highs for the AL Central champions.
              
National League MVP
Arizona Diamondbacks first baseman Paul Goldschmidt
Miami Marlins outfielder Giancarlo Stanton
Cincinnati Reds first baseman Joey Votto
While all three American League MVP finalists made the postseason, only Arizona Diamondbacks first baseman Paul Goldschmidt can say the same on the National League side.
Long overshadowed by stars in bigger markets, Goldschmidt turned in another fantastic effort in 2017 with a slash line of .297/.404/.563 to go with 36 home runs and 120 RBI. He also has the team advantage over the other two candidates, as his Diamondbacks won 93 games compared to the 68 for Joey Votto's Cincinnati Reds and the 77 for Giancarlo Stanton's Miami Marlins.
However, it is the home runs and not the wins that stand out for Stanton. He connected on 59 of them this season while also driving in 132 runs in a career effort for the Marlins. His immediate future is still up in the air with trade rumors circulating, per the Miami Herald's Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer, but he turned in one of the best power seasons in recent memory. 
Votto may not jump off the page to the casual fan, but he slashed .320/.454/.578 with 36 home runs, 100 RBI and 134 walks. He also drastically improved his defense, bolstering his total defensive runs saved above average from minus-14 in 2016 to plus-11 this year, per FanGraphs.
              
National League Cy Young
Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Clayton Kershaw
Washington Nationals pitcher Stephen Strasburg
Washington Nationals pitcher Max Scherzer
The National League Cy Young race features baseball royalty with Clayton Kershaw and Max Scherzer.
Kershaw is a three-time Cy Young winner, a seven-time All-Star, a Gold Glove winner and the 2014 NL MVP. Scherzer is a two-time Cy Young winner and five-time All-Star and finished the 2017 campaign with career-best marks of a 2.51 ERA and 0.90 WHIP.
Scherzer isn't the only Nationals hurler on the list, as three-time All-Star Stephen Strasburg helped lead the team to an NL East title with a 2.52 ERA and 1.02 WHIP.
                
American League Cy Young
New York Yankees pitcher Luis Severino
Cleveland Indians pitcher Corey Kluber
Boston Red Sox pitcher Chris Sale
The National League Cy Young race may have the star power of Kershaw and Scherzer, but the American League battle isn't hurting for electrifying stuff.
Boston Red Sox ace Chris Sale wasted little time making an impact on his new team, fanning an astounding 308 hitters in 214.1 innings. He will have his hands full with Cleveland Indians pitcher Corey Kluber, who led the Indians to the AL Central title with a sparkling 0.87 WHIP. 
Meanwhile, Luis Severino anchored New York's pitching staff with a drastic improvement, lowering his ERA from 5.83 in 2016 to 2.98 this year.
             
American League Rookie of the Year
New York Yankees outfielder Aaron Judge
Baltimore Orioles outfielder Trey Mancini
Boston Red Sox outfielder Andrew Benintendi
There may be less drama in the American League Rookie of the Year category than any other, as Yankees slugger Judge figures to run away with the award as not only the clear-cut best rookie but an AL MVP finalist.
Judge slashed .284/.422/.627 with 52 home runs and 114 RBI while helping the Bronx Bombers reach the American League Championship Series.
He was one of the faces of baseball throughout the season, won the Home Run Derby and dominated headlines as arguably New York's brightest star since shortstop Derek Jeter retired following the 2014 campaign.
                
National League Rookie of the Year
Pittsburgh Pirates first baseman Josh Bell
St. Louis Cardinals shortstop Paul DeJong
Los Angeles Dodgers first baseman Cody Bellinger
There likely won't be much drama in the National League Rookie of the Year race either, as Los Angeles Dodgers first baseman Cody Bellinger was one of the best players on the regular season's best team.
Bellinger drilled 39 home runs in his first season for the 104-58 Dodgers, anchoring the lineup that reached the World Series before dropping Game 7 to the Astros. 
If there was one downside to Bellinger's season it was the fact he hit just .219 in the playoffs and went 0-for-8 in the last two games against Houston, but that won't take away from his spectacular regular season.
          
American League Manager of the Year
Cleveland Indians manager Terry Francona
Minnesota Twins manager Paul Molitor
Houston Astros manager A.J. Hinch
The Manager of the Year often goes to someone who leads a team that exceeds expectations, but the Cleveland Indians' Terry Francona and Houston Astros' A.J. Hinch received recognition for spearheading the American League's two best teams in the face of elevated expectations.
Cleveland bounced back from a heartbreaking loss in Game 7 of the 2016 World Series and finished with a 102-60 record, while Houston finished 101-61 and rode its success all the way to a championship.
The Minnesota Twins under manager Paul Molitor fill the role of underdog story, as he led the franchise to its first playoff appearance since the 2010 campaign.
           
National League Manager of the Year
Colorado Rockies manager Bud Black
Arizona Diamondbacks manager Torey Lovullo
Los Angeles Dodgers manager Dave Roberts
The National League West monopolized the NL Manager of the Year race, much like it controlled the playoff race with both wild cards.
Dave Roberts led the Dodgers to the league's best record at 104-58, while Torey Lovullo's Arizona Diamondbacks finished with 93 wins—more than the NL Central champion Chicago Cubs.
Bud Black guided the Colorado Rockies to the postseason at 87-75 for the first time since 2009.



As long as Giancarlo Stanton remains a member of the Miami Marlins, the organization will be the epicenter of any MLB trade rumors.
After all, Stanton is a superstar slugger with an immense contract on a rebuilding team. He's a prime candidate to be moved, and there's enough smoke surrounding his name to suggest a fire is roaring behind closed doors.
His teammate, Christian Yelich, could also be on the move.
According to Derrick Goold of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, the St. Louis Cardinals "believe their best bet for a bat is via trade, and they'll engage in talks with the Marlins about Giancarlo Stanton and Christian Yelich as well as options yet to surface."
As Goold noted, the Cardinals have two major goals for the offseason: adding a slugger and adding a closer.
Both Stanton, 27, and Yelich, 25, could provide the former. Stanton is coming off easily his best season as a pro after hitting .281 with 59 homers and 132 RBI. Yelich didn't come near those numbers—nobody in baseball did either—but he still hit .282 with 18 dingers and 81 RBI.
But Yelich may be more tradable than Stanton given their respective contracts. Consider the following from baseball writer Peter Gammons, who touched on the Stanton situation while touching upon Boston's desire to add a slugger:
"The Red Sox have not reached out to Stanton's agent Joel Wolfe, and they probably understand that not only is Stanton's contract sizeable, he—and no one else—will decide where he goes because of that contract.
"Boston is an unlikely choice (although Stanton's mother is from Ponce), and while the Cardinals have reportedly made one of their best young pitchers available if the Derek Jeter ownership will take back some of the money, there is no comparable pitching in the upper half of the Boston system right now even if in the unlikely event Stanton says he'd go there that they could agree on player compensation.
"Understand: in the last week three different general managers of profitable market teams have said that if Stanton were put on waivers, he would, like Manny Ramirez 12 years ago, go unclaimed. That's complicated."
Complicated, but perhaps not surprising. Stanton is just two years into a 13-year, $325 million contract, per Spotrac.com. While Stanton can opt out of the deal after the 2020 season, why would he? Is another team going to offer him more money than he'll make between 2021-28? Probably not.
Yelich, meanwhile, is due a far more affordable $61.2 million over the next five seasons, with a club option in 2022. That's not only more appealing for other clubs around baseball, along with the fact that Yelich is two years younger than Stanton, it's also more appealing to Miami.
And in late October, Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald reported that the Marlins hoped to trade Stanton, second baseman Dee Gordon and third baseman Martin Prado to trim budget, all in the hopes of cutting the payroll to $90 million. 
Per that report, meanwhile, the team would prefer to hold onto Yelich, Marcell Ozuna, J.T. Realmuto, Justin Bour and Dan Straily.
It's a new era in Miami under Jeter and his ownership group, and the Opening Day roster in 2018 could look drastically different. It continues to appear as though Stanton will be donning a new uniform come March. Yelich, on the other hand, seems more likely to stay.
Even he could be on the chopping block in the race to lower payroll, however. 



Los Angeles Dodgers outfielder Yasiel Puig did not seem too disturbed by the home burglary that took place last week.
"I have too much f--king money in my life," Puig told TMZ Sports. "I ain't worried about that s--t. I have a f--king lot of money."
TMZ posted the NSFW video on YouTube:
Puig's Los Angeles home was burglarized last week, with an unknown man coming away with $150 in costume jewelry. He was previously robbed of about $500,000 in March.
The Dodgers outfielder signed a seven-year, $42 million contract in 2012. The deal runs through the 2018 season, and he's collected $34.5 million so far. With arbitration coming next winter and unrestricted free agency the following year, Puig is in all likelihood looking at nine figures in salary coming his way in the not-too-distant future.
Puig might have just provided us with the best bank account flexing since "straight cash homie."



The 2017 MLB season came to a thrilling conclusion on Wednesday, with the Houston Astros beating the Los Angeles Dodgers in a seven-game World Series that featured a couple of classic games that won't soon be forgotten.
With the season's champion settled, the MLB's last order of business for the 2017 campaign is revealing the major end-of-season award winners. Per MLB.com, the Gold Glovers, Silver Sluggers and many more of the most deserving players will get their recognition over the next several days.
On November 16, the league's MVPs will be revealed, and it will likely show the voters had some tough choices to make. The latest odds, according to OddsShark, are from August 31. They showed the Miami Marlins' Giancarlo Stanton with the best chances in the National League and the Astros' Jose Altuve pacing the American League. That was with a full month left in the regular season, so the resumes were far from finalized.
Let's run down the top contenders for both leagues, with odds based on personal estimations on which player is most likely to win the MVP in each league.
           
AL MVP
Jose Altuve, 2B, Houston Astros: 3-2
Aaron Judge, OF, New York Yankees: 11-6
Mike Trout, OF, Los Angeles Angels: 50-1
Jose Ramirez, 2B/3B, Cleveland Indians: 75-1
When it comes to Altuve and Aaron Judge, these odds can be flipped, shaved down or adjusted about any way you like so long as they end up as pretty much a dead heat.
Altuve proved to be an all-around force in helping lead Houston to the second-best record in the majors and eventually a World Series title. His .346/.410/.547 slash line demonstrates his status as one of the toughest outs in the league, and he packed plenty of punch to go along with his controlled bat work. Altuve smacked 24 home runs and 81 RBI and was a menace on the base path, with 32 steals.
Judge's power numbers (52 home runs, 114 RBI, .627 slugging percentage) dwarf those of Altuve, but he did strike out an astounding 208 times. That said, his 127 walks alleviated those potential on-base woes, as he ended up with a higher on-base percentage (.422) than Altuve. Judge's numbers are also made all the more impressive by the fact he accomplished them as a rookie. His 52 home runs represent an MLB rookie record.
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
The advanced stats don't do much to separate either of these two franchise cornerstones, per The Ringer's Michael Baumann:
"Baseball-Reference has Altuve rated better by about half a win, Baseball Prospectus likes Judge by about half a win, and FanGraphs has the two about the same. Given two players of similar value, I'll take the up-the-middle guy, but given how flashy his first half was and the fact that he plays in New York, it wouldn't shock me if Judge became the third rookie, after Fred Lynn and Ichiro, to win the AL MVP award."
It's a razor-thin margin between these two, but what may eventually separate Altuve is the value he provided at second base. An accomplished fielder, his numbers are especially valuable for a player busy vacuuming up grounders and turning double plays. Judge plays a slick right field, but power numbers are to be expected from a giant corner outfielder.

Judge's status as a rookie could also hurt him. Some voters may feel that in a race this close, it's better to give it to the veteran Altuve before his time in the spotlight runs out. Judge, just 25 and playing in the spotlight of New York City, will likely contend for MVP for years to come. If he doesn't get it this year, there could well be a season when he makes it impossible to vote against him.
Two-time MVP Mike Trout may get a couple of votes in a distant third, but he played just 114 games in 2017. He led the AL in OBP (.442) and slugging (.629), but his raw numbers (33 home runs, 72 RBI and 123 hits) just don't stack up this year.
Jose Ramirez (29 home runs, 83 RBI and a whopping 56 doubles) was a key part of the Cleveland Indians' remarkable winning streak toward the end of the season, but he will likely split accolades with teammates Francisco Lindor and Corey Kluber. 
           
NL MVP
Giancarlo Stanton, OF, Miami Marlins: 3-1
Paul Goldschmidt, 1B, Arizona Diamondbacks: 4-1
Joey Votto, 1B, Cincinnati Reds: 6-1
Nolan Arenado 3B, Colorado Rockies: 25-1

While the American League MVP race is shaping up to be a showdown between Altuve and Judge, the National League voting stands to be a bit more egalitarian.
Paul Goldschmidt did it all playing first base for the Arizona Diamondbacks this year, hitting 36 home runs and driving in 120 RBI while stealing 18 bases and posting a .563 slugging percentage. He also rated highly in the defensive aspects of the game.
While Goldschmidt's credentials are excellent, the New York Times' Tyler Kepner believes Cincinnati Reds star Joey Votto (36 home runs, 100 RBI) deserves the award ahead of him:"As tempting as it is then to endorse Arizona's Paul Goldschmidt, another first baseman, Cincinnati's Joey Votto, stands above the rest. Votto and Goldschmidt have both topped .300 in average, .400 in on-base percentage and .500 in slugging percentage — but Votto was higher in all three, while playing more games and reaching base about 50 more times. Goldschmidt runs better, but both rank among the best fielders at first."
Goldschmidt actually finished a shade under .300, with a .297 average, but the point still stands. What may work in his favor this year is the Diamondbacks' success as a team.
He helped push the D-backs to the National League Division Series, while the likes of Votto's Reds and Stanton's Miami Marlins came nowhere near the postseason. The MVP is an individual award, but the aura of a winning team may tip a few voters in Goldschmidt's favor.

But there's still the case of Stanton's staggering output. His mammoth power numbers make for a pretty convincing argument, especially hitting in the Marlins' pitcher-friendly stadium.
Stanton smacked 59 home runs and drove in 132 RBI. His .631 slugging percentage easily led the National League, and he's already garnered recognition for his offensive output with the 2017 Hank Aaron Award, given to the league's most outstanding offensive players and determined by a panel vote, per the Sun-Sentinel's Tim Healey.
It will be hard to argue with any of these three players for NL MVP, and cases could also be made for the Colorado Rockies' Nolan Arenado or Charlie Blackmon. Stanton's power numbers are hard to fathom and harder to duplicate. Since he's not facing a fantastic middle infielder for MVP consideration like Judge is, Stanton stands to be the towering power hitter who brings home some coveted hardware.



The 2017-18 MLB free-agent class is one of the weaker groups in recent years, but we'll still see plenty of impact talent on the move this offseason.
As always, some positions are stronger than others.
It's a good year to be in the market for corner infield help, but if you're looking for a middle infielder it's slim pickings.
Keeping with that theme, what follows is a position-by-position breakdown of the upcoming free-agent class with each position ranked from thinnest to deepest.
Players were broken into four tiers to better illustrate the overall talent level at each position:
Demand also played a part in the rankings. In other words, there are more viable starting pitching options available than potential everyday catchers, but there's also a far greater demand for rotation arms that likely won't be filled.
At any rate, this was simply meant to be a different way to look at this year's free-agent crop.

Top Second Basemen
Tier 4: Dustin Ackley, Darwin Barney, Stephen Drew, Danny Espinosa, Johnny Giavotella, Phil Gosselin
     
Position Overview
With Brandon Phillips (36) and Chase Utley (38) both coming down the homestretch of their respective careers, there's only one everyday second base option on this year's free-agent market in Neil Walker.
Since becoming a starter in 2010, Walker has a 114 OPS+ and he's checked in as an above-average offensive player in each of those eight seasons.
The 32-year-old finished the 2017 season strong, posting an .843 OPS with 12 extra-base hits and 13 RBI in 38 games after being traded to the Milwaukee Brewers.
He won't match the $17.2 million annual salary that came with accepting a qualifying offer last winter, but a multiyear deal seems like a safe bet and a reunion with the Brewers might be the best fit.

Top Shortstops
Tier 4: Erick Aybar, Andres Blanco, Paul Janish, Cliff Pennington, Adam Rosales, Josh Rutledge, Ruben Tejada
     
Position Overview
It's a good thing the list of teams looking for a starting shortstop is relatively short.
Zack Cozart has always been a standout defender and he's coming off a career year offensively in which he hit .297/.385/.548 with 24 doubles, 24 home runs and 63 RBI.
The Reds are "leaning against" extending him a $17.4 million qualifying offer, according to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, and that would obviously help his case on the open market.
He's really the only viable starting option at the position.
Alcides Escobar and J.J. Hardy were both everyday players at the start of the 2017 season and have been for the past several seasons, but they were black holes offensively.
Among the 318 players with at least 250 plate appearances, Escobar (65 OPS+, 301st) and Hardy (55 OPS+, 313th) were two of the least productive and their glove work no longer justifies an everyday gig.

Top Starting Pitchers
Tier 3: Bartolo Colon, R.A. Dickey, Scott Feldman, Doug Fister, Miguel Gonzalez, Jeremy Hellickson, Hisashi Iwakuma, John Lackey, Wade Miley, Miles Mikolas, Chris Tillman, Jason Vargas
Tier 4: Henderson Alvarez, Brett Anderson, Clay Buchholz, Trevor Cahill, Jesse Chavez, Yovani Gallardo, Matt Garza, Dillon Gee, Derek Holland, Edwin Jackson, Ubaldo Jimenez, Kyle Kendrick, Tommy Milone, Ricky Nolasco, Wily Peralta, Michael Pineda, Tyson Ross, Anibal Sanchez, Hector Santiago
     
Position Overview
This year's starting pitching market is as thin as any in recent memory.
Jake Arrieta gets the nod over Yu Darvish for the top spot thanks in large part to his comparatively fresh arm.
Both pitchers are 31 years old, yet Darvish (2,127.2 IP) has over 450 more professional innings on his arm than Arrieta (1,669.0 IP) dating back to his time in Japan. So while Darvish might be the better pitcher right now, Arrieta looks like a safer bet to perform at a high level over the life of what is likely to be a five-year deal.
After those two, the drop-off is steep.
Alex Cobb and Lance Lynn are both capable of being strong No. 3 starters on a contending team, while 37-year-old CC Sabathia proved he still has something left to offer with a terrific regular season that was followed by a strong postseason.
Tyler Chatwood and Andrew Cashner are wild cards with some upside, Jaime Garcia is the best bet to get a multiyear deal among left-handers and Jhoulys Chacin (180.1 IP, 3.89 ERA, 4.26 FIP) was quietly effective on a one-year, $1.75 million deal with the San Diego Padres.
Beyond those nine guys, it's a crapshoot of underperforming veterans, players returning from injury and organizational depth.
Keep an eye on Miles Mikolas. He went 31-13 with a 2.18 ERA and 0.99 WHIP in 62 starts over the past three seasons pitching for the Yomiuri Giants in the Japanese League. After a forgettable first go-around in MLB with the Padres and Rangers, he's ready to make his way back stateside.

Top Catchers
Tier 4: Hank Conger, Ryan Hanigan, Erik Kratz, Francisco Pena, Anthony Recker, Geovany Soto, Jarrod Saltalamacchia, Josh Thole, Bobby Wilson
     
Position Overview
Thanks to his strong receiving skills and impressive overall track record, Jonathan Lucroy still looks like the best catcher on the market and a good bet for a multiyear deal even after a disappointing offensive season.
A strong finish following his trade to the Colorado Rockies should help, as he hit .310/.429/.437 with 11 extra-base hits and a 115 OPS+ in 46 games.
Meanwhile, Alex Avila (119 OPS+, 14 HR) and Chris Iannetta (114 OPS+, 17 HR) both enjoyed terrific offensive seasons and played a key role on postseason teams. They know how to handle a staff and are worthy of at least a part-time role.
Rene Rivera (92 OPS+, 10 HR) leads a long list of veteran backup options that also includes former All-Stars Carlos Ruiz and Miguel Montero.
Welington Castillo (115 OPS+, 20 HR, 49% CS) could join this group as well if he decides to decline a $7 million player option. He would slot right behind Lucroy in the positional rankings.

Top Corner Outfielders
Tier 4: Gregor Blanco, Alejandro De Aza, Andre Ethier, Craig Gentry, Chris Heisey, Hyun Soo Kim, Mike Morse, Daniel Nava, Ryan Raburn, Colby Rasmus, Ben Revere, Travis Snider, Melvin Upton Jr., Jayson Werth, Chris Young
     
Position Overview
J.D. Martinez is the best bat on this year's free-agent market after a monster 2017 season.
The 30-year-old had a 1.107 OPS with 29 home runs and 65 RBI in 62 games with the Diamondbacks, and all told, he finished with a 1.066 OPS and a career-high 45 long balls.
He's dealt with some injuries in his career, but a $100 million-plus deal should be forthcoming.
While Jay Bruce is more of a one-dimensional power threat, he's a strong candidate for a three-year deal after slugging 36 homers with 101 RBI and a 115 OPS+.
Curtis Granderson has a 113 OPS+ and 102 home runs over the past four seasons and he's still capable of playing center field, which adds to his value. The 36-year-old might need to take a pay cut after landing a four-year, $60 million deal last time he reached free agency.
Howie Kendrick was a second baseman for most of his career, but he's moved into more of a utility role. He hit .315/.368/.475 over 334 plate appearances with the Phillies and Nationals while seeing the bulk of his action in left field, and his versatility should make him a hot commodity.
Sluggers Carlos Gonzalez (87 OPS+, .262 BA, 14 HR) and Jose Bautista (76 OPS+, .203 BA, 23 HR) might have to settle for incentive-laden one-year deals as they look to bounce back from poor seasons, while Nori Aoki, Seth Smith and Melky Cabrera should at least be able to catch on as fourth outfielders.
The rest of the outfield market is likely looking at minor league pacts.

Top Center Fielders
Tier 4: Emilio Bonifacio, Peter Bourjos, Franklin Gutierrez, Kirk Nieuwenhuis, Shane Robinson, Drew Stubbs, Eric Young Jr.
     
Position Overview
As a 31-year-old who relies on speed and center field defense as the driving force behind his overall value, signing Lorenzo Cain to a long-term deal comes with some clear risk.
However, for a contender in need of an upgrade at the position, he could be the missing piece.
After a disappointing 2016 season, Cain rebounded to hit .300/.363/.440 with 15 home runs and 26 stolen bases in 28 attempts for the third 5-WAR season of his career.
Teams that miss out on signing him will have a handful of fallback options to choose from.
Carlos Gomez was limited to 105 games, but he proved his offensive resurgence was for real by posting an .802 OPS with 23 doubles and 17 home runs in 426 plate appearances.
And it was more of the same from Jarrod Dyson who topped 25 stolen bases for the sixth straight season while again playing terrific defense (15 DRS, 11.0 UZR/150).
Jon Jay provided a strong batting average (.296) and on-base percentage (.374) as a platoon player with the Cubs, and Austin Jackson (318 PA, 126 OPS+) turned a minor league deal into a semi-regular role with the Indians.
Speedsters Cameron Maybin (33 SB) and Rajai Davis (29 SB) should be able to find jobs as stolen bases grow increasingly harder to find.

Top Third Basemen
Tier 4: Mike Aviles, Ryan Flaherty, Ty Kelly, Will Middlebrooks, Jhonny Peralta, Trevor Plouffe, Jose Reyes, Pablo Sandoval
     
Position Overview
Mike Moustakas picked the perfect time for the best offensive season of his career as he set a Kansas City Royals franchise record with 38 home runs.
The 29-year-old has his shortcomings with a relatively low walk rate (5.7 percent) and on-base percentage (.314) and below-average defensive metrics (minus-8 DRS, minus-3.6 UZR/150), but his age and power make him a top-tier option.
While Todd Frazier has seen his batting average plummet to .220 over the past two seasons, he still has a 106 OPS+ during that span. He's a standout defender with 30-homer power and looks like one of the best buy-low candidates on this year's market.
The versatile Eduardo Nunez proved his 2016 breakout was the real deal, hitting .313/.341/.460 with 33 doubles, 12 home runs and 24 stolen bases while playing all over the diamond. A super utility role might suit him best, but he's seen the most action at the hot corner the past two seasons so he's included here.
Yunel Escobar is a .300 hitter over the past three seasons, and guys like Trevor Plouffe, Ryan Flaherty, Jhonny Peralta and Jose Reyes could all turn minor league contracts into bench roles.

Top Relief Pitchers
Tier 3: Fernando Abad, Matt Albers, Matt Belisle, Joaquin Benoit, Tyler Clippard, Brian Duensing, Luke Gregerson, David Hernandez, Seung Hwan Oh, Oliver Perez, Yusmeiro Petit, Fernando Rodney, Sergio Romo, Craig Stammen
Tier 4: John Axford, Andrew Bailey, Craig Breslow, Jorge De La Rosa, Neftali Feliz, Jeanmar Gomez, Jason Grilli, Wade LeBlanc, Mark Lowe, Jordan Lyles, Dustin McGowan, Jason Motte, Bud Norris, Eric O'Flaherty, Logan Ondrusek, Glen Perkins, Chad Qualls, Francisco Rodriguez, Fernando Salas, Drew Storen, Koji Uehara, Tom Wilhelmsen
     
Position Overview
Wade Davis is the only lockdown closer option on this year's free-agent market, but it's a deep overall crop of bullpen arms.
Greg Holland ran out of gas down the stretch with a 7.58 ERA over the final two months, but he still saved 41 games in 45 chances with a 3.61 ERA, 1.15 WHIP and 11.0 K/9 in his return from Tommy John surgery.
Standout setup man Addison Reed could also get a chance to close again, and a lucrative four-year deal likely awaits him this winter even if he continues pitching in the eighth inning.
Former starters Mike Minor (65 G, 2.55 ERA, 10.2 K/9), Brandon Morrow (45 G, 2.06 ERA, 10.3 K/9) and Juan Nicasio (76 G, 2.61 ERA, 9.0 K/9) all thrived in their first full seasons pitching out of the bullpen, and they'll cash in as a result, while Anthony Swarzak (70 G, 2.33 ERA, 10.6 K/9) was among the biggest surprises of 2017.
All-Star Pat Neshek and workhorse Bryan Shaw could find three-year deals, while second-tier closer candidates Brandon Kintzler and Steve Cishek, lefties Jake McGee and Tony Watson and steady middle relievers Tommy Hunter and Joe Smith should all get at least two years.
There are plenty of guys in the Tier 3 group that could also wind up signing multiyear deals, including Tyler Clippard, Matt Albers and Brian Duensing.

Top First Basemen
Tier 4: Pedro Alvarez, Chris Carter, Ji-Man Choi, Allen Craig, Ike Davis, Ryan Howard, John Jaso, James Loney, Tyler Moore
     
Position Overview
It already looked like a strong market for first basemen heading into the season with Eric Hosmer and Carlos Santana both set to reach free agency for the first time.
Those two remain the elite options at the position, but a handful of breakout seasons have made first base the deepest position in the 2017-18 class.
Logan Morrison (135 OPS+, 38 HR) headlines that group and he'll soar past the one-year, $2.5 million deal he signed to rejoin the Tampa Bay Rays last offseason. MLBTradeRumors predicted a three-year, $36 million contract and noted that a four-year deal is not out of the question.
An even more surprising offensive breakout came from Yonder Alonso (133 OPS+, 28 HR) who looked like a legitimate non-tender candidate at this time a year ago. A second-half swoon could limit his market to two-year deals, but he's still a viable everyday option.
Mitch Moreland (99 OPS+, 22 HR, 10 DRS) more than earned his one-year, $5.5 million deal with the Red Sox, and the same goes for Mark Reynolds (105 OPS+, 30 HR) and his one-year, $1.5 million pact with the Rockies.
Adam Lind and Mike Napoli are limited to being power bats off the bench at this point in their respective careers, while Danny Valencia crushes left-handed pitching (.804 OPS, 12 XBH) and brings some defensive versatility with the ability to play third base and corner outfield.
     
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.



Following a 2017 season in which much went wrong, the Chicago Cubs have a lot to figure out this winter.
It also isn't too early to hammer out a plan for reuniting Bryce Harper and Kris Bryant.
As he has been for all six of his major league seasons, Harper will be under the employ of the Washington Nationals in 2018. The Nationals locked him in for $21.65 million, a new record for an arbitration-eligible player, in May.
Latest B/R Videos Worth a Watch
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
That deal did nothing to delay Harper's free agency, however. He's still ticketed to hit the open market after 2018, which would set off the hottest free-agent sweepstakes in Major League Baseball history.
Harper, 25, is roughly three years younger than fellow superstar right fielder Giancarlo Stanton, who's the holder of the biggest contract in sports history at 13 years and $325 million. The Washington man's career averages include a .902 OPS, 25 home runs and 4.4 wins above replacement per season. He was named MVP in 2015 and might be the favorite for another this year had he not missed 41 games with a knee injury.
All Harper must do in 2018 is stay healthy—which, given his track record, will be the hard part—and otherwise be himself. If he does, he and superagent Scott Boras will have a shot at realizing the oft-mentioned hypothetical contract worth $400 million or even $500 million.
The Cubs are a reasonable entry in a not-so-long list of possible suitors for Harper. And according to internet gossip, any interest would be mutual.

As Tony Andracki covered at NBC Sports, Harper has teased a move to Chicago by openly flaunting his appreciation for Chicago sports teams and for the home of the Cubs themselves. Notably, he has a dog named "Wrigley."
Then there's his relationship with Bryant.
The two former MVPs are just a year apart in age and, once upon a time, played as teammates and opponents during their youth baseball days in Las Vegas. They and their wives are good friends, and both parties have cranked the rumor mill with Instagram hashtags like #HarpertotheCubs and #Back2BackOneDay.
All this could be mere trolling largely perpetrated by a troll king.
"I do that to the media because they stir it more than I do," Harper said in July, per Barry Svrluga of the Washington Post. "That's why I do the things I do at times, because it's funny to me. It's like, 'All right, people want to talk about this and talk about that. Why not just throw this out there and make them think about it?'"
But even that quote might be an attempt to mislead. Legendary baseball reporter Peter Gammons has heard Harper's preference is indeed to end up in Chicago. So has FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman, who wrote on October 26: "There continue to be whispers that Bryce Harper could eventually wind up with the Cubs."
Chicago is far from finished with a contention window that, just over the past three years, has produced 292 regular-season wins, two NL Central titles and a long-awaited World Series championship in 2016. It also has pockets deep enough for two straight $170-plus million payrolls.
They are a natural fit for Harper to those extents, but they don't stack up as well in future financial flexibility. As seen here, they place toward the high end of the spectrum for 2019 payroll commitments:
This is assuming Jason Heyward declines to opt out of the five years and $106 million remaining on his deal after 2018. And not pictured are the other expenses the Cubs will have after 2018.
They are all but certain to pick up the 2019 options for Jose Quintana ($10.5 million) and Pedro Strop ($6.25 million). And with Bryant, Kyle Hendricks, Addison Russell, Javier Baez and Kyle Schwarber slated for arbitration, Chicago's arbitration payouts for 2019 should eclipse even Cot's Baseball Contracts' projection of $35.5 million for 2018.
That doesn't leave much room for a $30 million to $40 million-per-year player. There would be even less if the Cubs break the bank to patch more immediate needs this winter.
They need starting pitchers to occupy the slots left open by Jake Arrieta's and John Lackey's free agency. They must also address a bullpen that was weak even with ace closer Wade Davis, who's also a free agent.
A reunion with Davis is doable, but it will cost the Cubs quite a bit more to either reunite with Arrieta or to fill his shoes will fellow free-agent ace Yu Darvish. A wiser play would be to go to the trade market. In Russell, Baez, Schwarber and Happ, the Cubs have pieces to pursue a deal for top-flight starters—such as Chris Archer or Michael Fulmer.
The Cubs could also score a relatively cheap coup by landing Japanese flamethrower/slugger Shohei Otani. But as Joel Sherman of the New York Post reported, uncertainty over MLB's posting system has created doubts as to whether Otani will be available this winter.
But if not, oh well.
Some affordable options for Chicago's rotation include Alex Cobb, Andrew Cashner, Jaime Garcia, Jason Vargas and Jeremy Hellickson, each of whom is a pitch-to-contact type who could thrive in front of the excellent Cubs defense. Fits on the relief front include Brandon Morrow, Jake McGee, Pat Neshek, Anthony Swarzak, Steve Cishek and Brandon Kintzler.
All told, the Cubs have plenty of options to make necessary improvements for 2018 while also keeping the door open for Harper to join up for 2019 and beyond. And while they would have competition in that arena, a couple things could have the fortunate effect of lightening it.
For one, it's likely Stanton will soon be traded to a team that might otherwise have Harper in its sights. The list includes the Los Angeles Dodgers, San Francisco Giants and Philadelphia Phillies.
For two, the long-since-cemented assumption the New York Yankees will go all out for Harper doesn't hold as much water anymore. In Aaron Judge, they have an elite right fielder who might soon be Harper's equal in MVPs and who might already be his equal in marketability.
So even if it's not quite a straight path, there is a route for Harper to join Bryant on the North Side of Chicago. If the Cubs can avoid blocking it or altering it, they would stand to eventually benefit from it.
                
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference. Payroll and contract data courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.




We're still a few weeks away from the annual Black Friday madness, but it's not too early to talk about bargains.
MLB bargains, that is—impending free agents with the stats and talent to indicate high-impact potential, but with enough perceived warts or market vulnerabilities to be had for fewer years and dollars than they might deserve.
These aren't the huge-ticket stars sure to command top dollar, nor are they scrubs scratching for spring training invites.
Rather, the list features a couple of high-upside NL West right-handers, a pair of power-hitting first basemen, a recently elite catcher, a fallen superstar right fielder who surged late in 2017, and a top-tier middle infielder who may get lost amid the ongoing shortstop revolution.

The 3.89 ERA and 4.26 FIP Jhoulys Chacin posted in 2017 don't scream "elite." The fact that he toiled for the lowly San Diego Padres doesn't boost his profile.
Yet, among prospective free-agent starting pitchers, Chacin posted the third-lowest hard-contact rate at 28.5 percent, better than Jake Arrieta (29.4) or Yu Darvish (33.1).
That's not to suggest Chacin is a better pitcher than either of those aces. But while Arrieta and Darvish will command long-term commitments in excess of $100 million, Chacin could probably be had on a short pact for manageable dollars while profiling as a solid mid-rotation arm.

Maybe it's because his Google search results are buried by his famous musician namesake, but Carlos Santana seems to be perpetually underrated.
Sure, he's a plodding slugger in an era when that skill set isn't as valued. But he augments his pop with a robust .365 career on-base percentage, and he's quietly turned himself into a competent first baseman who posted 10 defensive runs saved at the position for the Cleveland Indians last season.
Eric Hosmer (4.1 fWAR in 2017) will be viewed as the prize of the first base market, and the 28-year-old could get a contract in excess of $100 million. Santana (3.0 fWAR) will likely land a multiyear deal, but the 31-year-old should come at a considerably lower price tag.

Sticking at first base, Logan Morrison is another under-the-radar candidate who brought significant value in 2017.
The 30-year-old posted career highs in home runs (38) and OPS (.868) while posting 3.3 fWAR.
Like Santana, that should be enough to get him a multiyear deal worth far more annually than the $2.5 million the Tampa Bay Rays paid him last season.
His .245 career average and journeyman reputation will balance his breakout, however, and should keep his price in the middle range. 
If the 666th overall pick in the 2005 draft can come close to replicating his 2017 output, the middle range would be a major bargain.

The first of two Colorado Rockies on this list who are likely to sign short-term contracts, Jonathan Lucroy represents an intriguing gamble at a premium position.
Lucroy was an All-Star catcher as recently as 2016 and finished fourth in National League MVP voting in 2014. 
Last season, his stock plummeted, as he posted an anemic .667 OPS before the All-Star break with the Texas Rangers. 
His numbers rebounded after a trade deadline swap to the Colorado Rockies, slashing .276/.395/.381 in the second half.
Prospective buyers will note that part of Lucroy's rebound happened in the thin air of Coors Field and that the 31-year-old went from being one of the game's elite receivers to the sixth-worst pitch-framer in baseball, per StatCorner. 
Lucroy's days as an MVP contender and WAR darling are likely over. His second-half rebound provides some hope that he can again be an above-average offensive catcher. He was 16th in pitch-framing among 114 rated catchers in 2016, per StatCorner. His 2017 free fall in that department may have been a blip.
On a one-year deal at "show me" prices? He's worth a roll of the dice.

The other Rockies player on our radar, Carlos Gonzalez essentially flunked his contract year.
The three-time All-Star and three-time Gold Glove winner posted full-season career lows in average (.262) and OPS (.762) and put up minus-three defensive runs saved in right field.
That's the bad news.
The good news is that Gonzalez rebounded to post a .921 OPS in the second half and hit .377 with six home runs in September.
He didn't get a chance to prove himself in a deep postseason, as the Rockies were bounced in the NL Wild Card Game. Still, it was a nice turnaround for a once-elite hitter. 
Critics will note that the 32-year-old Gonzalez hit .203 with a .606 OPS away from Coors. Hence the reason he should sign elsewhere on a one-year "show me" deal and, like Lucroy, seek to rebuild his value.
And hence the reason a team looking for a reclamation project with pedigree and upside should pounce. 

It'll be interesting to see if the Cincinnati Reds extend Zack Cozart a qualifying offer, and if they do, whether or not he accepts. 
At first glance, the notion of Cozart settling for a one-year deal seems absurd. 
The 32-year-old posted a .933 OPS with 24 home runs and was third among shortstops with 5.0 fWAR, second only to the Indians' Francisco Lindor (5.9 fWAR) and Los Angeles Dodgers' Corey Seager (5.7 fWAR). By all rights, teams should be backing up a Brink's truck.
This is the golden era of the shortstop, however, and most top-spending and top-contending teams are set at the position. In a world that features Lindor, Seager, Carlos Correa, Trea Turner, Brandon Crawford et al, the demand for shortstops isn't high enough to incite a bidding war.
That said, Cozart's bat and glove would be a boon to any club, and if he refuses the qualifying offer and can be had for below market rate, someone will happily ante up.

Tyler Chatwood owns a 4.31 ERA in six MLB seasons. He's undergone two Tommy John surgeries. He's got "risk" scribbled all over him.
There's ample reward in the 27-year-old right-hander as well.
Chatwood posted a 3.12 ERA in September and a 3.49 mark away from Coors. He also led all prospective free-agent starters with an average fastball velocity of 94.6 and a ground-ball rate of 57.2 percent. 
He was demoted to the bullpen at one point but fought his way back into the rotation.
"He came back with a mindset of, 'I'm not going to beat myself. I'm gonna go after people and trust my stuff in the hitting area,'" Colorado manager Bud Black said in mid-September, per Nick Groke of the Denver Post. 
The injury history and uneven results will cost Chatwood a big payday. The stuff and potential to front a rotation, especially outside the Mile High air, make him a bargain arm to watch.
       
All statistics courtesy of FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.



Yu Darvish is an ace. Someone is going to pay him accordingly. Let's get that out of the way.
In fact, Darvish and Jake Arrieta might be the only true aces on an otherwise muddled starting pitching market. Normally, that equals a straight line to a massive nine-figure contract.
There's a blemish on Darvish's resume, however, and it could impact his worth this winter as he tests free agency. We're speaking about his back-to-back dreadful World Series starts, which linger in the collective consciousness like dry champagne on the walls of the visitors' clubhouse at Dodger Stadium. 
Fair or not, the last image we all got of Darvish was of the right-hander failing spectacularly on the biggest stage after the Los Angeles Dodgers rented him for just such an occasion.
A quick recap: After coming to the Dodgers from the Texas Rangers in a trade-deadline swap for a package highlighted by power-hitting prospect Willie Calhoun, Darvish posted a 3.44 ERA in nine regular-season starts along with an impressive 11.1 strikeouts per nine innings.
He wasn't expected to be the club's No. 1 heading into the postseason; that title belonged to Clayton Kershaw. With lefty Rich Hill also on hand, all Darvish needed to do was be a solid supporting player.

He struck out seven and allowed one run in five innings in his division series start against the Arizona Diamondbacks. He followed that up with 6.1 innings of seven-strikeout, one-run ball against the Chicago Cubs in the National League Championship Series. The Dodgers won both games. 
Then the Fall Classic rolled around, and Darvish wilted like an autumn leaf under the glaring lights.
In his first start, in Game 3 at Minute Maid Park last Friday, he lasted a scant 1.2 innings against the Houston Astros and yielded six hits and four runs. The Dodgers lost, 5-3.
He got a crack at redemption in Game 7 on Wednesday, but this time surrendered five runs (four earned) in 1.2 frames as L.A. fell, 5-1.
Manager Dave Roberts gave Darvish as much rope as he could in the deciding contest and allowed him to face eventual World Series MVP George Springer with a runner on base in the second inning. Here was the result, in case you have short-term memory issues:
With that, Darvish's World Series ERA ballooned to 21.60. That's over the legal U.S. drinking age, which is fitting for the SoCal faithful.
Darvish has plenty going for him. Since crossing the Pacific from Japan in 2012, he's made four All-Star appearances, finished among the top 10 in Cy Young Award balloting twice and averaged 11 strikeouts per nine.
He's also 31 years old and missed the 2015 season after undergoing Tommy John surgery, so there's risk as well as upside.
Nonetheless, it seemed a foregone conclusion Darvish would command a Fort Knox payday. Now, his World Series faceplant may move the money needle southward.
He won't be forced to settle for a scrub's salary. After he and Arrieta, the free-agent cupboard is stocked with second-tier options such as Lance Lynn, Andrew Cashner and Tyler Chatwood.
New York Yankees right-hander Masahiro Tanaka can opt out of his contract—as I argued he should—which would add another ace to the mix.
Regardless, Darvish will draw ample interest. MLB Trade Rumors posited a six-year, $160 million deal from the Cubs. Even if it's not the Cubbies who cut the check, that sounds about right, if a tad high.
A great World Series showing that guided the Dodgers to their first title since 1988 could have pushed Darvish even higher. Maybe he could have joined the rarefied $200 million club (four of those 10 are starting pitchers, according to Spotrac).
As MLBTR's Tim Dierkes wrote in making his salary projection, "Darvish recorded a mere 10 outs in his two brutal World Series starts for the Dodgers. With those ugly outings fresh in our minds, projecting him to receive the winter's largest contract creates cognitive dissonance."

No one will weep for Darvish, least of all grieving Dodgers fans. Missing out on a few million dollars—or even tens of millions—when you're going to get filthy rich regardless isn't cause for public mourning. 
This was a missed opportunity for one of the game's top hurlers, however—there are no two ways about it. 
"I had bad days and that means somebody else had a great day," Darvish said after Game 7, per David Waldstein of the New York Times. "I try to think of it that way, and sometimes it works. Maybe this time it didn't work because I let my teammates down."
As crass as it sounds, he probably let his agent and accountants down, too.
               
All statistics courtesy of Baseball Reference.



TMZ Sports obtained a recording of the 911 call made by the delivery driver during an incident with Oakland Athletics catcher Bruce Maxwell.
The driver told the emergency operator she was calling from the parking lot of Maxwell's apartment complex. She said Maxwell had pulled a gun on her and that she wasn't sure whether that was illegal since it happened at his residence.
Police arrived at the scene and arrested Maxwell and charged him with aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, according to Seth Pines of ABC15 in Phoenix.
In the police report, officers said Maxwell had a "strong odor of intoxicating liquor emanated from his breath."
The court document acquired by ABC15 stated Maxwell initially admitted to taking his gun out of its holster before retracting that statement. He also said he didn't point the gun at the delivery driver.
Maxwell told officers he had canceled his order through Postmates. The restaurant from which he ordered the food found an order for "Bruce M." and determined it hadn't been canceled.
The Athletics released a statement a day after Maxwell's arrest: "We were disappointed to learn of the allegations. We take this situation and ongoing investigation seriously. We are gathering information from the proper authorities and do not have further comment at this time."
Maxwell appeared in 76 games for Oakland in his second season in MLB. He became the first MLB player to kneel during the anthem when he did so ahead of the Athletics' 1-0 win over the Texas Rangers on Sept. 23.



New Washington Nationals manager Dave Martinez has high expectations for the upcoming season.
"We're not here just to win a playoff game," he said Thursday at his introductory press conference, per Eddie Matz of ESPN.com. "We're here to win the World Series."
The 53-year-old has spent the past three seasons as the bench coach with the Chicago Cubs.
He was not only a part of the 2016 team that brought home a World Series title, but the Cubs have also gone to the National League Championship Series in three straight seasons with Martinez on the staff.
Conversely, the Nationals haven't won a playoff series since moving to Washington in 2005. The organization has lost in the division series in four of the last six years, with three of those finishing in Game 5. The Cubs ended Washington's 2017 season, leading to Dusty Baker's departure despite his 192-132 record in two years with the club.
Despite the organization's lack of postseason success, Martinez has faith in the team's ability to break through.
"I'm looking forward to working with them and being a part of the 2018 championship season," he said Thursday.
The Nationals will bring back most of their core contributors from last season, as Jayson Werth is their most notable free agent. Adam Eaton, who played just 23 games in 2017 before suffering a season-ending knee injury, should help the outfield.
Martinez will hope he can be the missing piece to get this talented group over the hump in the postseason.



Houston Astros pitcher Charlie Morton allowed just one run over four innings of work in Wednesday's World Series-clinching victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers.
Morton's effort not only secured Houston's first-ever World series, but it also made him the first pitcher in MLB history to earn the win in Game 7 of both the League Championship Series and the World Series in the same season, per ESPN Stats & Info.
The 33-year-old hurler's signing in free agency prior to 2017 was a rather small footnote for the club during the offseason, but he turned out to be a major contributor for the club. Morton served as a starting pitcher during the regular season, posting a 3.62 ERA and 1.19 WHIP over 146.2 innings.
Morton lasted just a combined eight innings between his first two postseason starts for the Astros, but that didn't deter manager A.J. Hinch from turning to the veteran for Game 7 of the ALCS against the New York Yankees.
He responded to the call by firing five scoreless frames against the Yankees and followed that up with a stellar Game 4 against the Dodgers in which he allowed just one run over 6.1 frames. The latter outing was spoiled by closer Ken Giles' implosion in the top of the ninth inning.
Although Morton's spot in the rotation wouldn't come up in the remainder of the series, a short start (2.1 innings) from Lance McCullers in Game 7 forced Hinch to turn to the bullpen early. Following three other relievers, Morton came on in the sixth inning and closed out the game with four solid innings, making history in the process.
Morton remains under contract with the Astros for one more season. Given the team's returning talent from 2017, there's no reason the club shouldn't be in contention for back-to-back championships.



After winning the first World Series championship in the 55-year history of the franchise, the Houston Astros will gather to celebrate with their fans on Friday. 
The Astros won a drama-filled series against the Los Angeles Dodgers, including a 5-1 victory in Game 7, to be crowned the champions of Major League Baseball. This came after they posted 101 wins during the regular season, the second-most in franchise history. 
Here's all you need to know to prepare for Friday's championship celebration in downtown Houston. 
      
Astros Championship Parade
Date: Friday, Nov. 3
Start Time: 3 p.m. ET
Watch: MLB Network
      
Predictions
Attendance

While every championship parade involves a standard checklist of moments, including player speeches and fan interaction, there are always singular moments that make each one stand out on its own. 
Because the Astros have never won a championship, the total number of people who will be in attendance at the celebration on Friday figures to be massive. It's not likely to approach the five million fans who made the Chicago Cubs' parade last year the seventh-largest public gathering in human history. 
The Cubs have a massive national following that few franchises in any sport can match, but the Astros have the potential to at least break the million mark. 
For starters, according to the United States Census from July 2016, the population in Houston is 2.3 million, compared to 2.7 million in Chicago. 
Even though the city of Chicago was excited to see the Cubs win, fans had seen sports teams win multiple titles over the past 25 years between the Bulls, Blackhawks and White Sox. 
Houston hasn't had a sports franchise win a championship since the Rockets won back-to-back titles in 1994 and 1995, so fan anticipation for this moment has been building over the past 22 years. 
Cleveland, a city with a population of 385,000, drew 1.3 million fans for the Cavaliers' 2016 title celebration. It was the first championship in franchise history and first title for any pro sport team in the city since the Browns in 1964. 
Given that information, anything less than a million fans in attendance at the parade would have to be considered a disappointment. 
     
How Will Justin Verlander Celebrate?

It's impossible to overstate how valuable Justin Verlander was for the Astros after being acquired from the Detroit Tigers on Aug. 31. The former American League MVP went 9-1 in 11 appearances with a 1.67 ERA and 81 strikeouts in 70.2 innings. 
Under normal circumstances, Verlander's attendance wouldn't even be in question. But Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports dropped this bombshell after the Astros won the World Series:
Word seems to be that Verlander-Upton wedding is this weekend in Italy. He'll have to miss the parade presumably.
Per Brad Galli of WXYZ ABC in Detroit, Verlander's wedding to Kate Upton will force him to miss out on celebrating the first championship of his 13-year Major League Baseball career. 
Love is in the air for these Astros. All-Star shortstop Carlos Correa proposed to his girlfriend on the field at Dodger Stadium:
1 night, 2 rings. Carlos Correa proposes!

Congrats to the Correa's! #WorldSeries  https://t.co/SgRGw0NVGZ
The good news for Astros fans is Correa and his fiancee still have to plan their wedding, so he doesn't have any other obligation keeping him from Houston on Friday. 
As for Verlander, he's been engaged to Upton for 18 months and all their plans have been finalized. There are worse reasons to skip a World Series celebration than getting married to your long-time girlfriend in Italy.



The Houston Astros captured their first World Series title Wednesday night with a 5-1 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers in Game 7. Now, while the 'Stros celebrate, the focus shifts to the offseason for front offices around MLB.
Both the Astros and Dodgers are well-positioned to contend for a championship in 2018. While there will probably be plenty of talk about a budding dynasty in Houston, remember there was similar talk about the Chicago Cubs last year. Going back-to-back is incredibly difficult.
Let's check out how the offseason is shaping up for each of the World Series combatants as they attempt to remain the class of their respective leagues. 
               
Houston Astros
Almost all of the Astros' key contributors are set to return. It's a star-studded group led by Jose Altuve, Carlos Correa, Alex Bregman and George Springer on offense and a starting rotation without a weak link thanks to Dallas Keuchel, Justin Verlander, Charlie Morton, Lance McCullers Jr. and Brad Peacock.
The one key concern that arose during the postseason was the bullpen.
Houston finished the playoffs with a 5.40 ERA from their relievers, which doesn't even illustrate the full scale of the problem because it began to use starters out of the pen due to the struggles. That worked to help win the World Series, but it leaves a glaring void heading into the winter.
Three members of the beleaguered unit are projected free agents (Francisco Liriano, Luke Gregerson and Tyler Clippard), which will create some payroll flexibility to fix the issue.
The question is whether the Astros will go after one of the high-profile options like Greg Holland or Wade Davis in free agency. It's always a costly endeavor, but with no other major needs and about $26 million coming off the books with Liriano, Gregerson and Clippard, the money should be there.
Meanwhile, Carlos Beltran and Cameron Maybin are the notable potential exits offensively. The Astros can likely fill those spots in-house. Marwin Gonzalez and Yulieski Gurriel can split time at first base and designated hitter. Jake Marisnick can play center field until prized prospect Kyle Tucker is ready.
So there isn't a ton of work for the Astros to do as they prepare to defend their title. Upgrading the bullpen could make them even more formidable in 2018, though.
                    
Los Angeles Dodgers
A lot of things said about the Astros can be echoed for the Dodgers. They feature a championship-caliber roster with a limited number of impact free agents and should only need to focus on depth moves in order to keep themselves in contention for next year and beyond.
There are some marquee names on their free-agent list, including Andre Ethier, Curtis Granderson and Chase Utley, but they are no longer the run producers they were during their respective primes. The only significant possible losses are starter Yu Darvish and reliever Brandon Morrow.
L.A. probably won't sign another high-priced starting pitcher. The Clayton Kershaw-led rotation is strong and it can follow the same path it did with Darvish and acquire a rental at the trade deadline if an upgrade is needed for the stretch run next year.
Attempting to re-sign Morrow will likely be a top priority, though. He posted a 2.06 ERA and 0.92 WHIP with 50 strikeouts in 43.2 innings during the regular season. He also pitched in all seven World Series games, showcasing the confidence manager Dave Roberts has in the right-handed setup man.
If Morrow signs elsewhere, the Dodgers front office, which has shown a consistent willingness to spend money to upgrade the roster, could join the sweepstakes for Holland or Davis.
Offensively, the outlook rides on whether Los Angeles is going to give veteran first baseman Adrian Gonzalez a chance to rebound after a down year that ended prematurely due to injury. If not, Cody Bellinger will likely stick at first base and leave a void in left field.
J.D. Martinez and Jay Bruce represent the top outfield options among the possible free agents, but a multifaceted weapon like Lorenzo Cain or Carlos Gomez could provide more bang for the buck.
All told, the Dodgers already have the top projected payroll at just over $177 million. How much higher they're willing to go will determine what type of bullpen and outfield additions they can make this winter.
        
All contract information courtesy of Spotrac.



Houston Astros center fielder George Springer made it to the plate twice in the first two innings of Game 7 against the Los Angeles Dodgers, scoring a run in each of the two appearances.
The first tally of Game 7 came from Springer on a throwing error by Dodgers first baseman Cody Bellinger, but he didn't require any assistance for the second. The 28-year-old smacked a two-run homer in the top of the second inning, becoming the third player in MLB history to hit five in a single World Series, per MLB Stat of the Day.
Springer's long fly was also the last pitch of the night from Dodgers starter Yu Darvish, who lasted fewer than two innings in each of his two World Series starts. His homer also gave the Astros a 5-0 lead in the contest, which ultimately held up.
Not only did he play a big role in the franchise's first-ever World Series, but his efforts also allowed him to take home the Most Valuable Player honors. Springer batted .379 with five home runs, seven RBI and eight runs scored during baseball's final series of 2017.
Springer's output during the World Series was a stark contrast to his efforts during the ALCS, when he managed only three hits in 26 at-bats. That series also went to seven games against the New York Yankees before the Astros advanced.
The 2011 first-round selection (11th overall) still has three years of arbitration remaining before potentially hitting the open market in 2021. However, it wouldn't be surprising if the Astros attempt to ink their star to a contract extension before that date nears.



The bundles of stress and sleepless nights that come with a seven-game World Series turned into pure elation on Wednesday night, when the Houston Astros captured their first World Series. 
Charlie Morton was the star of Game 7 at Dodger Stadium, as he tossed four spectacular innings in relief to silence the powerful Dodgers lineup. 
George Springer won the Most Valuable Player award for hitting five home runs in the series, the final one of which came in the form of a two-run shot to center in the second inning off Yu Darvish. 
The celebration is only beginning for the Astros. The parade in Houston is set for Friday afternoon. 
Astros Parade Info
Date and Start Time: Friday, Nov. 3, 3 p.m. ET
TV: MLB Network
Live Stream: MLB.com
(TV and live-stream info based on past parade coverage.)
If the celebration at Minute Maid Park during the Game 7 watch party is any indication of how the parade will be, Houston will be in for a party that lasts the whole weekend. The city's official Twitter account provided a look into the celebrations at the viewing party: 
Our @astros are WORLD CHAMPIONS! #EarnHistory #WorldSeries #Champions https://t.co/38ez5Uf9ty
The team felt the exact same emotion, with Dallas Keuchel putting it perfectly to Jake Kaplan of the Houston Chronicle: 
Dallas Keuchel on running from the bullpen to the infield to celebrate: "I didn't want to get passed by anybody. I felt like Usain Bolt."
Jose Altuve has been with the organization since 2011 and experienced all the highs and lows possible along the way. The second baseman and AL MVP candidate will surely be front and center at Friday's party. He expressed his joy postgame to Tom Verducci of Fox: 
"This is the happiest moment of my life."- @astros' star @JoseAltuve27 after winning the #WorldSeries  https://t.co/zkKx2dGNMt
The parade itself will begin on Smith Street at Lamar Street in Houston and the surrounding area will be shut down an hour prior to the parade. The route swings through downtown Houston before a celebration at the end at City Hall, per ABC 13 in Houston. 
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90.



The Los Angeles Angels and outfielder Justin Upton reached an agreement Thursday on a five-year contract extension to keep the slugger with the Halos through the 2022 MLB season.  
L.A. officially announced the new deal on social media. Bob Nightengale of USA Today reported the overall value of the contact is $106 million.
Upton was traded to the Angels from the Detroit Tigers in August. He finished the year with a .273/.361/.540 triple-slash line and a career-high 35 home runs across 152 games between the two teams. His .901 OPS also set a new career-best mark in that category.
The 30-year-old Virginia native was the first overall pick of the Arizona Diamondbacks in the 2005 draft, but he has struggled to find a consistent home despite plenty of success. He owns a .348 OBP with 256 homers in 1,489 appearances with the Angels, Tigers, D-Backs, Atlanta Braves and San Diego Padres.
Now Upton, who's earned four All-Star Game selections and two Silver Slugger Awards, should be locked into the Los Angeles lineup for the foreseeable future.
In September, when Upton was asked about his potential foray into free agency by utilizing a player option in his previous contract, he provided a simple response about the key factor.
"Winning," he told reporters. "Winning."
The Angels finished the 2017 campaign with an 80-82 record, which ranked second in the AL West behind the World Series champion Houston Astros. They fell five games short of the final wild-card spot, though it might have been a different story had Mike Trout not been limited to 114 games because of injuries. 
Ensuring Upton remained in the fold is an early offseason victory for L.A. Now the front office must focus on upgrading an offense that lacked high-end firepower outside of him and Trout.



Fact: The Astros won their first World Series in franchise history.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: @MLB



The Seattle Mariners hired Lorena Martin to serve as the team’s director of high performance, per Larry Stone of the Seattle Times, a role that will see Martin "oversee the medical, strength and conditioning, nutrition and mental skills departments."  
"We started opening doors I don’t know if anyone in baseball had really opened in the high-performance world," general manager Jerry Dipoto told Stone. "And we started realizing, 'Oh, my gosh, there's so much out there that we were not aware of, because we were always working in our close-minded baseball world.' That's where I've been for three decades."
Dipoto's goal is to limit the time players spend on the disabled list in the upcoming seasons by 25 percent, per Stone, and in Martin, they hired someone with an extensive background in a number of concentrations.
According to Stone, she has "a masters in psychology from Nova Southeastern University, a Ph.D. in exercise physiology from the University of Miami, and three post-doctorates in GIS spatial analysis, biostatistics and epidemiology from the University of California-San Diego, plus fluency in Spanish and status as a certified athletic trainer, certified strength coach and certified nutritionist."
For a Mariners team that dealt with constant injuries throughout the 2017 season and had to use a franchise-record 40 pitchers throughout the year, a cutting-edge approach to its health and training staff makes sense. Stone noted the team lost 1,477 days to injuries in the 2017 season, which certainly isn't conducive to winning should it become a pattern.
For the 78-84 Mariners, those health issues could have been the difference between reaching the postseason and missing October baseball. The team finished seven games out of the wild-card chase behind the Minnesota Twins.
Martin previously worked as a the director of performance analytics for the Los Angeles Lakers, but her new role with the Mariners will offer her the opportunity to utilize her varied background.
"My way of visualizing this is that everyone has an equation for how they best perform," she said. "There are certain things psychologically and physically that get that person into their zone to perform at their best. So finding that optimum for each player—I can't tell you all the tricks of the trade, but finding that for each player and putting that into practice is what I’m here to do."



The Houston Astros won their first championship in franchise history Wednesday night when they defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers 5-1 in Game 7 of the World Series at Dodger Stadium.
Houston jumped all over Dodgers starter Yu Darvish early on and never looked back en route to becoming the class of the baseball world.
Astros starter Lance McCullers Jr. only lasted 2.1 innings, but Houston pieced things together with its bullpen, and Charlie Morton went four innings in relief to close out the win.
As seen in the following GIF courtesy of the Astros' official Twitter account, Morton was mobbed by his elated teammates after recording the final out of the World Series:
CHARLIE. FREAKIN. MORTON. #EarnedHistory https://t.co/rQGUFQ2CDI
Astros second baseman Jose Altuve made the last play of the game, and it left what is sure to be a long-lasting impression on him, according to the Associated Press (h/t ESPN.com): "I caught the last out for the Houston Astros to become a world champion. It was a groundball to me, I threw to first, and I think it was the happiest moment of my life in baseball."
It wasn't long before MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred presented the Astros with the Commissioner's Trophy, which took the celebration to another level, as evidenced by this video from Fox Sports MLB:
The first ever Commissioner’s Trophy for the @astros! #WorldSeries  https://t.co/RJNPbdL4uy
Perhaps the only thing that could have made Wednesday's win more special for the Astros and their fans was if they had clinched the title at home.
Despite winning in L.A., Houston's supporters celebrated raucously halfway across the country at Minute Maid Park:
IT'S A PARTY AT MINUTE MAID! #WorldSeries  https://t.co/rkvhCnzHf1
Shortstop Carlos Correa has been a huge part of Houston going from the worst team in baseball to world champions.
Winning the World Series was a huge moment for him because of that, but he made it even more special during the aftermath.
Correa took the opportunity to propose to his girlfriend, Daniella Rodriguez, and she said yes:
SHE SAID YES! Congratulations, @TeamCJCorrea! https://t.co/SN5ISx2ydC
The 23-year-old star discussed his decision to propose following the game and revealed that a great deal of planning went into it, per ESPN.com:
"... I was planning if we were World Series champions, I was going to do it right there. I don't think that's a stage you can create, it just has to happen. And we were able to win tonight, so perfect timing for me to get engaged.
"I've been thinking about it for months now, but I was waiting for the perfect opportunity, you know. I knew we had a great team, we could accomplish this, and I wasn't wrong."
The feel-good moment created by Correa and Rodriguez added another layer of excitement and drama to one of the most rowdy celebrations in recent memory.
Things got even crazier once the Astros hit the locker room and began to douse each other in champagne, signaling the end of a long, arduous and successful season:
🍾🍾🍾 https://t.co/gw3SruSnHs
To put the cherry on top of the entire scene, the Commissioner's Trophy made its way to the locker room and received a healthy dose of champagne as well:
The trophy’s here! #EarnedHistory https://t.co/w0TRt64gDN
The Astros went through plenty of suffering as Major League Baseball's doormat from 2011 through 2013, but it was all part of the process that helped push them to the top.
Thanks to savvy draft picks, trades and free-agent signings, there is no longer any question that Houston is the best team in baseball.
With young stars such as Correa, Altuve, Alex Bregman and World Series MVP George Springer still in place, the potential is there to compete for championships for many years to come and perhaps even build a dynasty.



Jose Altuve is a superstar. Baseball fans have known this for years.
After guiding the Houston Astros to their first title in franchise history, everyone else is joining the bandwagon.
Through the first four years of his career, the second baseman never hit more than seven home runs in a single season. He hit seven in the playoffs this year alone.
Both of his World Series homers came amid the chaos of extra-inning classics in Games 2 and 5. Although he ceded World Series MVP honors to George Springer, the 5'6" star is a prime candidate to win the American League's regular-season award.
Altuve has led the AL in hits in each of the past four seasons, but the postseason presented him a national platform to reach casual viewers. It appears he earned many new fans.
Following Houston's 5-1 win in Game 7, he checked his phone while speaking to reporters. Per Adam Caparell of Complex, the 27-year-old blamed the distraction on an influx of social media buzz:
Jose Altuve on why he's been looking at his phone - "I've been checking my Instagram followers. They went up 20,000 in the last 10 minutes."
As of Thursday morning, Altuve has approximately 810,000 Instagram followers. 
[Adam Caparell]



Los Angeles Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw said "nobody cares about or remembers" who finished in second place after the team's 5-1 loss to the Houston Astros in Game 7 of the 2017 World Series on Wednesday night. 
Josh Peter of USA Today passed along reaction from the three-time National League Cy Young Award winner, who finished the playoffs with a 3.82 ERA and 0.94 WHIP in six appearances.
"Maybe one of these days I won't fail, we won't fail and we'll win one of these things," Kershaw said. "There's only one team that can succeed. There's only one team that wins the last game, so that's tough. I think once the dust settles and we go home, we can realize that we had a pretty amazing season and we finished in second place, which nobody cares about or remembers."
The 29-year-old starting pitcher delivered four innings of scoreless relief in the decisive game of a memorable Fall Classic, but it was too little too late. The five runs Houston scored while starter Yu Darvish was in the game were enough to push the organization to its first championship.
Meanwhile, Kershaw said the Dodgers' postseason run was a draining experience and those feelings were amplified by coming up just short of the ultimate goal, according to Peter.
"This month felt like 27 years," he said. "You can ask my wife too. I think it took 10 years off her life. It's just every game, every pitch, it's just so intense. It's hard. You go through this much effort to win that many games against this many good teams and it's, I mean, I hope to get to this point again."
He added: "Right now we're just trying to kind of, without being too emotional, just kind of embracing each other a little bit. Just understanding we're all feeling the same hurt."
L.A. won the first four games Kershaw started in the playoffs, but it lost his Game 5 World Series start, which saw him allow six earned runs over 4.2 innings in a 13-12 extra-innings defeat.
That said, his presence is one of the major reasons the Dodgers are set up for long-term success. He's the most dominant starting pitcher in baseball as he illustrated once again during the regular season with an NL-best 2.31 ERA and 202 strikeouts in 175 innings.
The only thing missing on an otherwise outstanding career resume, which includes an MVP and seven All-Star Game selections in addition to the Cy Young Awards, is a World Series title.



The home of Los Angeles Dodgers outfielder Yasiel Puig was burglarized Wednesday night during Game 7 of the World Series between the Dodgers and Houston Astros. 
According to CBS Los Angeles, a Los Angeles Police Department watch commander said a window was broken at Puig's home and items were taken from it, although further specifics weren't offered.
Puig and the Dodgers were defeated 5-1 on Wednesday, falling one win short of the franchise's first World Series title since 1988.
Puig's previous residence in the Sherman Oaks area of L.A. was burglarized in March with thieves taking $170,000 in valuables, per CBS Los Angeles.
From an on-field perspective, though, 2017 was a resurgent year for Puig, as he hit .263 with a career-high 28 home runs, 74 RBI and 15 stolen bases.
It was a huge turnaround for the Cuba native considering he was sent to the minors at one point in 2016.
Puig also enjoyed a fantastic 2017 postseason, hitting .286 with three homers and 10 RBI in 15 games across the NLDS, NLCS and World Series.



In a World Series filled with seemingly endless drama, the Houston Astros needed relatively little of it to win Wednesday's Game 7 at Dodger Stadium over the Los Angeles Dodgers, 5-1.
George Springer secured his Fall Classic MVP with a leadoff double, the first run and a two-run home run, marking the fourth straight World Series contest he drilled a long ball. The pitching did the heavy lifting from there, as Lance McCullers Jr., Brad Peacock, Francisco Liriano, Chris Devenski and Charlie Morton allowed a mere one run as a collective while finishing the series.
Now comes the celebration.
Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner announced the parade for the Astros' first World Series title in franchise history will be Friday at 2 p.m. local time.
ABC 13 in Houston noted the parade route will be shut down by 1 p.m. "The celebration will begin on Smith at Lamar, proceeding north on Smith, east on Walker, south on Milam, west on Pease, north on Smith and ending at Lamar Street," ABC 13 reported.
Based on past parade coverage, expect it to be televised by MLB Network and live-streamed by MLB.com.
Considering this is the Astros' first-ever championship and the first major professional sports title for the city since the Houston Rockets won the Larry O'Brien Trophy in 1995, expect hundreds of thousands of locals to turn out in force for a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
There will surely be player speeches from the young core of Carlos Correa, Jose Altuve and Springer—especially after the latter captured the World Series MVP trophy for his dominant performance.
However, don't be surprised if ace pitcher Justin Verlander misses the festivities, as Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports pointed out:
Word seems to be that Verlander-Upton wedding is this weekend in Italy. He'll have to miss the parade presumably.
ABC 13 in Houston gave a glimpse of the type of celebratory mood to expect when capturing some of Wednesday's party at Minute Maid Park after the Astros won in Los Angeles:
LET'S KEEP THE CELEBRATION GOING! The @astros PARADE is FRIDAY and we want to see all of you there! https://t.co/IpVi8sqegP #EarnHistory https://t.co/H6faOpaHJM
On a more serious note, Houston is a city that could use a celebration.
While sports are trivial compared to real-life tragedies, they also have the power to bring communities together. After Houston suffered through Hurricane Harvey, look for this parade to provide an outlet for families, friends and strangers to celebrate the resiliency of their city and the Houston Strong attitude.
"It's a true privilege to proudly host this magnificent salute to our hometown team that has earned history," Mayor Turner said, per ABC 13. "As we bounce back from Hurricane Harvey, we are more than ready to welcome our heroes home in proper form."
The expectation here is hundreds of thousands will come out and show the rest of the country just how strong Houston is as it celebrates something that has never been done before: the Astros winning the World Series.



The 2017 MLB season came to a close Thursday night as the Houston Astros were crowned World Series champions. There's plenty of celebrating still to come for the Astros and their fans, but for the rest of the MLB world, the offseason is now officially underway.
As such, it's time for an updated version of our leaguewide power rankings with a focus on what's to come.
For the first edition of our offseason rankings, teams will be ranked based on their outlook for the 2018 season. That took into account things like how complete the roster is heading into free agency, how active the team is expected to be and the overall direction the franchise is headed.
In other words, don't be surprised when a Kansas City Royals team that won 80 games is ranked below a Philadelphia Phillies team that won 66 games.
Again, we're looking ahead to 2018.
We'll put together fresh versions of these power rankings throughout the offseason, with teams shifting based on their wheelings and dealings. For now, this will serve as a starting point.
        
On a personal note, I want to say thanks to everyone for reading along all season. This was my sixth year authoring our weekly MLB power rankings here at Bleacher Report, and it's still one of my favorite parts of the job.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 14
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The rebuilding train has left the station for the Detroit Tigers, and the next few seasons figure to be lean ones as a result. 
Trading Justin Verlander and Justin Upton in August was a clear signal of the shift in direction, and more deals could be coming this winter.
Controllable starter Michael Fulmer is easily their most attractive trade chip. Veteran second baseman Ian Kinsler and reliever Shane Greene will also generate interest if they're made available, and there's no reason to think they won't.
As for potential additions, something needs to be done about what was the worst bullpen in baseball, even if it's just rolling the dice on a handful of low-cost signings and hoping a couple pitch their way into becoming trade chips by midseason.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 30
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
All things considered, avoiding a 100-loss season can be considered a small victory for the rebuilding San Diego Padres.
With a patchwork starting rotation and a lineup devoid of impact talent outside of 2016 All-Star Wil Myers, they looked like a safe bet for the worst record in baseball. Instead, they managed to avoid a last-place finish in the NL West while adding three wins to the previous year's total.
That said, this team is still several years from contending.
They'll likely employ a dirt-cheap starting rotation once again next season while filling out the rest of the roster with low-cost veterans. 
It's all about biding their time while they wait on the development of one of the most talented farm systems in baseball.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 28
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The Chicago White Sox had as busy a calendar year as any seller in recent memory, shipping out the likes of Chris Sale, Jose Quintana, Adam Eaton, Todd Frazier, David Robertson, Tommy Kahnle, Anthony Swarzak, Dan Jennings, Melky Cabrera and Miguel Gonzalez. 
The result is the No. 2 farm system in baseball and a team that's a least a handful of seasons away from a return to contention.
Still, it's an exciting time to be a White Sox as the team finally has a clear direction after years of treading water and hovering around the .500 mark.
Expect the front office to add a few cheap starters and a handful of bargain relievers to fill out the staff in hopes they can hit on a few more surprise trade chips like they did with Swarzak and Kahnle.
But chances are there won't be any major signings on the South Side for at least a few more years.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 26
2017 Team Stats
     
Offseason Outlook
The Oakland Athletics closed out an otherwise forgettable season on a high note with a 17-7 record and plus-59 run differential over their final 24 games.
That won't change the team's immediate plans, though.
Executive vice president Billy Beane acknowledged over the summer that the team was finally ready to commit to a full-scale rebuild and then proceeded to trade Sonny Gray, Ryan Madson, Sean Doolittle and Yonder Alonso.
The perennially frugal Athletics don't have a ton of high-priced pieces to move like most other teams do once they start rebuilding, but that acknowledgment from Beane is a good indication that they're going to play the young guys. 
In other words, don't expect another offseason like last year when they went out and added the likes of Trevor Plouffe, Rajai Davis, Santiago Casilla and Adam Rosales to fill out the roster. 
On the other hand, guys like Sean Manaea, Khris Davis and Kendall Graveman could be shopped.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 20
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The Kansas City Royals turned years of losing into a terrific homegrown core that yielded back-to-back AL pennants and a World Series title.
Now they face the harsh realities of being a small-market team.
Eric Hosmer, Mike Moustakas and Lorenzo Cain are all free agents, and the team will be lucky to retain one of those three stars. Longtime shortstop Alcides Escobar and All-Star starter Jason Vargas are also free agents and unlikely to return.
So where does that leave the Royals?
With one of the weakest farm systems in baseball—ranked No. 29 in our final update of the season—it figures to be a long road ahead. 
As far as this offseason is concerned, expect to see reliever Kelvin Herrera shopped a year removed from his own free agency, while the team will likely stick to mid-level additions to plug the numerous roster holes.
A massive deal to bring back Hosmer is still a possibility, but it's debatable whether that's even in the best interest of the team given their current short-term outlook.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 29
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The Cincinnati Reds are already a few years into the rebuilding process and they are coming off a third straight season with at least 90 losses.
Sorting out the pitching staff is what separates them from beginning the climb back toward contention.
A whopping 18 different rookie pitchers made at least one appearances, and there are still more questions than answers going forward as far as the staff is concerned.
Despite all of those young arms, the team will likely still look to add a stabilizing veteran in free agency. Think something on par with last year's addition of Scott Feldman. 
They could also look to flip a few more moveable parts.
Controllable relievers Raisel Iglesias, Michael Lorenzen and Wandy Peralta would all generate huge interest if shopped, while the speed and defense of Billy Hamilton are still enough to give him some intriguing value despite his offensive shortcomings.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 18
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
A new ownership group could mean a whirlwind of change for the Miami Marlins this offseason.
With a goal to trim the payroll to $90 million, the front office is actively looking to move Giancarlo Stanton, Dee Gordon and Martin Prado this winter, according to Barry Jackson of the Miami Herald.
Stanton is owed $285 million through the 2027 season with a full no-trade clause, so moving him is easier said than done. If the goal is to unload the bulk of that money, they might need to accept a less-than-inspiring prospect return.
There's no indication at this point that they'll take things a step further and look to move controllable assets like Christian Yelich, Marcell Ozuna, J.T. Realmuto and Dan Straily, although they would obviously net a more substantial return. 
At any rate, it sounds like the Marlins will be taking the 2018 season to reset and venture in a new direction under their new owners.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 24
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The Philadelphia Phillies took a disappointing step backward in the rebuilding process, losing five more games than they did in 2016 despite adding a handful of veterans last offseason.
However, they remain a team on the rise.
Aaron Nola looks like a legitimate rotation anchor, Rhys Hoskins exploded onto the scene as a rookie, and plenty more prospect talent is on the way. 
They also have a ton of money to spend with an Opening Day payroll just over $100 million last season and under $30 million on the books to this point for the upcoming season—including projected arbitration raises.
This could be the offseason where they look to make a splash, and signing one of the market's top starting pitchers might be the best way to allocate a big chunk of those available funds.
A run at a .500 record could be in the cards in 2018 as the future looks increasingly bright.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 23
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
If only the Atlanta Braves could hop in a time machine and shoot forward three years or so, we might be talking about one of the best teams in baseball.
With the No. 1 farm system in baseball and plenty of payroll flexibility, they have all the pieces to build a sustainable winner, having followed a similar rebuilding path as the Cubs and Astros.
For now, they need to find a way to balance youth and veteran experience on a roster that is still taking shape. 
The organization is overflowing with high-level pitching talent, but the front office would still be wise to add a few veteran arms to the rotation. A blockbuster deal for a legitimate ace is not out of the question, but additions similar to the Bartolo Colon/R.A. Dickey/Jaime Garcia haul of a year ago might be more realistic.
As for the position-player side of things, the team could use a proven third baseman and might feel inclined to trade either Matt Kemp or Nick Markakis in an effort to clear a path for uber-prospect Ronald Acuna.
Despite another 90-loss season, they're in as enviable a long-term position as any team in baseball. It's simply a matter of patience.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 16
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The Baltimore Orioles had the worst starters' ERA in baseball this season.
So, of course, they're already discussing potential reunions with two of the biggest offenders—Wade Miley (5.61) and Chris Tillman (7.84).
The O's farm system, while improving, is still thin on potential impact talent.
So, of course, the front office has taken a hard-line stance that they won't be trading Manny Machado or Zach Britton, two players set to reach free agency after next season and who would bring a significant haul.
Welcome to baseball limbo, Orioles fans. 
Simply put, they're not going to contend in the AL East with their current core and they seem to have no intention of rebuilding.
Pitching is the glaring need, and they don't have the money convince any of the market's top arms that bringing their talents to homer-friendly Camden Yards would be a worthwhile move.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 11
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
Better health would go a long way for the New York Mets in 2018.
Jacob deGrom was the only pitcher to log more than 120 innings, and 10 different pitchers started at least five games as the rotation was absolutely decimated by injuries.
A healthy Noah Syndergaard and any sort of bounce-back performance from Matt Harvey and Steven Matz would far outweigh any outside additions by the front office. However, counting on all three to be top-flight contributors would be foolish.
Adding a durable starter capable of eating some innings in the role previously filled by Bartolo Colon seems like an obvious move and shoring up the bullpen with a few veteran arms is also on the to-do list, according to Marc Carig of Newsday. 
It all comes down to how much the front office is willing to spend versus how much they're banking on the in-house talent to rebound. After they went without a single notable addition last offseason, it's hard to expect a splashy winter this time around.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 8
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
Do the San Francisco Giants think they can bounce back from a 98-loss season to contend with their current core?
That's the question facing the front office this winter, and if the answer is yes, expect them to make a serious run at acquiring slugger Giancarlo Stanton—they were identified as the early favorites to land him by Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports.
Third base is also an area where the team could look to add a power bat in an effort to bolster an offense that ranked 29th in the majors in runs per game. With the $21 million salary of Matt Cain off the books, they have money to spend.
However, if the answer is no, it could still be a busy offseason. 
Jon Paul Morosi of MLB.com wrote at the trade deadline that the only players viewed as untouchable on the roster were Madison Bumgarner, Buster Posey and Brandon Crawford. That leaves guys like Brandon Belt, Joe Panik and Jeff Samardzija as notable potential trade chips.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 7
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
Has the Toronto Blue Jays' window closed?
After winning the AL East title in 2015 and advancing to the American League Championship Series as a wild card in 2016, they finished fourth in the division standings and 10 games under .500 this season.
The 2015 club was led by a juggernaut offense that averaged 5.5 runs per game and scored 127 more runs than any other team, while the 2016 team was carried by a starting staff that led the AL with a 3.64 ERA.
Neither was an area of strength this season as the offense was the lowest-scoring in the AL and the rotation dealt with injuries all season and saw 14 different pitchers start a game. 
Josh Donaldson is a free agent following the 2018 season and he'll see his name pop up early and often in trade rumors this winter.
Don't be surprised if the Blue Jays hold onto him in hopes of one last hurrah with this current group.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 15
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The Pittsburgh Pirates have a chance to be one of the game-changers of the 2017-18 MLB offseason.
After three straight postseason appearances, the Pirates have now posted back-to-back losing seasons and it could be time for the small-market club to do some retooling.
The first big decision will be what to do with the face of the franchise, Andrew McCutchen.
He was shopped unsuccessfully last offseason after a down season, then bounced back to post an .849 OPS with 28 home runs and 88 RBI. His $14.75 million team option is a safe bet to be exercised, but will he be flipped later in the offseason?
If the team does decide to trade McCutchen, could that set in motion a busy winter as sellers? 
Ace Gerrit Cole has two years of control left and he's due a significant raise over the $3.75 million he earned last year, while closer Felipe Rivero would net a huge return after emerging as one of the game's most dominant relievers.
Regardless of what they do with their internal talent, there won't be any splashy signings.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 12
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The summer trade of Yu Darvish doesn't necessarily mean that the Texas Rangers are headed for a rebuild, but there is significant work to do this offseason, specifically on the pitching side of things.
The emergence of Joey Gallo and resurgence of Delino DeShields help plug a pair of offensive holes, and prospects Ronald Guzman and Willie Calhoun both appear ready to step into significant roles in the majors, leaving no glaring area of need in the lineup. 
However, lefties Cole Hamels and Martin Perez look like the only locks in the rotation, and the bullpen saw season-long role shuffling before Alex Claudio finally settled into the ninth-inning gig.
Look for the front office to add at least two starters externally and a couple veteran relievers in an effort to shore up the staff and keep pace in the AL West.
Don't count out the possibility of a reunion with Darvish, and they could also look to re-up with Andrew Cashner after he made good on a one-year deal.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 22
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
There's no reason to expect any major changes in the way the small-budget Tampa Bay Rays approach the offseason.
Alex Cobb will almost certainly depart for greener pastures in a thin market for starting pitching, and Logan Morrison might be able to parlay his 38-homer season in a multiyear deal outside of the Rays' preferred price range.
Outside of those two notable free agents, it's essentially the same team returning, and the front office will continue to fill in the gaps with scrapheap signings and homegrown players. 
Top pitching prospect Brent Honeywell should be along in short order to fill a spot in the rotation and a healthy Jose De Leon could do the same, so there's no pressing need to sign someone to replace Cobb.
Given the aforementioned thin starting pitching market, it might behoove the team to shop Chris Archer and Jake Odorizzi to see if someone is willing to make them an offer they can't refuse.
Otherwise, expect another year of relying on the starting pitching to shoulder the load while hoping they can hit on more low-cost signings like last year's LoMo deal.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 21
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The clock is ticking on the Los Angeles Angels as they look to build a winner around superstar Mike Trout, and that should be all the motivation the front office needs for it to be a busy winter.
The 26-year-old is signed for three more seasons and he's made just one playoff appearance to this point.
Justin Upton holds the club's first big offseason decision in his hands, as he'll need to decide whether to opt out of the final four years and $88.5 million of his current deal.
Regardless, the team should be aggressively pursuing offensive help after finishing 22nd in the majors and 11th in the AL in runs per game. 
Second base (.601 OPS, 30th in MLB) and third base (.713 OPS, 25th in MLB) will both be easy areas to upgrade, and finding more left-handed hitting (.689 OPS, 29th in MLB) should also be a priority.
Meanwhile, the starting rotation and bullpen both have solid upside, especially if guys like Garrett Richards, Matt Shoemaker and Cam Bedrosian can stay healthy.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 27
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
It's still nothing short of amazing that the Minnesota Twins reached the Wild Card Game with a makeshift bullpen and a starting rotation that was full of question marks.
The offense did a lot of the heavy lifting and will return intact with no major free agents on the position-player side of things, but there's a lot of work to do on the pitching staff.
Bartolo Colon and Hector Santiago are both free agents, and Phil Hughes will miss significant time following thoracic outlet revision surgery in August.
That leaves Ervin Santana, Jose Berrios, Kyle Gibson and Adalberto Mejia projected for four spots in the rotation, with significant question marks beyond that. 
As for the bullpen, stopgap closer Matt Belisle is also a free agent, and the relief corps as a whole is sorely lacking in proven arms.
How much the front office is willing to spend on the pitching staff will determine whether they can make another run at contention.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 10
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The Seattle Mariners are sitting on the longest postseason drought in the majors, having not reached the playoffs since 2001.
And there are a number of needs to address if they hope to put an end to that in 2018.
The No. 1 priority will be addressing a starting rotation that saw 18 different pitchers start at least one game and that has two wide-open spots behind the trio of James Paxton, Felix Hernandez and Mike Leake.
However, the splashy move could come in the form of a hitter. 
After ranking last in the majors in OPS at both first base (.697 OPS) and in center field (.612 OPS), it won't be hard to find an upgrade at those two spots, with star-caliber players available in guys like Eric Hosmer, Carlos Santana and Lorenzo Cain.
Regardless, expect general manager Jerry Dipoto to be busy once again. There's enough talent in place that they might be one or two pieces away from finally getting over the hump.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 25
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The Milwaukee Brewers occupied the No. 25 spot in my Opening Day power rankings, so their run at a playoff spot was surprising, to say the least.
The starting rotation exceeded even the wildest expectations behind the unheralded trio of Chase Anderson (12-4, 2.74 ERA), Jimmy Nelson (12-6, 3.49 ERA) and Zach Davies (17-9, 3.90 ERA), and the bullpen rounded into form around All-Star closer Corey Knebel.
Meanwhile, the offense slugged 224 home runs—tops in the NL—thanks to breakout seasons from Travis Shaw, Domingo Santana and Eric Thames.
Despite making a run at a wild-card berth, the team's long-term plans remain unchanged. 
They're building toward a bright future as a sustainable contender and they'll continue to incorporate young talent from a deep farm system.
Re-signing Neil Walker as a stopgap at second base makes sense and they could use a veteran bullpen arm or two, but for the most part, it will be about the continued development of the incumbent talent.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 9
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
A disappointing 2017 season could be motivation for the St. Louis Cardinals to make some significant moves this offseason.
With Trevor Rosenthal recovering from Tommy John surgery and likely to be non-tendered, the top priority will be adding a proven closer to the back of the bullpen. Signing Wade Davis away from the rival Cubs would only make his addition that much sweeter.
Lance Lynn will likely head for greener pastures in free agency, and young right-handers Luke Weaver and Jack Flaherty could both break camp with spots in the rotation next year. 
Top prospect Alex Reyes will be the X-factor on the staff once he returns from Tommy John surgery. Expect him to be brought along slowly, likely in a relief role to start out, but he can make a major impact.
It's the offense where we could see sweeping changes.
Adding a true middle-of-the-order bat and unclogging the outfield logjam would give the roster a decidedly different look.
Team president John Mozeliak didn't hide the fact that he was disappointed with the team's performance during the season, and now it's up to him to make the necessary changes.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 17
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The Colorado Rockies made a 12-win improvement and reached the NL Wild Card Game thanks in large part to a vastly improved pitching staff.
A young starting rotation that featured four rookies—Kyle Freeland, Antonio Senzatela, German Marquez and Jeff Hoffman—and a budding ace in 25-year-old Jon Gray will only get better in the years to come.
It's the relief corps that needs to be the focus of the offseason.
After improving from 30th (5.13) to 16th (4.59) in bullpen ERA, the team stands to lose a number of notable relief arms as Greg Holland (61 G, 41/45 SV, 3.61 ERA), Jake McGee (62 G, 20 HLD, 3.61 ERA) and deadline-addition Pat Neshek (71 G, 23 HLD, 1.59 ERA) are all free agents. 
There's too much good, young talent on this team for a leaky bullpen to be their undoing, and addressing that will start with either re-signing Holland or finding another proven closer to slot in the ninth inning.
Re-signing catcher Jonathan Lucroy to anchor the pitching staff also looks like a smart move.
Otherwise, this remains a team on the rise and the eventual arrival of top prospect Brendan Rodgers will make an already potent offense even more dangerous.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 13
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
New York Yankees fans won't like seeing the team ranked below the rival Boston Red Sox after it reached the ALCS, but this is about looking ahead.
There's little doubt the Yankees exceeded expectations in 2017 and now there are some major questions to answer in the starting rotation before they can be considered AL East favorites.
That starts with Masahiro Tanaka and whether he decides to opt out of the final three years and $67 million on his current deal. 
With CC Sabathia also reaching free agency, the Yankees could be looking at a rotation of Luis Severino, Sonny Gray, Jordan Montgomery and a pair of "to be determined" slots.
There's obviously money to spend, but with one eye still firmly fixed on the 2018-19 free-agent class, it remains to be seen whether they'll be willing to loosen the purse strings this winter for the sake of the short term.
Prospect Chance Adams could be a factor and Shohei Otani will see his name tied to the Yankees aplenty as he potentially makes his way over from Japan. Still, there are enough questions surrounding the starting staff to keep the Yankees from ranking any higher for the time being.
But if we're talking about a three-year outlook, the rest of league should be awfully scared of the Yankees.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 19
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The Arizona Diamondbacks are the real deal.
After a disastrous 93-loss showing in 2016, they added a whopping 24 wins and took down the Rockies in the NL Wild Card Game before getting swept by the Dodgers in the NLDS.
The starting rotation was by far the biggest difference.
Behind a resurgent Zack Greinke, emerging ace Robbie Ray, newcomer Taijuan Walker and out-of-nowhere standout Zack Godley, the team managed to go from 29th (5.19) to third (3.61) in starters' ERA.
The full rotation returns intact, so the focus on the pitching side will be deciding whether setup man Archie Bradley will replace free agent Fernando Rodney in the closer's role of if another late-inning arm will be added. 
The biggest decision is how much to spend trying to re-sign slugger J.D. Martinez.
The 30-year-old was nothing short of ridiculous in his short time with the team, posting a 1.107 OPS with 29 home runs and 65 RBI in 62 games.
With the window to make a title push wide-open and no other glaring needs, it's worth a nine-figure deal to keep him around.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 3
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
Despite winning the AL East title, it was a disappointing season for the Boston Red Sox.
The retirement of David Ortiz took a bigger bite out of the club's offensive attack than expected as it slipped to 10th in runs per game (4.85) and 22nd in OPS (.736) after leading the majors in those categories in 2016.
They also dropped from ninth to 27th in home runs (208 to 168) and adding a power bat figures to be atop the offseason to-do list.
First baseman Mitch Moreland is a free agent so that's an obvious potential area to upgrade, while the team could also pursue someone like J.D. Martinez with the intention of using him at DH and moving Hanley Ramirez back to first base. 
As for the pitching staff, healthy seasons from David Price, Steven Wright, Tyler Thornburg and Carson Smith would make a major difference without the team making any significant outside additions.
This is still a talented roster and with money to spend in free agency and some potential in-house help coming as well, they look to be in a good position to improve on 2017.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 1
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The casual baseball fan might not appreciate just how difficult it is to repeat as World Series champions.
In the end, the Chicago Cubs were beaten by a better team when they fell to the Los Angeles Dodgers in five games in the NLCS.
Despite falling short of repeating, this team is still as well-positioned for short- and long-term success as any in baseball.
The starting rotation will need to be addressed with Jake Arrieta and John Lackey both reaching free agency, and Alex Cobb has been a popular early speculative fit due to his previous experience playing for Joe Maddon and new pitching coach Jim Hickey.
Just as important will be reworking a bullpen that completely imploded in October. 
Closer Wade Davis is a free agent and it will cost a pretty penny to bring him back, but that might be a necessary evil. Regardless, expect to see at least a few new faces in the bullpen.
The midseason trade for Jose Quintana was a great forward-thinking move, and another blockbuster deal for a controllable arm could be coming this winter. This time around, it could cost MLB talent.
There's no reason not to trust Theo Epstein and Co. to continue reshaping this roster.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 6
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
No team will be more motivated to win a title in 2018 than the Washington Nationals.
Bryce Harper, Daniel Murphy and Gio Gonzalez are all staring down free agency after the upcoming season, and it's long been a foregone conclusion that Harper will be taking his talents elsewhere once he hit the open market.
That means it's World Series or bust. 
As far as the club's offseason approach, it will likely be more about tinkering than splashy additions and there's a fairly complete roster already in place.
The No. 5 spot in the starting rotation is a hole if prospect Erick Fedde doesn't seize the job, and the bullpen—while still vastly improved—will be losing some key arms in Matt Albers, Brandon Kintzler and Oliver Perez.
Still, a healthy Adam Eaton figures to outweigh any outside additions after he played just 23 games in 2017.
It's fair to say few first-year managers have inherited a better team than the one Dave Martinez is taking over.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 2
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The Cleveland Indians were the best team in baseball during the regular season.
Unfortunately, that doesn't carry much weight once the postseason starts and they were ousted by the New York Yankees in the ALDS.
While it wasn't the encore performance to winning the AL pennant that fans were hoping for, they will once again be among the teams to beat in 2018.
The league's best pitching staff returns essentially intact—the one notable exception being workhorse reliever Bryan Shaw, who has appeared in an MLB-high 378 games in his five seasons with the Indians.
On the offensive side of things, the front office has tough decisions to make with a pair of franchise stalwarts.
First baseman Carlos Santana is a free agent, and oft-injured outfielder Michael Brantley has an $11 million option that carries a $1 million buyout. 
Deadline addition Jay Bruce is also a free agent and he looks like a prime candidate to be re-signed if one or both of Santana and Brantley are cut loose.
At the end of the day, there's no reason to think the Indians will be anything but World Series contenders once again in 2018, regardless of what they do this offseason.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 4
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
The Los Angeles Dodgers aren't going anywhere.
Making it to the World Series and losing is always tough to swallow and that goes double for a hard-fought, seven-game series, but this team is stacked for the foreseeable future and has a level of financial freedom that few other clubs can match.
Starter Yu Darvish and relievers Brandon Morrow and Tony Watson are the key free agents, and there's a good chance all three will be playing elsewhere in 2018.
The team doesn't need to add a starter to replace Darvish, with Clayton Kershaw, Rich Hill, Kenta Maeda, Alex Wood, Hyun-Jin Ryu, Julio Urias, Scott Kazmir, Brock Stewart and prospect Walker Buehler all returning as rotation options. 
The bigger focus figures to be on restocking the bullpen around closer Kenley Jansen and perhaps adding a power bat in left field.
A trade for Giancarlo Stanton is one intriguing possibility that will be talked about plenty, and a run at free agent J.D. Martinez is another possibility.
Just like with the Nationals and Indians, this team could more or less stand pat this offseason and still be considered a title contender.
They won't, though.

2017 Opening Day Rank: 5
2017 Team Stats
    
Offseason Outlook
Congratulations to the Houston Astros!
Get used to seeing them in October.
After several agonizing years with 100-plus losses and seemingly never-ending talk centered around the word "rebuilding" everything came to fruition Thursday night.
And the way this roster is built, they're far from a flash in the pan.
The only players on the World Series roster who won't be back next season—assuming they sign elsewhere in free agency—will be Carlos Beltran, Luke Gregerson, Francisco Liriano and Cameron Maybin.
The other 21 guys are all under team control. 
Sorting out bullpen roles and deciding on who follows Justin Verlander and Dallas Keuchel in the starting rotation will be among the biggest offseason decisions, and the front office can afford to splurge on some bullpen help if it sees fit.
The bigger focus could be on trying to extend some core pieces, including Keuchel, who will be a free agent following the 2018 season.
There's still plenty of talent down on the farm if an inticing blockbuster deal presents itself, and with a middle-of-the-pack payroll, there's money to spend.
But even with a quiet offseason, this looks like the most complete team in baseball and they should have a very real chance of repeating as champs.
     
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs, unless otherwise noted. Opening Day ranks refer to this article.



Following a classic World Series that went the distance, the Houston Astros and Los Angeles Dodgers are co-favorites to win it all in 2018.
According to OddsShark, they have been installed as plus-500 (5-1) favorites.
Houston defeated L.A. in Wednesday's Game 7, 5-1, to win its first championship in franchise history.
Among the top seven choices to win the 2018 World Series, all reached at least the American League or National League Division Series in 2017.
Following Houston and Los Angeles, the Cleveland Indians are 8-1, the Washington Nationals are 10-1, and the New York Yankees, Boston Red Sox and Chicago Cubs are all at 11-1.
Fun fact: Houston lost at least 100 games in each of the 2011, 2012 and 2013 seasons. The Astros now have a young and talented core in place spearheaded by second baseman Jose Altuve, shortstop Carlos Correa, third baseman Alex Bregman and World Series MVP George Springer.
Provided starting pitchers Dallas Keuchel and Justin Verlander continue to perform, there could be several more titles in Houston's future.
The Dodgers haven't won a World Series since 1988, but it can be argued they have the most complete team in baseball despite falling just short Wednesday.
L.A. has a young, stacked lineup led by Cody Bellinger, Corey Seager, Yasiel Puig, Chris Taylor and Justin Turner.
It also boasts a top-flight rotation anchored by Clayton Kershaw, Rich Hill and Alex Wood, which should go a long way toward securing a sixth consecutive NL West title.
There hasn't been a World Series rematch since the Yankees and Dodgers clashed in both 1977 and 1978, but Houston and L.A. have the makeup needed to end that drought.



The Houston Astros won their first World Series in team history thanks to a 5-1 win over the Los Angeles Dodgers in Game 7 of the Fall Classic on Wednesday night.
This was one of the wildest (and best) World Series in recent memory, dominated by home runs, close contests and dramatic twists and turns.
Here's look at the top five stars, stats and highlights from the 2017 Fall Classic.
         
Top Stars           
5. Houston Astros Pitcher Brad Peacock
The starter-turned-postseason relief pitcher tossed an 11-out save in Game 3 to shut the door on a 5-3 victory. He struck out four and allowed just one baserunner (via walk). Brad Peacock also threw two shutout innings in Game 7.
                
4. Houston Astros 3rd Baseman Alex Bregman
The 23-year-old made the hot corner position look easy with some fantastic glove work throughout the entire season. Alex Bregman was also great at the plate, most notably when he ended the wild Game 5 with a 10th-inning RBI single.
          
3. Houston Astros Pitcher Charlie Morton
Charlie Morton pitched brilliantly in a series dominated by offensive fireworks. He tossed 6.1 innings of one-run ball in Game 4 while striking out seven before earning the win with 4.1 frames in Game 7, allowing just one run while punching out four.
                    
2. Los Angeles Dodgers Outfielder Joc Pederson
The 25-year-old led the Dodgers in home runs in the World Series, smacking three. Joc Pederson's ninth-inning shot in Game 4 helped seal a 6-2 victory, and he also hit a solo shot in a 3-1 Game 6 win.
                            
1. Houston Astros Outfielder George Springer
Who else would be No. 1 besides the World Series MVP? George Springer hit five home runs (a World Series record), including one each in the last four games. Notably, Springer hit a two-run shot in the 10th inning of Game 2 to help give the Astros a 7-6 win. His homer in Game 7 gave the Astros some insurance runs.
                                
Top Stats
25: Number of Home Runs
The Astros hit 15 home runs, while the Dodgers smacked 10 over the course of the seven-game series. Seven players had two or more dingers.
                   
119: Number of Strikeouts
The on-field play in Major League Baseball has been characterized by home runs and strikeouts this year, and the World Series was no exception.
         
4: Number of Stolen Bases
Remarkably, very few players tried to swap the extra bag in this series. Through Game 6, only two players successfully stole a base. In Game 7, Jose Altuve and Bregman each took one for the Astros.
                  
2.28: Average Margin of Victory
Five of the seven World Series games ended in one- or two-run deficits. A sixth (Game 4) was tied at one in the last inning before the Dodgers broke it open with five runs. Game 7 was the only contest in which the deficit was more than two to begin the last inning.
                     
2:28 and 5:17: The Shortest and Longest Game Times
You can fit an entire baseball game within the time span between Game 1, which took less than two-and-a-half hours thanks to Clayton Kershaw's ace start, and Game 5, which took over five hours thanks to 25 runs. 
                  
5 Highlights
Chris Taylor Leadoff Home Run
Chris Taylor's solo shot gave Los Angeles a quick 1-0 lead in Game 1. A Justin Turner two-run dinger later broke a 1-1 tie in a series-opening 3-1 win.
CRUSHED! Chris Taylor gets the #WorldSeries going for the @Dodgers  https://t.co/n2N87qQ3XQ
                            
Marwin Gonzalez Hits a 9th-Inning Home Run, Sets Off Wild Chain of Events
As unexpected as it was to see outfielder Marwin Gonzalez hit a game-tying home run off ace Dodgers closer Kenley Jansen in Game 2, it was even more shocking to see five more long bombs thereafter. Houston won 7-6 in 11 innings.
.@marwingf9, how clutch are you?! #WorldSeries https://t.co/xPLfUtoNyB
             
Altuve Makes Fantastic Tag on Yasiel Puig at 2nd Base
The throw. The Tag. What a play. #WorldSeries https://t.co/App8SZ9a6W
The fielding play of the series goes to Jose Altuve, who did his best Stretch Armstrong impersonation to tag out the sliding Yasiel Puig in Game 3. It was a key play in a close game that Houston won 5-3.
                       
Alex Bregman Sends Everyone Home After Wild Game 5
Bregman ended one of the wildest World Series contests in league history with an RBI single to score pinch runner Derek Fisher in the 10th inning of the 13-12 Game 5 victory for the Astros.
WALKOFF! WHAT A GAME!

The @astros are 1 win away from a #WorldSeries title!  https://t.co/ekdFP6jKK7
            
Springer's 5 Home Runs
In a tense series, Springer seemed to always hit home runs at the most opportune times. His fifth and final one essentially capped his World Series MVP award, as it gave the Astros a 5-0 advantage in Game 7:
SPRINGER DINGER WOW! @astros take the 5-0 lead in the 2nd. #WorldSeries  https://t.co/UyUT4g3VXB



With the MLB offseason now officially underway, let's start things off right with a full preview of this year's free agents and notable trade candidates, as well as some predictions from our resident MLB experts.
Ahead is a position-by-position look at this year's free-agent class, a quick rundown of some teams that could be active sellers and predictions on where the market's top 15 players will land.
These five writers made up our panel of prognosticators:
Having five writers weigh in gave us plenty of different opinions, and in the end, we only had three consensus predictions among the 15 players.
It will be fun to look back in a few months to see who got the most picks right, but for now, here's our best guess at how this year's free-agent and trade markets will unfold this winter.

Catchers
This time last year, Jonathan Lucroy seemed likely to surpass the five-year, $82 million deal that Russell Martin inked with the Toronto Blue Jays. A down season offensively (84 OPS+) will keep that from happening, but his receiving skills and track record still make him the top backstop on the market and a safe bet for a multiyear deal.
Alex Avila (119 OPS+, 14 HR) and Chris Iannetta (114 OPS+, 17 HR) both quietly had terrific seasons at the plate and could be given starting jobs, while Nick Hundley has averaged 18 doubles and 10 home runs over 330 plate appearances the past five seasons.
Welington Castillo (115 OPS+, 20 HR) is the X-factor on the catching market. He has a $7 million player option that will likely be declined.
Veterans Rene Rivera, Miguel Montero, Carlos Ruiz, A.J. Ellis, Ryan Hanigan and Jose Lobaton are all available as backup options.
      
First Basemen
Eric Hosmer picked a good time to post a career-best .882 OPS while slugging 25 home runs and driving in 94 runs. Those numbers, coupled with the fact that he just turned 28 years old, should mean a hefty payday that could eclipse $100 million if some of the big-market clubs get involved.
On-base machine Carlos Santana has 30-homer power to go along with his .365 career on-base percentage, and he's become an average defensive first baseman to boot.
Logan Morrison (135 OPS+, 38 HR) and Yonder Alonso (133 OPS+, 28 HR) could both receive multiyear interest after breakout offensive seasons, while Mitch Moreland (99 OPS+, 22 HR, 10 DRS) once again provided 20-homer pop and plus defense on a one-year, $5.5 million deal.
Mark Reynolds, Lucas Duda, Mike Napoli, John Jaso and Danny Valencia make up the best of the rest.
     
Second Basemen
It's a thin second base market behind Neil Walker, who will likely have to take a pay cut after earning $17.2 million last year on a qualifying offer
The 32-year-old posted an .843 OPS with 12 extra-base hits and 13 RBI in 38 games after clearing waivers and being traded to the Brewers in August to help give his stock a shot in the arm. Don't rule out a reunion in Milwaukee.
Aging stars Brandon Phillips and Chase Utley will also be available, as well as Howie Kendrick, who has actually seen more time in left field than at second base in recent years.
     
Shortstops
Will the Reds give Zack Cozart a qualifying offer?
A career year offensively (141 OPS+, 24 HR) and his usual solid defense added up to a 4.9 WAR, but the list of teams looking for a starting shortstop is short.
Unless someone like the San Diego Padres or Kansas City Royals is willing to pony up, a return to Cincinnati still makes the most sense.
Light-hitting Alcides Escobar, veteran Erick Aybar and utility man Adam Rosales are the alternatives.
     
Third Basemen
Mike Moustakas turned 29 in September, and he set a franchise record with 38 home runs, but he doesn't have the elite earning power that some might expect.
That gaudy home run total was accompanied by a subpar .314 on-base percentage, and he graded out as a below-average defender (-8 DRS, -3.6 UZR/150) at the hot corner. He'll easily get multiple years and $15 million-plus annually, but he's not headed for a $100 million megadeal.
Meanwhile, Todd Frazier and Eduardo Nunez both represent intriguing alternatives.
Frazier still has 30-homer power, a good glove and a great clubhouse presence, and he could be a candidate for a one-year deal to try to rebuild his stock.
Nunez brings 30-steal speed, some sneaky pop and the defensive versatility to play all over the infield and some outfield. He's a fit on any team, and not necessarily with third base as his primary destination.
Yunel Escobar, Trevor Plouffe, Jhonny Peralta and Jose Reyes are also available.
     
Corner Outfielders
The corner outfield market features J.D. Martinez (166 OPS+, 45 HR, 104 RBI) at the top, Jay Bruce (115 OPS+, 36 HR, 101 RBI) a tier below him and then a steep drop-off to everyone else.
Martinez and Bruce are both strong candidates to re-sign with the teams they joined late in the 2017 season via trade, as the Arizona Diamondbacks and Cleveland Indians both make sense as long-term destinations.
Beyond those two, it's the likes of Curtis Granderson, Melky Cabrera, Seth Smith, Nori Aoki and one-year, prove-it deal candidate Carlos Gonzalez who headline the remaining crop of corner bats.
The Justin Upton opt-out decision also has to be taken into consideration with this group.
     
Center Fielders
After a down 2016 season, Lorenzo Cain rebounded to hit .300/.363/.440 while stealing 26 bases and playing solid defense (5 DRS, 2.4 UZR/150) on his way to a 5.3 WAR.
Even entering his age-32 season and with skills that might not age particularly well, he could wind up landing a five-year deal from a team that views him as the missing piece to win now.
Carlos Gomez was limited to 105 games, but he posted an .802 OPS with 23 doubles and 17 home runs in 426 plate appearances, and that could be enough for him to find a multiyear deal after settling for a one-year pact last winter.
Defense and speed continue to drive Jarrod Dyson's value, and he was quietly a 2.6 WAR player with the Mariners. He fits best as a fourth outfielder but could find a starting center field gig in a thin market.
Austin Jackson, Jon Jay and Cameron Maybin all enjoyed productive seasons and should have no problem finding at least platoon playing time.

Right-Handed Starters
The right-handed starting pitching market is headlined by two huge questions: Will Shohei Ohtani be posted and will Masahiro Tanaka opt out of his contract?
Those two would join Yu Darvish and Jake Arrieta as the front-line options available to this year's free-agent shoppers. Regardless, expect Darvish and Arrieta to land deals north of $100 million.
It's the second-tier arms that carry the intrigue.
Alex Cobb proved healthy on the heels of Tommy John surgery, and he joins Lance Lynn as a safe bet for at least four years and an annual salary north of $15 million.
Riskier options with middle-of-the-rotation upside include Andrew Cashner, Tyler Chatwood and Jeremy Hellickson.
The low-cost market includes Jhoulys Chacin, Trevor Cahill, Doug Fister, Miguel Gonzalez, Scott Feldman and Chris Tillman, while the retirement decisions of John Lackey, Bartolo Colon and R.A. Dickey will also be a factor.
     
Left-Handed Starters
It's slim pickings for teams looking to add a lefty starter.
Jaime Garcia pitched well enough to be traded twice in July, and he topped 150 innings for a second straight season, which should get him multiple years as a middle-of-the-rotation option.
Veteran CC Sabathia proved he had something left in the tank by going 14-5 with a 3.69 ERA during the season and 1-1 with a 2.37 ERA and .216 opponents' batting average in four postseason starts, but he's 37 years old and will likely have to settle for a one-year deal.
All-Star Jason Vargas was terrific in the early going, but he crashed back to earth with a 6.66 ERA and 1.61 WHIP over his final 16 starts.
Hector Santiago, Brett Anderson, Francisco Liriano, Derek Holland and Tommy Milone will also be looking for new homes, and they'll likely be joined by Wade Miley, who has a $12 million option that carries a $500,000 buyout.

Right-Handed Relievers
Unlike last offseason when Aroldis Chapman, Kenley Jansen and Mark Melancon all cashed in with huge free-agent deals, the market for proven closers is decidedly thin this winter.
Wade Davis is the best of the bunch by a wide margin, and he should have no trouble topping the four-year, $62 million deal that Melancon got as a result, even with some injury concerns.
Greg Holland (41/45 SV, 3.61 ERA) and Fernando Rodney (39/45 SV, 4.23 ERA) both spent the season closing for playoff teams, while Brandon Kintzler (29/35 SV, 3.03 ERA) and Matt Belisle (9/14 SV, 4.03 ERA) split duties for the surprise Twins.
Pat Neshek was an All-Star; Addison Reed is one of the game's elite setup relievers, and he also has 125 career saves to his credit; and Bryan Shaw leads the majors with 378 appearances over the past five seasons while posting a 3.11 ERA and 1.19 WHIP.
Brandon Morrow and Anthony Swarzak came out of nowhere to emerge as reliable late-inning arms and strong candidates for a multiyear deal.
Juan Nicasio, Luke Gregerson, Tyler Clippard, Matt Albers, Steve Cishek, Sergio Romo, Joaquin Benoit and David Hernandez should all be able to secure MLB deals.
     
Left-Handed Relievers
Jake McGee (62 G, 20 HLD, 3.61 ERA, 9.1 K/9) and Tony Watson (71 G, 14 HLD, 3.38 ERA, 7.2 K/9) represent the top tier of the southpaw reliever market.
Both could surpass the four-year, $30.5 million deal that Brett Cecil signed with the Cardinals last offseason, especially considering the lack of other options.
Mike Minor (65 G, 17 HLD, 2.55 ERA, 10.2 K/9) and Brian Duensing (68 G, 13 HLD, 2.74 ERA, 8.8 K/9) should also be able to secure multiyear pacts after last winter saw Marc Rzepczynski sign a two-year, $11 million deal with the Mariners.
Oliver Perez, Jorge De La Rosa, Fernando Abad and Francisco Liriano—provided he doesn't find a starting gig—will also be candidates for MLB deals.

Cincinnati Reds
The Reds are already a few years along in the rebuilding process, and they could be looking to deal once again this winter.
Relievers Raisel Iglesias, Michael Lorenzen and Wandy Peralta would all generate significant interest if shopped, and center fielder Billy Hamilton still brings elite speed and defense to the table, despite his offensive shortcomings.
      
Detroit Tigers
With a rebuild now officially underway, the Tigers will be looking to unload any remaining veteran talent this offseason.
That could include the middle infield tandem of Ian Kinsler and Jose Iglesias, who are both headed for free agency after the 2018 season.
If they decide to take it one step further, young starter Michael Fulmer and standout reliever Shane Greene with his team control through the 2020 season would both fetch a sizeable return.
     
Miami Marlins
The new ownership group is looking to trim the payroll to $90 million and will be actively shopping Giancarlo Stanton, Dee Gordon and Martin Prado as a result, according to Barry Jackson of the Miami Herald.
Relievers Brad Ziegler and Junichi Tazawa will also be dangled again, and starter Edinson Volquez could carry some value in a thin market.
Whether they'll go all-in on rebuilding and also shop the likes of Marcell Ozuna, Christian Yelich, J.T. Realmuto and Dan Straily is unclear.
     
Oakland Athletics
Executive vice president Billy Beane didn't mince words when it came to committing the Athletics to a full rebuild in the years to come, and the decision to trade Sonny Gray only furthered that sentiment.
While there are no obvious big-money veterans to unload, it's worth testing the market on slugger Khris Davis and young starters Sean Manaea and Kendall Graveman.
Veteran utility man Jed Lowrie will likely have his reasonable $6 million team option exercised in favor of a $1 million buyout, but that doesn't mean he won't be moved shortly thereafter.

Masahiro Tanaka, New York Yankees
It was an up-and-down season for Masahiro Tanaka, but he finished it on a high note.
After tossing seven shutout innings and striking out a career-high 15 in his final start of the regular season, he went 2-1 with a 0.90 ERA and 0.65 WHIP in three playoff starts.
Opting out now would mean leaving three years and $67 million on the table.
Even amid ongoing concerns about the stability of his partially torn UCL and after some inconsistent results during his 2017 campaign, he should be able to land a five-year deal and more guaranteed money—even if he doesn't quite match that annual salary.
Will He Opt Out: Yes: 4, No: 1
     
Justin Upton, Los Angeles Angels
Justin Upton posted a career-low .775 OPS in the first season of a six-year, $132.5 million deal with the Tigers, but he bounced back with one of the best seasons of his career in 2017.
He was traded to the Angels in August, and he made a strong impression in his brief time with the team, posting an .887 OPS with seven home runs and 15 RBI in 27 games.
All told, he finished the season with a .901 OPS, 35 home runs and 109 RBI while also putting up strong defensive metrics (8 DRS, 3.5 UZR/150) on his way to an impressive 5.7 WAR.
He's still only 30 years old and should be able to top the four years and $88.5 million left on his current deal. Even if he does opt out, expect the Angels to make a strong push to bring him back.
Will He Opt Out: Yes: 5, No: 0

Gould (Dodgers): A disastrous World Series start from Yu Darvish could prompt the Dodgers to pivot to Arrieta, who was wild but effective in his postseason turns.
     
Knobler (Dodgers): A pitcher with great stuff who spent time on the disabled list? The Dodgers always seem to see that as a perfect fit.
     
Reuter (Phillies): After a disappointing season that didn't result in the step forward many were anticipating, expect the Phillies to be more aggressive this winter. Adding a proven front-line starter to slot alongside Aaron Nola in the rotation would go a long way, and Arrieta has already been a key part of one successful rebuild.
     
Rymer (Phillies): This might be a long shot, but they should be thinking about using their deep pockets to kick-start their rebuild. Their rotation, which could use a steady veteran, is a good spot for a sizable investment.
     
Shafer (Angels): With a depleted farm system, the Angels' only hope of getting Mike Trout back to the postseason and challenging the Dodgers for attention and eyeballs in Southern California is via free agency. Arrieta joining Garrett Richards atop the rotation would be as flashy as it would be expensive.

Gould (Red Sox): The Red Sox need a power bat, and Bruce has hit at least 25 homers in seven of the last eight seasons. He would have to move to first base—where he logged some reps for the Mets in 2017—or designated hitter, but he would remain in the heart of the playoff picture.
     
Knobler (Phillies): They reportedly chased him last winter when it would have taken a trade with the Mets. Seems like a fit as a respected veteran to go with their rebuilding team.
     
Reuter (Indians): Whether he's signed as a replacement for Carlos Santana in the first base platoon or as an insurance policy for Michael Brantley in the outfield, bringing back Bruce makes plenty of sense for the Indians.
     
Rymer (Blue Jays): They're a candidate to bounce back in 2018 even if they do nothing, and signing Bruce to fill Jose Bautista's shoes in right field would be a nice boost.
     
Shafer (Indians): It's easy to forget after their disappointing division-series exit, but Bruce injected life and veteran leadership into the Indians lineup after coming over from the Mets. He won't get the Tribe over the long-delayed championship hump by himself, but the residual good vibes could lead to a reunion.

Gould (Mariners): Seattle needs another starting outfielder, and the franchise showed a penchant for strong defenders last offseason. After finishing No. 23 in OPS against lefties, the squad can also use the Gold Glove finalist's platoon split to balance out a lineup with plenty of pop.
     
Knobler (Rangers): The Royals seem to have other priorities. The Rangers have reportedly wanted him in the past and tend to like adding good athletes.
     
Reuter (Rangers): Make no mistake: The Rangers' biggest need is pitching. However, signing a couple of midlevel starters and adding Cain as a defensive upgrade in center field and strong on-base presence could be the preferred offseason approach.
     
Rymer (Giants): No team needs a defensive upgrade in center field as badly as the Giants.
     
Shafer (Rangers): The Rangers will try to return to relevance in the AL West and the Lone Star State after watching the Astros' inspiring run. They'll need to spend on the rotation, but they could also use outfield reinforcements. Cain is on the wrong side of 30, yet he still grades as a plus center fielder on both sides of the ball.

Gould (Cubs): This pick is contingent on Arrieta signing elsewhere. Although Cobb is not a perfect replacement, moving from the AL East to the NL Central behind a flexible defense will help the ground-ball hurler.
     
Knobler (Cubs): If we assume Arrieta leaves, you have to figure the Cubs will be chasing starting pitching. And with ex-Rays pitching coach Jim Hickey already joining ex-Rays manager Joe Maddon on the North Side, Cobb would seem like a logical choice to follow them.
     
Reuter (Cubs): The fit makes too much sense. The Cubs need to plug holes in the rotation, and Cobb has a history with manager Joe Maddon and new pitching coach Jim Hickey. He won't come cheaply, but he'll be a bargain compared to what it would cost to re-sign Arrieta.
     
Rymer (Dodgers): He's a relatively affordable and unheralded starter with ties to Dodgers boss Andrew Friedman, who used to run the Tampa Bay Rays.
     
Shafer (Cubs): The Cubbies will need to buttress the rotation if Arrieta bolts, but they're probably unwilling to spend on a top-shelf starter. Cobb rates a tick below that level but is an intriguing option after successfully returning from Tommy John surgery.

Gould (Reds): Cincinnati could not find a taker during the summer, as most spenders and contenders are set at shortstop. As a result, Cozart stays put for a relatively team-friendly deal.
     
Knobler (Reds): Hard to imagine the market will be that strong after the Reds weren't able to trade him at midseason (at least not for what they could get back). They've said they're willing to explore a new deal, so maybe that happens.
     
Reuter (Reds): I just don't see an obvious fit anywhere else. The Padres and Royals won't want to spend the money, and Ketel Marte showed enough down the stretch that he's earned his shot with the Diamondbacks. Who else has a clear need at shortstop?
     
Rymer (Diamondbacks): They established themselves as contenders in 2017. Now they should push the envelope by patching their shortstop weakness with one of the more underrated shortstops in the game.
     
Shafer (Royals): The Royals might lose numerous stars to free agency. If Cain, Hosmer and/or Moustakas depart, Cozart and his 5.0 fWAR would be a fine consolation prize. Plus, in a less-than-robust market for shortstops, he may come at a (relative) bargain.

Gould (Rangers): Aroldis Chapman didn't hold a midseason trade against the Yankees last year. The Rangers desperately need pitching, so Darvish returns to his former team for a huge raise.
     
Knobler (Mariners): He's never won at Safeco and has a 5.79 ERA in four starts there, but Seattle always figures as a desired landing spot for a Japanese pitcher.
     
Reuter (Mariners): I'm stuck on the idea of the Mariners making an early push to sign Darvish and then using him to help recruit Shohei Otani. I'm not convinced it will work, but the Mariners need pitching regardless, and general manager Jerry Dipoto is willing to spend to snap that postseason drought.
     
Rymer (Rangers): There didn't seem to be any hard feelings when the two sides parted ways in July. Besides which, Texas' rotation sorely needs strikeouts.
     
Shafer (Astros): The 'Stros have officially moved into the realm of MLB's elite. Sure, they took on Justin Verlander's contract at the trade deadline and also have Dallas Keuchel. Shelling out for Darvish seems like a stretch. With a homegrown core and a strong headwind, though, look for management to open the purse strings.

Gould (Cardinals): Juan Nicasio, Zach Duke and Seung-Hwan Oh are all free agents, and Trevor Rosenthal will miss most—if not all—of 2018 recovering from Tommy John surgery. In need of a major bullpen boost, the Cardinals poach a free agent from their NL Central rival for the second straight offseason.
     
Knobler (Cardinals): They took a leadoff man from the Cubs last winter. So why not take a closer from their rivals this time around?
     
Reuter (Cubs): Ideally, deadline-pickup Justin Wilson would have continued his strong season and convinced the Cubs' front office that he was capable of replacing Davis in the closer's role. That didn't happen—he posted a 5.09 ERA and walked 19 batters in 17.2 innings after joining the team in July—so expect the Cubs to make every effort to bring Davis back.
     
Rymer (Cubs): The Cubs can't afford to lose him from their bullpen. And now they have new pitching coach Jim Hickey, who worked with Davis in Tampa Bay, to help lure him back.
     
Shafer (Cubs): The Cubs' bullpen wobbled in the postseason, but Davis was solid overall and the Cubs don't have any can't-miss alternatives to replace him in the ninth inning. 

Gould (Blue Jays): The Blue Jays should commence a rebuild by trading Donaldson this winter, and the Cardinals pair perfectly with young pitching and lineup depth to offer. Yet a move will probably have to wait until July as Toronto tries to extend its contention window for one more season.
     
Knobler (Blue Jays): It probably makes the most sense to trade him in the final winter before free agency. But he has said he'd like to stay, and after drawing 3.2 million while nearly finishing in last place, ownership isn't going to want to alienate fans.
     
Reuter (Blue Jays): Tempting as it was to play contrarian, the Blue Jays will likely make one last attempt at contending with this group, and that means holding onto Donaldson. If they're out of it come July, he'll be the prize of the trade deadline.
     
Rymer (Blue Jays): They'll keep him around for a last hurrah in 2018.
     
Shafer (Blue Jays): If the Jays are basement-dwellers again next season, they could move Donaldson at the trade deadline, but no one will blow them away with a big enough offer to swap him this winter.

Gould (Royals): The Royals won't want to lose all of their top free agents, and retaining Hosmer appears to be their top priority. Although the Yankees and Red Sox could drive up his price, they shouldn't spark a bidding war for a first baseman with a career .781 OPS.
     
Knobler (Royals): They probably never thought they'd have a chance to keep him, and maybe it's still a long shot. But most of the biggest-money teams are already set at first base.
     
Reuter (Royals): With a weak farm system and little in the way of young, controllable assets to build around, giving Hosmer a $100 million-plus deal might not be in the Royals' best interest. It sounds like they're set on keeping him around, though.
     
Rymer (Royals): Kansas City is where he fits best, and it's not even close. In fact, it wouldn't be surprising if they brought him back for less than his initial asking price.
     
Shafer (Royals): Of all the Royals' free agents, the popular Hosmer is most likely to stick around, considering the market for first basemen won't be massive.

Gould (Phillies): The Phillies have a lot of money to spend and many innings to eat. Rather than swinging for the fences with Arrieta or Darvish, they bolster their rotation with Lynn and wait another year before making any major signings.
     
Knobler (Phillies): It's a good winter to be a free-agent starter, so Lynn should do well. The Phillies, with almost no certainty in their 2018 rotation, may be as desperate as anyone to upgrade.
     
Reuter (Rangers): One potential Rangers offseason script: They kick the tires on bringing back Yu Darvish but instead settle on signing Lorenzo Cain and Lance Lynn while also bringing back Andrew Cashner. Would that be enough to return to wild-card contention?
     
Rymer (Cubs): He'd be a cheaper, logical and potentially just as affective replacement for Arrieta.
     
Shafer (Rangers): Again, this is predicated on the assumption that the Rangers will be buying to get back to the playoffs. Lynn isn't Darvish, whom many Rangers fans would surely like to have back, but he's a solid mid-rotation option who won't break the bank.

Gould (Diamondbacks): Losing Martinez could hurt the Diamondbacks twofold if he flees to the Dodgers or Giants. He enjoyed his short time in Chase Field with 16 homers in 30 games, and durability and defensive concerns could keep the slugger in their price range.
     
Knobler (Diamondbacks): They saw the impact he made on their team after trading for him. Despite limits, they seem to be able to spend when they really want someone, and they should want to keep J.D.
     
Reuter (Diamondbacks): Don't underestimate the power of a budding bromance.
     
Rymer (Red Sox): The Red Sox need power. Martinez has lots of it. The fit isn't ideal beyond that, but the Red Sox could give him at-bats at DH, in either corner outfield spot and perhaps first base.
     
Shafer (Diamondbacks): The NL West-rival Giants could make a play, as could many other teams, but after what he did in a D-backs uni, it's tough to imagine Arizona not keeping Martinez in the desert.

Gould (Angels): Whether or not Justin Upton opts out, the Angels need another significant offensive upgrade. Moustakas is their best bet to bolster a subpar infield beyond Andrelton Simmons, and the Angels are typically not shy spenders.
     
Knobler (Angels): After watching the Dodgers play in the World Series against one of their AL West rivals, the Angels should be motivated to make a move this winter. Having grown up in Southern California, Moustakas would likely be happy to listen.
     
Reuter (Angels): Regardless of what happens with Justin Upton and his opt-out clause, the offense-needy Angels look like a perfect match for Moustakas. The club's third basemen ranked 25th in the majors in OPS (.713), and its left-handed batters were even worse (.689 OPS, 30th in MLB).
     
Rymer (Cardinals): They need a power bat to help them catch up in the NL Central, and third base is a good place to put one.
     
Shafer (Giants): Pablo Sandoval's reunion with the Orange and Black did not go well, and San Francisco traded speedy Eduardo Nunez to the Red Sox at the deadline. That leaves a gaping hole at third, which the retooling, punchless Giants may fill with Moustakas and his 38 dingers.

Gould (Yankees): International spending limit caps any spending advantage, but the Yankees can still recruit Otani with a big market and a young, loaded roster that will allow the two-way star to contend on a grand platform before exploring a truly unfettered market.
     
Knobler (Yankees): The rules won't allow them to use all their money to separate them, but they have New York and a strong team on the rise to offer. They also have a history with Japanese players (Matsui, Tanaka and more).
     
Reuter (Yankees): The Yankees knew how to market Hideki Matsui when he made the jump from Japan, and they'll be able to do the same with Otani. The Big Apple would provide the two-way star with ample endorsement opportunities to help offset the money he's leaving on the table by not waiting to come stateside.
     
Rymer (Yankees): Because it's frankly impossible to imagine a more perfect fit.
     
Shafer (Yankees): It won't be about the money for Otani, which means it will be about the prestige and opportunity to win. The up-and-coming Yankees and their pedigree/history/profile offer both. The only question is if they'll let him pitch and DH.

Gould (Indians): Santana is a huge piece to Cleveland's championship puzzle, and there's less risk of someone else overpaying with a deep first base market. While Boston also makes sense, Cleveland continues its title pursuit by retaining the consistent on-base fiend.
     
Knobler (Indians): They let Mike Napoli leave last winter and spent the money (and more) on Edwin Encarnacion. They might be more inclined to keep Santana.
     
Reuter (Red Sox): Mitch Moreland earned every penny of his one-year, $5.5 million deal, but the Red Sox will likely go in a different direction at first base. The switch-hitting Santana would provide some needed punch to a team that slipped from ninth to 27th in home runs.
     
Rymer (Indians): If they can't bring back Bruce, it would make a lot of sense to bring back Santana to continue serving in a DH/1B rotation with Edwin Encarnacion.
     
Shafer (Red Sox): If the Indians bring back Bruce, that may push Santana out. Enter the Red Sox, who could insert the slugger into the first base/DH mix.

Gould (Dodgers): Despite their deep pockets, the Dodgers tend to diversify their financial risks. They also have a higher budget than anyone and the prospects necessary to entice the Marlins if they want the California native.
     
Knobler (Giants): He has the power to say no to any deal, but as a California kid, how could he say no to San Francisco? The Giants could use the boost, and they have a little history with guys hitting home runs, don't they?
     
Reuter (Dodgers): Money is going to be the sticking point here, but the Dodgers won't bat an eye at the $285 million left on his contract, especially if taking the bulk of that money on limits the prospect talent they have to send the other way.
     
Rymer (Giants): Coming off a 59-homer season, Stanton would be a huge boost to an offense that just finished dead-last in MLB in homers. Making a trade work will be the tricky part, but it helps that the Giants aren't short on cash.
     
Shafer (Marlins): The consensus seems to be that Stanton will be traded by the Marlins' new ownership group. Maybe he will be, but because of the whopping size of his contract and the Fish's rich history of confounding, I'll bet it doesn't get done before Opening Day.
      
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.



Although their latest attempt was their best yet, the Los Angeles Dodgers still haven't cracked the code for how to bring home their first World Series championship since 1988.
There's a hulking Southern California native in Miami who looks like a missing variable. All the Dodgers have to do is go get him.
His name is Giancarlo Stanton, a right fielder who spent 2017 living a double life as a slugger of 59 home runs and as a living, breathing trade rumor. The soon-to-be 28-year-old will take a break from one of these lives during the offseason, but not from the other.
According to Barry Jackson and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald, new Miami Marlins owners Bruce Sherman and Derek Jeter want to get the club's payroll down to $90 million for 2018. That's no easy task, as it's roughly $40 million lower than their current projection.
Moving Stanton and the remainder of his 13-year, $325 million contract would go a long way toward doing the trick. But merely saying as much is the easy part.
Not too much has changed since the many parameters of a potential Stanton trade back were broken down on B/R in July. He's still owed $295 million over the next 10 years. His contract still contains an opt-out after 2020. And he still holds full no-trade rights.
All this amounts to one of the most immovable contracts in MLB. 
But thanks to none other than Stanton himself, it has become less immovable than it used to be.

Through July 4 of this year, he was sitting on an .870 OPS for the season and an .838 OPS since the start of 2016. Good numbers, to be sure—just not numbers befitting a player with the largest contract in sports history.
But then came the barrage.
In 78 games after July 5, Stanton tallied a 1.150 OPS and cranked 38 homers. This was the result of a mechanical change that allowed him to make more efficient use of his prodigious power. It may not have led to the hallowed grounds of 60 home runs, but it was nonetheless a historic season that cemented him as arguably (Aaron Judge says "hi") MLB's top slugger.
That makes the sheer size of his contract considerably less scary. Meanwhile, his no-trade clause is less a hurdle in reality than it is in theory.
Stanton has long been adamant his top priority is to play for a contender and that he has no interest in waiting for the Marlins to build one around him. As he told Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports in September: "I don't want to rebuild...I've lost for seven years."
Because MLB is a league of haves and have-nots, that narrows down the list of teams that might merit Stanton's approval. He was even willing to dish on a couple in a recent interview with Jimmy Kimmel, including his hometown team.
"I grew up a Dodgers fan, if that's where they want to go," said Stanton, who went to high school not far from Dodger Stadium at Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, California.
Do the Dodgers need Stanton? Well, they just won 104 regular-season games and came within one win of taking home the World Series. They are also set to return almost all the key players who made it happen. So "need" is a strong word.
But if nothing else, dealing for Stanton would allow the Dodgers to deny the enemy. It would keep him from the San Francisco Giants, whom Heyman rates as the early favorite for the slugger.
More to the point, Dodgers president of baseball operations Andrew Friedman and general manager Farhan Zaidi shouldn't perceive themselves to be in a position to leave good enough alone. What's there is good enough to get to the World Series. But it's evidently not good enough to win it.
If the Dodgers are going to upgrade this winter, they must prioritize their run production over their run prevention. Whereas they were first in the National League in runs allowed, they were only sixth in runs scored. Their offense couldn't measure up to the Houston Astros' offense in the World Series.
The outfield is the ideal place to target for upgrades, as it's most in danger of an offensive regression. Joc Pederson's weaknesses were exposed in 2017. Yasiel Puig outperformed his recent offensive track record. Chris Taylor drastically outperformed his entire offensive track record. Swapping out one of them for Stanton would greatly reduce the regression risk.
More so than his bat, a bigger complication is how the Dodgers might accommodate Stanton's contract.
They are no strangers to spending, having dropped over $1.2 billion on their five most recent Opening Day payrolls. But Bill Shaikin of the Los Angeles Times reported in November 2016 that the club is under an MLB mandate to cut its debt. To do so, they are expected to reduce their payroll to $200 million in 2018. As of now, they are projected for over $200 million.
Still, the Dodgers are one of the few teams with pockets deep enough for Stanton's contract. They also have some big contracts set to expire after 2018—those of Adrian Gonzalez, Scott Kazmir and Brandon McCarthy—that they could push on the Marlins to help offset the cost.
Failing that, Los Angeles might decide to push its payroll-cutting goal to 2019 and explore other trades with Miami.
One would be to dangle prospects from a farm system that B/R's Joel Reuter ranked at No. 9 in MLB. Another would be to base a trade around a young, controllable player who's already established. A Puig-for-Stanton swap might work. So might a Pederson-for-Stanton swap.
Because the Dodgers don't have the biggest need for Stanton, they won't be the team to beat when the sweepstakes heats up. Teams like the Giants, Boston Red Sox, St. Louis Cardinals and Philadelphia Phillies figure to be more aggressive suitors.
But the Dodgers are the team that others should be the most worried about. Because if they decide to go all-in for Stanton, their World Series code will be as good as cracked.
            
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Baseball Savant. Contract and payroll data courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.




Nothing ventured, nothing gained. As New York Yankees right-hander Masahiro Tanaka enters the most pivotal offseason of his MLB career, he'd do well to heed those four words.
Here's the part where some stomachs will turn. We're going to talk about a professional athlete choosing between being really rich and really, really, ridiculously rich. 
That's the reality of modern sports. It's a business, as players and executives alike constantly remind us, and business is booming.
Here's the situation for Tanaka: The New York Yankees right-hander has three years and $67 million remaining on his contract. He could ride it out and line his bank account with more money than you or I will ever see.
Or, he could pull the opt-out ripcord written into his deal and seek untold riches on the open market.

It's not a risk-free proposition. Tanaka may opt out only to find another, more lucrative offer isn't waiting for him. His 2017 stat line features glaring blemishes, as we'll delve into shortly.
It says here, however, Tanaka should take the plunge, leave the $67 million on the table and become an elite free agent. Yes, we said elite.
OK, first the case against Tanaka opting out.
While the burgeoning Yankees charged to within a game of the World Series, Tanaka endured easily his worst season since coming over from Japan.
He posted an MLB career-high 4.74 ERA and suffered through a few abysmal stretches, including the calendar month of May, when he coughed up 13 earned runs in 29.2 innings.
It was worth wondering if New York's former ace was legitimately broken.
"As far as it being one of the worst slumps in my career, I probably have to agree with that," Tanaka said in late May, per Fox Sports. "You have to grind it out. You can't put your head down."

He performed better in the second half, and finished the regular season on a crescendo by tallying 15 strikeouts in seven shutout innings Sept. 29 against the Toronto Blue Jays.
In the playoffs, meanwhile, he posted a 0.90 ERA across three starts with 18 strikeouts and three walks in 20 frames. By and large, he resembled the Tanaka of old.
A handful of stout outings don't erase a season of turmoil, but Tanaka boosted his stock.
Enough to net more than three years and $67 million from someone this winter?
Tanaka has logged 1,989.1 innings between MLB and Japan's Nippon Professional Baseball and has battled injuries, including a partially torn ulnar collateral ligament diagnosed in 2014.
He opted not to have Tommy John surgery at the time and hasn't needed it since, but that specter hangs over any long-term contract. 
On the other hand, he turned 29 Nov. 1. Age isn't a significant factor. And he'd be part of a free-agent crop that isn't bursting with aces.
Jake Arrieta won the National League Cy Young Award with the Chicago Cubs in 2015 but has endured ups and downs since.
Yu Darvish, another Japanese right-hander, missed the 2015 season due to Tommy John surgery and was knocked around in two World Series starts by the Houston Astros. 
Both Arrieta and Darvish will command $100 million-plus contracts anyway, make no mistake. But neither is without warts, and they're clearly at the head of the 2017-18 class. Consider this, though: Tanaka is two years younger than Darvish and nearly three years younger than Arrieta.
Which pitcher would you commit payroll-depleting years and dollars to? The fact that it's a tough choice says it all.

Tanaka has until Saturday to make his Hamlet-esque decision: to opt out or not to opt out.
If he does, he'll draw interest from an array of suitors. The Cubs could lose Arrieta. The Dodgers could wave goodbye to Darvish. Likewise, the Boston Red Sox, Texas Rangers, Los Angeles Angels and any number of other deep-pocketed franchises will be sniffing after starting pitching.
Given his spotty 2017 and the ever-present injury pall, Tanaka won't vault past the $200 million threshold crossed by the likes of David Price with Boston (cautionary tale) or Zack Greinke with the Arizona Diamondbacks (redemption tale).
He can expect more dough than what's left on his Yanks contract, however—and he may get it from the Yankees themselves. They remain top spenders, despite their recent commitment to youth and internal development, and there's uncertainty in the rotation behind Luis Severino and Sonny Gray.
Whatever uniform he dons in 2018, this is the offseason for Tanaka to be bold, to seek greater fortune and, yeah, turn a couple of stomachs. 
In this case, his venture could mean millions gained.
                  
All statistics and contract information courtesy of Baseball-Reference.



LOS ANGELES — Ten days ago, forget a title—the Houston Astros had never won so much as a World Series game since the year of their inception in 1962.
Then they stepped into Game 1 of this Fall Classic, led by their fearless and mostly flawless leadoff man George Springer...and Springer whiffed four times. He stunk up the place so badly he couldn’t have hit Los Angeles traffic if he exited the carpool lane. Debuts seldom go so wrong, even for D-list Hollywood actors.
That seems like, oh, 56 years ago now.
Forget the opening, but what a show. Once Springer and the Astros sprung to life, the Los Angeles Dodgers couldn't dodge them. Couldn't outrun, outslug or outpitch them, and by the time Houston polished off a 5-1 Game 7 rout before 54,124 in Dodger Stadium, they laid claim to a word they never before could.
"We are a championship city!" Houston manager A.J. Hinch exclaimed onstage during the championship presentation in front of an enormous throng of raucous Astros fans behind the first-base Houston dugout. "These players are always going to be called champions."
Springer, the World Series Most Valuable Player, bounced back from taking that Game 1 golden sombrero to hit .379 with three doubles, five homers, seven RBI and eight runs scored. His eight extra-base hits stand as a World Series record, surpassing Willie Stargell's seven in the 1979 Series. His five homers tied the New York Yankees' Reggie Jackson (1977) and the Philadelphia Phillies' Chase Utley (2009) as the most ever in a Fall Classic. And he became the first player ever to homer in four consecutive World Series games.
From zero to 80 mph in one game flat.
"Unbelievable!" Springer said.
What did the Astros do to pick him up after that rough Game 1?
"He was facing Clayton Kershaw," Astros catcher Brian McCann said. "He made his pitches that night. You tip your cap and move on. You turn the page."
His father, George Springer II, didn't see much of a need to speak with his son, either, following a Game 1 in which Kershaw fanned him three times and Los Angeles closer Kenley Jansen struck him out once.
"Didn't need to," Springer II said. "He knows how to turn the page. He understands it's a game. You pick yourself up, and you move forward. The sun always comes up. He's done it consistently."

It's fitting that what Springer did, really, was mirror the rise of these Astros. It wasn't long ago that they too were taking oh-fers and looking for new sunrises.
In November 2011, owner Jim Crane took possession of an aging roster and a broken organization that was stripped to the studs after it traded traded stars like Roy Oswalt, Hunter Pence and Michael Bourn under Drayton McLane. Crane hired Jeff Luhnow from the St. Louis Cardinals the next month. In the shadow of the national space program, what McLane did was akin to NASA tearing apart one of its rockets, boosters, engines and all, leaving the seat and starting over.
The Astros lost between 106 and 111 games each season from 2011 through 2013. What they did was master the art of tanking: conceding seasons in exchange for hoarding draft picks.
It was ugly, it was painful, and it was beyond chaotic. A lifelong member of the National League, Crane agreed to move his club to the American League in 2013 as a condition of purchasing it. An identity crisis hit hard, the losses piled up, and in 2014, there were days when the Astros charted a 0.0 television rating for some games.
"It was painful," Astros Hall of Famer Jeff Bagwell said, standing on the Dodger Stadium turf as the celebration howled around him. "When I left after '05, things started to go south. Then came the 100-loss seasons. It wears on the kids. It's no fun losing."
As one of those who played on Houston's only previous World Series team, the 2005 club that was swept by the Chicago White Sox, Bagwell took it personally.
"You don't want to go on losing all the time," he said. "Then you get Altuve, Springer, Correa, Dallas, Verlander, Yuli, Bregman. Everything Luhnow and the front office did to get this rolling...it's worked out right now."
Out of the darkness came, via the draft, Cy Young-winning pitcher Dallas Keuchel, World Series MVP George Springer, superstar shortstop Carlos Correa and superstar-in-waiting third baseman Alex Bregman.
Signed as international free agents were batting champion Jose Altuve and slugger Yuli Gurriel. Acquired at this year's August waivers trade deadline was ace pitcher Justin Verlander, who went 5-0 with a 1.06 ERA in five regular-season starts for the Astros and then 4-1 with a 2.21 ERA in the postseason.
The remnants of the tanking are still scattered about: This year's Astros, for example, drew 2.4 million fans, still down from the glory days of Bagwell and Craig Biggio, when they regularly drew around 3 million.
But by the time Verlander arrived, it was evident that this was as good a team as any in baseball and maybe the best. After the Astros clinched the AL West title Sept. 17, Verlander exclaimed in the celebration that this probably was the best team he's played on, raving about the club's athleticism, how every single position player in the lineup could scoot from first to third on a hit or score from second.

The ace was already a veteran of two losing World Series teams in Detroit in 2006 and 2012, and it was easy to think back to fearsome sluggers Miguel Cabrera and Victor Martinez who played station-to-station ball and ultimately fell short.
Now, as the Astros lined up for introductions in Yankee Stadium before Game 3 of the American League Championship Series, Carlos Beltran leaned over to McCann—a fellow Yankee turned Astro—along the baseline and quietly said, "You know we’re going to win the World Series. This team deserves it."
With that, Beltran gave McCann a hug, and off they went.
"This whole experience has been emotionally draining," a joyful McCann said. "Intense baseball that you don't get during the regular season.
"You can't play six months like this. You'd be crushed by May."
Game 7 didn't quite match the thrills and chills of some of the rest of this World Series. The Astros mugged Dodgers starter Yu Darvish for two runs in the first inning and three more in the second, including Springer's two-run homer that stamped the night with a feeling of inevitability. By game's end, Verlander and Keuchel were warming and ready in the bullpen, just in case.
"This was a dogfight, as hard a fought series...emotionally draining, physically draining," Springer said. "It took seven games. But the difference between us and them today was us scoring early. Being able put them on their heels early and not [let them] attack us was huge."
It was the first time two teams with 100 wins during the regular season met in a World Series since 1970, when the Baltimore Orioles and Cincinnati Reds dueled, and Wednesday night became even more dramatic. It was the first time two 100-win clubs met in Game 7 of the World Series since 1931, when the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Philadelphia Athletics.
The drama didn't last long, however, thanks to Darvish. Not only did the Astros beat the Dodgers on the field, but they also, in hindsight, whipped them at the trade table this summer when the Dodgers veered away from Verlander and focused on Darvish.
The Dodgers also never recovered from prematurely yanking starter Rich Hill in Game 2. He was cruising along with seven strikeouts in four innings when the Los Angeles analytic storm hit: No matter how well Hill was pitching, they were not going to allow him to face the Houston lineup a third time. That set off a chain reaction that wound up with Los Angeles using nine pitchers and being stuck with Brandon (Losing Pitcher) McCarthy on the mound in the 11th inning. McCarthy hadn't pitched in more than three weeks.
Instead of taking a two-games-to-none lead in the series, the Dodgers went to Houston with the series tied at one game each. And in Games 2, 3, 4 and 5 combined, the Dodgers ran through a stretch in which they used 25 pitchers in 35 innings. In Sunday's wild 13-12 Houston Game 5 win, the Dodgers blew a four-run lead, a three-run lead and a one-run lead.

"This was a great series between two 100-win teams, two great teams, two great offenses, two great defenses, two great pitching staffs," Springer said. "The wildness of this series, the wackiness of this series, the emotional ups and downs...being able to play in this was something I'll never forget."
Nor will anyone associated with the Astros or the city of Houston. Together, Springer and the Astros started in a hole, and together, they roared back by playing some of the best baseball you'll ever see.
"Incredible," Astros Hall of Famer Craig Biggio said, standing near his buddy Bagwell on the Dodger Stadium infield. "Watching the growing pains. We weren't good, we stocked up on No. 1 picks, and now you [see] them all over the field.
"From an organizational standpoint, from the city's standpoint, speaking as someone who lives in Texas...this is a big deal."
                      
Scott Miller covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report. Follow Scott on Twitter and talk baseball. 



The Los Angeles Dodgers came oh so close to winning their first World Series in 29 years. Close enough to touch it. Heck, close enough to taste it.
Instead, the only thing they're tasting is defeat.
The Houston Astros put the lid on the Dodgers coffin early in Wednesday's Game 7, jetting out to a 5-0 lead in the second inning. That turned the capacity crowd at Dodger Stadium from stoked to stunned, and then it was just a matter of pounding in the nails.
Seven innings and one Dodgers run later, the Astros did just that. They are World Series champions for the first time in their 56-year history.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN FRANCHISE HISTORY, THE #ASTROS ARE #WORLDSERIES CHAMPIONS! 

#EARNEDHISTORY https://t.co/lTo9MNqzVR
If there's any comfort in defeat for the Dodgers, it's that they lost to a worthy foe.
Nobody did better than the Dodgers' 104 wins in the regular season, but the Astros came close with 101 wins of their own. Their engine was one of the greatest offenses in Major League Baseball history. Led by series MVP George Springer and his five home runs, they gave the Dodgers a healthy dose of that offense in hitting 15 of the series' record-setting 25 homers.
There's also comfort to be had in the reality that the Dodgers didn't roll over for the Astros. The series did go to a Game 7, after all. The Dodgers also scored exactly as many runs (34) as the Astros in the end.
And while the series ended in a relative dud, the whole shebang will not soon be forgotten. Using The Baseball Gauge's "Championship Win Probability Added" metric, it ranks as the fifth-most dramatic World Series of the expansion era (since 1961). As Rob Arthur of FiveThirtyEight noted, Games 2 and 5, in particular, rank among the best World Series games ever played.
It is with those two games, however, that the Dodgers' list of regrets begins. 
In Game 2, they turned a 3-1 lead and, according to FanGraphs, a peak win expectancy of 93 percent into a 7-6 loss in 11 innings:
Right about now, worth remembering the Dodgers had Game 2 in the bag. (via @fangraphs) https://t.co/wKwzE77Xr3
Later in Game 5, the Dodgers had an early 4-0 lead an a win expectancy of 76.1 percent as late as the seventh inning. Both went down the drain in a 13-12 loss in 10 innings:
And were in pretty good shape in Game 5, too. (via @fangraphs) https://t.co/RvWQrGtOTG
The easiest target to blame for these two losses is manager Dave Roberts, who does deserve his share.
Taking Rich Hill out after only four innings in Game 2 put a heavy burden on the club's bullpen. He also paid for asking Brandon Morrow to pitch for the third time in as many days in Game 5, as it took him only six pitches to turn an 8-7 lead into an 11-8 deficit.
And the blame on Roberts doesn't end there.
Whereas he was quick with the hook for Hill in Game 2, he was too slow with it for Yu Darvish in Game 7. Although the right-hander was clearly struggling and already in a 3-0 hole in the second inning, Roberts let him face Springer for a second time. Springer launched a two-run homer that practically put the game on ice.

But to blame Roberts exclusively for the Dodgers' failure is to forget that a manager is only as good as his players.
Above all, Darvish must not escape a scolding. The Dodgers got him in a trade-deadline blockbuster to be a finishing touch for their World Series quest. But in two chances to hold up his end of the bargain, he allowed a total of nine runs in 3.1 innings.
Fellow ace Clayton Kershaw isn't blameless in his own right. He bookended his first World Series with a dominant start in Game 1 and a clutch four-inning relief appearance in Game 7, but in between was a six-run dud in Game 5.
Kenley Jansen, the Dodgers' ace closer, has a black mark next to his name, too. He fumbled the two-run lead he was handed in Game 2 and was on the mound when the Game 5 roller coaster finally ended.
And while the Dodgers may have scored as many runs as the Astros, their runs didn't come as easily.
The list of Astros hitters who played a starring role in the World Series doesn't end with Springer. Jose Altuve, the likely American League MVP, hit two home runs. So did Carlos Correa, Alex Bregman and Yuli Gurriel.
For the Dodgers, only Joc Pederson and Yasiel Puig went deep more than once in the series, and Puig's homers accounted for half his hits. Fellow stars Cody Bellinger, Corey Seager, Justin Turner and Chris Taylor each had their moments, but none was a steady threat throughout the series.
The offense's collective struggle was crystallized in Game 7. The chances to score runs were there, as they took 13 at-bats with runners in scoring position. But Andre Ethier provided the only hit, and it wasn't the big one they were waiting for.
Looking back, it's astonishing how few Dodgers can say they had a good series with no ifs, ands, buts or strings attached. Pederson can. So can Alex Wood, who was terrific in Game 4. A few relievers—namely Kenta Maeda, Tony Watson and Tony Cingrani—made it through relatively unscathed. But that's it.
Looking ahead, it's easy enough to believe the Dodgers will be back. Their trip to the World Series is only the most recent step of a five-year run of success. Many of the players who made it possible are around for the long haul, and now they have every reason to be even hungrier.
"This team is not going to give up. We are going to bring a championship back to L.A. I promise you that," Jansen said after Game 7, per Bill Shaikin of the Los Angeles Times.
But if this sounds familiar, that's because the Dodgers have been promising a championship in one way or another since 2012. There's been bold talk, big-ticket free-agent signings, blockbuster trades and hundreds of millions of dollars spent on payroll. All for the sake of bringing home the big prize.
So far, each chance they've had has gone to waste. And while more chances do await them, none may be as ideal as the one they just blew.
              
Data courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and The Baseball Gauge. 




The Houston Astros will have some bling whether they beat the Los Angeles Dodgers in the World Series or not.
Paul Wall, Houston rapper and grill aficionado, offered free mouth jewelry for the entire team:
U know we had to do it! In celebration of @astros goin to the World Series we are offering free grillz for the entire team c/o me/ @tvjohnny
Astros pitcher Lance McCullers Jr. personally reached out to the Houston rapper to ensure he gets fitted for a new look and received direct approval:  
Talked to @paulwallbaby today and we are heading to his store in the H to get fitted, it's happening 100%. 🔥🔥🔥 https://t.co/WuRv3UBvgk
@LMcCullers43 I got u big Homie! 💯💯💯🤘🤘🤘
The Dodgers would likely prefer a ring instead of a new mouthpiece, but the Astros could double up with a flashy smile if they win the series.
Los Angeles currently leads 1-0 after winning Game 1 on Tuesday.  



Fact: By fanning 11 Houston Astros in seven innings in a 3-1 victory in Game 1 on Tuesday night, Clayton Kershaw became the first Dodgers pitcher since Sandy Koufax in 1965 to strike out 10-plus batters in a World Series game.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: @GettySport



The Los Angeles Dodgers will try to take a 2-0 lead in the World Series on Wednesday when they host the Houston Astros in a pick'em Game 2 matchup at the sportsbooks.
Los Angeles won Game 1 on Tuesday 3-1 behind ace Clayton Kershaw but will now face Houston's Justin Verlander.
Betting line: The Dodgers opened as -113 favorites (wager $113 to win $100); the total is at 7.5 runs, according to sportsbooks monitored by OddsShark. (Line updates and matchup report)
MLB betting pick, via OddsShark computer: 5.0-0.2, Dodgers (MLB picks on every game)
            
Why the Astros can pay on the MLB lines
Verlander has not lost since joining the Astros, going a perfect 9-0 in nine outings.
He has been reborn after previously playing his entire career with the Detroit Tigers, winning the American League Cy Young Award with them in 2011.
The 34-year-old's motivation may be at an all-time high knowing this may be his last shot to win a World Series as a top starter.
The 2017 American League Championship Series MVP earned two wins against the New York Yankees, and he is poised to continue his unbeaten streak at Dodger Stadium, where he will be pitching for the first time.
                  
Why the Dodgers can pay on the MLB lines
The Dodgers have all the momentum right now after seeing Kershaw dominate Houston's lineup, especially knowing he will go to the mound at least one more time in the World Series.
Next up is Rich Hill, who has been solid in two starts for Los Angeles in the playoffs so far.
Hill has walked away with a no-decision in both of his postseason outings, giving up three runs and six hits combined over nine innings with four walks and 12 strikeouts. The bottom line is Los Angeles won each of those games by three runs.
             
Smart betting pick
While winning the series opener was big for the Dodgers, they need to go up 2-0 in order to feel good about themselves heading to Minute Maid Park for the next three games.
The Astros will be happy going home with a split in the World Series considering they have not lost there during their current playoff run.
Houston is 7-3 in its last 10 games versus National League teams at home and will come through behind Verlander to tie the series.
            
MLB betting trends
Houston is 2-4 in its last six games.
The total has gone under in six of Houston's last nine games.
The total has gone under in four of Los Angeles' last five games.
             
All MLB odds and betting trends courtesy of Bleacher Report's official odds partner, OddsShark. All quotes gathered firsthand unless otherwise noted. Check out Twitter for injury and line-movement updates and the OddsShark YouTube page for picks and analysis, or download the free odds tracker app.



Justin Turner propelled the Los Angeles Dodgers to a 1-0 World Series lead Tuesday night thanks to a two-run home run in the sixth inning, but the Houston Astros should have an excellent opportunity to even the score Wednesday evening. 
Justin Turner comes up clutch! 

#WorldSeries https://t.co/8Ktwcy1rva
Justin Verlander—who is coming off an MVP-caliber performance in the ALCS—will be on the hill for the American League champions, while the Dodgers will counter with Rich Hill in what figures to be another low-scoring affair under the sweltering Los Angeles sun. 
With the action fast approaching, here's a rundown of when and where you can catch Game 2 of the Fall Classic.  
               
Date: Wednesday, Oct. 25
Start Time: 8:09 p.m. ET
TV: Fox
          
Preview 

If there's one pitcher who can help the Astros steal a game in Hollywood, it's Verlander. 
The 34-year-old has been electric to this point in the postseason, and his shutdown stylings against the New York Yankees served as a warning shot that should have the Dodgers scared. 
In two starts against the Bronx Bombers, the 2011 American League MVP rattled off a pair of wins as he scattered 10 hits over 16 innings and struck out 21 batters while walking two. 
"I think the mental focus is just at another level," Verlander said, according to MLB.com's Anthony Castrovince. "I think it's something that would be easy to say, 'Why don't you just do that every game?' It's unsustainable throughout the course of the regular season. If you were that mentally focused, you'd just burn out. It's just another level. I don't know how to really explain it."
If there's hope for the Dodgers, it's that Verlander doesn't have a track record of success in the Fall Classic. According to MLB.com, Verlander posted a 7.20 ERA in his three previous World Series starts with the Detroit Tigers. 
Verlander's last appearance on the game's biggest stage came in 2012, when he surrendered five earned runs in four innings of an 8-3 Game 1 loss to the San Francisco Giants. 
According to NBC Sports' Craig Calcaterra, history suggests a repeat of that performance could doom the Astros: 
In 112 World Series, teams have gone down 0-2 52 times. Only 11 of them have come back to win. You're up Justin Verlander.
The Dodgers, meanwhile, will turn the ball over to Hill in search of a 2-0 series lead. 
And unlike Verlander—who has made four starts in October—Hill will be taking the mound for the first time in 10 days. 
The 37-year-old was particularly efficient last time out, when he helped lead the Dodgers to a 4-1 Game 2 win over the Chicago Cubs by recording eight punchouts in five innings while allowing just three hits. 
Now headed back to the bump, Hill will try to baffle an Astros lineup that doesn't have much experience against his fastball and maddening curveball, as Climbing Tal's Hill highlighted: 
Game 2 preview: #Dodgers Rich Hill vs. current #Astros batters. #WorldSeries https://t.co/arkZJseHe2
"Really at the end of the day it's about attacking and staying convicted in your approach," Hill said, according to the Houston Chronicle's Jake Kaplan. "You get to this point and it's not about changing your game plan or doing something different, right? You've done your homework, you've prepared throughout the entire season to get to this point."
Hill should have some early success against the Astros, but the bet here is that Houston will start to churn out hits the second time through the order and give Verlander the run support he needs to knot the series at one game apiece heading back to Minute Maid Park. 
Prediction: Astros 5, Dodgers 3



The Los Angeles Dodgers will look to move within two wins of a championship when they host the Houston Astros in Game 2 of the World Series at Dodger Stadium in L.A. on Wednesday night.
Los Angeles benefited from a gem tossed by ace starting pitcher Clayton Kershaw in Game 1, and it will call upon Rich Hill to turn in a similar effort in Game 2, although he has a difficult opponent on his hands in the form of Justin Verlander.
Here is all the information you need to watch and enjoy Game 2 of the World Series, along with the latest comments from key figures in the series entering Game 2.
               
Where: Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles
When: Wednesday, Oct. 25 at 8:09 p.m. ET
Watch: Fox
Live Stream: Fox Sports Go
               
What the Astros Are Saying
The Astros will likely need a better offensive performance in Game 2 than the three hits and one run they recorded in Game 1 in order to even the series, but the bulk of the pressure rests squarely on Verlander's shoulders.
The 34-year-old veteran has a history of success in the postseason with an 11-5 record, a 3.00 ERA and a 1.06 WHIP.
He was especially strong in the American League Championship Series against the New York Yankees, surrendering just one run in two starts, while striking out 21 in 16 innings en route to a 2-0 record.
The former American League Cy Young award winner and MVP is now in a situation where Houston needs him to be the stopper, and Astros manager A.J. Hinch marveled at his ability to come through in big spots, according to Stats LLC (h/t ESPN.com):
"It is pretty remarkable. I was told when he first got here that he gets stronger throughout the game, both by him and by other people, and everything speaks to that. And then when you watch it happen at the biggest stage and some of the biggest moments in some of our biggest games, you become a believer.
"It's in his DNA; he's a finisher mentally, just as much as he is physically. He prepares himself. He studies. Again, that doesn't help him physically finish, but it does give him a mental edge every game that he pitches."
Verlander is still in search of an elusive World Series ring to complete a potential Hall of Fame resume, and he can go a long way toward getting one with a win in Game 2.
Per ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick, Verlander discussed what comes over him during the playoffs and how he is able to remain so focused on the task at hand:
"I think the mental focus is just at another level. It's easy to say, 'Why don't you just do that every game?' But it's unsustainable throughout the course of the regular season. If you were that mentally focused, you'd just burn out.
"I don't really know how to explain it. My sole focus even between innings is thinking about what I can do to execute and what pitches I should throw and what I've seen and what my instincts are telling me. There are times where I lose track of where we're at in the game, and I don't really know what's going on."
Kershaw limited the Astros to three hits and one run over seven innings in Game 1, while striking out 11. That is precisely the type of outing Houston needs out of Verlander to stop the bleeding.
He has thrived in that role during the postseason thus far, and his presence gives the Astros a great chance to even the series.
                     
What the Dodgers Are Saying
Kershaw's dominant showing in Game 1 is a huge reason why the Dodgers hold a 1-0 lead in the World Series, but more timely hitting from outfielder Chris Taylor and third baseman Justin Turner was at the forefront in Game 1 as well.
Taylor gave L.A. a 1-0 lead in the first inning with a solo home run, while Turner put the Dodgers back on top for good with a two-run shot in the sixth.
Taylor was a virtual unknown entering the season with one career homer to his credit, and Turner didn't become a regular starter until joining the Dodgers in 2014.
Dodgers manager Dave Roberts believes both players have an intangible quality that has allowed them to thrive on the big stage, according to ESPN.com's Dave Schoenfield:
"I think that there's just a DNA piece to those two guys that they had opportunities. They created opportunities for themselves, and they expect a lot from themselves. They prepare the right way. They believe in their abilities. And so now, yeah, you see their two stories, and you look back a few years, and seeing that they're hitting 1-2 in the World Series, it's a credit to them."
Although the Dodgers stumbled down the stretch during the regular season, they have lost just one game during the playoffs thus far and are playing like the team that was on a historic pace earlier in the campaign.
Per ESPN.com's Bradford Doolittle, Turner discussed the difference between the regular season and the playoffs, and how it changes a player's psyche: "Postseason is definitely a lot more fun. Sandy told me—Koufax—told me today, 162 [regular-season games] is work. Once you get to the playoffs, it's fun. And I thought that was a pretty cool way to look at it. I agree with him a hundred percent."
It's difficult for the Dodgers to not have fun considering how dominant they have been in the playoffs, and due to how electric the atmosphere has been at Dodger Stadium.
That will be the case once again Wednesday, and although L.A. will have massive challenge on its hands against Verlander, it will counter with veteran lefty Rich Hill.
Hill has seen and done it all in baseball, and coming off a solid NLCS start that saw him strike out eight and allow just one run in five innings against the Chicago Cubs, he should keep the Dodgers in the mix.



Everyone on the Los Angeles Dodgers and Houston Astros has the opportunity to join a long and decorated line of World Series heroes. 
While no MLB superstar can single-handedly lead a team to greatness—just ask Mike Trout—many icons have lifted their squads to glory in the best-of-seven championship format. One scorching week in June will be forgotten by July, but October greatness lasts forever.
This assortment of all-time Fall Classic performances judges players for the entire series rather than the most memorable moments and individual games. Multiple big games are valued more than one iconic catch, home run or even start.
The series' circumstances, however, factored into the selections and order. A huge showcase received bonus points for an unforgettable clutch game, especially those that occurred in Game 7. Yet a signature play was not a prerequisite.
In two cases, a pair of teammates made the cut together since they were collectively too remarkable to deny. One iconic duo may have ranked higher if it had not dominated so much in a one-sided sweep.
Although most of the honorees played for the winning side, one player broke those rules in defeat. He may have captured the top spot had his team earned another victory.
Don Larsen, New York Yankees (1956)
If this was an appraisal of single-game performances, Don Larsen would headline the list. Some readers will still express dismay over the Yankees hurler missing the cut despite throwing the only perfect game in postseason history.
His first start, however, was far less memorable. When presented an early 6-0 lead in Game 2, the Brooklyn Dodgers chased him out in the second inning and rallied to win, 13-8.
                   
Lew Burdette, Milwaukee Braves (1957)
As a 30-year-old making his World Series debut against the Yankees, Lew Burdette won all three starts and threw complete-game shutouts in Games 5 and 7. Having scored 23 runs during the series, the Braves needed every bit of his clutch pitching.
                        
Bill Mazeroski, Pittsburgh Pirates (1960)
Bill Mazeroski owns the only Game 7 walk-off home run in World Series history. Although the Yankees outscored them 55-27, the Pirates ended the series with a play that would factor prominently on any list highlighting specific World Series moments.
                   
Mickey Lolich, Detroit Tigers (1968)
Three days after winning an elimination Game 5, Mickey Lolich outdueled Bob Gibson by allowing one run in a complete game. The lefty yielded five runs over three starts, all Tigers victories, to defeat the defending-champion St. Louis Cardinals despite Gibson breaking his own World Series record with 35 strikeouts. 
              
Brooks Robinson, Baltimore Orioles (1970)
In addition to tallying nine hits (including two doubles and two home runs), Brooks Robinson cemented his status as one of baseball's greatest defenders ever during 1970's Fall Classic triumph over the Cincinnati Reds.
                    
Gene Tenace, Oakland Athletics (1972)
At the time a role player who batted .225 in 258 regular-season plate appearances, Gene Tenace carried the Athletics to a 1972 championship. In a seven-game series where the A's claimed each win by one run, the catcher clobbered four of their five homers and drove in nine of their 16 runs.
                 
Willie Stargell, Pittsburgh Pirates (1979)
Down 3-1—no, the Golden State Warriors were not the first team to relinquish such a lead—the Pirates completed their comeback with a major boost from Willie Stargell. The 1979 regular-season and National League Championship Series MVP also earned World Series MVP honors by collecting four hits—most notably a go-ahead homer in the sixth inning of Game 7.
                 
Billy Hatcher, Cincinnati Reds (1990)
Billy Hatcher, a career .264 hitter, went 9-for-12 with four doubles and seven consecutive hits en route to Cincinnati sweeping Oakland. His .750 batting average remains a World Series record.
                 
Jack Morris, Minnesota Twins (1991)
Pitching on three days' rest, Jack Morris fired 10 shutout innings in Minnesota's 1-0 Game 7 victory over John Smoltz's Atlanta Braves. He allowed three runs in as many starts for the Twins, who claimed their third and most recent championship.
               
Hideki Matsui, New York Yankees (2009)
Hideki Matsui went 8-for-13 with three home runs in New York's last Fall Classic triumph. Hurting his cause, the designated hitter didn't start any of three road games against the Philadelphia Phillies. He did, however, hit a pinch-hit homer in Game 3.
Relax, Yankees fans. The team is still well-represented.

Barry Bonds didn’t make the first draft. After all, his San Francisco Giants lost the 2002 Fall Classic in seven games to the Los Angeles Angels. Troy Glaus received MVP honors for his three home runs.
Even in defeat, Bonds was by far the most valuable player on the field.
Following 2001’s record-setting 73 home runs, the Giants outfielder batted .370/.582/.799 during the regular season. In his only career World Series appearance, the all-time home runs leader reached base 21 times in 30 plate appearances with a record 13 walks (seven intentional).
Along with an absurd .700 on-base percentage, he went 8-for-17 with two doubles and four home runs.
San Francisco's pitching staff couldn’t do its part, allowing 99 baserunners and 41 runs. Russ Ortiz surrendered five runs in the first inning of Game 2. He stayed in for the second to relinquish two more in what became a crushing 11-10 loss.
Perhaps the series also would have unfolded differently if Giants manager Dusty Baker optimized Bonds’ walks in the No. 2 hole rather than batting him cleanup ahead of catcher Benito Santiago. Ranking No. 10 instead of No. 1—and not receiving the ring that eluded him his entire career—is enough of a punishment for the team falling short.

It turns out facing Lou Gehrig and Babe Ruth is incredibly difficult. 
The Cardinals somehow managed to circumvent both legendary sluggers in 1926, upsetting the Yankees in seven games despite The Bambino smashing three home runs in Game 4.
Ruth, a career .326/.470/.744 hitter in 10 World Series appearances, had his best showing in 1928. In a lopsided sweep, The Sultan of Swat went 10-for-16 with three doubles and nine runs scored. He once again went yard three times in Game 4.
Gehrig, meanwhile, reached base 12 times in 17 plate appearances. The Iron Horse clobbered four home runs and drove in nine runs.
This dominance carries the least drama of any inclusion. New York outscored St. Louis 27-10 and won all four games by at least three runs. Nearing the end of his Hall of Fame career, Grover Cleveland "Pete" Alexander surrendered 11 runs in two starts against New York's Murderers' Row. 
Gehrig's 1.727 slugging percentage remains the best in World Series history. Ruth, who was playing through an ankle injury, places third behind Matsui at 1.375. There were no singular clutch moment to prevail the test of time, but the best duo bludgeoning every baseball in sight is still legendary.

Starting pitchers going nine innings was normal in 1905. Throwing a shutout every time? Not as much.
In the second World Series of MLB's modern era, all five games between the New York Giants and Philadelphia Athletics ended in a shutout. Christy Mathewson did all the work in three of New York's four victories.
The ace led the Giants to the NL pennant with a 1.28 ERA in 338.2 innings. He sustained that dominance into the World Series by throwing three complete-game shutouts in six days. 
Mathewson yielded just 13 hits and one walk while recording 18 strikeouts. For good measure, he added two hits and a walk at the plate.
"Mathewson was the greatest pitcher who ever lived," Athletics manager Connie Mack said, via Bridget Bielefeld of the National Baseball Hall of Fame. "He had knowledge, judgment, perfect control and form. It was wonderful to watch him pitch—when he wasn’t pitching against you."
Any modern pitcher who threw 27 scoreless innings would probably draw the No. 1 spot. However, Mathewson gets docked for playing in the segregated dead-ball era. The Athletics were an above-average offense despite accruing a .648 OPS, which would have ranked last in 2017. 

Albert Pujols hit three home runs in Game 3 of the 2011 World Series. Yadier Molina drove in nine runs during St. Louis' seven-game triumph over the Texas Rangers. Lance Berkman reached base 16 times. 
None of them earned MVP honors. David Freese did for saving the series twice.
Texas had St. Louis down to its final strike in Game 6. Facing elimination, the third baseman tied it with a triple off the right-field wall.
After each team scored two runs in the 10th, Freese blasted a walk-off homer in the 11th, prompting Fox broadcaster Joe Buck's to replicate his father's famous line of, "We will see you tomorrow night."
Looking to avoid more heart-stopping suspense, he started Game 7 with a two-run double in the opening frame. Freese finished with three doubles, a triple, a home run, five walks and a 1.160 OPS.
"He knows how to hit," Mark McGwire, then working as the Cardinals' hitting coach, told MLB.com's Anthony Dicomo. "He's got ice in his veins, and I truly believe that's God-given. It's hard to tell somebody how to relax when they're in a pressure situation. I believe you either have it or you don't, and he's one that has it."
Sure, a more skilled right fielder than Nelson Cruz—now a full-time designated hitter—may have instead stolen Freese's glory with a title-winning catch. The Cardinals third baseman also misplayed a routine popup earlier in the clumsily played classic. 
But Freese—who had an even better NLCS with three doubles and three homers—delivered two iconic moments late into the same evening.

Is honoring Randy Johnson and Curt Schilling together a copout? Perhaps, but MLB could not choose either when declaring them co-MVPs for the 2001 World Series.
The Arizona Diamondbacks were in their fourth season as an expansion franchise. They faced the Yankees, who had won four of the last five championships and defeated the 116-win Seattle Mariners to capture their fourth straight AL pennant.
The Evil Empire had the Core Four and Roger Clemens, but Arizona boasted NL Cy Young winner Johnson and runner-up Schilling. Both aces needed to dominate to pull off a storybook upset.
They did just that, combining to allow six runs over 38.2 innings with 45 strikeouts and five walks.
Arizona could have clinched the series sooner had Byung-Hyun Kim not served up home runs in Game 4's ninth and 10 innings following seven strong frames from Schilling. After falling behind 2-0 because of both aces, the Yankees pulled ahead to 3-2 with a pair of extra-inning triumphs.
Although Arizona scored 15 runs through four innings of a Game 6 rout, the Big Unit trucked along for seven frames. After all, there was no chance he'd pitch the next day anyway. Right?
Rather than trusting a bullpen while trailing 2-1, Johnson surprisingly entered Game 7 in the eighth. He retired Chuck Knoblauch, Bernie Williams, Tino Martinez and Jorge Posada in order.
The offense rewarded his gutsy display by orchestrating a ninth-inning comeback against Mariano Rivera, who was so amazing that he remains the greatest closer of all time despite blowing a save in Game 7 of the World Series.
Johnson's bullpen outing may be the most memorable moment, but Schilling made two of three stellar starts on short rest. Together, they dismantled the Yankees dynasty.

What's a list of iconic World Series performers without Mr. October?
A four-time champion and two-time Fall Classic MVP, Reggie Jackson hit .357/.457/.755 with 10 home runs on the grandest stage. He stamped the indelible nickname into immortality on Oct. 18, 1977, when he cemented yet another Yankees championship with three home runs against the Dodgers.
New York trailed 3-2 in Game 6's fourth inning when the outfielder sent a three-run shot into orbit. He put the game out of reach with another shot the following frame before capping off the historic evening with an eighth-inning insurance blast.
While that game certainly vaults him into the spotlight, he also finished the series with nine hits, three walks, 10 runs, eight RBI and five homers.
At the time, he became the second player after Ruth to achieve a three-homer game in the World Series. Pujols and Pablo Sandoval since joined them in 2011 and 2012, respectively, but neither added any more pop.
When first uttered, "Mr. October" was not meant as a term of endearment. Catcher Thurman Munson used the phrase sarcastically in response to his teammate criticizing manager Billy Martin. 
Nothing eliminates tension quite like a championship.

The 1965 World Series commenced with Sandy Koufax sitting out Game 1 to observe Yom Kippur. It ended with him carrying the Dodgers to their second title in three years.
While the ace started a game later due to the Jewish Day of Atonement, the Dodgers fell behind 2-0 after committing three errors in their Game 2 loss to the Twins. They evened the slate before Koufax took the mound again for Game 5.
He notched 10 strikeouts in a complete-game shutout against the 102-win squad. When Minnesota staved off elimination in Game 6, Koufax went back to work on just two days' rest.
With the championship on the line, he once again collected 10 punchouts in a complete-game shutout. He allowed three hits (two singles and a double) and three walks, letting no baserunner advance past second in a 2-0 triumph.
The Dodgers won the NL pennant despite amassing a .647 OPS and a MLB-low 78 home runs. They hit above their regular-season norms in the World Series, but they only pieced together 24 runs in total and 10 in Koufax's three turns.
With games scores of 88 in both Games 5 and 7, Koufax garnered serious consideration for the top ranking here. He might have gotten it with a stronger Game 2 start. 

Not taking any chances in Game 7 of the 2014 World Series, Giants manager Bruce Bochy pulled an ineffective Tim Hudson during the second inning. Even after receiving seven clutch outs from Jeremy Affeldt, the Giants needed to protect a 3-2 lead for five innings. 
Former Cy Young Award winner Tim Lincecum moved to the bullpen for such a moment, but a back injury he aggravated in Game 2 knocked him out of the series. Perhaps out of desperation, Bochy turned to Madison Bumgarner, who won Game 1 and twirled a 117-pitch complete-game shutout three days earlier.
Viewers—this one included—figured he work one or two frames. Maybe three, tops. Bumgarner instead preserved San Francisco's one-run edge for a five-inning save, the longest in World Series history. 
Although he allowed just two singles, the drama intensified when Alex Gordon advanced to third on a Gregor Blanco error with two outs in the ninth. Bumgarner stayed in the game to retire Salvador Perez, who had eight hits during the series.
"You know what? I can't lie to you anymore," Bumgarner said after the game, via ESPN.com. "I'm a little tired now."
Even though MLB's archives will uncover many comparable displays of stamina from mound workhorses, such a feat had not been accomplished in years. A complete game is now rare enough, so it's unlikely any pitcher will ever again match his individual impact in a postseason series.
His 21 innings may look light compared to Mathewson and countless others from past generations, but accounting for modern usage and Game 7's zero margin for error on short rest elevates him inches shy of the best pitching performance ever.

If David Ortiz makes the Hall of Fame despite spending his career as a designated hitter, he can thank his postseason success. He led the "cursed" Red Sox to three titles by batting .289/.404/.543 in 85 career postseason games and a torrid .455/.576/.795 in three Fall Classic triumphs.
Nine years after sweeping St. Louis to snap its drought, Boston fell behind 2-1 and collectively batted .211/.291/.330 throughout the rematch in 2013.
Every other Boston batter finished with an OPS below .600. Ortiz had a batting average of .688. 
Facing a 2-1 deficit, Big Papi delivered three hits apiece in Games 4 and 5. The Cardinals then intentionally walked him three times in Game 6, leading to a three-run double from Shane Victorino. Although Carlos Beltran robbed him of a Game 1 grand slam, Ortiz finished the six-game set with 11 hits, eight walks, two doubles, two home runs and a 1.948 OPS.
"I know great players are great, are more likely to be great in any moment, but it's hard to see him in those moments and not think that there's something different about him," then-Red Sox general manager Ben Cherington said after Ortiz's dominant display, per ESPN.com. "He's locked in. We've seen him locked in before, but to do it on this stage and do it in so many big moments, I can't add anything more to the legend that's already there."
Carrying a comatose offense to a title vaults his performance to the top spot among all hitters.
As broached in Lolich's Honorable Mentions section, Gibson set the World Series strikeout record in 1968, during which he yielded five runs over three starts. Perhaps that performance would have made this list instead if St. Louis scored a few runs in Game 7.
It marked the second straight year he shined under the October spotlight.
In 1967, the Cardinals ace contained the Red Sox to three runs in as many starts, all wins. He once again went the distance every time, including a 10-strikeout Game 7 started on short rest.
While he allowed two runs in the winner-take-all bout, he took one score back with a home run.
Although nothing tops the ensuing year's 17-strikeout gem tossed in Game 1, he opened 1967's Fall Classic with 10 punchouts. And oh yeah, he broke his leg three months earlier.
In 2004, Cardinals catcher Tim McCarver compared Gibson's effort to his 1964 World Series MVP display, per the New York Times' Richard Sandomir.
"Invincible. He was everywhere," McCarver said. "He just dominated the series, much more than in 1964. He was coming into the consciousness of baseball then, but in 1967 he had something to prove."
Having notched a 1.89 ERA over nine starts, Gibson has to be considered one of the best World Series pitchers ever. Despite stiff combination from many worthwhile candidates, his 1967 run takes the tightly contested top spot.
                  
All statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com.



Baseball fans were spoiled by Game 1 of the World Series, as a pitchers duel between Clayton Kershaw and Dallas Keuchel lasted two hours and 28 minutes. 
There's a good chance Wednesday's Game 2 won't be as efficient, but there's a lot we can learn from the 3-1 Dodgers win that we can use to predict the rest of the series. 
              
TV Schedule
Start Time: 8:09 p.m. ET
TV: Fox
Pitching Matchup: Justin Verlander vs. Rich Hill
                
Justin Verlander and Rich Hill will get the ball for their respective teams for the second game of the best-of-seven series. The pressure will be on Verlander to perform and give the Astros a fighting chance against the dominant Dodgers pitching staff. 
All the Astros could muster against Clayton Kershaw and two relievers was a home run off the bat of Alex Bregman. Leadoff hitter George Springer particularly struggled as he became the first player since Mike Napoli in 2013 to strike out four times in a World Series game, per Baseball Reference: 
George Springer has the first #WorldSeries golden sombrero since Mike Napoli in 2013 https://t.co/Qh4dCpgIJJ
The good news, if there is any, for the Astros is they won't have to take on Kershaw, at least not until Game 4 or 5. But Hill is no slouch as he's only allowed six hits and three runs in his first two postseason starts. 
The one thing to watch in Game 2 is how long Hill stays on the mound. The southpaw tossed four innings in his NLDS start and five in his NLCS appearance. Usually this would open a window of opportunity for the opposing team, but the Dodgers bullpen has been lights out.
Closer Kenley Jansen isn't afraid to throw more than one inning if that situation pops up in Game 2. With the way the righthander is pitching in the postseason, he's drawing comparisons to Mariano Rivera. MLB Network insider Jon Heyman provided us with a reason why Jansen is like Rivera: 
kenley won't be easy for guys from the other league with that cutter, just like mariano wasn't easy
On the other hand, the Dodgers lineup has little concerns. Justin Turner once again starred in the clutch with a two-run home run in the sixth and Corey Seager's return to the lineup was seamless as he went 2-for-3. 
Dodgers manager Dave Roberts may have a wealth of confidence in his bullpen, but Astros counterpart A.J. Hinch is trying to piece things together after relying on starter Lance McCullers to close out ALCS Game 7 in four innings of relief. 
Brad Peacock and Chris Devenski didn't give up a hit in 1 1/3 innings of work in relief of Keuchel. Hinch has to be hopeful that his relievers have turned a corner and they will reverse the course from their poor ALCS showing in which they gave up nine runs. 

But until the Astros can prove they can hit the Dodgers pitching, and that they have a reliable bullpen for more than one game, the Dodgers have to be considered the favorite to win Game 2. 
Prediction: Dodgers 4, Astros 2. 
            
All statistics obtained from MLB.com.
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90. 



Clayton Kershaw took the mound for his first World Series start amid every conceivable type of heat.
He responded by barely breaking a sweat.
This isn't literally true, mind you. Pitching is hard work, even for three-time Cy Young winners like Kershaw, and the game-time temperature Tuesday at Dodger Stadium for Game 1 of the 2017 World Series between his Los Angeles Dodgers and the Houston Astros checked in at 103 degrees. That's a new postseason record.
Figuratively, though, Kershaw was cooler than the proverbial cucumber. The left-hander spearheaded the Dodgers' 3-1 win with 11 strikeouts scattered across seven innings.
"I'll take it," the 29-year-old said afterward, according to Andy McCullough of the Los Angeles Times.
“#Postseason Kershaw, though.”
   
Oh, really? #WorldSeries https://t.co/ZqkY75mY9y
A leadoff home run by Chris Taylor in the first inning and a two-run homer by Justin Turner in the sixth inning provided the offense for the Dodgers, but at no point did Kershaw have a large margin for error with which to work.
He had the difficult task of matching Dallas Keuchel, a fellow Cy Young-winning lefty, pitch for pitch. To boot, the offense taking its hacks against Kershaw ranks among the best ever.
The baseball gods themselves could not have crafted a more daunting proving ground for Kershaw's first-ever World Series assignment. And in light of his personal history in October, anyone who was feeling fatalistic about his chances can be forgiven.
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
Kershaw entered the 2017 playoffs with a 4.55 ERA in 18 career postseason appearances. He was the losing pitcher in three of Los Angeles' last four playoff exits.
He made some forward progress against the Arizona Diamondbacks in the National League Division Series and against the Chicago Cubs in the National League Championship Series, but not without stumbles. 
The good: He allowed just seven runs in three starts.
The bad: He walked five, allowed six homers and pitched into the seventh only once.
In all, he was nothing like the Kershaw who's dominated the regular season like nobody else since 2011. And certainly nothing like any of the great postseason pitching performances in recent memory—a la Madison Bumgarner in 2014.

It's hard to imagine a more potent threat to send Kershaw's modest postseason progress careening back in the other direction than the Astros offense. Among the ways it became historically great was avoiding strikeouts and crushing lefty starters better than any other team.
"It's the best lineup that we've seen all year," Dodgers manager Dave Roberts said, per McCullough. "They slug. They don't strike out. They're athletic. They steal bases. There's so many ways they can beat you."
In actually watching Kershaw go to work against the Astros, however, you'd never know it.
He struck out four Astros in his first trip through their lineup and ultimately whiffed 11 of the first 19 he faced. In so doing, he set a new high-water mark for strikeouts against this seemingly un-strikeout-able offense.
It's not a question of what Kershaw had working, but of what he didn't have working. He was his vintage self, throwing his fastball for strikes in all quadrants of the zone and snapping off electric sliders and knee-buckling curveballs.
Via MLB, here's a sampling:
.@ClaytonKersh22’s first #WorldSeries start?

Magnificent. https://t.co/koFYkQwhgv
The only time he was remotely in trouble was in the seventh. The inning itself brought nothing but trouble in past Octobers, and he seemed doomed to more of the same when he gave up a leadoff hit to Jose Altuve and then watched Corey Seager fumble a potential double play ball two batters later.
Instead, it was much ado about nothing. Kershaw escaped that jam and called it a day after 83 pitches.
Should he have gone back out for the eighth? There's an argument in favor of the affirmative, but the arguments for the negative can be summed up like so: Why risk it?
Kershaw had already pitched seven innings in extreme heat, and even going that far was no small feat relative to his recent workloads. Since he missed over a month with a back injury in July and August, the Dodgers have let him pitch into the eighth only once.
The Dodgers also have a steady bullpen for a change, and they know full well it's an excuse not to push Kershaw as far as they used to in October. To quote pitching coach Rick Honeycutt, via Jenifer Langosch of MLB.com:
"I think a lot of them you have to put the blame on the organization and us. Every time in the past, we've asked him to come back on short rest. We've asked him to pitch out of the bullpen. We've asked him to pitch an extra inning or an extra batter that, if we had more depth or better relievers, he might not have been asked to do those things.
"Most of that shouldn't be on him."
In lieu of playing with fire by sending Kershaw back out there, Roberts gave the eighth inning to Brandon Morrow and the ninth inning to Kenley Jansen. His reward was six straight outs that sealed the Dodgers' first World Series win since their Game 5 clincher in the 1988 Fall Classic.
If the Dodgers win the next three games, the end of their 29-year championship drought will be made all the more impressive by how they needed to use baseball's most decorated ace only once.
It's either that, or they'll be able to run Kershaw back out for another start in Game 5 and, if needed, an appearance out of the bullpen in a decisive Game 7.
The fact he'll be well-rested in either scenario is indisputable. After what he did in Game 1, it also seems indisputable that he'll be ready to be the postseason ace everyone's been waiting for.
Data courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs.




The Los Angeles Dodgers took the initial step in their quest to win their first World Series title since 1988 with a 3-1 victory over the Houston Astros in Tuesday's Game 1 at Dodger Stadium.
Clayton Kershaw set the tone for the National League representatives with a dominant performance, striking out 11 and allowing just one run and three hits with zero walks in seven innings. Justin Turner and Chris Taylor provided the offense with home runs in the sixth and first innings, respectively, before the lockdown bullpen combination of Brandon Morrow and Kenley Jansen secured the win. 
Turner and Taylor continued their postseason heroics after being named co-MVPs in the National League Championship Series victory over the Chicago Cubs, but Kershaw proved to be a difference.
Heading into Tuesday's start, Kershaw's 4.40 postseason ERA fueled the perception that he struggles in the playoffs. He silenced that narrative by nearly blanking an Astros lineup that led all of Major League Baseball with 896 runs this season. His only mistake came when Alex Bregman tied the score at one with a solo homer to lead off the fourth, which was the seventh playoff long ball the southpaw allowed this year.
However, Kershaw's ability to keep Astros off the bases outweighed the one home run.
Houston didn't have multiple runners on base a single time Tuesday, largely because of Kershaw's 11 strikeouts. He joined Dodgers royalty with the punchouts:
.@ClaytonKersh22 is the first @Dodgers hurler since Sandy Koufax in 1965 to record 10+ Ks in a #WorldSeries game. https://t.co/fxU7WZ1W4f
The only thing hotter than Los Angeles' ace was the temperature, as ESPN Stats & Info noted:
The official game-time temperature for Game 1 of the #WorldSeries is 103 degrees. It's the warmest postseason game on record (since 1984).
If not for the long balls from Turner and Taylor, Dallas Keuchel would have matched Kershaw frame for frame. Like his counterpart, the Astros lefty didn't allow multiple baserunners at a time in Tuesday's start, and he wiped out the Dodgers' first three runners with double plays.
In all, Keuchel allowed three earned runs, six hits and one walk while striking out three in 6.2 innings. He nearly overcame Taylor drilling his first pitch over the wall to open the World Series scoring:
First pitch. Big message. #WorldSeries https://t.co/OxUM4MvJpM
It was more October magic for the Los Angeles leadoff hitter after he tallied three multihit games and two home runs in the NLCS. He also worked a critical walk with two outs in the sixth, which allowed Turner to bat in the inning.
The result was the game-winning homer:
It’s hot outside, and you ain’t cooling down @redturn2. #WorldSeries https://t.co/rJm9SCW9Hr
According to Bob Nightengale of USA Today, Turner's blast evened him with Duke Snider for the most career RBI in Dodgers playoff history at 26.
Turner's shot set the stage for the dominant Dodgers bullpen that didn't allow a single run in the NLCS to close the door. Morrow worked a 1-2-3 eighth before Jansen was his typically brilliant self in a perfect ninth against the top of Houston's order.
Despite the loss, Houston can still steal home-field advantage if it wins Game 2 Wednesday.
It will send Justin Verlander to the mound to face Rich Hill. Verlander has been nothing short of remarkable in four postseason appearances with the Astros, posting a 1.46 ERA and 0.93 WHIP. Hill has been less effective but still impressive in his two postseason starts this year with a 3.00 ERA and 1.11 WHIP.
A vintage performance from either would give their team momentum before the series shifts to Houston for Games 3 through 5.


First pitch. Big message. #WorldSeries https://t.co/OxUM4MvJpM
Los Angeles Dodgers outfielder Chris Taylor didn't wait long to make a major impact in Game 1 of the World Series.  
In the bottom of the first inning of Tuesday's showdown with the Houston Astros at Dodgers Stadium, Taylor drove the first pitch he saw from Houston starter Dallas Keuchel deep to left field for a leadoff home run that gave the hosts a 1-0 lead. 
There was no doubt the ball was gone even before Keuchel turned and looked, as it almost left the park before landing. Per baseball writer John Edwards, Taylor added his name to the history books with his blast: 
Chris Taylor's home run traveled 447 feet, the 5th longest postseason home run ever tracked by Statcast. #Dodgers #WorldSeries #ThisTeam

[Twitter]



Should the Los Angeles Dodgers win their first World Series since 1988, first baseman Adrian Gonzalez won't be there to see it. 
Gonzalez is vacationing with his family in Europe and will not be in attendance for the Fall Classic, according to the Los Angeles Times' Bill Shaikin.
The Dodgers shut Gonzalez down for the rest of the season in September as a result of tightness in his back. The 35-year-old hasn't appeared for the team in the 2017 playoffs and was left off the World Series roster.
Dodgers general manager Fahran Zaidi told Shaikin the team supported Gonzalez's choice to vacation.
"We totally respect his decision," Zaidi said. "He's meant a lot to this organization. He's been in constant contact with the front office, the players, the coaching staff, and [manager Dave Roberts], expressing his support. Everybody here knows he's fully behind us."
Gonzalez has one more year left on his contract, so he'll presumably play for the Dodgers again in 2018 as long as he's healthy. Zaidi doesn't think his absence during the team's most important games in nearly three decades will create any issues inside the locker room.
"He's not physically able to play,” Zaidi said. "He's taking time with his family. I think guys totally understand that."
Should the Dodgers beat the Houston Astros in the World Series, it will be the first time Gonzalez has won a ring in his 16-year MLB career.
He reached the playoffs one time over his first seven years with the Texas Rangers and San Diego Padres. His trade to the Dodgers in the middle of the 2012 season set up the Boston Red Sox to win the World Series a year later. Gonzalez twice reached the National League Championship Series with Los Angeles in 2013 and 2016 before the team's World Series run.



Oakland Athletics catcher Bruce Maxwell said a waiter in Alabama refused to serve him because he knelt during the national anthem earlier this MLB season. 
In an interview with TMZ Sports, Maxwell said he was eating with a city councilman when the waiter said he wouldn't serve the group. After voicing its concerns to restaurant management, the group was granted a different server.
Maxwell became the first MLB player to protest during the anthem when he took a knee before Oakland's 1-0 win over the Texas Rangers on Sept. 23.
Jane Lee of MLB.com shared Maxwell's statement about his decision to join the protest movement:
Bruce Maxwell: https://t.co/fRaVHf2gPs
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick sparked the campaign when he remained seated during a preseason game last year. He told NFL Network's Steve Wyche he was "not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color."
Although Kaepernick remains unsigned after opting out of his contract with the 49ers, numerous NFL players have followed in his footsteps, which has drawn the ire of President Donald Trump.
Maxwell told TMZ Sports he has become friends with Kaepernick.
"His friendship definitely helps," Maxwell said. "His guidance comes through that. And just being able to use him as a sounding board some days does me some good."



The Houston Astros and Los Angeles Dodgers are hours away from kicking off the 2017 World Series to determine which team will be crowned Major League Baseball's champion. 
Aside from the joy of watching the best team in the American League compete against the best team in the National League, the gambling in this series figures to be intense because of how closely matched these two clubs are. 
The Astros led the league in runs scored (896) during the regular season, and the Dodgers had the second-best ERA (3.38). As perfect counter-balances to each other, here are the key prop bets to look for in this year's Fall Classic. 
World Series Odds
Los Angeles Dodgers (-165, bet $165 to win $100)
Houston Astros (+145)
It's not a surprise the Dodgers are the favorites heading into the World Series. For starters, they will have home-field advantage, which has been critical in these playoffs. 
Through the first two rounds of the postseason, home teams have gone a combined 23-8. The Astros won a seven-game ALCS over the New York Yankees in which the home team won every game. 
The Dodgers were also the best home team in MLB during the regular season with a 57-24 record and have gone 4-0 at Dodger Stadium in the playoffs. 
If the Astros are going to win their first World Series, they will have to figure out how to win away from Minute Maid Park. They were actually better on the road (53-28) than at home (48-33) during the regular season, but their lone road win in the playoffs was in Game 4 of the ALDS against the Boston Red Sox. 
All of these factors combine to make the Dodgers easy betting favorites for the World Series as they look to win their first championship since 1988. 
World Series MVP Odds
Clayton Kershaw (+450)
Jose Altuve (+500)
Justin Turner (+600)
Justin Verlander (+800)
Chris Taylor (+800)
Dallas Keuchel (+1000)
Kenley Jansen (+1000)
Clayton Kershaw's playoff struggles have been a topic of discussion for years. The three-time NL Cy Young winner has a 4.40 ERA with 88 hits allowed, 16 homers allowed and 122 strikeouts in 106.1 innings over 21 postseason appearances.
There has been one key difference for Kershaw this year that has helped him appear more comfortable, especially after giving up four solo homers to the Arizona Diamondbacks in Game 1 of the NLDS. 
Positive Residual provided the stats featuring Kershaw's number of pitches thrown and days of rest this postseason compared to last year:
In the 2016 playoffs, Clayton Kershaw threw 395 pitches. Entering the #WorldSeries this year, he's at 276. Note the rest days. #ThisTeam https://t.co/ER8HAkZe4q
The Dodgers rode Kershaw hard in the past because they had to. Their pitching depth has been a huge asset this October, with the addition of Yu Darvish giving Los Angeles a strong No. 2 and Rich Hill a quality No. 3. 
Starting pitchers will typically need to pitch at least two games if they want a shot to win a series MVP award. Justin Verlander was named ALCS MVP for his two dominant outings against the Yankees in which he gave up one run and struck out 21 hitters over 16 innings. 
If this turns into a short series of four or five games, the MVP will come from the position players or relievers on either side. 
Jose Altuve and Justin Turner have been the best hitters for their respective teams this postseason. Altuve did have a hiccup during the three ALCS games in New York with an 0-for-10 stretch, but he's had multiple hits in six of Houston's 11 playoff games this year. 
Turner has only had one game without a hit this postseason. The Dodgers third baseman has posted a .387/.500/.677 slash line with three home runs and more walks (six) than strikeouts (five) against the Diamondbacks and Chicago Cubs. 
As good as Turner has been this October, he did sit out the Dodgers' workout on Sunday. General manager Farhan Zaidi told Ken Gurnick of MLB.com the star third baseman is "a little banged up" but will be ready to play in Game 1. 
Verlander is riding a wave of momentum since being acquired by the Astros, per Matt Kelly of MLB.com:
Justin Verlander since joining the @astros at the very last second on Aug. 31 deadline:

9-0, 1.23 ERA, 67 strikeouts, 11 walks 

#Astros
The Dodgers were in the middle of the MLB pack in strikeouts as a team with 1,380 during the regular season, giving Verlander the potential to keep putting up big numbers in that category. 
However, the most intriguing matchup of the series will be Dodgers closer Kenley Jansen against Houston hitters. 
The Astros are the hardest team in MLB to strike out, whiffing just 1,087 times during the regular season. Jansen is the modern equivalent of Mariano Rivera with a cutter that seems virtually impossible to hit. 
Kenley Jansen and Mariano Rivera, age 22-29 https://t.co/ptO1NNQ8z2
Jansen has had at least 100 strikeouts in four of the last five seasons and has walked a total of 26 hitters in 189.1 innings over the past three seasons. He's given up two hits with 12 strikeouts and one walk in eight innings this postseason. 
Dodgers manager Dave Roberts has only turned to Jansen for more than one inning twice in the first two playoff series. He made three appearances of at least two innings last year, so his arm should be ready to handle a greater workload in the World Series if the situation arises. 
On the list of potential MVP candidates, there are no shortage of stars to choose from. Jansen isn't quite a sleeper contender, but his level of dominance and ability to pitch in virtually every game will give him a strong edge for the Dodgers. 
Odds via OddsShark.com



The Fall Classic is upon us and features two of the three best teams from the regular season in the Houston Astros and Los Angeles Dodgers. That has set up an intriguing World Series matchup, with Game 1 scheduled for Tuesday night.
We'll break down the viewing information for that game and preview the series below.
        
When: Tuesday, Oct. 24 at 8:09 p.m. ET
Where: Dodger Stadium, Los Angeles
Watch: Fox
Stream: Fox Sports Go
         
Preview

Dodgers starting pitcher Clayton Kershaw knows that more than just a title is on the line in the World Series—the team's place in history and in the collective memory of baseball fans everywhere is also at stake.
"I guess my first like real memory is probably the Yankees in the late '90s, early 2000, winning maybe three in a row or something like that," Kershaw said of his World Series memories, per Paul Sullivan of the Chicago Tribune.
"I remember that pretty well. I remember when the Arizona Diamondbacks won 2001. So I guess the point is that I remember. You remember watching. You remember who went to the World Series. Unless you're a real baseball fan, you (don't) remember who loses, so we need to win."
History is written by the victors, as the old saying goes. It's also written about the victors far more often. 
But for the Astros, there are real-life implications to this particular World Series as well, as the city of Houston recovers from the devastating flooding caused by Hurricane Harvey. Per Sullivan, Justin Verlander further elaborated upon that point:
"I've touched on this before about having the experience of playing into a World Series with a city that kind of needed a boost and something to cheer for. And there's a lot of people that are really hurting right now in this city. And it gives the city something to rally around and gives people something to cheer for that otherwise may not have a lot to be hopeful for.
"And to be part of that, no matter how big or small it is, whether you're the MVP or whether you are the last pitcher in the bullpen, that's something that you will never forget, and how this city embraces all of that, I'll never forget."
Sometimes, the games are more than just games. 
As for those games themselves, however, they'll likely break down according to a few key battles. Most notably, the Dodgers bring a fantastic rotation and bullpen against Houston's devastating lineup. 
In Kershaw, Yu Darvish, Rich Hill and Alex Wood, the Dodgers have the clear advantage in starting pitching. On the other hand, no pitcher in baseball is hotter than Verlander right now, who has gone 9-0 since joining the Astros and is 4-0 this postseason with a 1.46 ERA and 24 strikeouts in 24.2 innings.
The Dodgers also hold the advantage in the bullpen, relying on pitchers like Kenta Maeda, Brandon Morrow and Kenley Jansen to close out games. Those three have given up just one unearned run this postseason.
The Astros have struggled once games go beyond their starting pitchers, meanwhile, with a 5.03 ERA this postseason. Unless they suddenly improve, the Astros will need pitchers like Verlander, Dallas Keuchel (the team's Game 1 starter), Lance McCullers Jr. and Charlie Morton to go deep into games.
On the other hand, the Astros had baseball's best lineup in 2017, led by Carlos Correa, Jose Altuve and George Springer. Altuve, in particular, has been clutch in the postseason, raking five homers and eight RBI while hitting .400. 
Correa believes Altuve is the best player going at the moment.
"He’s the MVP," Correa said of Altuve, per Adam Spolane of CBS Houston. "He’s the best player in the league right now, he showed it all year long, he’s very special."
"Best hitter on the planet," Correa added. "Nothing impresses me anymore."
Players like Altuve and Correa will be key for the Astros. If they can solve the Dodgers' starting pitching and bullpen and the offense continues clicking, the Astros have the ability to out-slug the Dodgers. While LA's offense is also dangerous, the Astros have tortured opposing pitchers all season long.
Of course, never underestimate the ability of a player like Yasiel Puig to come up big in a clutch moment for the Dodgers.
"[Puig's] been incredible this postseason," shortstop Corey Seager noted, per Beth Harris of the Associated Press. "It reminds me a lot of when he kind of came up in '13. He played with freedom. He played with passion. He really looked like he enjoyed himself, enjoyed playing the game. He wanted to be in the big moments, and he's been in the big moments this postseason and he's come through for us."
Still, the Dodgers will have the greatest advantage if the series evolves into a collection of pitching duels. With Kershaw on the mound in Game 1, the game's best pitcher—depending on whom you ask, of course—can set the tone for the rest of the series. 
Hill certainly believes that Kershaw has the ability to inspire his teammates, on and off the field.
"When you're around a guy like that who is passionate and intense and loves what they do every single day, you can't help but have that seep into your own game," he told Jenifer Langosch of MLB.com. "It's his constant pursuit of perfection. It's his intensity in the weight room. It's his continued preparation in his bullpens. His passion for the game is something that everybody can feed off of in the locker room, and everyone does."
In Game 1, the Dodgers would settle for feeding off his dominance.



The Los Angeles Dodgers are turning to right-hander Brandon McCarthy for pitching depth in the 2017 World Series against the Houston Astros.
On Tuesday, prior to Game 1 at Dodger Stadium at 8:09 p.m. ET, Bill Shaikin of the Los Angeles Times reported the Dodgers left Curtis Granderson off their 25-man roster for the Fall Classic in favor of McCarthy. 
Granderson was on Los Angeles' 25-man roster for the National League Division Series and National League Championship Series. 
Shortstop Corey Seager, who was left off the NLCS roster with a back injury, is expected to be on the World Series roster, per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports.
Dodgers manager Dave Roberts is going with a 34-year-old McCarthy who hasn't pitched in a game since the regular-season finale Oct. 1. He threw two innings in relief in a 6-3 win over the Colorado Rockies.
Granderson is just 1-for-15 with eight strikeouts in six games this postseason. The 36-year-old outfielder struggled after an August trade from the New York Mets to the Dodgers, posting a .161/.288/.366 slash line in 36 regular-season games. 


On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
9-year-old Loren Jade is a huge Oakland A's fan. When tragedy struck his family's home in California, his hometown team responded in a major way.
Watch above to see how the MLB is rallying around its young fan.
Bleacher Report is your No. 1 stop for what’s trending in sports. You can count on B/R for all the hottest stories. From wild sports to the next big thing, don’t miss out.
Download the free Bleacher Report app to catch all the moments that matter in one place. Get the app to get the game.



Players like Yu Darvish, Jake Arrieta, Mike Moustakas, Wade Davis and Eric Hosmer are among the big names set to become free agents this winter, and they justifiably will dominate the MLB rumor mill in the weeks to come.
But what about the less buzzworthy free agents? Where do we stand on some of the players who could be potential steals for the teams who sign them?
Let's break it down.
         
CC Sabathia and Todd Frazier

Let's start with CC Sabathia. On Oct. 12, Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reported that "the Yankees would like to bring him back on a one-year deal, if possible—though the way he's pitched, there will be outside interest."
Joel Sherman of the New York Post believes the interest will be mutual:
"Still, I think Sabathia wants to stay and would do it on a one-year deal that would not be overly burdensome and, if so, bring him back. It allows the stashing of depth that is always needed. Sabathia has transformed himself to a valuable five-, six-inning starter. Plus, he is revered in the clubhouse and with so much youth around, veterans such as [Brett] Gardner and Sabathia remain valuable."
The Yankees perspective on a reunion is clear: Sabathia is a veteran leader who can provide a solid middle-of-the-rotation arm. 
"He's as good as I've ever been around when it comes to a clubhouse guy, a guy that will take the ball when you're on a losing streak or that you can count on," manager Joe Girardi after Game 7, per Mike Axisa of CBSSports.com. "Our players can learn a lot from CC. The kind of fighter that he is. The things that he has to overcome to be successful."
He wasn't just good in the clubhouse, however; he was also good on the mound. Last year, Sabathia finished 14-5 with a 3.69 ERA, 1.27 WHIP and 120 strikeouts in 148.2 innings pitched. The 37-year-old went 1-1 in four postseason appearances with a 2.37 ERA, 1.37 WHIP and 19 strikeouts in 19 innings.
That kind of production in the middle of your rotation is valuable.
But the Yankees probably offer Sabathia as much as he offers them. They have a talented young team and, of course, offer all the amenities a successful and lucrative organization brings to its players. It's little secret the Yankees are a desired destination.
Perhaps more importantly, however, the Yankees are beginning their ascent, loaded with potential superstars and a stocked farm system. They'll be one of the American League favorites heading into 2018 and may offer Sabathia as good a chance to win another World Series title as any other organization.
Fellow Yankee and pending free agent Todd Frazier perhaps said it best.
"You look at the youth of this team, my god," he noted, per Steve Politi of NJ.com. "From our first baseman [Greg Bird] to our right fielder [Aaron Judge] to Didi [Gregorius], I could just name four or five guys that didn't even make the roster that are still going to be biting at the bit. It's going to be a good Yankee team for a while."
He added, "This is the best group I've been around in baseball, to be honest with you. You see these guys giving hugs to everybody and obviously tears...it's a great group, it's a fun group to be around. The way the Yankee organization brought me in like one of their own straight from the get-go, I couldn't be happier."
Sabathia's interest in returning to the Yankees is suspected but unknown. Frazier was more forthright.
"I would love to be back here," he said. "I've said that numerous times."
Sabathia seems like a lock to return to the Yankees. But given some of the young talent the Yankees are looking to find a place for—Gleyber Torres, most notably—keeping Frazier is likely a much lower priority for the team.
Prediction: Sabathia returns; Frazier signs elsewhere.
       
Greg Holland

The St. Louis Cardinals need a closer. Seung Hwan Oh posted 20 saves last year but blew four opportunities and had a 4.10 ERA. Trevor Rosenthal missed the final month-and-a-half of the season after undergoing Tommy John surgery. 
Suffice to say, the team is keen to address the position. 
"The top priority this offseason is closer, and that pitcher will most likely come from outside the organization," the team's president of baseball operations, John Mozeliak, told the Tim McKernan Show.
Veteran free agent Greg Holland would appear to fit the bill. On Oct. 12, Bob Nightengale of USA Today reported that the Cardinals "plan to pounce" on Holland in free agency. Yes, the team could splash the cash for a player like Wade Davis, but they stayed out of last offseason bidding war for players like Aroldis Chapman, Mark Melancon and Kenley Jansen. 
So Holland is probably more in their price bracket. While he had his ups and downs in 2017, he finished the year with 41 saves in 45 opportunities, a 3.61 ERA, 1.15 WHIP and 70 strikeouts in 57.1 innings.
If the Cardinals are truly intent on pouncing on Holland—and the marriage would certainly be a logical one—it's easy to see Holland coming off the market quickly.
Prediction: Cardinals sign Holland.
         
Jonathan Lucroy

Will Jonathan Lucroy return to the Colorado Rockies? According to Thomas Harding of MLB.com, both parties want a reunion.
"It's always great to be involved in a team that's hunting the same goal, hunting the same thing—a championship ring," Lucroy said before the Rockies' 11-8 National League Wild Card Game loss to the D-backs. "The positive side for this club is, it's just going to make them better for next year, and for years after that."
Harding wrote: "Lucroy is headed for free agency, but the Rockies are expected to attempt to turn his 'them' into 'us.'"
Lucroy certainly thrived once he joined the Rockies in August, hitting .310 with six homers and 40 RBI in 46 games. That, in turn, helped lead the Rockies to the postseason. 
Keeping a veteran slugger in the middle of the lineup like Lucroy would certainly keep the Rockies in the hunt for another trip to the playoffs.
Patrick Saunders of the Denver Post believes Lucroy will probably need to prepare himself for a bit of pay cut, however, noting that "his payday is likely to come down considerably. It’s reasonable to think Lucroy could get a three-year deal, a bit more lucrative than the $24.5 million contract Minnesota awarded Jason Castro." 
If the Rockies are willing to offer the 31-year-old that type of contract—and if Lucroy is willing to sign for that price point, likely below his market value before he stumbled to a slow start in 2017 with the Texas Rangers—a reunion seems more than feasible.
Lucroy will have his share of suitors. The Rockies may find themselves in a bit of a bidding war. But Lucroy thrived in Colorado, and the Rockies have a talented core. Returning to Colorado if the price is right makes sense.
Prediction: Lucroy re-signs.



The Los Angeles Dodgers will stand in unison for the United States national anthem before Game 1 of the World Series against the Houston Astros on Tuesday night at Dodger Stadium.
TMZ Sports reported none of the Dodgers plan to take a knee during the anthem as a form of protest and team management hasn't even discussed the issue with the players.
No member of the Los Angeles organization has protested during the anthem throughout the 2017 season. Oakland Athletics catcher Bruce Maxwell was the only MLB player to follow the lead of numerous NFL players and other athletes by kneeling to make a statement about racial injustice.
Dodgers manager Dave Roberts explained his view of the potential protests last month.
"Personally, yeah, I'd have a problem because my father served this country for 30 years and I understand—I can appreciate any player's individual, however they act, and that's personal," he told reporters. "But I would just ask every person to really be educated. When you make a point, something like that—and it's been in baseball. It's been in sports. But the thing is, really think long and hard, and really be educated on why you're doing what you're doing. After that it's each individual player's decision."
Although the issue started to take center stage during the 2016 NFL preseason, when former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick started the movement, it's once again become a hot-button topic due to polarizing comments by President Donald Trump.
The response has varied by sport. The reigning NBA champion Golden State Warriors opted against visiting the White House to celebrate their 2017 title, while the NHL champion Pittsburgh Penguins made the standard trip to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
So far, there's been no confirmation of the Astros' plans for Tuesday night's World Series opener.
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron



The Los Angeles Dodgers and their 29-year World Series drought take on the Houston Astros, who are looking for their first title in franchise history, starting Tuesday in the 2017 World Series. 
Both Fall Classic participants have achieved success in different ways, but both have always had the ultimate goal of hoisting a trophy in mind. 
The final chapter in an extraordinary journey will be written for one of these stories, while the other team will experience the anguish of falling just short of the ultimate goal.
Game 1 TV and Live Stream Info
Start Time: 8:09 p.m. ET
TV: Fox
Live Stream: Fox Sports Go
Pitching Matchup: Dallas Keuchel (Houston) vs. Clayton Kershaw (Los Angeles) 
The Astros and Dodgers are staying true to their respective postseason rotations by using their aces for Game 1. 
Dallas Keuchel enters Game 1 of the World Series with a 1.78 postseason ERA and the trust of manager A.J. Hinch that he can put in a good performance before the Astros toss Justin Verlander out on the mound for Game 2. 
The Houston southpaw will be facing most of the Dodgers lineup for the first time. Jake Kaplan of the Houston Chronicle pointed out how little experience Keuchel has against his opponents: 
Astros WS Game 1 starter Dallas Keuchel has never before pitched against the Dodgers and has faced only three players on their roster. https://t.co/dEiG1cqAws
Kershaw's goal is clear in Game 1 and for the rest of the series when his name is called. The powerful lefthander, who many regard as one of the best pitchers of his generation, will try to create new memories for Dodgers fans. Kershaw talked about that with Bill Shaikin of the Los Angeles Times: 
Clayton Kershaw: "I hope, after this week is over, they can start talking about 2017 a lot more and 1988 a lot less."
The biggest question for either team entering the best-of-seven series was the health of Dodgers shortstop Corey Seager, who missed the NLCS with a back injury. Seager confirmed with Andy McCullough of the Los Angeles Times that he's ready to go: 
"I'm good to go," Corey Seager said.
Seager hit .295 with 22 home runs and 77 RBI in the regular season and added two RBI in the NLDS against the Arizona Diamondbacks. Even if he doesn't produce in Game 1, the Dodgers have an extra bat in the lineup that Keuchel has to be cautious around. 
Houston's order won't be easy to stop for Kershaw as it comes in on the heels of two dramatic wins at home to clinch the American League pennant. Jose Altuve will grab most of the attention from the casual fans, and there's a decent chance he does well in Game 1 since he hit .353 against lefthanders in the regular season. 
Carlos Correa hit .391 in the regular season against lefties in 92 at-bats, while George Springer recorded a .301 average versus southpaws in 133 regular-season at-bats. 
If the game comes down to the bullpen, the Dodgers have the advantage based on postseason success. The Dodgers bullpen led by closer Kenley Jansen was dominant in the 4-1 NLCS win over the Chicago Cubs. The relievers walked one player and gave up four hits against 58 batters, per MLB Stat of the Day on Twitter: 
The @Dodgers bullpen in the 2017 #NLCS:
58 batters faced
4 H
1 BB
0.00 ERA
0.294 WHIP

WOW. https://t.co/wM75TZ6aoD
Houston's bullpen didn't have the same success against the New York Yankees, as Luke Gregerson and Francisco Liriano were the only Astros pitchers to not give up a run. If Keuchel pitches with the lead and gets into the seventh or eighth, Gregerson will be the man to set up for closer Ken Giles. However, Giles isn't as much of a lock to secure a victory as Jansen, as he gave up three earned runs on five hits in the ALCS. 
All statistics obtained from MLB.com.
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90.



A battle of former Cy Young Award winners will take place in Game 1 of the 2017 World Series on Tuesday as the National League champion Los Angeles Dodgers host the American League champion Houston Astros as solid home favorites. The Dodgers will send three-time NL Cy Young winner Clayton Kershaw to the mound in the opener opposite Dallas Keuchel of the Astros.
                      
Betting line: The Dodgers opened as -155 favorites (wager $155 to win $100); the total is at seven runs, according to sportsbooks monitored by OddsShark. Line updates and matchup report.
MLB betting pick, via OddsShark computer: 5.1-0.4, Dodgers (MLB picks on every game)
                        
Why the Astros can pay on the MLB lines
While Los Angeles might have the best pitcher in the series in Kershaw, Houston might have the top one-two punch with Keuchel and Justin Verlander, a pair of Cy Young Award winners from 2015 and 2011, respectively.
Keuchel has not been as dominant as Verlander this postseason, but he was outstanding against the New York Yankees in Game 1 of the AL Championship Series, pitching seven scoreless innings with one walk and 10 strikeouts en route to a 2-1 victory. He was shaky in Game 5 last Wednesday but was not needed in relief in the two games that followed and should be well-rested for this monster matchup.
                   
Why the Dodgers can pay on the MLB lines
Kershaw has exorcised some playoff demons by getting to the World Series for the first time in his illustrious career, but the Dodgers still have not seen his best stuff yet. That has to be at least somewhat promising, especially after his most impressive outing of the postseason versus the Chicago Cubs in Game 5 of the NLCS.
Although Kershaw surrendered a home run in his eighth consecutive start dating back to the regular season, he limited Chicago to just two other hits in six innings with one walk and five strikeouts as Los Angeles eliminated the defending World Series champs.
                   
Smart betting pick
The Astros and Dodgers have not seen much of each other recently, squaring off only three times since the former joined the AL in 2013. Houston swept a three-game home series back in 2015 after dropping eight of the previous 10 meetings.
Los Angeles is more well-rested, but that has worked against teams in the past. Just ask Verlander after his Detroit Tigers swept the Yankees in the 2012 ALCS and then were swept by the San Francisco Giants in the World Series. Look for the Astros to get to Kershaw early and steal Game 1 in an upset.
                 
MLB betting trends
Houston is 13-5 in its last 18 games.
Houston is 1-4 in its last five games on the road.
Los Angeles is 9-1 in its last 10 games.
              
All MLB odds and betting trends courtesy of Bleacher Report's official odds partner, OddsShark. All quotes gathered firsthand unless otherwise noted. Check out Twitter for injury and line-movement updates and the OddsShark YouTube page for picks and analysis, or download the free odds tracker app.



If you're not a fan of the Houston Astros or Los Angeles Dodgers, your team has packed it in for the year and you might already be looking ahead to the 2018 MLB season.
You could watch the World Series as a baseball fan without any rooting interest in either club, but where's the fun in that?
We've taken a crack at picking which team each of the 28 fanbases without a representative should root for when the World Series begins Tuesday night.
In some cases, it was a simple matter of cheering on a former player such as Braves fans with Evan Gattis and Rays fans with Logan Forsythe.
Other teams took more digging, though.
Is the lopsided trade that sent Kenny Lofton from Houston to Cleveland some 26 years ago reason enough for Indians fans to pay it forward by temporarily jumping on the Astros' bandwagon?
I don't see why not.
What follows is a fun look at some connections that each eliminated team has to the two World Series participants.

Baltimore Orioles: Los Angeles Dodgers
The Orioles may not have a recent vested interest in either team, but they do have the Dodgers to thank for their first World Series title back in 1966.
The O's tossed three shutouts at the Dodgers in a four-game series sweep, and Frank Robinson took home World Series MVP over a Sandy Koufax- and Don Drysdale-led Dodgers squad.
       
Boston Red Sox: Houston Astros
Red Sox fans will have a chance to see future manager Alex Cora in action in what will be his final days as bench coach for the Astros after he agreed to a three-year deal to replace John Farrell.
Cora also spent parts of four seasons with the Red Sox during his 14-year MLB career and was a utility infielder on the 2007 squad that won the World Series.
The 42-year-old has just one year of coaching experience, as he previously served as an analyst for ESPN following his retirement in 2011.
                
New York Yankees: Houston Astros
The Dodgers/Yankees rivalry is not what it used to be, but at its peak, it was one of the best in pro sports.
The teams met in the World Series six times in a span of 10 years in the late 1940s and early 1950s, and they've matched up 11 different times in the Fall Classic—most recently in 1981.
With a young Yankees team on the rise and the Dodgers seemingly built for long-term success, it's a rivalry we could see renewed in the years to come.
      
Tampa Bay Rays: Los Angeles Dodgers
Logan Forsythe was a fan favorite during his three seasons with the Rays as he went from a utility infielder to one of the most productive offensive second basemen in the league.
The 30-year-old was traded to the Dodgers this past offseason for pitching prospect Jose De Leon and will split time with Chase Utley at second base in the World Series.
             
Toronto Blue Jays: Los Angeles Dodgers
Finding a connection between either team and the Blue Jays was tricky, so this one is a bit of a stretch.
But Blue Jays fans can credit the Dodgers for an ill-advised 1987 trade that sent infielder Mike Sharperson to Los Angeles for a young right-hander by the name of Juan Guzman.
Guzman went on to win 76 games in parts of eight seasons in Toronto while coming up big in the postseason, where he went 5-1 with a 2.44 ERA in eight starts to help the team to World Series titles in 1992 and 1993.

Chicago White Sox: Houston Astros
As the White Sox undergo the early stages of what figures to be a lengthy rebuild, seeing the Astros suiting up in the World Series should bring back fond memories of 2005.
The South Siders steamrolled the Astros in the World Series that season, sweeping them in four games behind terrific pitching and two of the unlikeliest home runs in MLB postseason history off the bats of Scott Podsednik and Geoff Blum.
The chance to reminisce about those moments should be enough to add a few more fans to the Houston corner.
      
Cleveland Indians: Houston Astros
Willie Blair and Eddie Taubensee.
That's all it cost the Indians to acquire speedy outfielder Kenny Lofton from the Astros prior to the 1992 season.
Lofton would go on to play 10 seasons with the Tribe, hitting .300 and swiping 452 bases while posting 48.5 WAR with the team.
Reason enough for Indians fans to pay it forward and root for the Astros to win it all?
      
Detroit Tigers: Houston Astros
This is one of the more obvious choices.
There are still plenty of Justin Verlander fans in Detroit after he spent the first 12-and-a-half seasons of his career in a Tigers uniform.
The 34-year-old won Rookie of the Year, Cy Young and MVP awards during his Tigers tenure and helped lead the team to World Series appearances in 2006 and 2012.
And if the prospects that were acquired in that August trade—most notably Franklin Perez, Jake Rogers and Daz Cameron—can reach their respective ceilings, it will help the impending rebuild tremendously.
                 
Kansas City Royals: Houston Astros
There are plenty of Royals fans who still have a soft spot for Carlos Beltran and would love to see him win a ring.
The 40-year-old slugger was a second-round pick by the Royals in 1995, and he won AL Rookie of the Year honors in 1999.
Kansas City traded him to the Astros in 2004 ahead of his impending free agency, and he's now back for a second go-around in Houston on a one-year deal.
Might he end his career where it started by re-signing with the Royals this winter? 
     
Minnesota Twins: Los Angeles Dodgers
Twins fans can thank the Dodgers front office for not pushing harder to acquire Brian Dozier this offseason, despite well-reported interest.
Unwilling to move the All-Star second baseman for a package built around Jose De Leon, the Twins instead wound up holding on to Dozier, who was once again among the most productive hitters in the AL.
Without his .856 OPS, 34 home runs and 4.4 WAR, the Twins likely wouldn't have made that surprise run to a wild-card spot.

Los Angeles Angels: Houston Astros
The Freeway Series is more of a geographical rivalry than anything else, but it's still enough of a rivalry to have a name. That's something, right?
The Astros were also nice enough to pass on Mike Trout at No. 21 in the 2009 draft. The Dodgers didn't have a pick until No. 36, so they don't get credit for letting the generational talent fall into the Angels' laps.
                  
Oakland Athletics: Houston Astros
Josh Reddick was a fan favorite during his five seasons with the A's, winning a Gold Glove Award and posting 16.8 WAR during his time with the team. Now he'll be the starting right fielder for the Astros in the World Series.
The A's also lost to the Dodgers in the 1988 World Series, a postseason that gave us the famous Kirk Gibson home run that Oakland fans are forced to rewatch every October.
That's plenty of reason for them to pull for the Astros.
               
Seattle Mariners: Los Angeles Dodgers
If you're a Mariners fan, are you happy to see Chris Taylor succeeding elsewhere or upset that he never reached his potential in Seattle (86 games from 2014 to 2016)?
We'll go with the former and say Mariners fans should pull for the Dodgers as the 2012 fifth-round pick has emerged as a true difference-maker atop the lineup and in center field.
Setup man Brandon Morrow also has Mariners ties. He was Seattle's first-round pick in 2006 before being traded to the Blue Jays for reliever Brandon League—another eventual Dodger.
               
Texas Rangers: Los Angeles Dodgers
Yu Darvish turned out to be well worth the six-year, $56 million deal and $51.7 million posting fee it cost the Rangers to sign him when he made his way stateside from the Nippon Ham Fighters of the Japanese League.
Now he's pitching alongside Clayton Kershaw, Rich Hill and Alex Wood in the Dodgers rotation, and he'll give Rangers fans a familiar face to root for when he takes the mound in Game 3.
The Astros and Rangers also dealt with unpleasantness earlier this season when the benches cleared during a May series in Houston, so there's no love lost between those two clubs.

Atlanta Braves: Houston Astros
Admit it, Braves fans, you miss El Oso Blanco.
Evan Gattis came out of nowhere in 2013 as a 26-year-old rookie who took a circuitous path to MLB success, hitting 21 home runs and endearing himself to fans as an old-school slugger with a "grip it and rip it" approach.
After two seasons with the Braves, he was traded to the Astros in the deal that sent Mike Foltynewicz the other way. Gattis undoubtedly still has plenty of backers in Atlanta.
      
Miami Marlins: Houston Astros
The Marlins and Dodgers endured a bench-clearing incident earlier this season when Ross Stripling threw a pitch behind Giancarlo Stanton in retaliation for outfielder Brett Eibner's plunking the previous inning.
Miami manager Don Mattingly, who managed the Dodgers from 2011 to 2015, took offense to L.A.'s swinging on 3-0 counts with a five-run lead in that game and voiced his displeasure to the media afterward.
Kenley Jansen's recent trip to free agency is also a sore spot here.
The All-Star closer was the Marlins' top offseason target before he reupped with the Dodgers on a five-year, $80 million deal that was reportedly less than the Marlins offered, per Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports.
              
New York Mets: Houston Astros
You'd better believe Mets fans haven't forgotten that Chase Utley slide that left Ruben Tejada sidelined with a broken leg.
The Mets still came out on top in that 2015 NLDS matchup on their way to winning the NL pennant, but that hasn't stopped fans from booing Utley every chance they get.
      
Philadelphia Phillies: Los Angeles Dodgers
Mets fans might not like Utley, but he's nothing short of a legend in Philadelphia.
The 38-year-old racked up 61.5 WAR in his 13 seasons with the team, making six All-Star Game trips, winning four Silver Slugger Awards and helping lead the team to five division titles and a World Series win in 2008.
Utley also posted a .902 OPS with 10 home runs and 25 RBI in 46 career postseason games with Philadelphia. He'll forever be a fan favorite in Philly.
                   
Washington Nationals: Houston Astros
The Dodgers ended the Nationals' season in the 2016 NLDS.
They also ended the then-Expos' season in the 1981 NLCS, although that's probably of little consequence to fans south of the Canadian border.
Still, there's no negative link between the Astros and Nationals since the latter franchise moved from Montreal to Washington in 2005, so those two season-ending losses are enough to put Nationals fans squarely in Houston's corner.

Chicago Cubs: Houston Astros
Once time passes, Cubs fans will be able to look back and realize the better team won the 2017 NLCS.
Those wounds are a little too fresh to expect any North Siders to root for the Dodgers in the World Series, though.
There's something to be said for the whole "beaten by the best" mindset, but it's safe to assume Cubbie blue won't shift to Dodger blue this October.
             
Cincinnati Reds: Houston Astros
Where would the Big Red Machine have been without Joe Morgan?
The Reds acquired the Hall of Fame second baseman from the Astros prior to the 1972 season, and he promptly went from average everyday player to legitimate superstar.
In his eight seasons with the Reds, he made the NL All-Star team every year, won a pair of NL MVP awards, helped the team to three NL pennants and two World Series titles and posted 57.8 WAR.
Without that eight-player trade that sent Lee May to Houston, those great Reds teams might not have happened.
              
Milwaukee Brewers: Houston Astros
The Brewers swung a deal with the Astros at the 2015 trade deadline that signaled the beginning of rebuilding efforts in Milwaukee.
Carlos Gomez and Mike Fiers went to Houston in exchange for four prospects.
Domingo Santana (.875 OPS, 30 HR, 85 RBI) and left-hander Josh Hader (35 G, 12 HLD, 2.08 ERA, 12.8 K/9) were included in that package, and both played a significant role in the team's 2017 success.
Thanks, Houston.
                     
Pittsburgh Pirates: Los Angeles Dodgers
There's not much of a link between the Pirates and this year's participants, but there are two former Pirates suiting up in the series—Charlie Morton (HOU) and Tony Watson (LAD)
Morton had his moments in Pittsburgh, but his three-year, $21 million extension signed in December 2013 was largely a bust.
On the other hand, Watson was one of the league's best setup relievers during his seven seasons in Pittsburgh, as he made good as a ninth-round pick and earned an All-Star trip in 2014.
Advantage to Watson and the Dodgers.
                
St. Louis Cardinals: Los Angeles Dodgers
The Dodgers and Astros have both eliminated the Cardinals from the playoffs in the last 20 years, but it's the 2005 NLCS that still stands out above other postseason meetings.
The Cardinals won an MLB-high 100 games that season and made short work of the Padres with a three-game sweep in the NLDS. They were the clear favorites while facing an 89-win Astros team with the NL pennant on the line.
However, after taking Game 1, the Cardinals dropped three straight, including a pair of heartbreaking one-run losses. The Astros eventually took the series in six games.
The Chicago White Sox then swept Houston in the World Series, leaving Cardinals fans to wonder what could have been.

Arizona Diamondbacks: Houston Astros
Diamondbacks fans have not forgotten the Dodgers' celebration in the Chase Field swimming pool when they clinched the NL West title in 2013.
In fact, the D-backs and Dodgers rivalry has had plenty of heated moments over the years, including a memorable brawl that saw coaches Don Mattingly, Alan Trammell, Mark McGwire, Kirk Gibson and Matt Williams all involved.
That the D-backs signed Zack Greinke away in free agency also didn't help the situation.
           
Colorado Rockies: Los Angeles Dodgers
Any diehard Charlie Culberson fans out there?
The utility infielder, who stepped into a bigger role in the NLCS with Corey Seager sidelined due to a strained back, spent 2013 and 2014 with the Rockies, but it wasn't exactly a memorable tenure.
A better reason for Rockies fans to root for the Dodgers might be the fact that the Astros have two talented pitchers the Rockies let slip through the cracks: Collin McHugh and Will Harris.
Both players were lost for nothing to waiver claims, and no one likes to be reminded of those that got away.
     
San Diego Padres: Houston Astros
The Padres have their own contentious recent history with the Dodgers.
Benches cleared when the teams met in June, and managers Dave Roberts and Andy Green were both ejected after they had to be separated.
It all started when Dodgers starting pitcher Alex Wood accused Padres outfielder Jose Pirela of stealing signs from second base. Wood then allegedly threatened to hit Padres outfielder Manuel Margot, who was in the batter's box at the time, as a result.
     
San Francisco Giants: Houston Astros
The Dodgers and Giants have one of the best rivalries in all of sports. Enough said.
                   
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, unless otherwise noted.



LOS ANGELES — All over town, all summer long, expectations expanded along with the Los Angeles Dodgers' record, growing ever larger until they delivered themselves into the aisles of the city's grocery stores and steamed into coffee shops.
Starter Rich Hill noticed it when he ducked into his neighborhood market.
Keep fighting, his fellow shoppers would tell him. Keep it going.
For low-key reliever Brandon Morrow, it was when he came and went in his apartment building.
"People would give you a fist bump when you're coming in," Morrow says. "People are pretty excited about it. And everybody at the ballpark, we interact with them more, obviously. They not only work at the ballpark, they're fans. They're there every day and, man, the excitement within the ballpark staff is awesome."
This is the year, Angelenos tell their Dodgers.
And as Clayton Kershaw and Co. prepare for liftoff in the 113th World Series beginning Tuesday night against the Houston Astros at Dodger Stadium, it seems clear: If this isn't the Dodgers' year, it might never be their year.
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
At 104-58, these guys finished with the best record in baseball for the first time since 1974. The 104 wins were their most since they moved from Brooklyn in 1958 and tied for the second-most in franchise history (the 1942 club finished 104-50; the franchise record is 105-49 in 1953).
"It was awesome to do this, but we're not going to sit down and say, 'Ah, we got to the World Series," utility man Enrique Hernandez, the three-homer, seven-RBI Game 5 National League Championship Series hero, says. "That's not our goal. It's never been our goal.

"The goal is to win the World Series. If we get there and don't win, the season is worth nothing."
Kershaw, whom manager Dave Roberts predictably named as his Game 1 starter, is a once-in-a-generation talent often compared with Dodgers Hall of Fame lefty Sandy Koufax.
The Dodgers shelled out big bucks to re-sign three of their own free agents last offseason in closer Kenley Jansen (five years, $80 million), third baseman Justin Turner (four years, $64 million) and Hill (three years, $48 million) and maintain the game's highest payroll at $265.1 million (including money owed to those not on the active roster, like Carl Crawford and Scott Kazmir). They're loaded with young talent such as Cody Bellinger, Corey Seager and Austin Barnes.
And after years of saddling Kershaw with what proved to be a too-heavy load in October, they went all-in at the July trade deadline in acquiring Yu Darvish. It was a deft and needed move, especially after young phenom Julio Urias, projected internally and externally to be the Dodgers' next-best starter behind Kershaw by now, was felled by a season-ending shoulder injury in June.
In his third season as the club's president of baseball operations, Andrew Friedman is living in a glitzy, movie star-studded different universe than he was in Tampa, where he was general manager of the Rays from 2005 to 2014. There, the expectations were that of a third-grade gym class compared to those in L.A., where Magic Johnson, Tommy Lasorda, Orel Hershiser, Kirk Gibson and Kobe Bryant have fed the locals championship trophies like street tacos.

Or at least they did baseball-wise, until, ahem...29 years ago.
"I don't think until you live it you can really know it," Friedman says. "You do the math, and ... it had been a long time [since the Dodgers' last World Series title, in 1988].
"But I don't think I appreciated the passion until living it every day, getting a cup of coffee and running into someone there and, at every turn, looking out every night and 50,000 people are there so consistently and with such passion."
The Dodgers' title quest has lasted so long and included so many false starts that not only have they built the most expensive and deepest roster in the game under the Guggenheim Baseball Group, but they also have constructed an All-Star roster of baseball executives. Friedman is assisted by general manager Farhan Zaidi (former assistant GM of the Oakland Athletics), Josh Byrnes (former GM of the San Diego Padres and Arizona Diamondbacks), Alex Anthopoulos (former GM of the Toronto Blue Jays) and Gerry Hunsicker (former GM of the Houston Astros).
As it does on the field, all that talent comes at an enormous price. Friedman's deal is worth $35 million plus incentives over five years, ESPN's Buster Olney reported, and you can bet his high-powered executive team isn't working for minimum wage, either.
The man whom Friedman replaced and who put much of the frame of this roster in place, Ned Colletti (Dodgers GM from 2006 to '14), remained employed by the club as a senior adviser to the president for a time and now serves as a broadcaster for the club.
All of this has gotten the Dodgers five consecutive National League West titles...and yet, all that's been worth is a bunch of coffee shop hipsters consistently reminding them that it's been, like, forever since this team has actually won a World Series.

When they trounced the defending World Series champion Chicago Cubs, the Dodgers were playing in their fifth NLCS in the past decade. They lost to the Cubs last year, and in the flamboyant Mannywood days with slugger Manny Ramirez, Matt Kemp and a young Kershaw, they lost consecutive NLCS to the Philadelphia Phillies in 2008 and 2009. In between were more playoff flameouts, more disappointments and more questions about whether Kershaw and his high-priced teammates could win in October.
Now Kershaw is 29, and he's got an opt-out clause in his contract that he can exercise following the 2018 season.
Granted, this team appears set up for the long haul with young stars like Seager and Bellinger, but, then again, when the New York Mets lost the 2015 World Series to the Kansas City Royals, they appeared in a good spot for the next many years with young pitching stars Matt Harvey, Noah Syndergaard, Jacob deGrom and Steven Matz. Look where that got them.
Forget the notion that the Dodgers haven't won a World Series since 1988.
They haven't even played in a World Series since then.
Every year spins differently, and through so many near misses in recent times, the Dodgers have kept spinning, trying their luck, making moves both big and small while attempting to cover the greatest distance in the game: the final few steps between near miss and World Series champions.
They let Zack Greinke walk after he opted out of his Dodgers deal, and Arizona swooped in at the last minute with a six-year, $206.5 million offer during the winter of 2015-16. Oh, they could have afforded to keep Greinke, but in the evaluation of Friedman and his team, that sixth year was a deal-breaker. And it would have been a case of deploying too many resources in one direction.
At the trade deadline last year, they acquired Hill, in the midst of a late-career breakout season, from Oakland. This year, the Darvish deal was big, but under-the-radar acquisitions for relievers Tony Watson and Tony Cingrani were key.

The comings and goings have been frequent: In a move that shocked the clubhouse last August, they traded catcher A.J. Ellis, Kershaw's best friend on the team. The reasoning was sound: Friedman and Co. felt the team needed to beef up its at-bats against left-handed pitchers, and the catcher they acquired from Philadelphia in the deal, veteran Carlos Ruiz, had better numbers than Ellis in that department.
Internally, the Dodgers continue to pull levers and push buttons, too. Unable to trade the then-disappointing Yasiel Puig at the deadline in 2016, they demoted him to Triple-A Oklahoma City (asked in Chicago last week which team he owed a debt of gratitude for not coughing up a big enough package to obtain Puig, Friedman quipped, "All 29"). This year, after obtaining veteran Curtis Granderson from the New York Mets, the corresponding move was to jettison center fielder Joc Pederson to Oklahoma City.
As Friedman explains, it's a fine line, accomplishing the task of not only collecting the right talent to win but also then making sure "everybody is reading off of the same song sheet."
"Part of being a Dodger is that if you're playing for this organization, you're expected to win," says Hernandez, acquired in Friedman's first big Dodgers deal, a trade that sent popular second baseman Dee Gordon to the Miami Marlins during the winter meetings in December 2014.
"You can't think of it as, 'Oooooh, we made the playoffs!' If you can't play [in the spotlight], they're going to find someone better."
In Friedman's final year running the Rays, the club operated with an $82.6 million payroll, ranked 27th among MLB's 30 clubs. What he has to work with now dwarfs that. But what hasn't changed is his overall team-building philosophy.
"I wondered coming over how that would work," Friedman says. "I think competition, in terms of the daily stakes each night, pursuing a free agent or chasing a trade, there's so many different avenues we're so focused on and hypercompetitive about. That's all that really matters, and the narrative doesn't really affect us very much.
"But I think the one thing that probably is my favorite thing about being with the Dodgers is having that many people who care so much about what we're doing. It fuels us. And when we're on the fence of being aggressive or not with what we're looking at, I think that contributes in a very positive way to doing everything we can."
Every night when Friedman, Roberts, Kershaw, Puig and the rest look out at the tens of thousands who pack Dodger Stadium, they can see why. This is the fifth consecutive season the Dodgers, who this year averaged 46,492 fans per game, led MLB in attendance.

"I have zero issues with high expectations," Friedman says. "In fact, I prefer them. It's much better than the alternative. It's been a long time since we've won a World Series in Los Angeles. That's what they want, and I don't blame them."
They all feel it. When backup shortstop Charlie Culberson's wife dropped him off at the stadium for a workout the other day, she went around to the team store in search of a Dodgers hair bow for the couple's five-year-old daughter. Sarah Culberson couldn't believe what she saw.
"She said the line at the team store wrapped around the stadium," Culberson said.
Yeah, you could say from the marquee stars on the team—like Kershaw and Turner—down to the man who replaced the injured Seager on the roster against the Cubs—Culberson—the Dodgers realize one thing: Just getting to this point isn't enough.
"It's an accomplishment, getting to the World Series," Culberson said. "But we're not done yet.
"[Beating the Cubs], that was the second-to-last step. We're here to win."
    
Scott Miller covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report. Follow Scott on Twitter and talk baseball.



It is not often that arguably the top two teams in the regular season end up meeting in the World Series, but that is just what we have in 2017.
The Houston Astros won the American League West with a 101-61 record, while the Los Angeles Dodgers claimed the National League West with a sparkling 104-58 mark. It is historically rare that two teams of this caliber navigated this far into the postseason, per ESPN Stats and Info:
This is the first matchup of 100-win teams in the World Series since 1970, when the 108-win Orioles beat the 102-win Reds.
What is not a surprise is that both teams will trot out elite starters for their Game 1 tilt. Add in a pair of elite offenses, and Tuesday should be the start of a must-watch series.
               
Game 1 Schedule
When: Tuesday, Oct. 24 at 8 p.m. ET
Television: Fox
Live Stream: Fox Sports Go
             
Game 1 Preview
There is perhaps no pitcher scarier to the opposition than Clayton Kershaw.
The best arm of this generation, Kershaw was outstanding again in 2017 with an 18-4 record along with a 2.31 ERA. In fact, he has posted an ERA under 2.15 in each of the last four seasons, so the Dodgers should feel pretty good about him throwing in Game 1.
Yet, his postseason play has attracted criticism, especially considering he has been roughed up for an ERA over 6.00 twice since 2009, and he allowed a pedestrian 12 earned runs in 24.1 innings in 2016. 
Pitching in the playoffs is difficult as it entails besting the top lineups in baseball. While Kershaw has not been untouchable in his postseason career, he has still been very good. He allowed just three runs in 11 innings in the NLCS, and his recent play has put him alongside another pitcher known for being clutch, per MLB Network's Jon Morosi:
Fact: Clayton Kershaw (8) has made more postseason quality starts than Madison Bumgarner (7) since 2013. @MLB @MLBNetwork
He has had some trouble against the current Astros lineup, though. Jose Altuve is an excellent 6-for-15 lifetime against Kershaw, including four doubles. Carlos Correa and Evan Gattis are also a combined 3-for-10 versus Kershaw.
While Kershaw could face some slight issues, he has much more room for error compared to his elite counterpart in Houston starter Dallas Keuchel.
Los Angeles' bullpen is brilliant, having ranked fourth in MLB with a 3.38 ERA in the regular season before following up with just three runs allowed in 28.2 postseason frames. 
Meanwhile, it took until Charlie Morton in Game 7 of the ALCS for any pitcher besides Keuchel and Justin Verlander to earn a win for the Astros. In the playoffs, the team's bullpen has been tattooed for 19 runs in 34 innings, and guys like Lance McCullers Jr., who threw four scoreless innings in the aforementioned Game 7, are not going to be available in relief on Tuesday.
Keuchel and any other Astros starter has to be perfect to earn a win, especially against a juggernaut like the Dodgers. It is not like Keuchel has a ton of experience with the Los Angeles lineup to lean on, per Jake Kaplan of the Houston Chronicle:
Astros WS Game 1 starter Dallas Keuchel has never before pitched against the Dodgers and has faced only three players on their roster. https://t.co/dEiG1cqAws
This could work to Keuchel's advantage since the Dodgers have not seen his stuff, but it will still be tough sledding for him and the Astros. 
The Dodgers have scored 48 runs in eight games, while the Astros have been formidable with 44 runs in 11 games. Still, Keuchel has to overcome a team with an equal or better offense, a much superior bullpen and a historically great starter.
Throw in the fact that Keuchel went from an ace with a 2.26 ERA at home this season compared to a mortal 3.53 ERA on the road, all signs point to a likely Dodgers win to open up this season.
                    
Statistics are courtesy of MLB.com unless noted otherwise.



The New York Yankees lost the seventh game of the American League Championship Series and won't be in the World Series, and there's palpable disappointment in the Big Apple.
A New York-Los Angeles series would have had a romantic feel, but the World Series that starts Tuesday in Los Angeles between the Dodgers and the Houston Astros may turn out to be a classic.
Both teams won more than 100 games this year, making this the first World Series since the 1970 battle between the Baltimore Orioles and Cincinnati Reds that featured both teams winning 100 or more regular-season games.
The Orioles won that series in five games as Brooks Robinson dominated and won the Series MVP award.
The Dodgers went through a horrific slump in late August and September when they lost 16 of 17 games, but they are clearly in top form as the series gets underway. They swept the Arizona Diamondbacks in the National League Division Series and beat the Chicago Cubs in the National League Championship Series.
The Astros earned their way into their second World Series by beating the Boston Red Sox in four games and recording an epic seven-game victory over the Yankees in the ALCS.
New York had a 3-2 lead after sweeping the three middle games of the series in the Bronx, but the Astros were undaunted and won Games 6 and 7 at Minute Maid Park.
           
Here's the World Series schedule:
Tuesday, October 24Astros at Dodgers, 8 p.m., FoxWednesday, October 25Astros at Dodgers, 8 p.m., Fox
Friday, October 27Dodgers at Astros, 8 p.m., Fox
Saturday, October 28Dodgers at Astros, 8 p.m., Fox
Sunday, October 29Dodgers at Astros, 8 p.m., Fox, if necessary
Tuesday, October 31Astros at Dodgers, 8 p.m., Fox, if necessary
Wednesday, November 1Astros at Dodgers, 8 p.m., Fox, if necessary
           
Hey bae 😍 https://t.co/9jQ6ULGyKP
The Dodgers will send ace Clayton Kershaw to the mound for Game 1, and he will be opposed by Dallas Keuchel. 
Kershaw has long been considered one of the best pitchers in the sport, but his postseason record has been somewhat disappointing throughout his career. He has a 6-7 career postseason record with a 4.40 ERA and 122 strikeouts in 106.1 innings.
However, he has been better this year with a 2-0 mark and a 3.63 earned-run average with 0.98 WHIP.
Keuchel is 2-1 in the postseason with 2.60 ERA and a 1.10 WHIP. He has a 4-1 career postseason record with a 2.59 ERA and 39 strikeouts in 31.1 career postseason innings.
Both sides have plenty of hitting, although the Astros struggled in the road games in the ALCS. However, when they were playing to stay alive, Houston got the clutch hitting it needed to win and move on.
.@JoseAltuve27 getting the home crowd HYPED. #Game7 https://t.co/vza0bJzJmV
MVP candidate Jose Altuve may be diminutive in stature at 5'6" and 165 pounds, but he has hammered five postseason home runs and has come up big in key moments.
Unsung Yuli Gurriel is hitting .366 with four doubles and one triple, while shortstop Carlos Correa has three home runs and nine RBI.
The Astros are hoping George Springer can get going after hitting just .233 to this point in the postseason. Josh Reddick has been in a dreadful slump, hitting just .171 in the postseason.
The Dodgers have been led by Justin Turner, who has been a relentless clutch hitter. He is hitting .387 in the postseason with three homers and 12 RBI. Yasiel Puig has been hitting line drives throughout the postseason, and he has a .414 average with 12 hits and six runs scored.
The Dodgers have gotten solid contributions from Enrique Hernandez (three homers in the Game 5 clincher versus Chicago), Cody Bellinger (two homers, four RBI) and Chris Turner (two homers, four RBI).
The Dodgers are also likely to have Corey Seager back in the lineup after he missed the NLCS with a back injury.
"Unless something really unforeseen happens, I don't see how he won't be active for us," manager Dave Roberts said, per Bradford Doolittle of ESPN.com.
            
Prediction
The Astros have had problems on the road in the postseason, winning just one game in Boston and losing four others.
However, when Keuchel takes the mound, the Astros have an edge whether they are playing at home or away. Look for him to be in top form against the Dodgers.
Kershaw and his team have made it to the Fall Classic after years of failure. While his postseason mark is questionable, he appears to be getting better. The World Series would be the perfect time to show off his best stuff.
It will happen but not in the first game. Look for the Astros to scratch out a few runs and win a low-scoring game. 
One loss will hurt the Dodgers, but it won't kill them. This will be a long series.



It's time for Bleacher Report's final positional power rankings for the 2017 Major League Baseball season to get out of the dirt and head for the outfield.
Now up are the season's top center fielders. Although there are arguably more than just 25 of them worth talking about, that's how many made the cut.
Here are the ground rules: 
The rankings were a simple judgment call. Baseball Reference's version of wins above replacement (WAR) is useful in this respect but will be treated more as a guideline than the word of the baseball gods.
Lastly, this is neither a far-reaching retrospective nor a gaze into the future. Only what happened in 2017 counts.

In the year 2017, it's ill-advised and arguably irresponsible to talk about players in detail without using statistics to contextualize their talents and shortcomings.
So, be warned: There are indeed statistics in these rankings.
Many stats will simply be alluded to via links that go to relevant data at Baseball Reference, FanGraphs, Baseball Savant, Brooks Baseball and Baseball Prospectus. But a few to know are...
                              
Wins Above Replacement (WAR): As a stat that puts a number on a player's hitting, baserunning and fielding contributions, WAR is a fine go-to in any circumstance.
On-Base Plus Slugging Plus (OPS+): This takes a player's OPS, adjusts it for league and ballpark factors and puts it on a scale where 100 represents average. It shows how well a hitter performed relative to his peers.
Defensive Runs Saved (DRS): It sounds like a measurement of a player's defensive quality, and that's what it is. It's the main defense component for Baseball Reference's version of WAR. Some play multiple positions, but the DRS listed for them here is that of their primary position.
Launch Angle: This Statcast specialty measures the angle of the ball off a hitter's bat. It provides a snapshot of the shape of a hitter's swing—i.e. whether it's flat and tailored for ground balls and line drives or lofty and tailored for fly balls. The MLB average in 2017 was 11.1 degrees.
Exit Velocity: Another Statcast specialty that measures the speed of the ball off a hitter's bat. As you'd expect, there's a strong correlation between high speeds and hitting success. The MLB average in 2017 was 86.6 miles per hour.
Plate Discipline: Although they'll rarely be mentioned explicitly, Swing% (percentage of swings at all pitches), Z-Swing% (in-zone swing percentage) and O-Swing% (out-of-zone swing percentage) paint a picture of a hitter's approach. These figures are found at FanGraphs.
Pull Percentage (Pull%): Also from FanGraphs, this shows the rate at which hitters pull the ball—to left field for righties and to right field for lefties. Pulling the ball is a double-edged sword: It can make a hitter vulnerable to shifts but is also by far the best avenue to power.

Age: 26
Key Stats: 106 G, 259 PA, .243/.319/.496, 121 OPS+, 16 HR, 9 SB, 0 DRS
WAR: 2.0
          
2017 Player Report
Jake Marisnick was only a part-time player who saw a healthy chunk of his action against left-handed pitching in 2017. So, take his inclusion here for what it's worth.
Yet it's to his credit that he didn't need the platoon advantage to produce. He joined the launch-angle revolution and put more balls in the air, which had the desired effect of increasing his power output.
It wasn't always pretty, however. Marsnick wasn't a source of explosive exit velocity, so a fair number of his air balls didn't go far. He also swung through enough pitches to post a career-worst 34.7 K%.
Lest anyone read too much into his goose egg in the DRS column, his defense was fine. His excellent throwing arm remained an asset and he had enough range to justify his shallow positioning. Some of that was quick reactions and good speed, but there's also something to be said about his refusal to be wall-shy.
Honorable Mentions: Keon Broxton (MIL), Albert Almora Jr. (CHC), Mikie Mahtook (DET) Austin Jackson (CLE), Bradley Zimmer (CLE), Juan Lagares (NYM), Mallex Smith (TBR)

Age: 34
Key Stats: 112 G, 409 PA, .264/.348/.402, 97 OPS+, 7 HR, 22 SB, -3 DRS
WAR: 1.7
           
2017 Player Report
Lost amid the many positive storylines of the New York Yankees' season was how Jacoby Ellsbury became a useful hitter again.
Some of that was due to him being largely restricted to action against right-handers. All the same, he deserves credit for turning an approach that had been aggressive into a super-disciplined one. That resulted in a career-high 10 BB%. Albeit with hardly any power, his line-drive swing kept the hits coming.
Ellsbury's speed also enjoyed a renaissance. His 28.3 feet-per-second sprint is his fastest of the Statcast era. He put it to use going 22-of-25 stealing bases and generally being a baserunning pest.
Alas, DRS doesn't lie about Ellsbury's defense. His speed may have improved in 2017, but it was still far from vintage. He must play a deeper center field because of that, which opens up shallow center and makes his cringe-worthy arm even easier to expose.

Age: 30
Key Stats: 114 G, 450 PA, .228/.318/.365, 87 OPS+, 10 HR, 33 SB, 0 DRS
WAR: 1.7
        
2017 Player Report
Any season in which Cameron Maybin can remain relatively healthy is a good one. To that end, 2017 was one of his better ones.
Otherwise, it was never likely that he would repeat his .315 batting average from 2016. That was driven by a BABIP spike that, in light of his astronomical ground-ball rate and low exit velocity, he didn't really earn.
However, Maybin did buoy his offense through sheer patience. Few hitters swung less often than he did. That earned him an 11.3 BB%. And despite not having the speed he once did, he picked the right battles with the speed he still has. A nice chunk of his value was in his baserunning.
By playing deeper in center field, Maybin has responded appropriately to his declining speed. Although he didn't flash exceptional range in 2017, it's important that not much got over his head.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 139 G, 633 PA, .247/.299/.335, 66 OPS+, 4 HR, 59 SB, 9 DRS
WAR: 1.0
         
2017 Player Report
If nothing else, Billy Hamilton's speed justifies his existence as an everyday center fielder.
He sprinted at an average of 30.1 feet per second in 2017, ranking just south of Byron Buxton for the fastest in MLB. Throw in good health and a passable (by his standards) OBP, and you get a career-high 59 stolen bases and elite baserunning value.
Hamilton's speed also permitted him to play a shallower center field than anyone else. Thus he could make plays on short batted balls and hustle back to get anything over his head. In all, he covered a ton of ground.
It's too bad his bat is still as punchless as they come. His 78.6 mph exit velocity was the lowest of any qualified hitter. It's hard to hit your way on like that. And in the face of consistently above-average fastball and strike zone rates, it's also tough for him to walk his way on.

Age: 36
Key Stats: 147 G, 527 PA, .212/.323/.452, 103 OPS+, 26 HR, 6 SB, -7 DRS
WAR: 1.4
          
2017 Player Report
Curtis Granderson isn't a true center fielder, of course. He's just a guy who was forced to play there in 2017.
The New York Mets had to play somebody in center, after all. Using Granderson worked about as well as expected. The veteran was as slow as they got in center field and had limited range because of that. Like Roger Murtaugh from Lethal Weapon, he's too old for this you-know-what.
Luckily, Granderson's bat was a redeeming quality.
His tendencies to take a ton of pitches and hit into shifts can make him frustrating to watch, but it mostly works. His general refusal to swing helps explain his 13.5 BB%. And while many hitters are just now getting around to it, he's been producing power via a high launch angle and pull rate for years.

Age: 31
Key Stats: 118 G, 491 PA, .264/.363/.488, 122 OPS+, 18 HR, 7 SB, -18 DRS
WAR: 1.6
          
2017 Player Report
Although it didn't help that the injury bug refused to leave him alone in 2017, Dexter Fowler was always likely to regress after a career year in 2016.
He was mainly disappointing on defense. After seemingly cracking the code of his poor metrics by playing a deeper center field in 2016, Fowler played a few steps shallower this season. That combined with diminished speed—his sprint declined from 28.8 to 28.2 feet-per-second—resulted in little range.
On the plus side, he remained a reliable top-of-the-lineup hitter.
Although he was slightly more aggressive than he was in '16, he continued to have a watchful eye that resulted in a 12.8 BB%. His bat produced both launch angle and exit velocity, resulting in a career-best rate of hard-hit balls.

Age: 31
Key Stats: 105 G, 426 PA, .255/.340/.462, 106 OPS+, 17 HR, 13 SB, -3 DRS
WAR: 1.8
         
2017 Player Report
Already past his prime as a speedster, Carlos Gomez wasn't helped by leg and ankle injuries in 2017.
But more so than DRS lets on, his defense was closer to "average" than to "below average." He played much deeper than he did in 2015 and 2016. As a result, fewer balls went over his head. Throw in an arm that's still an asset, and you have a solid center fielder.
At the plate, it's clear by now that Gomez will never kick his extreme swing and chase habits. He also dashed any hope that his strikeout spike from 2016 wouldn't be permanent, as he settled with a 29.8 K%.
However, he remained capable of putting a charge into the ball through both launch angle and exit velocity. With aggressive baserunning to accompany his power, he did enough on offense to save face.

Age: 23
Key Stats: 115 G, 413 PA, .253/.328/.514, 114 OPS+, 24 HR, 8 SB, 3 DRS
WAR: 1.8
        
2017 Player Report
Ian Happ spent a fair amount of time at second base in addition to center field in 2017. But while he's more experienced at the former, the latter often looked like the better fit for him. 
While it occasionally showed that he was inexperienced with tracking balls, he at least broke well and used his athleticism to cover enough ground to haul in what he had to. His arm was yet another asset to help him earn his keep at his new position.
Offensively, Happ fits with the modern trend of trying to get under the ball and use one's pull side. He did these things well with a 12.9 degree launch angle and 44.8 pull percentage, so it's no wonder he was a way-above-average power producer.
Now all he needs to do is make his 31.2 K% a one-time thing. He can either cut down on his swings or expand his plate coverage. Preferably, he'll do both.

Age: 23
Key Stats: 126 G, 529 PA, .263/.313/.409, 92 OPS+, 13 HR, 17 SB, 8 DRS
WAR: 2.5
            
2017 Player Report
Manuel Margot is here largely thanks to three things: his wheels, his glove and his arm.
His average sprint of 29.3 feet per second ranked high up there among center fielders and allowed him to be an active baserunner despite his .313 OBP.
Even better was how his speed served him on defense. It permitted him to play a shallow center field, and from there he covered a huge amount of ground. Not to be overlooked is his strong arm, which also helped boost his impressive DRS.
Now all Margot needs is a better bat. He did have a decent approach and teased some power. But since his approach involved being passive against pitches in the strike zone and his bat generated just 84.5 mph exit velocity, he lacked avenues to truly productive hitting.

Age: 26
Key Stats: 118 G, 432 PA, .271/.320/.486, 105 OPS+, 19 HR, 17 SB, 9 DRS
WAR: 2.6
           
2017 Player Report
Adam Eaton's torn ACL opened the door for Michael A. Taylor to claim some playing time. He didn't waste it.
It was on defense where he shone the most. His big DRS has much to do with baserunners failing tests of his strong arm, as he posted eight assists in only 940.1 innings in center field. But due to both his speed and actions, there was also little he couldn't get to despite his extremely shallow positioning.
Taylor remains an all-or-nothing hitter thanks to a swing-and-miss habit that he just can't quit. His approach isn't terrible, but he has trouble making contact against anything with spin. And pitchers know it.
However, his launch angle and pull rate made him a source of power. Factor in how his speed was frequently on display on the bases, and you get more than just a passable offensive presence.

Age: 29
Key Stats: 112 G, 466 PA, .266/.330/.471, 99 OPS+, 14 HR, 20 SB, 7 DRS
WAR: 2.9
          
2017 Player Report
A.J. Pollock lost almost all of 2016 to an elbow injury and a chunk of 2017 to a groin injury. So, he can be forgiven for having trouble finding a groove this year.
The silver lining is that his underlying talents remain strong. The best of the bunch this season was his defense. He's lost some of the speed that he had in 2015—28.3 feet-per-second versus 27.9 feet-per-second—but was therefore wise to play deeper. He didn't miss anything within his range.
Pollock eschewed the trend toward launch angle, opting for a flatter swing that produced consistent contact (15.2 K%) and line drives. Not explosive stuff but enough to keep his hitting afloat.
Given his speed decline, it's not surprising that Pollock couldn't recapture his incredible baserunning value from 2015. And yet, he still stole bases and ran aggressively on balls in play.

Age: 28
Key Stats: 154 G, 632 PA, .256/.300/.404, 83 OPS+, 16 HR, 15 SB, 15 DRS
WAR: 2.8
           
2017 Player Report
Statcast posits that Kevin Pillar was actually a below-average defender in 2017. That at least raises the question of whether he oversells many of his highlight-reel catches.
However, there's no question that his speed and fearlessness allowed him to cover a ton of ground and run down all varieties of batted balls. So, the idea that he's an elite fielder holds more water than any suggestion to the contrary.
At the plate, Pillar was held in check by a hyper-aggressive approach and a general inability to hit the ball squarely. But his launch angle and pull habit made him liable to pop one now and again, and he mostly made good use of his legs when he got on base.
A perfect player? Hardly. But one with an elite glove who otherwise does enough to warrant everyday action.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 133 G, 541 PA, .245/.323/.402, 89 OPS+, 17 HR, 8 SB, 9 DRS
WAR: 2.8
         
2017 Player Report
Jackie Bradley Jr. is proof that you don't need great speed to be a great center fielder.
It helps to have an excellent arm, but Bradley is also one of MLB's best fly-ball catchers. He never takes a bad route to a ball, nor does he ever lose his cool on the warning track. Thus, he gets to plenty and doesn't miss much.
On the other side of the ball, the stiffness and short reach of Bradley's swing opens up holes for pitchers to exploit. He's also liable to get jammed and roll one over, oftentimes into a shift.
Yet he also has an uncanny feel for the barrel that produces good exit velocity and a steady flow of hard contact. That and his patience (8.9 BB%) keep his offense from going too far below average, and his knowledge for how to use his legs on defense also extends to the basepaths.

Age: 28
Key Stats: 88 G, 361 PA, .266/.372/.475, 122 OPS+, 15 HR, 10 SB, 12 DRS
WAR: 3.9
           
2017 Player Report
According to his WAR, Aaron Hicks was one of the best center fielders of 2017.
But bear in mind that injuries limited him to roughly half a season. He also hit 12 of his 15 homers at Yankee Stadium, a decent chunk of which were short-porch cheapies. Can't give him too much credit for those.
But this is not to suggest Hicks was doing nothing different and getting different results. He became extremely selective with his swings and slightly improved his launch angle. His 14.1 BB% and power surge are the residue of design.
On defense, Hicks was more a utility outfielder than a true center fielder. But his rocket arm played well at all three outfield spots, and playing deeper in center field translated into good range. It all adds up to quite a bit of quality for such a small sample size.

Age: 25
Key Stats: 138 G, 563 PA, .281/.325/.452, 104 OPS+, 14 HR, 8 SB, 3 DRS
WAR: 2.2
         
2017 Player Report
For a guy who started slowly and who was once again unable to escape bad press, Odubel Herrera actually had a solid season.
He was a much hotter hitter after the All-Star break largely because he stopped swinging so aggressively, allowing his patience (6.9 BB%) and contact abilities (19.4 K%) to come back in line. Since he already had the swing for solid all-fields contact, he didn't have to do much else.
Herrera's defense wasn't always pretty, as he continued a habit of taking zigzaggy routes and indeed authored the year's ugliest defensive lowlight. But given the amount of ground he covered, he was mostly a plus despite his misadventures.
Then only real gripe with Herrera's overall performance is how reckless he was on the basepaths. But on the whole, an everyday center fielder who can hack it at the plate and in the field is a nice thing.

Age: 32
Key Stats: 147 G, 635 PA, .285/.322/.466, 109 OPS+, 26 HR, 2 SB, -12 DRS
WAR: 2.5
          
2017 Player Report
Despite his modest WAR, 2017 was another year in which Adam Jones was durable and generally dependable.
As per usual, he was one of MLB's most aggressive swingers and egregious chasers in 2017. That's a frustrating rejection of walks. But since he hasn't yet lost his feel for the barrel, his line-to-line extra-base hit ability once again kept his offense above par.
He also remained an asset on the basepaths despite being one of MLB's slowest center fielders. Although he doesn't steal bases anymore, he runs aggressively without running into dumb outs.
Defense is another matter, however. Despite trying to account for his slowing speed by playing deeper, there was still plenty he didn't get to both in front of him and behind him. He made his share of highlights, of course, but he's Exhibit A for how highlights alone don't tell the whole story.

Age: 31
Key Stats: 156 G, 650 PA, .279/.363/.486, 121 OPS+, 28 HR, 11 SB, -15 DRS
WAR: 2.5
          
2017 Player Report
Due to slumps that bookended his season, Andrew McCutchen wasn't all the way back in 2017. But he was back enough.
He was mostly healthy, for one, and didn't repeat his 2016 mistake of trying to do too much. He stayed within his approach and didn't try to pull everything. He thus resembled the hitter he was at his peak, avoiding strikeouts (17.8 K%), working walks (11.2 BB%) and hitting rockets to all fields.
But since McCutchen's exit velocity is on the decline, "rockets" is a relative term. And while he's still a capable runner who isn't yet a station-to-station guy on the bases, age is slowing his activity there.
On defense, McCutchen was closer to average than his way-below-average DRS would suggest. Thanks to deeper positioning, he was able to expand his range beyond what he was able to get to in 2016. 

Age: 27
Key Stats: 98 G, 421 PA, .276/.338/.450, 114 OPS+, 15 HR, 16 SB, 22 DRS
WAR: 5.1
        
2017 Player Report
It speaks volumes that Kevin Kiermaier could miss two months with a broken hip and still have a 5-WAR year.
His defense is still the best reason to watch him play. He's one of MLB's fastest center fielders, and he chases after fly balls with reckless abandon. The result is a ton of range and a steady flow of highlight-reel catches of legitimate difficulty. And his arm is yet another weapon.
On offense, Kiermaier made a concerted effort to hit for more power in 2016 by drastically upping his pull rate and launch angle. Both normalized in 2017, yet he crushed what he put in the air (91.5 mph exit velocity) and collected hits to all fields.
With his speed, it's only natural that Kiermaier was also a productive baserunner. Although he's not the most efficient baserunner, he was at least productive and was otherwise aggressive without being careless.

Age: 25
Key Stats: 156 G, 695 PA, .282/.369/.439, 117 OPS+, 18 HR, 16 SB, -6 DRS
WAR: 3.9
           
2017 Player Report
Christian Yelich was cold in the first half and overshadowed by Giancarlo Stanton in the second half. Along the way, a productive season got lost in the shuffle.
Yelich began tapping into his impressive raw power (see his exit velocity on fly balls and line drives) in 2016 by raising his launch angle and hitting fewer ground balls. Continuing this revolution in 2017 didn't boost his power even further but at least kept it from declining to its previous levels.
In the meantime, he didn't sell out his other offensive talents. These include patience (11.5 BB%), contact (19.7 K%) and bat control, as few hitters make use of all fields like he does. Throw in his speed, and you get a well-rounded offensive performer.
Alas, Yelich's transition from left field to center field didn't go better than expected. He's a good athlete who runs smooth routes, yet there was a lot that he didn't get to this year.

Age: 26
Key Stats: 157 G, 718 PA, .304/.350/.409, 100 OPS+, 11 HR, 22 SB, 5 DRS
WAR: 3.0
           
2017 Player Report
This is a high rank relative to Ender Inciarte's WAR. That's because DRS doesn't do his defense justice.
He didn't squeeze as much value out of his arm as he usually does, but his fly-ball catching remained on point. Although he's not one of the faster center fielders, he breaks quickly, runs direct routes and doesn't lose focus on the warning track.
Thus, Statcast has the more accurate depiction of Inciarte's defense: 19 outs above average, second only to Byron Buxton out of all outfielders.
Next to that, his offense was a nice bonus. Despite rating as one of MLB's softest hitters with 81.2 mph exit velocity, he once again made a ton of contact (13.1 K%) and ran into some more power by joining the launch-angle revolution. In the meantime, he also continued to be his usual productive self on the bases.

Age: 23
Key Stats: 140 G, 511 PA, .253/.314/.413, 94 OPS+, 16 HR, 29 SB, 24 DRS
WAR: 5.1
          
2017 Player Report
This is the year that Byron Buxton finally made good on the hype.
Nobody did better than his 30.2 feet-per-second sprint, and he put that to work stealing 29 bags and taking the extra base on hits 71 percent of the time. He also got caught stealing only once and made just one other out on the bases. All told, that's baserunning value that only one other player (Mookie Betts) could match.
Buxton also had a better defensive season than any center fielder. He played shallow and used his speed and instincts to track down seemingly everything that stayed inside the fence. The range he covered is staggering. Baserunners also had to watch out for his arm, another plus tool.
His bat, meanwhile, was a non-factor at the start and a huge factor at the end. Although strikeouts remained a constant, he found mechanics he was comfortable with and the hard contact began to flow. 

Age: 31
Key Stats: 155 G, 645 PA, .300/.363/.440, 112 OPS+, 15 HR, 26 SB, 5 DRS
WAR: 5.3
           
2017 Player Report
Lorenzo Cain sprinted at an average of 29.1 feet per second in 2017. That's his fastest mark in three years of Statcast data, and he made the most of it.
With 26 stolen bases in only 28 tries and plenty of smaller baserunning plays, Cain was one of MLB's most productive baserunners, period. And DRS underrates his defense. His seven errors and poor throwing ratings aside, his speed and route-running produced 15 outs above average for Statcast. Only two players beat that.
All this is worth plenty of value even without any hitting to go with it. But Cain did that, too.
He recaptured his strong contact ability with a 15.5 K% and did so while aiming for more power with a higher launch angle and 89.2 mph exit velocity. If only he didn't favor the power-killing void that is center field so much, he would have been even more productive.

Age: 28
Key Stats: 140 G, 629 PA, .283/.367/.522, 144 OPS+, 34 HR, 5 SB, 5 DRS
WAR: 5.0
             
2017 Player Report
George Springer didn't need to change much to go from a good hitter to a great hitter.
He already had a disciplined approach and a swing that could really put a charge into the ball. All he did in 2017 was swing almost exclusively at mistake pitches where he could get his arms extended. Not surprisingly, he connected more often (17.6 K%) and made plenty of hard contact.
The one negative of Springer's offensive surge is that his baserunning remained a sore spot. He already had tendencies to run into outs. Those stayed put despite the fact he got a tad less aggressive.
Springer's defense was similarly hit-or-miss but was more hit than miss when he played center field. He played much deeper than he did during his last full-time tour of center in 2015, yet still shallow enough to accommodate the Houston Astros' propensity for shallow fly balls. He also played a solid right field.

Age: 31
Key Stats: 159 G, 725 PA, .331/.399/.601, 142 OPS+, 37 HR, 14 SB, -5 DRS
WAR: 6.0
            
2017 Player Report
There's no ignoring that Charlie Blackmon was significantly better at home (1.239 OPS) than he was on the road (.784 OPS) this season. However, he wasn't entirely a Coors Field creation.
He found an equilibrium with his approach that resulted in unleashing his fury at pitches in the heart of the zone. That's a great way to make good contact, so it's no wonder his hard contact rate continued its upward trend.
Elsewhere, DRS is too unkind about his defense. It makes his arm look worse than it actually is and doesn't give him enough credit for solid fly-ball catching skills. He got to plenty, and what he didn't get to was mostly long shots.
One legit gripe is that his baserunning has declined. Although he's still fast, he isn't as prolific stealing bases as he used to be and hasn't gotten better at avoiding outs.

Age: 26
Key Stats: 114 G, 507 PA, .306/.442/.629, 187 OPS+, 33 HR, 22 SB, -6 DRS
WAR: 6.8
             
2017 Player Report
Sure, Mike Trout missed time with a thumb injury. But did you really expect to see someone else at No. 1?
The one complaint to be levied against Trout is that he's not the same defender he used to be. He's a step slower and thus has to play deeper, and to the naked eye he exercises more caution on the warning track. He makes the easy catches but few hard ones.
Fortunately, he remains a nightmare for the opposition on offense.
Already a disciplined hitter, this was the year that Trout became downright Joey Votto-esque in his selectivity and discipline. He also got in on the launch-angle revolution but without losing his swing's innate quickness and explosiveness. Thus, the trifecta of an 18.5 BB%, a 17.1 K% and a 38.3 hard-hit rate. Elsewhere, rumors of his baserunning's demise continued to be exaggerated.
In all, Mike Trout remains Mike Trout.



Anyone who picked the Houston Astros and Los Angeles Dodgers to cross paths in the World Series made a reasonably safe prediction. That does not mean the battle of MLB titans will go according to plan.
Both teams surrounded young superstars with swarms of depth to enter 2017 as popular title favorites. Each squad also bolstered their claim to the championship by acquiring an ace (Yu Darvish to the Dodgers, Justin Verlander to the Astros) late in the season.
Houston led baseball in scoring, and only the Cleveland Indians relinquished fewer runs than Los Angeles. An appropriate battle of behemoths befits the grand stage, gracing fans with three Cy Young Award winners (Verlander, Clayton Kershaw and Dallas Keuchel), two recent Rookie of the Year-winning superstars (Carlos Correa and Corey Seager), an overwhelming 2017 ROY frontrunner (Cody Bellinger) and a top-shelf MVP candidate (Jose Altuve).
They may not be here without Charlie Culberson, Charlie Morton and Enrique Hernandez. Fans can try writing a series script before Tuesday's opening game, but the real results will deviate.
Of course, it would have been impossible to envision Hernandez's three-home run game to eliminate the Chicago Cubs or Rajai Davis' Game 7 home run off Aroldis Chapman to tie last year's Fall Classic. These bold predictions may not be as daring, but they veer somewhat off the grid.
       
Clayton Kershaw and Dallas Keuchel Both Struggle in Game 1

A pair of Cy Young Award-winning southpaws will start the World Series when Kershaw faces Keuchel. Don't be shocked if they fail to deliver a pitchers' duel.
After already ceding six home runs this postseason, Kershaw holds a 4.40 career postseason ERA. He's also a future Hall of Famer with a 2.36 career regular-season ERA who stymied the Cubs to three runs in two starts. Maybe aside from peak Sandy Koufax, there's nobody the Dodgers would rather have on the mound Tuesday. 
This isn't a "Kershaw can't handle the October pressure" lecture. The Astros, however, finished 2017 first in batting average (.282), on-base percentage (.346) and slugging percentage (.478). They also demolished lefties with a 120 weighted runs created plus (wRC+), tied for first with the Detroit Tigers.
Playing under National League rules means they can't start Evan Gattis—who crushed a home run off CC Sabathia on Saturday—at Los Angeles. That's fine, as the quartet of Altuve, Correa, George Springer and Alex Bregman each posted an on-base percentage above .400 with a 160 wRC+ or higher versus lefties.
Houston's stars treat lefties with the same kindness Homer Simpson affords Leftorium founder Ned Flanders. 

Keuchel, meanwhile, has struggled away from Minute Maid Park throughout his career. Boasting a 2.93 ERA at home in six seasons, his mark jumps to 4.43 on the road. While Dodger Stadium is perceived as a hitter-friendly locale, its run factor, per ESPN.com, yielded only a slightly favorable edge to pitchers in 2017.
Minute Maid Park proved the least conducive venue to scoring. After containing the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees to one run in two starts at home, the 30-year-old coughed up four at the tougher Yankee Stadium.
Both managers may need to turn to the bullpen sooner than expected, which gives Los Angeles an advantage. Yet it may not be as severe as some onlookers think. 
       
Houston's Bullpen Bounces Back

If the Astros lost in the American League Championship Series, everyone would have rightfully pointed their fingers at a bullpen that has relinquished 19 runs and 14 walks over 34 tumultuous postseason innings.
Compare that to the Dodgers' National League Championship Series dominance, as detailed by MLB Stat of the Day:
The @Dodgers bullpen in the 2017 #NLCS:
58 batters faced
4 H
1 BB
0.00 ERA
0.294 WHIP

WOW. https://t.co/wM75TZ6aoD
With both units performing taking opposite trajectories, Houston's relief woes will likely get exaggerated leading up to the Fall Classic. Only a loaded Yankees bullpen notched a higher strikeout percentage during the season, leading the Astros to MLB's sixth-best fielding independent pitching (FIP). 
Although depth is a concern, manager AJ Hinch has to condense his circle of trust anyway. This still must include Ken Giles—who recorded a 2.30 ERA and 83 strikeouts in 62.2 regular-season innings—and Chris Devenski—who registered a 2.68 ERA as an indispensable old-school fireman—despite their October struggles.
Hinch avoided the beleaguered unit in Game 7 of the ALCS by turning to Lance McCullers. The starter relieved Morton with four dominant innings, relying heavily on his curveball to shut down the Yankees.
"I know that he has a lot of confidence in that pitch," catcher Brian McCann said of the curve McCullers tossed 24 straight times to end the game, per MLB.com's Alyson Footer. "He had the feel for it. Once he had that feel for it, that was it. It's one of the best pitches in baseball, it's one of the best pitches you're going to see. That pitch and his competitiveness, he was finishing that up."
Hinch can quell bullpen concerns by moving McCullers there for the series. He would then start Brad Peacock, Collin McHugh or even Keuchel on short rest in Game 4 instead of the 24-year-old righty. Either way, he should look for Giles, Devenski and Will Harris to provide quality innings after struggling in a microscopic sample size.
They may, however, regret not attaining a significant left-handed upgrade to combat Bellinger and a returning Seager. A redemptive showing also doesn't mean their bullpen will outperform the Dodgers, who have the best stopper in baseball.
      
Kenley Jansen Joins Mount Rushmore of Closers

On a per-inning basis, Kenley Jansen is already one of the greatest relievers of all time.
His 1.84 FIP only trails Craig Kimbrel (1.81) on the all-time leaderboard. A 33.3 strikeouts-minus-walks percentage tops everyone.
The role of relievers has changed over the years, so Jansen will never throw as many innings as Rollie Fingers or Goose Gossage. Unless he also excels at his craft until retiring on top at age 43, he won't come anywhere close to Mariano Rivera's record-setting 652 saves. Yet NBC Sports' Bill Baer showed that Jansen actually delivered more value in his 20s than the greatest reliever ever:
Kenley Jansen and Mariano Rivera, age 22-29 https://t.co/ptO1NNQ8z2
Jansen can change the narrative from All-Star closer to all-time legend with a memorable World Series showcase.
The Cubs failed to conjure a baserunner in four outings against Jansen, who stockpiled eight strikeouts and no walks. He now holds a 1.91 ERA and 47 strikeouts in 28.1 career postseason innings, but middle-relief woes have blocked him from displaying his soul-crushing cutter in the World Series. 
Since the Dodgers won their seven games by a combined 30 runs, manager Dave Roberts has used his superstar reliever for eight innings. Expect the Astros to give them more competition, which means Jansen will extinguish the AL champions in two or even three innings at a time.
If the Dodgers hoist the Commissioner's Trophy, it will be because Jansen commands MVP consideration with multiple untouchable appearances. By the end of this series, viewers will appreciate him not just as the premier active closer but one of the best to ever work from the bullpen.
      
Note: All advanced statistics courtesy of FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.



In the simple economics of baseball, a good season is no guarantee of a raise.
Unless a player is eligible for salary arbitration or entering free agency, he's essentially at the mercy of his current contract or subject to the league minimum salary.
With the World Series set to begin on Tuesday night, we decided to take a look at a few notable players who will be playing for a raise in this year's Fall Classic.
It's safe to say all of these players are underpaid at this point relative to their current market value.

2017 Stats: 342 PA, .729 OPS, 24 2B, 11 HR, 37 RBI, 46 R, 1.4 WAR
2017 Salary: $555,000
2018 Status: Arbitration-eligible (first time)
              
Why He Deserves a Raise
Kike Hernandez etched his name in Los Angeles Dodgers history with a three-homer performance in Game 5 of the NLCS.
However, he was a valuable roster piece long before that juggernaut performance.
The 26-year-old is versatile—he played every position besides pitcher and catcher this year—and he absolutely crushes left-handed pitching.
He posted a .946 OPS with 13 doubles and 10 home runs in 177 plate appearances against lefties this season, and he carries an .883 OPS for his career against southpaws.
Matt Swartz of MLBTradeRumors has projected a modest $1.3 million salary in his first year of arbitration. That's a nice bump up from the league minimum, but he'll still be a steal at that price.

2017 Stats: 45 G, 10 HLD, 2.06 ERA, 0.92 WHIP, 1.9 BB/9, 10.3 K/9, 1.1 WAR
2017 Salary: $1.25 million
2018 Status: Free agent
           
Why He Deserves a Raise
Brandon Morrow has always had good stuff dating back to his time as a starter with the Toronto Blue Jays.
He struck out 203 batters and led the AL with 10.3 strikeouts per nine innings during the 2011 season, and he also has a one-hit, 17-strikeout complete game shutout on his resume.
However, his career was derailed by injuries as he pitched just 136.2 total innings in the four years leading up to the 2017 season.
As a result, he was forced to settle for a minor league deal this past offseason, despite showing some promise with a 1.69 ERA in 18 appearances out of the San Diego Padres bullpen.
That proved to be a terrific roll of the dice by the Dodgers front office. He was called up to the majors at the end of May, and he quickly became one of the most reliable arms in one of the best bullpens in baseball.
The 33-year-old carries some obvious risk given his injury history, but a guaranteed MLB contract is all but assured this time around and a multi-year deal isn't out of the question.

2017 Stats: 25 GS, 16-3, 2.72 ERA, 1.06 WHIP, 151 K, 152.1 IP, 3.3 WAR
2017 Salary: $2.8 million
2018 Status: Arbitration-eligible (second time)
             
Why He Deserves a Raise
Alex Wood entered the 2017 season with a 3.35 ERA over 499.1 career innings, yet he still found himself on the outside looking in for a spot in the crowded Dodgers rotation.
An April trip to the disabled list from Rich Hill opened the door for him to join the starting staff, and he never looked back, earning a spot on the NL All-Star team along the way.
He wasn't quite as a sharp in the second half, going 5-3 with a 4.25 ERA in 11 starts while pitching beyond the sixth inning just twice, but his full body of work still made him one of the biggest surprises of 2017.
To call him a bargain at $2.8 million would be a massive understatement.
Dierkes has projected a sizeable raise to $6.4 million in his second year of arbitration, but that's still a price the Dodgers will happily pay to keep the 26-year-old around in the rotation.

2017 Stats: 63 G, 34/38 SV, 2.30 ERA, 1.04 WHIP, 3.0 BB/9, 11.9 K/9, 1.9 WAR
2017 Salary: $550,100
2018 Status: Arbitration-eligible (first time)
             
Why He Deserves a Raise
It cost the Astros five players to acquire Ken Giles prior to the 2016 season, and it's a trade they wouldn't think twice about making again.
After a shaky first season in Houston that included a 4.11 ERA and five blown saves, he's emerged as a lockdown option in the ninth inning and one of the most dominant closers in the league.
While his strikeout rate dropped significantly from 14.0 to 11.9 strikeouts per nine innings, he did a better job pitching to contact with his groundball rate (39.6 to 44.0 percent) and soft-contract rate (19.1 to 24.6 percent) both trending upward.
The 27-year-old will benefit from an arbitration process that still values save total above all else when it comes to relievers.
However, with a $5 million projected salary, he'll still be making a fraction of his market value as the price of quality relief pitching continues to sky-rocket.

2017 Stats: 23 GS, 14-5, 2.90 ERA, 1.12 WHIP, 125 K, 145.2 IP, 3.9 WAR
2017 Salary: $9.15 million
2018 Status: Arbitration-eligible (third time)
             
Why He Deserves a Raise
Dallas Keuchel will likely be the topic of extension talks this offseason as he gets set to enter his final year of arbitration.
The 29-year-old missed some time with a nerve issue in his neck, but overall it was a terrific bounce-back season after a disappointing encore to his 2015 AL Cy Young campaign.
As a groundball machine (66.8 percent groundball rate) who relies more on command than velocity, he should age well, and his status as a late-bloomer also means there are fewer innings on his arm.
His $9.15 million salary this season was by no means a pittance, and he's projected for a healthy raise to $12.6 million, but that's still about $10 million shy of what he'd fetch on the open market.
For now, the Astros have one of the most reasonably priced aces in the game, but buying out his final year of arbitration and locking him up with a big extension would seem to be in the franchise's best interest.

2017 Stats: 34 G, 21 GS, 13-2, 3.00 ERA, 1.19 WHIP, 161 K, 132.0 IP, 3.0 WAR
2017 Salary: $541,500
2018 Status: Arbitration-eligible (first time)
          
Why He Deserves a Raise
Brad Peacock was a revelation for the Astros this season after he entered spring training out of minor league options and in danger of being a roster casualty.
Injuries limited the 29-year-old to just 36.2 innings between 2015 and 2016, and he was clearly on the outside of a crowded group of starters vying for a spot in the Houston rotation.
He began the season in the bullpen but stepped into the rotation in May after posting a 1.10 ERA and 12.1 K/9 in 12 relief appearances.
From there, he went 11-2 with a 3.27 ERA and 1.21 WHIP the rest of the way, closing out the season with a 2.29 ERA over his final seven starts.
Despite his age, he'll be arbitration-eligible for the first time this offseason, and he's projected for a modest $2.9 million salary.
Good thing the Astros didn't let him get away this spring.

2017 Stats: 629 PA, .889 OPS, 29 2B, 34 HR, 85 RBI, 112 R, 5.0 WAR
2017 Salary: $3.9 million
2018 Status: Arbitration-eligible (second time)
              
Why He Deserves a Raise
George Springer was the catalyst of the best offense in baseball this season, posting a .367 on-base percentage and scoring 112 runs out of the leadoff spot in the lineup.
He also slugged a career-high 34 home runs and trimmed his strikeout rate from 23.9 to 17.6 percent, all while being asked to slide over from right to center field following the offseason signing of Josh Reddick.
The 28-year-old is one of the game's most dynamic all-around talents, and he's still getting better.
He's one of 25 position players who has combined for at least 10.0 WAR over the past two seasons and one of just six outfielders in that group. 
His salary jumped up to $3.9 million in his first year of arbitration, and he's projected for another good-sized spike to $8.9 million next season.
He'll be worth every penny.
             
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs, while salary information comes via Spotrac and arbitration projections come from MLBTradeRumors.



The 2017 World Series between the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Houston Astros starts Tuesday night in Los Angeles, starting off a best-of-seven series between the two teams that have proved themselves to be the best in baseball since the season began way back in April.
A combined 205 regular-season wins, six All-Stars each, the top run-scoring team (Houston) and the squad with the league's second-best team ERA (Los Angeles), there's simply no shortage of star power and few weaknesses in this World Series. The Dodgers—a powerhouse for several years now thanks to a near-limitless reserve of cash and excellent player development—are in the World Series for the first time since 1988, looking to add a seventh title to their storied franchise history.
The Astros, just four years removed from a string of 100-loss seasons, are looking to capture their first-ever World Series crown. The last time Houston reached the World Series was back in 2005, when they were in the National League (the team switched to the American League in 2013).Here's the complete schedule for the World Series so you don't miss a minute of action. All games will be televised on Fox. Live streaming is available at Fox Sports Go.
      
2017 World Series Schedule
Game 1: Tuesday, Oct. 24 at 8:09 p.m. ET, Houston at Los Angeles
Game 2: Wednesday, Oct. 25 at 8:09 p.m. ET, Houston at Los Angeles
Game 3: Friday, Oct. 26 at 8:09 p.m. ET, Los Angeles at Houston
Game 4: Saturday, Oct. 27 at 8:09 p.m. ET, Los Angeles at Houston
Game 5: Sunday, Oct. 28 at 8:16 p.m. ET, Los Angeles at Houston*
Game 6: Tuesday, Oct. 31 at 8:09 p.m. ET, Houston at Los Angeles*
Game 7: Wednesday, Nov. 1 at 8:10 p.m. ET, Houston at Los Angeles*
*If necessary
     
After stumbling to the finish line at the end of the regular season, the Dodgers were able to recalibrate and get back to world-beating form in the postseason. They dusted off the division-rival Arizona Diamondbacks in three games and then soundly beat the defending-champion Chicago Cubs in five games. 
The team has simply been all-around excellent. At the plate, Chris Taylor, Justin Turner and Yasiel Puig have provided much of the offensive spark. Turner has three home runs and 12 RBI this postseason, including a walk-off blast in Game 2 of the NLCS. Taylor was named co-MVP of the National League Championship Series with Turner and has drawn seven walks in the playoffs to supplement his .281 average.

Puig, who has charmed much of the baseball-watching nation with his assortment of tongue wags, bat flips and even bat licks, has the highest batting average (.414) and on-base percentage (.514) of any player still in this postseason. Pretty good stuff from a guy who was demoted to Triple A last season.
The Dodgers will rely on the likes of Turner and Puig to continue their hot-hitting, while hoping Cody Bellinger can get in the mix more and Corey Seager is fully recovered from a back injury that kept him out of the NLCS.
The Astros defeated the Boston Red Sox in the divisional round before surviving seven games with the New York Yankees in the American League Championship Series. After hitting well against Boston, the bats went mostly quiet in the ALCS, though Houston was able to score 11 runs in the final two games to close out the series. Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa have been rock solid in the heart of the lineup, with 29 hits and 17 RBI between them this postseason.
They also make for a pretty slick double-play duo, per the Astros:
@TeamCJCorrea Smooooooth. #EarnHistory https://t.co/4iRqOSyMhg
The diminutive Altuve has been especially great at the plate, smashing five home runs and coming up big in clutch spots time after time. Houston manager A.J. Hinch knows Altuve is the heart and soul of his squad, per ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick:
"We talk about his size or his hit total or a lot of different parts of Altuve. The bottom line is, he's one of the best players in the whole game. He's on our team and he's one of our leaders, and he's grown up in front of these fans and his teammates. To get him on the national stage and lead this team to the World Series is some kind of special."
Altuve and Correa are going to need help to keep apace with the Dodgers. The likes of George Springer, Evan Gattis and Brian McCann will have to get their bats working again in a hurry. 
The Dodgers will trot out Clayton Kershaw in Game 1 against Houston's Dallas Kuechel. For all his superhuman pitching performances during the regular season, Kershaw hasn't been much more than solid six-inning guy in this postseason, with a 3.63 ERA and 16 strikeouts in 17.1 innings pitched.
Kershaw's late-inning struggles have been well-documented over the years, but there is hope yet he can turn in a vintage display on Tuesday. After all, he hasn't yet pitched in a World Series game. 

Kuechel is 2-1 this postseason with a 2.60 ERA and a scorching 25 strikeouts in 17.1 innings pitched. Those numbers are devilishly good, but the Dodgers lineup figures to be his toughest test yet. They have proven to be extremely good at working deep counts and taking advantage of pitchers' mistakes. Keuchel isn't going to get a lot of easy outs on Tuesday.
Beyond that, the Dodgers turns to Rich Hill for Game 2 and Yu Darvish for Game 3, while the Astros will go with Justin Verlander in Game 2, per MLB.com. The 1-2 punch of Keuchel and Verlander has Houston in position to steal a game from Los Angeles, and with the likes of Lance McCullers filling out the rotation, they look to have a slight starting-pitching advantage in this series.
If the games are as tight as the two teams' resumes suggest they will be, the Dodgers do appear to have an advantage in the bullpen. Houston has seen shaky displays from its relievers, including closer Ken Giles, who has a 7.50 ERA. In Game 7 against the Yankees, the team went to McCullers for four innings of long relief, even though he had thrown six innings as a starter just four days prior. 
The Dodgers have gotten consistently excellent work from Kenta Maeda and Brandon Morrow in middle relief, and closer Kenley Jansen could be the best weapon of any player remaining. In eight innings of work, Jansen has notched three saves, allowing just two hits and walking one while striking out 12.
Here he is turning the Cubs' bats to ash in Game 1 of the NLCS for a four-strikeout save:
There is an abundance of faith in the Curacaoan closer, per journalist Molly Knight and the Los Angeles Times' Andy McCullough:
I would trust Kenley Jansen with my life, tbh.
The ninth inning belongs to Kenley Jansen.
So, in a series between the two best teams in baseball, expect it to be decided by the margins. If Houston can scratch out a couple extra hits there, squeeze a few extra innings from its starters there, they can take this series.
If Los Angeles can keep the hot-hitting going, get a lead (any lead will do, it seems) and set the stage for Jansen, then the legendary franchise will get its seventh title.



The 2017 World Series is set to get underway Tuesday night, but there are still another 28 teams left to get their offseasons underway.
While the likes of Giancarlo Stanton and others lead the potential names on the trade block, free agency will begin in earnest not long after the World Series ends.
Here is a look at some of the most notable rumors being bandied about.
             
Eric Hosmer
The Kansas City Royals have apparently not given up hope of retaining Eric Hosmer. 
Sam Mellinger of the Kansas City Star reported the Royals are making the first baseman their "top priority" this offseason.
Hosmer, who turns 28 on Tuesday, had a career year in 2017. He hit .318/.385/.498 with 25 home runs and 94 runs batted in, setting a career-best with a 4.1 WAR.
If the Royals are able to retain Hosmer, their current plan is to go all-in and attempt to re-sign Mike Moustakas or Lorenzo Cain.

There was nevertheless a sense of finality in Hosmer's last game with the Royals.
"I had shades on for a reason," Moustakas told reporters after the season finale. "I was a wreck all day. After he hit his home run, I had tears in my eyes when I was trying to hit. I had no idea what was going on. It was unbelievable.
"That was one of the coolest moments I've ever been a part of, watching the fans of Kansas City give an ovation and then him going out there and hitting a home run. That was unbelievable. I couldn't believe that happened. I was so happy."
The Royals have rarely been able to compete for marquee free agents in the past, but Hosmer will be an interesting test case.
His 2017 campaign is a bit of an outlier for his career. A year prior, Hosmer put together a disappointing -0.1 WAR; in 2014 it was exactly 0.0. Teams are smarter now about looking at multi-year production rates for players. His total WAR of 7.5 over the last four combined seasons would make him a player well within the Royals' price range.
That said, it only takes one team to look at Hosmer and believe his 2017 performance is replicable to muck things up.
Prediction: Hosmer re-signs with Royals.
            
Shohei Otani
MLB will see its latest delving into the Japanese player pool this winter, with Shohei Otani set to hit the market for bidding.
The 23-year-old slugger could become one of the most sought-after Japanese players in history, given his age and sensational play in the NPB.
Otani has the potential to be the first major two-way star in recent MLB history. He led NPB in ERA and OPS in 2016, emerging as a two-way force the likes of which we have not seen in modern baseball.

Because he is expected to come stateside before his 25th birthday, Otani will be subject to teams' international player pool money rather than a potential nine-figure contract.
"He was going through the motions," a scout told Dylan Hernandez of the Los Angeles Times last month. "He's physically so much superior to everyone else. He just overpowered everyone. He looks like he's ready for a new challenge."
Bob Dutton of the Tacoma News Tribune reported that challenge could come in Seattle, with the Mariners expected to heavily pursue Otani.
The Mariners have a natural history with Japanese players given their success in turning Ichiro into a star and later the likes of Hisashi Iwakuma. 
But they should face stiff competition. Nearly every team would be willing to unload their entire international player pool money to sign Otani, and Yankees general manager Brian Cashman went to Japan to watch him play earlier this summer. 
If Otani is actually posted, this might wind up being the story of the winter. 
Prediction: Otani signs with Yankees.
                
Advanced stats are via FanGraphs.



The 2017 World Series will get underway Tuesday, with the Los Angeles Dodgers and Houston Astros preparing to end their championship droughts. 
For the other 28 MLB teams, though, their campaigns are over. The offseason has already begun in earnest, and with it, the trade rumor mill has begun churning.
The hot-stove season begins with arguably the biggest fish in recent memory on the table. The Miami Marlins are expected to spend their winter searching for the best possible offer for slugger Giancarlo Stanton, who is set to make $25 million in 2018 as part of his $325 million blockbuster contract.
Miami paid him $14.5 million in 2017. This will be the first real escalator season in the deal, which has become increasingly onerous for a Marlins team that's already hemorrhaging cash. A new Derek Jeter-led ownership group took over operations this fall and reportedly plans to make major slashes to the payroll. Jeter told reporters earlier this month:
"And, look, the best way I can put it is, I don't like the word 'teardown.' Moving forward, there's going to be at times unpopular decisions that we make on behalf of the organization. Just understand that every decision we make is for the betterment of this organization. We have that in mind. The word teardown and rebuild—yeah, we are rebuilding a franchise. But I think a lot of times people associate those words with losing.  You never go into a situation and the message is that 'We're going to lose."
Stanton, coming off a season in which he hit 59 home runs, is their best and most likely trade chip—even despite him having a full no-trade clause. Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reported the Philadelphia Phillies are an unlikely fit for that reason, as those close to Stanton feel he would not approve the move.
The San Francisco Giants and St. Louis Cardinals have also expressed interest, but the market is just taking shape. Any team that trades for Stanton will have to be comfortable with his monster deal, with Miami unlikely willing to add much financial consideration for trading its best player.
A team that loses out on the Stanton sweepstakes could set their sights on Yasiel Puig, though his postseason run may have cooled that potential. Heyman reported some Dodgers players remain frustrated with Puig's "childish antics."
Among those antics were his benching in September for showing up late to a team workout. Puig has responded with a stellar October, recording 12 hits in 29 at bats in the Dodgers' undefeated run to the World Series.
If he continues this hot streak, it would be pretty hard to trade him—especially if the Dodgers win the championship. But the market could heat up if teams are turned off by Miami's asking price for Stanton. 



The Houston Astros have a couple of days to catch their breath.
Pushed to the limit in the American League Championship Series by the New York Yankees after dropping the three middle games of the series at Yankee Stadium, the Astros came back with a hard edge and won the pennant with victories in Games 6 and 7.
The Astros earned their way into their second World Series, and their first as an American League team. They represented the National League in 2005, and that appearance ended badly as they were swept in four games by the Chicago White Sox.

The Astros will be facing a formidable opponent in the Los Angeles Dodgers. After a late-season slump that saw the Dodgers lose 16 of 17 games, the team has righted itself.
The Dodgers swept the Arizona Diamondbacks in the National League Division Series and then beat the World Series champion Chicago Cubs in five games.
The Dodgers are gunning for their first World Series victory since the Orel Hershiser-led 1988 team beat the Oakland A's. The Dodgers have great depth with their pitching—starters and relievers—and they have been getting clutch hitting up and down the lineup.
            
Here's the World Series schedule:
Tuesday, October 24Astros at Dodgers, 8 p.m., FoxWednesday, October 25Astros at Dodgers, 8 p.m., Fox
Friday, October 27Dodgers at Astros, 8 p.m., Fox
Saturday, October 28Dodgers at Astros, 8 p.m., Fox
Sunday, October 29Dodgers at Astros, 8 p.m., Fox, if necessary
Tuesday, October 31Astros at Dodgers, 8 p.m., Fox, if necessary
Wednesday, November 1Astros at Dodgers, 8 p.m., Fox, if necessary
             
The first game of a best-of-seven series in any sport is vital, but Game 1 of this year's World Series may have even more value than usual. That's because the Astros are sending staff bellcow Dallas Keuchel to face Los Angeles ace Clayton Kershaw.
Keuchel was 14-5 with a 2.90 earned-run average during the regular season, while Kershaw was 18-4 with a 2.31 ERA.
Keuchel is 2-1 with a 2.60 ERA in the postseason, and he has struck out 25 batters while walking just five in his playoff outings. 
Kershaw has regularly struggled throughout his career in the postseason, but he has done somewhat better this year with a 2-0 record and a 3.63 ERA along with 16 strikeouts and five walks.
José Altuve has 4 home runs this postseason, tied for 2nd-most by an Astros player in a single postseason (Carlos Beltrán had 8 in 2004). https://t.co/XXMcksUvxS
The Dodgers have had timely hitting throughout the postseason, and third baseman Justin Turner has been the most productive of their hitters with a .387 average, three home runs and 12 RBI. Yasiel Puig is hitting .414 with 12 hits, six runs scored and six RBI, while Chris Taylor and Cody Bellinger have two home runs and four RBI each.
The Dodgers are also hoping to have shortstop Corey Seager back in the lineup after missing the NLCS with back issues.
The Astros are led by MVP candidate Jose Altuve, who is hitting .400 in the postseason with five home runs and eight runs batted in. Veteran first baseman Yuli Gurriel is hitting .366 with 15 hits, including four doubles and a triple.
Carlos Correa is hitting .295 with three homers and nine RBI, and he is expected to take on a key role in the World Series.



The 2017 World Series begins Tuesday night at Dodger Stadium, as the Los Angeles Dodgers welcome to the Houston Astros to town to kick off this best-of-seven series.
The Dodgers have home-field advantage after winning 104 games during the regular season. It's their first trip to the Fall Classic since 1988, when they beat the Oakland Athletics behind the MVP performance of Orel Hershiser.
As for the Astros, they will be seeking their first World Series title in franchise history. Their only other pennant came in 2005, but the Chicago White Sox swept them in the World Series.
Before the series gets underway, we have put together a quick preview of each team's lineup, starting rotation and a few X-factors to watch before making game-by-game predictions for how things will play out.

Projected Astros Lineup
The Astros were baseball's most potent offense during the regular season, leading the majors in runs scored (896), team batting average (.282) and team OPS (.823).
MVP candidate Jose Altuve has led the way in October with a ridiculous .400/.500/.775 line that includes five home runs and more walks (8) than strikeouts (7).
The only change likely to occur in that projected lineup will be slotting Evan Gattis in for a few starts as either a replacement for Brian McCann behind the plate or Carlos Beltran at designated hitter. McCann is hitting just .156 this postseason, and the pitching staff had a better ERA with Gattis behind the dish during the regular season (3.87 vs. 4.36).
Alex Bregman could also find himself in the No. 2 spot in the batting order against the Dodgers' lefty-heavy rotation, especially considering Josh Reddick is batting just .171 in the playoffs.
         
Projected Dodgers Lineup
Corey Seager's health is the big question for the Dodgers after he was left off the National League Championship Series roster with a back injury.
Seager took batting practice and ground balls at shortstop Sunday, and manager Dave Roberts is "very confident" he'll be back in the lineup when the World Series begins Tuesday, according to Bill Shaikin of the Los Angeles Times. Otherwise, it will be either Charlie Culberson manning shortstop or Chris Taylor moving in from center field.
Expect a straight platoon to continue both in left field and at second base. Catcher is a bit more of a fluid situation, with Austin Barnes seizing a bigger piece of the timeshare from Yasmani Grandal down the stretch and into the postseason.
Curtis Granderson will likely be in the lineup when the series shifts to Houston and the team needs a designated hitter. He has two career home runs against Justin Verlander.

Projected Astros Rotation
The Astros have only announced Dallas Keuchel and Justin Verlander as the Game 1 and Game 2 starters, and they will once again be choosing between Charlie Morton, Lance McCullers Jr. and Brad Peacock to round out the staff.
Morton and McCullers combined for a gem in Game 7 of the American League Championship Series, and piggybacking them again might not be the worst idea depending on how taxed the bullpen is heading into Game 3.
The Astros will have unfamiliarity on their side when Keuchel takes the mound. He's only ever faced Logan Forsythe (7-for-20), Chase Utley (1-for-4) and Chris Taylor (0-for-3), which could give him an upper hand in Game 1.
It's not unreasonable to say the Astros will go as far as Keuchel and Verlander carry them this postseason.
           
Projected Dodgers Rotation
Clayton Kershaw turned in the defining moment of his postseason career against the Chicago Cubs in Game 5 of the NLCS, allowing three hits and one run over six dominant innings. Now we will see what the best pitcher in the game can do for an encore in his first trip to the World Series.
Rich Hill and Yu Darvish present an interesting matchup for the Astros, as both pitchers recently called the AL West home. Hill pitched for Oakland last season, while Darvish spent his entire career prior to July with the Texas Rangers.
However, Astros hitters carry a paltry .190/.249/.288 line in 163 combined at-bats against Darvish, and he was dominant in his most recent start against them—allowing just one hit over seven innings of work on June 12.
Alex Wood will once again fill the No. 4 starter role, and he could be used out of the bullpen later in the series if the need arises.

Astros: Brad Peacock
Whether he gets a start later in the series or works exclusively out of the bullpen, Brad Peacock has a chance to be a difference-maker for the Astros.
Assuming he comes out of the bullpen, he could be asked to replace the struggling Chris Devenski as the team's primary multi-inning weapon. Devenski has allowed five hits, three walks and four earned runs in three innings.
The Astros have other capable long relievers, including starter Collin McHugh, but there is a reason Peacock is also in the mix to earn a start.
The 29-year-old went 13-2 with a 3.00 ERA, 1.19 WHIP and 161 strikeouts in 132.0 innings during the regular season. That included 21 starts and 13 relief appearances, and he pitched to a 1.77 ERA with 26 strikeouts in 20.1 innings when coming out of the bullpen.
Houston has gotten a 5.03 ERA from its bullpen this postseason, so any sort of stabilizing presence would be welcomed with open arms.
       
Dodgers: The Health of Corey Seager
Seager's health is easily the biggest X-factor in this series, at least on paper.
The 23-year-old was brilliant once again this season, hitting .295/.375/.479 with 33 doubles, 22 home runs and 77 RBI on his way to a 5.6 WAR. However, he was plagued by a sore shoulder down the stretch and hit just .210/.286/.356 in September as a result.
He was active for the team's three-game sweep of the Arizona Diamondbacks in the National League Division Series, going 3-for-11 with a triple and two RBI in that series. But a back injury left him watching from the sidelines in the NLCS.
Props to Charlie Culberson for doing a terrific job filling in after seeing a grand total of 15 plate appearances at the MLB level during the regular season. However, Seager is capable of transforming the offense if he's close to 100 percent. 
At the very least, expect to see him penciled in as the DH once the series moves to Houston.

If you are a fan of pitcher duels, it doesn't get much better than Dallas Keuchel vs. Clayton Kershaw matching up in Game 1 of the World Series.
With the benefit of full rest, expect both pitchers to be on their game early.
Keuchel has unfamiliarity on his side, as the Dodgers lineup has not seen much of him, but he was also significantly better at home (11 GS, 2.26 ERA, 0.95 WHIP) than he was on the road (12 GS, 3.53 ERA, 1.28 WHIP) this season.
The Astros will strike first, with Jose Altuve continuing to swing a hot bat and delivering his sixth home run of the postseason. He's 6-for-15 in his career against Kershaw.
However, that will be all the Astros get, and the Dodgers finally get to Keuchel the third time through the lineup to put a crooked number on the board.
Kenley Jansen goes 1-2-3 in the ninth after Kershaw goes eight innings, and the Dodgers take the series lead.
        
Score Prediction: Dodgers 4, Astros 1 (LAD leads 1-0)

The Dodgers had the best home record in baseball this season at 57-25, and they have kept that form going with a 4-0 record at Dodger Stadium this postseason.
It would be huge if the Astros could steal a win before the series shifts to Houston, and ALCS MVP Justin Verlander is just the man for the job.
Since joining the Astros in August, he's gone 9-0 with a 1.05 ERA and 0.66 WHIP in eight starts and one relief appearance, returning to ace form. That will continue in Game 2 as he scatters four hits and one run over 7.2 innings before turning it over to the bullpen with a 2-1 lead.
Ken Giles gets the final out of the eighth, and the Astros tack on a big insurance run in the bottom of the inning on a solo home run from Marwin Gonzalez. Giles slams the door in the ninth and welcomes the travel day after running up a high pitch count to get those final four outs.
          
Score Prediction: Astros 3, Dodgers 1 (Series tied 1-1)

After being limited to pinch-hit duties the first two games of the series, Corey Seager is back in the starting lineup hitting second as the starting designated hitter in Game 3.
He wastes no time making his presence felt with a two-run home run off Charlie Morton in the top of the first inning, and that sets the tone for an offensive explosion.
Morton is chased before he can finish the third inning, and it turns into a bullpen game for the Astros.
Houston manager A.J. Hinch wisely saves both Brad Peacock and Lance McCullers Jr. for Game 4, instead instead to Collin McHugh to eat up some innings in a game that's a lost cause early.
Seager goes deep again in the seventh inning, and the Dodgers pour it on with five total home runs in the game. 
       
Score Prediction: Dodgers 12, Astros 3 (LAD leads 2-1)

After seeing how well Lance McCullers Jr. pitched out of the bullpen in Game 7 of the ALCS, the Astros employ a similar strategy in Game 4. Brad Peacock earns the start and McCullers waits in the wings, ready to take the mound at the first sign of trouble.
Peacock is sharp early with four scoreless innings, but after the first two batters reach base in the top of the fifth, he gets a quick hook. McCullers can't get out of the inning unscathed, as both of those runs come around to score and give the Dodgers a 2-0 lead.
The Astros quickly get those runs back in the bottom of the inning, though, as Carlos Correa takes Alex Wood deep and chases him from the game in the process.
It's a bullpen game from there—and a good one.
Things are still tied 2-2 heading into the bottom of the ninth, and the Dodgers go to closer Kenley Jansen, who cuts through the middle of the Astros lineup with a 1-2-3 inning.
Cody Bellinger plays the role of hero in the top of the 10th with an opposite-field home run off Astros closer Ken Giles, and Jansen slams the door in the bottom of the inning as the Astros lose a heartbreaker.
       
Score Prediction: Dodgers 3, Astros 2 (LAD leads 3-1)

Dallas Keuchel gets the ball again in Game 5 with the season on the line, and he delivers with a complete-game shutout.
Clayton Kershaw nearly matches him pitch-for-pitch, with one mistake to George Springer proving to be the difference as he goes eight terrific innings but takes the tough-luck loss.
The two teams combine for seven hits in one of the best-pitched games in World Series history and one of the fastest games of the season.
        
Score Prediction: Astros 1, Dodgers 0 (LAD leads 3-2)

The series shifts back to Dodger Stadium for Game 6, and it looks like we might be headed for a Game 7 when the Astros plate three runs in the fourth inning to chase starter Rich Hill.
However, Game 4 starter Alex Wood comes on in relief and throws three perfect innings, and the Dodgers load the bases against Justin Verlander in the bottom of the seventh.
With two outs in the inning and Verlander still throwing a shutout and looking strong from a stuff standpoint, manager A.J. Hinch decides to leave the veteran in the game to try to work out of his own jam.
Justin Turner has other ideas.
He crushes a bases-clearing double into the right-center gap. And just like that, the score is tied.
Yasiel Puig follows with the go-ahead RBI single off reliever Will Harris, and the Dodgers are just six outs from a World Series title.
Manager Dave Roberts doesn't think twice about going to Kenley Jansen to get those final six outs, and he does just that, nailing down the save and proving to be worth every penny of that $80 million deal.
       
Score Prediction: Dodgers 4, Astros 3 (Dodgers win series 4-2) 
         
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference unless otherwise noted.



If you look back at the history of World Series MVP winners, you'll notice that not everyone is a Hall of Famer or perennial All-Star. Sometimes, the players are journeymen or slap-hitting infielders or guys who had their moment in the sun and then faded away.
Below, you'll find three players who have never made an All-Star Game but could be unsung heroes in the Fall Classic. Then, you'll find a World Series prediction.
First, here's a look at the schedule, via MLB.com.
Tuesday, October 24 (Game 1): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Wednesday, October 25 (Game 2): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Friday, October 27 (Game 3): Los Angeles Dodgers at Houston Astros
Saturday, October 28 (Game 4): Los Angeles Dodgers at Houston Astros
*Sunday, October 29 (Game 5): Los Angeles Dodgers at Houston Astros
*Tuesday, October 31 (Game 6): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
*Wednesday, November 1 (Game 7): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Fox will televise each game, all of which will begin at 8 p.m. ET. MLB.TV subscribers can also live-stream the World Series. An asterisk indicates the game will be played if necessary.
         
Los Angeles Dodgers Starter-Turned-Reliever Kenta Maeda
Starter Kenta Maeda was the odd man out of the Dodgers' playoff rotation, but he's established himself as a force out of the bullpen this postseason.
Manager Dave Roberts has called for Maeda five times in eight games, and the 29-year-old has responded with five shutout innings and seven strikeouts. Remarkably, Maeda hasn't even allowed anyone to reach base yet.
His presence in the 'pen makes the Dodgers' already excellent back end that much deeper, negating the need for any of their starters to go deep into games. Although Maeda hasn't gone longer than an inning yet, he can conceivably be a long man and pitch for a few innings.
      
Los Angeles Dodgers Second Baseman Logan Forsythe
The easy pick here was outfielder Chris Taylor, but giving that distinction to a player who just won the National League Championship Series MVP seemed like cheating.
Therefore, the nod goes to second baseman Logan Forsythe.
The 30-year-old had a rough year at the plate, hitting just .224 with six home runs and 109 strikeouts, but he's heating up in the postseason. In seven games, Forsythe has a .316 batting average, but most importantly, he's getting on base nearly half the time (.458).
He was a major factor in the Dodgers' Game 2 win in the National League Division Series over the Arizona Diamondbacks with three hits and three runs. Could another big day be in store?
         
Houston Astros Third Baseman Alex Bregman
The Los Angeles Dodgers have three southpaws in their rotation: Clayton Kershaw, Rich Hill and Alex Wood. That means 23-year-old Alex Bregman, who hits second in the Astros' batting order against left-handers, will play a key role during games when Houston faces that trio.
Bregman has been fantastic against left-handed pitching this year, hitting .341 with seven home runs and a .974 OPS. He'll hit behind George Springer and ahead of Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa, all of whom hit left-handers well.
If that quartet of players gets hot, they have a chance to dominate this series.
       
World Series Pick
The Los Angeles Dodgers will win the World Series in six games thanks to its superior bullpen, which has been lights-out in the regular season and postseason.
Closer Kenley Jansen is one of the best in the business, and he's supported by an abundance of solid relievers. Manager Dave Roberts has the luxury of mixing and matching thanks to that talented collection of arms, and that will be the difference.



If Game 4 of the National League Championship Series against the Los Angeles Dodgers was Jake Arrieta's swan song in a Chicago Cubs uniform, at least he went out on a winning note.
The Cubs lost the NLCS four games to one. The Dodgers are headed to the World Series; the defending champions are going home.
Game 4 was the lone bright spot for the Cubbies. Arrieta went 6.2 strong innings, allowing one run on three hits and fanning nine. He looked a lot like the guy who garnered NL Cy Young Award honors in 2015.
Chicago prevailed, 3-2, giving the Wrigley Field faithful something to cheer about before their eventual elimination.
Cubs fans roared, in full-throated fashion, for Arrieta as he exited the field and doffed his hat.
"Hopefully, it's not a goodbye. It's a thank you, obviously," Arrieta said of his Game 4 performance, per Chris Kuc of the Chicago Tribune. "If that's where it ends, I did my best and I left it all out there."

This winter, Arrieta will test free agency. Someone will reward him handsomely, and unless the Cubs are willing to pay the market rate for an ace—$100-plus million—he'll be hurling baseballs in a new city.
Arrieta's mega-payday wasn't always a foregone conclusion. On June 5, his average fastball velocity was sitting at 91.8 mph compared to a career average of 93.2, and his ERA was an unsightly 4.60.
As this writer noted at the time, "No one who has watched Arrieta pitch this season...would argue he's an unequivocal ace. He's shown flashes, but the decline in velocity and bumpy results are crimson flags flapping in the North Side breeze."
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
He came on strong after the All-Star break and posted a 2.28 ERA in the second half. He wobbled in September, coughing up seven earned runs and 15 hits in 10.1 innings, but he struck out 13 while yielding just one earned run in 10.2 postseason innings.
The 31-year-old showed enough to pencil his name next to Dodgers right-hander Yu Darvish atop the 2017-18 free-agent pitching class.
"He's a squirrel with a lot of nuts in the tree," said superagent Scott Boras, who represents Arrieta, per Mark Gonzales of the Chicago Tribune. "He's a big-game squirrel."
It's a clumsy metaphor, but Boras knows how to get his clients their acorns.
Arrieta, too, sounded confident he'd land a whopping contract and appeared prepared to part ways with the Cubs in August, per USA Today's Bob Nightengale:
"It's completely business, so I get it. [The Cubs] haven't offered me anything because they know if they do, it's probably not something I would accept, so why make the offer? I get it.
"If you let that stuff bother you, you don't completely understand the sport, because that's part of it. They have to do what's in the best interest of the organization in the long-term. Is that spending money on me or getting a guy like [Jose] Quintana? They're going to try to establish a rotation without spending $30 million-plus a season, and maybe sign another bat. Who knows what they do?"

That's more than the usual, out-of-my-hands, wait-and-see platitudes you hear from impending free agents. That's a guy who gets the business side of the game and is prepared to follow the money.
The Cubs owe 33-year-old Jon Lester $27.5 million in 2018 and 2019, $20 million in 2020 and $25 million in 2021 with a $10 million buyout.
Quintana's relatively affordable deal pays him between $8.85 million and $11.5 million through 2020 with a pair of $1 million buyouts in 2019 and 2020.
Right-hander Kyle Hendricks is entering salary arbitration after finishing third in NL Cy Young Award voting in 2016 and posting a 3.03 ERA in 139.2 injury-shortened innings this season.
Each of the Cubs' top five prospects are pitchers, per MLB.com, but none appear ready to join the 2018 rotation. There's room for them to re-sign Arrieta. 
There will be competition for his services, however. The Dodgers, New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox—baseball's top three teams by payroll, per Spotrac—could all be in the market for a frontline starter. Others will be in the hunt.

Sinking dollars into a starter in his early 30s carries risk. The Red Sox handed David Price a seven-year, $217 million pact before the 2016 season and have watched the decorated southpaw battle injury and inconsistency. 
On the other hand, the Washington Nationals signed Max Scherzer to a seven-year, $210 million contract in January 2015 ahead of his age-30 season, and he's likely to win a second straight (and third career) Cy Young Award.
A deal exceeding $100 million is in Arrieta's future. Boras and his track record will see to that. Maybe the Cubs will give it to him. More likely, someone else will.
He went out on a winning note in 2017, and he's about to be compensated accordingly.
Revel in that NLCS cap-tipping, Cubbies followers. It could be your final Arrieta moment.  
         
All statistics and contract information courtesy of Baseball-Reference. 



The New York Mets announced Monday that they have hired Cleveland Indians pitching coach Mickey Callaway as the team's newest manager.
Joel Sherman of the New York Post first reported the deal Sunday, with Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reporting Callaway will receive a three-year contract.
The 42-year-old spent the past four years with Cleveland after a five-year career as a major league pitcher.
He was reportedly one of four finalists for the job along with Joe McEwing, Manny Acta and Kevin Long, per Marc Carig of Newsday.
Those candidates along with Alex Cora, who was also interviewed before agreeing to become the Boston Red Sox's next manager Sunday, had a connection with the Mets after spending time with the team either as players or coaches. Callaway has spent his entire career in the American League, but the front office clearly saw enough from him to name him the newest manager.
Many see this addition as a chance to help the young rotation:
An #Indians official asked me recently, “Why WOULDN’T the Mets hire Mickey Callaway?” Saw him as perfect fit for team built around pitching.
#Mets make the bold, outside-of-the-box pick in Mickey Callaway to succeed Terry Collins. Will hopefully help re-shape the rotation too.
The Mets have one of the most talented pitching staffs in the majors led by Noah Syndergaard and Jacob deGrom, but injuries and poor play led to a 5.01 ERA to rank third-worst in baseball. Meanwhile, the Indians led all teams with a 3.30 ERA despite dealing with their own injuries.
A year after reaching the World Series, Cleveland finished with an AL-best record of 102-60, fueled by a 22-game winning streak into mid-September. While the team has some talented hitters, the pitching staff was a big part of the team's success during this stretch and was fronted by Cy Young Award candidate Corey Kluber. 
Callaway will hope his expertise will help turn around a Mets franchise that went just 70-92 this season after consecutive playoff berths the previous two seasons. Manager Terry Collins, 68, resigned after seven years with the club, leaving a path for some new young blood in the organization.
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron



The Houston Astros haven't won a World Series in their franchise history, which dates back to 1962, when they were known as the Colt .45s.
The Los Angeles Dodgers haven't made the Fall Classic since 1988, when they beat the Oakland Athletics in five games.
One drought is going to end soon as the two teams do battle in the 2017 World Series.
Here's a look at the schedule and television guide for each game, in addition to a prediction below.
         
Schedule (via MLB.com)
Tuesday, October 24 (Game 1): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Wednesday, October 25 (Game 2): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Friday, October 27 (Game 3): Los Angeles Dodgers at Houston Astros
Saturday, October 28 (Game 4): Los Angeles Dodgers at Houston Astros
*Sunday, October 29 (Game 5): Los Angeles Dodgers at Houston Astros
*Tuesday, October 31 (Game 6): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
*Wednesday, November 1 (Game 7): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Fox will televise each game, all of which will begin at 8 p.m. ET. MLB.TV subscribers can also live-stream the World Series. An asterisk indicates that the game will be played if necessary.
                   
The Houston Astros Will Win If...
The Astros bullpen has not fared well in the postseason, pitching to a 5.03 ERA. It was 5.70 before Game 7 of the American League Championship Series, but starting pitcher Lance McCullers Jr. threw four shutout innings in relief of Charlie Morton to shut the door.
The regular season wasn't much better, as the team finished 17th out of 30 MLB clubs in bullpen ERA (4.27).
That being said, it's not like the Houston bullpen is bereft of talented arms. Closer Ken Giles saved 34 games and managed a 2.30 ERA. Chris Devenski (2.68) and Will Harris (2.98) also fared well.
At this point, however, they are probably the only three relievers that would be used in a close game. Manager A.J. Hinch will likely turn to a few pitchers who started earlier this season (Brad Peacock, Joe Musgrove, Collin McHugh) before turning to the rest of the team's traditional relievers.
The starting pitching has been phenomenal in the postseason for the most part, and if that trend continues, it shortens the game, leaving less work for the bullpen. 
In turn, if the Astros' top three relievers return to their regular-season forms, then that will be a huge boost to the team.
                 
The Los Angeles Dodgers Will Win If...
No pitcher in Major League Baseball is better than ace Clayton Kershaw when he is at his apex. The 29-year-old has a lifetime ERA of 2.36, and that mark has sunk under 2.00 in three seasons. He's won the National League Cy Young Award three times and the NL MVP once. He's made the NL All-Star team for seven straight years as well.
It's been a remarkable run for the southpaw, who has earned a 144-64 record during that span. However, he hasn't fared as well in the playoffs, going 6-7 with a 4.40 ERA. Kershaw has also given up six homers in this year's postseason.
That being said, four of those dingers were in one game against the Arizona Diamondbacks. In the two games against the Chicago Cubs in the National League Championship Series since, Kershaw fared better, allowing just three earned runs over 11 innings while striking out 16.
Given the Dodgers' deep bullpen, L.A. doesn't even need Kershaw to be his usual ace self, as the 'pen can shorten the game significantly. That being said, the guess here is that Kershaw silences his postseason critics and tosses two gems in the playoffs, winning Games 1 and 5 thanks to his curveball.
         
The World Series Pick
Although the Houston Astros have the deeper bench and better hitting lineup, the Los Angeles Dodgers have three edges: They have home-field advantage, they have the much better bullpen and their starting rotation is arguably the best and deepest in baseball.
That should be enough to beat the Houston Astros, but it won't be easy. Look for the Dodgers to take the Fall Classic in six games.



After one of the more exciting seasons in recent memory, which featured three teams with 100 or more wins, Aaron Judge and the "thumbs down" Baby Bombers, 59 long bombs from Giancarlo Stanton, 22 straight wins from the Cleveland Indians and other notable feats, the Houston Astros and Los Angeles Dodgers will cap the year in the World Series.
Here's a look at the schedule and television coverage, in addition to three important players to keep an eye on in the Fall Classic. To make things a little more interesting, any 2017 All-Stars will be omitted.
         
Schedule (via MLB.com)
Tuesday, October 24 (Game 1): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Wednesday, October 25 (Game 2): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Friday, October 27 (Game 3): Los Angeles Dodgers at Houston Astros
Saturday, October 28 (Game 4): Los Angeles Dodgers at Houston Astros
*Sunday, October 29 (Game 5): Los Angeles Dodgers at Houston Astros
*Tuesday, October 31 (Game 6): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
*Wednesday, November 1 (Game 7): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Fox will televise each game, all of which will begin at 8 p.m. ET. MLB.TV subscribers can also live stream the World Series. An asterisk indicates the game will be played if necessary.
        
The 3 Most Important Players (Non All-Star Category)
Justin Verlander
In case you did a double take, no, Houston Astros starting pitcher Justin Verlander did not make the All-Star Game this year.
In fact, he hasn't made an appearance in the Midsummer Classic since 2013, which is hard to wrap your brain around considering his torrid stretch in an Astro uniform.
Verlander threw 16 innings of one-run ball against the New York Yankees in the American League Championship Series en route to winning two games and being named the ALCS MVP.
He'll have a tough draw in the World Series, as he'll start Game 2 in Dodger Stadium. However, he'll potentially have to toe the rubber on the road twice if Verlander goes Game 6 like he did in the ALCS.
But the 13-year veteran is battle-tested, and he's clearly stepped up in this year's playoffs. He may not throw nine innings of one-run ball with 13 strikeouts like he did in Game 2 against the Yankees, but Verlander will perform well in the spotlight.
             
Rich Hill
Three of the Los Angeles Dodgers' four postseason starters made the All-Star Game this year. All the fourth one (Rich Hill) did was win 12 games, earn a 3.32 ERA and throw nine perfect innings against the Pittsburgh Pirates before losing a 1-0 heartbreaker in the 10th off a solo home run from Josh Harrison.
You can put two and two together in order to realize that the Dodgers rotation is remarkably deep. Hill has a tough task ahead of him in the World Series, though, if he pitches the second game of the World Series, much like he did in the NLDS and NLCS. That means a face-off with the aforementioned Justin Verlander, so Hill is going to need to be sharp in order to keep L.A. in the game.
Still, Hill has the luxury of a deep bullpen behind him. If he goes five or even six innings without much damage, then he'll have done the job as he can hand the ball off to a collection of excellent setup men.
Hill has done well this postseason, allowing only three earned runs in nine innings and striking out 12. If he continues that trend, then the Hill vs. Verlander matchup in Game 2 (and perhaps Game 6, if the series goes that deep) should be special.
          
Enrique Hernandez
If you take a look at Enrique Hernandez's splits, you'll see that he's an absolute force against left-handers (.946 OPS) but struggles mightily against righties (.499 OPS).
Therefore, you probably won't see him unless Astro ace southpaw Dallas Keuchel is on the mound. That being said, Hernandez should see him twice provided the series goes five games, as the 2015 American League Cy Young winner will pitch Game 1 (and likely Game 5, if the ALCS rotation is followed once again).
Hernandez hit three home runs in Game 5 of the National League Championship Series to propel the Dodgers to an 11-1 win over the Chicago Cubs at Wrigley Field. He has tremendous pop against left-handers and is capable of even hitting one out against Keuchel, who is a master at keeping the ball low in the zone to induce ground balls.
The Hernandez-Keuchel battles should be fascinating to watch on the game's biggest stage.



Fact: By defeating the New York Yankees in the American League Championship Series, the Houston Astros became the first team in MLB history to win pennants in both the American League and the National League.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: Bob Nightengale



When looking back at MLB postseason series history, it's easy to point to one particular X-factor as the reason why a team did (or didn't) emerge victorious.
For example, in the 2004 American League Championship Series, the back end of the New York Yankee bullpen, which was very strong during the regular season, couldn't get the job done in Games 4 and 5 against the Boston Red Sox, who ended up taking the series in seven games after overcoming a 3-0 deficit.
Four guesses for the X-factor in this year's World Series, which features the Houston Astros and Los Angeles Dodgers, are below.
Here's a look at each of them, alongside the latest World Series odds.
     
Odds
Per David Purdum of ESPN, the Westgate SuperBook in Las Vegas has Los Angeles as a -140 favorite to win the World Series.
           
The Bottom-of-the-Order Bats of the Houston Astros
Any Houston Astro not named Jose Altuve or Carlos Correa failed to do much in the first five games of the American League Championship Series, but the bottom half of the order came alive in the last two contests.
Notably, Evan Gattis smacked a solo shot to break a scoreless tie, and Brian McCann hit a two-run double down the line to help give the Astros a 4-0 win over the Yankees in Game 7 of the ALCS.
The Astros will need to hit up and down the lineup to compete with the Dodgers, who might have the deepest pitching staff in baseball following the acquisition of ace Yu Darvish from the Texas Rangers.
             
The Form of Lance McCullers
The 23-year-old Lance McCullers dazzled in his first two years in the bigs, striking out 235 batters in 206.2 innings and earning a 3.22 ERA.
However, 2017 has been a little more difficult, as McCullers has battled injuries. He struggled in the second half of the campaign as his ERA dipped to 4.25.
That being said, McCullers was lights-out in the American League Championship Series, throwing 10 innings of one-run ball over the course of two games. His only blemish was a solo shot given up to Aaron Judge, who smacked 52 round-trippers in the regular season.
If McCullers can give the Astros a strong outing in Game 3 following starts from staff aces Dallas Keuchel and Justin Verlander, then that could go a long way toward a Houston World Series victory.
                      
The Health of Corey Seager
Los Angeles Dodgers shortstop Corey Seager missed the entire National League Championship Series with a back injury suffered in the previous playoff round.
It's hard to envision Seager missing the World Series, especially considering that he's been making progress, per Dodger manager Dave Roberts.
If Seager can return to his regular-season form, when he hit 22 home runs and managed a .295 batting average in his second straight All-Star campaign, then that will be a huge boost to the Dodger lineup.
Seager was also a reverse-splits hitter this year who actually did better against left-handers (.325 vs. southpaws), so he could be a key addition to the Dodger lineup when they face Astro lefty Dallas Keuchel.
        
The Energy of Yasiel Puig
Outfielder Yasiel Puig is one of the most entertaining players in baseball, and he clearly get the Dodger home crowd going with every bat flip, race around the bases or monster throw from right field.
If he gets hot at the plate or makes a big play or two in the field or on the base paths, then the momentum could shift strongly in the Dodgers' favor when they are at home, as the Los Angeles faithful will go crazy for the fan favorite.
Puig has enjoyed the best power season of his major league career, hitting 28 home runs and smacking 74 runs batted in. He's been scorching hot in the postseason, however, with 12 hits in 30 at-bats.
If he keeps up that hot streak, it could go a long way toward the Dodgers' first World Series title since 1988.



New York Yankees manager Joe Girardi said his future with the club is uncertain following the team's 4-0 loss to the Houston Astros in Game 7 of the American League Championship Series on Saturday night.
"There's no guarantees for me," he said, per Andrew Marchand of ESPN.com.
Added Girardi:
"I love what I do. I've always said the first thing I do is I always talk to my family first. They come first. Because I think when you have a job, I mean, your family has to buy in, too. So I'll sit down, talk to my wife and my kids and where they're at and what they're thinking, and then we'll see what the Yankees are thinking."
General manager Brian Cashman—also in the final year of a contract extension—was cagey when discussing Girardi's season with New York.
"I thought everybody did everything they possibly could to get where we wanted to go—to be the last team standing," he noted. "It is what it is."
He was also asked directly if he'd recommend Girardi should return but sidestepped the question.
"My recommendation will be to talk to our owner and sit down and find out what is next," Cashman said.
The Yankees exceeded expectations in 2017, finishing 91-71—the club's best record since 2012—and making the postseason for just the second time in five years. They did that behind a mix of young talents like Aaron Judge (25), Gary Sanchez (24), Greg Bird (24) and Luis Severino (23); players in their primes like Starlin Castro, Didi Gregorius, Masahiro Tanaka and Aroldis Chapman; and veterans such as Brett Gardner, Chase Headley, Matt Holliday and CC Sabathia.
That blend of young and old coalesced perfectly for New York, making it one of MLB's most exciting teams in 2017 and earning it the nickname the Baby Bombers. And with a stocked farm system, the future appears to be bright for the Yankees.
Whether Girardi will again guide that promising young corps remains to be seen, however.



The Houston Astros and Los Angeles Dodgers will meet in the 2017 World Series. It's a battle of two of the regular season's best teams, as Houston and L.A. were just two of three squads to win over 100 games (the other being the Cleveland Indians).
Here's a look at the playoff results so far, in addition to some early odds and predictions.
           
2017 Postseason Bracket
American League
Wild Card Game: New York Yankees 8, Minnesota Twins 4
Division Series (best-of-five): New York Yankees 3, Cleveland Indians 2
Division Series (best-of-five): Houston Astros 3, Boston Red Sox 1
Championship Series (best-of-seven): Houston Astros 4, New York Yankees 3
     
National League
Wild Card Game: Arizona Diamondbacks 11, Colorado Rockies 8
Division Series (best-of-five): Chicago Cubs 3, Washington Nationals 2
Division Series (best-of-five): Los Angeles Dodgers 3, Arizona Diamondbacks 0
Championship Series (best-of-seven): Los Angeles Dodgers 4, Chicago Cubs 1
     
Odds
According to David Purdum of ESPN, the Westgate SuperBook in Las Vegas lists the Dodgers as -140 favorites to win the World Series.
    
3 Predictions and a Pick
1. Jose Altuve Proves Why He Should Be the American League MVP
The 5'6" second baseman and five-time All-Star has led the league in hitting three straight years and is coming off a career-high .346 batting average this season.
He smacked three home runs in one game against the Boston Red Sox in the American League Division Series and created havoc on the base paths in Games 1 and 2 of the ALCS to provide key wins over the New York Yankees.
Thousands of words can be written about why Altuve is one of the best players in baseball, but he can simply do everything really well. He's one of the most consistent players in baseball and should continue his hot streak in the World Series.
      
2. Battle of the Bullpens Decides At Least 1 Game
The Los Angeles Dodgers bullpen, led by closer Kenley Jansen (5-0 record, 41 saves), is one of the best in the business. Last year, it finished fourth in Major League Baseball in ERA (3.38). That ERA has dipped to 0.94 in the postseason, which is the best in the majors.
Houston's bullpen has not fared nearly as well, and that could be a major difference in tight games if both starters depart. The Astros' bullpen ERA was in the bottom half of the league this year, taking 17th out of 30 major league clubs with a 4.27 mark.
The Astros may be able to sneak some innings from their starters if their backs are against the wall in a potential series-clinching game, but they can't afford to use that luxury throughout the entire series.
3. Clayton Kershaw is the World Series MVP
Yes, Clayton Kershaw hasn't looked like an ace this postseason, giving up six home runs in three outings. He also hasn't done as well in the playoffs over his career.
That being said, this is the best pitcher in baseball, with all due respect to the Washington Nationals' Max Scherzer, the Cleveland Indians' Corey Kluber and others.
Kershaw is a three-time National League Cy Young winner, a future Hall-of-Famer and perhaps the best pitcher this decade. Somehow, his 2.31 ERA this year was his worst mark since the 2012 season. For his career, he's managed to pitch under the 2.00 ERA mark on three occasions.
He'll take the ball in Game 1 and 5, provided the series goes that far (the guess here is that it will). Look for him to return to his dominant form as he wins both contests.
       
4. Dodgers 4, Astros 2
Los Angeles has the home-field advantage and a significant edge in the bullpen, and that should be the difference in a World Series victory.
The Astros' bats can't be put to sleep for an entire series, which the Yankees found out the hard way in the ALCS, so expect them to take charge for a game or two.
Still, unless the Astros' starting pitchers all go deep into games, L.A. should have the advantage in the late innings, especially in front of their home fans.
That will be the key when the Dodgers hoist the World Series trophy for the first time since 1988.



HOUSTON — History summoned on a muggy Saturday night, and it wasn't the mighty New York Yankees it was calling.
Instead, it crooked a finger at Evan Gattis, and the burly designated hitter responded by depositing a CC Sabathia slider high over the left field wall.
It waved at Brian McCann, and the veteran catcher received a pea just above ground level from third baseman Alex Bregman, seconds ahead of a sliding cleat, to tag Greg Bird in as pretty a defensive play as you will ever see.
It hollered toward Jose Altuve, and the 5'6" second baseman carried his bat damn near all the way to first base after punching an opposite-field homer, then emotionally flung the bat, which landed just outside the first base coaches' box.
It motioned to Justin Verlander, Charlie Morton, Carlos Correa, Lance McCullers Jr. and the rest of the gang, and in their 56th season, the Houston Astros won a Game 7 for the first time, swatting away the proud Yankees 4-0 to win the American League pennant.
The World Series opens Tuesday in Los Angeles, and the Astros will be there for only the second time in club history.
"We've got a lot of history up there in that light tower, but to go to the World Series for a second time…" Astros Hall of Famer Craig Biggio said, motioning up toward the retired numbers on display.
"These guys worked hard and played well together. And if you understand what we went through with [Hurricane] Harvey, to be able to give back to the fans, it's incredible.
"The people here needed this. Harvey didn't care what your address was."
Minute Maid Park swayed, roared and approved of this epic, command performance. My goodness, did it approve. The Yankees' half of the ninth was deafening, and the crowd counted down the final three outs.
"Crazy," Altuve said. "Since the first pitch, it was very loud.
"It was the loudest game I ever played."

Houston's lone World Series appearance was so long ago, the team was a National League club. That was in 2005, and the Astros ran into a buzz-saw pitching staff employed by the Chicago White Sox. The next World Series game these Astros win will be the first in franchise history.
Steps away from Biggio on the raucous field postgame as Verlander was accepting the American League Championship Most Valuable Player trophy, Nolan Ryan, the Hall of Famer and executive advisor to Astros owner Jim Crane, teared up.
"It's very special to see this team come together like it did and see the way they played," said Ryan, eyes glistening.
Over 27 years and 816 post- and regular-season games, Ryan was able to pitch in just one World Series contest, in relief—2.1 innings for the New York Mets against the Baltimore Orioles in 1969. From then until his retirement in 1993, he kept on chasing another, without ever catching up.
It's why, from different ends of the spectrum, Verlander and manager A.J. Hinch were emotional on one of the most memorable baseball Saturday nights this area has ever seen.
"This is why you play the game," Verlander said, supermodel fiancee Kate Upton by his side. "You can never expect this."

Said Hinch: "I never knew what it felt like to get to the World Series in any job I've had in 20 years. And now I do. And I have a great appreciation for what it takes to run this journey. We won 100-plus games in the regular season. We won a lot of games in the postseason so far. But it's not easy. This is a grind, and getting through so many ups and downs regardless of how the season goes is awesome when you get rewarded with a chance to win a world championship."
This is an Astros organization that stripped itself down to the studs, losing between 106 and 111 games over three seasons from 2011 to 2013, and then another 92 in 2014 as it was rebuilding around young, would-be stars such as Altuve and Correa.
"When I got here, no one talked about winning," said Hinch, who replaced Bo Porter as manager in '15. "And that was one of the first things that Altuve told me in my office, that he wanted to win. And that represented what the next step was for this organization."
The new Astros' unveiling came in 2015, when they rose up and won an AL wild-card spot, but they slipped last year, failing to make the playoffs before roaring back to win 101 games this year with a total that was second-most in club history behind Biggio's '98 team (102).
"The standards that have been established here, the work that's been put in, the synergy that goes on from the front office to the clubhouse, from ownership … we are really connected because we all have a common goal, and that's to win.
"And I don't care if you're old-school, new-school, analytical, traditional. It's about winning at this level."
Those wins, though, receded into the background briefly when Harvey struck in late August. Thousands were left homeless, powerless, car-less. Even weeks later, you can see displaced locals walking their leashed dogs through lobbies of hotels that have been good enough to extend a helping hand to them.

"Our fans have been through a lot with Hurricane Harvey," Correa said. "I'm just glad we can bring them joy."
One day earlier, with the Astros reeling and one game away from what would have been a stunning elimination after seizing a 2-0 lead in this best-of-seven series, it was Verlander who dominated over seven innings in winning his second game of this series.
Saturday, Morton, a 33-year-old journeyman who signed a modest two-year, $14 million deal with Houston last November, was spectacular over five shutout innings. Working with a fastball ranging up to 97 mph and a devastating curve checking in around 81 mph, he pumped in 14 strikes out of his 16 first-inning pitches. He threw just six balls over 34 pitches through three innings and a mere eight balls over four innings.
The crowd chanted his name as he pitched ("I was very aware of it," he said). They greeted him warmly out near the right field bullpen when he went to warm up before the game.
"To that degree, this moment is so special to me," Morton said. "I feel in my career like I've let a lot of people down. I feel like I've let a lot of fans down.
"To have people on their feet, it gave me so much energy."
Regarding the strikes he kept pouring into the zone, he said "I honestly felt just aggressive. With everything on the line, you can either ease your way into it, feel around the situation and try to make perfect pitches, or go after guys."
If his pitches weren't perfect in befuddling a Yankees team that finished with just three hits, erstwhile starter McCullers' four innings of one-hit relief were the next-best thing. His curveball is one of the most dominating wipeout pitches in the game. McCullers threw 41 of those babies over his 54-pitch outing. All 10 Yankees swings and misses with him on the mound came against the curve, and all 10 of his 1-2-3, ninth-inning pitches were curves.
"You know, he really does love the moment," Hinch said, and now McCullers and the Astros will have several more days' worth.

For starters, this will be the first World Series that features matching 100-win teams since 1970. Then, Baltimore (108-54) blitzed Cincinnati (102-60) in five games. Along with Houston's 101-61 record this year, the Dodgers went 104-58.
The Astros will wind up playing three of the game's jewel franchises this fall: They knocked out Boston in the Division Series, eliminated the Yankees in the ALCS and hope to prevent the Dodgers from winning their first World Series since 1988 over the next seven to 10 days.
"They're a great team," Altuve said. "It's going to be a fun World Series."
Added Carlos Beltran: "We've got a lot of similarities. They've got a lot of talent, like we do, and they seem to enjoy themselves and have great chemistry."
Just like the Astros. But on Saturday night…well, Los Angeles was still much further away than Harvey, and the sheer heartache of the down-and-out times of the is past receding, ever so slowly.
"I've touched on this before about having the experience of playing into a World Series with a city that kind of needed a boost and something to cheer for," said Verlander, referring to his 2006 and 2010 World Series appearances with Detroit.
"There are a lot of people who are really hurting right now in this city. And it gives the city something to rally around. It gives people something to cheer for that otherwise may not have a lot to be hopeful for.
"And to be a part of that, no matter how big or small it is, whether you're the MVP or the last pitcher in the bullpen, that's something you will never forget."
              
Scott Miller covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report. Follow Scott on Twitter and talk baseball. 



After the Houston Astros' 4-0 victory over the New York Yankees in Game 7 of the American League Championship Series on Saturday, the World Series is officially set as the Los Angeles Dodgers prepare to host the 'Stros in Game 1.
This will mark the first time the Astros and Dodgers have met in the World Series and the first time Houston has reached the World Series since relocating from the National League to the American League.
The Astros and Dodgers have both experienced lengthy droughts in terms of making it to the Fall Classic, which creates a fresh feeling surrounding the series.
Here is everything you need to know about when and how to watch the 2017 World Series, as the Astros vie for their first championship in franchise history and the Dodgers hope to secure their first since 1988.
     
World Series Odds (via Westgate Las Vegas' Jeff Sherman)
Dodgers: -140
Astros: +120
Current as of Saturday, Oct. 21. Check OddsShark for continually updated odds.
     
World Series Schedule
Game 1 (Tuesday, Oct. 24): Astros at Dodgers, 8:09 p.m. ET, Fox
Game 2 (Wednesday, Oct. 25): Astros at Dodgers, 8:09 p.m. ET, Fox
Game 3 (Friday, Oct. 27): Dodgers at Astros, 8:09 p.m. ET, Fox
Game 4 (Saturday, Oct. 28): Dodgers at Astros, 8:09 p.m. ET, Fox
Game 5* (Sunday, Oct. 29): Dodgers at Astros, 8:16 p.m. ET, Fox
Game 6* (Tuesday, Oct. 31): Astros at Dodgers, 8:09 p.m. ET, Fox
Game 7* (Wednesday, Nov. 1): Astros at Dodgers, 8:10 p.m. ET, Fox
* denotes if necessary
     
The Dodgers led Major League Baseball with 104 wins during the regular season and were atop the league for much of the season, but the Astros were never far behind, finishing with 101 victories.
L.A. has lost just one postseason game thus far, while Houston has had to overcome some adversity, including blowing a 2-0 lead over the Yankees in the ALCS before overcoming a 3-2 series deficit to win in seven games.
There is nationwide appeal when it comes to the 2017 World Series, as the Astros and Dodgers play in two of the biggest markets in the United States.
Even so, there is a certain charm attached to both teams since many of their best players are homegrown and not bought off the free-agent market.
That is true of the Astros, as AL MVP candidate Jose Altuve, shortstop Carlos Correa, third baseman Alex Bregman and outfielder George Springer were drafted or signed as amateurs.
As for the Dodgers, first baseman Cody Bellinger, shortstop Corey Seager and starting pitcher Clayton Kershaw have all been drafted and developed too.
There are many similarities between the Dodgers and Astros, as they both boast starting rotations bolstered by aces who have thrived in these playoffs, in addition to deep, powerful lineups that can light up the scoreboard at will.
The Dodgers have a pitching advantage overall since their starting four of Kershaw, Rich Hill, Yu Darvish and Alex Wood trumps that of Dallas Keuchel, Justin Verlander, Charlie Morton and Lance McCullers Jr.
Verlander has been the most dominant of them all, though, as he joined an exclusive list after shutting down the Yankees twice in the ALCS, per Elias Sports Bureau (h/t ESPN Stats & Info):
Pitchers to throw 24 straight scoreless innings when team facing elimination (per @EliasSports):

Justin Verlander
Madison Bumgarner https://t.co/65UyDV1cnb
Houston ranked second in Major League Baseball during the regular season with 238 home runs, led by Springer's 34 and 24 apiece from Altuve and Correa.
The Dodgers are no slouches in that department either, as six players hit at least 20 home runs during the regular season, including Bellinger and his 39.
Outfielder Enrique Hernandez had just 11 dingers, but he crushed three to go along with seven RBI in Game 5 of the NLCS, becoming the first player in postseason history to accomplish that feat, according to ESPN Stats & Info.
There isn't much separation between the Dodgers and Astros, which suggests a seven-game series could be in store with a razor-thin margin for error.
As MLB.com's Mike Petriello pointed out, the Dodgers may have the advantage because of the fact that the ALCS went seven games, whereas L.A. beat the Chicago Cubs in five in the NLCS:
This game reminds me of the NLWC, and Cubs/Nats Game 5, in that the Dodgers are the biggest winner of a game they aren't even in.
The biggest key may be the performance of the bullpens since Los Angeles has a significant edge in that regard during the playoffs thus far.
The Dodgers are led by closer Kenley Jansen and have a 0.94 bullpen ERA, which is best among all playoff teams.
That, coupled with L.A.'s knack for coming through in the clutch with big, two-out hits late in games, gives the Dodgers the slightest of advantages in their pursuit of a seventh World Series title.
Prediction: Dodgers in seven



For the first time since 1970, two teams with 100 or more wins will face off in the World Series when the 101-61 Houston Astros play the 104-58 Los Angeles Dodgers.
Houston is looking for its first World Series title in team history. The Astros made the Fall Classic once in 2005, losing four games to zero against the Chicago White Sox.
Los Angeles hasn't made the World Series since 1988, when it beat the Oakland Athletics in five games. The Dodgers have won six titles in franchise history.
Here's a look at the schedule and a complete guide to the World Series for each team.
             
Schedule
Tuesday, October 24 (Game 1): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Wednesday, October 25 (Game 2): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Friday, October 27 (Game 3): Los Angeles Dodgers at Houston Astros
Saturday, October 28 (Game 4): Los Angeles Dodgers at Houston Astros
*Sunday, October 29 (Game 5): Los Angeles Dodgers at Houston Astros
*Tuesday, October 31 (Game 6): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
*Wednesday, November 1 (Game 7): Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Fox will televise each game, all of which will begin at 8 p.m. ET. An asterisk indicates the game will be played if necessary.
     
Los Angeles Dodgers
How They Got Here
Remarkably, the Dodgers were two games under .500 and four games out of first place in late April.
However, L.A. found itself on top of the National League West after a successful May and embarked on a torrid stretch for the majority of the summer, going 56-11 over 67 games.
That sparked talk as to whether the Dodgers could break the 1906 Chicago Cubs and 2001 Seattle Mariners' record for most wins in a regular season (116), but L.A. then went on a 1-16 skid into mid-September.
The Dodgers still finished with 104 wins and proceeded to sweep the Arizona Diamondbacks in the National League Divisional Series before beating the defending World Series champion Chicago Cubs in a five-game National League Championship Series.
      
Hitting and Baserunning
L.A. has found offensive success through the long ball this year. Five Dodgers hit 21 or more home runs, with rookie first baseman Cody Bellinger leading the team with 39. The 22-year-old also paced L.A. with 97 RBI.
As a team, the Dodgers smacked 221 dingers, good enough for fourth in the National League.
The Dodgers are not going to create havoc on the base paths, but outfielder Chris Taylor is a fast leadoff hitter capable of taking the extra base. He led the team with 17 stolen bases (only two others had 10 or more).
Taylor was the co-NLCS MVP with third baseman Justin Turner, who was the only regular with a batting average higher than .300 (.322 to be exact). Elsewhere, outfielder Yasiel Puig was second on the team with 28 homers, and shortstop Corey Seager finished second with a .295 batting average.
Overall, the Dodgers' lineup is deep and balanced, with nearly everyone capable of hitting a ball out.
           
Pitching and Fielding
The Dodgers' starting rotation is the best in baseball, led by three-time National League Cy Young winner Clayton Kershaw.
The 29-year-old finished with 18 wins, 202 strikeouts and a 2.31 ERA this season. Fellow All-Star and southpaw Alex Wood also posted an excellent year, with 16 victories and a 2.72 ERA.
Trade deadline acquisition Yu Darvish and left-hander Rich Hill round out the rotation. Darvish went 4-3 with a 3.44 ERA and 61 strikeouts in 49.2 innings, while Hill won 12 and punched out 166 batters.
The bullpen is just as impressive and deep, led by closer and NL Cy Young candidate Kenley Jansen, who saved 41 games and went 5-0 with a 1.32 ERA. He's backed by a host of talented relievers, including Brandon Morrow (6-0, 2.06 ERA) and Josh Fields (5-0, 2.84 ERA).
L.A. finished in the middle of the major-league pack in errors and fielding percentage.
      
Houston Astros
How They Got Here
The Houston Astros took first place in the American League West on April 14 and never looked back, nearly leading the division wire to wire throughout the entire season.
Houston's first half of the year was scalding hot, as it went 54-27 to start. The Astros cooled off a bit in the end of July and August, but they maintained a double-digit game lead in the division throughout the entire summer.
A 20-win September helped buoy the team to 101 wins en route to finishing with the No. 2 seed behind the Cleveland Indians in the American League playoffs.
Houston beat the Boston Red Sox three games to one in the American League Division Series before winning a tough, hard-fought seven-game American League Championship Series with the New York Yankees.
     
Hitting and Baserunning
The Houston Astros were the best hitting team in baseball this year, sporting a .282 batting average. They also finished second in home runs with 238.
Second baseman Jose Altuve, a front-runner for the American League MVP award, led the majors with a .346 average.
Shortstop Carlos Correa, outfielder Josh Reddick and utility man Marwin Gonzalez also eclipsed the .300 mark, with first baseman Yuli Gurriel falling just short at .299.
Outfielder and leadoff hitter George Springer paced the team with 34 home runs. He, Altuve and Correa started for the All-Star team.
Altuve also led the Astros with 34 stolen bases. Third baseman Alex Bregman (17) is the only other Astro with 10 or more steals.
      
Pitching and Fielding
The Houston Astros have two dominant aces at the top of their rotation in the form of left-hander Dallas Keuchel and right-hander Justin Verlander, who came over to Houston from the Detroit Tigers after an August trade.
Keuchel finished the season with 14 wins and a 2.90 ERA, and Verlander went 5-0 with a 1.06 ERA. He also struck out 43 batters in 34 innings.
The X-factor is Lance McCullers, a dominant pitcher for most of his young career who battled injuries in the second half of this season.
McCullers looked like he returned to form in the American League Championship Series, however, most notably when he threw four shutout innings to close the door on the Yankees in Game 7.
Charlie Morton will be the likely fourth starter, and he's earned that right after throwing five brilliant shutout frames in Game 7 to earn the victory.
The bullpen has been inconsistent, finishing 17th in the major leagues in ERA. As Houston showed in this series, however, it can call on one of its other starters to do the job in a series-clinching game.
Houston's fielding has been spotty, as it finished 20th in the league in errors with 99.
        
Prediction
The Houston Astros have the edge at the plate, but the Dodgers have a deeper starting rotation and bullpen. They also have home-field advantage, which is important considering that Minute Maid Park has been raucous this postseason.
In the end, the Dodgers will win the World Series in six, and Clayton Kershaw will be the MVP after winning two games.



The Houston Astros held serve at home in the American League Championship Series, defeating the New York Yankees 4-0 in Game 7 on Saturday to clinch the franchise's second-ever trip to the World Series. 
After losing three straight games at Yankee Stadium and facing elimination coming back to Minute Maid Park, the Astros returned home to defeat the Yankees in the last two games to win the AL pennant for the first time. 
Jose Altuve and Evan Gattis both hit solo home runs. Brian McCann chipped in with a two-run double in the fifth inning to cap off Houston's offensive output. 
After winning 101 games during the regular season, the Astros will be in search of their first victory in a World Series game when they take on the Los Angeles Dodgers beginning Tuesday at Dodger Stadium.
Houston's only previous trip to the Fall Classic came in 2005, when it was swept by the Chicago White Sox in four games. 
Per ESPN Stats & Info, based on the records of Houston and Los Angeles, this kind of championship matchup hasn't happened in 47 years:
This is the first matchup of 100-win teams in the World Series since 1970, when the 108-win Orioles beat the 102-win Reds.
The game began as a pitching duel between CC Sabathia and Charlie Morton. Both starters held the opposition scoreless through the first three innings. 
The Astros were making Sabathia work hard, especially after the former AL Cy Young winner needed just seven pitches in the first inning. He gave up at least one hit and one walk in the next three innings. 
Fortunately for Sabathia, Aaron Judge is very tall in right field. The likely 2017 AL Rookie of the Year made a spectacular defensive play for the first out in the second inning by robbing Yuli Gurriel of a home run:
There's what clutch Aaron Judge catch to steal a homer https://t.co/GQEPSr9M5k
It's easy to get wrapped up in Judge's prodigious power, which produced 52 home runs during the regular season, but ESPN's Jerry Crasnick noted he's also an excellent defender:
Aaron Judge was fifth among MLB right fielders with 9 Defensive Runs Saved this season. He's been terrific defensively in October.
Things would remain scoreless until the fourth inning when the Astros finally broke through off Sabathia on Gattis' solo homer that just missed the Crawford Boxes in left field:
Good luck robbing this one. #Game7 https://t.co/3Rn1N911HJ
Per ESPN's Jayson Stark, Gattis had been in a power slump dating back to the middle of summer before getting Houston on the board:
Evan Gattis had hit one HR since July before that prodigious swing
Sabathia's night—and possibly his Yankees career, since he will be a free agent—ended three batters later after giving up a walk to Brian McCann and a Josh Reddick single. It was not a good two-day stretch for New York starting pitchers, as noted by Joel Sherman of the New York Post:
Severino/CC combined to give #Yankees just 8 IP combined in Gs 6-7. #Astros
Going back to Game 6, there were indications the Astros offense was on the verge of ending its series-long slump. Houston exploded for four runs in the bottom of the eighth inning to take what was a two-run game and make the final 7-1.
Mike Axisa of CBS Sports wrote about what Houston's lineup was doing in the first five games against Yankees pitching:
"The Astros, as a team, went into Game 6 hitting .147/.234/.213 in the ALCS. Altuve went hitless in Games 3-5 in New York before picking up the two-run single and solo homer in Game 6. Carlos Correa went 2 for 12 in Games 3-5 before going 2 for 4 in Game 6. McCann? He was 0 for the postseason before his double broke the scoreless tie."
After Sabathia wobbled his way through 3.1 innings, the Astros finally broke down the dam in the bottom of the fifth with three runs off reliever Tommy Kahnle.
Before Houston's offense got going, though, the defense stepped up in a big way behind Morton. Greg Bird started the fifth inning with a double and advanced to third on a wild pitch, but he was thrown out at the plate on a perfect throw from third baseman Alex Bregman to McCann. 
MLB.com's Joe Posnanski had this assessment of what went down on Bregman's play to get Bird out and keep the score 1-0:
Smoltz credits Bregman with “Baseball IQ” on play. I don’t know. Throwing home there was a bit crazy. He just made a once in a decade throw.
The Yankees' Achilles heel all season has been playing on the road. They were the only playoff team with a losing record away from home during the regular season (40-41), and they went just 1-6 away from Yankee Stadium in the postseason. 
This was the first playoff series since the 2004 NLCS, featuring the Astros and St. Louis Cardinals, in which the home team won all seven games. 
New York began the ALDS against Cleveland being shut out 4-0 when Trevor Bauer threw 36 curveballs out of his 98 pitches. That blueprint carried through to Game 7 of the ALCS for Morton and reliever Lance McCullers, per ESPN's David Schoenfield:
Morton and McCullers: 108 combined pitches, 77 curveballs. Awesome performance.
Even though the Yankees' young core missed out on an opportunity to reach the World Series this year, their future remains incredibly bright. Judge, Gary Sanchez, Luis Severino, Greg Bird and Didi Gregorius are all under the age of 28, and they will have a full season of Sonny Gray in the rotation in 2018. 
The Astros were the best team in the AL for most of the season, despite finishing one game behind Cleveland in the overall standings. They struck gold on Aug. 31 by adding Justin Verlander to their starting rotation, pairing him with Dallas Keuchel, and closed the season by going 21-8 from Sept. 1-Oct. 1. 
Three years ago, when the Astros were in the midst of their fourth straight season with at least 90 losses, Sports Illustrated predicted they would win the 2017 World Series. 
With four more victories, the Astros will make that bold prognostication a reality. 
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron



Alex Cora's wait to become a manager in Major League Baseball has come to an end.
The Red Sox announced Sunday they agreed to a three-year contract with the Houston Astros bench coach, which will start after the World Series.
Pete Abraham of the Boston Globe reported the contract includes a fourth-year team option.
Tim Britton of the Providence Journal shared comments from Cora in the release:
Cora’a comments in an emailed statement from the club: https://t.co/qcqZ84BIcG
The Athletic's Ken Rosenthal first reported the deal Saturday.
After retiring following spring training in 2012, Cora spent four years working as an analyst for ESPN. The Astros hired him as a bench coach prior to the 2017 season.
Before working with the Astros, Cora had multiple interviews with teams over the previous few years, including the Washington Nationals, San Diego Padres and Miami Marlins after the 2015 season, per Rosenthal.
Despite being well-regarded enough to get interviews before, Cora had no significant managerial experience on his resume. The 14-year MLB veteran did manage a winter ball team in his native Puerto Rico and was Puerto Rico's general manager for the 2017 World Baseball Classic when it reached the final before losing to Team USA.
Cora did have the support of Astros players as he sought after a managerial job.
"He's a player's guy," Astros center fielder George Springer told Abbey Mastracco of NJ Advanced Media. "It's easy to forget how hard it is when you're not playing the game and he hasn't forgotten that. He's into the game, he's for informational and he's going to be good someday somewhere."
Cora also has the benefit of a 14-year MLB career to understand what players need to make it through the grind of a long season and how to handle the media questions in good and bad times.
The hiring of Cora represents a shift in philosophy for the Red Sox, whose last three managers all had previous experience in the job.
It's hard to argue with the results produced by Terry Francona and John Farrell, who combined to win three World Series titles and made the playoffs eight times from 2004-17. The less said about Bobby Valentine's one-year run in 2012, the better.
Red Sox president Dave Dombrowski has never shied away from making a move that he thinks it will improve his team. Farrell was fired after the 2017 season despite winning back-to-back American League East titles.
Cora inherits an excellent situation in Boston with young talents such as Mookie Betts, Andrew Benintendi, Xander Bogaerts and Rafael Devers to build around. The pitching rotation has an excellent one-two punch in Chris Sale and David Price, assuming the latter can stay healthy in 2018 after throwing 74.2 innings last season.
The pieces are in place for Cora to succeed as a manager right away. The media in Boston does bring added pressure to the job, but he's well aware of it after playing with the Red Sox from 2005-08.
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron



The Los Angeles Dodgers await the winner of Saturday night's game between the New York Yankees and Houston Astros, which will decide the American League representative in the World Series.
First pitch is scheduled for 8 p.m. ET at Houston's Minute Maid Park, and FS1 will televise the contest. CC Sabathia will take the mound for the Yankees, and Charlie Morton will do the same for Houston. It's a pitching rematch of Game 3, which the Yanks won at home, 8-1.
Here's a look at three predictions for tonight's game, as well as a quick pick for the World Series.
      
Todd Frazier Delivers in the Clutch
Although Todd Frazier has struggled at the plate this postseason, hitting just .195 with a .250 on-base percentage, his hits have proved to be timely.
An RBI double broke an early scoreless tie in Game 4 of the ALDS against the Cleveland Indians. Another RBI double knotted Game 2 of the ALCS at one against the tough pitching of Justin Verlander (that was the only run he allowed all series).
Frazier hit a three-run homer in Game 3 of the ALCS to open the scoring and kick-started a key four-run rally in the eighth inning of Game 4.
Frazier's home run came off Morton, and the third baseman has had success against the right-hander throughout his career. In 19 regular-season plate appearances, Frazier has two homers, a triple, two doubles and two singles, totaling a 1.365 OPS.
The former member of the Cincinnati Reds and Chicago White Sox, who came over to the Bronx in a July deal, will answer the call once again and deliver a couple of timely hits.
     
Morton Leaves Early
For the record, Morton is a solid pitcher enjoying one of the best seasons of his career. He went 14-7 with a 3.62 ERA this season, striking out more than a batter per inning.
That being said, it's difficult seeing him go deep in this game, especially after he didn't get through the fourth during the Game 3 loss to the Yankees. He has also averaged fewer than six innings per start for the year.
The Yankees are a normally patient team that takes a lot of pitches. That wasn't the case Friday, as many Yankees were hacking away at Verlander's pitches early in the count, but expect the Yanks to return to their roots, take pitches and do anything possible to get on base.
Morton will fare better than he did in Game 3, but he will depart by the middle of the game.
       
Keuchel and McCullers Shut Down Yankees
Normally, a departing starter means a reliever is coming in from the bullpen, but there are no rules in Game 7 of playoff series. Anything can go, such as starter Madison Bumgarner closing out the 2014 World Series or starter Sid Fernandez throwing a few shutout innings in relief of starter Ron Darling in 1986.
Barring a complete game, when Morton leaves, we'll likely see starters Lance McCullers Jr. and Dallas Keuchel in relief. It's conceivable that any of the usual members of the Astros bullpen, which has struggled this postseason, don't enter Game 7.
Although Keuchel struggled in a Game 5 loss, allowing four earned runs in 4.2 innings, he still struck out eight and has dominated the Yankees in the past, notably doing so with 10 strikeouts in seven shutout innings in Game 1.
McCullers' sharp breaking balls can get the best of the Yankees, as they did when he threw six-plus innings of one-run ball (the only run was an Aaron Judge homer to lead off the seventh) in Game 2.
Expect both pitchers to make appearances in this game, with each of them performing well and shutting down the Yankees bats.
             
ALCS and World Series Picks
Take the Yankees to win Game 7 by a score of 5-4 as they jump out to an early lead and hold on late against the Astros bats, which came alive at the end of Game 6 thanks to seven runs, which almost eclipsed their entire run totals for the first five games of the ALCS (nine).
The Yanks will move on to the World Series, where the Dodgers await them. L.A. matches up well with the Yankees, as the Dodgers' starting rotation and bullpen are lights-out. They also have power throughout their entire lineup.
The Dodgers were once 91-36 this season, making folks wonder whether they could set the all-time record for most wins in a season (116). A skid ended that talk, but L.A. has bounced back and looks like the team it was earlier this year after winning seven of eight playoff games.
The other issue for the Yanks is their defense, which can fail them in bunches at times. Notably, they committed three errors in the first inning of Sonny Gray's debut with the team.
Catcher Gary Sanchez has a strong arm, but he has trouble stopping the ball and even catching it for plays at the plate sometimes. Starlin Castro committed two errors in one game this series, and Frazier has a few booted balls on his record as well.
Overall, defense isn't the team's strong suit, and at some point, it could be the team's downfall.
In the World Series, take the Dodgers to win in seven games behind its shutdown rotation and bullpen, which will leave little room for error.



The Chicago Cubs' Chris Bosio and the San Francisco Giants' Dave Righetti, both pitching coaches for their respective teams, were reportedly fired Saturday.
USA Today's Bob Nightengale reported Bosio's ouster, while ESPN.com confirmed a report by FanRag Sports' Robert Murray that Righetti will transition to a front office role with the organization.
Bosio had been Chicago's pitching coach since 2012 and was in charge of the staff that led the Cubs to a World Series title last season.
According to Nightengale, Cubs manager Joe Maddon is considering replacing Bosio with Jim Hickey, who served as the Tampa Bay Rays pitching coach from 2007-17 and was the pitching coach for all but the first season of Maddon's nine-year tenure with the team.
After leading Major League Baseball with a 3.15 ERA during the 2016 regular season, Chicago dipped to seventh in 2017 with a 3.95 ERA.
It also posted a 4.52 ERA during the playoffs, and the bullpen struggled mightily with a 6.21 ERA in 37.2 innings.
Righetti had been San Francisco's pitching coach since 2000, helping lead the Giants to World Series titles in 2010, 2012 and 2014.
The 2017 campaign was a nightmarish one for the Giants from top to bottom, however, as they finished 64-98 and missed the playoffs.
Without injured ace starting pitcher Madison Bumgarner for a large chunk of the season, San Francisco ranked 16th in Major League Baseball with an ERA of 4.50. The Giants had ranked fourth last year with a 3.65 ERA.
In addition to their coaching exploits, Bosio and Righetti were major league pitchers.
Bosio was primarily a starter from 1986 through 1996 with the Milwaukee Brewers and Seattle Mariners, posting a career record of 94-93 with a 3.96 ERA.
Righetti was a two-time All-Star, two-time Rolaids Reliever of the Year and the 1981 American League Rookie of the Year. He pitched 16 seasons with the Giants, New York Yankees, Oakland Athletics, Toronto Blue Jays and Chicago White Sox.
Righetti transitioned from a starter to a reliever in his fourth season and finished his career with an 82-79 record, 252 saves and a 3.46 ERA.
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron



The Houston Astros and New York Yankees will do battle at Minute Maid Park on Saturday night at 8 p.m. ET to decide the American League representative in this year's MLB World Series.
The winner will face the Los Angeles Dodgers, who cruised through the postseason after winning seven of eight games against the Arizona Diamondbacks and Chicago Cubs.
Here's a look ahead at the World Series schedule and format, followed by ALCS and World Series predictions.
       
Schedule
Tuesday, October 24 (Game 1): AL Pennant Winner at Los Angeles
Wednesday, October 25 (Game 2): AL Pennant Winner at Los Angeles
Friday, October 27 (Game 3): Los Angeles at AL Pennant Winner
Saturday, October 28 (Game 4): Los Angeles at AL Pennant Winner
Sunday, October 29 (Game 5): Los Angeles at AL Pennant Winner
Tuesday, October 31 (Game 6): AL Pennant Winner at Los Angeles
Wednesday, November 1 (Game 7): AL Pennant Winner at Los Angeles
Fox will televise each game, all of which will begin at 8 p.m. ET. An asterisk indicates that the game will be played if necessary.
         
Format
Like the Championship Series, the World Series is best-of-seven, with the first team to win four games taking the crown.
Also like the LCS, the World Series follows a two-three-two system, where the team with home-field advantage hosts the first two and final two matchups (if the latter are necessary).
In previous years, the American League and National League alternated home-field advantage. Then, the winner of the All-Star Game decided which league representative would receive that distinction.
However, the Fall Classic team with the best regular-season record now hosts the extra game. By virtue of finishing with a league-best 104 wins, the Dodgers will receive that advantage this year regardless of whether the Yankees (91 wins) or Astros (101 victories) take Game 7.
One final format note and quirk: The designated hitter can be used in American League parks, but that is not the case for NL fields. Therefore, no DH will be seen in Games 1 and 2, or Games 6 and 7 if the series goes that deep.
       
ALCS Prediction
The pitching matchup for Game 7 of the ALCS is a rematch of Game 3, with the Astros' Charlie Morton and the Yankees' CC Sabathia facing off.
In that contest, the Yankees won 8-1 behind six shutout frames from Sabathia and home runs off the bats of Todd Frazier and Aaron Judge.
Don't expect this contest to be a blowout like last time. First, the Astros should have everyone on their pitching staff available (with perhaps the notable exception of Justin Verlander, who threw seven innings on Friday).
Therefore, if Morton falls into early trouble, we'll likely see starters Dallas Keuchel and Lance McCullers as opposed to a Houston bullpen that has a 5.70 ERA in the postseason.
That's a big advantage to Houston, in addition to its home-field advantage.
However, the Yankees have one edge as well: They don't have to face flame-thrower Verlander, who has won two games in the ALCS while throwing 16 innings of one-run ball.
Morton is a solid pitcher and much better than what his Game 3 outing (seven earned runs) showed, but the Yankee bats can get to him. Notably, Frazier and Starlin Castro have smacked three home runs apiece off Morton lifetime.
New York also has a fantastic bullpen (third-best in regular-season ERA) and bench that can come in handy during the late innings.
This Game 7 should live up to the hype. It's a toss-up, but give the slightest of edges to the Yankees in a 5-4 victory.
         
World Series Prediction
If the Yankees advance to the Fall Classic, then expect a fantastic series between two teams that hit for power and sport deep pitching staffs.
The Los Angeles Dodgers have a couple advantages. Notably, they have ace Clayton Kershaw, who is a three-time NL Cy Young award winner. Kershaw hasn't looked like his usual dominant self this postseason, but to put it simply, this is Kershaw we are talking about. Like Albert Pujols in the ESPN commercial, sometimes, he is a machine.
He'll toe the slab for Games 1 and likely 5 (if the latter is necessary) and might be available in relief if the series goes to a seventh game.
Furthermore, the Dodgers have the best closer in the game in Kenley Jansen, who has saved 88 games and registered a 1.58 ERA in his past two seasons. He hasn't given up an earned run in his last 12 postseason appearances dating back to the 2016 NLCS. If the Dodgers have a late-inning lead, then they have a massive advantage over any team.
The Yankees' main edge is that they have a raucous home-field advantage at Yankee Stadium, where they have won all six of their 2017 playoff games in addition to 51 regular-season contests. They also have a deeper bench (e.g. speed with Jacoby Ellsbury, power with Matt Holliday, defense with Ronald Torreyes).
However, the Dodgers have an extra game at home, which will be the difference in a classic seven-game series. Look for L.A. to win its first World Series in 29 years.



As the Los Angeles Dodgers bide their time at home, the New York Yankees and Houston Astros will battle it out in a seventh game of the American League Championship Series on Saturday night at Minute Maid Park.
Home field has been kind to both teams, with the home team winning each game. The Yankees will try to counter that edge with veteran pitcher CC Sabathia getting the starting assignment. Charlie Morton will take the mound for the Astros.
The seventh game is scheduled for 8 p.m. ET and will be televised by FS1.
The winner will go to Los Angeles for Game 1 of the World Series on Tuesday night at 8 p.m. ET. The Dodgers won the NLCS, defeating the Chicago Cubs in five games. Dave Roberts' team earned the title Thursday night, and the manager will have a chance to set his pitching rotation and his lineup as the American Leaguers battle it out.
The World Series will be televised by Fox and will be live-streamed at MLB.TV.
Here's a look at the schedule for the Fall Classic:
          
Tuesday, Oct. 24
Game 1, New York/Houston at Los Angeles, Time TBD, Fox
Wednesday, Oct. 25
Game 2, New York/Houston at Los Angeles, Time TBD, Fox
Friday, Oct. 27
Game 3, Los Angeles at New York/Houston, Time TBD, Fox
Saturday, Oct. 28
Game 4, Los Angeles at New York/Houston, Time TBD, Fox
Sunday, Oct. 29
Game 5, Los Angeles at New York/Houston, Time TBD, Fox, if necessary
Tuesday, Oct. 31
Game 6, New York/Houston at Los Angeles, Time TBD, Fox, if necessary
Wednesday, Nov. 1
Game 7, New York/Houston at Los Angeles, Time TBD, Fox, if necessary
Picture-perfect. #ThisTeam https://t.co/1LgyOe8F28
The Dodgers have had a memorable season, and they are surging at the most critical time of the year.
They were the best team in baseball by a wide margin for three-quarters of the season, and they were on track to win 110 games or more through the middle of August. However, they hit a terrible skid late in the month that carried into the middle of September.
The Dodgers lost 16 of 17 games with the playoffs around the corner, and they did not look like a team that was capable of winning a series against a mediocre opponent, let alone beating other championship contenders.
They came out of their slump in the final 10 games of the regular season, but they appeared to be on shaky ground as they prepared to play the Arizona Diamondbacks in the National League Division Series. They had been swept in two three-game series by Arizona during their losing skid, and the power bats of Paul Goldschmidt and J.D. Martinez loomed large.
However, Roberts and his team had no concerns, and they eliminated the wild-card winners in three straight games. The 2016 World Series champion Cubs were unable to come up with any solutions, either.
The Dodgers rolled to an 11-1 triumph in the fifth game and celebrated the National League title at Wrigley Field. Enrique Hernandez, one of the Dodgers' role players, shocked observers with a three-home run performance that included a grand slam in the clinching game.
The Dodgers have been getting clutch hitting throughout the postseason from a number of key performers. Third baseman Justin Turner is hitting .387 with three home runs and 12 RBI, while right fielder Yasiel Puig is hitting .414 with a home run, six RBI and six runs scored.
"This is one of the most unbelievable teams I've ever been part of," Turner said, per Bill Plaschke of the Los Angeles Times. "Every night, it's somebody different, something special. You never know what you're going to see, maybe even somebody hit three home runs in a series-clinching game."
Cody Bellinger and Chris Taylor both have hit two home runs and driven in four runs, while Logan Forsythe is hitting .316 with six runs scored.
Starting pitchers Clayton Kershaw and Yu Darvish both have 2-0 records, as does reliever Kenta Maeda. Kershaw has had postseason struggles throughout his career, and while he hasn't been lights-out in the postseason, he has a 3.63 ERA along with 16 strikeouts in 17.1 innings. Darvish has a 1.59 ERA and an impressive 14 strikeouts in 11.1 innings.

If the Yankees survive the seventh game, they will depend on their power bats against the Dodgers. Aaron Judge has hit four postseason home runs to lead the team after belting 52 during the regular season. Gary Sanchez, Didi Gregorius and Greg Bird have each hit three home runs in the playoffs.
The Astros are led by American League MVP candidate Jose Altuve, who is hitting .405 in the postseason with four home runs and seven RBI. First baseman Yuli Gurriel is hitting .378 with 14 hits in the postseason, while Carlos Correa has three home runs and nine RBI.
While the winner of Saturday's ALCS will have to leave everything on the field to earn the title, that team will be aided by two full days of rest prior to Game 1 of the World Series.



The Houston Astros were not about to return to Minute Maid Park and hand the American League Championship Series to the New York Yankees. After dropping three games at Yankee Stadium, the Astros combined timely hitting with Justin Verlander's shutdown pitching to record a 7-1 victory Friday night.
The series is tied 3-3, and the Houston win forces a seventh game, which will be played Saturday at 8 p.m. and will be televised by FS1.
Charlie Morton will take the mound for the Astros, and he was 14-7 with a 3.62 earned-run average during the regular season. Morton has had his issues in the postseason, with an 0-1 record and a 10.13 ERA.
CC Sabathia will take the mound for the Yankees, and he had a solid regular season with a 14-5 record and a 3.69 ERA. Sabathia has gotten the job done in the postseason with a 1-0 record and 2.30 ERA. The big lefthander has struck out 19 hitters with seven walks throughout the playoffs.

While Sabathia would seem to give the Yankees an edge in the decisive game, Houston manager A.J. Hinch will have all hands on deck in a Game 7, and that includes Dallas Keuchel. 
Verlander met with the press after Game 6 and said his availability will depend on how he feels when he arrives at the Minute Maid Park Saturday.
Sabathia is looking forward to leading the Yankees in the seventh game. “It’s going to be exciting, the opportunity to go to the World Series,” Sabathia said, per Mike Vaccaro of the New York Post. “One game. I’m excited.”
Yankee manager Joe Girardi said his team has won different types of games in the playoffs, and he is confident in his team.
"You know, we’ve won all kind of different games,” Girardi said. “We won some high-scoring games, we won one 1-0. It’s a situation these guys have been in a lot.”
The Astros were able to force a Game 7 as a result of timely hitting Friday night that backed Verlander's pitching. Brian McCann drove home the first run of the game with a fifth-inning ground-rule double, and Jose Altuve contributed a two-run single later that inning.
The Yankees scored their only run on Aaron Judge's fourth home run of the postseason in the eighth, but the Astros removed all the drama from the game with four runs in the bottom of the eighth inning.
The Astros are -125 favorites (bet $125 to win $100) for the winner-takes-all game, while the Yankees are +115 underdogs (bet $100 to win $115), according to OddsShark.
We will have a Game 7! https://t.co/6xs7YdqloV
Prediction
The home team has won the first six games in the ALCS, so we are safe in saying that the Astros will find a way to win Game 7 at home, correct?
Not necessarily. The Yankees have a solid veteran pitcher in Sabathia, who should remain calm and effective when facing the pressure of a winner-takes-all game.
Morton has a great arm and has swing-and-miss stuff, but he has not been at his best in the postseason. The Yankee batters saw Justin Verlander in Game 6, and they should have a much better chance of hitting Morton and the Houston relievers.
Here's another factor to consider: There have only been three best-of-seven series in Major League Baseball history that has seen the home team win every game. The 1987 Minnesota Twins beat the St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series in that manner, and the Twins did it again in 1991 against the Atlanta Braves. The 2001 Arizona Diamondbacks beat the New York Yankees in a seven-game World Series with the home team winning every game.
We don't think it will happen to the Yankees for the second time. Sabathia is effective in Game 7, and the Yankees will find a way to scratch out runs against Morton and the rest of the Houston pitching staff.



The Washington Nationals are reportedly set to seek permission to interview Houston Astros bench coach Alex Cora for their vacant managerial position once the team's ALCS matchup with the New York Yankees reaches its conclusion Saturday night. 
Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe reported the Nats, who offered Cora a player development job in the past, now want to speak to him about potentially replacing Dusty Baker.
Washington may be too late to land the coveted former MLB infielder, though.
On Thursday, Evan Drellich of NBC Sports Boston reported "industry sources" expect the Boston Red Sox to hire Cora to fill the void left by John Farrell's firing. It's a move that could happen following the ALCS with a potential press conference announcing his arrival before the World Series begins Tuesday night.
"Not a doubt it is him," a source told Drellich.
That said, the Nationals' job carries plenty of intrigue if Cora hasn't made a decision yet.
The Nats went 192-132 across Baker's two years in charge and won the NL East division crown both times. They failed to advance beyond the NLDS in either season, however, which led to the veteran manager's exit despite a .593 winning percentage.
While both organizations feature playoff-level rosters, Washington has the advantage of playing in the weak NL East, which it won by 20 games this season. Meanwhile, Boston has to navigate the tougher AL East, highlighted by the rival Yankees.
Cora told Jake Kaplan of the Houston Chronicle he took more pride in his success with the Astros than being discussed as a top managerial option.
"I'm happy that people mention my name, but at the same time I'm happy that people say that I'm a good bench coach for the Houston Astros," he said. "I think that's very important for me because that's what my goal was coming here, just try to be the best at what I do.
"For people to mention me in other conversations it's great, but I like when they talk about the Houston Astros and how good they are and how I helped some of the players or the team to win ballgames. That's the one that I really love."
His success in Houston came while working in the background as a bench coach. The pressure level will rise dramatically if he accepts an offer to become manager in Boston or Washington.



The New York Yankees and the Houston Astros have fought on even terms through six games, and it will take a seventh to decide the American League Championship.
The Astros were laboring after three consecutive losses in New York, and their high-powered offense had gone missing in action. That changed in Game 6, as the Astros erupted for a 7-1 victory at Minute Maid Park Friday night.
Houston will host Game 7 at 8 p.m. ET Saturday, and it will be televised by FS1.
Charlie Morton is expected to start the game for the Astros, while CC Sabathia will take the mound for New York.
Justin Verlander just isn't fair.  https://t.co/hieAmLBtwu
Justin Verlander recorded the win Friday night, as he pitched 7.0 innings of shutout baseball, giving up five hits, striking out eight and walking one batter.
Brian McCann broke up a scoreless game in the bottom of the fifth inning with an RBI double, and MVP candidate Jose Altuve added a two-run single in that inning.
Aaron Judge got the Yankees on the board in the top of the eighth with a home run, but the Astros removed all doubt with four runs in the bottom of that inning.
The winner of Game 7 will get an opportunity to play the National League champion Los Angeles Dodgers in the World Series.
The Dodgers took care of business in the NLCS by beating the Chicago Cubs in five games. Their pitching staff shut down the 2016 World Series champions with little trouble, as the Dodgers jumped out to a 3-0 lead before the Cubs avoided the sweep in Game 4.
While that victory brought some hope to Chicago, the Dodgers overpowered the Cubs in Game 5, recording an 11-1 victory in the decisive game.
Utility man Enrique Hernandez may not be used to the bright lights of stardom, but he made great use of his opportunity by hammering three home runs to back Clayton Kershaw's pitching.
What a time to be alive!!! #ThisTeam #WorldSeries #4More https://t.co/wspA4INO7K
Hernandez had seven RBI in the game, tying a playoff record set by Troy O'Leary of the Boston Red Sox in the 1999 American League Division Series. He belted a third-inning grand slam that put the game and the series firmly in the hands of the Wrigley Field visitors.
Kershaw has had his problems in the postseason throughout his career, and while he wasn't lights-out against the Cubs, he was solid as he pitched 6.0 innings, allowing three hits and one earned run while striking out five and walking one.
"To get to be on the mound tonight and get to be going to the World Series on the same night, it's a special thing," Kershaw said, per Stats AP (h/t CBSSports.com). "Who knows how many times I'm going to get to go to the World Series? I know more than anybody how hard it is to get there. So I'm definitely not taking this one for granted."
The Dodgers bullpen has been in a lockdown mode throughout the postseason.
In addition to that superb work by the bullpen, the Dodgers are getting timely hitting up and down the lineup.
Slugging third baseman Justin Turner has hit three home runs and driven in 12 runs in the postseason while hitting .387. Yasiel Puig has also had an excellent postseason, hitting .414 with a home run and six RBI. Rookie superstar Cody Bellinger and Chris Turner have both hit two home runs for the Dodgers, and those two also have four RBI each.
Kershaw, Yu Darvish and reliever Kenta Maeda take 2-0 records into the World Series, and ace closer Kenley Jansen has three saves.
Reliever Brandon Morrow has been sensational out of the bullpen, giving up three hits and one run in 8.1 innings of work. Morrow has struck out eight batters in the postseason and walked just one.
The Yankees made it to the seventh game in large part because of their power. Judge's home run Friday night was his team-leading fourth of the postseason, while teammates Gary Sanchez, Didi Gregorius and Greg Bird have three home runs each.
The Astros are led by Altuve, who had two hits Friday night and is hitting .405 during the postseason. Yuli Gurriel had a hit and scored a run Friday and is hitting .378, while Carlos Correa emerged from his funk in New York with two hits in Game 6. He is hitting .275 with three homers and nine RBI in the postseason.



After a brilliant performance from starting pitcher Justin Verlander on Friday, the Houston Astros forced Game 7 in their American League Championship Series against the New York Yankees.
The Los Angeles Dodgers, who won 104 games during the regular season, will host the winner on Tuesday night to kick off the 2017 World Series.
Here's a look at the World Series schedule as it stands, as well as a look at how the Dodgers match up with New York and Houston.
            
Schedule
Game 1: AL Pennant Winner at Los Angeles
Game 2: AL Pennant Winner at Los Angeles
Game 3: Los Angeles at AL Pennant Winner
Game 4: Los Angeles at AL Pennant Winner
*Game 5: Los Angeles at AL Pennant Winner
*Game 6: AL Pennant Winner at Los Angeles
*Game 7: AL Pennant Winner at Los Angeles
Fox will televise each game, all of which will begin at 8 p.m. ET. An asterisk indicates that the game will be played if necessary.
       
Houston vs. Los Angeles
On paper, this could be a large mismatch in the Dodgers' favor.
L.A.'s starting rotation and bullpen are perhaps deeper than those of any other team in baseball. The Astros have two superstars in Dallas Keuchel and Verlander, but they would have the disadvantage of pitching on the road, assuming they go Games 1 and 2 again, and after them, the Houston pitching staff has been inconsistent.
It's not a coincidence that the New York Yankees scored eight runs in the four games started by Keuchel and Verlander and 14 in two games against other pitchers.
The Dodgers have four starting pitchers with nasty arsenals. They have two bona fide top-of-the-rotation aces in Clayton Kershaw and Yu Darvish, an All-Star in Alex Wood and a fourth pitcher, Rich Hill, who won 12 games and threw nine perfect innings against the Pittsburgh Pirates in August.
In the bullpen, closer Kenley Jansen has shut the door 41 times this season and is a serious National League Cy Young candidate. Brandon Morrow has been lights-out, and other pitchers (e.g. Josh Fields) get the job done.
It's hard to keep the Houston Astro bats quiet forever, which the Yankees found out the hard way in a 7-1 defeat on Friday night.
Jose Altuve is one of the top two candidates for the American League MVP award, and he's complemented by All-Stars Carlos Correa and George Springer. It wouldn't be surprising to see any of them get hot in the World Series, even against the L.A. pitching staff.
That being said, the Dodgers simply have too big of an advantage when Keuchel or Verlander are off the mound. The good news for Houston is it could start four games combined in the series, so this could go deep, but look for L.A. to close this out at home.
Pick: Los Angeles in six.
        
New York vs. Los Angeles
This would be an interesting series, simply because the two clubs are mirror images of one another.
Both teams hit for a ton of power (the Yankees hit 241, while the Dodgers smacked 221). Both teams have one regular who can cause havoc on the basepaths (the Dodgers' Chris Taylor and the Yankees' Brett Gardner), but neither team's starting lineup is particularly fast or looks to steal a ton of bases. Both teams are big-market clubs with exciting rookies.
The pitching rotations are deep, and the bullpens are two of the best (if not the two best) in all of baseball. They can each call on some power bats off the bench to pinch-hit in key situations.
The Dodgers have a few clear edges, however.
First, they have home-field advantage. The Dodger Stadium crowd isn't known for providing a raucous atmosphere, but that could change when the World Series returns to L.A. for the first time in 29 years. Furthermore, the Dodgers get to play one fewer game in Yankee Stadium, where the Yankees have gone 57-30 (including the postseason).
Second, the Yankees have been sloppy defensively throughout the postseason. They committed three errors in Game 2 of the American League Division Series and also in Game 4 of the American League Championship Series. In particular, slugging catcher Gary Sanchez sometimes has trouble blocking balls in the dirt, and he's dropped a few others during key plays at the plate. 
Overall, New York just isn't crisp defensively, and that could end up costing the Yankees a game.
Home-field advantage and defense would be the keys in this series, which has the potential to meet its limit.
For this one, the pick is for the Dodgers to take their first World Series in 29 years.
Pick: Los Angeles in seven.



The New York Yankees and Houston Astros will do battle in Game 7 of the American League Championship Series on Saturday to decide who plays the Los Angeles Dodgers in this year's World Series.
The home team has held serve throughout the series, which will end in Houston's Minute Maid Park. Charlie Morton will get the nod for the Astros, while CC Sabathia gets the call for the Yankees.
Here's a look at the Game 7 schedule, alongside ticket information, odds and a quick pick.
         
Schedule
FS1 will televise the game live from Houston's Minute Maid Park, beginning at 8 p.m. ET, with play-by-play man Joe Buck and color commentator John Smoltz on the call. The pregame show will begin at 7 p.m. ET, also on FS1.
        
Ticket Information
Game 7 tickets are available through StubHub.
        
Odds
The Astros are -122 favorites (bet $122 to win $100), with the Yankees at +112 (bet $100 to win $112), according to OddsShark.
             
Preview
This pitching matchup is a rematch of Game 3, which the Yankees won 8-1 behind strong pitching from Sabathia and home runs from Todd Frazier and Aaron Judge.
Morton was knocked out early in that game, surrendering seven earned runs in 3.2 innings. It's odd, but Morton looked better than his stat line showed. He gave up Frazier's home run, which was a right-field poke that barely cleared the Yankee Stadium short porch. In most parks (maybe all of them), that hit is either an out or a double.
Otherwise, he induced soft contact and got a lot of swings and misses, but he was also on the wrong side of luck. It didn't help that Yankee Stadium channeled the old days and became the Bronx Zoo, as the fans were raucous all series.
Now Morton will be at home in front of his own rowdy fans at Minute Maid Park. Look for him to have a longer and better outing, but the fact of the matter is he doesn't match up particularly well with the Yankees bats.
Morton is a reverse-splits pitcher who does better against lefties (.561 OPS this season) than righties (.805). The Yankees have a ton of right-handed bats with pop, led by Judge and Gary Sanchez. But the New York righties can all go yard, and Frazier (and second baseman Starlin Castro) have each hit three dingers off Morton in their careers (including Frazier's playoff homer).
In the other dugout, Sabathia has been fantastic throughout the postseason save for a couple rocky innings in Cleveland. He's turned back the clock in the 2017 playoffs, striking out five in six shutout innings against Houston and punching out nine in 4.2 innings against the Indians in Game 5 of the American League Division Series. He does a good job disrupting a hitter's timing and is a master at inducing soft contact.
After the starters, the Yankees have the edge in the bullpen, although setup man David Robertson looked shaky in giving up four runs to the 'stros in the eighth inning during Game 6. That being said, the Yanks bullpen was third in ERA this season, while Houston's finished a below-average 17th out of 30 MLB clubs.
The difference here, though, is this is Game 7, and Jake Kaplan of the Houston Chronicle noted how that may change Houston's pitching strategy:
Dallas Keuchel and Lance McCullers will both be available in relief for the Astros tomorrow. All hands on deck, except* probably Verlander.
Therefore, the Astros bullpen may not even get a chance. If Houston gets an early lead, we could see a bridge from Morton to starter Lance McCullers to starter Dallas Keuchel.
The key will be the early innings, and the guess here is the team that jumps out to a lead before the starters leave will end up keeping it.
An excellent series should finish with a classic game. In this one, it's a toss-up, but the pick here is the Yankees by a 5-4 score thanks to some key hits from Frazier.



Just when they needed them to, the Houston Astros' stars aligned and saved their season.
Due to the seven shutout innings he hurled, Justin Verlander will get the lion's share of the credit for Houston's win over the New York Yankees on Friday at Minute Maid Park, which evened the American League Championship Series at three games apiece. George Springer will also get plenty of love for the stupendous catch he made in the seventh inning.
But the biggest story is right there in plain sight when looking at the 7-1 final of Game 6: The Astros offense is back just in time for Saturday's Game 7.
Those seven runs are only two fewer than they had scored through the first five games of the series. And a good chunk of them came from a likely source.
Jose Altuve, who's fresh off his third batting title and possibly on his way to his first AL MVP, provided a long-anticipated big hit with a two-run single in the fifth inning and a dagger with a solo home run in the eighth inning. 
.@JoseAltuve27 wasn’t letting his season end tonight. #ALCS https://t.co/denmu6eUDn
Just like that, the All-Star second baseman upped his RBI count for the series from zero to three. He also collected his first hits since going 5-for-8 in Games 1 and 2.
Of course, Altuve didn't do it all by himself in Game 6.
Carlos Correa also had a pair of hits, one of which was a scorching 107.2 mile-per-hour double in the eighth inning. Brian McCann had two hits of his own. Alex Bregman only had one, but it was a clutch two-run double.
Short version: It was a team effort mainly headlined by the Astros' young, homegrown stars. Or, pretty much what everyone came to expect from their offense up until the ALCS.

Pick an offensive category, any offensive category, and chances are the Astros led Major League Baseball in it this season. To name just a few, they led in runs, hits, batting average, on-base percentage, slugging percentage and OPS.
If that's not enough to drive home the point that theirs was no ordinary offense, consider a stat called "Weighted Runs Created Plus." It captures total offensive value in relation to league average (100), and it puts the 2017 Astros behind only three Babe Ruth-era Yankees offenses as the greatest ever:
The Astros looked the part of an all-time great offensive team in dispatching the Boston Red Sox in the American League Division Series, posting a .974 OPS and hitting eight homers. It seemed like a short jump from there to the franchise's second World Series appearance.
But then, the first five games of the ALCS played like the "All Good Things Must Come to an End" phrase of Houston's 2017 offense.
The Astros scored just two runs in each of the first two games and five total in three games at Yankee Stadium. In all, they went into Game 6 with a .447 OPS for the series.
"We've lost a little bit of our offensive adjustments and a little of our offensive mojo," Astros manager A.J. Hinch said, according to David Adler of MLB.com. "It's rare, because of how much offense we put up through the first six months of the season and even in the Division Series. We've swung the bats very well, and I believe we're one good game from coming out of it."
The easiest and, per the eye test, most valid explanation was that Houston's superior hitting had simply run into more superior pitching. Masahiro Tanaka, Luis Severino, CC Sabathia and Sonny Gray took turns baffling Astros hitters to start games. Then New York's star-studded bullpen finished them off.
But it was also evident that there was bad luck at play.
As Adler pointed out, the Astros had little to show for the balls they'd hit well through the first five games of the ALCS. That changed in Game 6. At least as measured by exit velocity, all seven of their hardest-hit balls found paydirt.
Houston's hitters also found an equilibrium between patience and aggression that they'd been sorely lacking at Yankee Stadium. A good example was when they chased Severino in the fifth inning, forcing him to throw 26 pitches as they worked him for three walks and two hits.
An added benefit of getting Severino out early was pushing Yankees skipper Joe Girardi to use some of his best relievers. Chad Green, David Robertson and Dellin Betances will be on zero days' rest for Game 7.
The Astros still face a tough assignment in a second go-round against Sabathia, whose contact management talents won the day in Game 3. And while Green's availability will be limited after he threw 38 pitches Friday, there won't be leashes on Robertson, Betances, Tommy Kahnle or Aroldis Chapman.
If it comes to it, the Astros don't have much hope of winning a low-scoring game. They're putting their faith in Charlie Morton, who got rocked in Game 3, and a bullpen that's been a leaky ship all postseason.
But after Game 6, it sure seems a lot less likely to come to that than it did before.
This Astros team is made to hit, and did indeed do more hitting through Games 1 and 5 than their results let on. Their outburst in Game 6 is less of a blip in the Yankees' dominance of the scoreboard and more a case of the Astros snapping out of an uncharacteristic funk.
One more game just like it, and a date with the Los Angeles Dodgers in the World Series awaits.
Data courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Baseball Savant. 




The 2017 American League Championship Series will go the distance after Justin Verlander and the Houston Astros shut down the New York Yankees to capture a 7-1 win in Game 6 on Friday night at Minute Maid Field. 
While it wasn't quite a redux of his masterful nine-inning performance in Game 2, Verlander was brilliant with the Astros facing elimination. 
Over the course of seven scoreless innings, Verlander scattered five hits and registered eight strikeouts to baffle a group of Yankee hitters that had hit its stride back in the Bronx. 
Verlander threw 71 percent of his pitches for strikes, including a curveball to Todd Frazier that encapsulated the Yankees' struggles against the 2011 AL MVP: 
Just pure filth. #ALCS https://t.co/RRGbiomCeA
The Astros offense wasn't nearly as electric—its first hit of the night came with two out in the bottom of the fourth inning—but a jolt in the fifth inning produced a breakthrough against Luis Severino (4.2 IP, three strikeouts, three earned runs). 
Brian McCann got the party started with a double to deep right field to score Alex Bregman, and Jose Altuve snapped an 0-for-12 slump three batters later when he laced a two-run single to left, as Fox Sports MLB documented: 
JOSE ALTUVE DELIVERS!

The @astros take the 3-0 lead in the 5th.  https://t.co/xT0dWHQD7Z
The Yankees threatened with two on and no out in the top of the seventh for their best opportunity of the night, but the opportunity proved fleeting. 
After Verlander got Aaron Hicks to strike out swinging, Todd Frazier smoked a fastball to deep center field that George Springer plucked out of the air: 
SUPER SPRINGER! WHAT A CATCH!  https://t.co/QXtKBIPF7j
According to MLB.com's Andrew Simon, Statcast suggested Frazier hit his blast hard enough to leave most parks: 
Based on exit velo and launch angle, the ball that Frazier hit is a HR 72% of the time, per @statcast. https://t.co/RHTUySUkwc
Verlander worked out of the jam one batter later, at which point MLB Network's Jon Morosi relayed a key stat that underscored his dominance: 
This is Justin Verlander’s 10th postseason start of 7+ IP since 2010 — the most in @MLB over that span. @MLBNetwork @astros
The Yankees got on the board in the eighth when Aaron Judge mashed a solo home run off Brad Peacock, but Altuve countered with a jack of his own in the bottom half of the inning to restore order and fuel a hit parade that allowed the Astros to quell concerns of an implosion once and for all. 
Now headed for Game 7, the Astros will try to complete their comeback Saturday evening (8:08 p.m. ET, FS1) in Houston against Yankees starter CC Sabathia—who went six strong with five strikeouts in an 8-1 Game 3 win.      
The Astros, meanwhile, will roll with Game 3 starter Charlie Morton on normal rest as opposed to rushing Lance McCullers back out. 



The 2017 World Series begins Tuesday, though we still don't know the matchup that will determine Major League Baseball's champion. 
The Los Angeles Dodgers earned their spot in the World Series Thursday night with a dominant 11-1 victory over the Chicago Cubs in Game 5 of the National League Championship Series. 
Los Angeles' opponent could be known as soon as Friday if the New York Yankees defeat the Houston Astros in Game 6 of the American League Championship Series. 
Despite not knowing the official matchup for this year's World Series, there are some things to be taken away from the postseason so far that will help build anticipation for what's going to happen. 
         
2017 World Series Schedule
Game 1 (Oct. 24): New York Yankees/Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Game 2 (Oct. 25): New York Yankees/Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Game 3 (Oct. 27): Los Angeles Dodgers at New York Yankees/Houston Astros
Game 4 (Oct. 28): Los Angeles Dodgers at New York Yankees/Houston Astros
Game 5* (Oct. 29): Los Angeles Dodgers at New York Yankees/Houston Astros
Game 6* (Oct. 31): New York Yankees/Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
Game 7* (Nov. 1): New York Yankees/Houston Astros at Los Angeles Dodgers
*if necessary
         
Ticket Information: Stubhub.com
        
World Series Odds (via OddsShark.com)
Los Angeles Dodgers (-110)
New York Yankees (+190)
Houston Astros (+500)
The Dodgers clinched their first trip to the Fall Classic since 1988 by defeating the defending World Series champion Chicago Cubs in five games to win the NLCS. 
GRAND. SLAM. 

How you feelin' @Dodgers' fans? https://t.co/Y1YJZWfOEC
This franchise has been on the cusp of breaking through over the past five seasons, reaching the NLCS in 2013 and 2016. Los Angeles has won five consecutive division titles, the longest active streak in MLB, and posted the league's best record in 2017 (104-58). 
The NL West champions had a chance to sweep their way into the World Series Wednesday against the Cubs, but Jake Arrieta and Wade Davis held Los Angeles' bats in check by allowing four hits in a 3-2 Game 4 win. 
Despite Chicago's win, the Dodgers were still in complete control of the series, as noted by Bill Plaschke of the Los Angeles Times. 
"The Cubs still just had five hits, scoring all their runs on home runs," he wrote after Game 4. "They are still just batting .163 in this series. They still don't have a bullpen, because they used closer Wade Davis for 48 pitches to save their season."
Since Game 3 of the Division Series against the Arizona Diamondbacks, pitching has been the story of Los Angeles' playoff run. Over the past six games, the Dodgers allowed nine runs in six games. 
Pitching is what made the Dodgers the best team in baseball during the regular season. They led the NL with a 3.38 ERA, including an MLB-best 3.39 ERA from their starting rotation. 
Los Angeles' offense finished 12th in MLB with 770 runs scored and 11th with 221 home runs. This isn't a lineup that is going to overpower opposing pitchers, so their rotation and bullpen have to be on point to end their 29-year championship drought. 
One thing working in their favor is whoever their AL opponent ends up being, the Houston Astros or the New York Yankees will have to play the first two games in Los Angeles. 
The Yankees hold a 3-2 series edge against the Astros heading into Friday's Game 6 at Minute Maid Park. Road games have not been kind to New York this postseason, which owns a 1-4 record away from Yankee Stadium in Houston and Cleveland. 
At home, the Yankees were an AL-best 51-30 during the season and 6-0 in the playoffs. They went 40-41 away from New York during the regular season, but the problems extend beyond just their record. 
"Aaron Judge, who struck out an unfathomable 16 times in 20 at-bats against Cleveland, was a quiet 1-for-7 in the games at Houston," wrote Jorge L. Ortiz of USA Today. "Gary Sanchez went 0-for-11 in the first three games of the ALCS. Greg Bird was the only one to fare well in Houston, with a home run among his two hits in seven at-bats."
Judge, Sanchez and Bird have looked more comfortable at home than on the road this postseason. It doesn't help they have to face Justin Verlander Saturday in Game 6 after he pitched a complete game against the Yankees with 13 strikeouts.
Between starting pitching, bullpen and offense, the Yankees look like the most complete team left in the playoffs. They will need those three to start hitting away from New York if they want to add a 28th championship to their mantle. 
The Dodgers are the best team left at preventing runs. They are going to throw Clayton Kershaw, Yu Darvish and Rich Hill at whoever their AL opponent is, with Kershaw and Darvish likely being used multiple times. 
It's rare when the best team in baseball during the regular season wins the World Series. It happened last year with the Cubs, but before that, the last team with the best record outright to be crowned champion was the 2009 Yankees. 
The Dodgers will follow Chicago's example from 2016 to win their first championship since Kirk Gibson hobbled around the bases after hitting a walk-off homer against Oakland Athletics closer Dennis Eckersley 29 years ago. 



Washington Nationals second baseman Daniel Murphy underwent surgery on his right knee Friday to "repair damage to the articular cartilage."
Mark Zuckerman of MASN noted the Nats' announcement confirmed it was a debridement and microfracture procedure. He's expected to rehab "throughout the offseason."
Murphy parlayed his memorable 2015 playoff run with the New York Mets into a monster debut year with the Nats. He set new career highs in batting average (.347), home runs (25) and runs batted in (104) and earned his second All-Star Game selection in 2016.
He remained a vital cog throughout 2017 with a .322/.384/.543 slash line and 23 homers.
The 32-year-old infielder has stayed mostly durable in recent years. He's played at least 130 games in every season dating back to 2012. He did spend some time out of the lineup late in the 2016 season because of a strained left buttocks, though. More recently, he was sidelined with neck and hamstring issues.
Looking ahead, it's unclear at this stage whether the Nationals expect Murphy back at full strength in time for 2018 Spring Training. He's suddenly become one of the most impactful players in baseball and the team can't expect more than replacement-level numbers at the position if he ends up missing time next year.


On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
The Red Sox were lucky to land talented MLB stud Xander Bogaerts, but it was a close call. Find out how Boston almost missed out on the All-Star shortstop. 
             
Bleacher Report is your No. 1 stop for what’s trending in sports. You can count on B/R for all the hottest stories. From wild sports to the next big thing, don't miss out.
Download the free Bleacher Report app to catch all the moments that matter in one place. Get the app to get the game.



There will be no day off for baseball fans Friday as the Houston Astros host the New York Yankees in Game 6 of the 2017 American League Championship Series.
Houston took an early 2-0 series lead but New York responded with three straight wins at home to get one game away from its 41st American League pennant. If the Yankees win, it will be the second straight series from which they've advanced after dropping the first two games.
Houston and New York will be fighting for the right to face off with the Los Angeles Dodgers, who claimed the National League pennant with their 11-1 win over the Chicago Cubs on Thursday night.
                    
ALCS Schedule
Game 6: Friday, Oct. 20, at 8:08 p.m. ET, FS1
Game 7 (if necessary): Saturday, Oct. 21, at 8:08 p.m. ET, FS1
                     
Ticket Info
Tickets for Games 6 and 7 are available on StubHub.
                    
Odds Guide (via OddsShark)
Game 6 Odds: Astros -140, Yankees +120
World Series Odds: Dodgers -110, Yankees +190, Astros +500
                     
ALCS Prediction
Justin Verlander was masterful in his last start, allowing one earned run over nine innings in the Astros' 2-1 Game 2 victory over the Yankees. Houston may need a similar performance if it's going to stay alive in the ALCS.
Offense wasn't a problem for the Astros in the ALDS. They scored eight runs in each of their first two wins and then put up five runs—including two on Chris Sale—in their series-clinching Game 5 victory.
In the ALCS, however, Houston has crossed the plate a combined nine times.
Can you find the Astros offense? 

(Yes, we hid an Astros logo in there) https://t.co/elknJ32MXt
Jose Altuve is 5-for-18 in the ALCS but hasn't registered an extra-base hit. Marwin Gonzalez is 2-for-15 without a single RBI after leading the team in the category (90 RBI) during the regular season. George Springer is only 2-for-18, and the trio of Brian McCann, Josh Reddick and Carlos Beltran have one hit in 39 at-bats.
"The playoffs, as we talked earlier today about advanced scouting and exposing weaknesses, if they get you to crack a little bit outside of your game plan then they've got you," Astros manager A.J. Hinch said after the team's Game 5 loss, per MLB.com. "We haven't stayed in our game plan quite well enough to make adjustments."
Getting to Luis Severino early will be vital for Houston.
Game 5 was essentially New York's best-case scenario. Not only did the Yankees win, but Masahiro Tanaka also went seven innings, thus saving the team's bullpen for Game 6. Tommy Kahnle was the only reliever New York used as he pitched the final two innings.
That means Chad Green, David Robertson, Dellin Betances and Aroldis Chapman should all be rested and ready to go Friday night. Even taking Betances out of the equation after his underwhelming postseason so far, Green, Robertson and Chapman could pitch the final four or five innings of Game 6.
Severino had an ignominious postseason debut, allowing three earned runs in a third of an inning in the American League Wild Card Game. ESPN.com's Buster Olney noted that Yankees starters—Severino included—have been largely excellent since then:
Yankees' rotation in the 10 games since Luis Severino lasted 1/3 of an inning in the WC game: A 2.33 ERA.
Returning home could be what the Astros need to reinvigorate their offense, and Houston is helped by the fact New York finished a game under .500 (40-41) away from Yankee Stadium.
Game 6 could go either way. Houston's bats have to wake up sooner or later, and the Astros will feel confident with Verlander on the mound. But the same was said of the Cleveland Indians heading into Game 5 of the ALDS, and they exited the playoffs following their 5-2 defeat to New York.
The Astros will experience a similar fate as Severino is just good enough to hand over an early lead to the Yankees bullpen, which seals the deal on a Game 6 win and sends the team to the World Series.
Prediction: Yankees win series 4-2



The end is in sight, and the 10 teams that started the MLB postseason will soon be whittled down to two.
The Dodgers earned the National League title Thursday night and whipped the reigning World Series champion Chicago Cubs in five games, and the Yankees will be able to meet their ancient rivals in the World Series if they can close out the Houston Astros Friday or Saturday.
The Dodgers have had one of the most memorable seasons in recent memory. For three-quarters of the campaign, they were on a pace that could have seen them win 110 games or more. They were the best team in the National League by a wide margin, but then they hit a bit of a hiccup in late August.
Well, a big hiccup. This magnificent team lost 16 of 17 games in a span that bridged August and September, and the Dodgers were falling to earth like a skydiver whose parachute failed to open. The streak ended during the last 10 games of the season—8-2 over that span—but Los Angeles limped into the playoffs.
Their division series against the Arizona Diamondbacks looked like a major problem. The Diamondbacks had swept the Dodgers twice during that losing spell, and the combination of Paul Goldschmidt and J.D. Martinez looked ready to torch Dodger pitching.
But the magic that had shown up during the early part of the regular season returned. The Dodgers swept the Snakes out of the playoffs and needed just one above the minimum to get rid of Chicago. They closed out the Cubs with a convincing 11-1 victory as Enrique Hernandez belted three home runs.
Now they wait for the Yankees and the Astros to finish their battle on the American League side of the equation. 
The Yankees are supremely confident, coming from an 0-2 deficit to take a 3-2 lead in the series by sweeping three games at Yankee Stadium. This comes on the heels of ousting the Cleveland Indians in the AL Division Series, rallying from 0-2 to win the five-game series.
The Yankees' bats are getting the job done, as they outscored the Astros 19-5 in the three games at Yankee Stadium. 
#AllRise: Aaron Judge hits a MONSTER home run to get the Yankees on the board. https://t.co/xrGy3EZnsH
Rookie slugger Aaron Judge belted two homers and two doubles in the three games at Yankee Stadium. "I'm just trying to get productive hits with runners on base," Judge said, per Rhett Bollinger of MLB.com. "That's the biggest thing this postseason. It doesn't matter how you do it as long as you're scoring runs."
It has been something of a reversal of fortune because the Yankees were not hitting in the two games in Houston, both 2-1 Astros victories. The Astros were hitting the ball extremely well in the ALDS against the Red Sox, but once they dusted off Boston in four games, the Astros' bats have cooled down considerably. 
While the Yankees have to face Justin Verlander in Game 6, we think they will ultimately prevail—in six or seven games—and win the American League pennant. They will meet the Dodgers (Brooklyn years included) for the 12th time in World Series history, and the Yankees hold an 8-3 edge.
Here's the schedule for the potential New York-Los Angeles World Series, per MLB.com:
Tuesday, October 24Game 1, New York at Los Angeles, Time TBD, Fox
Wednesday, October 25Game 2, New York at Los Angeles, Time TBD, Fox
Friday, October 27Game 3, Los Angeles at New York, Time TBD, Fox
Saturday, October 28Game 4, Los Angeles at New York, Time TBD, Fox
Sunday, October 29Game 5, Los Angeles at New York, Time TBD, Fox, if necessary
Tuesday, October 31Game 6, New York at Los Angeles, Time TBD, Fox, if necessary
Wednesday, November 1Game 7, New York at Los Angeles, Time TBD, Fox, if necessary
Joe Girardi is the happiest guy on Earth right now https://t.co/8sPePQAHnC
        
Prediction
The Dodgers have been the best team in baseball for the majority of the year, although many observers thought the Cleveland Indians were better by the end of the season.
The Yankees have already beaten the Indians, and if our vision holds up, they will have taken down the Astros by winning the final four games of that series or four of the final five games.
That's what championship teams do. They look their opponent right in the eye, take their best shot, and come back harder.
We see this series as similar to the ones that the Yankees have already played. The Dodgers are likely to strike the early blows by winning the first two games at home, but the Yankees will come back to the Bronx and take charge.
The Yankees may not be the better team, but we see them as more resilient, and the Yankees will win in seven games and celebrate in Los Angeles.
In the event that the Astros win the last two games of the AL Championship Series and get to the World Series, Houston will also be successful in a six-game World Series.
American League teams are simply better and face tougher competition on a year in, year out basis. The American League has had the edge in the last 13 years of interleague competition, and that will be proved again in the World Series.



The Washington Nationals announced Friday manager Dusty Baker won't return for the 2018 MLB season.
Dan Kolko of the MLB Network passed along the news of Baker's exit after two years with the Nats. Mark Zuckerman of MASN provided a statement from the club:
Here's the statement from the Nationals on Dusty Baker and his coaching staff... https://t.co/pR29C34TwZ
"Winning a lot of regular season games and the division is not enough," Nationals general manager Mike Rizzo told reporters. 
"I'm surprised and disappointed," Baker said, per USA Today."They told me they would get back to me and I told them I was leaving town yesterday and they waited 10 days to tell me.
The Nationals posted a 192-132 record over the last two seasons and captured the National League East division title both times. They failed to advance beyond the NLDS on either occasion, however, getting eliminated by the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2016 and the Chicago Cubs this year.
Washington held a 4-1 lead early in its decisive Game 5 matchup with the Cubs last week before Chicago stormed back for a 9-8 victory.
"It really hurts, you know, to lose like that," Baker told reporters after the elimination. "Especially after what we went through all year long, and that was tough."
He added: "It's very disappointing. Not to be going to L.A., not to go home see my family, and play in Dodger Stadium, and go to the next step. You know, it was just a tough game to lose."
Although Baker's .593 winning percentage with the Nats is the best of his four managerial stops—he previously led the Cubs, San Francisco Giants and Cincinnati Reds—the organization's current mindset is World Series or bust since a playoff berth is a virtual certainty in the weak NL East.
Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports noted sources said the California native wanted "another crack" to lead the Nationals to a championship in 2018.
Alas, the front office decided to move on from the 68-year-old former All-Star outfielder despite winning at least 95 games in each of his two years in charge.
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron



Fact: Enrique Hernandez became the first Dodgers player to hit 3 home runs in a postseason game.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: @jonmorosi



For the first time since 1988, the Los Angeles Dodgers are going to the World Series.
After dismantling the Chicago Cubs in Game 5 Thursday night at Wrigley Field, 11-1, the Dodgers will have to wait until the conclusion of the ALCS between the Houston Astros and New York Yankees to determine their opponent.
But even though the World Series isn't officially set, with the Yankees holding a 3-2 series lead heading into Friday's crucial Game 6, the game schedule of the 2017 World Series is already mapped out, with the exception of what time each game will start.
Here's a rundown of the basic information regarding the World Series:
        
2017 World Series Schedule
Game 1: Tuesday, Oct. 24
Game 2: Wednesday, Oct. 25
Game 3: Friday, Oct. 27
Game 4: Saturday, Oct. 28
Game 5*: Sunday, Oct. 29
Game 6*: Tuesday, Oct. 31
Game 7*: Wednesday, Nov. 1
*If necessary
Note: Schedule information is per MLB.com. All games will be televised on Fox, with the start times to be determined.
        
Time to celebrate...for now

The Dodgers beat the Cubs on Thursday to clinch their first National League pennant in 29 years, so it's understandable that the team and its fanbase are living in the moment for the next day or two to let the weight of the occasion sink in.
However, the Dodgers know that they still need four more wins if they really want to throw the biggest party Los Angeles has seen in quite some time. 
Dodgers fans celebrating in East L.A. after team clinches first trip to World Series since 1988 https://t.co/vzFsA4ElOF (pic @Sky5Tim) https://t.co/YRWCzBkV7n
The World Series starts on Tuesday, Oct. 24, with the first two games at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles. That part we know. We also know that the Dodgers have some history with the Yankees.
The Dodgers have played the Yankees a total of 11 times in the World Series, last meeting in 1981. For the most part, New York has had its way with the Dodgers under the spotlight, winning eight of the 11 matchups compared to the Dodgers' three titles.
For the casual fan, and for those interested in TV ratings, Dodgers vs. Yankees appears to be the series most people want. But that doesn't necessarily mean that it's the series fans are going to get.
With the Yankees rallying back from 0-2 against the Astros, a win Friday afternoon will seal the AL pennant for New York. But the Astros still have some life and will look to make it back to the World Series for the first time since 2005. 



Justin Verlander has been brilliant since coming to the Houston Astros, and he is going to have to be at his best when he takes the mound Friday night at Minute Maid Park if his team is going to stay alive in the American League Championship Series.
After taking a 2-0 lead in the first two games of the series at home, the Astros were blitzed in three straight games by the New York Yankees, and they are on the verge of getting knocked out of the playoffs by the wild-card team.
However, if Verlander can get the best of New York starter Luis Severino, the Astros will force a winner-take-all seventh game Saturday night at Minute Maid Park. 
Game 6 is scheduled for 8:08 p.m. ET and will be televised by FS1. The Astros are minus-134 favorites and the Yankees are 124 underdogs, according to OddsShark.
PURE DOMINATION by Justin Verlander. What a performance.

9IP 5H 1ER 1BB 13K, 124 pitches https://t.co/RA18zgwmeu
Verlander has impressive credentials. He struck out 13 and walked just one in the Astros' 2-1 victory over the Yankees in Game 2 of the series.
However, the Yankees rediscovered their offense in the three games in New York as sluggers Aaron Judge, Gary Sanchez and Greg Bird all dented the Houston pitching staff. 
Judge got his power stroke going in Game 3 when he belted a three-run homer in New York's 8-1 victory. The 6'7" slugger homered and doubled in Game 4, and Sanchez drove in three runs in the Yankees 6-4 comeback victory in Game 4, and Bird drove in the first run in the 5-0 shutout win over Dallas Keuchel in Game 5. Judge hit another double in that game, while Sanchez had two hits, including a home run.
.@Yankees fly out to an early lead. Greg Bird slices an RBI knock to make it 1-0.

#ALCS Game 5, on @FS1. https://t.co/e076OF1gNX
Judge credited Bird with getting the big hit in Game 5, because the first run was so critical against Houston's ace. 
"That's the biggest thing, getting that first run. With someone like that, you have to get him early when you can. If he gets in a groove like he usually does, he's unhittable," Judge said of Keuchel, per Peter Botte of the New York Daily News. "But that's Greg Bird, that's what I expect out of him, that's what he's shown me through the minor leagues, through the short time he's been up here, that's Greg Bird, man. He's a fantastic hitter, probably our best hitter, and he's proving it right now in the postseason."
While the Yankees unleashed their attack at home, the Houston bats have gone cold. After dominating against the Boston Red Sox in the division series, the Astros have scored two runs or less in four of the five games. They scored four runs in building a 4-0 lead in Game 4, but the New York comeback left them shattered.
Yankee Stadium may be a hitter's paradise, but the Astros went 11-for-92 in the Bronx and were just 2-for-21 with runners in scoring position. The Astros did not hit a home run, and the slumping hitters included MVP candidate Jose Altuve, Carlos Correa, George Springer and Alex Bregman.
Those hitters are going to have to solve Severino. They can't just expect Verlander to shut down the Yankees once again, as the hitters must carry their part of the burden as well.
                    
Prediction
The Yankees have roared back to win three games in a row, and it seems like they have all the momentum. They have regained their stride and the Astros are reeling.
There's one issue for the Yankees, however. That's the presence of Verlander on the mound. He has been on fire since coming to the Astros, going 5-0 with a 1.06 earned-run average during the regular season, and 3-0 in the playoffs with a 2.04 ERA.
The combination of Verlander's pitching with the Astros returning home will be enough for Houston to earn a narrow 4-2 victory and force a seventh game.



The Los Angeles Dodgers are in the World Series after defeating the Chicago Cubs in five games. The question is who will join them from the American League.
While the New York Yankees have a 3-2 advantage heading into Game 6, the Houston Astros aren't going away after winning 101 games during the regular season. Even after losing three in a row, the return to Minute Maid Park could shift momentum back toward the Astros for the final two games of the series.
The Dodgers were able to close out their series on the road with an 11-1 victory Thursday night, reaching the World Series for the first time since 1988. It's been eight years since the last Yankees pennant, but they will try to follow suit with one more victory.
                 
American League Championship Series

Game 6: Oct. 20 at 8:08 p.m. ET; Fox Sports 1
Game 7: Oct. 21 at 8:08 p.m. ET; Fox Sports 1
Live stream available at FoxSportsGo.com.
           
It's pretty amazing the Yankees can be one win away from the World Series after being left for dead so many times this postseason.
They fell behind in the wild-card game against the Twins, they went down 0-2 in the NLDS against the Indians and then fell behind 0-2 again this series. Each time, they have responded with some of the best baseball they have played all year.
Buster Olney of ESPN noted how well the starting rotation has performed over the past two series:
Yankees' rotation in the 10 games since Luis Severino lasted 1/3 of an inning in the WC game: A 2.33 ERA.
The offense has also stepped up its performance, as A.J. Herrmann of YES showed:
#Yankees MLB postseason ranks (offense):

11 G (1st)
50 R (1st)
79 H (1st)
17 2B (1st)
15 HR (1st)
47 RBI (1st)
33 XBH (1st)
Aaron Judge, Didi Gregorius and Gary Sanchez have created a feared trio in the middle of the Yankees order. Adding in a trustworthy back of the bullpen and plenty of momentum, and this is a tough team to beat.
With that said, the series now shifts back to Houston where the Astros are 4-0 this postseason. The Yankees are 1-4 on the road and were the only playoff team to have a losing record away from home this season.
Veteran Carlos Beltran has taken it upon himself to remind his teammates that they only need two wins to take the series.
"I just don't want people to feel down," the 40-year-old said, per Pedro Maura of the Los Angeles Times. "If you get caught up in the hype and the crowd, it could get into your head. We have a lot of young guys in here who are in their first or second time in the playoffs, and they can get caught up in that."
New York will also have to try to solve Justin Verlander in Game 6, who is coming off a complete game in his last outing with 13 strikeouts and just one run allowed. He has a 2.04 ERA in three appearances this postseason, including one out of the bullpen in Game 5 of the ALDS.
Although the Yankees still have Luis Severino and C.C. Sabathia ready to go in the next two games, nothing is guaranteed as the series comes to a close.



The New York Yankees will try to advance to the World Series for the first time since 2009 when they go for their fourth straight win over the Houston Astros on Friday in Game 6 of the American League Championship Series as small road underdogs. New York has rallied from an 0-2 deficit for the second consecutive playoff series but has lost four games in a row at Houston.
                    
Betting line: The Astros opened as -125 favorites (wager $125 to win $100); the total is at 7.5 runs, according to sportsbooks monitored by OddsShark. Line updates and matchup report.
MLB betting pick, via OddsShark computer: 3.9-1.5, Yankees (MLB picks on every game)
                        
Why the Yankees can pay on the MLB lines
The Yankees again have no pressure on them as the underdogs throughout the ALCS, and they could have ended this series already had they been able to win one of the first two games that both resulted in identical 2-1 losses. The fact that each of those matchups was close has to be a confidence booster for a New York team that found its offense back at home in outscoring its opponent by a 19-5 margin in sweeping three games.
The Yankees will now send their best pitcher to the mound in Luis Severino, who has performed progressively better since a rough outing in the AL Wild Card Game. Last time out, Severino allowed one run and two hits in four innings of Game 2 on Saturday, with closer Aroldis Chapman taking the loss in the ninth.
                      
Why the Astros can pay on the MLB lines
The Astros will be banking on Justin Verlander to extend the ALCS with another brilliant performance after he earned a complete-game victory opposite New York's Severino in Game 2. Verlander gave up one run and five hits with one walk and 13 strikeouts, as the 34-year-old veteran turned back the clock and looked like he did as a Cy Young Award winner with the Detroit Tigers in 2011.
Houston also only endured losing streaks of four games or more twice during the regular season, so the odds are definitely against that scenario happening again here.
                     
Smart betting pick
The Astros had Game 4 won at Yankee Stadium before surrendering four runs in the bottom of the eighth inning in a 6-4 loss. They may not be able to recover from that, especially because they are counting on Verlander to come through in the biggest spot of the season. Their bullpen has been a major disappointment and could be their downfall.
Meanwhile, the Yankees have a ton of confidence, so look for them to play loose en route to another series-clinching road victory and a return to the World Series.
                 
MLB betting trends
New York is 6-2 in its last eight games.
The total has gone over in seven of New York's last 10 games against Houston.
The total has gone under in four of Houston's last six games.
                  
All MLB odds and betting trends courtesy of Bleacher Report's official odds partner, OddsShark. All quotes gathered firsthand unless otherwise noted. Check out Twitter for injury and line-movement updates and the OddsShark YouTube page for picks and analysis, or download the free odds tracker app.



As long as an MLB team is willing and able to pay, MLB free agents have earned the right to sign wherever they choose. Nobody can tell them otherwise.
Factors beyond baseball will play into their decisions. Maybe someone prefers to live by the beach in a warm climate. Perhaps the free agent is reticent to abandon a flourishing community program or pull his kids from a good school.
These items are for the player and his family to discuss. The on-field elements, however, are fair game.
Fans typically prefer playing general manager and pinpointing players teams should avoid signing. Let's flip the script and identify a team each of the top-10 free agents—judged based on recent performance and expected earning potential without considering players who can decline a player option—should eschew.
Money plays into the formula, but a team must be a realistic landing spot to qualify. While Yu Darvish should not sign with the Oakland Athletics since they will not offer fair market value, that's too obvious for this exercise.
And just to keep things fresh, no organization could be targeted more than once. The San Francisco Giants otherwise could have taken the dubious honor for multiple highlighted hitters.
Most choices are fueled by a destination stifling individual success and/or not having the surrounding roster to lead the free agent to a championship. These are not predictions of what will not happen, but rather assessments of what should not occur.

After going 66-96, the Philadelphia Phillies seemingly break the rule of only considering feasible targets. 
Not so fast. Having eradicated any expensive contracts from their payroll, they enter the offseason with MLB's most spending leverage. A team that opened 2014 with a payroll over $177 million only has Odubel Herrera's $3.35 million on the ledger before arbitration.
Rookie Rhys Hoskins led them to a 37-38 record after the All-Star break, but pitching remains an area of need. Perhaps they can persuade Arrieta to leave the Chicago Cubs and form a new National League powerhouse from the ground up. 
It would feel reminiscent of Jon Lester joining the Cubs after 2014's 73-win campaign. That move has worked well for both sides.
So where's the downside for Arrieta? According to ESPN.com's MLB Park Factors, Citizens Bank Park was conducive to MLB's highest home run rate in 2017. The 31-year-old just surrendered a career-high 23 home runs with his highest fly-ball percentage (34.4) since 2011.
He would also leave a Cubs defense that compiled 30 Defensive Runs Saved (DRS) for inexperienced Phillies fielders that cost the team 41 runs. Rookie J.P. Crawford can help, but not as much if they plan to keep him at third base rather than shortstop.
Arrieta would not immediately make the Phillies a title contender, and a veteran ace's best days often end abruptly. His velocity has dipped in each of the past two seasons. Moving to a hitter's park with a downgraded defense may cause even steeper regression than this season's 3.53 ERA.
While these same arguments could be used for the Phillies passing, they also apply for Arrieta finding a favorable spot for a contender. That is, unless Philadelphia uses its savings to offer an insanely rich contract.

Lorenzo Cain is a defensive asset in center field. That won't always be the case.
Here's a tally of his DRS by season, starting in 2013: 23, 22, 18, 11, 5. That's a troubling trend for anyone planning on presenting the 31-year-old a multiyear deal. 
Both Cain and suitors should seek a situation where he can move to a corner slot in a couple of years if needed. For example, the Kansas City Royals veteran would initially occupy center for the Seattle Mariners, but he could eventually switch places with Mitch Haniger.
Having spent the last two seasons frequently playing corner outfielders Yoenis Cespedes and Michael Conforto in center, the New York Mets are a reasonable candidate to recruit Cain. If all goes according to plan, they would need him to lock down his current position for the duration of his deal.
Given general manager Sandy Alderson's tendencies, the 2015 All-Star would also struggle to secure a long-term deal. That alone could sway him to sign elsewhere. According to FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman, the Royals aren't confident about retaining him because they believe a competitor will offer at least four years. 
And if Cain believes in curses, he won't want to join Cespedes, Conforto, Juan Lagares, Noah Syndergaard, Matt Harvey, Steven Matz, Zack Wheeler, Seth Lugo, Robert Gsellman, Jeurys Familia, Wilmer Flores, T.J. Rivera, Travis d'Arnaud and David Wright on the list of Mets who suffered injuries in 2017. 

Alex Cobb will most likely play for a new team, but he may visit his old squad frequently.
Last month, Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe reported that the New York Yankees, Baltimore Orioles and Toronto Blue Jays are "very interested" in poaching the Tampa Bay Rays starting pitcher, who is "battle-tested in the AL East."
The Orioles are not an ideal fit for a pitcher. Go to the Lance Lynn section for more on them. Yankee Stadium is a treacherous landing spot for a right-handed hurler, but at least he would be joining a winner.
Brandishing a 3.08 career ERA against AL East adversaries, he does not need to flee the trying grouping. He has also, however, pitched many of those games at Tropicana Field, which finished 2017 among the top 10 in stifling runs and home runs. 
By pursuing Cobb, Toronto would demonstrate a belief in turning around a 76-86 season with better health from Aaron Sanchez, Devon Travis and Troy Tulowitzki. Even if both oft-injured middle infielders avoid any more absences, a lineup that finished the season No. 26 in scoring will need more reinforcements to contend.
The Blue Jays may withdraw their interest in Cobb after re-signing Marco Estrada to a one-year extension. Either way, the 30-year-old should explore life in the National League, perhaps by reuniting with former manager Joe Maddon in Chicago.

Zack Cozart is free agency's top shortstop who batted .297/.385/.548 with 5.0 WAR in 2017. The position's scarcity would have steered him to a major raise in prior years, but a recent star influx puts the 32-year-old in an awkward situation.
No big-market team needs to spend on a shortstop. Unless the Arizona Diamondbacks pivot his way after losing J.D. Martinez, his best offer could come from a rebuilding franchise with money to spare. 
Given the uncertain market, this pick comes with an asterisk. Staying with the Cincinnati Reds could be his best option, particularly if they extend him a $17.4 million qualifying offer. Cozart should then consider accepting to validate his stock with another strong season. If he declines, attaching draft-pick compensation would further derail his outside options.
Yet Zach Buchanan and C. Trent Rosecrans of the Cincinnati Enquirer said it "seems more likely" the Reds will forgo the qualifying offer. The Reds, who have not reached the playoffs since 2013, may only want him back for a hometown discount.
If the same applies for his other suitors, perhaps he will prefer to stay home. This would derail his path to the postseason, and MLB.com's Mark Sheldon said the lifelong Reds shortstop "really wants to play for a winner."

This is not because the Texas Rangers traded Darvish on July 31. If he liked Texas and receives a strong offer from his former club, the ace should consider returning.
He should also remember why the Rangers moved him in the first place. Their bullpen posted baseball's third-worst ERA (4.76), and no rotation notched a lower strikeout percentage. Even if Darvish comes back, the starting staff needs major work beyond a regressing Cole Hamels.
Only the Houston Astros and Yankees hit more home runs than the Rangers, but they still finished No. 16 with a .750 OPS. Adrian Beltre, who turns 39 next April, has one year left on his contract.
The hitters may enjoy Globe Life Park in Arlington, a stadium with 2017's second-highest scoring factor behind Coors Field. Darvish, meanwhile, surrendered 13 long balls and a 5.38 ERA in a dozen starts at home before the deadline deal.
The strikeout artist also utilized his NL relocation to stockpile 61 strikeouts in 49.2 regular-season innings for the Los Angeles Dodgers. Staying in a spacious ballpark on a stacked NL West squad would work wonders for Darvish, but the Dodgers may have too much pitching depth to extend him a huge offer.
A playoff fixture when he arrived, the Rangers must make major improvements to stay in the wild-card hunt. Darvish will especially have his pick of deep-pocketed contenders if he leads the Dodgers to a World Series triumph.

Wade Davis went two seasons (2014 and 2016) without relinquishing a home run. He yielded two this postseason but should nevertheless elicit interest from teams—including the Cubs—pursuing a brand-name closer.
Even though this October wasn't pretty, a career 1.40 postseason ERA and 2015 title with the Royals will still stand out to postseason hopefuls.
Even if superior middle relievers are available, Greg Holland likely became the market's second-best "proven closer" after declining his player option. In addition to losing their ninth-inning reliever, the Colorado Rockies must worry about retaining free agents Pat Neshek and Jake McGee.
Davis should let their calls go to voicemail.
With Jonathan Lucroy, Mark Reynolds and Carlos Gonzalez also hitting the open market, the Rockies need more than one addition to return to the playoffs. If they do, the Dodgers would likely relegate them to the Wild Card Game again.
Without retaining any of their three best relievers, only Chris Rusin is left to hand Davis a lead. As he learned early in the National League Championship Series, even the most outside-the-box-thinking manager will let a closer wither away in the bullpen if his teammates don't give him a save situation.
There's also, of course, Coors Field. Davis has now served up seven long balls since the start of August.
In his prime, he would have been a prime candidate to combat the high altitude. As a 32-year-old who issued 28 walks in 58.2 innings, the unforgiving stadium would expedite a decline.

A person in their 20s—Eric Hosmer turns 28 on Tuesday—would be forgiven for moving from Kansas City to New York. Especially if the Yankees offer him more money, which is a distinct possibility given their budget advantages over the Royals.
According to FanRag Sports' Heyman, the Yankees are attracted by Hosmer's leadership and experience at the center of big moments. If they present him an offer anywhere near the eight years and $200 million agent Scott Boras is reportedly seeking—which is similar to the eight-year, $180 million contract Boras client Mark Teixeira signed nine years ago—who is this writer to say the first baseman should decline?
Just remember that a big market means more eyeballs, which often means irrational media scrutiny. Aaron Judge wasn't exempt from criticism when slumping during and after a 52-homer season. Neither was Gary Sanchez after some passed balls.
Those are home-grown superstars who have the Yankees one win away from seizing the AL pennant. How will fans and pundits respond to mediocre results from Hosmer?
There's a strong chance of discovering the answer if he goes to the Bronx, as he amassed WAR values of minus-1.7, 0.0 and minus-0.1 in 2012, 2014 and 2016, respectively. Hosmer has major bust potential anywhere, but Royals fans will remember 2015's championship before bemoaning an overpay.
If he receives superstar money and does not perform like one, the Big Apple would turn him into a pariah. His salary could also hinder them from winning a bidding war for Bryce Harper, Manny Machado or Clayton Kershaw next year.
Many of these points can transfer to the Boston Red Sox, but at least they actually need a first baseman and a significant offensive upgrade. If added to the affable "Baby Bombers," Hosmer would stand out as a needless luxury harking back to the Evil Empire's days of reckless spending.

Lance Lynn and the St. Louis Cardinals might place each other atop their stay-away lists. 
The 30-year-old pitcher spoke critically of the team trading Mike Leake in August and failing to communicate on an extension. The Cardinals promoted Luke Weaver and Jack Flaherty to their rotation late in 2017 and will hope to welcome back Alex Reyes in 2018.
Since a breakup seems highly likely, let's look elsewhere. After composing a 4.97 team ERA, the Orioles need to upgrade their starting staff. According to MLB.com's Jon Paul Morosi, they plan on seeking outside help.
Lynn would represent a seismic improvement over their other starters beyond Dylan Bundy and Kevin Gausman. That's more of an indictment on Baltimore than a compliment to Lynn, who posted the worst strikeout (7.39) and walks (3.77) per nine rates of his career this season.
No qualified starter enjoyed a more advantageous discrepancy between his ERA and fielding independent pitching (FIP). As a result, he must choose his new team extremely carefully to avoid an extreme regression.
Moving to a difficult home park for an American League squad with a troublesome defense is not advised. Lynn would not vault them into contention following a 75-win season, which may motivate the Orioles to trade upcoming free agents Machado, Adam Jones, Zach Britton and/or Brad Brach next summer.
If they relent and rebuild, Lynn could also become a trade candidate depending on his contract. 

The San Francisco Giants hit 53 home runs after the All-Star break. Martinez hit 31.
When a big-market team ranks last in long balls, everyone will naturally link it to the elite slugger of the next free-agent class. When examining the outfielder's top potential destinations, MLB.com's Morosi said, "Martinez and San Francisco might be the most logical pairing of any free agent and team this winter."
From San Francisco's perspective, sure. Even that is an uncertainty, as it is already tied to $154.4 million in 2018 payroll before enacting Madison Bumgarner's $12 million club option.
Martinez may not care about those commitments if the Giants don't. Yet if he values winning, he should wonder if they can rebound from a bleak 64-98 season while locked down to multiple highly paid veterans coming off down years. 
If he enjoys hitting homers, he will definitely want nothing to do with AT&T Park. For the fourth consecutive year, San Francisco's cavernous ballpark induced MLB's lowest home run factor. No Giants player has hit 25 or more long balls in a season since Hunter Pence produced 27 in 2013.
Although Martinez would also represent their best power hitter in years, he has benefited from two hitting-friendly environments in Comerica Park and Chase Field. The 30-year-old wields a career .605 slugging percentage at Comerica and .813 slugging percentage in 38 games at Arizona's home park. 
His road slugging percentage dips to .476.
There's doubt over the Diamondbacks presenting him a competitive offer, but Martinez expressed an openness to extend their working relationship last month, per AZCentral.com's Nick Piecoro. 
"I've thought about it a lot," Martinez said. "It's definitely something I'd love, I'd be interested in. I've loved my time here. The guys are great. The team is young. They're definitely going to be good for a while."
The Giants are old and on the downswing. It would be a shame to see a star slugger dragged down with them.

Wherever he goes, Mike Moustakas is unlikely to hit 38 home runs next season. This is especially true if he stays with the Royals.
According to Baseball Savant, those long balls went an average distance of 397 feet. Cody Bellinger was the only other one of 14 players who belted 37 or more homers with an average rate below 400 feet. 
Even with a career 44.0 fly-ball percentage, sustaining such elite power will be tough if the third baseman keeps playing half his schedule at Kauffman Stadium. The spacious outfield is conducive to hits, but one of baseball's stingiest venues in terms of home runs. 
For Cain and Hosmer, the dimensions work as a feature. For a fly-ball hitter who frequently pulls the ball, it's a detriment.
Moustakas, who went yard 24 times on the road in 2017, hit .259/.302/.456 at home during a breakout year. He would have a lot more fun swinging at Fenway Park, where the right-field wall looks more like a gate parents use to keep a toddler away from the staircase.
There's also the fact that the Royals are unlikely to retain all three position players. Even if they find the money to afford all three, other holes led them to post a minus-89 run differential last season.
The 29-year-old would put up better numbers and enhance his chances or returning to the playoffs with the Red Sox, Cardinals or even the Phillies.
     
Note: Advanced statistics courtesy of FanGraphs and Baseball Reference unless otherwise noted. MLB Park Factors are from ESPN.com. Salary information obtained from Cot's Baseball Contracts.



After three weeks of thrilling postseason action, the World Series opens on Tuesday night at Dodger Stadium. 
The Los Angeles Dodgers, by virtue of earning the best regular-season record in baseball, will have home-field advantage against either the Houston Astros or New York Yankees. 
Just like in the division series and championship series, both teams in the Fall Classic will rely on their stars in clutch situations to be the true difference makers. 
The Dodgers proved they have plenty in their lineup throughout their NLCS conquest of the Chicago Cubs, and stars are emerging on both sides of the ALCS as it shifts back to Houston. There's a good chance some of those stars will be the names we're talking about throughout the World Series. 
                   
Schedule
Game 1: Yankees or Astros at Dodgers, Tuesday, October 24, Time TBD, Fox
Game 2: Yankees or Astros at Dodgers, Wednesday, October 25, Time TBD, Fox
Game 3: Dodgers at Yankees or Astros, Friday, October 27, Time TBD, Fox
Game 4: Dodgers at Yankees or Astros, Saturday, October 28, Time TBD, Fox
Game 5: Dodgers at Yankees or Astros, Sunday, October 29, Time TBD, Fox
Game 6: Yankees or Astros at Dodgers, Tuesday, October 31, Time TBD, Fox
Game 7: Yankees or Astros at Dodgers, Wednesday, November 1, Time TBD, Fox 
                 
Players to Watch 
Justin Turner
Justin Turner won NLCS co-MVP alongside Chris Taylor for his terrific series at the plate. The 32-year-old infielder has exceeded expectations by becoming the go-to guy in the heart of the Dodgers order. 
Turner is batting .387 this postseason with an on-base percentage of .500 to go along with three home runs and 12 RBIs. Not only has he flexed his power at the plate, Turner has also come through with his patience as he's earned six walks. 

The Dodgers will look to Turner to set the tone at home in Games 1 and 2 no matter if it's through an early home run, or just a strong at-bat that gets him on base to begin a rally.
Whichever team opposes Turner in the World Series will have a problem getting him out, and if his current form holds, he may be on track to win World Series MVP. 
           
Kenley Jansen 
A lot of focus will be on the Dodgers rotation entering the World Series, with Clayton Kershaw, Rich Hill and Yu Darvish expected to take the hill early in the series. 

However, the real game-changer for the Dodgers comes in the bullpen in the form of closer Kenley Jansen. The 30-year-old right-hander has been untouchable throughout the postseason, and he'll be relied upon possibly earlier than the ninth to set down the opponent's order. 
In seven appearances this postseason, Jansen has given up two hits and an unearned run while striking out 12. He's even shown that he can work multiple innings to earn a save as he did that in Game 2 of the NLDS and Game 1 of the NLCS. 
               
Gary Sanchez
If the Yankees finish off the Astros this weekend in Houston, they'll have Gary Sanchez to thank for getting them to the World Series as well as a few other stars. 

Sanchez came alive at Yankee Stadium during Games 3 through 5 of the ALCS with one home run and 5 RBI, including the game-winning double in Game 4. 
With a ton of focus from opposing staffs on shutting down Aaron Judge, Sanchez gives the Yankees a bat out of the cleanup spot that can either take advantage of the pitches Judge won't get, or add to the damage in a rally started by the other talented young slugger in the lineup. 
                
Luke Gregerson 
There are so many valuable players on the Houston Astros roster, but Luke Gregerson may prove to be the most important if they reach the Fall Classic. 

While most of the Astros bullpen has struggled during the ALCS, Gregerson has given up one hit in just under three innings of work. 
If Houston is able to get solid starts out of its staff led by Dallas Keuchel and Justin Verlander, Gregerson will be called upon to bridge the gap between the starters and closer Ken Giles. At a point in the season where the margin for error is slim, Gregerson is a player A.J. Hinch can trust to get the job done in critical situations. 
                     
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90.
All statistics obtained from MLB.com. 



It's do-or-die time for the Houston Astros.
Once up 2-0 in the ALCS against the New York Yankees, the Astros went to New York and watched that lead turn into a 3-2 series deficit. Now, the Yankees will have the opportunity to close things out in Game 6 with the series shifting back to Houston.
The stakes couldn't be higher.
Below, you'll find all the viewing information you need and a preview of the crucial matchup between the Astros and Yankees.
      
When: Friday, Oct. 20 at 8:08 p.m. ET
Where: Minute Maid Park, Houston
Watch: FS1
Stream: Fox Sports Go
       
Preview

Any preview of this game has to start with the excellent pitching matchup: Luis Severino on the hill for the Yankees against Astros righty Justin Verlander.
Severino has had his ups and downs in three postseason starts, going 1-0 with a 5.56 ERA, 1.24 WHIP and nine strikeouts in 11.1 innings. He lasted just four innings in New York's 2-1 Game 2 loss, albeit coming off a 113-pitch start just five days earlier against Cleveland.
However, Severino was excellent in the regular season and certainly has the ability to shut down the dangerous Astros.
If he can keep his composure, that is.
"I hope I can control my emotions," he said, per Dan Martin and Ken Davidoff of the New York Post. "I feel a lot of confidence in myself."
Severino may not even need to be at his best to stifle the Astros, though. The top offense in baseball during the regular season has gone cold in the ALCS, managing just nine runs in five games. As a team, they are hitting .167.
They were shutout in Game 5 and, if the bats don't wake up, it may not matter how well Verlander pitches in Game 6.
"We're going to go home," manager A.J. Hinch said after Game 5, per MLB.com. "We hit well. We get a day off tomorrow, which is probably the most important thing, and try to make some offensive adjustments. The playoffs, [are] about advanced scouting and exposing weaknesses, if they get you to crack a little bit outside of your game plan then they’ve got you. We haven't stayed in our game plan quite well enough to make adjustments."

While the Astros have gone cold, the Yankees have heated up. Aaron Judge's reemergence has been a huge factor. After registering just four hits in New York's opening eight postseason games, Judge caught fire over the past three games, posting four hits, two homers and six RBI.
That helped awaken a Yankees offense that had managed just two total runs in the first two games of the ALCS, both losses.
So, will returning to Houston help the Astros regain their torrid offense? Will the Yankees stall against? It should be noted that the Astros are 4-0 this postseason at home, and will assuredly welcome playing in front of their home fans.
"New York is no joke. Yankee Stadium is a tough place to play," Astros pitcher Dallas Keuchel acknowledged, per Kristie Ackert of the New York Daily News. "And it was rocking these three games. But it’s going to be rocking Friday for us."
Having Verlander on the mound will help, too. He's 3-0 this postseason with a 2.04 ERA, 0.96 WHIP and 16 strikeouts in 17.2 innings. In his five regular-season starts after joining the Astros, he went 5-0 with a 1.06 ERA and 43 strikeouts in 34 innings.
Suffice to say, Verlander is red-hot. Having him on the mound will be a confidence booster for the Astros. Not that they were ever likely to lose faith.
"Our backs are against the wall," veteran Brian McCann told Scott Lauber of ESPN.com. "We'll be ready. This team, we've played extremely well all season long, and nothing's going to change. We'll be ready for Game 6. We've responded all year long."



Editor's Note: Justin Verlander forced an ALCS Game 7 with a dominant 7 IP, 5 H, 0 ER, 8 K performance against the Yankees on Friday night. He lowered his 2017 postseason ERA to 1.46, and has now thrown a remarkable 24 consecutive scoreless innings in postseason elimination games.
Verlander has been the driving force for the Astros, going 9-0 since an August 31 trade that nearly never happened. Read below for more on the 2017 MLB postseason's most untouchable superstar, and the dramatic details of the last-second deal.

The Christmas card came from Justin Verlander's parents a few years back. It wasn't like anything you could buy in a store. It wouldn't have been fit for anyone but Verlander, anyway.
But for him, it was perfect. The best Christmas card ever.
And it was also a challenge.
One side of the card listed Verlander's career numbers. The other had the career numbers of Nolan Ryan, the Hall of Fame pitcher Verlander idolized as a kid growing up in Virginia.
"My parents got [Ryan] to sign it," Verlander said this week. "I always loved that card, because I looked at it like, 'Hey kid, you've got a long way to go.'"
He still does. But as Verlander prepares to pitch Game 6 of the American League Championship Series on Friday night at Minute Maid Park, his idol is right there in front of him. Right there, sitting in the front row, as Verlander pitches for Ryan's team, the Houston Astros.
👀 my idol growing up watching me pitch in the playoffs!?! Full circle moment for me.  #NolanRyan 🐐 https://t.co/8YNrmq1jSv https://t.co/ztyEdIEocg
"That's pretty cool," Verlander said.
So is this: The winter Ryan turned 35 years old, in January 1982, he had 189 career wins. Verlander turns 35 in February. He has 188.
Wins have gone out of style as a way to measure pitchers' success, and understandably so, but to pitchers like Verlander, they still matter. Even if he pitched to 46 as Ryan did, Verlander might never come close to his totals of seven no-hitters (Verlander has two) or 5,714 strikeouts (Verlander has 2,416), but joining him in the 300-win club (Ryan had 324) wouldn't be outrageous.
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
In the much more immediate future, this weekend Verlander could do something Ryan never quite managed, by pitching the Astros into a World Series.
He can't do it by himself, thanks to three straight Astros losses to the New York Yankees this week at Yankee Stadium. But another Verlander win Friday, perhaps a repeat of his brilliant effort in Game 2, would send the ALCS to a decisive Game 7 on Saturday.
They may as well take it to the last day, to the last minute, even to the last second. After all, wasn't that how the Astros got Verlander in the first place? It was sudden, it was stunning and it even included two guys sitting in a parked car for an hour. More on that later.
First, here's what Detroit Tigers general manager Al Avila told Astros GM Jeff Luhnow the night of the trade: "This guy is going to take you to the World Series. And he might win it for you."
"He did [say that]," Luhnow confirmed nearly seven weeks later, with the Astros one step from the Series. "He was still selling at that point. I said, 'You don't need to sell. I've already given you everything I can give you.'"
He gave the Tigers Daz Cameron, Franklin Perez and Jake Rogers, three prospects he had resisted giving up. The Tigers agreed to pay a little more than $17 million of the $61 million or so remaining on Verlander's contract. Verlander agreed to waive his no-trade protection in exchange for the Astros dropping a $22 million vesting option for 2020.
And just like Nolan Ryan nearly four decades earlier, Justin Verlander became a Houston Astro.
None of this seemed possible in the early days of July, when Verlander had a 4.96 ERA and had just allowed seven runs to the Cleveland Indians in just 3.1 innings. Nobody was trading for Verlander then, not if it meant taking on any significant part of a $28 million-a-year contract that ran for two more seasons after this one.
He was a guy who had thrown too many pitches over the years, a guy who was getting old, a guy on the decline. Except he never believed that.
Verlander felt too good to be struggling. He kept watching video, kept making changes, kept listening to suggestions, and he kept going out to the mound and seeing nothing substantially change.

Then one day it did.
"I still remember late one night him telling me and [Mick] Billmeyer he knew why he'd been struggling," said Matt Martin, who was on the Tigers coaching staff with Billmeyer. "I rolled my eyes, but when he told me what it was I said, 'That makes sense.' He took off from there."
It was a small adjustment, Verlander said, a mechanical tweak so small he had missed it all those other times he looked at the video. One day, he saw it, and he fixed it.
Plenty has been said since Verlander came to the Astros about how Houston pitching coach Brent Strom helped him with his changeup and how the Astros' high-def cameras helped him fine-tune the release point on his slider. It's not wrong, but it is a little misleading.
The Astros didn't fix Justin Verlander. They traded for an elite and ultra-competitive pitcher who a month earlier had basically fixed himself.
In the final 11 starts of a Tigers career that began when they made him the second overall pick in the 2004 draft, Verlander had a 2.31 ERA. He was even better in three starts against teams that would make the 2017 playoffs, with an 0.87 ERA against the Cleveland Indians, Los Angeles Dodgers and the Astros, whom he shut out for six innings on July 30.
By then, the Tigers were well out of the race and fully committed to a rebuild. They assembled thorough scouting reports on the farm systems of the Dodgers, Astros, New York Yankees and Chicago Cubs. Those turned out to be the four teams that would reach the League Championship Series, but they were also the four that seemed to fit best for a Verlander trade.
At the July 31 non-waiver deadline, not one of them bit.
The Dodgers and Yankees both told the Tigers they weren't interested, according to sources familiar with the trade discussions, because adding Verlander's contract would make it nearly impossible for them to get under the luxury-tax threshold next year. The Cubs made a July 13 trade with the Chicago White Sox for starter Jose Quintana. That left them with enough prospects to make a deadline deal with the Tigers for reliever Justin Wilson and catcher Alex Avila (Al Avila's son), but not enough to get Verlander.
If Verlander was going anywhere, it was going to be the Astros. And at that point, Luhnow wasn't prepared to part with the prospects or take on the money.
The calendar turned to August, and Verlander stayed with the Tigers.
Four things happened in August that changed the story.
First, Verlander's resurgence on the mound continued. Twice he took a no-hitter into the sixth inning, ending up allowing one hit in eight innings against the Pittsburgh Pirates and two hits in eight innings against the Dodgers.

Second, the Astros' lack of a move at the deadline brought quick and harsh criticism, even from within their own clubhouse.
"I mean, I'm not going to lie, disappointment is a little bit of a understatement," starting pitcher Dallas Keuchel told reporters, as MLB.com's Brian McTaggart posted on Twitter.
Third, the Astros slumped on the field. They still had a healthy lead in the American League West, but they were 11-17 in August, the only month they had a losing record.
Finally, when the Tigers placed Verlander on the type of waivers required to make a deal after July 31, no team put in a claim. A claim would have blocked the Tigers from trading Verlander—but would also put a team at risk of assuming the pitcher's entire enormous contract. No team was willing to take that risk, despite repeated public statements by Avila that he wouldn't give Verlander away.
Even with all that, a Verlander trade remained a long shot. Tigers president Chris Ilitch, who took over control of the team from his late father, told Avila he was fully prepared to pay the rest of Verlander's contract, unless a deal could be made that helped jump-start the Tigers' rebuild. No team was showing real interest. Finally, on Aug. 31, the final day an acquired player would be eligible to play in the postseason, Luhnow checked back in.
Even then, the chances of a deal seemed remote.
So at 6 p.m. ET, after making a trade to send Justin Upton to the Los Angeles Angels, and with no Verlander trade in sight, Avila and his staff left Comerica Park and headed for Avila's home in suburban Bloomfield. Avila's wife would cook dinner and with the Tigers off that night, they'd watch whatever game they could find on TV and wait out a quiet deadline.
A few hours later, it was anything but quiet.
The Astros had a series in Anaheim the weekend before the deadline. They were supposed to go home after that, but because of Hurricane Harvey, their series against the Texas Rangers was moved to Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida. Luhnow stayed in Southern California, where his wife's parents live.
As Avila remembers it, Luhnow called him again at about 10:30 p.m. ET. The Astros wanted Verlander, and they were ready to offer enough of the players the Tigers wanted to get a deal done. It didn't take long for the teams to reach an agreement on players and money. By 11 p.m. or so, they had a tentative deal. But there was just one hour to go until the deadline, and a lot still to do to get things finalized.
Both teams had to get ownership approval. The Tigers had to review medical reports on the three prospects involved. Fortunately, Avila was prepared. He had kept athletic trainer Kevin Rand on call, and Rand started going over medicals even before the full deal was agreed to.
Verlander had to agree to the deal or none of it would have mattered. Not only did he have to agree, but the Tigers had to have Verlander's signature on a form saying he agreed.
Fortunately, Avila was prepared for that, too.
Verlander was at his apartment in Birmingham, Michigan. Sometime around 11 p.m., a car pulled up outside the apartment and parked. Avila had instructed two of his assistants to go there and wait, ready to get Verlander's signature and send it to the Commissioner's Office in New York by midnight.

Verlander had less than an hour to make one of the biggest decisions of his life. He says now he was never close to turning the deal down, but it took time for him to say yes. He had a lot of questions that needed answers.
At some point during the hour, Astros pitcher Dallas Keuchel called. Verlander didn't have much time to talk.
"I know you've got to go," Keuchel told him. "But if you come here, you won't regret this decision."
"What he said resonated with me," Verlander said.
"I don't know if I helped," Keuchel said. "But I like to think I'm a good salesman."
As the hour passed, Luhnow called Avila asking for updates. Avila checked in with Verlander to remind him they needed a decision. The two Tigers staffers stayed in the parked car, waiting.
Maybe 10 minutes before the deadline, Luhnow told his manager, A.J. Hinch, that he didn't think the deal would happen. As it turned out, right about that time, Verlander was telling Avila he would accept the trade.
Avila called his aides and told them to go up to Verlander's apartment and get his signature on the form. With no time to make it back to Avila's house, they pulled out a phone, took a picture of the signed form and sent the picture to New York. The Tigers and Astros both sent their part of the paperwork to New York, too, getting done with maybe a minute to spare. Avila put Verlander on one speakerphone and the Commissioner's Office on the other, so New York could hear Verlander say yes.
Meanwhile, in California, Luhnow got in his car and took his wife to dinner. He still didn't know if everything had gotten to New York in time.
"MLB didn't call me until 15 minutes after the deadline," he said. "Even then, I thought it was 50-50 it had gone through. For those 15 minutes, I could barely breathe. My wife is asking me questions, and I couldn't think about anything. When MLB finally called, I answered on the first ring."
The deal had gone through. Verlander was an Astro. He would fly to Houston the next day. He made his Astros debut Sept. 5 in a 3-1 win in Seattle, and won again a week later in Anaheim. Five days after that, in his first home start, he allowed one run in seven innings in the game that clinched the division. He won twice in the ALDS against the Boston Red Sox, once as a starter, once in relief. He beat the Yankees in Game 2 of the ALCS, pitching perhaps as well as he has in any start in his career.
"Where would we be if we didn't have him?" Luhnow asked this week.
It's not just where the Astros are this year or where Verlander is right now. The way he's pitching, few who watch him have any doubt he can keep this up through the end of this contract or even further.
Ryan pitched until he was 46. Could Verlander do the same?

"If that's what he wants, he can get it," said Jack Morris, another former Tigers ace.
"I'm going to play as long as I can," Verlander said. "I love the game. I've always told everyone, I realize how fortunate I am to make a lot of money, but if I wasn't playing this game at a big league level, I'd be in some backyard playing baseball. I love the game."
He wants to win a World Series. He wants to add to his own win total. He knows the numbers Ryan finished with.
They're right there on the card.
 
Danny Knobler covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report.
Follow Danny on Twitter and talk baseball.



The Los Angeles Dodgers punched their World Series ticket Thursday with an 11-1 win over the Chicago Cubs. The New York Yankees can do the same with a win Friday against the Houston Astros, or the 'stros can force a decisive Game 7.
No matter what, we are on the doorstep of the World Series. 
With that in mind, let's check in with another installment of B/R's MLB Metrics 101 series and update the postseason MVP leaderboard.
To be clear, we are looking for MVP candidates from the playoffs as a whole, which means we're zeroing in on the three teams left in the dance as of Thursday: the Dodgers, Astros and Yankees.
Small-sample caveats apply, but that's what October is all about.

2017 Postseason Stats: 3-0, 2.04 ERA, 17.2 IP, 16 SO
A waiver trade deadline pickup by the Astros, Justin Verlander has been nails in the playoffs. 
Pitching wins are an outmoded stat, but Verlander's 3-0 playoff record leaps out. The 2011 American League Cy Young Award and MVP winner has been a steadying force for Houston. 
Now, he can help the Astros stave off elimination.
"This is obviously the biggest game for the Astros up to this point for this season," Verlander said of Friday's pivotal Game 6, per the New York Daily News' Kristie Ackert. "The expectations are there. My teammates, I'm sure, are expecting a lot of me. And I expect a lot of myself."

2017 Postseason Stats: 2-1, 0.90 ERA, 20 IP, 18 SO
After a wobbly regular season, which left him on the fringe of the Yankees rotation, Masahiro Tanaka has emerged like a butterfly from a chrysalis.
Through 20 postseason frames, the Japanese right-hander has yielded a scant two runs while holding opponents to a .145 average.
Todd Frazier—the Yanks third baseman and trade deadline pickup—recently summarized Tanaka's rebirth.
"He's been doing it all postseason," Frazier said, per CBSSports.com's Mike Axisa. "Dominant. Just dominant. The ball just disappears on batters. I couldn't be more happy for him. He's a great guy on and off the field. Just what a performance. Gutsy."

2017 Postseason Stats: .394 AVG., 1.167 OPS, 3 HR, 4 RBI
Jose Altuve is all kinds of fun.
The diminutive second baseman has that quality, that certain je ne sais quoi. You want him to succeed.
And succeed he has, to the tune of 13 hits and three homers in nine games. The nominal front-runner for AL MVP honors, Altuve is restating his case in the playoffs.
"Jose Altuve's the MVP," said Astros manager A.J. Hinch, per Dan Martin of the New York Post. "I'm biased. I love [the Yankees'] Aaron Judge and [the Cleveland Indians'] Jose Ramirez and [the Los Angeles Angels'] Mike Trout and the seasons that those guys had, but Jose was the most consistent player in the big leagues."

2017 Postseason Stats: .414 AVG., 1.169 OPS, 1 HR, 6 RBI
 A little more than a year ago, yours truly wondered whether Yasiel Puig would don a Dodgers uniform again.
The mercurial Cuban outfielder had been demoted to the minor leagues. His performance on the field and behavior off it were raising red flags.
Now, Puig is the tongue-wagging soul of a Dodgers team that is headed to the World Series for the first time since 1988. He's also hitting above .400 and flashing all the tools that made him a breakout star once upon a time not so long ago.
"He's as focused as I've ever seen him," L.A. skipper Dave Roberts told Jared Wyllys of Sporting News. "We talk about his energy, but we talk about his focus as well."

2017 Postseason Stats: .387 AVG., 1.177 OPS, 3 HR, 12 RBI
Maybe you dislike Puig's bat-flipping antics or root against the Dodgers because of their big-spending ways. Fine. But it's impossible to root against Justin Turner.
The 32-year-old red-headed hero from Long Beach, California, has been Los Angeles' October anchor, slugging three home runs and tallying a dozen RBI.
He hit a walk-off three-run shot in Game 2 of the National League Championship Series against the Cubs and joined Kirk Gibson in elite franchise company in the process, per ESPN Stats & Info. He took home co-NLCS MVP honors.
Can he keep it going in the Fall Classic? We'll soon find out. Has he been a playoff stud thus far? Undeniably.
"Everyone in here wanted him at the plate in those situations," young slugger Cody Bellinger said of Turner, per AJ Cassavell of MLB.com. "He proved it why."
             
All statistics current as of Thursday and courtesy of MLB.com.



CHICAGO — Thump! went Enrique Hernandez's bat, pop! went the Champagne and vroom! went the Los Angeles bus. Rapidly.
En route to their first World Series in 29 years, this deep and talented bunch of Dodgers, the National League's best team during the regular season and now officially in October as well, learned many things along the path to the pennant. And one of the most essential occurred here in Wrigley Field just 12 months ago, as they got caught in a web of humanity when they tried to get out after losing the NL pennant to the Cubs.
So many celebrating Chicagoans were crushing the Wrigleyville neighborhood that the Dodgers were marooned in the clubhouse, their team bus delayed an hour until state troopers arrived to escort the vehicle through the madness.
Now, on the eve of this cruise of a National League Championship Series, ace Clayton Kershaw was asked what the Dodgers learned in losing to the Cubs last autumn that they could carry forward into this year's NLCS.
"Try to walk a few blocks and get an Uber if we lose," Kershaw quipped.
Everyone laughed, and six days later, the Dodgers were the ones laughing last, well into the raucous wee hours of the morning, having emphatically shuttered Wrigleyville for the winter. There was no need for an Uber. It was a smooth ride for this steamroller of a team from the first pitch in Game 1 to the last out in Thursday's 11-1 Game 5 bashing.
The final memories of the Dodgers' last game between their 1988 World Series triumph and their next appearance in the Fall Classic, which will open Tuesday in Dodger Stadium, are Kershaw getting that postseason monkey off of his back with six one-run innings in the clincher and outfielder Enrique Hernandez smashing three homers, including a grand slam, on a seven-RBI evening.

But all year, this was about getting past the Cubs.
The Dodgers remembered last October. Then, the regular-season schedule this year just happened to put them in Wrigley Field for the Cubs' home-opening series in April, when they were forced to watch Joe Maddon's crew take another victory lap in receiving their World Series rings. And, of course, the two clubs wound up on a collision course for the NL pennant yet again.
"It's awesome," Hernandez said amid one of the most energetic—and deserved—Champagne parties in recent memory. "I don't remember much of it, but when we were up 3-0 I knew the game [had a chance to] get out of hand."
So he belted a grand slam in the third to make it 7-0, and…
"Up seven with Kershaw pitching and with the bullpen we have, I don't think a combined team of the best players in the history of baseball could overcome that," Hernandez said. "I don't know what I did running around the bases. I don't know what I did when I got back to the dugout.
"I don't remember much of this game."
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
But he knew one thing for certain.
"Not only did we beat the world champs, we did it in an empty stadium," Hernandez continued, now going full throttle. "We crushed the fans' hearts and they left early and by the last out, it was all Dodger fans in the stadium."
Paint it blue, Dodger blue.
"The city needed this," said Hall of Famer Tommy Lasorda, the last man to manage the Dodgers into a World Series, from over in a safe corner of the room, on the other side of the Champagne spray. "They've supported the Dodgers so much. We owed them this year, and they're getting it because we've got great fans who really supported the team.
"We've always had good fans, even when we weren't winning. To see this happen … it's a gift to them."
It is a $265 million gift, the richest payroll in the game. If the New York Yankees push through to meet the Dodgers in what would be a resumption of the classic World Series matches most recently played in 1981, 1978 and 1977, it would represent the game's two largest payrolls battling in the Fall Classic. The Yankees check in at $224 million and lead the Houston Astros three games to two heading into Game 6 of the ALCS on Friday night.
"Hopefully," Kershaw quipped, "they go seven games and play 37 innings in the seventh game."

After falling just short of the World Series last year, Andrew Friedman, Dodgers president of baseball operations, and his staff decided that it was a team worth bringing back as close to whole as possible. So they re-signed their own free agents, Justin Turner (four years, $64 million), closer Kenley Jansen (five years, $80 million) and starter Rich Hill (three years, $48 million).
Under second-year manager Dave Roberts, an already close team jelled even more in spring training and then during the season as it raced out to an 80-33 start. When the Dodgers hit the skids later in the year with a stunning 11-game losing streak that wobbled to 16 losses in 17 games before they righted themselves, the core didn't crack.
Kershaw, 29, the 10-year veteran who has been asked to carry an inordinate amount of the baggage in previous postseasons only to see situations blow up on him with one bad inning here, another there and shoddy relief work at times that led to a 5-7 postseason record with a 4.57 ERA, spoke emotionally after Thursday's game about how this is his favorite team of which he's ever been a part.
In fact, in talking about the number of superstars wearing Dodger blue, Kershaw even said, "I'm just really thankful I get to be on this team."
That's right. Kershaw has won three Cy Young Awards and one MVP, he's a seven-time All-Star and he's become a close friend of legendary Hall of Famer Sandy Koufax, and Kershaw is thankful he "gets" to be on this team.

As the Champagne splashed, so many other Dodgers were thankful to play their part in getting Kershaw into his first World Series.
"It's easy to say the most impressive thing is when he takes the ball every fifth day," said Justin Turner, who, along with Chris Taylor, was named co-MVP of the NLCS. "But for me, the more impressive thing is watching him go about his business on those other four days, the work the he puts in and the routine and the tireless effort and training and amount of stuff that goes into his day, each and every day, to lead up to that start. It's something I've never seen out of anyone my entire life.
"It's incredible. No one, no one, that I've ever met works harder behind the scenes than Clayton does."
But the thing about this Dodgers team, what made it so dominant, went way beyond Kershaw and the so-called superstars. In the Dodgers' Game 3 win on Tuesday, all five RBI were produced by players who were not even on the Opening Day roster. Taylor was the 26th man coming out of spring training and opened the season at Triple-A Oklahoma City. Andre Ethier, because of a back injury, managed just 38 plate appearances this summer. Utility man Kyle Farmer had only 20 plate appearances, spending most of the season at Oklahoma City and Double-A Tulsa. And starter Yu Darvish was a July trade deadline acquisition from Texas.
Meanwhile, shortstop Charlie Culberson, a defensive whiz, had just 15 plate appearances this entire season but plugged in for an injured Corey Seager in the NLCS.
Yeah, the Dodgers have high-priced superstars in Kershaw ($33 million this year) and Adrian Gonzalez ($21.5 million, but done for the year with a back injury), but no small part of that payroll has been earmarked to provide depth that few other teams have.
"Every year, it's been a fun year for guys," Kershaw said. "But there's something about this year."
Then he pointed out how Hernandez sidled up to him just before the start of the game Thursday night and said, "Hey, I've got your back tonight."
"He said that before I even went out there," Kershaw said. "Then he goes and hits three home runs."

Every night, it seems, it's been like that for these guys. The Dodgers have won seven of eight postseason games, and now Roberts says he expects Seager to be back in the lineup for Game 1 of the World Series on Tuesday. And in case there is any doubt, Roberts said, "I can assure you Clayton will be starting Game 1."
Against L.A.'s bullpen, Cubs batters started this series 0-for-29 before finally scratching out their first hit. Turner batted .333, slugged .667 and posted a .478 on-base percentage. He had two homers, seven RBI and was 4-for-5 with runners in scoring position, including smashing a walk-off homer in Game 2 that elicited a congratulatory text from Kirk Gibson, the last man to hit a walk-off homer in a Dodgers postseason game. Taylor, meanwhile, the quintessential leadoff man, saw 16 pitches in his first two at-bats alone in Game 5 on Thursday night.
Even after the Cubs eked out a win in Game 4 to avoid the embarrassment of being swept, there was never any doubt.
"We're a better team than they are," one Dodger said simply before Thursday's clincher. "We know it, and they know it. Last year, they were better."
By the time the disappointed 42,735 headed out of Wrigley Field and into their winter a few hours later, everyone agreed.
"The better team won over the course of these five games," Cubs manager Joe Maddon said. "They played really well. They kind of outpitched us, and everything else. So give them credit."
Credit, indeed.
Now, bring on the Yankees...or the Astros. Doesn't matter, the Dodgers will be home in the Los Angeles sunshine, resting up, savoring the moment and, heck, probably hearing a whole lot about history.
First World Series in 29 years. The Dodgers? Finally.
How will they even know how to act after a wait this long?
"If we win, I might retire," Kershaw said. "I might call it a career."
     
Scott Miller covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report. Follow Scott on Twitter and talk baseball.



After missing the National League Championship Series with a back injury, Corey Seager should be able to help the Los Angeles Dodgers in the World Series.
Manager Dave Roberts said Thursday he expects the shortstop to be available for Game 1 on Tuesday, per Bleacher Report's Scott Miller.
The Dodgers clinched a spot in the World Series with their 11-1 Game 5 win over the Chicago Cubs on Thursday night at Wrigley Field.
Seager tweaked his back in the final game of the NLDS sweep over the Arizona Diamondbacks. While it didn't appear to be much at the time, the injury was enough to keep him off the NLCS roster.
Los Angeles didn't seem to need him, however, as the squad took just five games to knock out the defending champions. The offense averaged 5.6 runs per game during the stretch.
Of course, adding Seager should only help as he has become one of the best young hitters in baseball. The 23-year-old has been an All-Star in each of his two full seasons in the majors, and he finished this year with 22 home runs and a .295 batting average.
His .854 OPS ranked second in the majors among shortstops behind only Zack Cozart.
Roberts said Seager felt "considerably better" Sunday, per Ken Gurnick of MLB.com. With an extra week of rest, the talented player should be ready to make a significant impact against either the Yankees or Astros.



After going 108 years in between World Series titles, the possibility of winning two straight probably always was too good to be true for the Chicago Cubs.
Still, the Cubs won't make good on dynasty potential until they add at least one more title to the one they earned in 2016. Now's the time to acknowledge that this falls more toward "said" than "done" on the easy spectrum.
The Cubs' pursuit of the 2017 crown came to an end Thursday in Game 5 of the National League Championship Series at Wrigley Field. The only silver lining is that the Los Angeles Dodgers didn't break any more north siders' hearts than they had to.
The 11-1 final that earned the Dodgers their first National League pennant since 1988 was the whole series in a nutshell: A rout that the Cubs never had much chance of winning.
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
Where do the Cubs go from here? A good start would be a self-indulgent pat on the back for another nice run.
They did play in their third straight NLCS, after all. And their regular season was a fine display of gumption if nothing else.
Their 92 wins pale in comparison to the 97 and 103 that they earned in 2015 and 2016, respectively, but it was a fine end result for a team that was just 43-35 at the All-Star break. Plus, those 92 wins were good enough for a second straight NL Central title.
Once that pat on the back is finished, the Cubs can then let out a sigh of relief as they realize that many of their dynasty cornerstones aren't going anywhere.

Above the field, the front office will be run by Theo Epstein and Jed Hoyer for the foreseeable future. In the dugout, Joe Maddon is signed to manage through 2019.
Meanwhile, on the field, Chicago's lineup has homegrown products Kris Bryant, Anthony Rizzo, Willson Contreras, Addison Russell, Javier Baez, Kyle Schwarber, Albert Almora Jr. and Ian Happ all controlled for the long haul, with veterans Ben Zobrist and Jason Heyward around for a few more seasons on multi-year contracts. On the mound, the Cubs have Jon Lester, Kyle Hendricks and Jose Quintana to build around.
"Heads up. We're going to keep getting better," Maddon said after Game 5, per Chris Emma of CBS Chicago.
But, about that mound. That's where the questions begin popping up like champagne corks in the Dodgers clubhouse.
Chicago's pitching wasn't nearly as strong in 2017 as it had been in 2016. The club's regular-season ERA rose from 3.15 to 3.95, and Thursday's 11-1 stomping froze its postseason ERA at 4.54. 
The most obvious area that needs fixing is the bullpen. It did its best to ruin the Cubs' hot second half by posting a 4.48 ERA. It then sunk even further by allowing 27 runs in 10 postseason games. All the while, free passes were a constant nuisance.
"Frankly, that's been a theme with our pen," Epstein said this week, per CBS Chicago. "I mean, the headline with our pen is 'Good regular season, real tough postseason.' But in both the regular season and the postseason, we just walked far too many guys."
This would be a tough problem to fix under any circumstances. The fact that ace closer Wade Davis is due for free agency this winter makes it even tougher.
The Cubs will also have slots to fill in their starting rotation. John Lackey is ticketed for free agency and possibly retirement. Jake Arrieta is yet another pending free agent. And with a Cy Young in his pocket and plenty of numbers in his favor, he won't be cheap to re-sign.
"He's a squirrel with a lot of nuts in the tree. He's a big-game squirrel," Scott Boras, Arrieta's agent, said, per Mark Gonzales of the Chicago Tribune.

Re-signing Arrieta would be easily doable if the Cubs, who opened 2017 with a $172 million payroll, didn't have anything lurking beneath their $94 million in commitments for 2018. But they do.
Among those headed into arbitration for the first time next spring are Bryant, Russell and Hendricks, each of whom figures to get a hefty payday. The Cubs must also earmark money for the looming arbitration payouts of their other young stars.
All this will put limits on their budget for Arrieta and any other aces (e.g. Yu Darvish and possibly Masahiro Tanaka) on the open market. As such, the Cubs may have to turn to lesser free agents.
The trade market is typically a viable alternative for teams in their position. But for these Cubs? Less so.
Assorted blockbusters—most notably for Aroldis Chapman in 2016 and Quintana this year—over the past two seasons have sucked Chicago's farm system dry. To wit, it currently doesn't have a single prospect in MLB.com's top 100.
So, if the Cubs are going to use the trade market to replenish their pitching staff, it may mean sacrificing some pieces from their major league roster.
Moving Heyward in a bad contract swap could be Epstein's and Hoyer's preferred play, but they may have to get more serious to acquire serious help. Schwarber has been a trade-rumor favorite in the past and could be again. Baez, Almora and Happ are candidates to join him on "Expendable Young Talent" pile. 
It bears repeating that the Cubs will continue throwing their weight around like, well, actual bears in coming years no matter what happens this winter. They're simply too loaded to not be one of the National League's top contenders on an annual basis.
Yet there's no denying they took a step down from an impressive peak in 2017. Nor is there any denying that avoiding yet another step down in 2018 hinges on some creative wheeling and dealing happening over the offseason.
This is the thing about dynasties. Starting one is hard enough. Actually seeing one through to completion is harder. 
                  
Stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs. Contract and payroll info courtesy of Cot's Baseball Contracts.




For the first time since 1988, the Los Angeles Dodgers will play in the World Series after defeating the Chicago Cubs, 11-1, in Game 5 of the 2017 National League Championship Series at Wrigley Field. 
Enrique Hernandez was the offensive hero for Los Angeles with three home runs and seven RBI, including a grand slam in the top of the third inning. Clayton Kershaw exorcised his playoff demons with one run allowed on three hits with five strikeouts over six innings to lead the Dodgers to their first NL pennant in 29 years. 
Kershaw's playoff shortcomings have been well-documented. Coming into Thursday's game, the three-time NL Cy Young winner had a 4.57 ERA with 15 home runs allowed in 100.1 innings over 20 starts in the postseason. 
However, per ESPN Stats & Info, Kershaw has not let the Dodgers down in potential series clinchers during his career:
This is Clayton Kershaw's 3rd career appearance in a potential clincher in his postseason career. Dodgers are 2-0 in his prev 2 appearances.
After the Cubs won Game 4 Wednesday to keep their season alive, Dodgers manager Dave Roberts sounded full of confidence because of how things were set up for his team. 
"I wouldn't say that the pressure is on us," he said (via ESPN.com's Bradford Doolittle). "I think that we're in a pretty good spot. We've got our No. 1 pitcher going tomorrow, and we've got two of the guys at the back end rested. I can't speak to their mindset, but I still like the position we're in."
Los Angeles' No. 1 pitcher didn't disappoint one year after taking the loss in Game 6 of the NLCS when the Cubs clinched their spot in the World Series. 
The Dodgers gave Kershaw a cushion to work with right out of the gate on Cody Bellinger's RBI double in the top of the first inning. Hernandez extended the lead to 2-0 with a solo homer in the top of the second inning. 
ESPN.com's Dave Schoenfield added another point about Kershaw following Hernandez's grand slam that also explains some of his playoff shortcomings:
Dodgers have scored more runs tonight for Kershaw than his previous five NLCS starts combined.
Once the Dodgers knocked Cubs starter Jose Quintana out of the game early, things were set up for them to do serious damage because Chicago relievers have been horrible in the series, per SI.com's Jay Jaffe:
Cubs going to their bullpen, which has been something else in this series: 5.40 ERA, 4 HR, 13 BB, 12 K in 13.1 IP
After a Yasiel Puig single loaded the bases in the top of the third and ended Quintana's night, Hernandez delivered the knockout blow on the first pitch he saw from Hector Rondon, as MLB's Twitter account relayed:
What a time … for a slam. https://t.co/5hPoF4zNPX #PapaSlam https://t.co/S6lV692NOL
Following Hernandez's slam, ESPN's Arash Markazi captured video of Los Angeles Lakers president Magic Johnson, who is part of the ownership group that bought the Dodgers in 2012, dancing at Staples Center before the Lakers opened their season against the Los Angeles Clippers:
Magic Johnson continues to celebrate as the Dodgers take a 9-0 lead in the NLCS. https://t.co/feW8bqZYV6
Hernandez capped off his historic night with a two-run shot in the top of the ninth inning, making Dodgers history in the process, as True Blue LA's Eric Stephen noted:
Kiké Hernandez: most HR by a Dodger in a postseason game (3, also ties MLB record), most RBI by a Dodger in a postseason game (7)
MLB.com's Joe Posnanski did note the last two three-homer games in a league championship series have come from unlikely sources:
The last two players to hit 3 homers in a championship series game: Enrique Hernandez and Adam Kennedy. So ... baseball.
Just as the Cubs had their moment in the sun last year by posting the best record in Major League Baseball during the regular season en route to winning the World Series, the Dodgers have followed their lead in up to this point in 2017. 
With the Dodgers' trip to the Fall Classic 29 years in the making, social media offered reminders of what life was like in 1988:
Top laptop when the Dodgers last won the pennant. It cost $4K. It had 1MB of RAM, a 20MB hard drive, weighed 14lb and 2hr of battery life. https://t.co/iHMbFvc2fi
The last tine #Dodgers went to the World Series, Ronald Reagan was President. The Berlin Wall still stood. Clayton Kershaw was 7 months old
The Dodgers won their fifth straight National League West title, the longest active streak in MLB. They went on a historic 44-7 run from June 7 through August 6, leading Sports Illustrated to suggest they could be the greatest team of all time. 
Things took a turn over the final month-and-a-half of the regular season, with September being particularly unkind to Los Angeles, as ESPN.com's Dan Szymborski pointed out:
If only the Dodgers had momentum or something rather than going 12-17 in September...
With uncertainty about where the team stood heading into the postseason because of that rough stretch, the Dodgers have gone 7-1 against the Arizona Diamondbacks and Cubs to move within four wins of the franchise's seventh World Series title. 
In five games against the Cubs, Dodgers pitching allowed a total of eight runs. Game 4 was the only time Chicago's offense managed to score more than two runs in a game. 
The story of Chicago's disappearing lineup sits up there with the bullpen shortcomings as the main reasons the 2016 World Series champions missed an opportunity to repeat. 
The only game this postseason the Cubs scored more than three runs was Game 5 of the NLDS against the Washington Nationals when they pushed across nine runs in that memorable series-clincher. 
Per Ryan Marx and Jonathon Berlin of the Chicago Tribune, prior to Game 4 Wednesday, the Cubs' average of 5.3 hits per playoff game ranked last out of 96 playoff teams and their 2.6 runs per game ranked 93rd since 1995. 
This offseason is an important one for Chicago's front office. Jake Arrieta and Wade Davis are the Cubs' two big free agents, but the bullpen showed its lack of depth in front of Davis this postseason, which will need to be addressed. 
While the Cubs are left to wonder what went wrong in October, the Dodgers' magical season will keep going with Game 1 of the World Series against the New York Yankees or Houston Astros at Dodger Stadium on Oct. 24. 
In all likelihood, Kershaw will be the one throwing the first pitch in that game with a regular four days off before the Fall Classic begins. 



Ron Gardenhire is returning to the American League Central, with the Detroit Tigers hiring him as their next manager, per a team announcement Friday. 
The Athletic's Ken Rosenthal first reported the news Thursday.
Gardenhire managed the Minnesota Twins from 2002 to 2014, compiling a 1,068-1,039 record. Under his watch, the Twins won six division titles.
According to The Athletic's Katie Strang, Tigers general manager Al Avila preferred to hire a manager with prior experience in the role and saw the 59-year-old Gardenhire as a "seasoned, battle-tested option."
Gardenhire certainly represents a stark contrast to his predecessor, Brad Ausmus. Ausmus was 44 and only a few seasons removed from being an active player when he took over as the Tigers manager in November 2013.
Detroit won 90 games in Ausmus' first season but failed to make the playoffs over the next three years, which led to the team's decision not to renew his contract after the 2017 campaign.
After going with a first-time manager in Ausmus didn't exactly work out, opting for a safer choice in Gardenhire makes some sense.
However, even Gardenhire may struggle to make the Tigers a playoff contender within the next few years. The fact Detroit traded Justin Upton and Justin Verlander, two proven veterans who had multiple years left on their contracts, signaled a massive rebuild is on the horizon.
In September, Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter ranked the Tigers' minor league organization as the 17th-best in MLB. None of Reuter's top five Tigers prospects had progressed beyond Double-A.
Detroit is also on the hook for $74 million over the next three seasons for Jordan Zimmermann and $184 million over the next six seasons for Miguel Cabrera. Cabrera's contract, in particular, puts a serious burden on the Tigers' payroll and limits the team's financial flexibility when the time comes to spend on free agents.
Gardenhire should be a steady hand who helps get the most out of the Tigers' aging veterans and also sets the franchise up well for its next competitive cycle in the future.
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron



There is no shortage of storylines as the 2017 Major League Baseball playoffs approach the World Series, and any of the possible matchups will provide intrigue and drama.
The New York Yankees are playing the role of the lovable upstart in the American League Championship Series against the Houston Astros after losing the first two games and winning three straight to take the lead. This is still the franchise with 27 World Series titles, but the young core is thriving on the biggest stage for the first time together.
On the National League side, it is finally not the Chicago Cubs battling to end a championship drought. The defending champions trail 3-1 to the Los Angeles Dodgers, who haven't appeared in a World Series since 1988 and are one win away from parlaying their astounding 104-58 record into a Fall Classic berth.
With that in mind, here is a look at the World Series schedule, format and odds, as well as a prediction for the eventual matchup.
                
World Series Schedule
Game 1: Tuesday, Oct. 24
Game 2: Wednesday, Oct. 25
Game 3: Friday, Oct. 27
Game 4: Saturday, Oct. 28
Game 5*: Sunday, Oct. 29
Game 6*: Tuesday, Oct. 31
Game 7*: Wednesday, Nov. 1
*If necessary
Schedule information is per MLB.com. The start times are to be determined, but all games will be televised on Fox.
                  
World Series Format

Unfortunately for the American League representatives, the All-Star Game no longer determines home-field advantage in the World Series.
While the AL won this year's midsummer classic, the Astros or Yankees won't see the benefits of that in the World Series. Instead, the team with the best record will host Games 1 and 2, as well as Games 6 and 7, if necessary.
The rule change comes after the All-Star Game determining home-field advantage ironically worked somewhat in the Cubs favor last year despite the American League winning the game. They were able to play Kyle Schwarber—who was returning from injury and not cleared to play the outfield—four times in the designated hitter spot in the AL stadium and ultimately won the series over the Cleveland Indians.
The Dodgers (104-58) would enjoy home-field advantage against either the 101-61 Astros or the 91-71 Yankees. Chicago (92-70) would have it in a potential Cubs-Yankees matchup, while Houston would have home field if it faced its former NL Central rival.
                 
World Series Odds
The most up-to-date World Series odds published on OddsShark on Wednesday at 1 p.m. ET are as follows:
Los Angeles Dodgers: -110 (0.9-1)
Houston Astros: +225 (2.25-1)
New York Yankees: +350 (3.5-1)
Chicago Cubs: +5,000 (50-1)
               
Predicted Matchup

The prediction here is the Dodgers will face the Yankees in the World Series, and it comes down to their respective pitching.
That's not to say the likes of Justin Verlander, Jon Lester and Kyle Hendricks are not formidable for the Astros and Cubs, but Los Angeles and New York simply have the better options at this point in the season.
The Dodgers need one win with a starting trio of Clayton Kershaw, Rich Hill and Yu Darvish. Kershaw is arguably the best pitcher in his generation, Hill silenced the Cubs' bats in his last start by allowing one earned run while striking out eight in five innings and Darvish gave up just one run while striking out seven in 6.1 innings in his first start this series.
All Los Angeles needs is one of those starters to take the lead into the seventh, and the likes of Brandon Morrow and Kenley Jansen will close the series.
The Yankees will turn to Luis Severino in Game 6, but this postseason has been about their bullpen since the AL Wild Card Game victory over the Minnesota Twins. The bullpen combined to get every out but one in that contest, allowing the New York offense to overcome an early 3-0 deficit and advance.
It has been more of the same in this series against the Astros, as the foursome of David Robertson, Chad Green, Tommy Kahnle and Aroldis Chapman have proven too much for opposing hitters.
Kahnle sports a 0.00 ERA in the postseason, Chapman has been his typical shutdown self with just one earned run allowed in eight playoff innings, Green hasn't given up an earned run in four innings against Houston and Robertson has allowed a mere two runs in 11 postseason innings.
The group has been a weapon for manager Joe Girardi to shorten games and will hold onto a lead through the middle and late innings in one of the two potential showdowns in Houston.



There's nothing quite like playoff baseball, and there is no denying the fact that the American League and National League Championship Series have lived up to their advanced billing thus far.
The four biggest markets in the United States are in the mix to reach the World Series, and both series have featured wild momentum swings creating doubt regarding precisely what Fall Classic fans will bear witness to.
Here is a rundown of the remaining schedule for both the ALCS and NLCS, as well as predictions for which team will prevail in each series.
      
ALCS Schedule (Yankees lead 3-2)
Game 6: Friday, Oct. 20 at 8:08 p.m. ET, Yankees at Astros
Game 7 (if necessary): Saturday, Oct. 21 at 8:08 p.m. ET, Yankees at Astros
     
NLCS Schedule (Dodgers lead 3-1)
Game 5: Thursday, Oct. 19 at 8:08 p.m. ET, Dodgers at Cubs
Game 6 (if necessary): Saturday, Oct. 21 at 4:08 p.m. ET, Cubs at Dodgers
Game 7 (if necessary): Sunday, Oct. 22 at 7:38 p.m. ET, Cubs at Dodgers
     
Astros vs. Yankees Predictions
Much like in the ALDS against the Cleveland Indians, the New York Yankees appeared to be dead in the water in the ALCS after falling behind 2-0 to the Houston Astros.
A trip to the Big Apple cured all of the Yanks' ills, however, and they now hold a 3-2 series advantage with the action shifting back to Houston.
New York has momentum firmly on its side following an 8-1 win in Game 3, a stirring 6-4 win in Game 4 that saw it erase a 4-0 deficit late and a 5-0 triumph in Game 5.
As pointed out by ESPN Stats & Info, though, the Yankees have been a much different team home and away during this postseason:
Good news: the #Yankees won 3 straight in the Bronx and lead the ALCS 3-2

Bad news: they have played like a different team away from home https://t.co/6s1OMibqkH
They have the advantage of needing just one win in two opportunities, but the Bronx Bombers will be faced with a huge challenge in Game 6 in the form of Astros starting pitcher Justin Verlander.
Verlander shut the Yanks down in Game 2 to the tune of a complete-game, five-hit, one-walk, one-run, 13-strikeout performance.
Although the Astros' prolific offense has plated just nine runs in five games thus far, they aren't likely to need many runs in Game 6 if Verlander turns in a similar showing.
Houston has a leg up in Game 6 despite the do-or-die situation, but it would shift back to the Yankees' favor in a potential Game 7.
While the Yanks are 1-4 on the road during the playoffs, that one win was a huge one with New York beating the Indians in Game 5 of the ALDS to advance.
Also, Yanks third baseman Todd Frazier somewhat downplayed Houston's home-field advantage in comparison to what New York experienced at Yankee Stadium, per Joe Rivera of Sporting News:
Todd Frazier on atmosphere in Houston: "They're loud, they're loud. But it's nothing like New York." #Yankees #Astros #ALCS
The Game 7 pitching matchup isn't yet set in stone, but the Yankees would almost certainly utilize CC Sabathia with the Astros likely turning to Charlie Morton.
Houston could go with Lance McCullers Jr. on short rest, but based on its bullpen's struggles, that would be a significant risk.
New York battered Morton for seven runs in 3.2 innings in Game 3, while Sabathia went six strong, allowing just three hits and no runs.
Sabathia is no stranger to high-pressure situations in the playoffs, and he has pitched great in the 2017 postseason thus far with a 2.30 ERA and .186 batting average against.
Also, if either Game 6 or Game 7 becomes a bullpen game, it gives the Yanks a significant upper hand.
With so much tilted in New York's favor at this juncture, the pieces are in place for a Game 7 win and 41st trip to the World Series in franchise history.
     
Dodgers vs. Cubs Predictions
The reigning World Series champion Chicago Cubs lived to fight another day Wednesday when they defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers in Game 4 of the NLCS and staved off elimination.
Still, Chicago is in dire straits needing three more wins in a row to have an opportunity to defend its World Series title.
One thing that bodes well for the Cubs is the fact that they have come through in the clutch with their backs against the wall dating back to last year's playoffs, according to ESPN Stats & Info:
The Cubs are 5-0 in elimination games since the start of the 2016 postseason. 

4 of those wins, including tonight's, were by 1 run.
Joe Maddon's club plays its best when the stakes are highest, but the Dodgers have been a well-oiled machine to this point.
Wednesday marked their first loss of the playoffs, and it was only a one-run margin of defeat despite Cubs shortstop Javier Baez's heroics with two home runs.
On top of that, the Cubs burned their only reliable bullpen option in Game 4 with closer Wade Davis going two innings and throwing 48 pitches.
That means Chicago will have to find other options late in Game 5 unless starter Jose Quintana is able to go the distance.
A complete game is unlikely against the Dodgers' lineup, however, considering how patient they have been at the plate throughout the series, per Ned Colletti of SportsNet LA:
Still in control of the series, @Dodgers hitters have 26 walks and struck out 32 times; meanwhile, they have walked 4 and K'd 43 Cubs.
Ace Clayton Kershaw's playoff struggles are no secret, but the Dodgers are in a good spot with their perennial Cy Young Award candidate on the mound in Game 5 with a chance to punch their ticket to the World Series for the first time since 1988.
Los Angeles can play free and easy in Game 5 knowing it will have two more chances to close out the series at home in the event of a loss Thursday.
Giving the Cubs any hope is a dangerous proposition, though, as the Indians learned after taking a 3-1 lead in the World Series last year.
With Kershaw on the bump and the likes of Justin Turner, Chris Taylor and Yasiel Puig swinging hot bats for the Dodgers, however, they will take care of business at Wrigley Field in Game 5 and await the winner of the ALCS.



The World Series may seem like a long way away, but in reality it begins on Tuesday in the stadium of the team with the best record remaining. 
Although Game 1 of the Fall Classic is less than a week away, there's still plenty to be determined in the ALCS and NLCS between now and Sunday, when Game 7 of the NLCS is set to take place if needed. 
Until then, all we can do is dream about what potential showdowns we'll see throughout the World Series. 
                 
World Series Schedule
Game 1: Tuesday, October 24, Time TBD, Fox
Game 2: Wednesday, October 25, Time TBD, Fox
Game 3: Friday, October 27, Time TBD, Fox
Game 4: Saturday, October 28, Time TBD, Fox
Game 5: Sunday, October 29, Time TBD, Fox
Game 6: Tuesday, October 31, Time TBD, Fox
Game 7: Wednesday, November 1, Time TBD, Fox
              
Potential Pitching Matchups
Clayton Kershaw vs. Justin Verlander
There aren't many potential pitching matchups in the World Series that would stir up more hype than one featuring two of the premier arms of this generation.
Clayton Kershaw would be making his first career start in the World Series after suffering through years of postseason heartbreak in Los Angeles. Since entering the majors in 2008, Kershaw is 144-64 in the regular season but just 5-7 in the postseason. He's also recorded 200 or more strikeouts in seven of his last eight seasons. 

Justin Verlander, who moved to Houston from Detroit in August, carried plenty of World Series experience into 2017, but just because he's pitched in a Fall Classic doesn't mean he's had success. Verlander is 0-3 in three World Series starts. With that in mind, as well as helping Houston to a championship, he'd have plenty of motivation to thrive on the mound. 
Kershaw is starting on Thursday in NLCS Game 5 for the Dodgers, while Verlander will take the mound in Friday's ALCS Game 6 for the Astros. Although it might not be a Game 1 showdown, there's a decent chance these two could face later in the series. 
                
Jon Lester vs. C.C. Sabathia
Another potential clash of generational greats could come if the Yankees and Cubs both advance to the World Series. 
Jon Lester has the most postseason experience of any active pitcher with 148 innings over eight postseasons. The left-hander boasts an impressive 4-1 World Series record, which is the crown jewel of his 9-7 overall record in the postseason. 
Sabathia isn't far behind Lester in postseason innings, as he's tossed 123 to go along with his 10-5 postseason record over eight postseasons. However, Sabathia only has an 0-1 mark in a pair of World Series starts. 

The potential of this matchup is dependent on the next four days of postseason baseball. Sabathia could either come back to start Game 7 of the ALCS or play a role in relief, while Lester would have to make at least one more start in Los Angeles if the Cubs pull off a miraculous comeback. 
             
Dallas Keuchel vs. Yu Darvish 
If the Astros come back from their 3-2 deficit against the Yankees, they'll most likely send Dallas Keuchel to the mound in Game 1 of the World Series barring a potential appearance in relief on Friday and Saturday. 
Before Wednesday's ALCS Game 5 defeat, Keuchel was lights out in the postseason for the Astros. The left-hander would love nothing more than to rectify his poor performance on Wednesday at the start of one of the most meaningful series in franchise history. 

If Kershaw gets stretched to the max in Game 5, or if the Dodgers close the NLCS out in six games, there's a decent chance Yu Darvish would get the ball for Game 1 of the World Series on a full week of rest. Darvish joined the Dodgers specifically to win a championship, and he has plenty of familiarity with the Astros lineup from his time with the Texas Rangers. 
           
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90.
All statistics obtained from baseball-reference.com.



It was not pretty, but the Chicago Cubs staved off elimination and remain alive to defend their World Series crown.
A stressful eighth inning saw the Los Angeles Dodgers close the gap in Wednesday's Game 4, but the Cubs survived to force one more game at Wrigley Field in the National League Championship Series. Now they will try to get another starting performance like the one Jake Arrieta tossed in Game 4 to try to move the series back to Los Angeles.
Is that plausible? Perhaps, but familiar issues still exist for Chicago. With that in mind, here is how you can catch the rest of the NLCS action, with OddsShark.com providing the latest chances each will go all the way.
            
Series Odds
Cubs: 50-1
Dodgers: 91-100
                    
Game 5
When: Thursday, Oct. 19 at 8 p.m. ET
Television: TBS
Live Stream: TBS Live
          
Game 6*
When: Saturday, Oct. 21 at 4 p.m.
Television: TBS
Live Stream: TBS Live
Game 7*
When: Sunday, Oct. 22 at 7:30 p.m.
Television: TBS
Live Stream: TBS Live
         
Game 5 Preview
If not for Arrieta, this series could already be over.
The righty was nearly perfect in Game 4, allowing just three hits over 6.2 innings. His lone blemish was leaving one pitch up in the zone for Cody Bellinger to go yard in the third frame.
Unless the Cubs can get similar production out of Jose Quintana in Game 5 with an extra inning or two of work, they could be trouble.
Offense is still a serious problem for Chicago in the NLCS, as they have only scored seven runs thus far. The team is not generating enough hits to get men on base, which has resulted in all seven of those runs coming off of home runs, including five solo shots.
As Christopher Kamka of NBC Sports Chicago pointed out, consistently getting on base has been the death of the Cubs' lineup:
#Cubs postseason batting average
First 8 games:  .172
Tonight (5-29): .172
They won, so whatever
Perhaps the most troubling thing from this series
#Dodgers batters:  26 Walks, 32 Strikeouts
#Cubs batters:         4 Walks, 43 Strikeouts
A lack of offensive support has left the glaring weakness of relief pitching exposed. The Cubs bullpen has given up a porous eight earned runs in just 13.1 NLCS innings, including 13 walks. To make matters worse, the team's most reliable reliever, Wade Davis, is coming off a 48-pitch save on Wednesday, which likely makes him unavailable for Game 5.
If all of that is not enough reason for Quintana—who owns an excellent 1.59 ERA this postseason but allowed both of his runs in the Game 1 loss—to throw the game of his life, then adding in Clayton Kershaw on the other side certainly suffices.
With a 2.36 ERA in 10 seasons, Kershaw is the greatest pitcher of this generation, but he has lost his dominance in the postseason. In 100.1 career playoff frames, his ERA is a pedestrian 4.57, and he has not been great in 2017, with six runs allowed in 11.1 innings. That includes two runs in five innings in a Dodgers comeback 5-2 victory in Game 1.
In fact, the Cubs franchise has had Kershaw's number throughout his career, per ESPN's Jesse Rogers:
11 career home runs off Kershaw by Cubs hitters, most of any team not in the NL west.
Still, this is Kershaw, and he should strike fear into any lineup he faces. He is also pitching with much more room for error than Quintana, considering the Dodgers' bullpen has allowed just three hits and no runs over 14 innings in the NLCS.
Even if Kershaw allows a run or two, he should still be fine. Los Angeles' two runs were its lowest output of the postseason, as the Dodgers are averaging just under four runs a game this postseason. Having Justin Turner put up MVP-caliber numbers also helps.
In 26 at-bats this postseason, Turner is hitting .423 with three homers and 11 RBI to go with six walks. He's kept in going in the NLCS, batting .385 with two homers and six RBI.
This is no fluke for Turner, who is among the greatest playoff hitters in MLB history, per ESPN:
No one in MLB history has had a higher postseason OBP than Justin Turner. https://t.co/f4FwugVxsp
Everything about this series has pointed to the Dodgers advancing, especially now since only the 2004 Boston Red Sox have ever come back from a 0-3 deficit. Los Angeles is getting much better hitting and pitching on a consistent basis, while the hostile confines of Wrigley Field have not had much of an effect. The team owned the NL's second-best road record this season, and it already took a game in Chicago while nearly coming back in Game 4.
Look for Kershaw to throw at least six solid innings to allow the bullpen to close it down. Quintana has only thrown at least seven innings three times since joining the Cubs in July, and he will be hard-pressed to do so in Game 5 against such a potent Dodgers lineup.
Expect Los Angeles to take advantage of the Chicago bullpen late, thus securing a trip to the World Series.
        
Statistics are courtesy of MLB.com unless otherwise noted.



Winning on the road in the postseason isn't easy in any sport, and the New York Yankees and Chicago Cubs proved on Wednesday night they can create magic at home once again in October. 
The Yankees jumped ahead of the Houston Astros in the ALCS with a Game 5 victory at Yankee Stadium, while the Cubs live to fight another day after a Game 4 win over the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
While the ALCS shifts scenery again back to Houston, the Dodgers and Cubs are set for a fantastic Game 5 on Thursday. 
Here's all you need to know heading into the final four days of the league championship series.
            
TV Schedule
ALCS 
Game 6: Yankees at Astros; Friday, October 20, 8:08 p.m. ET, FS1
Game 7 (if necessary): Yankees at Astros; Saturday, October 21, 8:08 p.m. ET, FS1
NLCS
Game 5: Dodgers at Cubs; Thursday, October 19, 8:08 p.m. ET, TBS
Game 6 (if necessary): Cubs at Dodgers; Saturday, October 21, 4:08 p.m. ET, TBS
Game 7 (if necessary): Cubs at Dodgers; Sunday, October 22, 7:38 p.m. ET, TBS
                
Highlights and Stats
The Yankees are headed to Houston with all the momentum after winning three straight games at Yankee Stadium. 
With one more victory, they will become the first team to come back from an 0-2 deficit in the first two rounds of the postseason since the 1985 Kansas City Royals, per Jayson Stark on Twitter: 
The Yankees are one win from becoming the 1st team since the '85 Royals to come back from an 0-2 hole to win 2 straight series. . .
A major reason for the success of the Yankees is the awakening of the bats in the middle of the order. Aaron Judge and Gary Sanchez have come up with a few clutch hits over the last three days. 
Over in the other dugout, the Astros' key players have seen their hot streaks dry up at the worst time. WFAN's Sweeny Murti displayed the disparity between the stars in each lineup: 
Altuve &amp; Correa 8-for-15 Gms 1-2, just 2-for-22 Gms 3-5. 

Judge &amp; Sanchez 1-for-14 Gms 1-2, 7-for-20 with 3 HR, 3 doubles, 11 RBI Gms 3-5.
Now the focus shifts back to Minute Maid Park for Friday. Justin Verlander will start for the Astros, while Luis Severino will take the mound for the Yankees.
Severino talked to YES Network about having the chance to clinch a World Series berth: 
Luis Severino faces a Game 6 rematch vs. Justin Verlander, but this time, he'll have a chance to send his team to the World Series. https://t.co/DvTGLkvbI7
Clayton Kershaw will be in the same position as Severino in Game 5 of the NLCS on Thursday, as he looks to keep the series from going back to Dodger Stadium. 
The Cubs stayed alive on Wednesday night thanks to three solo home runs, two of which came off the bat of Javier Baez. MLB's official Twitter account gave us a look at both of his homers: 
Javy’s heating up. #NLCS https://t.co/rrriTojl5C
Although Baez broke out in a major way on Wednesday, there's still one bat in the Cubs order that hasn't gotten going in the postseason. If the Cubs send the series back to California, they'll need a contribution from Anthony Rizzo, who is 1-for-13 in the NLCS. 
Another concern for the Cubs is the usage of closer Wade Davis, who threw two innings to finish off the Game 4 victory.
USA Today's Bob Nightengale highlighted how overworked Davis has been so far in the NLCS: 
Wade Davis has now thrown 88 pitches in his last two relief outings.,
Despite losing Game 4, the Dodgers still have faith Kershaw will get the job done on Thursday night. However, he'll have to reverse his record in the NLCS. The southpaw is 1-4 all time in NLCS starts and 5-7 overall in the postseason. 
No matter what the numbers say, Dodgers manager Dave Roberts is still confident in his team, per 670 The Score: 
Dodgers manager Dave Roberts: "I can't speak to [the Cubs'] mindset but I still like the position we're in."
Regardless of how both series end up, there's certain to be plenty of postseason drama over the next four days. 
                 
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90.
All statistics obtained from baseball-reference.com.



Momentum meant nothing to the New York Yankees when they returned home to the Bronx after losing the first two games of the American League Championship Series.
They solved their offensive woes and won three straight games to take command of the ALCS and put the Houston Astros on the brink of elimination.
The Astros would like to pay the Yankees back in kind as they return to Minute Maid Park for Game 6. If they can win that game with power pitcher Justin Verlander on the mound, they will force a seventh and decisive game.
Game 6 is scheduled for Friday at 8 p.m. ET, and the game will be televised by FS1. The game can be live-streamed at MLB.TV.
Luis Severino was the Yankees' best pitcher during the regular season, and he will get the start for this potential clinching game. 
The Astros are minus-134 favorites in Game 6, while the Yankees are plus-124 underdogs, at the time of writing, per OddsShark.
Yankees turn to Luis Severino in Game 6 with chance to clinch World Series berth
https://t.co/GcCqEk4yQb https://t.co/HuSuVx9jM8
Severino pitched four innings in Game 2 before he was removed from the game. The Yankees had concerns about his shoulder because Severino was windmilling his arm in his final inning of that appearance, and those concerns were answered in a bullpen session prior to Wednesday's fifth game.
The pitcher had said that there was no problem with his arm, and his throwing session went well. 
"From the beginning, I said there was no problem and that I didn't feel anything," Severino said, per Dan Martin and Ken Davidoff of the New York Post. "I threw today and felt 100 percent."
Verlander appeared to be at the top of his game when he pitched the Astros to a 2-0 lead in the series by throwing a complete game Sunday. Verlander struck out 13, walked one and gave up five hits. He was in charge from start to finish, and he may have to be just as good or better if the Astros are going to force a seventh game.
When the Yankees were in Houston, they were not hitting well and their offense was limping along. Aaron Judge and Gary Sanchez broke out of slumps at Yankee Stadium, and they have helped turn the series in the Yankees' favor.
Sanchez drove in the winning runs in Game 4 with a line drive double to right-center field, and he belted his third home run of the playoffs and added a single in Game 5.
CRUSHED! GARY SANCHEZ!

Solo HR, @Yankees take the 5-0 lead.  https://t.co/Gz5PaIFnou
"The key is simple: Do not swing at bad pitches," Sanchez said through a translator to Zach Braziller of the New York Post. "The first two at-bats, I struck out, and they were bad pitches. I told myself, 'Hey, stop doing that, look for good pitches to hit, make sure you get good contact.'
"If you stop swinging at bad pitches, make sure you swing at good pitches, good things are going to happen."
If Game 7 is necessary, it will be played Saturday, Oct. 21 in Houston at 8 p.m. ET.
                
Prediction
The Yankees could not find their offense in the first two games of the series and found themselves in an 0-2 hole when they came home to Yankee Stadium.
While the Astros were hopeful of making the ALCS a short series and clinching the pennant in New York, that did not happen. The Yankees started to hit the ball and the Astros have lost their offense. They were held to one run in a 2-1 Game 3 loss and were blanked 5-0 in Game 5.
They had a 4-0 lead in Game 4, but they could not hold that lead as the Yankees rallied for a 6-4 victory.
The Astros have to figure out Severino and find their offense quickly, and Verlander must continue to throw in lights-out fashion.
Look for the Astros to play with the same desperation at Minute Maid Park that their opponents demonstrated at Yankee Stadium.
The Astros will win and force a Game 7.



The MLB postseason is a small sample size in the grand scheme of things—a one-month event with regular off days for a sport whose regular season stretches six months and 162 games.
However, how a player performs in that brief time frame can have a profound effect on his earning power.
Whether it's an upcoming free agent impacting his stock on the open market or an arbitration-eligible player further building his case for the bargaining table, October baseball can make a world of difference.
With that in mind, we've taken a quick run through the players who have earned and lost the most money as a result of the postseason, as well as a few notable guys whose stock remains largely unchanged.

What will Masahiro Tanaka do about his opt-out clause?
It's one of the biggest questions hanging over the MLB offseason and an unavoidable talking point after he turned in another dominant performance on Wednesday night.
The 28-year-old has three years and $67 million left on his current deal, and he's coming off a regular season where he went 13-12 with a 4.74 ERA and 1.24 WHIP in 178.1 innings.
That included a pair of brutal September starts where he allowed a combined 14 earned runs in 9.1 innings.
However, he's looked every bit the part of staff ace this postseason.
Will that be enough for teams to overlook an inconsistent regular season—and the fact he's still pitching with that partially torn UCL—to give him a huge payday?
That's the question he'll need to answer when the postseason wraps up, and it makes him the big wild card in this conversation.

Justin Wilson has made one appearance this postseason in what was essentially mop-up duty in Game 4 of the NLDS.
That's not what the Cubs envisioned when they acquired him from the Detroit Tigers at the deadline.
The 30-year-old was enjoying the best season of his career at the time of the trade, and he had taken over the closer's role following the struggles and eventual release of veteran Francisco Rodriguez.
With those stellar numbers and team control through the 2018 season, the Cubs gave up highly regarded prospects Jeimer Candelario and Isaac Paredes in that trade, thinking they were getting a guy who could step into a setup role immediately and perhaps serve as the closer next season.
What they got was someone who completely forgot how to throw strikes.
That 9.7 BB/9 mark isn't a typo, he walked 19 hitters in 17.2 innings after the trade.
He's projected for a $4.3 million salary next season, up from $2.7 million this year, but the team's complete lack of faith in him this postseason—especially considering the current state of the bullpen—won't help his cause at the bargaining table.

Wade Davis is the top closer option on the free-agent market and there's nothing he could have done this offseason to change that perception.
With a faltering relief corps crumbling around him, he's already been asked to nail down a seven-out save in Game 5 of the NLDS and a six-out save with the team again facing elimination in Game 4 of the NLCS.
He's answered the bell both times and kept the Cubs' season alive in the process.
Still, little has changed as far as his free-agent stock is concerned.
Davis is three years older than Kenley Jansen and Aroldis Chapman were when they hit the open market last offseason and landed five-year deals of $80 million and $86 million, respectively.
Chances are that will limit his next contract to four years with a little room to negotiate up from the four-year, $60 million deal that Mark Melancon signed with the San Francisco Giants.
Will the Cubs be willing to pay that price, or is he headed elsewhere?

Tony Watson had established himself as one of the best left-handed relievers in the game heading into 2017.
Over the previous three seasons, he posted a 2.16 ERA, 1.01 WHIP and 8.2 K/9 while recording 98 holds and 18 saves in 225 appearances.
With Mark Melancon and Neftali Feliz both gone, the closer's job was his to lose, and he had a chance to significantly boost his stock heading into free agency.
Instead, he converted just 10 of 15 save chances with a 4.28 ERA before being removed from the ninth-inning gig in early June.
The 32-year-old got things back on track after returning to a setup role and was eventually traded to the Dodgers, where he was lights out down the stretch with a 0.61 ERA, 0.95 WHIP and five holds in his final 17 appearances.
Despite allowing two runs in Game 2 of the NLDS, he's looked sharp this postseason, and he's retired all seven batters he's faced in the NLCS.
He's not going to get closer money, but his stellar finish to the regular season and strong showing this October puts him in a good position to exceed the four-year, $30.5 million deal Brett Cecil signed with the St. Louis Cardinals last offseason.

This situation is all about missed opportunity, not poor performance.
Jonathan Lucroy might have been looking at the five-year, $82 million deal Russell Martin signed with the Toronto Blue Jays as his floor in contract negotiations if he had hit the open market last offseason.
Instead, he saw a precipitous drop in offensive production in his contract year.
However, a change of scenery appeared to do him good as he joined the Colorado Rockies at the deadline and posted a 115 OPS+ with 11 extra-base hits in 175 plate appearances the rest of the way.
Taking that a step further, he was red-hot down the stretch with a .481/.611/.704 line in his last 10 regular season games, and he went 2-for-3 with a pair of doubles in the Wild Card Game.
Had his season not come to an abrupt halt prior to the Division Series, he might have been on his way to a huge postseason performance.
While a strong showing in the small sample size that is the playoffs doesn't generally move the needle much when it comes to established veterans, it could have done wonders for Lucroy's stock.
He's still the top catcher on the market and a safe bet for a multi-year deal, but the Rockies' early exit cost him valuable audition time while he was swinging a hot bat.

J.D. Martinez cemented his status as the biggest bat on the upcoming free-agent market with a historically good run following his trade to the Arizona Diamondbacks.
In 62 games with the team, he posted a 1.107 OPS with 29 home runs and 65 RBI, bringing his season totals to 45 home runs and 104 RBI, despite the fact he missed time early and only played 119 games overall.
Nothing he did this offseason was going to have a significant impact on his stock one way or the other and the D-backs' early exit from the playoffs only furthered that sentiment.
After a 0-for-4 showing in the Wild Card Game, he went 4-for-11 with a home run while the team was swept in three games by the Dodgers in the NLDS.
Expect a deal north of $100 million and far exceeding what any other free-agent outfielder earns this winter.

Didi Gregorius was already going to receive a hefty raise in arbitration after putting together a career year offensively.
In his third season with the Yankees, the 27-year-old set new personal bests in batting average (.287), OPS (.796), home runs (25), RBI (87), runs scored (73) and WAR (3.7).
He also spent much of the second half of the season hitting in the cleanup spot in the batting order, as the team began counting on him more and more as a steady run producer.
After earning $2.425 million and $5.1 million in his first two years of arbitration, he is projected for another healthy raise to $9 million this time around.
Might that figure climb even higher if he continues his strong postseason showing?
Starting with a first-inning home run in the Wild Card Game, he's hitting .275/.383/.575 with five extra-base hits—including three home runs—and seven RBI in 11 postseason games.
Given his age and steadily improving offensive game, he may also be a candidate for an extension as the Yankees continue to build toward a sustainable future.

Brad Peacock began spring training on the roster bubble and spent most of the first two months of the season pitching out of the bullpen.
However, by season's end, he was throwing the ball well enough out of the starting rotation to earn the Game 3 start over Charlie Morton and Lance McCullers Jr. in the ALDS.
All told, he went 13-2 with a 3.00 ERA, 1.19 WHIP and 161 strikeouts in 132 innings, but his split roles make him a tricky case in his first year of arbitration.
What is his role going forward: Starter? Reliever? Swingman?
Tim Dierkes of MLBTradeRumors projected a $2.9 million salary figure, which puts him in the same tier as guys such as Mike Foltynewicz ($2.7 million), J.C. Ramirez ($2.6 million), Kendall Graveman ($2.6 million) among other first-time starting pitchers.
With a strong postseason, he might have been able to move up a tier.
Instead, he lasted just 2.2 innings in his ALDS start, and the Astros opted to go with McCullers in his place in the ALCS rotation.

A September hamstring injury and a shaky NLDS start are easily forgotten when Jake Arrieta flashes the plus-plus stuff he had on Wednesday night.
With the Cubs facing elimination, the 2015 Cy Young winner allowed just three hits and one earned run while striking out nine over 6.2 innings.
Even before that strong start, it's unlikely he had cost himself any money with a minor injury and one short outing. Now he looks to be right back where he was heading into September—a safe bet for a five-year deal in excess of $100 million.
The same goes for Yu Darvish.
The 31-year-old went 2-0 with a 0.47 ERA over his final three starts of the regular season and that has carried over to the postseason.
He's allowed eight hits and two runs over 11.1 innings in two starts, walking one and striking out 14.
However, performance was never the question with Darvish.
It's the fact he has 2,127.2 innings under his belt at the professional level—including his time in Japan—that might scare teams away from giving him big money this winter.
By comparison, Arrieta only has 1,669 innings on his arm.
Regardless of how they performed this October, nothing short of a significant injury was going to keep these two from getting paid as the two best arms on the market.

CC Sabathia quietly put together his best season since 2014, going 14-5 with a 3.69 ERA and 1.27 WHIP in 148.2 innings.
The 37-year-old was going to have to take a pay cut next year regardless. No one in their right mind would give him $25 million at this point in his career.
However, in a thin market for starting pitching—especially lefties—his strong showing this postseason could go a long way in expanding his field of suitors.
After tossing a pair of no-decisions in the ALDS where he kept his team in the game but failed to finish six innings, Sabathia was brilliant in Game 3 of the ALCS, allowing just three hits over six scoreless innings.
He's learned how to pitch with lesser stuff and his balky knee looks as healthy as it's been in years.
After seeing the money given to R.A. Dickey (one-year, $7.5 million with an $8 million option) and Bartolo Colon (one-year, $12.5 million) last winter, he should have no trouble securing at least one more decent payday.
          
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, unless otherwise noted.



The Los Angeles Dodgers failed to punch their World Series ticket on Wednesday. Up 3-0 in their National League Championship Series matchup with the Chicago Cubs, the Dodgers lost 3-2 at Wrigley Field.
It was Los Angeles' first loss of the 2017 postseason, and the champion Cubbies live to fight another day.
That day is slated for Thursday on the North Side, when Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw will toe the slab. It isn't a must-win for L.A. They technically get three more tries. 
It is, however, a must-dominate for Kershaw if he wants to erase his past playoff failures.
First, to stipulate: The Dodgers left-hander has been the best pitcher in baseball over the past seven seasons. Since 2011, he's led all pitchers with 47.4 WAR, per FanGraphs, while winning three NL Cy Young Awards and an MVP. 
It's a Hall of Fame resume, and the guy's only 29 years old.
In October, meanwhile, Kershaw's record is decidedly bumpier. In 100.1 postseason innings, he owns a 5-7 record and 4.57 ERA. In two mediocre starts in the 2017 playoffs, he has surrendered five home runs in 11.1 frames.
It's tempting to joke that Kershaw and pumpkins have something in common—they both get carved up in October.
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
Yes, he's had his moments, including a gritty relief effort in the 2016 division series against the Washington Nationals. But the Dodgers have never advanced past the National League Championship Series on his watch.
In fact, they haven't made it past the NLCS since 1988, the year Kershaw was born.
That historic malaise can't be blamed on the Dodgers ace. The last several years can, however. When the lights get bright, Kershaw all too often turns into a ho-hum performer. 

Is it mental? That's tough to diagnose, but listen to the man himself prior to the Cubs' Game 4 victory, via Daryl Van Schouwen of the Chicago Sun-Times:
"Yeah, it's a tough spot for me just because I have to prepare to start [Game 5]. I can't assume we're going to win and then it just so happens I have to pitch. I have to expect to pitch and then be surprised when we win. 
"It's a tough spot because, obviously, I believe in our team and I believe that we can win tonight. But I can't let myself mentally go there. But we'll see."
Spoken like a guy who...believes in himself?
Back in 2014, Madison Bumgarner famously took the San Francisco Giants on his back and carried them to the confetti-strewn promised land. That example will rile Dodgers fans, but it's apt. 
Kershaw, another top-shelf lefty from the NL West, has been unable to do the same. Here's his chance, served on a platter. Bon appetit.
Last season, the Dodgers' playoff run ended at Wrigley Field. Kershaw coughed up a pair of homers and four earned runs in five innings and took the loss.

Almost a year later, he can avenge that defeat and author a new autumn legacy. 
"I wouldn't say that the pressure is on us," manager Dave Roberts said, per Bill Plaschke of the Los Angeles Times. "I think that we're in a pretty good spot. We've got our No. 1 pitcher going tomorrow, and we've got two of the guys at the back end [of the bullpen] rested."
It's telling Roberts referenced setup man Brandon Morrow and closer Kenley Jansen, neither of whom pitched Wednesday. 
They've been rock-solid in the playoffs. Kershaw, as usual, has wobbled. His 4.76 ERA fits better with a No. 5 starter than a man who signed a $215 million contract in 2014.
Roberts surely believes in his ace, but he feels the need to qualify. That says it all.
All of the past disappointments will be erased, however, if he can put together one start for the ages. One start that reaches the breathtaking heights the best pitcher in baseball shows on a nightly basis from April through September.
Put the final nail in the Cubs' coffin Thursday night, and you're no longer the guy who couldn't get it done in the big game. You're the guy who finally ended the drought.
It'll be a big deal for the Dodgers if they punch their World Series ticket Thursday. If Kershaw gets the W, that might be even bigger.
And that really says it all.
         
All statistics current as of Wednesday and courtesy of FanGraphs and Baseball Reference.



A World Series showdown between the 104-58 Los Angeles Dodgers and 101-61 Houston Astros appeared inevitable when they each won their first two games in the respective league championship series, but the New York Yankees and Chicago Cubs had other plans.
New York has come storming back against the Astros with three straight home wins in the American League Championship Series to seize control heading back to Houston, while Chicago remained alive with a dramatic 3-2 win over the Dodgers in Game 4 of the National League Championship Series.
Now the Bronx Bombers are one win away from clinching their spot in the Fall Classic, while Los Angeles finds itself in a similar situation with a 3-1 advantage in the NLCS.
With that in mind, here is a look at the 2017 World Series schedule, as well as a prediction for the matchup.
              
2017 World Series Schedule
Game 1: Tuesday, Oct. 24
Game 2: Wednesday, Oct. 25
Game 3: Friday, Oct. 27
Game 4: Saturday, Oct. 28
Game 5*: Sunday, Oct. 29
Game 6*: Tuesday, Oct. 31
Game 7*: Wednesday, Nov. 1
*If necessary
The schedule information is per MLB.com. All games will be televised on Fox, with the start times to be determined. Tickets will be available on StubHub.
            
Matchup Prediction

The Dodgers still have the inside path to their first World Series appearance since 1988, but ESPN Stats & Info highlighted the fact they shouldn't take the defending champions lightly:
The Cubs are 5-0 in elimination games since the start of the 2016 postseason. 

4 of those wins, including tonight's, were by 1 run.
Chicago overcame a 3-1 deficit in last year's World Series against the Cleveland Indians and will have to do the same against Los Angeles, but the Indians didn't have the likes of Clayton Kershaw, Rich Hill and Yu Darvish lined up in need of just one victory.
As if that wasn't daunting enough, Cubs manager Joe Maddon said All-Star closer Wade Davis wouldn't be available for Thursday's Game 5 after he threw 48 pitches in Wednesday's two-inning save, per Chris Emma of 670 The Score.
That leaves Chicago facing Kershaw without the services of its best bullpen pitcher. It is not difficult to envision the Dodgers southpaw pitching an effective seven innings and turning the ball over to shutdown closer Kenley Jansen to finish the series with a two-inning save.
As for the American League, Houston still has home-field advantage despite facing a 3-2 deficit. The home team has won every game in this series, and Justin Verlander will take the mound in Friday's Game 6 with the season on the line.
Verlander already threw a complete-game gem in his last outing in this series, allowing a single run and five hits while striking out 13. A repeat performance will push the battle to a decisive Game 7 on Saturday and continue the pattern of the home team taking care of business.
However, a Game 7 situation means it is all-hands-on-deck, and the Bronx Bombers have the significant advantage in the bullpen. According to ESPN.com, New York's bullpen finished with the third-best ERA in the league this season, while Houston's was a mere 17th.
The Astros' bullpen already cost them one game in this series when it couldn't hold a 4-0 advantage in the final three innings of Game 4, otherwise this battle would have a different feel to it as it shifts back to Houston.
Look for the Yankees to seize an early lead in one of the two games in Houston and rely on the combination of Chad Green, David Robertson, Tommy Kahnle and Aroldis Chapman to shorten the contest and clinch the American League pennant on the road.
Predicted World Series matchup: Los Angeles Dodgers vs. New York Yankees



The Chicago Cubs live to fight another day in the 2017 MLB postseason, defeating the Los Angeles Dodgers 3-2 on Wednesday night at Wrigley Field to avoid the sweep and force at least one more night of baseball in the National League Championship Series.
Starting pitcher Jake Arrieta pitched well for Chicago, allowing just one run over 6.2 innings, while two home runs from Javier Baez and a massive solo shot by Willson Contreras off Dodgers starter Alex Wood powered the offense. 
The series will stay in Chicago for Game 5, with the Cubs looking to claw further back in the series and force the Dodgers to try to finish the job in Los Angeles. 
                
Cubs vs. Dodgers: NLCS Game 5 Info
When: Thursday, October 19 at 8:08 p.m. ET
Where: Wrigley Field, Chicago
TV: TBS
Live Stream: TBS.com
Tickets: StubHub
Though the Dodgers failed to clinch the series, the loss was hardly deflating. One run separated them from a win, and key players like Yasiel Puig and Justin Turner managed to stay productive. Another good sign for the team was seeing rookie Cody Bellinger, whose bat has been mostly quiet lately, sock his second home run of the postseason.

The Dodgers will be happy to be rid of Arrieta's darting, diving array of pitches. The 31-year-old was wild throughout, walking five, but he managed to keep the Dodgers off balance for the most part, striking out nine.
The Cubs have had an awful time trying to hit Los Angeles, especially the bullpen, but they were able to get what they needed by taking advantage of Wood's mistakes. Baez, who had no problem making flashy plays defensively, has joined the October party, as his home runs were his first two hits of the postseason.
Baez managed to look cool during the second dinger in the fifth inning, blowing a bubble as he teed off on the pitch, per the Chicago Tribune's Brian Cassella:
Javy Baez blows a bubble while hitting his second home run. #Cubs NLCS Game 4 photos: https://t.co/CZ5ktsTe5L https://t.co/X7yynczc4y
The Cubs will still need a more complete performance from their offense if they are to stave off elimination. Anthony Rizzo and Kris Bryant were a combined 0-for-7 in Game 4; if they can get involved, the Cubs will be in much better shape.
Getting to Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw early in Game 5 will be key, as the team has had no success off the Dodgers' airtight bullpen. Kershaw lasted just five innings against the Cubs in Game 1, but the Cubs managed just two runs, courtesy of an Albert Almora Jr. homer, in that time.
Building up an advantage in the early innings will put the Dodgers on the back foot again, and there are only so many times a team—even one as good as L.A.—can overcome letting the opposition strike first.
If Kershaw proves to be overpowering, the Cubs can always hope to strike late if the Dodgers leave him in too long.
Los Angeles has the maneuverability and depth to cobble together a winning lineup on Thursday. The team got nothing out of Chase Utley, Curtis Granderson and Andre Ethier in Game 4. All three of those players, should manager Dave Roberts see fit, could be swapped out for capable guys like Logan Forsythe, Enrique Hernandez and Joc Pederson.

The Cubs are trotting out Jose Quintana for Game 5, per the New York Times' Tyler Kepner. He had a similar line to Kershaw's in Game 1, allowing two runs on two hits over five innings. It was the Cubs bullpen, which allowed home runs to Chris Taylor and Puig in the sixth and seventh innings, respectively, that let him down.
If the right bats join the likes of Puig, Turner and Bellinger in the lineup, the Dodgers have the firepower to get a win.
One stat that could scare Los Angeles: The Cubs have been excellent, if nerve-racking, in survival mode since the start of last postseason, per ESPN Stats & Info:
The Cubs are 5-0 in elimination games since the start of the 2016 postseason. 

4 of those wins, including tonight's, were by 1 run.
If this team gets to Kershaw early, watch out. 
That said, the pick here is the team that won 104 games in the regular season and has the deep pockets to buy wins in October via contracts in the dead of winter.
Working the count on Quintana and then a good run on the Cubs' shaky bullpen should be enough for Los Angeles to get the ball to the incomparable Kenley Jansen and put the Cubs away, thus sending the Dodgers to their first World Series since 1988.
Pick: Dodgers 5, Cubs 3



Home plate umpire Jim Wolf admitted he made a mistake during the Chicago Cubs' 3-2 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers in Game 4 of the National League Championship Series at Wrigley Field on Wednesday.
According to Jay Cohen of the Associated Press, Wolf told Jim Litke of the AP he watched the replay of what should have been strike three on Curtis Granderson's at-bat in the eighth inning and realized he made a mistake.
Granderson swung and missed at a pitch with two strikes and was initially called out, but he said he foul-tipped it. While the play wasn't reviewable, the umpires huddled and decided to overturn the call and rule it a foul ball.
Chicago manager Joe Maddon came running out of the dugout to protest and was eventually ejected, while the fans at Wrigley Field erupted into a chorus of hostile boos at the poor call.
It was all part of an eventful eighth inning in the do-or-die game for the Cubs.
Maddon turned to All-Star closer Wade Davis for the two-inning save with a 3-1 advantage, but Davis proceeded to allow a solo home run to Justin Turner, walk Yasiel Puig and retire Andre Ethier before the Granderson at-bat. Fortunately for the home fans, Davis struck Granderson out on the ensuing pitch after the controversy and ultimately fanned Chase Utley with two on following a Yasmani Grandal walk.
Davis needed 34 pitches to escape the eighth and threw 48 total, and Maddon said he would be unavailable for Thursday's Game 5, per Chris Emma of 670 The Score.
While Cubs fans were surely pleased with Wednesday's win to preserve their season and pull within 3-1 in the NLCS, they apparently missed what would have been a memorable show had Granderson taken advantage of his extra opportunity.
"If he hits the next pitch out I might have come running out of the clubhouse in my jock strap," Maddon said after the game, per Mike Puma of the New York Post.
Wolf likely never would have forgotten his mistaken call then.



The defending champs aren't going down without a fight.
The Chicago Cubs extended their season Wednesday with a 3-2 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers in Game 4 of the 2017 National League Championship Series at Wrigley Field. Los Angeles still leads the series 3-1, but two home runs from Javier Baez, a homer from Willson Contreras and clutch pitching from Jake Arrieta and Wade Davis kept Chicago alive.
The Cubs put their season on Arrieta's shoulders, and he delivered with a vintage performance, allowing just three hits and five walks while striking out nine in 6.2 innings.
The only run he gave up was Cody Bellinger's solo homer in the top of the third, although he ran into trouble in the seventh when he walked Yasmani Grandal and Chris Taylor. Brian Duensing entered to face Bellinger—who represented the go-ahead run—and induced a fly out to end the frame and ensure Arrieta finished with an impressive stat line.
Wednesday may have been Arrieta's final start in a Cubs uniform considering he is set to become a free agent this offseason, and he added an exclamation mark to a tenure that included a 2015 Cy Young, a World Series title, three NLCS appearances and two no-hitters.
Bob Nightengale of USA Today suggested his outing paid off in more ways than one:
The way Jake Arrieta is pitching tonight, he's going to make a lot of money this winter, with this performance alone worth millions #Cubs
Arrieta even drove his counterpart from the game with a single in the fifth. It was the only base hit Alex Wood allowed that wasn't a home run, but three solo long balls with the wind blowing out at Wrigley cost him a chance at victory in his first career postseason start.
In all, he finished with seven strikeouts and zero walks while giving up three runs and four hits in 4.2 innings.
At the bottom of the second inning, Contreras had his monster blast off the left-field scoreboard, and not even the wind blowing in could have kept it from clearing the fence:
With AUTHORITY! @WContreras40 puts it on the scoreboard for real. https://t.co/j9TIIG4wdx
The catcher gave the Cubs their initial run for the fourth straight game in the series, but Baez—who was hitless in his 20 at-bats this postseason entering play Wednesday—helped the lead stand this time around with his solo homers in the second and fifth:
Javy’s heating up. #NLCS https://t.co/rrriTojl5C
His second homer came with a dash of style, as Brian Cassella of the Chicago Tribune captured:
Javy Baez blows a bubble while hitting his second home run. #Cubs NLCS Game 4 photos: https://t.co/CZ5ktsTe5L https://t.co/X7yynczc4y
It wasn't all bubblegum and home runs for the Cubs, as Davis' two-inning save came with a game's worth of drama. He needed 34 pitches to escape the eighth alone in a frame that featured a long ball from Justin Turner—which trimmed the lead to one—and manager Joe Maddon's ejection.
The umpires kicked the Chicago skipper from the game after Curtis Granderson's swing-and-miss for strike three was overturned and ruled a foul ball. The broadcast showed Granderson miss the pitch, and the play wasn't reviewable. The umpires still changed the call, however, and incited an outburst from Maddon and the hostile crowd.
Davis struck out Granderson on the next pitch before fanning Chase Utley with two runners on to end the threat.
A scoreless ninth means attention turns to Thursday's Game 5 at Wrigley.
The 3-1 margin is the hole the Cubs dug themselves out of in last year's World Series against the Cleveland Indians, so they have experience in these situations. But the Dodgers have the likes of Clayton Kershaw, Rich Hill and Yu Darvish looming as they look to clinch their first Fall Classic appearance in 29 years.     



Chicago Cubs manager Joe Maddon was ejected from Game 4 of the National League Championship Series on Wednesday night at Wrigley Field for arguing with umpires over a swinging strike three from Curtis Granderson that was ruled a foul ball.               
Although Granderson appeared to come up empty on his swing in the top of the eighth inning, umpires ruled that he tipped it and could remain in the batter's box. 
The Los Angeles Dodgers center fielder was subsequently afforded new life at the plate, but Davis struck him out on the next pitch and worked his way out of a two-on, two-out jam to keep the Cubs up 3-2.        
While there was ultimately no harm done, a base knock from Granderson could have sparked a Dodgers rally and incited a firestorm with the Cubs—down 0-3 in the series—playing for their postseason lives. 
"If he hits the next pitch out, I might have come running out of the clubhouse in my jock strap," Maddon said after the win, according to the New York Post's Mike Puma. 
The ejection did have historical implications for Maddon—who became the first manager in MLB history to get tossed from the same postseason series twice, according to Jacob Pomrenke of the Society for American Baseball Research. 
The umpires ejected Maddon in Game 1 of the NLCS when he argued Cubs catcher Willson Contreras hadn't blocked Charlie Culberson's path to home plate, contrary to the final ruling. 



NEW YORK — There were nights in May when it wasn't this loud, afternoons in August when the stands weren't full. The New York Yankees won a whole lot of those games at Yankee Stadium, too.
It's not just the noise. It's not just the aura.
Then again, noise and aura don't hurt. The beer and the insults cascading out of the bleachers don't help if you're a visiting team coming to Yankee Stadium hoping to win in October. Three of them have been there this month, from the Minnesota Twins in the American League Wild Card Game through the Cleveland Indians in the ALDS to the Houston Astros this week in the ALCS.
Three teams, six games, zero wins for the visitors. And as Wednesday night ended with the Yankees one win away from the World Series, don't let anyone tell you the ballpark and those who inhabit it aren't part of this team's story.
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
Take it from Todd Frazier, the kid from New Jersey who grew up to be a Yankee. He's the one who hit the three-run home run Monday, the one who was leaping over the dugout railing to wave baserunners home during Tuesday's comeback, the one who was laughing and smiling again after Wednesday's 5-0 Yankee win that put his team ahead three games to two in this best-of-seven series.
"This is New York, baby," he said. "Only the strong survive. And that's why I love playing here."

Or take it from George Springer, the kid from Connecticut who grew up to be an Astro.
"This is wild," he said, after three days as a target in center field. "This is a wild place to play, to say the least. It's definitely tough. The fans are into the game. They act as if they've won 27 world championships. I understand."
They have won 27 world championships, of course, and the Astros have won none. None of that should really matter in terms of what happens in 2017, and maybe it won't. As the Astros were quick to point out on their way out of town, they get back to their fans and their atmosphere when the series resumes Friday night at Minute Maid Park.
"They had their three games here," third baseman Alex Bregman said. "We have our four at home. It's home-field advantage."
And if it works out that way, with the Astros coming back to win Games 6 and 7 in Houston, perhaps the story of the 2017 Yankees will include a chapter or two on why they couldn't win on the road. They were the lone team to make the postseason with a losing road record (40-41) during the regular season, and the trend has kept up in October.
The Yankees are 1-4 on the road this month, although that one win was in a pretty important Game 5 in Cleveland…after they'd saved themselves in that series with two straight wins at home.
There was plenty more to what happened this week, for sure, with the best-hitting team in the major leagues suddenly finding itself ice-cold at the plate and with one of the biggest Yankee-killing pitchers of all time failing to make it through the fifth inning in Wednesday's Game 5.

It's hard to say it was the ballpark or the fans that got Dallas Keuchel, who gave up the first four runs Wednesday. The last time he was at Yankee Stadium for a postseason game, he pitched six scoreless innings and the Astros won the 2015 Wild Card Game 3-0.
"If you don't give the crowd anything to cheer for, they can't cheer," Keuchel said. "Two years ago, it seemed like they were searching for something to cheer for. It just wasn't there. These last three games, there was plenty to cheer for."
There was enough to make a ballpark come alive, enough for the Yankees and their fans to start up comparisons to the iconic place that once stood across the street from the current version of Yankee Stadium. In our memories, it was always louder there than anywhere else and the Yankees always won more there than anyone else won anywhere else.
Mystique and aura and all that, as Curt Schilling once said.
It was true, except when it wasn't. The 1996 Yankees won the first World Series of their era because they were perfect on the road, allowing them to overcome two bad Yankee Stadium losses to the Atlanta Braves. The 2004 Yankees own the worst postseason collapse ever, completed at Yankee Stadium. In the final 23 postseason games the old place hosted, the Yankees were a mediocre 11-12.
In the first season at the new place, they went 7-1 at home to win the World Series for the first time in nine years. It was loud that October, too.
"I feel like it's been a lot better this year," said CC Sabathia, the ace of the 2009 staff. "It's been nuts. And we feed off it."
He's not wrong, and neither are Frazier or Springer. Neither was Chase Headley, the Yankees designated hitter who compared it to a college football atmosphere after he had three hits Wednesday.
"They're going crazy the whole game," Headley said. "It's a huge advantage for us."
How do you argue with him, when the Yankees have been perfect at home this October? How do you argue, when even with regular-season noise and aura they went 51-30 at home from April through September?
They do seem to love this place. It's not just the hitters, the guys who can take advantage of the right field porch. Masahiro Tanaka, the starting pitcher who dominated the Astros on Wednesday, has made eight Yankee Stadium starts since the final week of July. His ERA in those eight games: 0.96.
Tanaka went seven innings Wednesday, allowing just three hits. Springer had one of them, although you can be sure the fans in the bleachers were more interested in reminding him about the time he struck out. And about a few other things.
"Stuff I can't repeat," Springer said. "Stuff I probably won't repeat in 20 years."
He won't forget playing here. The fans won't forget being here.
And the Yankees? They hope to get one win this weekend in Houston, just so they can come back here.
 
Danny Knobler covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report.
Follow Danny on Twitter and talk baseball.



The New York Yankees, improbable as it seemed four days ago, seized a 3-2 ALCS lead over the Houston Astros on Wednesday night with a 5-0 Game 5 win at Yankee Stadium. 
The Yankees have now scored 11 unanswered runs since falling behind 4-0 midway through Game 4 on Tuesday night.  
Game 4 evidently gave the Yankees a major confidence boost, because they looked aggressive and in the zone at the plate against Astros starter Dallas Keuchel, who had held them scoreless in two previous postseason appearances—including a dominant Game 1 outing. 
But on Wednesday, the Yankees were fearless in a way they previously hadn't been against the 2015 American League Cy Young Award winner, with their bats coming alive early and often. 
Starlin Castro got the party started with a double in the bottom of the second inning, and a Greg Bird single pushed the Yankees second baseman across, as Fox Sports MLB documented: 
The @Yankees strike first!

Greg Bird RBI single for the 1-0 lead in the 2nd.  https://t.co/J9w9E3MTeW
The next inning it was Aaron Judge's turn. He produced a double down the line to drive in Brett Gardner from first: 
The @Yankees strike first!

Greg Bird RBI single for the 1-0 lead in the 2nd.  https://t.co/J9w9E3MTeW
The AL home run leader has now produced four extra-base hits over the last three games. 
Gary Sanchez—who also cranked a solo home run—and Didi Gregorius each tacked on an RBI single in the bottom of the fifth inning, at which point Keuchel's night was over. 
The New York Post's Joel Sherman broke down just how uncharacteristic Keuchel's struggles were: 
In 8 previous starts v. #Yankees, Keuchel allowed 7 ER in 57.2IP. Tonight: 4 ERs in 4.2IP. #Astros
The breakthrough against Keuchel was accompanied by another gem from Masahiro Tanaka, who tallied eight strikeouts over seven scoreless innings. 
Thanks to that effort, Tanaka—who struck out seven over seven innings in Game 3 of the ALDS—entered rare statistical air, according to ESPN Stats & Info: 
Multiple scoreless starts of at least 7 inn - same postseason in #Yankees history: 
- Masahiro Tanaka
- Roger Clemens
- Whitey Ford
Now trailing 3-2, the Astros will attempt to stave off elimination and force a decisive Game 7 when Justin Verlander squares off against Luis Severino on Friday night. 
But in order to do so, the AL West champions will need to find consistent sources of offense—especially at the bottom of the order—to keep pace with a Yankee lineup that's hitting its stride with a World Series berth in sight. 



The Houston Astros thought that winning the first two games of the American League Championship Series had put them in the driver's seat to win the pennant.
The New York Yankees clearly had other ideas. After dropping a pair of 2-1 decisions, the Yankees have roared back to tie the series with 8-1 and 6-4 victories.
The Astros were seemingly in command in Game 4, as they took a 4-0 lead into the bottom of the seventh inning. The Yankees had just one hit off Houston starter Lance McCullers, and he was clearly on top of his game.
However, Aaron Judge launched a mammoth home run to center field leading off the seventh, and Houston manager A.J. Hinch did not want to take any more chances. He took McCullers out and replaced him with Chris Devenski. The Yankees scored one more run in the inning to close to 4-2.
The swing that put the @Yankees on top.

Courtesy, @ElGarySanchez. #ALCS https://t.co/NEDzCtOVGt
In the bottom of the eighth, the Yankees launched an all-out assault against the Houston bullpen. They scored four runs to take a two-run lead as Judge drove in the tying run with a two-base hit and catcher Gary Sanchez doubled in the go-ahead and insurance runs.
The Yankees closed out the game behind the power arm of Aroldis Chapman in the ninth inning.
The Yankees squared the series at 2-2 and have the momentum and the home field for Game 5 on Wednesday. The series will shift back to Houston for Game 6 on Friday and a potential Game 7 on Saturday.
The Los Angeles Dodgers had no problems going on the road for the first time in the NLCS against the defending World Series champion Chicago Cubs. After falling behind 1-0 on a Kyle Schwarber first-inning home run at Wrigley Field, the workmanlike Dodgers rallied for a relatively easy 6-1 victory in Game 3.
The Dodgers lead the series 3-0 and can clinch the National League pennant on Wednesday night. 
Here's a look at the full schedule for the two league championship series. (All times are Eastern.)

Wednesday, October 18Houston at New York, 5 p.m., FS1Los Angeles at Chicago, 9 p.m., TBS
Thursday, Oct. 19Los Angeles at Chicago, 9 p.m., TBS*
Friday, Oct. 20New York at Houston, 8 p.m., FS1
Saturday, Oct. 21Chicago at Los Angeles, 4 p.m., TBS*New York at Houston, 8 p.m., FS1*
Sunday, Oct. 22Chicago at Los Angeles, 7:30 p.m., TBS*
*-if necessary
   
The Astros will send Dallas Keuchel to the mound in Game 5 against Masahiro Tanaka of the Yankees. Those two hooked up in Game 1, and Keuchel and the Astros recorded the victory.
Keuchel will try to blunt the Yankees' momentum once again. Keuchel struck out 10 Yankees in that game while walking one and giving up four hits. He did not give up a run. 
Tanaka was solid as he allowed two earned runs in six innings while also allowing four hits, but that was not good enough.
Kuechel should have the advantage, but the Yankees are 5-0 at Yankee Stadium during the current postseason, while the Astros are 1-3 on the road.
The Dodgers will send Alex Wood to the mound in an attempt to sweep the Cubs out of the postseason, while the Cubs will counter with Jake Arrieta. Wood was 16-3 during the regular season with a 2.72 earned-run average. Arrieta was 14-10 with a 3.53 ERA.
   
Predictions
Let's get the one-sided National League out of the way quickly. The Dodgers will win the National League pennant and represent the senior circuit in the World Series.
It will come as quickly as Wednesday if Wood can best Arrieta (or the Dodgers bullpen gets the best of the Cubs relievers). If not, the Dodgers will win it in five games—or six at the most.
Chicago's reign will be over at the conclusion of the NLCS.
The ALCS is another story, as neither team has blinked on its home field. If that does not change for the remaining games of the series, the Astros will represent the American League in the World Series for the first time in their history. (They did play in the 2005 Fall Classic, but they were National League champions that year and were swept in the World Series by the American League's Chicago White Sox.)
We don't see the home-field trend continuing. Keuchel is simply too good, and the Yankees will not be able to solve him. The Astros will win Game 5 and go home with a chance to clinch it.
The Astros will send Justin Verlander to face Luis Severino in Game 6, and we expect the Yankees to square the series.
It will all come down to Game 7, and the Astros will find a way to scratch out a late run—possibly in walk-off fashion—and win their first American League pennant.



The Chicago Cubs have a huge mountain to climb if they want to defend the World Series championship they won in such memorable fashion in 2016.
They trail the Los Angeles Dodgers 3-0 in the National League Championship Series after dropping a 6-1 decision in Game 3, and if starting pitcher Jake Arrieta and the Cubs can't get the best of counterpart Alex Wood and the Dodgers, the National League will have a new champion.
The game is scheduled for 9 p.m. ET at Wrigley Field and will be televised by TBS.
The Cubs have had the early lead in the first three games of the series, but they haven't been able to stop the Dodgers from coming back in any of those games.
There were high hopes for the Cubs prior to Game 3, as they sent Kyle Hendricks to the mound and manager Joe Maddon made several moves to boost the lineup. One of them was putting Kyle Schwarber in left field and batting him second, and the power hitter came through with a solo home run in the bottom of the first inning.
Chris Taylor is first player in #MLB postseason history to homer as an outfielder (Game 1, CF) and shortstop (Game 3) in same postseason. https://t.co/YvOPnQ6PCa
However, that had little impact as the Dodgers tied the game in the top of the second on a home run by Andre Ethier and took the lead in the third inning on Chris Taylor's 448-foot long ball to center field.
The Dodgers methodically added to that lead as the game progressed, while the Cubs had no answers for Los Angeles starting pitcher Yu Darvish. Chicago managed six hits and one walk off Darvish in 6.1 innings but could not add to their lone run.
The Los Angeles bullpen blanked the Cubs in the final 2.2 innings.
Here's a look at the schedule for the remainder of the NLCS (all times are ET):
Wednesday, October 18Game 4, Los Angeles at Chicago, 9 p.m., TBS
Thursday, Oct. 19Game 5, Los Angeles at Chicago, 9 p.m., TBS*
Saturday, Oct. 21Game 6, Chicago at Los Angeles, 4 p.m., TBS*
Sunday, Oct. 22Game 7, Chicago at Los Angeles, 7:30 p.m., TBS*
*-if necessary
The Cubs remained hopeful about their ability to mount a comeback from the 3-0 deficit, something that only the 2004 Boston Red Sox have managed in the history of Major League Baseball.
"I think we've won four games in a row before," Chicago slugger Kris Bryant said, per Stats TSX. "Obviously, it's going to be a tougher road. But it'll make the story that much better. Can you imagine that?"
Ethier missed most of the season with a herniated lumbar disk and he had two hits in his first postseason start. He said the Dodgers were just going about their normal routine.
"We knew today was the most important game, and now tomorrow's the most important game," Ethier said. "We're going to come out and figure out how to get the job done again."

Prediction
The Cubs are not competing on equal terms with the Dodgers, and something is missing from their lineup as they are not hitting and not scoring runs.
They look like a tired team compared to their opponents, and Bryant admitted after the Game 3 loss. "I wouldn't say emotionally or mentally," Bryant said, per Steve Greenberg of the Chicago Sun-Times. "But I think physically, yeah. Obviously, some guys are tired. It has been a really long year. We've had some long days and stuff like that."
It seems like the Cubs will not go into Game 4 with a full gas tank, and that's going to make it tough to compete with the steamrolling Dodgers. Los Angeles is 6-0 in this year's postseason.
Arrieta is going to be a free agent in the offseason, and he would love to show off his best form in what may be his last start in a Cubs uniform. Wood has not had a postseason start, and he may not be sharp considering he hasn't pitched since September 26.
If Arrieta is able to limit the Dodgers and go deep into the game and Wood is somewhat rusty and gives the Cubs some hittable pitches, pride should take over for the home team. However, if Wood is sharp and the Dodgers can scratch out a few runs against Arrieta, the Dodgers will be tough to beat.
The latter scenario seems more likely, so look for the Dodgers to get their sweep. The starting pitching has been too good, and the relief pitching has been almost perfect.
The Dodgers will win the National League pennant on the Cubs' home field and move on to the World Series.



We now officially have a series.
After waking up offensively in Games 3 and 4, the New York Yankees are full of life as they look to force an elimination game in the American League Championship Series. As for the Houston Astros, a familiar problem has undone the impressive two-game lead they earned to start the series, and it could end up sinking their season.
Two more games are guaranteed, but it seems likely that one team is going to need to steal a road game in order to win the ALCS. Want to catch the action? Check out the upcoming schedule, as well as the latest odds after, courtesy of OddsShark.com.
   
Latest World Series Odds
Astros: 9/4
Yankees: 7/2
   
Game 5
When: Wednesday, Oct. 18 at 5 p.m. ET
Television: FS1
   
Game 6
When: Friday, Oct. 20 at 8 p.m. ET
Television: FS1
   
Game 7*
When: Saturday, Oct. 21 at 8 p.m. ET
Television: FS1
    
Game 5 Preview
Perhaps no two pitchers are throwing as well this postseason as Dallas Keuchel and Justin Verlander, and the pair were instrumental in earning the Astros two wins to open up this series. Now, Houston's weaknesses are beginning to show up.
Rotation depth and a poor bullpen helped down the Astros in Games 3 and 4. Charlie Morton was tattooed for seven earned runs in just 3.2 innings as Will Harris came on in relief to surrender a three-run homer to the slumping Aaron Judge and allowed an earned run himself in the Game 3 defeat. 
Lance McCullers Jr. turned in perhaps his best start in months as he iced the Yankees for one hit in six innings before conceding a solo shot to Judge. Yet, the relief party of Chris Devenski, Ken Giles and Joe Musgrove combined to allow six hits and five runs to squander Houston's four-run lead in Game 4. 
In fact, only Keuchel and Verlander have registered wins for Houston this postseason, combining for just five earned runs in 30.1 innings. As for the rest of the Astros, they have combined for a porous 29 runs conceded in 38.1 innings. The bullpen was not much better throughout the regular season, finishing 17th in MLB with a 4.27 ERA. 
Keuchel is set to start Game 5, which is the bright side for Houston. He blanked the Yankees for just four hits and no runs over seven innings in Game 1, but he has only gone at least seven innings four times since May 2. This means the Astros will have to again turn to their shaky bullpen at some point, which forced MLB Network's Robert Flores to joke that Keuchel may need to stay in the game as long as possible:
Keuchel might have to throw 150 pitches tomorrow.
#Astros #EarnHistory
Masahiro Tanaka is up again for this deep rotation, and he has also been sensational in the postseason. He's allowed just seven hits and two walks in a pair of starts, going 13 innings in that time. Tanaka should be fine, but unlike Keuchel, he has a dominant bullpen supporting him that should have Chad Green, Tommy Kahnle and possibly Aroldis Chapman available in Game 4.
That Yankees' pitching prowess has been able to limit an explosive Astros offense to just nine runs in four games—a far cry from the 24 they scored in four ALDS games to go with their MLB-best 896 runs in the regular season. Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa are the only two Astros hitting above .231 who have played in all three games, with stars like George Springer, .071 average, being the main culprits for the scoring lag.
Springer understands Houston needs more offensively, but he still feels his team can overcome and grind out enough wins, per Matt Ehalt of NorthJersey.com.
"I would be surprised, but [when] you’re facing a staff like that and bullpen like that, it’s hard to score," said Springer after Game 3. "Those guys are good over there and it's going to be a battle this whole series. We’re not going to come out and score eight runs every game. We’re going to have to fight."
Houston needs to rebound quickly, as the Yankees have been an unstoppable force at home in 2017. With the AL's best home mark of 51-30 during the regular season, New York is using Yankee Stadium to help fuel its playoff run, and history has been kind to the team when doing so, per ESPN:
The Yankees are now 5-0 at home this postseason. 👀 https://t.co/9LRchDHB5d
With that in mind, Game 5 truly feels like a toss-up.
Keuchel should be his excellent self, but he cannot afford any mistakes given the mediocrity of his bullpen and the energy that an error would give the Yankee Stadium crowd. Tanaka and the bullpen should also be fine, but can New York provide enough run support?
The past two games have shown that the most likely scenario is Keuchel going six or seven innings, maybe giving up a run, before New York scores late. The Yankees do not have nearly the same amount of risk associated with them due their pitching depth, so they look to be a safer bet to take Game 5, especially at home.
Still, the Astros have another Verlander start left, and he is much more likely to give them extended starting length to avoid the bullpen. Look for this series to eventually go seven games, but Houston's chances are slim unless they can find a gem outing from a third starter.
Statistics are courtesy of MLB.com unless otherwise noted. 



Fact: In the sixth inning of Tuesday's Game 3 of the National League Championship Series, Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Yu Darvish drew a walk to force in a run, becoming the first pitcher to draw a bases-loaded walk in the postseason since 1977.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: Andrew Simon



Two completely different series are unfolding in the MLB postseason. 
The New York Yankees used the awakening of their bats to level the ALCS with the Houston Astros at two games apiece on Tuesday. 
On the other end of the spectrum, the Dodgers continued their dominance in the NLCS by going into Wrigley Field and taking Game 3 from the Chicago Cubs. 
The Astros and Yankees are poised to provide all the drama in the next few days, while the Dodgers are one step away from their first World Series since 1988. 
               
Results
ALCS
Game 1: Astros 2, Yankees 1
Game 2: Astros 2, Yankees 1
Game 3: Yankees 8, Astros 1
Game 4: Yankees 6, Astros 4
                   
NLCS
Game 1: Dodgers 5, Cubs 2
Game 2: Dodgers 4, Cubs 1
Game 3: Dodgers 6, Cubs 1
                     
Highlights and Reaction
The Yankees got contributions from the heart of their order in clutch situations on Tuesday night, as Aaron Judge and Gary Sanchez doubles at the bottom of the eighth leveled the series. 
Judge tied Game 4 at four runs apiece before Sanchez delivered the game-winning hit two batters later. MLB's official Twitter account provided us with a look at the game-winning two-base knock: 
The swing that put the @Yankees on top.

Courtesy, @ElGarySanchez. #ALCS https://t.co/NEDzCtOVGt
The Yankees were able to get to that point in the game thanks to a tremendous two-inning relief outing from Chad Green. Aroldis Chapman then closed out the game with the lead to ignite the crowd at Yankee Stadium. The postseason environment and finish at Yankee Stadium reminded former Yankee Paul O'Neill of past postseasons in the Bronx: 
Great game tonight! Reminded me of the good old days!! Yankees fans are the best... the stadium was rocking!!
However, the series is far from over as three games remain on the ALCS schedule, starting with Wednesday's Game 5 in the Bronx. Astros manager A.J. Hinch was quick to remind everyone there's still plenty to play for, per MLB.com's Mark Feinsand: 
A.J. Hinch: “The series wasn’t over after two games. It’s certainly not over after four.”
Game 5 features a rematch of the Game 1 pitching matchup between Dallas Keuchel and Masahiro Tanaka. Keuchel tossed seven scoreless innings on the mound in Game 1, while Tanaka gave up two runs in six innings of work. 
Over in Chicago on Tuesday night, the Dodgers took some risks in the latter innings of Game 3, and they paid off. 
After a home run from Andre Ethier and a home run and RBI triple from Chris Taylor, the Dodgers got their fourth run in bizarre fashion. After using Curtis Granderson as a decoy in the on-deck circle, Dave Roberts sent Yu Darvish out to hit. Darvish was walked on four pitches by Carl Edwards. MLB.com's Andrew Simon noted it was the first time a pitcher drew a bases-loaded walk in the postseason in 40 years: 
Unbelievable. Yu Darvish is the first pitcher to draw a bases-loaded walk in the postseason since 1977! 40 years ...
Ryan Fagan of Sporting News summed up everyone's feelings on Darvish's sixth-inning plate appearance: 
I've seen some strange things in baseball. And Edwards walking Darvish on four pitches with the bases loaded ranks way up on that list.
The contrast of bullpen success in the NLCS continues to be striking as well, as the Dodgers relievers have only given up two hits in four games. ESPN's Buster Olney noted how historic Chicago's 0-for-29 start against the Dodgers bullpen was: 
Cubs 0-29 against LAD bullpen. ELIAS: Longest hitless streak by a team against opposing relief pitchers to begin a postseason series.
Meanwhile, the Cubs bullpen continued to struggle with four more walks to add to their postseason total of 23. In addition, Mike Montgomery gave up two runs in the eighth to make the offense's task even more insurmountable. 
With so many things going against them, the Cubs have a better chance to return to the golf course than they do Dodger Stadium, but this is postseason baseball and stranger things have happened, just ask Dodgers manager Dave Roberts. 
                   
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90. 



The MLB postseason has a funny way of amplifying even the smallest of sample sizes.
A player who gets hot for a couple weeks has a chance to immortalize himself as a playoff hero while potentially helping to lead his team to a World Series title.
However, that works both ways, as a player's short-term struggles also tend to be magnified.
Ahead we've named the five biggest duds of the postseason to this point, picking from the four teams that are still alive. The Houston Astros and New York Yankees are tied at two games apiece in the American League Championship Series, while the Los Angeles Dodgers have a 3-0 lead over the Chicago Cubs in the NLCS.
We've also provided a quick list of offenders from teams who have already been eliminated.


A dangerous lineup top to bottom was the Houston Astros' calling card during the regular season and it helped them lead the majors in runs scored (896), batting average (.282) and OPS (.823).
The stars of the lineup have performed as expected this postseason:
However, aside from veteran/rookie Yuli Gurriel, the complementary players have struggled:
For a team whose biggest strength was a lineup that never gave the opposing pitcher a chance to catch his breath, getting more production from the Nos. 2 and 5-9 spots in the order will be crucial going forward.

Gary Sanchez was 2-for-4 in the Wild Card Game and he drove in three runs Tuesday.
In between, he went 4-for-34 (.118) with 15 strikeouts and just one walk, including an 0-for-18 slump prior to his seventh-inning double in Game 4.
The Yankees have asked a lot of their young hitters this postseason and that will continue to be the case going forward.
Greg Bird and Didi Gregorius have both come up with some big hits, and Aaron Judge has managed to find a way to be a positive contributor despite striking out a whopping 22 strikeouts in 45 plate appearances.
Can last night's performance be a turning point for Sanchez?
Manager Joe Girardi thinks so.
"He's a really good hitter," Girardi told reporters. "I've seen Hall of Famers struggle in a series or two in the playoffs. It's just part of it. But eventually it's going to turn for him and it did in a big way tonight."
Another big hit or two will be all it takes to knock him out of these rankings.

Walks will absolutely kill you in the postseason, especially when it comes to high-leverage situations late in the game.
The Chicago Cubs bullpen has inexplicably walked 23 hitters in 28.1 innings en route to a 6.35 ERA this postseason.
Ace setup man Carl Edwards Jr. has been the biggest culprit with six walks in 4.2 innings, including an inexcusable bases-loaded walk of Yu Darvish Tuesday.
While his struggles have been the most visible, Edwards is far from the only issue in the Chicago bullpen, and a lack of faith in his relief corps has undoubtedly changed how manager Joe Maddon has approached games.
Closer Wade Davis is a stud and he turned in a masterful performance in Game 5 of the National League Division Series, but having a lights-out closer doesn't mean anything if you can't get him the ball with a lead.
Jake Arrieta lasted just four innings in his NLDS start and he's been battling a hamstring injury over the past month, so it could fall on the bullpen once again with the team facing elimination in Game 4 Wednesday.

Co-aces Dallas Keuchel and Justin Verlander have done their part atop the Houston Astros rotation, and Lance McCullers Jr. looked terrific over six innings Tuesday after pitching out of the bullpen in the ALDS.
However, Brad Peacock and Charlie Morton have put the Astros in a tough spot.
Peacock was nothing short of a revelation during the regular season, going 13-2 with a 3.00 ERA, 1.19 WHIP and 161 strikeouts in 132 innings while splitting his time between the rotation and bullpen.
After going 3-1 with a 2.68 ERA over his final nine starts, he earned the Game 3 start in the ALDS but lasted just 2.2 innings while allowing six hits, one walk and three earned runs.
Morton was equally impressive in his first season with the Astros while returning from hamstring surgery as he went 14-7 with a 3.62 ERA, 1.19 WHIP and 163 strikeouts in 146.2 innings while discovering some additional fastball velocity.
However, he turned in a mediocre start in the ALDS (4.1 IP, 7 H, 2 ER) and was shelled in Game 3 of the ALCS (3.2 IP, 6 H, 7 ER).
With the ALCS knotted at 2-2, the Astros are lined up to throw Keuchel in Game 5 and Verlander in Game 6, but what if there's a Game 7?

The Cubs had the most potent offense in baseball during the second half of the season, scoring 5.7 runs per game while hitting .273 with an .811 OPS.
Anyone who has watched even a few innings of the NLCS might find that hard to believe.
They've plated a meager four runs on 15 hits through the first three games of the series, and the plate discipline that allowed them to rank second in the majors in walks has completely disappeared—they have just four walks against 32 strikeouts.
And it's been a total team effort.
The NLDS matchup with the Nationals wasn't much better as they hit .180 over the five-game series, but they still found ways to score when the rare opportunity presented itself.
Simply put, the Cubs are staring down a 3-0 deficit, and its offensive ineptitude deserves a good chunk of the blame.
       
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, unless otherwise noted.



Tossing money at a problem is typically a dangerous decision for any MLB team. Yet despite all the regrettable contracts signed through free agency, multiple squads will inevitably attempt to spend away their worries.
Yoenis Cespedes, Mark Melancon, Ian Desmond and Jose Bautista all struggled to stay healthy and/or effective after agreeing to expensive deals last winter. Rewind to 2015's offseason, and the results are scarier than any haunted house.
David Price, Jordan Zimmermann, Jason Heyward, Chris Davis, Wei-Yin Chen, Alex Gordon, Hisashi Iwakuma and Scott Kazmir all turned into hideous payroll hindrances. In an offseason with more big names than last year, some teams will end up investing in the wrong players.
That doesn't mean free agency is always a lost cause. Besides, an inspired contender must sometimes make a risky purchase in order to unlock a championship ceiling.
From World Series hopefuls to rebuilding franchises with no veterans clogging the payroll, every squad will enter the open market with a wish list. Some will want a star. Others will settle for anyone whose value has sapped enough to meet their budget.
When observing each team's needs and desires, consider that signing Japanese star right-handed starter and left-handed slugger Shohei Otani should top every organization's whiteboard. International spending caps make him a steal and whom any franchise can benefit from obtaining.
Listing him for a dozen or more teams would be repetitive, so let's focus more on specific position needs. In some cases, retaining a certain player is imperative. By piecing together a comprehensive checklist for each club, one will notice that pitching is once again in high demand. 

First Wish: Retain J.D. Martinez
Second Wish: Bullpen Help
Third Wish: Affordable Outfielder if Martinez Leaves 
J.D. Martinez's Herculean stint with the Arizona Diamondbacks may have simultaneously increased their desire to keep him while diminishing their odds of retaining the summer rental.
After crushing 29 homers with a .741 slugging percentage in 62 games, the 30-year-outfielder cemented his standing as an elite free agent. Because Zack Greinke will consume $34 million of their payroll next year, the Diamondbacks may balk at signing another bloated check.
While Diamondbacks general manager Mike Hazen praised Martinez for fueling them to a wild-card bid, he expressed uncertainty over a continued arrangement to AZCentral.com's Nick Piecoro:
"We wouldn't be where we got to without him. He changed the middle of our lineup significantly, in a way that we've obviously recognized. We'll see, and meet with J.D. We'll certainly stay engaged with him. We obviously know the type of season he's had and good for him on that. Where that takes us, I'm not exactly sure just yet."
Should Martinez leave, Christian Walker—who hit .302 with 32 homers in Triple-A—could be a cheap in-house replacement. Signing another outfielder would thus take a backseat to bolstering a bullpen regardless or whether or not they lose inconsistent closer Fernando Rodney.
Although Archie Bradley arguably deserves a ninth-inning promotion, the Diamondbacks can make better use of the converted starter if they don't restrict him to a confined role. Either way, he was their only reliever to record an ERA below 3.50 in 2017, so they need to snag a couple bullpen arms from a deep free-agent class.

First Wish: Starting Pitching
Second Wish: Relief Pitching
Third Wish: Third Baseman
The Atlanta Braves should not execute a free-agent spending spree regardless of who takes over as general manager.
A stacked farm system gives them a bright future, but it would take more than two or three solid veterans to transform a 72-90 squad into a legitimate playoff threat. They also have another year before dumping Nick Markakis' questionable $11 million annual salary. 
Next offseason's ballyhooed free-agent crop is their time to pounce. This winter, however, replacing veterans R.A. Dickey and Jaime Garcia with another experienced midtier starter should be their top priority.
Not ready to contend just yet, signing John Lackey or CC Sabathia as a short-term placeholder would make more sense than ransacking their savings account for Yu Darvish or Jake Arrieta. Atlanta can then flip that innings-eater during the summer if any of their many pitching prospects justify a big league tryout.
While rebuilding organizations do not need to prioritize relief pitching, that showed in their bullpen's 4.58 ERA. There's enough talent to go bargain shopping. 
Third base derailed the lineup before rookie Johan Camargo batted .299/.331/.452 in 82 games. Since he's a career .279/.333/.369 minor league hitter who notched a .636 OPS against righties for the Braves, they would benefit from enlisting a platoon partner and/or contingency plan such as Mark Reynolds.
These are distant interests after starting pitching, which the Braves can also address on the trade market.

First Wish: Starting Pitching
Second Wish: Starting Pitching
Third Wish: Extend 2018 Free Agents
This order assumes the Baltimore Orioles will have no luck extending Manny Machado, who has one year left before he can devastate the franchise by departing. According to FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman, rivals pegged the Orioles' chances of signing a long-term deal this offseason as slim to none.
Quite frankly, the Orioles need a lot to bring Machado back to the playoffs. The offense ranked No. 19 in weighted on-base average, but they may have to merely hope for better returns from Chris Davis and Mark Trumbo.
Starting pitching demands too much attention. After registering an MLB-worst 5.70 ERA, the Orioles will look to refurbish their rotation behind Dylan Bundy and Kevin Gausman. Per MLB.com's Jon Paul Morosi, they plan on adding "as many as two starting pitchers from outside the organization."
If they want to afford Machado, then Lance Lynn and Alex Cobb are more plausible targets than Arrieta and Darvish. They're a prime candidate to overpay for one or two solid but unspectacular options.
If they can't lock down their young superstar, the Orioles should make a concerted effort to maintain Adam Jones, Zach Britton and/or Brad Brach, who can all walk after the 2018 campaign. Losing Jones, the 32-year-old outfielder, would especially be a tough blow following a remarkably durable and consistent decade leading the club.

First Wish: Power-Hitting First Baseman
Second Wish: Setup Man
Third Wish: Bench Bat
In a postseason littered with potent lineups, the Boston Red Sox's did not belong.
The regular-season's wOBA leaderboard starts with every other playoff participant besides Boston, which finished No. 20 with the fifth-worst slugging percentage (.407) and fourth-fewest home runs (168). 
The Sox should improve with a full season from Rafael Devers and positive regression from Mookie Betts, Xander Bogaerts and Jackie Bradley Jr. Yet they still need a power jolt to replace the underwhelming Mitch Moreland at first base. While designated hitter Hanley Ramirez also struggled to 2017, his $22.75 million salary likely means Boston will keep him in the everyday lineup.
The Red Sox do not need to extend a megacontract to Eric Hosmer. Given his career .439 slugging percentage, they should instead seek pop from Carlos Santana, Logan Morrison, Yonder Alonso, Lucas Duda or Jay Bruce.
Since Eduardo Nunez and Chris Young will join Moreland on the open market, the AL East champions should seek another position player for depth. Yet retaining Addison Reed or replacing him with another high-leverage reliever should take higher priority. That is, unless, they're comfortable relying on healthy returns from Carson Smith and Tyler Thornburg.

First Wish: Starting Pitching
Relief Pitching: Relief Pitching
Third Wish: Backup Catcher/Center Fielder 
With Arrieta, Lackey, Wade Davis, Brian Duensing and Koji Uehara all free to explore the open market, the Chicago Cubs are likely to lose some veteran pitchers.
Winning bidding wars for Arrieta and Davis won't be easy. Since they have both shown signs of deterioration and will be 32 next Opening Day, the Cubs should prefer not to pay both anyway. Arrieta and Davis did not perform like studs with fielding independent pitching ERAs of 4.16 and 3.38, respectively, but they will still get paid handsomely as two of the winter's marquee free agents.
They also, of course, can't afford to lose an All-Star ace and closer without any consolation prizes. Even in a down year, Lackey's pedigree and durability makes him a luxury No. 5 starter.
Team president Theo Epstein planned ahead by acquiring Jose Quintana and Justin Wilson during the season. An expected bullpen upgrade, Wilson did not make the National League Championship Series roster after permitting 37 baserunners over 17.2 innings with the Cubs, who will still have two rotation vacancies beyond Quintana, Jon Lester and Kyle Hendricks if their starters leave.
Alex Avila and Jon Jay are also free agents, but a deep lineup otherwise remains intact. Pitching will require too much of their resources to spend on keeping or replacing them with players of similar value.

First Wish: Relief Pitching
Second Wish: Workhorse Starting Pitchers
Third Wish: Center Fielder 
The Chicago White Sox rid their roster of every valuable veteran besides Jose Abreu in an unabashed teardown. Don't expect a sudden about-face this winter.
James Shields' unmovable $21 million is the only major salary left on the payroll, of which the San Diego Padres will cover $11 million. Still, why spend to get a 67-win team to 72 wins? Let the kids, particularly Yoan Moncada, Lucas Giolito and Reynaldo Lopez, learn through experience.
If anything, the White Sox should attain some veteran clubhouse leaders on one- or two-year deals. After trading David Robertson, Tommy Kahnle and Anthony Swarzak, some bullpen placeholders wouldn't hurt. Rather than paying to bring Swarzak back, they should find new buy-low fliers.
Of the five starters who tossed more than 70 innings, only Shields remains under contract. Even if they're empty calories, the White Sox should augment their young rotation with one or two veteran innings-eaters, a la Doug Fister, Jeremy Hellickson, Chris Tillman and Scott Feldman. 
Their center fielders posted an MLB-worst .269 wOBA, so Cameron Maybin or Jarrod Dyson would fit as a short-term signing they could flip. Anyone they land should be from the clearance aisle.

First Wish: Re-Sign Zack Cozart
Second Wish: Pitching
Third Wish: Pitching 
Saddled with the NL's worst ERA (5.17), the Cincinnati Reds should set their sights on hurlers capable of making their rebuild a more pleasant experience.
First they should do their darndest to bring back Zack Cozart.
After failing to trade the shortstop amid a breakout campaign, they also could not reach a long-term extension. Letting the 32-year-old walk for a compensation pick after hitting .297/.385/.548 with 5.0 WAR would sting.
Cincinnati must extend an $18.2 million qualifying offer in order to receive the draft compensation. Although not an easy expenditure with Joey Votto, Homer Bailey and Devin Mesoraco making a combined $59.1 million next season, Cozart accepting that offer would avoid a long-term commitment and give them a second chance to exchange him for prospects next summer.
Based on a quiet trade market, Zach Buchanan of the Cincinnati Enquirer said it's "difficult to see a wide market willing to pay him enough to dissuade Cozart from accepting the qualifying offer." Per FanGraphs, he generated $40 million of value in 122 games.
Given his strong defense, they could also gamble on his injury history and out-of-nowhere offense with a three-year deal if he would accept an offer around the $35-40 million range. If he leaves, the Reds should give the starting shortstop job to Jose Peraza and focus exclusively on locating starting and relief pitching.

First Wish: Keep Carlos Santana
Second Wish: Relief Pitching
Third Wish: Corner Outfielder
Despite squandering a 2-0 American League Division Series lead to the New York Yankees, the Cleveland Indians should not overreact. Ending the regular season with a plus-254 run differential, they will return to the playoff picture without making any glossy renovations.
Their wish list focuses exclusively on retaining free agents or finding replacements of comparable value.
He's not a star, but Carlos Santana is vital to Cleveland's success. While his power fluctuates—he hit 23 homers in 2017 after tallying a career-high 34 the previous year—his on-base percentage has never dipped below .350 in eight seasons. Only Joey Votto and Jose Bautista have higher walk rates during that stretch than his 15.2 percent. 
Keeping August rental Jay Bruce is less of a necessity, but Austin Jackson can also turn his career revival into a free-agent payday. How much they're willing to spend depends on their trust in Michael Brantley staying healthy. They could buy out an $11 million club option for $1 million, an unlikely yet feasible scenario if they would rather pay Bruce and/or Jackson.
A bullpen led by Andrew Miller and Cody Allen is far from a weakness, but Bryan Shaw has quietly offered middle-inning stability with a 3.11 ERA through five seasons with Cleveland. When Miller went on the disabled list, Joe Smith arrived for reinforcements. Now both can skip town.
Playoff baseball is cruel, but Cleveland should try to run back this year's juggernaut in full form.

First Wish: Preserve Bullpen
Second Wish: Re-Sign Jonathan Lucroy
Third Wish: First Baseman and/or Corner Outfielder 
Let's hope the Colorado Rockies learned their lesson from the Ian Desmond debacle. 
Last year's oddest free-agent overpay posted minus-0.9 WAR in 95 games. He's due $22 million, hindering their ability to retain an avalanche of players whose contracts expired. Instead of paying above-market price for brand names, they should let Coors Field aid reclamation projects like Mark Reynolds, who joins Carlos Gonzalez and Jonathan Lucroy on the open market.
According to the Denver Post's Patrick Saunders, the Rockies would like Lucroy to stay and work with a young pitching staff. The midseason acquisition told Saunders that he would "absolutely" be interested in staying in Colorado, and money is not his only concern.
"Look, I'm a 31-year-old catcher, so I have to get going," Lucroy said. "I want a ring, or two, or three. And I think the opportunity is definitely here for that to happen."
Colorado can find another first baseman or corner outfielder who would enjoy Coors if Reynolds and/or Gonzalez leave, but Lucroy is the top choice behind the plate despite belting just six home runs.
Recruiting pitchers is not as easy, and the Rockies could require a complete overhaul. Greg Holland will decline a $15 million option, per Heyman, to join Pat Neshek and Jake McGee in free agency.
Considering the closer accrued a 3.61 ERA and 3.72 FIP, he probably did Colorado a favor. That's only if it finds cost-effective replacements, as Adam Ottavino—holder of a 5.06 ERA—might be the closer. 
The Rockies need to nail the offseason to return to the playoffs in 2018.

First Wish: Starting Pitching
Second Wish: Relief Pitching
Third Wish: Outfielder 
The Detroit Tigers embraced an overdue rebuild by trading J.D. Martinez, Justin Upton and Justin Verlander. Modeling past spending habits would betray their youth movement.
They're also not out of the woods yet. Miguel Cabrera, Jordan Zimmermann and Victor Martinez will earn a combined $72 million next year, and they must give Anibal Sanchez $5 million to buy out a $16 million option.
Think of them as someone learning how to live on a budget after coasting on their affluent parents' account. In prior years, they would have chased Darvish, Arrieta and Davis. Now they should target cheaper alternatives looking to restore their value with a short-term arrangement.
Signing Lackey and Luke Gregerson would not repair a group that amassed an MLB-worst 5.36 ERA in 2017. Neither would the top-shelf options. Building a playoff contender is no longer an attainable goal, so they should pivot to placeholders capable of outperforming their contracts.
Nicholas Castellanos will likely stay in right field, with Jeimer Candelario commanding third base, but they might want a left fielder with Upton and Martinez gone. Jayson Werth, Melky Cabrera or a reunion with Curtis Granderson makes sense for one or two years.

First Wish: Left-Handed Reliever
Second Wish: Designated Hitter
Third Wish: Another Left-Handed Reliever? 
The Houston Astros are stacked. They will stay stacked next year, as only a few veteran contributors, most notably Gregerson and Carlos Beltran, can leave.
Acquiring Verlander essentially assured the Astros won't make a major free-agent splash. Earning $28 million next year, he's comfortably the team's richest player. Dallas Keuchel could aim for a similar haul next year, and Jose Altuve will demand superstar money once baseball's best bargain hits the open market after 2019.
A left-handed reliever is Houston's biggest unsolved need. If the AL West champions have no interest in sacrificing prospects for Britton or Brad Hand, it will find a handful of free-agent alternatives in McGee, Tony Watson, Oliver Perez and Zach Duke. Mike Minor would top the list if he and the Kansas City Royals don't exercise a $10 million mutual option. 
After hitting .231/.283/.383 with minus-1.1 WAR, Beltran may have reached the end of the line. If the 40-year-old pushes off retirement, the Astros could bring him back as a cheap bench bat. Evan Gattis is a better designated hitter anyway, but he could also platoon with a left-handed free agent or Yulieski Gurriel, a right-hander with a career .661 OPS against southpaws.
They don't have many needs, so perhaps they sign two cheap left-handed relievers rather than one expensive specialist. Bringing back Gregerson or another righty would be a nice, but it'd be an unnecessary luxury following Joe Musgrove's successful transition to the bullpen.

First Wish: Convince Free Agents to Stay
Second Wish: Hope at Least One Top Hitter Stays
Third Wish: Replace Those Who Leave 
Rather than planning beyond 2017, the Royals took one last shot and missed. The ramifications could shatter their franchise.
Hosmer, Mike Moustakas and Lorenzo Cain will all demand huge raises. Kansas City, a midmarket organization, already has over $103 miillion in 2018 payroll before sending closer Kelvin Herrera into his final year of arbitration.
There's virtually no chance of the Royals retaining all three stars. Two isn't probable. They must hope to least avoid catastrophe by keeping one fixture.
According to Heyman, the Royals "love" Hosmer and are prepared to make a "serious offer" to their first baseman. They won't stand a chance if agent Scott Boras gets his way. Per Sam Mellinger of the Kansas City Star, an NL executive expects the agent to pursue an eight-year, $200 million contract for the career .283/.342/.439 hitter.
This might be a bad time to add that Alcides Escobar, Jason Vargas and Melky Cabrera are also free agents. Minor can join them by declining the mutual option.
If a doomsday scenario befalls the Royals, they should switch to discount targets and commence the rebuild that would have behooved them in July. The lineup is likely to endure at least two major downgrades requiring a short-term remedy.

First Wish: Corner Infielders
Second Wish: Second Baseman
Third Wish: Left Fielder (If Justin Upton Opts Out) 
Allow Los Angeles Angels manager Mike Scioscia to identify the Los Angeles Angels' offseason priority.
"The obvious talking point this winter is going to be our offense," Scioscia said, per the Los Angeles Times' Pedro Moura. 
Indeed. The Angels finished with an AL-low .307 wOBA, which is awful considering Mike Trout hit .306/.442/.629. Justin Upton and Brandon Phillips did not propel them into the offseason, and both can exit if the former opts out of the remaining four years and $88.5 million left on his deal.
Their first basemen ranked last in wOBA, and third baseman Yunel Escobar will also test free agency. If Upton stays, they need to go dumpster diving for infield help, as he, Trout, Albert Pujols and Andrelton Simmons would make nearly $94 million next year. They can at least shed salary by buying out Ricky Nolasco's and Huston Street's club options for $1 million each.
If Upton heads elsewhere, the Angels could then target Hosmer and Moustakas. Phillips, Duda, Neil Walker and Todd Frazier are more sensible options, with Trout and Pujols hooked to enormous long-term deals.
The pitching staff is no juggernaut, but the young unit could improve considerably. If healthy, Garrett Richards, Tyler Skaggs, Andrew Heaney and Parker Bidwell would form a competitive rotation in 2018.
A lineup led by a perennial MVP candidate needs to become a strength. Or at least not a liability.

First Wish: Lineup Depth
Second Wish: Re-Sign Brandon Morrow
Third Wish: Starting Pitching Depth 
Even if they lose Darvish, the Los Angeles Dodgers still have Clayton Kershaw, Rich Hill, Alex Wood, Kenta Maeda and Hyun-Jin Ryu. Julio Urias could return from shoulder surgery late next year, and Walker Buehler could work his way into the rotation.
They also will pay $17.7 million to Scott Kazmir and $11.5 million to Brandon McCarthy, so re-signing Darvish doesn't seem like a safe bet despite the franchise's deep pockets. If they watched Greinke sign with a division rival after posting a 1.66 ERA, how much loyalty will they show to a rental who underwent Tommy John surgery in 2015?
Kershaw led the rotation with 175 innings pitched, so they might continue to stockpile their organization with arms as insurance. Yet any signing will probably be of far lesser stature than Darvish. 
Their starting lineup might already be set if they trust Joc Pederson to bounce back in a platoon with Enrique Hernandez. If not, Alex Verdugo could earn a starting job alongside Chris Taylor or Yasiel Puig. 
Signing a corner outfielder to replace Granderson isn't necessary, but they will want an extra bench bat or two with Chase Utley also entering free agency. The Dodgers will almost certainly buy out Andre Ethier's $17.5 million club option, so they can easily afford one new infielder and outfielder.
Prioritizing Brandon Morrow over Darvish may appear certifiably insane. He's a 33-year-old with a long injury past who didn't stick in the rotation. He also found new life in the bullpen, recording 50 strikeouts, nine walks and a 2.06 ERA in 43.2 innings. 
The righty has continued to demonstrate his value as a setup man to Kenley Jansen during the postseason, during which he has yielded one run and two hits over 6.1 innings. He shouldn't cost a fortune due to a limited track record, but he has delivered elite production since late May. 
While the Dodgers are deep enough to survive losing any of their free agents, retaining Morrow would help their bullpen maintain 2017's NL-best 3.38 ERA.

First Wish: Cheap Starting Pitching
Second Wish: Cheap Shortstop
Third Wish: Cheap Relief Pitching 
Unless the Miami Marlins move Giancarlo Stanton, it's difficult to see them adding any more significant salary.
The star slugger's salary skyrockets from $14.5 to $25 million next year, giving the organization $95.3 million in payroll before handling arbitration for Marcell Ozuna, J.T. Realmuto, Dan Straily, Justin Bour, Derek Dietrich and Miguel Rojas. MLB Trade Rumors projected those six receiving $27.5 million. 
Last year's $115.4 million Opening Day payroll was astronomical for their standards, and new ownership has reportedly indicated a desire to diminish their player investment. According to Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald, owners Derek Jeter and Bruce Sherman proposed slashing the payroll to $90 million in their operation plan filed to MLB.
Trading Stanton still would not lower them below the $90 million threshold, so Miami must trade multiple players before seriously exploring free agency. And if they're cleaning house, that means another rebuild should lessen any desire to sign veterans.
Edinson Volquez undergoing Tommy John surgery makes a veteran starting pitcher their top need, but they likely must settle for someone at the bottom of the barrel. They can use a shortstop after trading Adeiny Hechavarria to the Tampa Bay Rays, but the market is bleak beyond Cozart, who is out of their price range anyway.
If they can find a taker for Junichi Tazawa and/or Brad Ziegler, a discount reliever would make a more pressing concern since they dealt David Phelps and AJ Ramos during the season.
Don't expect Miami to sign anyone exciting.

First Wish: Relief Pitching
Second Wish: Starting Pitching
Third Wish: Second Baseman 
The Milwaukee Brewers did not need free agency to turn around their franchise. Recruiting Eric Thames from Korea was the biggest signing of their rebuild, and he now joins Ryan Braun as the only players under contract before arbitration.
Payroll flexibility makes Milwaukee a sneaky candidate to snag some impact free agents. While landing an Arrieta, Darvish or Davis remains a long shot based on past spending habits, it should pursue midtier options to bump an 86-win squad into playoff territory. 
Ace Jimmy Nelson will miss part of 2018 with a shoulder injury suffered late in September. The bullpen also lacks a stable setup man.
Josh Hader will help on one of those fronts, so the wish list's order depends on how Milwaukee plans to use him. While the rookie lefty registered a 2.08 ERA and 68 strikeouts in 47.2 innings from the bullpen, his future still belongs in the rotation.
While the lineup is largely set, Walker and Eric Sogard could create an opening at second base by both leaving. It would behoove the Brewers to retain at least one of them following Jonathan Villar's disappointing campaign.
According to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel's Tom Haudricourt, Sogard and Swarzak each "expressed keen interest in returning." Keeping Swarzak should be a top priority, as he submitted a 2.33 ERA in 77.1 frames for the White Sox and Brewers. He gives them a high-leverage bridge to Corey Knebel, which could ease their comfort in sliding Hader into a starting role.

First Wish: Pitching
Second Wish: Pitching
Third Wish: Pitching 
A year after tallying baseball's worst record, the Minnesota Twins gave the New York Yankees an early scare in the AL Wild Card Game. They got there because of a torrid offense that ranked third behind the Cubs and Rockies in wOBA after the All-Star break. 
That was despite missing star slugger Miguel Sano for over a month. A young, cheap offense will return around Joe Mauer, who hit .305/.384/.417 in the penultimate year of a megacontract. There's little to accomplish on the offensive end unless Brian Dozier is amenable to extending his contract, which expires next offseason.
Pitching is an entirely different story. The team finished No. 25 in FIP with MLB's second-lowest strikeout percentage. It didn't help that they traded Brandon Kintzler and regifted Garcia when a late-July losing streak persuaded them to sell.
They need one or two new starters behind Ervin Santana, Jose Berrios and Kyle Gibson. Matt Belisle and Dillon Gee, two of their most productive second-half relievers, are free agents. 
Courtesy of the Pioneer Press' Mike Berardino, Twins owner Jim Pohlad is well aware of their weakness.
"There's no question we have work to do on the pitching," Pohlad said. "It's just absolutely obvious. It has to be added, for sure, whether it comes from within or without. You won't know the within part until the season develops."
A bullpen founded on finesse would benefit greatly from signing one or two power pitchers. Maybe they can bring Garcia back for more than a week as a back-end rotation upgrade. They risk backpedaling back to mediocrity without bolstering their pitching staff.

First Wish: Infielder
Second Wish: Durable Starting Pitcher
Third Wish: Relief Pitching 
The New York Mets' wish list may run deeper than three lines.
A nightmare season compelled them to trade pending free agents Duda, Bruce, Granderson, Walker and Reed. Jose Reyes will follow them all on the open market.
A starting rotation that was supposed to dominate is now a major question mark. They must hope Noah Syndergaard can return to form a lethal duo alongside Jacob deGrom, but Matt Harvey (6.70 ERA) and Steven Matz (6.08 ERA) struggled mightily when on the mound.
Along with Seth Lugo locking down a spot, a unit ravaged by injuries can use a steady veteran akin to the role Bartolo Colon filled from 2014 to 2016. The bullpen brandished the NL's worst ERA (4.82), and replacing Reed with Ramos marks a downgrade.
The lineup is an even messier situation. Although Michael Conforto might not be ready for Opening Day, Brandon Nimmo earned the right to cover the rising star after wielding a .379 on-base percentage. Given their defensive woes, starting Juan Lagares in center field is wiser than bringing back Bruce or another corner outfielder
Outfield did not make the cut, but Mets general manager Sandy Alderson could potentially think otherwise. Constructing an infield around budding shortstop Amed Rosario is a greater concern.
The Mets can accept Asdrubal Cabrera's $8.5 million club option to start at second or third. Wilmer Flores will likely platoon with him or Dominic Smith, who hit .196/.262/.395 with minus-0.6 WAR during his debut.  
Whether it's Frazier handling the hot corner or Walker returning to play second (or both), they need at least one more infielder to put the offense back on track.

First Wish: Starting Pitching
Second Wish: Corner Infielder/Designated Hitter
Third Wish: Starting Pitching
Whether or not Masahiro Tanaka opts out of his remaining three years worth $67 million, starting pitching is the Yankees' utmost concern.
That's partly because they have no other weaknesses. They ranked third in wOBA behind Houston and Cleveland despite playing most of 2017 without Greg Bird, who has fueled their postseason offense with three homers.
Although they will probably want to keep or replace Todd Frazier and Matt Holliday, even that is not a necessity. Chase Headley can slide back to third with a crowded outfield of Aaron Judge, Brett Gardner, Aaron Hicks, Jacoby Ellsbury and Clint Frazier taking turns at designated hitter.
Their stacked bullpen isn't cheap, as Aroldis Chapman and David Robertson will make a combined $30.2 million in 2018. If Tanaka stays, the Evil Empire may play it safe in free agency to avoid soaring over the luxury tax.
Yet CC Sabathia's expiring contract still creates at least one opening behind Tanaka, Luis Severino and Sonny Gray. If they're ready to trust Chance Adams with a big league role, re-signing Sabathia for one or two years would keep them afloat. Although the same can be said for everyone, signing Otani is their feasible dream scenario.
Yankees fans are accustomed to big splashes, but these aren't the 2009 champions powered by hired mercenaries. General manager Brian Cashman and Co. have constructed a playoff squad sooner than anticipated with shrewd trades and player development. They should not betray that progress to overpay Hosmer, Moustakas, Arrieta or Darvish.
Besides, they will want to save up for when Bryce Harper, Machado, Kershaw and Josh Donaldson headline next offseason's remarkable free-agent class.

First Wish: Center Fielder
Second Wish: Pitching
Third Wish: Catcher 
Although the Oakland Athletics' frugality helped inspired a book and movie, even they need to spend some money.
When they pick up Jed Lowrie's club option, they will owe him, Matt Joyce and Santiago Casilla $6 million each. With Khris Davis due a raise following a 43-homer season, MLB Trade Rumors expects them to pay $25.1 million to eight arbitration-eligible players.
Having started each of the last four seasons with a payroll between $81 and $87 million, they have enough financial resources to round up some veterans. This does not mean they're chasing stars. They're simply looking for this year's versions of Lowrie, Joyce and Alonso.
Rookies Matt Olson and Matt Chapman led their offense to MLB's fifth-best wOBA (.334) after the All-Star break, but their center fielders finished 2017 with minus-0.6 WAR. While Oakland tends to chase on-base fiends on sale because of limited contact and athleticism, it should reverse course and sign a plus defender to mitigate Davis' and Joyce's shortcomings at the corners. Dyson fits perfectly as a platoon partner for Jake Smolinski.
With Stephen Vogt gone, Oakland should also explore the catcher market. Avila or Chris Iannetta would provide a power spark. Rene Rivera, who had a solid season (.252/.305/.431) in the batter's box, would guide a young rotation behind the plate.
Speaking of pitching, Oakland's 4.70 ERA placed No. 21 in the majors. Finding the right veteran starter and bullpen depth could turn the 75-win team into a wild-card sleeper.

First Wish: Starting Pitching
Second Wish: Relief Pitching
Third Wish: Veteran Depth Bat 
Odubel Herrera's $3.35 million marks the Philadelphia Phillies' only guaranteed salary. They entered last year with a $100 million payroll.
They can go on a spending spree if they please, but they should preserve flexibility for next year's star-studded class. Even on the heels of Rhys Hoskins' astounding debut, they're not ready to start the next phase of their rebuild.
Strong opening results from Hoskins, Nick Williams and Jorge Alfaro erase the need to sign any short-term starting position players. Third base remains a problem area, but shortstop J.P. Crawford spent most of his time there in September. If the prospect regains shortstop from Freddy Galvin, perhaps Cesar Hernandez could slide over if Scott Kingery seizes control of second.
So instead of offering a huge contract to Moustakas, who notched a .314 on-base percentage and 2.2 WAR along with 38 homers, they should settle for a veteran willing to play a limited role and guide a young clubhouse. Perhaps they can orchestrate a reunion with Werth or Howie Kendrick.
Pitching, however, should consume their attention. Last year, they paid Hellickson the $17.2 million qualifying offer and acquired Clay Buchholz to steer a young starting staff. They will try again this winter to fill the rotation behind Aaron Nola and Jerad Eickhoff.
While Lynn or Cobb could be in play, they should avoid a costly long-term risk by pursuing midtier options such as Vargas and Tyler Chatwood.
After hitting the jackpot in an offseason trade for Neshek, the Phillies cashed out by sending him to the Rockies. Rather than pay for his All-Star campaign, they should take some chances on Gregerson or Joe Blanton enjoying a bounce-back season on a short deal.
If their young players continue to progress in 2018, the Phillies can then start dreaming big.

First Wish: Cheap Relief Pitching
Second Wish: Power-Hitting Infielder
Third Wish: A Bigger Budget 
Unless the Pittsburgh Pirates unload Andrew McCutchen, they don't have much money to spend in free agency. And if they trade a franchise icon to save cash, why would they turn around and buy lesser players?
Signing outside help is not in Pittsburgh's M.O. Beyond the team retaining Ivan Nova, Daniel Hudson marked last year's marquee acquisition.
The bullpen still bears room for improvement, but their treatment of Juan Nicasio indicated little willingness to open their pockets for another reliever. They placed the pending free agent on revocable waivers and watched him go to the St. Louis Cardinals. Per the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette's Stephen J. Nesbitt, general manager Neal Huntington said he wanted to play someone who factors into their 2018 plans. 
They could use a reliever like Nicasio, but he apparently pitched himself out of their price range by posting six saves, a 2.61 ERA and 72 strikeouts in 72.1 innings. A deep crop gives them plenty of cheaper, but flimsier alternatives to fill the middle innings.
Pittsburgh's position players are all fine, but they together belted baseball's second-fewest home runs (151) and third-worst wOBA. Since they don't have the means to fix this by enlisting Moustakas or even a Walker reunion, their options are limited.

First Wish: Starting Pitching
Second Wish: Shortstop
Third Wish: Anything 
A 71-91 record undersells how bad the San Diego Padres were in 2017. 
They finished last in scoring and tied the Texas Rangers for the ninth-most runs allowed. Their minus-212 run differential gave them a 59-103 expected record, so don't mistake them as a young team on the rise.
San Diego is still awful. Don't expect the Padres to do much about it.
In a similar spot last year, they brought in Jhoulys Chacin and Trevor Cahill on one-year deals that both paid dividends. Unless Chacin is convinced he needs Petco Park after registering a 1.79 home ERA and 6.53 ERA on the road, they will probably fill his spot with a cheaper placeholder.
Moving Yangervis Solarte to shortstop is not a long-term solution, so even Reyes or Alcides Escobar would marginally help. General manager A.J. Preller acknowledged the need for outside help, per MLB.com's AJ Cassavell.
"We'll look at the guys available in free agency and possible trades," Preller said. "And then we've got to weigh that out versus some guys who are starting to come through the pipeline that we feel are Major League shortstops."
The Padres probably won't spend much until rising closer to contention, but a minimal payroll allows them to sign some short-term pieces if desired.

First Wish: Third Baseman
Second Wish: Center Fielder
Third Wish: Affordable Relief Pitching 
The San Francisco's two biggest needs happen to align with two of Kansas City's top free agents.
Their third basemen, a role aptly filled by Nunez before a midseason trade, collectively batted .229/.284/.333 with 19 homers and minus-1.8 WAR. No team hit fewer home runs (128) with a lower slugger percentage (.380), so Moustakas would fit perfectly if money was not a factor.
Money, of course, is always a factor, and seven Giants will earn over $15 million from them in 2018. (The Red Sox are on the hook for nearly all of Pablo Sandoval's salary.) Moustakas would add another name to that alarming list.
They also need a center fielder who can play the position, as Denard Span submitted minus-27 Defensive Runs Saved. The 33-year-old should move to left field, where the Giants received no offensive production.
If not for their financial constraints, Cain would be another ideal target. Maybe Maybin is more in their price range.
While Mark Melancon has not given San Francisco the shutdown reliever it desired, he will still net $20 million next year regardless. He has not fixed the club's leaky bullpen, but general manager Bobby Evans should not repeat last year's mistake and overpay another closer.

First Wish: First Baseman
Second Wish: Outfielder
Third Wish: Pitching Depth 
Pitching topped the Seattle Mariners' whiteboard this summer, when general manager Jerry Dipoto acquired Mike Leake, David Phelps, Erasmo Ramirez and Marco Gonzales. He can now devote that energy to assembling a playoff-quality lineup.
It won't require grand-scale changes, as he already has a strong foundation in Nelson Cruz, Robinson Cano and Kyle Seager. Mike Zunino and Mitch Haniger also exploded down the stretch, so Seattle could field a top-10 offense by locating a quality first baseman and outfielder.
Luckily for Dipoto, there's a high supply and limited demand for free-agent first basemen. He should retain Alonso or sign Duda or Morrison without breaking the bank.
As for the outfield, last year's concerted effort to upgrade defensively yielded baseball's fifth-best DRS but third-worst wOBA. They must now work to establish a happy compromise.
Per MyNorthWest.com's Shannon Drayer, Dipoto plans to add another outfielder but not necessarily a center fielder to replace Dyson. He expressed confidence in Haniger handling center, which would allow him to chase a corner outfielder with more pop.
With Leake owed $17 million next year, any pitching additions will likely be of the organizational-depth variety. Perhaps they bring in someone else to vie for the final rotation spot or a middle-inning bullpen role, but they can capitalize on a market that has deprioritized the type of position players they need.

First Wish: Relief Pitching
Second Wish: Starting Pitcher
Third Wish: Josh Donaldson One Year Early
St. Louis is deep for a team that missed the postseason. After finishing No. 10 in wOBA and No. 8 in FIP, the NL Central club might consider itself one or two substantial moves away from catching the Cubs or at least a wild-card spot.
In addition to trading Leake in August, the Cardinals could lose Lynn, Nicasio, Duke and Seung Hwan Oh in free agency. Trevor Rosenthal underwent Tommy John surgery in late August, so they must completely revamp their bullpen around southpaws Tyler Lyons and Brett Cecil. Davis or Holland could headline that transformation.
If Lynn signs elsewhere, he leaves the rotation is good hands. Brandishing a 3.38 FIP in 18 career MLB starts, Luke Weaver is ready to form a formidable trio alongside Carlos Martinez and Michael Wacha. They will hope to wring decent innings out of Wacha while potentially awarding the No. 5 slot to rookie Jack Flaherty.
Some depth will help, but don't expect them to open their checkbook for Lynn. MLB.com's Jenifer Langosch wrote that "it does not appear as if Lynn is on their list of targets." She said a younger starter or temporary veteran acquisition will likely take his place.
Given their depth, any offensive upgrade must be significant, a la Donaldson or any of Miami's outfielders. Martinez is the only free agent who qualifies, and St. Louis already has plenty of outfielders.
In a separate article, Langosch also said the Cardinals will shop their surplus of outfielders. They may successfully sidestep free agency in favor of trades, especially if the Toronto Blue Jays make their star third baseman available.

First Wish: Keep Logan Morrison or Lucas Duda
Second Wish: Reload Bullpen
Third Wish: Cheap Replacement for Alex Cobb 
Tampa Bay isn't known to open its wallet. Then again, buying during the summer also signified a steep departure from the norm. 
The Rays must replace several free agents. One of the winter's top five available starters, Cobb is probably a goner. Duda, Morrison, Steve Cishek, Tommy Hunter, Sergio Romo, Colby Rasmus and Trevor Plouffe will pitch their services across baseball.
Morrison probably played his way out of St. Petersburg by smashing 38 home runs. MLB.com's Bill Chastain called the idea of the 30-year-old staying with the Rays a "long shot." In that case, they should work to woo Duda, whose 30 long balls and .818 OPS may come at less cost because of a .217 batting average and multiple injuries suffered over the past three seasons.
They are also in danger of losing ample bullpen production. Cishek and Romo both paid major dividends when joining Tampa Bay. Hunter emerged as their premier setup man by recording a 2.61 ERA and 64 strikeouts in 58.2 innings. They all bolstered their value, complicating the Rays' chances of preserving the fortified unit.
Replacing Cobb presents less of an obstacle, as unleashing Brent Honeywell seems like the simple solution. Any free-agent signing would be a one-year rental to augment that top prospect and Jake Faria. It could take higher precedence if the Rays trade Chris Archer or Jake Odorizzi.

First Wish: Bring Back Yu Darvish (Or Another Top SP)
Second Wish: More Starting Pitching
Third Wish: Outfielder 
After averaging 88 wins per season from 2010 to 2016—a stretch including five playoff trips and consecutive World Series appearances—the Rangers fell into mediocrity and traded Darvish. A return to the playoffs hinges on escorting the ace back to Arlington.
Texas' pitching staff posted a 5.04 FIP and MLB-worst 16.3 strikeout percentage despite receiving 22 starts from Darvish. Cole Hamels, who submitted a 4.20 ERA, 105 strikeouts and 53 walks in 148 underwhelming innings, is no longer a front-line starter qualified to carry a middling staff.
The Rangers need a top hurler and one or two additional starters to fill the rotation. Perhaps that means retaining Andrew Cashner in spite of his minuscule 3.1 strikeouts-minus-walks percentage, the lowest rate of any qualified starter in 2017. Martin Perez, currently the team's second starter, tallied the second-worst clip.
Considered a strong contender for Otani, they might need him more than anyone. As noted by Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan, the incoming two-way sensation wore Darvish's number on his old Japanese squad. The Rangers' "sterling" reputation that is fortified by the former Rangers ace could help them woo the 23-year-old, whom the AL West club started recruiting in 2012. 
If Carlos Gomez signs elsewhere, Texas should find a replacement. It can be a corner outfielder if they are comfortable handing center field to Delino DeShields Jr., as 35-year-old Shin-Soo Choo is better served as the designated hitter.
Cain fits, but his salary won't if Texas succeeds in signing a top-shelf starter. Inking Gomez to another one-year deal in line with 2017's $11.5 million is likely the best solution.

First Wish: Jose Bautista's Right-Field Replacement
Second Wish: Middle Infielder
Third Wish: Back-End Starting Pitching 
While the Blue Jays enter the offseason at a crossroad, one thing regarding their uncertain future looks clear: Jose Bautista won't be a part of it.
Toronto declined an $18 million mutual option with the slugger, now a free agent who can play elsewhere for the first time since 2008. Finding someone who boasts the same popularity and bat-flipping acumen will be virtually impossible. Replacing his 2017 production, on the other hand, will be easy.
Most available outfielders can top his .295 wOBA and minus-0.5 WAR. At this stage of their careers, Granderson provides a similar skill set at a higher level. As they hope for a bounce-back from Troy Tulowitzki, former Rockies teammate Gonzalez is a viable buy-low option if he accepts a short-term arrangement.
Devon Travis will develop into a franchise mainstay if he stays on the field. He has played 213 games over three years, so the Blue Jays can't hold their breath. They need a better insurance policy than Ryan Goins and Darwin Barney.
Tulowitzki isn't a beacon of durability, either, so they can use someone like Nunez, Sogard or even Stephen Drew with experience manning both middle-infield positions.
Aaron Sanchez can restore Toronto's rotation as an above-average unit, but a No. 5 starter would provide more flexibility in the event of another injury. 
If everything breaks right, the Blue Jays can join the AL's wild-card frenzy next year. But those odds are low enough that they should instead consider shopping Donaldson and other veterans before they can leave next winter.

First Wish: Finish Bullpen Overhaul
Second Wish: Bench Bats
Third Wish: No. 5 Starter 
Washington could be ruined next offseason, so another swift playoff exit won't suffice in 2018.
Right as Harper, Murphy and Gio Gonzalez's contracts expire, Max Scherzer and Stephen Strasburg will each receive seismic raises to earn a combined $75.7 million in 2019. The Braves and Phillies, meanwhile, are biding their time with swarms of young talent.
If the Nationals are not careful, next season may be their last chance to win it all.
By acquiring Ryan Madson and Sean Doolittle, they repaired a desolate bullpen for both 2017 and 2018. They still must renovate the rest of the unit with Blanton, Kintzler, Perez and Matt Albers going into free agency.
Signing Davis or Holland, however, would be foolish considering their awaiting financial dilemma. If they want to succeed in October, they must explore more midlevel options like Morrow, Hunter, Nicasio and Smith.
Adam Eaton should return from an ACL injury to replace Werth in the starting lineup, and Michael Taylor has proven a worthwhile starter until top prospect Victor Robles is ready. While they don't need to splurge for another big bat, they may require an entirely new bench to replace Kendrick, Ryan Raburn and Jose Lobaton. After hitting .303/.363/.513 in a limited role, Adam Lind may decline a $5 million mutual option to pursue more playing time elsewhere.
Given their win-now predicament, Washington should not pinch pennies for offensive depth. It should welcome back Lind with open arms if he exercises his end of the clause. Kendrick's versatility proved a valuable asset behind a lineup suffering injuries to Eaton, Harper and Trea Turner alongside frequent day-to-day ailments plaguing Murphy and Ryan Zimmerman.
A No. 5 starter is another story. With Scherzer and Strasburg paid handsomely to form baseball's best one-two punch, a fill-in for the injured Joe Ross can merely be an innings-eating stopgap. After all, Washington won the NL East by 20 games last year.
Before worrying about losing Harper and Murphy, its primary concern is building a team best suited for a long postseason run.
        
Note: All advanced stats courtesy of FanGraphs unless otherwise noted. Contract information obtained from Cot's Baseball Contracts.



The Los Angeles Dodgers were the best team in Major League Baseball throughout the 2017 season with a 104-58 record and are yet to lose a single game in the playoffs.
Now all they need to do is beat the champion Chicago Cubs one time in the next four contests to advance to their first World Series since 1988.
Los Angeles took a commanding 3-0 lead in the National League Championship Series with Tuesday's dominant 6-1 victory and has the chance to close Chicago out in Wednesday's Game 4.
With that in mind, here is a look at the information for the contest, as well as a prediction.
              
National League Championship Series Game 4 Information
Date: Wednesday, Oct. 18
Time: 9 p.m. ET, per MLB.com
TV: TBS
Ticket Information: Tickets can be found on StubHub
              
Preview and Prediction

The only argument for picking the Cubs even in a single game at this point would border on cliche.
This team proved it doesn't quit last year when it overcame a 2-1 deficit in the NLCS against the Dodgers and a 3-1 deficit in the World Series against the Cleveland Indians. It also overcame a three-run deficit in Game 5 of this season's National League Division Series against the Washington Nationals.
However, Los Angeles has been simply dominant in the NLCS rematch.
The Dodgers have won every game by at least three runs and holds a 15-4 advantage in total runs scored through three contests. They also have a shutdown bullpen that is yet to allow a single run all series, meaning they can shorten the game by establishing a lead through the first five or six innings.
Scott Miller of Bleacher Report detailed just how ugly things have gotten for the Cubs against the bullpen during Game 3:
Cubs now 0 for 29 vs Dodgers bullpen in this NLCS. Lotta fans leaving Wrigley Field now
Chicago's last hope falls on the shoulders of 2015 NL Cy Young winner Jake Arrieta. While that sounds promising in theory, he dealt with a hamstring injury in September, allowed five runs (three earned) in three innings in his final regular-season start and walked five while allowing an unearned run in just four innings in his one start in the series against Washington.
He has been far from the dominant force who posted a 1.77 ERA and 0.86 WHIP in 2015 and finished the 2017 campaign with a 3.53 ERA and 1.22 WHIP.
The Dodgers will counter with Alex Wood, who has never started a postseason game in his career and sports a 4.91 ERA in four playoff relief appearances.
Don't let the playoff numbers fool you, though. Wood was a revelation for the Dodgers' starting staff in 2017 and finished with a career-best ERA (2.72) and WHIP (1.06) with 151 strikeouts in 152.1 innings.
Having someone like that in a rotation already featuring Clayton Kershaw, Yu Darvish and Rich Hill is a clear indication of how the Dodgers were able to play at such an effective clip in 2017.
The formula is already in place for Los Angeles to win Wednesday's contest, and it will follow it straight into the World Series. Look for the Dodgers to push a couple of early runs across against the 2017 version of Arrieta and rely on Wood to make them hold up through the middle innings.
From there, the likes of Brandon Morrow, Tony Watson, Tony Cingrani and Kenta Maeda can continue overmatching the Cubs hitters before Kenley Jansen gets the ball in the ninth.
Jansen, as he so often does, will shut the door in the final frame and put an end to Chicago's World Series title defense.
Prediction: Dodgers 4, Cubs 1



After completing its tour around the infield at third base, Bleacher Report's final positional power rankings for the 2017 Major League Baseball season now heads to the mound to check in with the top starting pitchers.
It was something of a lean year for starters, as they were hit hard by the home run surge and finished with their worst ERA since 2009. But while only half got full write-ups, there are still 80 hurlers worth discussing.
Here are the ground rules:
The rankings were a simple judgment call. Baseball Reference's version of wins above replacement was useful in this respect but was treated more as a guideline than the word of the baseball gods. 
Lastly, this was neither a far-reaching retrospective nor a gaze into the future. Only what happened in 2017 counted.

In the year 2017, it's ill-advised and arguably irresponsible to talk about players in detail without using statistics to contextualize their talents and shortcomings.
So, be warned: There are indeed statistics in these rankings.
Many stats will simply be alluded to via links that go to relevant data at Baseball Reference, FanGraphs, Baseball Savant, Brooks Baseball and Baseball Prospectus. But a few to know are...
                                        
Wins Above Replacement (WAR): Baseball Reference's WAR for pitchers is centered around innings pitched and runs allowed. It's a simple yet practical starting point for assessing pitchers' quality.
Adjusted Earned Run Average (ERA+): This stat adjusts a pitcher's ERA for league and ballpark factors and puts it on a scale where 100 is average. The further over 100 a pitcher goes, the better.
On-Base Plus Slugging Plus (OPS+): This does the same thing for OPS allowed that ERA+ does for ERA. In the case of pitchers, it shows how well they suppressed hitting relative to their peers. The further below 100 their number is, the better.
Plate Discipline: Things like Zone% (percentage of pitches in the strike zone), Contact% (percentage of swings that made contact) and assorted swing rates allow for a snapshot of how pitchers attacked hitters and bent them to their will. These figures are available at FanGraphs.
Batted Ball Types: FanGraphs has rates for ground balls (GB%), line drives (LD%), fly balls (FB%) and pop-ups (IFFB%). Generally speaking, high GB% and IFFB% rates are good, while high FB% rates are bad.
Contact Quality: FanGraphs also breaks the quality of contact off pitchers into three categories: Soft%, Medium% and Hard%. High Soft% and low Hard% rates are best.
Exit Velocity (EV): A Statcast specialty that measures the speed of the ball off hitters' bats. It's another way to gauge how well pitchers suppress loud contact. The MLB average in 2017 was 86.6 miles per hour.

80. Matt Boyd, Detroit Tigers
26 G, 135 IP, 7.3 K/9, 3.5 BB/9, 1.2 HR/9, 116 OPS+, 5.27 ERA, 87 ERA+, 1.3 WAR
Matt Boyd's ERA looks ugly, but he got no help from teammates who were terrible at securing strikes and fielding balls in play. Boyd himself showed a talent for living on the edges and at inducing soft contact. He deserved a kinder fate.
                                                     
79. Jameson Taillon, Pittsburgh Pirates
25 G, 133.2 IP, 8.4 K/9, 3.1 BB/9, 0.7 HR/9, 111 OPS+, 4.44 ERA, 97 ERA+, 1.4 WAR
The fact that Jameson Taillon is even listed here following a year in which he lost time to testicular cancer is a feat unto itself. When on the mound, he only had one bad stretch in July and August. Otherwise, his blazing fastball and sharp curveball were good for collecting strikeouts and suppressing hard contact.
                              
78. Johnny Cueto, San Francisco Giants
25 G, 147.1 IP, 8.3 K/9, 3.2 BB/9, 1.3 HR/9, 120 OPS+, 4.52 ERA, 93 ERA+, 1.8 WAR
Johnny Cueto's season was marred by injuries and the downfall of his changeup, which got knocked around at a rate not seen since his rookie year in 2008. He was generally good for six innings when he did pitch, however, and the San Francisco Giants' awful defense does share some blame for his struggles.
                                                
77. Rick Porcello, Boston Red Sox
33 G, 203.1 IP, 8.0 K/9, 2.1 BB/9, 1.7 HR/9, 113 OPS+, 4.65 ERA, 98 ERA+, -0.2 WAR
All the bad breaks that Rick Porcello avoided in his American League Cy Young-winning 2016 found him in 2017, as both his HR/9 and average on balls in play skyrocketed. But he at least kept his exit velocity static and was one of just 15 pitchers to top 200 innings.
                          
76. Lance McCullers, Houston Astros
22 G, 118.2 IP, 10.0 K/9, 3.0 BB/9, 0.6 HR/9, 95 OPS+, 4.25 ERA, 93 ERA+, 0.9 WAR
Health and consistency once again got between Lance McCullers and stardom, but he continued to tease how big a star he could be. With elite spin and velocity (especially on his curveball) working for him, he was tough to make contact against and to square up for good contact.
75. Kenta Maeda, Los Angeles Dodgers
29 G, 134.1 IP, 9.4 K/9, 2.3 BB/9, 1.5 HR/9, 91 OPS+, 4.22 ERA, 99 ERA+, 0.5 WAR
Between an efficient defense, great catching and a manager in Dave Roberts who generally only asked for five innings, Kenta Maeda lived a charmed life in 2017. But despite the homers he gave up, his strikeout and walk rates and 85.0 mph exit velocity are evidence of how much he baffled hitters with command and movement.
74. Eduardo Rodriguez, Boston Red Sox
25 G, 137.1 IP, 9.8 K/9, 3.3 BB/9, 1.2 HR/9, 91 OPS+, 4.19 ERA, 109 ERA+, 1.8 WAR
Eduardo Rodriguez had trouble lasting longer than five or six innings, but his high strikeout rate is one reason why they were mostly good frames. His fastball-changeup-slider combo has always had promise. He was simply better at making those pitches work together for the sake of evading contact.
                            
73. Sean Manaea, Oakland Athletics
29 G, 158.2 IP, 7.9 K/9, 3.1 BB/9, 1.0 HR/9, 107 OPS+, 4.37 ERA, 97 ERA+, 1.7 WAR
Not many of Sean Manaea's numbers jump off the page, and there's an argument that he was fortunate throughout 2017. Hitters did well when they made contact off him, averaging 88.9 mph in exit velocity. But since making contact was the hard part, he didn't come by his innings by accident.
                   
72. Chad Kuhl, Pittsburgh Pirates
31 G, 157.1 IP, 8.1 K/9, 4.1 BB/9, 1.0 HR/9, 112 OPS+, 4.35 ERA, 99 ERA+, 1.6 WAR
Chad Kuhl didn't do himself any favors with all those free passes, but his wildness is also one of several things that made him an uncomfortable at-bat. His fastball and slider were among the hardest in the game. Hitters had a tough time hitting them to their pull side, where power is most prevalent.
                     
71. Jaime Garcia, New York Yankees
27 G, 157 IP, 7.4 K/9, 3.7 BB/9, 1.0 HR/9, 103 OPS+, 4.41 ERA, 99 ERA+, 1.4 WAR
By his standards, any year in which Jaime Garcia can stay healthy is a good year. While he was hardly a model of consistency in 2017, he once again featured a movement-rich arsenal headlined by his sinker. That earned him an elite 54.8 GB% that helped keep him mostly effective.

70. Cole Hamels, Texas Rangers
24 G, 148 IP, 6.4 K/9, 3.2 BB/9, 1.1 HR/9, 80 OPS+, 4.20 ERA, 112 ERA+, 2.8 WAR
That's a good lookin' WAR, but it masks how Cole Hamels had to dodge a low strikeout rate and high hard-hit rate in 2017. His stuff is no longer what it once was. His trusty changeup isn't totally diminished, however, as it continued to help him get through life with whiffs and ground balls.
69. German Marquez, Colorado Rockies
29 G, 162 IP, 8.2 K/9, 2.7 BB/9, 1.4 HR/9, 101 OPS+, 4.39 ERA, 114 ERA+, 3.1 WAR
German Marquez spent more time in the strike zone than any qualified pitcher in 2017. He only used a fastball and a curveball to do it, but that's plenty when said fastball is a mid-90s thunderbolt and said curveball is a hammer. Now all he needs to do is learn how to suppress hard contact.
68. Clayton Richard, San Diego Padres
32 G, 197.1 IP, 6.9 K/9, 2.7 BB/9, 1.1 HR/9, 130 OPS+, 4.79 ERA, 86 ERA+, 0.4 WAR
Clayton Richard's first full season since 2012 was a chance for him to showcase his revamped arm slot. It's lower than it used to be, and a big benefit is even more sink on a sinker that already had plenty. He posted an elite 59.2 GB% and was a reliable, if somewhat volatile, workhorse.
                                     
67. Martin Perez, Texas Rangers
32 G, 185 IP, 5.6 K/9, 3.1 BB/9, 1.1 HR/9, 110 OPS+, 4.82 ERA, 97 ERA+, 2.0 WAR
Martin Perez is a five-pitch pitcher whose arsenal features plenty of movement but no real out pitch, so he pulls off the tough task of doing neither strikeouts nor walks well. But even though it's past its peak, he maintained a high enough GB% in 2017 to largely bypass the homer barrage and eat innings.
               
66. Masahiro Tanaka, New York Yankees
30 G, 178.1 IP, 9.8 K/9, 2.1 BB/9, 1.8 HR/9, 99 OPS+, 4.74 ERA, 96 ERA+, 1.1 WAR
Homers went from a small nuisance to a full-blown crisis for Masahiro Tanaka in 2017. But by maintaining his strong control despite throwing more sliders and splitters than fastballs, he drew more swings outside the zone than anyone. That kept his K/9 and BB/9 rates strong while also keeping hard contact at bay.
                                                
65. Julio Teheran, Atlanta Braves
32 G, 188.1 IP, 7.2 K/9, 3.4 BB/9, 1.5 HR/9, 107 OPS+, 4.49 ERA, 95 ERA+, 1.6 WAR
Julio Teheran lost it in 2015, found it in 2016 and lost it again in 2017. That had something to do with his being a fly-ball pitcher at a bad time and place for fly-ball pitchers. But he at least kept the innings coming, and the quality of contact against him was actually worse than it had been in 2016.
                                                
64. Jon Lester, Chicago Cubs
32 G, 180.2 IP, 9.0 K/9, 3.0 BB/9, 1.3 HR/9, 98 OPS+, 4.33 ERA, 100 ERA+, 0.8 WAR
One way to tell that Jon Lester was missing David Ross in 2017 is his rate of called strikes on the edges, which declined from 53.9 percent to 47.7 percent. It also didn't help that he lost velocity. But in collecting strikeouts and soft contact, he wasn't as meager as his results would suggest.
                                           
63. Madison Bumgarner, San Francisco Giants
17 G, 111 IP, 8.2 K/9, 1.6 BB/9, 1.4 HR/9, 89 OPS+, 3.32 ERA, 127 ERA+, 3.0 WAR
Madison Bumgarner's ill-gotten shoulder injury nixed half his season and ultimately hurt his velocity. Unsurprisingly, a K/9 rate that had been riding high cratered. But by keeping his superb command and introducing more movement via his cutter, the half of the year in which he did pitch was quite good.
                                                            
62. Tanner Roark, Washington Nationals
32 G, 181.1 IP, 8.2 K/9, 3.2 BB/9, 1.1 HR/9, 92 OPS+, 4.67 ERA, 94 ERA+, 1.2 WAR
Tanner Roark has been on a weird roller coaster over the last four seasons, but he didn't take as much of a nosedive in 2017 as his numbers suggest. Although he grooved a few too many fastballs, he spent a lot of time on the edges and continued to avoid hard contact.
                                         
61. Kevin Gausman, Baltimore Orioles
34 G, 186.2 IP, 8.6 K/9, 3.4 BB/9, 1.4 HR/9, 116 OPS+, 4.68 ERA, 93 ERA+, 1.9 WAR
After getting off to a terrible start, Kevin Gausman recovered with a 3.39 ERA over his final 19 outings. Shifting his position on the rubber and featuring his excellent splitter more often were the driving forces, boosting his strikeout rate and inviting more soft contact. Not a bad way to save face.

60. Jordan Montgomery, New York Yankees
29 G, 155.1 IP, 8.3 K/9, 3.0 BB/9, 1.2 HR/9, 79 OPS+, 3.88 ERA, 117 ERA+, 3.0 WAR
Jordan Montgomery might not have a plus pitch, but 2017 was his chance to show how he makes the most of what he has. His 6'6" frame and over-the-top delivery allow for an extreme release point, and he disguises his pitches well to boot. He earned strikeouts and suppressed hard contact.
                                   
59. Trevor Williams, Pittsburgh Pirates
31 G, 150.1 IP, 7.0 K/9, 3.1 BB/9, 0.8 HR/9, 92 OPS+, 4.07 ERA, 106 ERA+, 1.9 WAR
Trevor Williams got lit up for eight runs in his first start of 2017 but then put up a 3.65 ERA in 24 starts the rest of the way. His goal was to keep the ball low and away to lefties and righties. That earned him plenty of ground balls and soft contact and, on balance, a better season than his results indicate.
                            
58. Dan Straily, Miami Marlins
33 G, 181.2 IP, 8.4 K/9, 3.0 BB/9, 1.5 HR/9, 113 OPS+, 4.26 ERA, 96 ERA+, 1.6 WAR
Home runs are a fact of life for Dan Straily, but he's figured how to survive despite that. The rising action on his fastball combined with the action on his slider and changeup are handy tools for changing eye levels. In 2017, this allowed for enough strikeouts and pop-ups to get by.
                               
57. Ivan Nova, Pittsburgh Pirates
31 G, 187 IP, 6.3 K/9, 1.7 BB/9, 1.4 HR/9, 107 OPS+, 4.14 ERA, 104 ERA+, 2.2 WAR
Ivan Nova took up residence in the strike zone after joining the Pittsburgh Pirates in 2016, and that continued in 2017. His reward was one of MLB's lowest BB/9 rates. But via a .520 in-zone slugging percentage, Nova paid the price for not having the stuff to beat hitters in the zone.
                                                              
56. Jhoulys Chacin, San Diego Padres
32 G, 180.1 IP, 7.6 K/9, 3.6 BB/9, 0.9 HR/9, 91 OPS+, 3.89 ERA, 106 ERA+, 2.4 WAR
Jhoulys Chacin had the kind of season that's hard to fawn over but is worth appreciating. By basing his attack off a trusty sinker and low-key nasty slider, he pushed his exit velocity to 85.4 mph and brought his soft-hit and hard-hit rates into close contact. That's a season for the "Better Than You Think" file.
                                        
55. R.A. Dickey, Atlanta Braves
31 G, 190 IP, 6.4 K/9, 3.2 BB/9, 1.2 HR/9, 110 OPS+, 4.26 ERA, 100 ERA+, 2.1 WAR
R.A. Dickey enjoyed a return to form this year and not just because of his move back to the National League. His knuckleball regained some long-lost velocity and was harder to square up. He limited hitters to an average 85.3 mph exit velocity and racked up soft contact at a higher rate than any NL hurler.
                                                           
54. Marco Estrada, Toronto Blue Jays
33 G, 186 IP, 8.5 K/9, 3.4 BB/9, 1.5 HR/9, 103 OPS+, 4.98 ERA, 92 ERA+, 2.2 WAR
This season wasn't smooth sailing for Marco Estrada, but his ERA exaggerates how bad it was. He still had his rising fastball, slow changeup and ability to work the edges. His K/9, BB/9 and HR/9 rates didn't budge, and his contact quality got better. 
                                   
53. Jon Gray, Colorado Rockies
20 G, 110.1 IP, 9.1 K/9, 2.4 BB/9, 0.8 HR/9, 80 OPS+, 3.67 ERA, 136 ERA+, 3.2 WAR
Jon Gray may have missed a chunk of the season with a broken foot, but he was overpowering when healthy. He's armed with a power fastball, slider and curveball, and working down with all three pitches allowed for a lot more ground balls to go with his strikeouts.
                                                                
52. Mike Clevinger, Cleveland Indians
27 G, 121.2 IP, 10.1 K/9, 4.4 BB/9, 1.0 HR/9, 74 OPS+, 3.11 ERA, 147 ERA+, 3.1 WAR
Finding the strike zone is something Mike Clevinger needs to work on, but 2017 proved he can blow away hitters with the best of 'em. The key was burying his slider and changeup down where hitters couldn't hurt them. He ultimately avoided contact with the best of 'em.
                                     
51. Brad Peacock, Houston Astros
34 G, 132.0 IP, 11.0 K/9, 3.9 BB/9, 0.7 HR/9, 73 OPS+, 3.00 ERA, 132 ERA+, 3.0 WAR
Brad Peacock didn't grab a starting role until late May, but put up a 3.25 ERA in 21 appearances after he got it. A slider that's gained glove-side run as his arm slot has gotten lower became the top pitch in his arsenal and was the main reason for his huge K/9.

50. Michael Wacha, St. Louis Cardinals
30 G, 165.2 IP, 8.6 K/9, 3.0 BB/9, 0.9 HR/9, 98 OPS+, 4.13 ERA, 103 ERA+, 1.5 WAR
Michael Wacha's results are just OK, but it's hard to downplay his strikeout spike and his contact-quality improvement. He continued to pound away at the strike zone but this year did so with more high-octane stuff. Behold, the benefits of good health and relatively light workload demands.
                                                      
49. Andrew Cashner, Texas Rangers
28 G, 166.2 IP, 4.6 K/9, 3.5 BB/9, 0.8 HR/9, 80 OPS+, 3.40 ERA, 138 ERA+, 4.6 WAR
Andrew Cashner's K/9 and BB/9 rates mean he left a lot to chance, but he did well to minimize risk. By scrapping his slider, he based his attack off a wider array of movements and solved his hard-contact problem with a steady stream of out-of-zone contact.
48. Kyle Freeland, Colorado Rockies
33 G, 156 IP, 6.2 K/9, 3.6 BB/9, 1.0 HR/9, 98 OPS+, 4.10 ERA, 122 ERA+, 3.3 WAR
It may not look like much, but a 4.10 ERA in an offense-happy era and as a member of the Colorado Rockies is no small feat. Kyle Freeland achieved that by mixing and matching three different fastballs and jamming hitters to the tune of an average 84.5 mph exit velocity and an elite soft-contact rate.
                               
47. CC Sabathia, New York Yankees
27 G, 148.2 IP, 7.3 K/9, 3.0 BB/9, 1.3 HR/9, 87 OPS+, 3.69 ERA, 124 ERA+, 2.9 WAR
When healthy, CC Sabathia stuck with what worked in 2016. His once-mighty four-seam fastball stayed a thing of history, and he used movement and precise locations to rack up ground balls and soft contact. To wit, his 83.9 mph exit velocity was about as good as it got.
46. Jose Berrios, Minnesota Twins
26 G, 145.2 IP, 8.6 K/9, 3.0 BB/9, 0.9 HR/9, 86 OPS+, 3.89 ERA, 114 ERA+, 1.8 WAR
Between a 93.5 mph fastball and a curveball made for GIFs, Jose Berrios entered 2017 with the weapons to succeed. With a new position on the rubber, he gained the control. Although he didn't get ace results, his K/9, BB/9 and HR/9 improvements and huge exit velocity drop suggest he deserved them.
                         
45. Rich Hill, Los Angeles Dodgers
25 G, 135.2 IP, 11.0 K/9, 3.2 BB/9, 1.2 HR/9, 73 OPS+, 3.32 ERA, 126 ERA+, 2.2 WAR
Nobody did spin or late movement better than Rich Hill this year. Beyond his excellent K/9, his 84.3 mph exit velocity is proof of how effective his deception was. The only gripes are that he couldn't stay off the disabled list and only went deep into games if something special (e.g. a perfect game) was happening.
                       
44. J.A. Happ, Toronto Blue Jays
25 G, 145.1 IP, 8.8 K/9, 2.8 BB/9, 1.1 HR/9, 82 OPS+, 3.53 ERA, 130 ERA+, 3.5 WAR
An elbow problem greeted J.A. Happ in April, but he returned to provide his usual brand of solid innings. He works up, down and side to side with a diverse arsenal of pitches that he disguises well, making him tough to pick up and even tougher to square up.
                        
43. Taijuan Walker, Arizona Diamondbacks
28 G, 157.1 IP, 8.4 K/9, 3.5 BB/9, 1.0 HR/9, 87 OPS+, 3.49 ERA, 137 ERA+, 2.8 WAR
Taijuan Walker has always had a big arm, but this is the year he finally settled on the right pitch selection. Adding a slider was key, as it allowed for a different look and gave him a third go-to pitch for ground balls. Throw in his solid K/9 and low pull rate, and he was genuinely tough to do damage against.
                             
42. Kyle Hendricks, Chicago Cubs
24 G, 139.2 IP, 7.9 K/9, 2.6 BB/9, 1.1 HR/9, 77 OPS+, 3.03 ERA, 144 ERA+, 3.5 WAR
Despite diminished velocity and a lengthy stint on the DL, Kyle Hendricks' 2017 ended up being a worthy follow-up to his Cy Young-caliber 2016. When you can disguise your pitches and work the edges with different movements and speeds, you can post an 83.9 mph exit velocity and get by just fine.
                                  
41. Lance Lynn, St. Louis Cardinals
33 G, 186.1 IP, 7.4 K/9, 3.8 BB/9, 1.3 HR/9, 90 OPS+, 3.43 ERA, 124 ERA+, 3.1 WAR
Lance Lynn returned from Tommy John surgery to do Lance Lynn things: Attack hitters with a mix of four-seamers, sinkers and cutters and generally go fishing for soft contact. Another trick was to suppress pulled batted balls, thereby cutting off the easy avenue to serious damage.

Age: 29
Key Stats: 31 G, 186 IP, 6.3 K/9, 1.8 BB/9, 1.0 HR/9, 99 OPS+, 3.92 ERA, 109 ERA+
WAR: 1.8
2017 Player Report
Although things got a little rough in August, 2017 was otherwise a return to form for Mike Leake.
By shifting to the first base side of the rubber, he was able to introduce a different look to a repertoire of pitches that already featured a diverse array of movements and speeds. And after favoring the glove-side corner of the zone in 2016, he also became less predictable with his locations.
These changes ultimately helped him produce typical results. Although he didn't blow anyone away, his walk rate ensured he didn't beat himself, and his tendency for ground balls kept easy outs coming while also allowing him to avoid the home run barrage.
Contrary to what his 3.1 WAR at FanGraphs suggests, Leake wasn't a top-25 qualified pitcher. But he was indeed better than what his rWAR suggests.

Age: 34
Key Stats: 32 G, 179.2 IP, 6.7 K/9, 2.9 BB/9, 1.4 HR/9, 101 OPS+, 4.16 ERA, 108 ERA+
WAR: 3.8
2017 Player Report
Jason Vargas entered July as a leading Cy Young candidate. But then came a slump that downgraded his season from "great" to merely "good."
Still, it's worth a tip of the ol' cap that 2017 was his first fully healthy season since 2014. And it was mostly an effective display for a different style of pitching. Instead of relying too heavily on his mid-80s fastball, Vargas based his attack off his changeup and curveball and lived on the edges of the zone.
Hitters didn't have an easy time making contact against him. They often got under the ball when they did, but his high fly-ball rate didn't doom him because many of said fly balls died with a whimper in the outfield.
It was inevitable that Vargas' hot start wouldn't last, but it's no small feat that his ERA didn't get and stay over 4.00 until September.

Age: 28
Key Stats: 24 G, 146.1 IP, 8.0 K/9, 2.5 BB/9, 0.8 HR/9, 86 OPS+, 3.81 ERA, 117 ERA+
WAR: 3.2
2017 Player Report
This was yet another year in which Danny Duffy couldn't quite become a top-of-the-rotation workhorse. He also had to make do without his trademark velocity.
Obviously, that wasn't too tall a task. Although it meant sacrificing strikeouts, he forged ahead and was one of the most aggressive zone-attackers in MLB. The elite rise he maintained on his fastball allowed it to continue being a tough customer, but he also used it less in lieu of extra sliders and changeups.
Although he carried on as a fly-ball pitcher, Duffy did the nigh unfathomable of avoiding a home run spike because fly balls off him tended to be weak. They averaged 88.9 mph exit velocity and didn't go very far.
Of course, it didn't hurt to pitch at Kauffman Stadium. Or in front of one of MLB's best outfield defenses. But keep that under your hat.

Age: 33
Key Stats: 25 G, 146.2 IP, 10.0 K/9, 3.1 BB/9, 0.9 HR/9, 93 OPS+, 3.62 ERA, 109 ERA+
WAR: 1.8
2017 Player Report
Had Charlie Morton not been injured for a good chunk of 2017, his season would offer little to gripe about.
The enhanced velocity that he merely teased in 2016 got a full reveal. He sat at 95.0 mph and reached as high as 98.5 mph. Factor in a curveball that featured excellent glove-side action, and he was showing some truly overpowering stuff.
The big benefit was the ability to overwhelm hitters even within the strike zone. Yet he didn't quit his previous life as a ground-ball pitcher, posting a 51.9 GB%. He also allowed just 85.0 mph exit velocity and finished with strong soft and hard contact rates. 
In all, this is another case of a guy's rWAR not doing him enough justice.

Age: 24
Key Stats: 28 G, 169.2 IP, 8.1 K/9, 2.7 BB/9, 1.4 HR/9, 93 OPS+, 4.24 ERA, 102 ERA+
WAR: 2.7
2017 Player Report
Three things made a difference for Dylan Bundy in 2017: health, a long leash and a slider.
It's a pitch that can make hitters look silly, so it's no surprise that it was one of the hardest sliders in the league to make contact against. Him being more aggressive with it in August and September led to a hot streak that salvaged his second half.
Not to be overlooked is how Bundy didn't allow his ultra-low GB% to be his doom. Neither righty batters nor lefty batters had an easy time pulling the ball in the air against him. What also helped was that he was above average at inducing infield flies.
Bundy needs to become more of a workhorse and find ways to altogether avoid hard contact. But on balance, his 2017 season was a good first step toward acehood.

Age: 31
Key Stats: 30 G, 168.1 IP, 8.7 K/9, 2.9 BB/9, 1.2 HR/9, 89 OPS+, 3.53 ERA, 123 ERA+
WAR: 1.9
2017 Player Report
It was hard not to notice Jake Arrieta's missing velocity at the beginning of the year, and it loomed large as he put up a 5.44 ERA through eight starts.
After that came a 2.84 ERA over 22 starts. Part of this was him putting more trust in his sinker, as well as in a changeup that had always been in his back pocket. The effect was a wider variety of movements, which Arrieta forced batters to confront by attacking the zone.
Between his good-not-great three true outcome rates (8.3 K/9, 3.1 BB/9 and 1.1 HR/9) and his 88.0 mph exit velocity, there is a question about how good Arrieta actually was in this span. He surely got a boost from the Chicago Cubs' excellent defense.
Still, results are results. And when it comes down to it, not many starters were more dominant than Arrieta after he took off.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 27 G, 162.1 IP, 8.5 K/9, 3.2 BB/9, 1.1 HR/9, 78 OPS+, 3.55 ERA, 123 ERA+
WAR: 2.6
2017 Player Report
Sonny Gray missed the first month of 2017 and then got off to a rough start. But after that, it was smooth sailing with a 3.23 ERA over his last 21 starts.
It would be hard to tell from looking at his BB/9, but Gray's big maneuver in 2017 was to stop being so aggressive in the strike zone. Although hitters were generally obliged to chase, they typically couldn't hit what they swung at when they did. His K/9 spiked accordingly.
Gray also stayed in touch with his roots. When he's right, he's working down with a sinker-led arsenal that gets ground balls. So it went in 2017. He finished with an elite 52.8 GB% and corrected the hard contact problem that had emerged in 2016.
This was nothing like the No. 1 form that Gray had in 2015, to be sure. But in lieu of No. 1 form, the form of a solid No. 2/3 starter will do.

Age: 26
Key Stats: 32 G, 176.1 IP, 10.0 K/9, 3.1 BB/9, 1.3 HR/9, 100 OPS+, 4.19 ERA, 109 ERA+
WAR: 3.1
2017 Player Report
Although he'll never be confused for Cliff Lee, Trevor Bauer finally settled on a release point he liked in 2016 and pushed his walk rate lower than ever.
That continued in 2017 and permitted Bauer to pursue his next trick: an arsenal simplified to mostly fastballs and curveballs. A good idea based on his curveball's nastiness, if nothing else. It also forced hitters to guard against two drastically different challenges: fast high and slow low.
Hitters found ways to continue making hard contact against Bauer, but his K/9 reflects how tough even making contact was for the opposition. Besides, he balanced his hard contact problem with solutions in the form of pop-ups and ground balls.
Bauer's ERA peaked at an ugly 7.67 after his fifth start on May 1. After that, he had a 3.56 ERA in 27 appearances that covered 149.1 innings.

Age: 30
Key Stats: 29 G, 179.1 IP, 6.4 K/9, 2.2 BB/9, 1.1 HR/9, 93 OPS+, 3.66 ERA, 114 ERA+
WAR: 2.4
2017 Player Report
Alex Cobb didn't rack up many strikeouts in 2017, nor did he avoid getting hit hard. As such, some of the credit for his season must be deflected onto the Tampa Bay Rays' strong defense.
However, the man himself wouldn't be here if he didn't also deserve credit.
Cobb was a standout for stats like "Release:Tunnel" and "Post-tunnel Break." In English: He was really good at disguising his pitches and produced more late movement than the average pitcher. Beyond a 2.2 BB/9, one of the primary benefits was frequent contact outside the zone, on which he held hitters to a .189 average.
There's no mistaking Cobb for an ace, but he was in 2017 what he'd been back before injuries in 2013 and 2014: a hidden gem.

Age: 28
Key Stats: 33 G, 189.2 IP, 8.4 K/9, 2.9 BB/9, 1.2 HR/9, 102 OPS+, 4.03 ERA, 119 ERA+
WAR: 2.9
2017 Player Report
It's never been any secret that Patrick Corbin's slider is his best pitch. Thus, the revelation of his 2017 season: Why not throw it more often?
He did just that, making his slider the central pitch in his repertoire. He also established a new location pattern that saw him throw slider after slider on the glove-side corner of the zone. Hitters had no answer, batting .184 with a .318 slugging percentage against it.
Corbin's other pitches were quite hittable, mind you, but not enough to stop the progress that his slider usage allowed for. His three true outcome rates all improved, and his hard-hit rate plummeted.
An ace? Not quite. But a very good pitcher over a sizable chunk of innings.

Age: 24
Key Stats: 33 G, 191.1 IP, 5.8 K/9, 2.6 BB/9, 0.9 HR/9, 101 OPS+, 3.90 ERA, 112 ERA+
WAR: 2.9
2017 Player Report
As a slight 6'0", 155-pounder who pitches to contact, Zach Davies is an exception to the rule that standout starters must be tall drinks of water with swing-and-miss stuff.
Movement and unpredictability are his keys for living with his 89.7 mph heat. His sinker, cutter, changeup and curveball allow for different looks and speeds. His deployment of his secondaries would vary from game to game, particularly toward the end of the year.
While Davies did venture into the strike zone more often, he still mostly avoided it in an attempt to get hitters to swing at his pitches. The combination of these elements allowed him to manage batted balls to the tune of a 50.2 GB% and little hard contact.
No appreciation of Davies is complete without an appreciation for the Milwaukee Brewers' infield defense. It allowed the sixth-lowest average on ground balls, which was of use to him.

Age: 28
Key Stats: 32 G, 188.2 IP, 9.9 K/9, 2.9 BB/9, 1.1 HR/9, 87 OPS+, 4.15 ERA, 104 ERA+
WAR: 2.4
2017 Player Report
The normally reliable Jose Quintana was reeling with a 5.60 ERA after 11 starts, with a big problem being the loss of his trademark homer suppression. He allowed 10 long balls in only 64.1 innings.
Then came a 3.40 ERA in his final 21 starts, which was a dandy of a course correction both on the surface and under the hood.
Already armed with a knack for disguising his pitches, Quintana ramped up his deceptive act by shifting his position on the rubber and downplaying his four-seamer. Normally one to go right at hitters, he stuck mostly to the arm-side edge of the zone. That helped his K/9, BB/9 and HR/9 rates recover and invited more soft contact.
All told, Quintana authored one third of a bad season and two-thirds of a typical Quintana season.

Age: 32
Key Stats: 32 G, 207.2 IP, 8.9 K/9, 1.4 BB/9, 1.3 HR/9, 97 OPS+, 4.42 ERA, 95 ERA+
WAR: 2.4
2017 Player Report
Jeff Samardzija walked 10 batters in April. He walked just 22 the rest of the year and finished with a lower BB/9 than any qualified pitcher.
Such things can happen when a pitcher says "screw it" and takes up residence in the strike zone. What makes Samardzija's move to do so more impressive is the reality that he continued to feature a diverse arsenal. Name a pitch, and odds are he was throwing it.
His K/9 spike happened because extra strikes invariably lead to strikeouts. He was less fortunate on balls in play, but there's no ignoring the role of the Giants' defense in that. It was just plain bad, and especially bad in the outfield. That was no help to Samardzija, who isn't a ground-ball pitcher.
So despite what his ERA+ suggests, Samardzija pitched 207.2 above-average innings.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 33 G, 203.0 IP, 8.7 K/9, 2.4 BB/9, 1.4 HR/9, 97 OPS+, 4.26 ERA, 101 ERA+
WAR: 2.8
2017 Player Report
Gerrit Cole's career HR/9 stood at a microscopic 0.6 before this season. But clearly, his homer suppression was no match for 2017.
That was largely his own doing. With a sizzling 96.0 mph fastball and three good secondaries, Cole's M.O. is to go right at hitters in the strike zone. Sure enough, that's where opponents teed off.
But that's not to say Cole was easy to hit. His rate of contact within the zone actually went down, and his rate of soft contact followed an upward trend to a place among the elites. It is with these skills that he authored 20 quality starts, only three fewer than co-leaders Chris Sale and Justin Verlander.
There's no mistaking Cole's 2017 for an ace-caliber season along the lines of his Cy Young-caliber 2015. However, there's also no downplaying 203.0 mostly above-average innings.

Age: 29
Key Stats: 23 G, 145.2 IP, 7.7 K/9, 2.9 BB/9, 0.9 HR/9, 73 OPS+, 2.90 ERA, 136 ERA+
WAR: 3.9
2017 Player Report
There's no point ignoring that Dallas Keuchel missed nearly two months with an injury and was up and down after he returned. 
But for the most part, he pitched like Dallas Keuchel. He stuck to the edges of the strike zone, collecting ground balls off his bowling-ball sinker and whiffs off a slider that still doesn't get as much credit as it deserves.
Making contact against him was tougher than his K/9 lets on, and what contact did happen was mostly harmless. He finished with an MLB-high 66.8 GB%, and batted balls off him averaged just 84.5 mph. That was up there among the elites, and it translated into him excelling with both soft and hard contact.
Over a larger sample, this would be ace-level stuff. As it is, it's great stuff for a 23-start sample.

Age: 28
Key Stats: 24 G, 136.0 IP, 10.3 K/9, 2.4 BB/9, 0.6 HR/9, 63 OPS+, 2.98 ERA, 143 ERA+
WAR: 3.9
2017 Player Report
James Paxton's 2017 breakout was really a carryover of a smaller, more overlooked breakout in 2016.
He dropped his arm slot that year, which had the effect of turning a hard fastball into an even harder fastball. So it went in 2017, as his 95.4 mph heat was the hardest featured by a lefty starter.
Hitters also had to contend with one of the sharpest, most devastating curveballs in the sport. And Paxton didn't mess around, throwing pitches in the zone at a higher rate than ever before. Free passes were hard to come by, and all the extra strikes didn't make contact any easier either.
But for all this dominance, there's the unfortunate "Yeah, but." Paxton achieved career highs in starts and innings, but he was once again unable to escape the clutches of the injury bug.

Age: 29
Key Stats: 25 G, 141.1 IP, 8.5 K/9, 2.6 BB/9, 0.9 HR/9, 73 OPS+, 2.74 ERA, 160 ERA+
WAR: 4.1
           
2017 Player Report
Against all odds, Chase Anderson went from having a massive home run problem to being one of the better long ball suppressors in MLB. Not only that, but his 84.4 mph exit velocity was elite.
Behold, the results of his becoming a whole new pitcher. He threw harder, threw more cutters and mixed up his position on the rubber. The latter mainly helped him solve lefty batters, but his improvements as a whole had even larger effects.
Anderson just plain baffled batters, avoiding their bats inside the zone and coaxing them into expanding the zone more often. He thus helped himself to more strikeouts and better contact management.
It's a shame he had to miss nearly two months with an oblique injury. Otherwise, he'd be under ace consideration.

Age: 26
Key Stats: 27 G, 152.1 IP, 8.9 K/9, 2.2 BB/9, 0.9 HR/9, 68 OPS+, 2.72 ERA, 154 ERA+
WAR: 3.3
                       
2017 Player Report
Alex Wood's 2017 comes with caveats. Namely: He was largely limited to five or six innings per outing and tailed off with a 3.89 ERA in the second half.
Still, it was quite a comeback. The most noticeable differences were in Wood's velocity, which was up, and in his pitch selection, which was lighter on sinkers and heavy on curveballs and changeups.
That much movement coming from Wood's funky delivery added up to quite a bit of deception, and his talent for working the edges of the zone didn't make things any easier for hitters. His chase rate skyrocketed, and he benefited with 84.9 mph exit velocity in addition to his solid K/9 and BB/9 rates.
If not for the workload asterisk, all this would constitute an ace-caliber performance.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 26 G, 155 IP, 9.6 K/9, 3.1 BB/9, 0.9 HR/9, 68 OPS+, 3.37 ERA, 142 ERA+
WAR: 4.4
           
2017 Player Report
They don't make 'em much more unheralded than Zack Godley. And he's very much worth heralding.
Following a rough 2016, he conquered 2017 with a new position on the rubber and a pitch mix that featured more of his high-velocity curveball alongside heaping helpings of sinkers and cutters.
Godley still preferred not to attack the zone and got away with it because he was elite at drawing swings outside the zone and even better at avoiding contact outside the zone. That fed his K/9, and whatever contact hitters did make was mostly on the ground to the tune of a 55.3 GB%.
So, don't be fooled by the fact that Godley didn't make it into the Arizona Diamondbacks' postseason rotation. By all rights, he should have.

Age: 28
Key Stats: 32 G, 173.2 IP, 9.0 K/9, 3.6 BB/9, 1.0 HR/9, 86 OPS+, 3.32 ERA, 137 ERA+
WAR: 4.0
                  
2017 Player Report
The reality that Drew Pomeranz logged only 173.2 innings in 32 starts is a window into not only how inefficient he was, but also how often he found himself in trouble.
His BB/9 is the residue of his recent penchant for not living in the strike zone. Making contact wasn't too difficult for hitters, and they made a decent amount of hard contact, as well. He threw 41.6 percent of his pitches with men on base, one of the higher rates among starters.
However, there are reasons that stranding runners tends to be a skill of his. His high-rise fastball and diving curveball were good for changing both speeds and eye levels in 2017. It's a deceptive act that netted him strikeouts and soft contact.
In all, he's a good example of how to get away with living dangerously.

Age: 24
Key Stats: 27 G, 168 IP, 9.9 K/9, 2.6 BB/9, 1.0 HR/9, 85 OPS+, 3.54 ERA, 119 ERA+
WAR: 4.5
2017 Player Report
Watch Aaron Nola pitch, and you'd swear that he keeps a string on every ball he throws.
Led by a curveball that's overtaken Adam Wainwright's hook as the most sideways-bending curve in MLB, everything in Nola's repertoire moves. As if that wasn't enough for hitters to contend with, he can also locate. He filled up the zone this year and would work up, down and side to side with his assorted movements.
This made contact tough to come by, and what contact hitters did make typically wasn't good. Batted balls off him averaged 85.5 mph, and he collected plenty of ground balls.
The only gripe is that Nola couldn't stay healthy enough for 30-plus starts. Otherwise, he was a virtual lock for six strong innings when he took the ball.

Age: 24
Key Stats: 25 G, 164.2 IP, 6.2 K/9, 2.2 BB/9, 0.7 HR/9, 70 OPS+, 3.83 ERA, 119 ERA+
WAR: 3.6
            
2017 Player Report
Michael Fulmer's elbow surgery ended his season early, but not before he could author a worthy follow-up to his Rookie of the Year-winning 2016.
After relying mainly on his four-seamer in '16, he made his blazing-fast sinker his primary fastball in 2017. He also challenged hitters in the zone more, notably up above the belt. These proved to be a good counterpunches against a league full of hitters trying to swing up at the ball.
Batted balls against him averaged a modest 85.7 mph, and his hard-hit rate declined. Thus did he end up with an AL-low HR/9 rate and the lowest rate of extra base hits per batted balls of any starter.
Worth noting is he didn't get a lot of help from his teammates, as the Detroit Tigers had the least efficient defense and struggled to secure strikes. Fulmer's excellence was all him.

Age: 28
Key Stats: 29 G, 175.1 IP, 10.2 K/9, 2.5 BB/9, 0.8 HR/9, 85 OPS+, 3.49 ERA, 126 ERA+
WAR: 3.3
              
2017 Player Report
A shoulder injury courtesy of the National League's outdated insistence that pitchers fend for themselves on offense ended Jimmy Nelson's season early. But at least it was fun while it lasted.
He has always had talents for ground balls and soft contact. His new trick showed in the strikeout and walk departments, as he went from a career 2.0 K/BB ratio to a 4.2 K/BB ratio in 2017.
Subtle mechanical changes equipped Nelson with more velocity that made it easier to avoid contact even within the strike zone. Given that he had already established in 2016 that he would spend a lot more time in the zone, that was all he needed to take off.
Whether he'll be the same following shoulder surgery is an uncomfortable question. But if he can be, the Brewers will welcome back an ace.

Age: 26
Key Stats: 28 G, 162 IP, 12.1 K/9, 3.9 BB/9, 1.3 HR/9, 66 OPS+, 2.89 ERA, 166 ERA+
WAR: 5.0
              
2017 Player Report
If Robbie Ray could only cut his walk rate, he'd join the ranks of MLB's most dominant aces.
That may be asking for too much, however. Ray worked a 3.7 BB/9 in 2016 despite throwing plenty of pitches in the zone, so it's no surprising that even more walks came with fewer in-zone pitches in 2017. Without a simple, low-effort delivery, consistently throwing strikes may never be his thing.
But who needs strikes when you've got strikeouts? Ray's delivery doesn't make it easy to track the ball, and then come high-velocity fastballs (94.1 mph) and two excellent breaking pitches: a hard slider that gets whiffs, and a hard curveball that also gets whiffs.
It wasn't impossible to hit Ray hard on contact. Actually hitting him, however, was more difficult than any other pitcher. That's all he needed to author a dominant campaign.

Age: 31
Key Stats: 31 G, 186.2 IP, 10.1 K/9, 2.8 BB/9, 1.3 HR/9, 80 OPS+, 3.86 ERA, 118 ERA+
WAR: 3.9
             
2017 Player Report
Yu Darvish enjoyed his first fully healthy season since 2013 and was thus back to striking out batters on a full-time basis.
Two key factors were his maintaining the higher arm slot and extra velocity he gained following 2015 Tommy John surgery. The former helped him find the strike zone more frequently, and the latter was part of an overwhelming attack.
His four-seamer, sinker, cutter and slider combination forced hitters to guard against four high-velocity pitches with different movements. His contact and soft-hit rates prove how much this arrangement favored Darvish.
The only shame is that he couldn't escape the home run revolution. But to be as dominant as he was over nearly 190 innings is a good consolation.

Age: 29
Key Stats: 34 G, 201 IP, 11.1 K/9, 2.7 BB/9, 1.2 HR/9, 93 OPS+, 4.07 ERA, 102 ERA+
WAR: 1.2
           
2017 Player Report
Ignore Chris Archer's low Baseball Reference WAR. FanGraphs WAR comes closer to the truth in rating him as a top-11 pitcher.
Their version of WAR favors pitchers who rack up strikeouts and limit walks, which Archer obviously did extremely well. It wasn't a complicated process. Hitters were either going to get a fastball or a slider. But he was quite good at disguising them, and the extreme velocity of both pitches left little time to react.
When hitters did react in time and get good swings off, they did quite a bit of damage. He allowed his highest hard-hit rate. But one reason his HR/9 didn't spike is he made it difficult for hitters to pull the ball. There was no taking the easy way to the fence against him.
The end result wasn't his best season, but it was one that was better than his surface stats let on.

Age: 26
Key Stats: 32 G, 205 IP, 9.5 K/9, 3.1 BB/9, 1.2 HR/9, 87 OPS+, 3.64 ERA, 117 ERA+
WAR: 2.9
         
2017 Player Report
Carlos Martinez didn't have his best slider this year. Its movement flattened out, and the league's power-hungry hitters were all too eager to use that as an excuse to take it for a ride.
Otherwise, it's hard to find nits to pick.
Martinez isn't a big guy at 6'0", 190 pounds, but he's only getting more durable. Nor is he losing his gas, as his 95.6 mph fastball was one of the best featured by any starter. Throw in his aforementioned slider and electric changeup, as well as his ever-improving ability to throw strikes, and you get a complete threat.
Between his 9.5 K/9 and 51.3 GB%, at-bats against Martinez ended in many more whimpers than bangs. Given that he was stricken with his largest ever difference between his wOBA and xwOBA, his results undersell his dominance.

Age: 26
Key Stats: 33 G, 201 IP, 7.3 K/9, 2.8 BB/9, 0.9 HR/9, 87 OPS+, 3.09 ERA, 149 ERA+
WAR: 5.8
             
2017 Player Report
Following a 4.37 ERA in 2016, Marcus Stroman changed in subtle ways that made a huge difference.
He didn't abandon any of his pitches, but did simplify his pitch mix to be about his sinker and slider and then everything else. It was a different slider, too, with more horizontal run that made it more electric. Just ask Carlos Correa.
Stroman also simplified his location patterns to be low-and-away against both righties and lefties. He didn't lose his status as an elite ground-ball artist, but did make it that much harder for hitters to pull the ball. He thus attracted easy outs and shunned easy power.
Since he didn't blow anyone away and relied a lot on his defense, "dominance" is a tough word to ascribe to Stroman's 2017. But his pitching was darn good, and there was plenty of it.

Age: 34
Key Stats: 33 G, 211.1 IP, 7.1 K/9, 2.6 BB/9, 1.3 HR/9, 80 OPS+, 3.28 ERA, 134 ERA+
WAR: 4.6
          
2017 Player Report
Ervin Santana got by with a well-below-average K/9 in 2017 by being one of MLB's better contact managers.
His exit velocity went from 88.0 mph in 2016 down to 85.3 mph, his soft-hit rate increased over the league average, and he went back to inducing pop-ups. His .286 average allowed on batted balls was right there with the best of the best.
Some of this was due to his coaxing hitters into going fishing by living outside the zone, but it also had to do with how he employed his arsenal of pitches. His hard stuff was up on the arm side, while his slow stuff was down on the glove side. With four different pitches at work, this was no easy guessing game.
It's temping to assume Santana's success is too good to be true. But according to the minuscule difference between his wOBA and xwOBA, it wasn't.

Age: 29
Key Stats: 31 G, 201.1 IP, 10.7 K/9, 2.6 BB/9, 1.3 HR/9, 84 OPS+, 3.53 ERA, 119 ERA+
WAR: 4.4
          
2017 Player Report
Jacob deGrom was healthy and effective despite being on a cursed New York Mets team that had one of the worst defenses in MLB.
Bypassing that defense via strikeouts was the right play, and he earned those with one of the lowest contact rates in the league. And he at least made things easy for his fielders. Balls off him averaged just 85.5 mph, including an MLB-best 76.3 mph on the many swings he drew outside the zone.
Everything worked off a four-seam fastball that had rejuvenated velocity. He also threw his high-velocity slider more often but without abandoning his curveball, changeup and sinker. The fact that four of these five pitches had double-digit whiff rates says it all about how nasty his arsenal was.
The end result was a great season that, by all rights, should have been even greater. 

Age: 34
Key Stats: 33 G, 206 IP, 9.6 K/9, 3.1 BB/9, 1.2 HR/9, 75 OPS+, 3.36 ERA, 133 ERA+
WAR: 6.3
2017 Player Report
Justin Verlander's ERA stood at 4.96 after a seven-run dud on July 2. Then came a whole new pitcher who looked like the old Justin Verlander.
He maintained a high-spin arsenal fronted by a high-velocity fastball, but there was a change in how he paired his fastball with his slider. He started throwing the latter more often, and at lower speeds and to lower locations. It was a crafty ploy to increase his deception, and there's no arguing with the results.
His contact rate plummeted, as did his rate of hard contact. It led to a 1.92 ERA over his final 16 starts, a span in which he struck out 102 more batters than he walked in 108 innings.
Of course, this doesn't mean Verlander's bad first half didn't happen. But given that he didn't get much help from Tigers fielders or catchers, he doesn't deserve all the blame.

Age: 32
Key Stats: 32 G, 201 IP, 8.4 K/9, 3.5 BB/9, 0.9 HR/9, 70 OPS+, 2.96 ERA, 150 ERA+
WAR: 6.5
           
2017 Player Report
Gio Gonzalez's NL-high 79 walks are a flaw that sticks out like a sore thumb. He also finished with a curiously high strand rate that makes it easy to wonder if he spent 2017 in Lady Luck's graces.
But if nothing else, there's no denying his curveball's ongoing excellence. It continued to look the part of an unhittable pitch and limited hitters to just a .161 average and five extra-base hits. 
There were also more subtle changes working in Gonzalez's favor in 2017. He got his arm slot back down to 2012 levels and threw more pitches on the edges of the strike zone. One benefit was more hitters reached for contact, which helped drive his exit velocity south to 84.9 mph.
Granted, all this doesn't quite add up to a complete renovation that would turn Gonzalez into an ace. But it goes to show his excellent 2017 isn't without explanation.

Age: 30
Key Stats: 32 G, 200 IP, 10.2 K/9, 2.1 BB/9, 0.9 HR/9, 74 OPS+, 3.29 ERA, 139 ERA+
WAR: 5.4
           
2017 Player Report
When healthy, Carlos Carrasco was one of the best pitchers in the American League between 2014 and 2016. And in 2017, he was healthy all season.
The more detailed explanation for his success starts with what comes out of his hand. He worked off a 94.3 mph fastball and complemented it with three above-average secondaries: a biting slider, a diving changeup and a bendy curveball. Batters hit under .200 against all three.
One notable difference is how much more aggressive Carrasco was in the strike zone. The Cleveland Indians' excellent receivers enabled the move by leading the majors in percentage of pitches called strikes. His stuff also ensured that his rate of in-zone contact didn't budge. Even his exit velocity got better.
Basically, this was a case of an overpowering pitcher who decided not to mess around.

Age: 33
Key Stats: 32 G, 202.1 IP, 9.6 K/9, 2.0 BB/9, 1.1 HR/9, 68 OPS+, 3.20 ERA, 149 ERA+
WAR: 6.1
                   
2017 Player Report
How did Zack Greinke put a rough 2016 behind him? Partially because of his catchers.
Arizona Diamondbacks backstops went from being among the worst at securing strike calls outside the zone in 2016 to being much better at it in 2017. This was of use to Greinke, who doesn't like to pitch inside the zone. He benefited accordingly from called strikes on an increased percentage of his pitches.
Of course, he's also responsible for his own success. Like clockwork, he continued to feed lefty and righty batters a steady diet of low-and-away offerings. Having to guard against that made bad swings inevitable, resulting in his turning more pitches outside the zone into outs than any other pitcher.
In so many words: Greinke succeeded better than anyone at beating batters on his pitches. 

Age: 29
Key Stats: 27 G, 175 IP, 10.4 K/9, 1.5 BB/9, 1.2 HR/9, 62 OPS+, 2.31 ERA, 180 ERA+
WAR: 4.6
               
2017 Player Report
The back injury that landed Clayton Kershaw on the DL for a few weeks is the big black mark on his 2017 season. His career-high HR/9 is a lesser, yet still significant, black mark.
Otherwise, there's not much to complain about.
He continued to assault the strike zone with his hard (and rising) fastball and finish hitters off with his disappearing slider and optical-illusion curveball. The latter two pitches made him a late-movement wizard who avoided contact and suppressed good contact. Balls off him averaged just 84.6 mph.
Kershaw's succumbing to the injury and home run bugs lends credence to the question of whether he's still the best pitcher in baseball. There's still an excellent argument in favor of "Yes," however.

Age: 29
Key Stats: 28 G, 175.1 IP, 10.5 K/9, 2.4 BB/9, 0.7 HR/9, 54 OPS+, 2.52 ERA, 176 ERA+
WAR: 6.4
          
2017 Player Report
This is the Stephen Strasburg that was promised.
His stuff and ability to control it have been there from day one and remained there throughout 2017. He was second in strike zone rate, tied for the fourth-hardest fastball and continued to make hitters look silly with both his curveball and changeup en route to an elite contact rate.
The problem for Strasburg in the past had been the inability to avoid hard contact when hitters did put the bat on the ball. The trends of his soft-hit and hard-hit rates reflect how he'd already been mending that problem. His new trick in 2017 was making it extraordinarily difficult for batters to pull the ball.
All told, the only bad part of Strasburg's season is the right elbow impingement that put him on the DL in July. Otherwise, his 2017 would have a spotless record.

Age: 23
Key Stats: 31 G, 193.1 IP, 10.7 K/9, 2.4 BB/9, 1.0 HR/9, 58 OPS+, 2.98 ERA, 152 ERA+
WAR: 5.4
        
2017 Player Report
No starter had a speedier offering than Luis Severino's 97.6 mph fastball. Moreover, he was somehow throwing harder at the end of the year than he was at the start.
A fastball like that comes with a wide margin for error, so it's no wonder that—courtesy of a more consistent release point—he was more aggressive in the strike zone than any AL starter. Beyond having to protect against his extreme velocity, hitters also had to watch out for his electric slider and changeup.
It all added up to an overpowering experience. Severino finished the year with an elite contact rate, as well as above-average batted ball rates pretty much across the board: ground balls, pop-ups and hard-hit.
In any other year, his breakout season would be good enough for a Cy Young. Good thing for him it's just the beginning.

Age: 28
Key Stats: 32 G, 214.1 IP, 12.9 K/9, 1.8 BB/9, 1.0 HR/9, 56 OPS+, 2.90 ERA, 157 ERA+
WAR: 6.0
             
2017 Player Report
After experimenting with a pitch-to-contact approach in 2016, Chris Sale got back to business in 2017.
He returned to attacking hitters with a downright filthy array of pitches: heat with mid-90s velocity and electric action both on said heat and on his slider and changeup. Since he could throw all three pitches for strikes, it's no surprise he missed bats within the strike zone better than anyone.
One big difference was his love for the high fastball. And it worked, as hitters could neither lay off it nor hit it. That was a big factor in his limiting hitters to an MLB-low .083 average on pitches outside the zone.
Alas, Sale did run out of gas with a 4.09 ERA in his last 11 starts. But despite that, it's hard to frown on a dominant season that produced 308 strikeouts.

Age: 33
Key Stats: 31 G, 200.2 IP, 12.0 K/9, 2.5 BB/9, 1.0 HR/9, 49 OPS+, 2.51 ERA, 177 ERA+
WAR: 7.2
               
2017 Player Report
Between an achy neck and hamstring injury in his final start, Max Scherzer endured a rough finish to 2017. Yet there's a good chance he'll win his third Cy Young award anyway.
He remained an aggressive strike thrower with a repertoire fronted by an explosive fastball and a slider and changeup that both disappear on hitters. These enabled the third-lowest contact rate among qualified starters.
While his low ground-ball rate was a recipe for trouble with so many balls flying over fences, Scherzer survived because hitters couldn't square him up. An average batted ball off him was just 85.7 mph, and he once again had little trouble inducing pop-ups.
See that 49 OPS+ allowed? That was the lowest of any National League starter. That plus 200 innings is a good mix.

Age: 31
Key Stats: 29 G, 203.2 IP, 11.7 K/9, 1.6 BB/9, 0.9 HR/9, 44 OPS+, 2.25 ERA, 202 ERA+
WAR: 8.0
             
2017 Player Report
There was a time when Corey Kluber's 2017 season was looking like a lost cause. He had a 5.06 ERA through six starts and then missed a month with a bad back.
Then came 23 starts in which he put up a 1.62 ERA and struck out 201 more batters than he walked in 166.1 innings.
Kluber featured his slider more often as the year went along, which was a big boost. With elite glove-side run, it's a dandy of a pitch that worked well in tandem with his filthy sinker-cutter combination. Hitters were doomed if they chased outside the zone, which paved the way for his AL-low contact rate.
Hitters weren't liable to do much even if they did make contact. With 85.0 mph exit velocity and an MLB-best 24.4 soft-hit rate, loud contact is something Kluber didn't suffer gladly.
In the end, he permitted the lowest OPS+ and led in ERA+ and WAR. Only the best pitcher in baseball can do that.



The Houston Astros were nine outs away from pushing the New York Yankees to the brink of elimination Tuesday night, but a furious rally spearheaded by Aaron Judge and Gary Sanchez allowed the Bronx Bombers to tie the ALCS at two games apiece. 
RALLY TIME IN NEW YORK 

#ALCS https://t.co/BYOhTgnXA4
Now surging with their confidence at an all-time high, the Yankees have a chance to capture an improbable 3-2 series lead and send the series back to Minute Maid Park with the Astros' World Series hopes hanging by a thread. 
But in order to do so, the Yankees will need to conquer Astros starter Dallas Keuchel—who silenced New York's bats in a 2-1 Game 1 win. 
With Game 5 fast approaching, here's a rundown of when and where you can catch all the action from Yankee Stadium. 
Date: Wednesday, Oct. 18
TV: FS1
Time: 5:08 p.m. ET
Tickets: StubHub
Odds (via OddsShark): HOU -1.5
          
Preview

The Yankees boasted the AL's top home record (51-30) during the regular season, and they've continued to dominate in the Bronx to this point in the postseason. 
Specifically, New York is 5-0 following Tuesday's come-from-behind effort. As ESPN noted, that mark could have significant implications if the past is any indication: 
The Yankees are now 5-0 at home this postseason. 👀 https://t.co/9LRchDHB5d
But in order to contend for their first World Series title since 2009, the Yankees will have to conquer Keuchel on Wednesday. 
That's not going to be easy based on what Keuchel flashed in Game 1.  
In the series-opening tilt, the 2015 AL Cy Young Award winner leaned heavily on his fastball and filthy slider to consistently stifle New York hitters en route to 10 strikeouts, zero earned runs and four hits over seven innings.  
"Through the course of the game, pitch to pitch, at-bat to at-bat, it seemed like there was no need to change up what was working," Keuchel said Tuesday, per the Houston Chronicle's Jake Kaplan. "And I'm a big stickler if I can go with plan A and they don't make adjustments or I don't need to make adjustments, then I'm not going to show plan B.
If Keuchel does need to shake things up in Game 5, his changeup will likely come into play against a Yankee lineup that has scorched the Astros for 14 runs the past two nights. 
Houston, meanwhile, will be looking for an offensive awakening. 
After mustering two runs apiece in the series' first two games, the Astros have managed five runs over their past two losses against a Yankees offense that has found new life at home. 
Next up will be a second showdown with Masahiro Tanaka, who has been quite sharp to this point in the postseason. 
Through two starts, Tanaka has registered 10 strikeouts and scattered seven hits over 13.0 innings. In his last outing, which came in Game 1 of the ALCS, the pinstriped ace went six strong and allowed two earned runs while inducing 12 ground balls and registering three punchouts. 
If Tanaka can produce a similar performance in concert with New York's continued breakout at the plate, the Yankees should be in position to pull off a stunner when the series shifts back to Texas. 



The Los Angeles Dodgers are one win away from eliminating the defending champions and reaching their first World Series in 29 years.
Los Angeles seized a commanding 3-0 lead in the National League Championship Series against the Chicago Cubs with a 6-1 victory in Game 3 at Wrigley Field on Tuesday. Yu Darvish did exactly what the Dodgers envisioned when they acquired him from the Texas Rangers via trade in July, allowing one run on six hits and one walk while striking out seven in 6.1 innings.
Solo home runs by Andre Ethier and Chris Taylor as well as Taylor's RBI triple provided enough offense as Darvish and the Dodgers' shutdown bullpen flummoxed Cubs hitters.
Darvish appeared destined for a short outing after he allowed a solo home run to Kyle Schwarber and two singles in the first, but he settled in and pitched like the four-time All-Star he is.
Scott Miller of Bleacher Report highlighted why it was such a blow for Chicago to miss an early opportunity to do more damage:
Joe Maddon explained pregame why it's important to jump on Yu Darvish early. Gets better as he goes. Now it is being illustrated.
Darvish even played a part with his bat, though he didn't really need it during his sixth-inning plate appearance. Carl Edwards Jr.—who entered for Kyle Hendricks after an error by Kris Bryant and a single by Ethier—walked Darvish on four pitches with the bases loaded.
The Los Angeles starter matched his one career regular-season RBI with the plate appearance and extended his team's advantage to 4-1 in the process.
Hendricks allowed four runs, including three earned, on six hits and a walk while striking out five in five-plus innings and failed to replicate his performance from Game 6 of last year's NLCS, when he outdueled Clayton Kershaw to help punch the Cubs' ticket to the World Series.
His inability to protect the early 1-0 advantage meant Chicago lost its third straight game in the series after scoring first.
The one run wasn't going to hold up against the Dodgers with the wind blowing out, though, and Ethier's second-inning blast tied the contest before Taylor's third-inning shot put the visitors up for good.
Happy TuesDre. #ThisTeam https://t.co/bJ5VLA40Gl
Call him Crush Taylor. #ThisTeam https://t.co/sgwKWPdqju
Taylor was far from done, as his RBI triple in the fifth plated Joc Pederson, though Anthony Rizzo threw him out at home on Cody Bellinger's grounder to keep the Cubs within striking distance.
Seattle Mariners fans would have been wise to look away, as Greg Johns of MLB.com pointed out:
Chris Taylor had no HRs and one triple in 86 games over 3 seasons with Mariners. He's got a HR and triple in 5 innings tonight in NLCS.
Los Angeles added two insurance runs in the eighth. Logan Forsythe scored on a passed ball, and Kyle Farmer drove in Austin Barnes with a sacrifice fly.
While the Dodgers bullpen did its job yet again, the one downside for the victors was the fact two-time All-Star Kenley Jansen didn't receive the day off. Tony Watson retired both batters he faced in the seventh, Brandon Morrow pitched a scoreless eighth, and Ross Stripling gave up a single and double in the final frame before Jansen cleaned up the mess with a pop out and two strikeouts.
Chicago will turn to 2015 National League Cy Young Award winner Jake Arrieta to keep its season alive in Wednesday's Game 4 at Wrigley. Los Angeles will counter with Alex Wood—who will be making his first career postseason start—and simply needs to win one of the next four games to advance.



This wasn't supposed to be the New York Yankees' year. Just don't tell the Yankees.
After dropping the first two games of the American League Championship Series to the 101-win Houston Astros, the Yanks won Game 3 8-1 on Monday.
Then on Tuesday, New York engineered an inspiring comeback in the Bronx to even the series. Even more frighteningly for Houston, burgeoning bashers Aaron Judge and Gary Sanchez awoke to enable the 6-4 win.
These pinstripes-clad whippersnappers are two victories away from a trip to the World Series—and it genuinely feels like they could get there.
On Tuesday, the Astros built a 4-0 lead and held that advantage heading into the bottom of the seventh.
That's when Judge launched one of his signature, stratosphere-tickling home runs to center field. Let's take a gander, courtesy of YES Network, because it was an "all rise" turning point:
#AllRise: Aaron Judge hits a MONSTER home run to get the Yankees on the board. https://t.co/xrGy3EZnsH
Later in the inning, Sanchez made it 4-2 with a sacrifice fly. In the eighth, Judge doubled to tie the game, narrowly missing a second home run, and Sanchez capped the comeback with a two-run double of his own.
Let's look at both of those hits, backed by the stylings of Celine Dion if you want to turn up the volume, via Titanic Baseball:
WHAT A COMEBACK BY THE YANKEES!!!

GARY SANCHEZ'S GO AHEAD 2-RUN DOUBLE IS EVEN BETTER WITH TITANIC MUSIC!!! SERIES TIED AT 2-2!!!

⚾️🚢🎶 https://t.co/0a5UHYK8LC
An impeccable, two-strikeout ninth by closer Aroldis Chapman sealed the deal. The Yankees—a wild-card entrant allegedly in the midst of a rebuild—are now 5-0 at home in the 2017 playoffs.
They overcame a 0-2 deficit to defeat the favored Cleveland Indians in their American League Division Series. Now, they're trying to do the same to the Astros.
🔥 Top Videos from Around B/R 🔥
On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
 The dynamic duo of Judge and Sanchez could be the key.
Neither has consistently raked in the postseason. Entering Tuesday, Judge was 5-for-34 with 21 strikeouts. Sanchez was 6-for-38 with 15 strikeouts.
Both crushed it during the regular season, however. Judge locked down American League Rookie of the Year honors and put himself in the MVP conversation with a 1.049 OPS and 52 home runs. Sanchez followed his 2016 rookie breakout with an .876 OPS and 33 home runs.
Judge stands next to the Miami Marlins' Giancarlo Stanton as the game's co-most fearsome slugger. Sanchez might have passed the San Francisco Giants' Buster Posey for the title of best offensive catcher in baseball. They're good, to state the painfully obvious.

And yet, the October lights can blind even the best youngsters. No one would have been shocked to see Judge and Sanchez stumble in their first autumn foray. Chalk it up to a learning experience.
On the other hand, I harken back to a conversation I had with Sanchez in November 2016. The Baby Bombers were fresh off a winning season that stopped short of a postseason berth. I asked Sanchez if he felt pressure to carry the franchise after his eye-opening debut.
He deferred, giving credit to the other 24 guys on the roster. He sounded unfailingly confident, even through an interpreter.
Then he said something prescient: "I can tell you that we are going to work hard to bring a championship to New York."
Maybe at the time he meant the diaper-clad Yankees would bring a championship in 2018 or 2019. Now, the 2017 Commissioner's Trophy is within reach.
Two more wins against the potent Astros won't be easy. If they manage that, they'll need to deal with either the big-spending Los Angeles Dodgers or defending champion Chicago Cubs.
Leave those worries for another day. The Yanks are riding high and making history, per ESPN Stats & Info:
Yankees are fourth team to face 2-0 series deficit in consecutive postseason series. They are the only one to tie series at 2-2 both times.
"We've been in that situation a lot this year," Judge said after Game 4, per MLB.com's Bryan Hoch and Brian McTaggart. "We get down, but we keep fighting, keep putting out quality at-bats. We're never out of a game with the kind of offense we have.
"I have a lot of faith in this team."
This wasn't supposed to be their year. Just don't tell them that.
   
All statistics current as of Tuesday and courtesy of MLB.com.


BREAKING: Someone has stolen Ken Griffey Junior's bat outside Safeco Field: 

@Mariners #Seattle @KING5Seattle   @SeattlePD https://t.co/9I2QeJLmjA
This past April, the Seattle Mariners unveiled a statue dedicated to franchise legend and all-time great slugger Ken Griffey Jr. outside Safeco Field.
Somebody recently ran off with an important piece of the fixture. 
The @Mariners confirm suspect in custody, bat has been recovered....

Now...the question is how they re-attach The Kid's Bat.

#Seattle https://t.co/7oEsBzz0mm
Per Chris Daniels of King 5 News, a thief stole a large section of the bat held by Griffey's likeness. However, it seems the story has a happy ending, although Daniels did ask an important question while offering an update on the situation: 
The guilty party should apologize to The Kid in person. 
[Twitter]



It seems you just can't put the New York Yankees away.
Down 4-0 in the seventh inning Tuesday night, the Yankees fought back to earn a 6-4 Game 4 win over the Houston Astros. Both Aaron Judge and Gary Sanchez came through with a clutch hit during the four-run eighth inning.
Didi Gregorius immediately showed his excitement after the game:
#StartSpreadingTheNews yankees win all i want to say is ... THIS TEAM THOOO... WHAT A GAME!!!
New York had fallen behind 2-0 for the second series in a row, but the American League Championship Series is now tied 2-2 in the best-of-seven battle.
Judge, who broke out of a postseason slump with a home run in Game 3, put the Yankees on the board with this seventh-inning bomb:
.@TheJudge44 jump-starts the @Yankees with a monster shot to dead center. #ALCS https://t.co/EpiYmptnwF
Gregorius tripled and scored in the seventh before an eighth-inning rally gave the home team its first lead of the night. Judge tied the game with a double, and Sanchez hit a go-ahead two-run double:
TIE GAME!

Aaron Judge ties it up with a double off the wall.  https://t.co/TC8x6BWJKf
GARY SANCHEZ. The @Yankees take the lead!  https://t.co/jNfikrxy8U
Judge, Gregorius and Sanchez combined to go 5-for-10 with four runs and five RBI, with all of the production coming after the sixth inning.
The Astros bullpen simply couldn't contain the middle of the Yankees order as four pitchers combined to allow five runs in just two innings. Closer Ken Giles gave up two runs and took the loss.
Aroldis Chapman had no such trouble, closing out the game with a 1-2-3 inning.
Evan Roberts of WFAN summed up the attitude from the Yankees:
Every time Yankees back is up against it… damn do they fight back
Though you wouldn't know it from the final score, this was a pitchers' duel for the first half of the night.
Each starter was looking for redemption after a poor showing in the ALDS, and both Lance McCullers Jr. and Sonny Gray kept early runs off the board.
While many were surprised by the solid efforts, Joe Trezza of MLB.com explained the cause:
McCullers is throwing more curves than usual. Gray throwing more fastballs than usual. Both doing what they do best, more, early today.
McCullers had been awful in the second half of the year but showed his true talent with six innings of one-run ball and two hits allowed for Houston. Gray, a trade deadline acquisition, finished with two runs and just one hit allowed in five innings for the Yankees.
The pitchers kept it scoreless through five innings, but that changed when Gray was pulled with two runners on in the sixth. Frank Thomas of Fox Sports questioned the managerial decision:
The trend continues!! Quick hook for starters! I guess it's all about confidence nowadays for the managers!! 1 hit through 5🤔???
Three batters later, Yuli Gurriel drove home three runs on a bases-clearing double off David Robertson:
YULI GURRIEL DELIVERS!

3-run double for the @astros for the lead.  https://t.co/eYwL188RQ4
Two of the runs were charged to Gray, who now has 21.1 postseason innings in his career with zero runs of support, per Manny Randhawa of MLB.com.
It seemed the Yankees were just biding their time, as all the damage came in the last few innings. Judge's home run was the first of six unanswered runs to close the game. 
Wednesday's Game 5 will take place once again in Yankee Stadium, where New York is 5-0 this postseason.
The pitching matchup should be a rematch of Game 1 between Dallas Keuchel and Masahiro Tanaka.


The @Cubs are “One ‘L’ of a Team!” Free posters for CTA riders at Addison Red Line today approx. 6:30pm while supplies last. https://t.co/JudYmSC2y3
The Chicago Transit Authority may want to rethink its promotion ahead of Game 3 of the National League Championship Series between the Los Angeles Dodgers and Chicago Cubs at Wrigley Field. 
On Tuesday afternoon, the CTA tweeted out a picture of a free poster offered to riders hours ahead of the game's first pitch. Along with a cartoon Cubs player swinging for the fences, the poster refers to the club as "One 'L' Of A Team." 
Chicago's rapid-transit system is commonly referred to as the "L," but locals will be hoping the Cubs "Fly the W" after dropping the first two games of the series out west. 
[Twitter]


Today's basically a holiday... https://t.co/yQSXabnY1t
If the Boston Red Sox had defeated the Houston Astros in the Division Series, they would have faced the New York Yankees in the playoffs for the first time since the 2004 American League Championship Series. They instead spent Tuesday reminiscing over their historic comeback 13 years ago as the Yankees prepared for Game 4 against Houston.
Boston celebrated the 13-year anniversary of Game 4 of the 2004 ALCS. With the Red Sox down 3-0 in the series, losing 4-3 in the ninth inning and facing legendary Yankees closer Mariano Rivera, Boston's Dave Roberts energized the rally with a crucial stolen base. After winning the game in 12 innings, the Red Sox became the first and only team in MLB history to overcome a 3-0 postseason deficit.
They then swept the St. Louis Cardinals to secure their first championship since 1918.
The Yankees, however, could not let their foes enjoy a stroll down memory lane. They dialed the petty meter to "10" by reminding their AL foes that they have another ALCS Game 4 to worry about Tuesday.  
@RedSox Ah, work day for us. Game time is 5:08pm, if you're not busy.
The Red Sox were not amused.
@Yankees 🙄
This time the Evil Empire must rally from behind. After coming back from 2-0 to defeat the Cleveland Indians, they again lost Games 1 and 2 on the road against the Astros. They can tie the series at home following Game 3's 8-1 victory.
If the Yankees advance to the World Series, they may have the opportunity to gain revenge against Roberts, now managing the Los Angeles Dodgers. The Dodgers have jumped to a 2-0 National League Championship Series lead over the Chicago Cubs.
[Twitter]



The 2017 MLB postseason rolls on Tuesday night with Game 4 of the ALCS between the Houston Astros and New York Yankees as well as Game 3 of the NLCS featuring the Los Angeles Dodgers and reigning World Series champion Chicago Cubs.
New York won a pivotal Game 3 at Yankee Stadium on Monday night to avoid falling in a 3-0 hole. It will look to defend home field again Tuesday in order to level the series.
Meanwhile, the Dodgers took the first two matchups at home on the National League side. The Cubs hope the friendly confines of Wrigley Field can get them back in the series with a win in Game 3.
Let's check out all of the important information for Tuesday's action. That's followed by a preview of both contests on tap. Game lines are courtesy of OddsShark.
                    
Tuesday's Viewing Schedule
Astros at Yankees (Game 4; HOU Leads 2-1)
Time: 5 p.m. ET
TV: Fox Sports 1
Live Stream: Fox Sports Go
                 
Dodgers at Cubs (Game 3; LAD Leads 2-0)
Time: 9 p.m. ET
TV: TBS
Live Stream: Watch TBS
              
Game Previews
Astros (+115) at Yankees (-130)
Pitching Matchup: Lance McCullers Jr. (HOU) vs. Sonny Gray (NYY)
The Yankees stormed back from a 2-0 deficit in their ALDS clash with the Cleveland Indians in the previous round, so there wasn't much panic from the Bronx Bombers after falling behind the Astros by the same margin. That outlook likely would have changed with a loss Monday.
Instead, New York scored a resounding 8-1 victory thanks to home runs by Todd Frazier and Aaron Judge as well as a vintage performance from starting pitcher CC Sabathia, who pitched six scoreless innings with five strikeouts.
Judge is the key to the Yankees' chances. He led the American League with 52 homers during the regular season, but he's struggled for the most part during the playoffs. He's posted a .147/.293/.353 triple-slash line with two long balls and 21 strikeouts in 10 games.
Yanks manager Joe Girardi said the outfielder is still finding a way to make an impact—which included a highlight-reel catch Monday—even when he isn't getting hits consistently.
"We've played how many playoff games--nine? He [has] seven RBIs," he told reporters. "He gets his walks, got another one tonight. I know how dangerous he is. He can really change a game really quickly."
The silver lining for the Astros, aside from their continued lead in the series, is the strength of their starting staff. Charlie Morton struggled in Game 3, but Houston has McCullers, Justin Verlander and Dallas Keuchel lined up for the next three contests needing two wins to advance.
McCullers takes the mound Tuesday after a couple of strong starts against the Yankees during the regular season. He gave up three earned runs in 11.1 innings (2.38 ERA) with 13 strikeouts and two walks.
              
Dodgers (+104) at Cubs (-114)
Pitching Matchup: Yu Darvish (LAD) vs. Kyle Hendricks (CHC)
Cubs manager Joe Maddon was rightfully criticized for bringing in John Lackey rather than Wade Davis in the ninth inning of Game 2. Justin Turner delivered a walk-off home run two batters later to give Los Angeles a 2-0 lead as the series shifted to Chicago.
Afterward, Maddon spoke to the larger problem facing the Cubs as they attempt to defend their championship: a suddenly absent offense.
"We scored one run today," he told reporters. "That's the issue. We've scored 11 runs in six games during the playoffs."
The challenge for Kris Bryant, Anthony Rizzo and Co. doesn't get any easier against Darvish, who's one of the most dominant starters in baseball when in top form. He struck out 209 batters in 186.2 innings during the regular season and the Cubs haven't had the benefit of facing him this year.
Chicago will counter with Hendricks, who ranks second in ERA over the past two seasons among qualified starters behind only the Dodgers' Clayton Kershaw, per Fangraphs.
So all signs point toward a low-scoring, tension-filled night at Wrigley. The Cubs must figure out a way to grind out a victory in order to avoid what would probably be an insurmountable 3-0 Dodgers lead.



Boston Red Sox designated hitter Hanley Ramirez underwent shoulder surgery Tuesday, and he vowed on Twitter to come back stronger for the 2018 season:
Hi my people, went in for left shoulder surgery today, keep me in prayers. Coming back stronger in ‘18, love you all #RedSoxNation @RedSox https://t.co/axDr10BB5x
Ramirez had an excellent 2016 campaign in a Red Sox uniform. His .866 OPS marked his best in a season since 2013, when he only played in 86 games with the Los Angeles Dodgers due to injuries.
The 33-year-old took a step back in 2017 with a .242/.320/.429 slash line and 23 home runs in 133 games. Ramirez battled injuries throughout the season, including to his oblique, hamstring and shoulders.
His bat will be crucial for the Red Sox in 2018 as they look to win a third straight American League East title and get over the hump in the playoffs after losing in the division series each of the past two seasons.
Boston is facing big questions this offseason, particularly at manager since the team fired John Farrell after the 2017 season. Ramirez's health going into next season is another question mark for the franchise, though having a procedure done now gives him four months to get ready for spring training.



Major League Baseball is reportedly looking into expansion and possible realignment that would eliminate the American and National Leagues.  
Per Tracy Ringolsby of Baseball America, Portland, Oregon, and Montreal would be the target cities if MLB decides to expand for the first time since 1998. 
Ringolsby also noted one proposal, if MLB expands to 32 teams, "would be to geographically restructure into four divisions," instead of the current two-league, six-division format.  
MLB commissioner Rob Manfred said at a September news conference in Seattle that Portland "would be on a list" of potential expansion cities for the league. 
Manfred has also cited Montreal as a city of interest, and the Canadian Press reported in March that a group of investors met MLB's conditions to bring a team back to the city after the Expos left for Washington D.C. after the 2004 season. 
Ringolsby noted other elements of this potential realignment include a reduced schedule from 162 games to 156 games, with playoff teams being made up of the four division winners and the next eight teams by record playing four play-in games for the right to play the division champions. 
MLB last expanded in 1998 with the Arizona Diamondbacks and Tampa Bay Devil Rays, who have since dropped the Devil from their nickname, bringing the league to 30 teams. 



After Sunday's 4-1 victory over the Chicago Cubs in Game 2 of the National League Championship Series, the Los Angeles Dodgers hold a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven series.
While the team's offense has been solid over the first two games, scoring nine runs, the bullpen has made history to start the series. Prior to the 2017 NLCS, no bullpen in MLB history had ever opened a playoff series by retiring 24 consecutive batters, per Elias Sports Bureau (via ESPN.com). 
During the first two games of the series, Dodgers relievers have combined to pitch eight innings and faced 24 batters. Over those frames, they haven't surrendered a single hit or walk and have struck out nine batters.
The entire bullpen has been integral to the team's success, but closer Kenley Jansen has been in a class of his own. He's appeared in both games of the NLCS and pitched 2.1 innings, fanning six batters and collecting both a save and a win. 
Over the course of the 2017 postseason, Jansen has pitched six innings in five games, giving up just two hits.
Jansen's postseason dominance should not come as much of a surprise. During the regular season, he posted a 1.32 ERA and 0.75 WHIP while converting 41 of his 42 save opportunities. This marked his second consecutive season with a sub-2.00 ERA and 40-plus saves. 
The Dodgers, who are 5-0 this postseason, will look to extend their lead over the Cubs and add to their bullpen's record in Game 3 on Tuesday night in Chicago (9:01 p.m. ET). 



The New York Yankees are breathing easier following their 8-1 victory over the Houston Astros in Game 3 of the American League Championship Series, and they are now in a position to show their opponents that they are ready to turn this series into a dogfight.
Sonny Gray gets the starting assignment Tuesday at 5:08 p.m. ET for the Yankees, and he will be opposed by Lance McCullers of the Astros. The game will be televised by FS1.
Both pitchers have had recent issues, as Gray takes the mound with an 0-1 record and an 8.10 earned-run average in the postseason. McCullers is 0-3 with an 8.63 ERA in his last eight starts.
Todd Frazier and Aaron Judge belted home runs for the Yankees Monday night, while the Houston offense had a difficult time producing against CC Sabathia. Earlier in the playoffs, Houston was getting production up and down the lineup, but the Astros have suffered a downturn in the ALCS.

After hitting the ball hard in four ALDS games against the Boston Red Sox, the Astros are hitting just .169 against the Yankees. Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa continue to hit the ball well for Houston, but George Springer (1-for-11) and Josh Reddick (0-for-10) have suddenly gone into a cold spell.
Reddick had the game-winning hit in the series-clinching Game 4 against the Red Sox, but he looks lost at the plate. Springer was perhaps the team's second-best player during the season behind Altuve, but he is no longer making hard contact at this point. 
Reddick said the team can't worry about one loss and has to concentrate on Tuesday's assignment. 
"We need to put this game behind us," Reddick said, per Jerry Crasnick of ESPN.com. "We got our butts whipped tonight. That's the only way to put it. We didn’t come out and do our jobs. But it could be worse. We could be down 1-2. At least we've got a little bit of a lead now."
Springer believes the Astros don't have to do anything different as the series progresses because some of the offensive production problems are due to bad hitting luck. 
"The scoreboard doesn't always show how hard you hit the ball," Springer said. "I thought we hit some balls hard tonight that didn't fall. We're not going to change our approach just because we fly out to the track. We have a plan and an approach, and we stick to it."
Confidence is fairly high among the Yankees, and manager Joe Girardi pointed out that the team knows how to play its best baseball at Yankee Stadium.
"We're somewhat built for this ballpark, number one," Girardi said, per Stats TSX. "No. 2, you're familiar with it. You're familiar with everything that you do on a daily basis. You have your routine and you're able to be in your routine."
Game 5 of the series is scheduled for 5 p.m. Wednesday at Yankee Stadium. If the Yankees can extend the series, Game 6 is scheduled for 8 p.m. Friday at Minute Maid Park, and Game 7 will be played at 8 p.m. Saturday in Houston.
     
.@FlavaFraz21 gets all of New York (and definitely some of New Jersey) on its feet. #ALCS https://t.co/HKMpP3Iq75
Prediction
The Yankees surprised a lot of observers with the success they had in the regular season, then shocked the baseball world by coming back from an 0-2 deficit to take down the Cleveland Indians in the ALDS.
The Indians were largely considered to be the best team in baseball, and that victory has given the Yankees confidence they can compete with the Astros.
Look for the Yankees to have the advantage as they take the field Tuesday. They play well at home, and if Gray can make a couple of adjustments, he will be able to get the job done.
The Yankees should add a couple of more home runs against McCullers, and they will square the series with a convincing win in Game 4.



Could the Chicago Cubs' World Series defense be coming to an end?
After battling to edge the Washington Nationals in the National League Division Series, the Cubs have gone down two games in the 2017 NLCS against the juggernaut Los Angeles Dodgers. Now they will need to rely on the comfortable confines of Wrigley Field to break out of their slump and get back into this series.
Want to catch the action? Check out how you can tune in for Game 3.
   
NLCS Game 3 Viewing Schedule
When: Tuesday, Oct. 17 at 9 p.m. ET
Television: TBS
Live Stream: TBS Live
    
Game 3 Preview
The Cubs had no problems scoring runs after the All-Star break, leading MLB with a whopping 423 runs in that span. Yet the bats have gone cold this postseason.
The team is averaging under three runs a night in seven games, with nine of those coming in the ALDS Game 5 triumph over Washington. Granted, a decrease in scoring is expected when facing aces like Clayton Kershaw, Max Scherzer and Stephen Strasburg, but Chicago's current pace simply is not going to cut it.
Not when the Cubs' pitching has been down all season. After leading baseball with a 3.15 team ERA a year ago, Chicago's pitching dropped to a 3.95 mark in 2017. In the postseason, the team's ERA is 4.01.
The Cubs need several key guys to start hitting, including Kris Bryant and Anthony Rizzo, who are both batting below .200 in the playoffs. Javier Baez is the most floundering Cub at the moment, per ESPN Stats and Info:
Javier Báez: 0-19 in 2017 postseason 

Only longer Cubs hitless streak to start postseason: Jimmy Sheckard 0-21 (1906) (via @EliasSports)
On the other hand, the Dodgers have been excellent this postseason with five straight wins. 
They will trot out Yu Darvish in Game 3, which is a testament to the team's rotation depth. In a limited sample size, Darvish has been great against the current Cubs lineup. Bryant is 0-for-3, as Willson Contreras, Jason Heyward and Addison Russell are also hitless. Ben Zobrist is a brutal 2-for-12. Rizzo is the only Chicago hitter with much success, having smacked a two-run double off of Darvish.
That is not a good sign for Chicago, especially since it has yet to score a run off of Los Angeles' bullpen. 
Yet Kyle Hendricks will look to lift the Cubs back into this series. 
The righty has an exceptional playoff resume, which typically makes him a surefire option to boost this Chicago team. However, he was lit up for nine hits and four runs in just four innings in Game 5 against Washington. That is not normal for Hendricks, who entered the game with sick numbers, per MLB Network:
.@kylehendricks28's last four #Postseason starts = 🔥🔥🔥 https://t.co/7PE4ZGaiDD
Was his last start simply an anomaly? Perhaps, but he will have to take care of Justin Turner in order to shut down the Dodgers lineup, as the third baseman is turning in an MVP-type postseason performance.
He is batting .429 in October, hitting two homers and driving in 10 runs in the process. Need clutch hits? Turner is fresh off of a three-run walk-off shot to end Game 2, as he is hitting .375 in the NLCS. Per Sporting News' Ryan M. Spaeder, Turner is actually one of the best playoff hitters of all time:
Highest career #postseason OPS, minimum 90 plate appearances:

1. Lou Gehrig - 1.214
2. Babe Ruth - 1.214
3. Justin Turner - 1.115 https://t.co/vrDDAC1PUu
Turner is 2-for-7 lifetime against Hendricks, including a homer and three RBI. 
Chicago was pretty solid at home, 48-33, which was good for third-best in the NL. They have run into the league's top two road teams during the regular season, though, in Los Angeles and Washington. The Dodgers were 47-34 away from home in 2017, which could neutralize Chicago's home-field advantage.
There is something to be said about postseason experience, particularly since the Cubs have now played in the NLCS for three straight years. The Dodgers have been snakebitten in the playoffs, but this year just feels different.
Chicago is hanging on like never before, while Los Angeles is surging and finding ways to win games with offense and pitching. Until the Cubs can prove they can hit this postseason, it is hard to pick them over Darvish and the Dodgers. Expect a close one, but look for the road team to take a commanding 3-0 series lead.
Statistics are courtesy of MLB.com unless noted otherwise.



The 2017 MLB postseason is still underway, but the focus for some fans is already on the free-agent market this winter.
Next year's free-agent class receives a lot of attention, and rightfully so. Clayton Kershaw, Bryce Harper and Manny Machado could all hit the open market after the 2018 season. Still, more than a few impact players are available to the highest bidder this offseason.
Below are the most up-to-date rumors and predictions for two of the top free-agent sluggers and another star who could become a free agent as well.
          
Eric Hosmer

Eric Hosmer picked a great time to have a career year. The Kansas City Royals first baseman had a .318/.385/.498 slash line to go along with 25 home runs and 94 RBI. His .882 OPS was over 100 points higher than his career average (.781).
Hosmer is one of four Royals players instrumental to the team's recent success entering free agency. He, Mike Moustakas, Alcides Escobar and Lorenzo Cain all shared a moment at the end of Kansas City's 14-2 defeat to the Arizona Diamondbacks to end the regular season.
The real thing. #RaisedRoyal https://t.co/EWvQsm09HE
That felt like the end of an era for the Royals, but the Kansas City Star's Sam Mellinger reported the team plans on making a strong push to re-sign Hosmer. If the Royals successfully retain the 2016 All-Star, then they'd shift their focus toward re-signing Moustakas and Cain as well.
It will be interesting to see what contract Hosmer ultimately receives. He's not all that young, turning 28 Oct. 24, and he has never finished with a WAR higher than 4.1, according to FanGraphs. Between 2011 and 2017, Hosmer's 9.9 overall WAR ranks 17th among qualified first basemen, per FanGraphs.
Mellinger reported Hosmer's deal could total as much as $150 million.
Free-agent sluggers struggled to find homes last winter. Mark Trumbo got $37.5 million over three years from the Baltimore Orioles, while Edwin Encarnacion turned down a four-year, $80 million offer from the Toronto Blue Jays before signing with the Cleveland Indians for $60 million over three years.
Hosmer is seven years younger than Encarnacion and four years younger than Trumbo. Still, he hasn't displayed a ton of consistency from year to year, and asking for over $100 million could turn off some potential suitors.
At the same time, Hosmer's desire to maximize his earning power now makes sense since he's unlikely to be in a position to command a bigger contract.
The sentimental pull of staying in Kansas City could be alluring, but it's hard to see him potentially turning down more money as well as a better opportunity to contend in order to re-sign with the Royals.
Should the New York Yankees, who need a first baseman, come calling, the Royals may stand no chance of re-signing Hosmer.
Prediction: Hosmer signs with Yankees
              
Carlos Santana

Few position players set to hit free agency can boast the same level of offensive consistency Carlos Santana can. Santana once again had a solid season at the plate, hitting 23 home runs, driving in 79 runs and earning 88 walks.
A few years ago, Santana leaving Cleveland would've been a foregone conclusion and the Indians may have traded him before he could see out the duration of his contract with the team. That's the approach the franchise took with CC Sabathia, Cliff Lee and Victor Martinez.
Instead, ownership showed last offseason it's willing to spend in order to capitalize on the Indians' championship window.
According to Spotrac, the Indians had the 18th-highest payroll in MLB with a little over $139 million committed in player salaries. While that still puts Cleveland in the bottom half of the league, it's a jump from 2016, when the team had a total payroll of roughly $114 million, good for 22nd.
The Boston Globe's Nick Cafardo reported the Boston Red Sox and Seattle Mariners will both make a run at Santana. The ball may ultimately be in Cleveland's court, though.
"This will be tough for me after the season, but I'm going to have to make a hard decision about my career," Santana said in September, per Cleveland.com's Paul Hoynes. "I love it here. I don't want to go anywhere. Everybody knows. My teammates know. The front office knows. But that's not something I can control."
Santana is a career .249 hitter who turns 32 in April—two factors that could ensure he doesn't slip out of the Indians' price range. Cleveland may also be shedding $11 million from its payroll if it doesn't pick up Michael Brantley's $12 million option for 2018 and instead gives him the $1 million buyout.
Brantley has appeared in 101 games between 2016 and 2017 and no longer looks like the hitter who finished third in the 2014 American League MVP voting. If push comes to shove, then jettisoning Brantley to free up money to re-sign Santana would be a smart approach.
Warding off the Red Sox and Mariners won't be easy. Both teams have more financial resources at their disposal than Cleveland, and Boston can sell Santana on playing for a contender after making the playoffs the last two years.
The 2017 season shouldn't be the Indians' last real shot at a title, and that will give ownership enough incentive to sign off on an expensive extension for Santana.
Prediction: Santana re-signs with Indians
              
Justin Upton

Justin Upton isn't a free agent just yet. He's signed through 2021 but can opt out at any point beginning this winter.
When a player has an opt-out clause, conventional wisdom is he'll exercise that opportunity in order to chase more money in free agency. Upton may be an exception.
Some inside the Los Angeles Angels organization told FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman they believe Upton could opt out or use the clause as leverage in order to get a better deal. Heyman added that "most see it as a very close call."
According to the Orange County Register's Jeff Fletcher, Angels general manager Billy Eppler confirmed he had a "positive conversation" with Upton and his agent, Larry Reynolds. Eppler also said he and Upton have had an ongoing dialogue.
Following a somewhat-disappointing 2016 season, Upton returned to form in 2017. He hit 35 home runs and drove in a career-high 109 runs between his time with the Angels and Detroit Tigers. His .901 OPS was a career best as well.
Upton is set to make a little more than $22.1 million over each of the next four years.
If he's ever going to opt out, then this is likely his best opportunity. He turned 30 in August, and he's unlikely to hit any better than he did this past year.
The Angels have a strong incentive to keep him around. Mike Trout is under team control until 2020, giving Los Angeles a ticking clock that puts a premium on winning now. Having missed the playoffs in each of the last three seasons, the Angels can't keep wallowing in mediocrity with the best player in baseball.
Upton will opt out, but the Angels will pay what it takes to re-sign him. 
Prediction: Upton opts out; re-signs with Angels



Fact: CC Sabathia is the first pitcher aged 37 or older to throw six scoreless IP in postseason since Pedro Martinez in 2009.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: @RhettBollinger



The Los Angeles Dodgers will attempt to remain unbeaten this postseason when they visit the Chicago Cubs in a near pick'em Game 3 of the NLCS at Wrigley Field on Tuesday. The Cubs are listed as small home favorites at the sportsbooks for the contest, and they have dropped four of seven in the playoffs at Wrigley Field dating back to last year's NLCS against the Dodgers.
Betting line: The Cubs opened as -119 favorites (wager $119 to win $100) according to sportsbooks monitored by OddsShark. (Line updates and matchup report)
MLB betting pick, via OddsShark computer: 6.4-0.4, Dodgers (MLB picks on every game)
Why the Dodgers can pay on the MLB lines
Los Angeles is in prime position to make it back to the World Series now after improving to 5-0 in this year's playoffs by taking the first two games of the NLCS at home. The Dodgers surrendered early leads to the Cubs in both games but were able to rally offensively in the later innings and count on their superior bullpen to shut the door on the defending World Series champions
Los Angeles will be sending Yu Darvish (10-12, 3.86 ERA) to the hill for Game 3, and he pitched great in his lone postseason start on the road versus the Arizona Diamondbacks, allowing one run and two hits in five innings.
Why the Cubs can pay on the MLB lines
Chicago has not lost three consecutive postseason games since getting swept by the New York Mets in the 2015 NLCS.
While Los Angeles may be on its way to doing the same thing, the Cubs have shown a unique ability to recover quickly and turn around a series after it looked like they were done. They rallied from a 3-1 deficit against the Cleveland Indians to win last year's World Series after ousting the Dodgers in the NLCS with three straight wins after losing twice.
Smart betting pick
The big edge Chicago has in Game 3 is starting pitcher Kyle Hendricks (7-5, 3.03), who has been brilliant when facing Los Angeles in the past. Hendricks gave up only two runs and eight hits combined in 20.2 innings over three starts versus the Dodgers last season, including two in the NLCS, walking five and striking out 17.
The Cubs are essentially facing a must-win situation in this spot, and there is no better pitcher for them than Hendricks. Bet on Chicago on the MLB lines to hand Los Angeles its first loss in this year's playoffs.
MLB betting trends
Los Angeles is 4-1 in its last five games on the road.
Los Angeles is 5-0 in its last five games when playing Chicago.
Chicago is 9-2 in its last 11 games at home.
All MLB odds and betting trends courtesy of Bleacher Report’s official odds partner, OddsShark. All quotes gathered firsthand unless otherwise noted. Check out Twitter for injury and line-movement updates and the OddsShark YouTube page for picks and analysis, or download the free odds tracker app.



The beautiful thing about the MLB postseason is that anyone can be a hero.
Just look back at the New York Yankees' storied history.
Alongside names like Babe Ruth, Derek Jeter, Reggie Jackson, Yogi Berra and Whitey Ford, we've seen the likes of Bucky Dent, Don Larsen, Jim Leyritz, Luis Sojo, Bobby Richardson and Brian Doyle play the part of playoff hero.
With that in mind, we set out to name the biggest postseason hero in the history of each MLB franchise.

It's fair to say the Arizona Diamondbacks wouldn't have won the 2001 World Series without both Randy Johnson and Curt Schilling to shoulder the load atop the starting rotation.
We had to pick just one here, so the Big Unit gets the nod.
After throwing a three-hit shutout in Game 2, Johnson took the ball in Game 6 as the D-backs faced elimination and picked up the win with seven strong innings.
He wasn't finished there, though.
On zero days' rest after throwing 104 pitches, he recorded four outs in the decisive Game 7, keeping the score at 2-1 to set up the walk-off win in the bottom of the ninth inning.

Warren Spahn was the headliner of the Milwaukee Braves staff during the 1957 regular season, going 21-11 with a 2.69 ERA to win the only Cy Young Award of his Hall of Fame career.
But it was Lew Burdette who stole the show that October.
Facing the defending champion New York Yankees in the Fall Classic, Burdette earned three complete-game victories in a seven-game series.
The Braves wouldn't win another World Series title until 1995.
However, the club's 1992 NLCS victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates did provide some unlikely heroes in Francisco Cabrera and Sid Bream, and they're worthy of a mention here as well.

The first thing most people think about when it comes to Baltimore Orioles great Brooks Robinson is his stellar defensive work at third base.
That's understandable given the fact that he won 16 Gold Glove Awards over the course of his 23-year career. The 1970 World Series was more of the same as he turned in one highlight-reel play after another.
However, he also led the way offensively in that series, going 9-for-21 with two doubles, two home runs and six RBI to claim MVP honors.
Robinson was a .267 career hitter with a .723 OPS, but he consistently performed well in October.
The O's made the World Series three straight years from 1969 to 1971, and Robinson hit .354 with an .864 OPS that included six doubles, three home runs and 18 RBI in 107 plate appearances during that span.

Despite enduring the Curse of the Bambino, there was no shortage of potential candidates for the Boston Red Sox.
Carlton Fisk provided the most indelible moment in Red Sox postseason history when he waved that home run fair in Game 6 of the 1975 World Series, but Boston would go on to lose the series.
Dave Henderson hit a momentum-shifting, go-ahead home run in Game 5 of the 1986 ALCS, but that season will forever be linked to Bill Bucker's error in the World Series.
Considering how ingrained terms like "The Bloody Sock" and "The Steal" are in Red Sox lore, Curt Schiling and Dave Roberts have a place in the conversation as well.
But the October heroics of David Ortiz are on another level.
His walk-off home run in Game 4 of the 2004 ALCS kicked off one of the greatest comebacks in sports history as the Red Sox rallied from down 3-0 to topple the rival Yankees and advance to the World Series.
The next day he did it again, driving home the game-winning run in the 14th inning of Game 5.
Those two hits will live on forever, but he had plenty more October highlights on his way to batting .289/.404/.543 with 17 home runs and 61 RBI in 369 career postseason plate appearances.
He also won World Series MVP in 2013, hitting a ridiculous .688 with two home runs and six RBI.

When you go 108 years without a World Series title, postseason heroes are few and far between.
Orval Overall deserves a mention for his role in leading the team to back-to-back titles in 1907 and 1908 as he went 3-0 with a 0.99 ERA in four starts and one relief appearances, recording three complete games and a hold along the way.
But we'll go with Ben Zobrist as the choice for the Cubs on the strength of his World Series MVP performance last season.
His .357 average and zero home runs might not seem MVP-worthy on the surface, but he turned in one professional at-bat after another in the series.
None was bigger than his RBI double in the top of the 10th inning of Game 7, which gave the Cubs the lead for good on their way to the title.

The 2005 World Series provided two of the more unlikely postseason heroes in recent memory in the form of Geoff Blum and Scott Podsednik.
The Chicago White Sox reached the Fall Classic that year on the strength of a strong starting rotation, and it was outfielder Jermaine Dye who won World Series MVP honors with a .438 average.
Yet a walk-off home run from Podsednik in Game 2 and an extra-innings game-winner from Blum as a defensive replacement in Game 3 live on as the enduring memories from that series.
It's tough to decide which one was more unlikely.
Podsednik went without a home run in 568 plate appearances during the regular season before going deep in Game 1 of the ALDS and then turning around Astros closer Brad Lidge in the World Series.
For Blum, his home run came in the top of the 14th inning in what would be his only plate appearance of the World Series.
A strong case can be made for both guys, but we'll go with Podsednick and the walk-off for top honors.

The Big Red Machine of the 1970s gave us some of the best teams in MLB history, but there was never a clear standout as far as one postseason hero.
With that in mind, right-hander Jose Rijo earns the nod for the Cincinnati Reds.
The Reds entered the 1990 World Series as heavy underdogs against an Oakland Athletics team that had won three straight AL pennants and gone 103-59 during the regular season.
However, Rijo set the tone with seven shutout innings in Game 1 to give the Reds an early series lead.
When he took the ball again in Game 4, it was with a chance to finish off a sweep, and he would do just that.
Rijo allowed just two hits and one earned run in 8.1 innings before turning it over to closer Randy Myers for the final two outs.
His peak may have been a short one, but at his best, Rijo was as good as any pitcher from that era.

There's a good chance we're talking about Rajai Davis here if the Cubs don't pull out a win in Game 7 of last year's World Series.
Instead, Hall of Famer Stan Coveleski is a worthy alternative.
A 215-game winner despite playing just 11 full seasons, Coveleski was the driving force behind the team's World Series title in 1920—the first in franchise history.
After going 24-14 with a 2.49 ERA and leading the AL in WHIP (1.11) and strikeouts (133) during the regular season, he joined an exclusive club by throwing three complete games in a seven-game series with the then-Brooklyn Robins.
Makes last year's performance from Corey Kluber in the playoffs seem downright human.

When a franchise has just nine postseason victories to its credit and none in the World Series, finding a postseason hero can be tricky.
Clearly, it has to be someone from the 2007 squad that swept its way through the NLDS and NLCS to make the franchise's only appearance in the World Series.
Kaz Matsui had a huge NLDS that year (14 PA, .417 BA, 4 XBH, 6 RBI), and Matt Holliday won NLCS MVP honors (17 PA, .333 BA, 2 HR, 4 RBI), but we'll go with closer Manny Corpas.
Corpas replaced Brian Fuentes in the ninth-inning role midway through the 2007 season and wound up tallying 19 saves in 22 chances with a 2.08 ERA in 78 appearances.
He went on to save all three games of the NLDS and two more in the NLCS, allowing five hits and one earned run in 8.2 innings along the way.

Kirk Gibson (1984) and Magglio Ordonez (2006) hit the two most iconic home runs in Detroit history, and Goose Goslin had a walk-off, series-winning RBI single in 1935.
Still, there's little question who the choice should be for the Tigers.
Denny McLain made headlines by winning 31 games during the regular season in 1968, but it was left-hander Mickey Lolich who was on the mound opposite St. Louis Cardinals ace Bob Gibson in Game 7 that year.
Both pitchers went the distance, and Lolich came out on top, allowing five hits and one earned run in a 4-1 victory to clinch MVP honors.
That was the third complete game for both pitchers in the series, and Lolich earned a victory each time out, although his only head-to-head matchup with Gibson was Game 7.
Lolich may not be in the Hall of Fame, but he'll always have that series.

Chris Burke received serious consideration for his walk-off home run in Game 4 of the 2005 NLDS—a memorable marathon game that lasted a record 18 innings.
So did Dallas Keuchel for his masterful performance in the 2015 Wild Card Game to send the New York Yankees home and the Astros to their first Division Series since 2005. 
However, there was no ignoring what Carlos Beltran did in 2004.
That's as impactful as it gets for a hired gun, as Beltran joined the Astros at the trade deadline that summer and then departed for a big free-agent deal with the Mets.
Still, he left his mark on the franchise and was welcomed back with open arms as a free agent this past offseason.

George Brett is the face of the Kansas City Royals, and his three-run home run off Goose Gossage in Game 3 of the 1980 ALCS is right up there with the Pine Tar Incident as the most memorable moments in franchise history.
However, postseason hero honors go to Bret Saberhagen for his work in the 1985 World Series, as David Crawford Jones of MLB.com explained:
"Few in MLB history have enjoyed a week as inspired as the one Saberhagen experienced in October 1985. The right-handed hurler threw a complete-game six-hitter to bring the Royals back from a 2-0 Series hole in Game 3, but he didn't stop there. Saberhagen would secure the franchise its first world title with a Game 7 shutout at Royals Stadium, and he did so just one day after his wife delivered their first child.
"Asked after the Series how he could ever top such a string of achievements, Saberhagen deadpanned, 'Well, you go out and do the same things I did last year, but have twins instead of just one.'"
Guys like Lorenzo Cain, Mike Moustakas and Eric Hosmer made a name for themselves on a national level during the team's back-to-back Fall Classic appearances in 2014 and 2015, but none shined bright enough to unseat Saberhagen.

Francisco Rodriguez joined the Anaheim Angels as a September call-up in 2002, appearing in five games and striking out 13 over 5.2 scoreless innings.
That was enough to win him a spot on the postseason roster, and the 20-year-old would quickly become the biggest X-factor in the team's run to a World Series title.
With All-Star Troy Percival entrenched as the team's closer, K-Rod was free to be used whenever the situation presented itself, giving manager Mike Scioscia a unique weapon that we see more and more in today's game with guys like Andrew Miller.
Scott Spiezio's series-shifting home run in Game 6 of the World Series and rookie John Lackey's win in Game 7 are also worthy of mention, but the Angels don't make it that far without Rodriguez.

Along with his countless regular-season accolades, Sandy Koufax has a pair of World Series MVP awards on his mantle.
After he lasted just six innings in Game 1 of the 1965 series, he bounced back with a pair of complete-game shutouts, including a three-hit, 10-strikeout performance in Game 7.
It was tempting to go with Kirk Gibson and his iconic, hobbled trot around the bases after he took Dennis Eckersley deep in Game 1 of the 1988 World Series.
However, Koufax played a much bigger role in the team's winning not one, but two titles.

Considering they've only been around since 1993, the Marlins have some compelling cases for their top postseason hero.
Edgar Renteria's walk-off RBI single in Game 7 of the 1997 World Series is the most iconic moment in franchise history, and Livan Hernandez helped them get there by winning NLCS and World Series MVP that season.
However, we'll go with Josh Beckett for his performance in Game 6 of the 2003 World Series.
Beckett was well-known as a big-game pitcher during his time with the Boston Red Sox, but it was that postseason when he earned his reputation.
Just 23 years old at the time, he went into Yankee Stadium with the Marlins up 3-2 in the series and tossed a five-hit shutout against a Yankees team that had won 101 games during the regular season.

The Milwaukee Brewers have reached the postseason just four times in the 49-year history of the franchise, and their only trip to the World Series came in 1982.
They might not have gotten there without Cecil Cooper.
The first baseman put together a terrific regular season, hitting .313/.342/.528 with 38 doubles, 32 home runs and 121 RBI to finish fifth in NL MVP voting.
However, he was batting just .105 in his first 19 at-bats of the postseason when he stepped to the plate with the bases loaded, two outs and the Brewers trailing 3-2 in the bottom of the seventh in the decisive Game 5 of the ALCS.
He delivered when it mattered most, lining a two-run single off reliever Luis Sanchez to give the Brewers a 4-3 lead. That would stand up as the final score and clinch the franchise's only trip to the Fall Classic.

The Minnesota Twins gave 36-year-old Jack Morris a one-year, $3.7 million contract to serve as the ace of a young staff that also included Kevin Tapani (27) and Scott Erickson (23).
He held up his end of the bargain, going 18-12 with a 3.43 ERA in 246.2 innings of work to finish fourth in AL Cy Young voting. The Twins won a division title thanks to a 21-win improvement over the previous season.
Morris kept rolling in October, going 3-0 with a 3.08 ERA in his first four starts before earning the nod in the decisive Game 7 of the World Series.
Pitching opposite a 24-year-old John Smoltz, Morris traded zeroes through seven innings before the Braves went to the bullpen.
When the top of the 10th rolled around, things were still scoreless, and Morris was still on the mound for the Twins.
Morris blanked the Braves for one more inning, and a Gene Larkin RBI single in the bottom of the 10th gave the Twins the title.
Kirby Puckett's walk-off home run in the 11th inning of Game 6 is worth a mention as well.

Tom Seaver was the ace of the 1969 Miracle Mets, going 25-7 with a 2.21 ERA and 208 strikeouts to win his first of three NL Cy Young Awards.
However, left-hander Jerry Koosman was no slouch, as he finished 17-9 with a 2.28 ERA and 180 strikeouts while earning his second straight trip to the All-Star Game.
And it was Koosman who shined brightest in the World Series that year.
After Seaver took the loss in Game 1, Koosman allowed just two hits and one earned run over 8.2 innings in Game 2, quieting a dangerous Orioles lineup and evening the series.
The Mets won the next two, setting Koosman up to start the potential clincher, and he delivered with a complete-game victory.
Shoutout to backup catcher Todd Pratt for his walk-off home run in Game 4 of the 1999 NLDS to send the Mets to the Divison Series.

So far, we've mostly highlighted players who had one defining moment or one standout series to etch their name in franchise lore.
For Derek Jeter, it was his entire body of work.
He essentially played an entire extra season with 158 career postseason games to his credit, and his numbers stack up to any of his full-season stat lines.
He won five titles and 2000 World Series MVP, and his backhanded relay flip in the 2001 ALDS and walk-off home run in Game 4 of the 2001 World Series go down as two of the more memorable moments in his storied career.
There was no shortage of choices for the Yankees, from "Mr. October" Reggie Jackson to Chris Chambliss walking off in the 1976 ALCS on down to Bucky "Bleeping" Dent" and Aaron "Bleeping" Boone.
It's hard to argue against Jeter, though.

Dave Stewart started 14 playoff games for the Oakland Athletics over four different postseasons from 1988 to 1992.
The A's went 10-4 in those games, and he was nothing short of brilliant:
He earned World Series MVP in 1989 and ALCS MVP in 1990, winning both his starts and posting an ERA under 2.00 in each of those series.
Stewart is another player who had a relatively short peak, but over a four-year span from 1987 to 1990, he was as good as any pitcher in the game, going 84-45 with a 3.20 ERA while averaging 265 innings per season and finishing in the top four in Cy Young voting each year.
Those Oakland staffs also featured the likes of Bob Welch, Mike Moore and Storm Davis, but there was no question Stewart was the ace.

Cole Hamels was just 24 years old when he led the Philadelphia Phillies to a World Series title in 2008.
After throwing eight shutout innings in his lone NLDS start, he won NLCS and World Series MVP honors while going a combined 4-0 with a 1.80 ERA, 0.91 WHIP and a .190 opponent's batting average in five starts.
That's enough for him to be the clear choice for the Phillies.
Mike Schmidt also deserves a mention; he went 8-for-21 with two home runs and seven RBI to win World Series MVP in 1980 when the Phillies bested the Royals.

There were some tough choices to make when putting this list together.
This was not one of them.
Bill Mazeroski is widely regarded as the best defensive second baseman in MLB history, but it was his bat that made him a legend.
After hitting just 11 home runs during the regular season, Mazeroski took Ralph Terry deep leading off the bottom of the ninth in a tied Game 7 of the 1960 World Series.
It was the first World Series-winning home run in MLB history and a fitting end to a wild game that saw the Pirates score five runs in the eighth to take a 9-7 lead, only to surrender that lead in the top of the ninth.
Willie Stargell deserves a mention as well for winning NLCS and World Series MVP as the leader of the 1979 team that bested the Orioles in seven games.

As the San Diego Padres faced elimination in Game 4 of the 1984 NLCS, first baseman Steve Garvey hit the biggest home run in franchise history.
After Padres closer Goose Gossage blew a save in the top of the eighth, the Cubs turned to their own stopper Lee Smith to try to keep the game tied.
He worked a scoreless bottom of the eighth, and things stayed knotted at 5-5 heading into the bottom of the ninth.
Alan Wiggins struck out to start the inning, but Tony Gwynn singled and Garvey deposited a 1-0 pitch into the right-center stands for the walk-off winner.
The next night, the Padres clinched their first trip to the World Series with a 6-3 victory.

Madison Bumgarner's performance in Game 7 of the 2014 World Series alone would be enough for him to earn the nod for the Giants.
Two days after he threw 117 pitches in a four-hit shutout, manager Bruce Bochy turned to Bumgarner as the Giants clung to a 3-2 lead heading into the bottom of the fifth.
After allowing a leadoff single to start the fifth, he settled in and dominated the rest of the way, allowing just one more hit while striking out four to record the rare 15-out save.
He finished that World Series with a 0.43 ERA in 21 innings of work. All told, he went 4-1 with a 1.03 ERA in six starts and one relief appearances in a postseason that began with a shutout of the Pirates in the Wild Card Game.
Bumgarner threw another shutout in the 2016 Wild Card Game, this time against the Mets.
Still just 28 years old, he's already authored one of the most impressive postseason resumes of any pitcher in MLB history.

The Double.
It's an iconic moment in Seattle sports history, and it may very well have saved baseball in the city.
After falling behind 2-0 in the 1995 ALDS to the Yankees, the Mariners won the next two games to force a decisive Game 5.
A two-run bottom of the eighth from the M's made it a 4-4 game, and manager Lou Piniella turned to ace Randy Johnson on one day rest to try to keep things tied.
That plan worked for two innings, but Randy Velarde delivered an RBI single in the top of the 11th to give the Yankees a 5-4 lead.
However, the Mariners weren't finished battling, as Joey Cora and Ken Griffey Jr. led off the bottom of the inning with consecutive singles to bring up Edgar Martinez.
He promptly doubled down the left field line, and Griffey raced around the bases to score the winning run from first, completing the improbable comeback and giving the Mariners their first postseason series victory.
Martinez finished that series 12-for-21 with three doubles, two home runs and 10 RBI.

Bob Gibson vs. David Freese was without a doubt the toughest decision.
Freese delivered a two-run, game-tying triple with the Cardinals down to their final strike in Game 6 of the 2011 World Series and then turned around and hit the game-winning home run in the 11th inning.
That's some high-level hero play, and it earned him World Series MVP honors after he also took home NLCS MVP that same season.
However, Bob Gibson is one of the greatest postseason pitchers the game has ever seen.
He appeared in three World Series, made three starts in each series and pitched nine innings in each start.
All told, he went 7-2 with a 1.89 ERA, 0.89 WHIP and 92 strikeouts in 81 innings, winning MVP in the 1964 and 1967 along the way.
He also turned in the most dominant start in World Series history in Game 1 of the 1968 Series, striking out 17 hitters in a five-hit shutout.
The fact that we've made it this far without mentioning Enos Slaughter and his "Mad Dash" to score the winning run in Game 7 of the 1946 Series should tell you how good of a case those other two guys have.

The Tampa Bay Rays have just two postseason series wins to their credit, and they both came in 2008 when they reached the World Series.
Evan Longoria and B.J. Upton both hit four home runs in the team's seven-game ALCS victory over the Red Sox that year, but we'll go with ALCS MVP Matt Garza.
Garza picked up the win in Game 3 of the series, going six innings and allowing six hits and one run to get the better of Jon Lester.
Those two squared off again in the winner-take-all seventh game, and it was Garza who reigned supreme once again.
He allowed two hits and one run over seven innings before turning things over to a foursome of relievers to close things out—including a memorable save by David Price.

The Texas Rangers came up short in the 2010 and 2011 World Series, and a misplay by Nelson Cruz in right field in Game 6 in 2011 might have cost the team a title.
However, they would not have made it that far without his huge ALCS performance:
In fact, in those two postseasons combined, he posted a 1.019 OPS with nine doubles, 14 home runs and 27 RBI in 33 games.
For a Rangers team that has only advanced beyond the Division Series those two times, that's enough for him to wear the crown of biggest postseason hero.

This one was another no-brainer.
When a World Series ends with your teammates carrying you off the field on their shoulders, there's a good chance you've reached hero status.
The Blue Jays led the 1993 Series 3-2 and were up 5-1 heading into the top of the seventh inning of Game 6.
However, the Phillies struck for five runs in the seventh behind a three-run homer from Lenny Dykstra, and they were still clinging to that 6-5 lead to begin the bottom of the ninth.
On came closer Mitch Williams.
After a leadoff walk to Rickey Henderson and a one-out single from Paul Molitor, Carter stepped to the plate and hit a high fly ball to left field that just cleared the wall for a walk-off, series-ending home run.

The Washington Nationals have failed to advance beyond the Division Series in all four of their trips to the postseason since moving from Montreal.
And the Expos only made the playoffs once, reaching the NLCS in 1981.
We have to go back that far to find our postseason hero, Steve Rogers.
The ace of the staff and one of the more underrated pitchers of his era, Rogers outdueled Phillies star Steve Carlton twice in the NLDS, including a shutout in the decisive Game 5.
He also pitched a complete game in his lone NLCS start, allowing seven hits and one run to pick up the win.
     
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, unless otherwise noted.



The first change of scenery in the championship series portion of the MLB playoffs benefited the New York Yankees, who took Game 3 of the ALCS from the Houston Astros on Monday night. 
The Chicago Cubs will hope to do the same thing Tuesday at Wrigley Field against the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Given the quality of the teams and what's at stake, the next few days of playoff baseball should be intriguing. 
     
Latest Results
ALCS (Astros lead series 2-1) 
Game 1: Astros 2, Yankees 1
Game 2: Astros 2, Yankees 1
Game 3: Yankees 8, Astros 1
NLCS (Dodgers lead series 2-0) 
Game 1: Dodgers 5, Cubs 2
Game 2: Dodgers 4, Cubs 1
     
Schedule
ALCS
Game 4: Astros at Yankees, Tuesday, October 17, 5:08 p.m. ET
Game 5: Astros at Yankees, Wednesday, October 18, 5:08 p.m. ET
Game 6 (if necessary): Yankees at Astros, Friday, October 20, 8:08 p.m. ET
Game 7 (if necessary): Yankees at Astros, Saturday, October 21, 8:08 p.m. ET
NLCS
Game 3: Dodgers at Cubs, Tuesday, October 17, 9:08 p.m. ET
Game 4: Dodgers at Cubs, Wednesday, October 18, 9:08 p.m. ET
Game 5 (if necessary): Dodgers at Cubs, Thursday, October 19, 8:08 p.m. ET
Game 6 (f necessary): Cubs at Dodgers, Saturday, October 21, 4:08 p.m. ET
Game 7 (if necessary): Cubs at Dodgers, Sunday, October 22, 7:38 p.m. ET
     
Predictions
Powered by Aaron Judge, Todd Frazier and CC Sabathia, the Yankees flipped the momentum in the ALCS with an 8-1 Game 3 victory Monday. 
The win was significant in a few phases of the game for New York. Judge finally broke out of his postseason slump with a three-run home run, Sabathia continued to prove he can be a reliable starter despite his age, and Chad Green, David Robertson and Aroldis Chapman got an extra day of rest. 

The one hiccup in Game 3 was Dellin Betances' relief appearance, as the right-hander walked two batters and gave up the only Astros run in the top of the ninth before being pulled for Tommy Kahnle. With Green, Robertson and Chapman fresh, we might not see much of Betances for the rest of the series. 
Houston's offense sputtered for the first time in the ALCS in Game 3. Most of the Astros' hits came from the first four batters in the order, while the rest went 1-for-15. If the production at the top of the order dries up, it could be a long few days for A.J. Hinch's men. 
Hinch provided the simplest of answers as to why he's trusting Lance McCullers with the Game 4 start, per MLB.com's Mark Feinsand: 
Lance McCullers will start Game 4 for Houston. Why? “He’s really good,” A.J. Hinch said. #ALCS
However, McCullers enters Game 4 with a season road ERA of 5.14, and he hasn't won a start since June. Sonny Gray's ALDS start didn't inspire anyone either, though, as he lasted 3.2 innings, and he only has a 3.72 ERA since the All-Star break. Based off these splits, Game 4 will most likely be decided by the bullpens, and the Yankees have the upper hand with fresh arms. 
Game 4 Prediction: Yankees 5, Astros 2
The Cubs are still reeling from Game 2—specifically, from Justin Turner's walk-off three-run home run against John Lackey. 
Joe Maddon was crucified for his decision to not bring in Wade Davis in the tie game, but he further explained his rationale on Monday, per MLB.com's Carrie Muskat: 
Maddon says Davis was not coming into Sunday's game unless the #Cubs had the lead
Maddon also offered up that there might be changes to the lineup, but he also added, per Muskat, that he has confidence in the guys on his roster: 
Maddon looking into possible changes to lineup but adds, "This is who we are. I have a ton of faith and trust in our guys" #Cubs
Tuesday's pitching matchup at Wrigley Field will be a delight, with Yu Darvish squaring off against Kyle Hendricks. Just like in Game 2, there will be a slim margin for error on both sides; one mistake could cost either team the game. 
Hendricks had success in Game 6 of the 2016 NLCS against the Dodgers, as he twirled 7.1 scoreless innings, while Darvish is still new to some Cubs batters since he pitched in the AL for the Texas Rangers before being dealt to the Dodgers in July. 
The stage is set for Hendricks to steal the stage once again, but the only way the Cubs come out on top Tuesday is if their bats get going early and tack on a late insurance run or two against the stingy Dodgers bullpen.
Game 3 Prediction: Cubs 3, Dodgers 2
     
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90. 
All statistics obtained from MLB.com. 



The New York Yankees climbed back into the American League Championship Series on Monday at Yankee Stadium, defeating the Houston Astros 8-1 in Game 3 to cut the series deficit to 2-1.As he has done so many times this season, starting pitcher CC Sabathia stopped the bleeding for the Yankees, throwing six shutout innings while striking out five. Aaron Judge and Todd Frazier provided the spark on offense, with both players smacking three-run homers.The Yankees avoided going down three games to none, a playoff precipice that only one team has ever come back from (2004 Boston Red Sox against the Yankees, in case you forgot). With the series rejuvenated and the Yanks looking to secure another win at home before heading back to Houston, here's a look at the viewing info for Game 4.
        
Yankees vs. Astros ALCS Game 4 Info
When: Tuesday, Oct. 17 at 5:08 p.m. ET
Where: Yankee Stadium in New York City
TV: FS1
Live Stream: MLB.TV (subscription), FoxSportsGo
Tickets: StubHub
         
The Astros might feel comfortable knowing that despite their offense's inability to get much going through three games, they still have the series and home-field advantage.
Houston won Games 1 and 2 by scores of 2-1, with starters Dallas Keuchel and Justin Verlander shutting down the Yankees bats and allowing the team to do just enough to win. Charlie Morton failed to keep the momentum going, allowing seven earned runs in 3.2 innings of work. 
Houston saw reliever Will Harris give up another run in one-third of an inning, but then Collin McHugh got the bullpen back on track with four shutout innings of long relief. The Astros will try to get back on track behind right-handed starter Lance McCullers in Game 4 for a simple reason, per MLB.com's Mark Feinsand:
Lance McCullers will start Game 4 for Houston. Why? “He’s really good,” A.J. Hinch said. #ALCS
The 24-year-old was excellent for much of the season, even making his first All-Star Game, but his ERA ballooned from 2.69 at the end of June to 4.25 by the end of the 2017 season. Injuries saw him miss the entire month of August. 
McCullers has just one postseason appearance so far, giving up two runs and striking out four in three innings of long relief in the Astros' Game 3 loss to the the Boston Red Sox in the ALDS.
McCullers' opposite on the mound will be Sonny Gray. The 27-year-old came to New York from Oakland via a midseason trade and has been solid in pinstripes, posting a 3.72 ERA in 65.1 innings of work after swapping uniforms.

However, he struggled in his first postseason outing, giving up three runs in 3.1 innings against the Cleveland Indians in Game 1 of the ALDS. However, Gray is drawing confidence from his experience playing against Houston as a member of the Athletics.
"I feel like I have thrown the ball pretty well against these guys," Gray said per the Houston Chronicle's Hunter Atkins. "And it's going to be a good challenge tomorrow and one that I'm ready for."Gray will take heart in the fact that the Yankees' own bats woke up in a big way for Game 3, and the defense was pretty solid as well.
Frazier's three-run blast in the second inning was supplemented by Judge's own blistering shot to the cheap seats.
Judge also thrilled the Yankees faithful with some stellar glove work, the best example being this leaping grab at the wall in the fourth inning, per MLB: 
AARON JUDGE! WHAT A CATCH!

Is the wall OK?  https://t.co/DF3jWw9KS1
MLB Network's Jon Morosi made this quip after the stunning grab: 
Yankee Stadium wall being sent for precautionary X-Rays after colliding with Aaron Judge. Status update forthcoming. @MLB
The Yankees are no strangers to players crafting their legends in October and beyond, and Judge put in a performance in Game 3 that will only have fans salivating, hoping it's the beginning of many great fall moments to come. 
Houston has plenty of great individual players, but it's the top-to-bottom team effort that has gotten them this far. The pitching work has been mostly excellent, and Houston manager A.J. Hinch should be able to go to whichever bullpen arm he needs after McHugh's long-relief stint and Verlander's one-run, 13-strike complete game gem in Game 2. 
The bats need to come alive, however, as the Astros have struggled to string hits together. Of their 15 hits in this series, nine have come from second baseman Jose Altuve and shortstop Carlos Correa.
The team has gotten exactly what it's needed from the heart of its lineup, but the rest of the roster is faltering in this regard. 
Houston will have to capitalize on Gray's shaky displays as a Yankee if they want to take overwhelming control of this series. 



Justin Turner drove what could be a fatal blow to the Chicago Cubs on Sunday night, blasting a three-run walk-off home run to give the Los Angeles Dodgers a 2-0 lead in the National League Championship Series.
The homer came 29 years to the day after Kirk Gibson's famous walk-off blast in Game 1 of the 1988 World Series.
"One of my earliest baseball memories was being at my grandma's house and watching that game in '88 and seeing Gibby hit that homer," Turner told reporters afterward. "So, yeah, it feels pretty cool. I thought about doing the fist-pump around the bases, but we'll wait until we get to the World Series for that, hopefully."
Yasiel Puig and Chris Taylor both drew walks earlier in the ninth to set up Turner, who drove in all four runs of the Dodgers win. He has recorded at least one hit in every game this postseason and has multiple hits in three of Los Angeles' five games, all of which were wins.
"Once that walk occurred, all bets were off against Turner," Cubs manager Joe Maddon told reporters. "Nobody is a really great matchup against Turner, so it just did not work out."
The Dodgers, who have not made the World Series since 1988, are now in the proverbial driver's seat and two wins away from exorcising their NLCS demons. They have made the NLCS six times in the last decade; the previous five all resulted in losses.
The Cubs sent Los Angeles home in six games last season on their way to winning a World Series.
"A heartbreaker for who?" Cubs pitcher John Lester, who gave up one run on three hits over 4.2 innings, asked reporters. "It's a loss. We're not over. We're not done. Guys walked in here upbeat, ready to go for Tuesday. We had some music playing before you guys (media) got in here. We've all lost games before. We've all lost series before. So we'll move on to Tuesday."
The series moves to Chicago on Tuesday, where the Cubs will hope Kyle Hendricks can outduel Yu Darvish. Hendricks' two starts this season have gone in opposite directions, though both finished in Cubs wins. 
The right-hander gave up four runs in four innings of work in the Cubs' Game 5 victory over the Washington Nationals in the NLDS.
Darvish gave up only one earned run in five innings in his lone postseason start, a 3-1 victory over the Arizona Diamondbacks. He was in the game for just 74 pitches. The Dodgers have kept him to a conservative pitch count since his arrival from the Texas Rangers; Darvish has only reached 100 pitches once in 10 starts.
The Dodgers' deep pitching staff is an issue for a Cubs lineup that has struggled to score all postseason despite finishing fourth in runs scored during the regular season. 
            
Game Info
Date: Oct. 17
Time: 9 p.m. ET
Live Stream: Watch TBS Live
Tickets: StubHub
Prediction: Cubs 4, Dodgers 3



Lo and behold, falling into a 2-0 hole was not the beginning of the end for the New York Yankees in the American League Championship Series.
Having already shocked the Cleveland Indians by coming back from a 2-0 deficit in the American League Division Series, the Yankees have started on their way to doing the same to the Houston Astros in the ALCS after an 8-1 win in Game 3 at Yankee Stadium on Monday night.
As most romps are, this one was a total team effort.
CC Sabathia hurled six shutout innings. Todd Frazier started the scoring with a three-run home run in the second inning. Aaron Judge, who knows a thing or 52 about homers, capped the Yankees' end of it with his own three-run job in the fourth.
Spread the news: @Yankees take Game 3.

NYY 8, HOU 1. #ALCS https://t.co/MsmKQof1NJ
If anyone is surprised the ALCS won't be a sweep of a mere wild-card team by a 101-win juggernaut, here's a hint: Don't be.
It's not as if the Astros overpowered the Yankees in the first two games. They won both Games 1 and 2 by ultra-slim 2-1 finals. At home, no less.
To give the victors due credit, the Astros did execute better. But to give some to the vanquished as well, a couple bounces here and there could have resulted in the 2-0 lead landing in the Yankees' hands instead.
Heartbreaking though it may have been, the 2-0 hole that the Bombers fell into was hardly intimidating. An additional silver lining was that they were heading home, where they led the American League with a 51-30 record this season.
Yet another silver lining is that, arguably even more so than ostensible staff aces Luis Severino and Masahiro Tanaka, Sabathia was just the guy to get the comeback started.
"He's been that guy that we've kind of relied on," Yankees manager Joe Girardi said before Game 3, per Rhett Bollinger of MLB.com. "You know that the situation hasn't been too big for him. I look at what the other two guys have done, and they've pitched really well, too. To me, it's CC giving us a good five or six innings and us scoring a few more runs."

It's no secret that the 37-year-old's vintage mid-90s fastball is long gone. However, it's also no secret that he's reinvented himself to render that no big deal.
Sabathia's new trick is working the edges of the strike zone with different speeds and movements. This doesn't make him hard to hit but does make him hard to hit well. Hitters averaged 83.9 miles per hour on batted balls off him in the regular season, which was tied for the lowest exit velocity among starters.
While this is a fine way to silence any offense, it may be the best way to silence a Houston offense that's known for both frequent and powerful contact. Sabathia did well to strike out five batters, but the bulk of his outs came from limiting Astros hitters to a collective average of 81.3 mph on balls in play.
Meanwhile, the Yankees offense performed like an offense that was glad to see pitchers other than former Cy Young winners on the mound.
Dallas Keuchel, the 2015 AL Cy Young winner, and Justin Verlander, the 2011 AL Cy Young winner, pitched all but two innings for the Astros in Games 1 and 2. They looked the part of elite aces, combining to allow just one earned run on nine hits and two walks while striking out 23.
But if the Yankees could hold out any hope in the midst of all that dominance, it's that Keuchel and Verlander couldn't cover up the softer underbelly of Houston's pitching staff forever.
Said underbelly came into focus early in Game 3, wherein Charlie Morton got worked for six hits and two walks before giving way to Will Harris, who was greeted by Judge's long ball.
A few of the Yankees' hits were pretty lucky, granted. But luck didn't have too much to do with Frazier poking an outside fastball over the right field fence, nor with Judge turning on a high-and-tight heater and launching it over the left field fence.

After leading MLB with 241 home runs in the regular season, the Yankees reminded us how the offense rolls, as did the big guy himself.
After blasting 52 homers in the regular season and another in the American League Wild Card Game against the Minnesota Twins, Judge was held to two hits and 19 punchouts in seven games against Cleveland and Houston pitchers, who used a basic hard-in, slow-away approach. His homer off Harris could prove to be the beginning of his adjustment to the adjustment.
Failing Judge putting the entire lineup on his back, the Yankees can always hope that their offense will simply be better than Houston's pitching from here on out. 
This note from MLB.com's Richard Justice highlights that as a fair deal more than just a fool's hope:
Astros 3-4 starters in postseason: 10.2 innings, 19 hits, 12 earned runs, 5 walks, 13 strikeouts, 14.34 ERA.
After dispatching Houston's No. 3 starter in Game 3, the Yankees will now get to take aim at its No. 4 starter in Game 4 on Tuesday.
Going to Keuchel on three days' rest was an option, but Astros manager A.J. Hinch announced that he'll be countering Sonny Gray with Lance McCullers. He has great stuff but doesn't always know where he's going with it and thus not liable to last long.
It adds up to an excellent opportunity for the Yankees to tie the series and go from there. And while Keuchel, Verlander and additional exposure to Houston's offense do loom on the road ahead, the Yankees have every right to feel confident in their own starters (including Sabathia in a potential Game 7) and their flame-throwing bullpen and their high-powered offense.
It's only appropriate to dust off one of the late Yogi Berra's more famous proclamations: "It ain't over 'til it's over." 
This one ain't. If anything, it's only just begun.
      
Data courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Baseball Savant.




The comeback New York Yankees are at it again.  
After overcoming a 2-0 deficit against the Cleveland Indians in the American League Division Series, the Bronx Bombers earned their first win of the American League Championship Series on Monday with a commanding 8-1 victory over the Houston Astros in Game 3 at Yankee Stadium.
New York still trails the series 2-1 but has momentum on its side thanks to three-run homers from Todd Frazier and Aaron Judge and a shutdown pitching performance from CC Sabathia.
While Frazier and Judge made headlines with their power, the 37-year-old Sabathia turned back the clock by scattering three hits and four walks with five strikeouts in six scoreless innings. The six-time All-Star finished his day by overcoming a Didi Gregorius error and retiring Josh Reddick with two runners on base.
His biggest moment came in the top of the third, which was the half-inning after Frazier's blast and the first time all series New York was firmly in control. The Astros loaded the bases with two walks and a single with two outs, but Sabathia induced a harmless popout from Carlos Correa.
Monday was far from the first time Sabathia picked up his team when it needed a boost:
.@CC_Sabathia is 9-0 with a 1.83 ERA in 12 starts this season following a @Yankees loss (including #postseason). https://t.co/WmzPRzMMbJ
The southpaw was far more effective than his counterpart, who allowed seven runs and six hits in 3.2 innings. Three of the runs charged to Charlie Morton came after he exited, but his failure to escape the fourth before Judge's homer proved costly.
Frazier's homer came in the second inning after two-out singles from Starlin Castro and Aaron Hicks. It wasn't a particularly poor pitch from Morton on the low-and-outside corner, but Frazier punched it the opposite way and watched it carry in the hitter-friendly Yankee Stadium:
.@FlavaFraz21 gets all of New York (and definitely some of New Jersey) on its feet. #ALCS https://t.co/HKMpP3Iq75
The three-run homers were business as usual for New York:
Yankees hit 39 3-run HR during regular season, 5 more than any other team.
The Pinstripes played some small ball as well in the fourth before Judge blew the game wide open. Greg Bird doubled and advanced to third on Aaron Hicks' flyout and scored on Chase Headley's infield single—the first base hit for a Yankees designated hitter all playoffs.
Frazier also scored on a wild pitch from Will Harris right before Judge drilled his long ball into the left field seats, making it 8-0 and ending any realistic comeback hopes for the visitors.
#AllRise – #ALCS edition. https://t.co/EeqaUY5JSo
The one downside for Judge came in the first when he struck out for the 20th time this postseason, which ESPN Stats and Info noted was a record before a World Series. However, he made up for it by flashing the leather with a leaping catch on Yuli Gurriel's long flyball in the fourth and a diving catch on Cameron Maybin's line drive in the fifth. 
That's @TheJudge44's territory. #ALCS https://t.co/IjCkoAsZd0
In theory, the blowout win meant the Yankees should have had the luxury of resting some of their key bullpen pieces with the next two contests coming Tuesday and Wednesday. Adam Warren did his part with scoreless frames in the seventh and eighth, but two walks from Dellin Betances in the ninth made New York manager Joe Girardi turn to Tommy Kahnle and warm up Aroldis Chapman.
Houston pushed a lone run across in the inning with Alex Bregman's bases-loaded walk but had to settle for the moral victory of pushing the bullpen some.
The series continues with Tuesday's Game 4 at Yankee Stadium.
While future starts by the formidable one-two punch of Justin Verlander and Dallas Keuchel loom, the Yankees are just a single home victory away from making this a best-of-three series.


Young @Athletics fan pens heartbreaking letter to team after losing all of his baseball memorabilia in the #NorthBayFires #abc7now https://t.co/5dNDt5PLkY
As Katie Utehs of ABC7 News explained this past Saturday, a young Oakland Athletics fan named Loren recently wrote a letter to the club explaining he had lost all of his baseball memorabilia after his house burned down in the fire in Santa Rosa, California. 
The A's, along with other clubs around the league, are lending a helping hand. 
Team president Dave Kaval took to Twitter on Sunday to announce the club had reached out to Loren's family, and the A's asked fans for help earlier today: 
No doubt. So touching. We are reaching out to family so we can replace their collection. https://t.co/Gwk48heAyR
If you'd like to donate baseball memorabilia to our pal Loren, please send items to the address below and we’ll make sure they get to him. https://t.co/xI3ZwWWfNA
Multiple clubs responded in a heartwarming show of support: 
@Athletics Hey Loren, we got a package with your name on it on the way! #RaysUp https://t.co/krjS5mdiRY
@Athletics Happy to pitch in...We're sending something you're way, Loren!
@Athletics 📬 Just dropped all of this in the mail for you, Loren! 👍 https://t.co/fKmcZf6voC
@Athletics You can let Loren know he’s got a package coming from the Astros!
@Athletics .@Athletics We've got your back, Loren! It's on the way! #RocktheBlue https://t.co/y1EBYZQdhT
@Athletics #Dbacks pack headed your way for Loren! https://t.co/Jkp2fqbawx
@Athletics Baseball is family. We have your back, Loren. The package is on its way! https://t.co/vALO3tiBlM
@Athletics You and your family are part of our baseball family now, Loren! There’s a package on its way! Just be sure to share with your brother 🙂 https://t.co/utbFn3uZhb
[Twitter]



A team that won its first World Series in 108 years last season, a team that hasn't made the Fall Classic since 1988, a team that has won 27 championships and a team that is looking for its first make up the quartet of rosters remaining in the MLB playoffs.
Here's a look at the remaining playoff schedule, alongside picks for the American League Championship Series, the National League Championship Series and the World Series.
                
American League Championship Series
Game 3 (Houston at New York): Monday, October 16 at 8 p.m. ET. on FS1
Game 4 (Houston at New York): Tuesday, October 17 at 5 p.m. ET. on FS1
*Game 5 (Houston at New York): Wednesday, October 18 at 5 p.m. ET. on FS1
*Game 6 (New York at Houston): Friday, October 20 at 8 p.m. ET. on FS1
*Game 7 (New York at Houston): Saturday, October 21 at 8 p.m. ET. on FS1
*If necessary
            
ALCS Prediction
Houston Astros starters Dallas Keuchel and Justin Verlander combined for 16 innings of one-run ball and 23 strikeouts against the Yankees in Games 1 and 2, respectively.
The Yanks might get to the other starters on their pitching staff, but they're slated to face Keuchel and Verlander once more each time should the series stretch to six games.
Unless the Yankees somehow break out against one of the two aces, it's hard seeing the Bronx Bombers defeating either pitcher.
The one distinct advantage the Yankees have over the Astros is the bullpen. New York's is deep and one of the best in baseball, while Houston's finished just 17th in the majors in ERA.
If the Yankees take the next two games and somehow draw even on the nights they face Keuchel and Verlander, then they have the advantage. That being said, New York's starters might have to be near perfect to pull off that feat, and that's asking too much.
The Yankees have had a great and unexpected run this season, but Keuchel and Verlander will finish the Bronx Bombers at the tail end of a six-game series.
Pick: Astros in 6
                
National League Championship Series
Game 3 (Los Angeles at Chicago): Tuesday, October 17 at 9 p.m. ET. on TBS
Game 4 (Los Angeles at Chicago): Wednesday, October 18 at 9 p.m. ET. on TBS
*Game 5 (Los Angeles at Chicago): Thursday, October 19 at 8 p.m. ET. on TBS
*Game 6 (Chicago at Los Angeles): Saturday, October 21 at 4 p.m. ET. on TBS
*Game 7 (Chicago at Los Angeles): Sunday, October 22 at 7:30 p.m. ET. on TBS
*If necessary
                      
NLCS Prediction
The Los Angeles Dodgers jumped out to a 2-0 National League Championship Series lead thanks to a game-winning home run from Justin Turner in the bottom of the ninth inning on Sunday.
L.A. will look to use that momentum as the series shifts toward Chicago for at least two more games (and potentially three).
Expect the Cubs crowd to be raucous in favor of the home side, especially if they jump out to an early lead. That's a decided advantage for home teams in the playoffs provided they have fans who will be loud all game.
Look for Chicago to take Game 3 behind the strong pitching of Kyle Hendricks, who allowed just 17 home runs and pitched to a 3.03 ERA this year.
However, the Dodgers look like they have the advantage in Game 4 when Alex Wood takes the mound. Wood's ability to induce ground balls while striking out nearly a batter per inning has been remarkable, and he's earned a 2.72 ERA along the way in addition to an All-Star appearance.
He'll shut down the Cubs in Game 4, and then look for Clayton Kershaw to close out the series in Game 5. Kershaw has had trouble with the long ball in the playoffs (five in two games), but he's still the best pitcher this decade. In a closeout game, it's hard to bet against him.
Pick: Dodgers in 5
            
World Series
Game 1: Tuesday, October 24 on FOX
Game 2: Wednesday, October 25 on FOX
Game 3: Friday, October 27 on FOX
Game 4: Saturday, October 28 on FOX
*Game 5: Sunday, October 29 on FOX
*Game 6: Tuesday, October 31 on FOX
*Game 7: Wednesday, November 1 on FOX
               
World Series Prediction
The Astros' deep and balanced roster has given opposing pitchers fits all season.
Everyone in their lineup, from batters one through nine, can hit for power. Their top three hitters (Jose Altuve, Carlos Correa and George Springer) were All-Stars, and Altuve might end up being the American League's Most Valuable Player.
Two other regulars (Josh Reddick and Marwin Gonzalez) hit over .300. Yuli Gurriel nearly joined them but fell just short at .299. Eleven players smacked 12 or more home runs.
Overall, they finished first in numerous hitting categories (e.g. batting average and runs) and took second in homers. 
Houston's lineup will suit the Astros well when playing in National League ballparks, as they have numerous options on both sides of the plate in pinch-hitting situations when manager A.J. Hinch decides to take out his pitcher or make a substitution.
That will be the difference in a series against the Dodgers, who have a deeper pitching staff but can't match the Astros in terms of their tremendous ability to hit for power and average.
Pick: Astros in 6



Los Angeles Dodgers third baseman Justin Turner hit a game-ending three-run homer to give his team a 4-1 Game 2 victory over the Chicago Cubs in the National League Championship Series on Sunday.
L.A. is now just two wins away from reaching its first World Series since 1988, when it defeated the heavily favored Oakland Athletics in five games.
Here's a look at the remaining NLCS television schedule, as well as predictions for how the rest of the series will shake out.
                 
National League Championship Series
Game 3 (Los Angeles at Chicago): Tuesday, October 17 at 9 p.m. ET. on TBS
Game 4 (Los Angeles at Chicago): Wednesday, October 18 at 9 p.m. ET. on TBS
*Game 5 (Los Angeles at Chicago): Thursday, October 19 at 8 p.m. ET. on TBS
*Game 6 (Chicago at Los Angeles): Saturday, October 21 at 4 p.m. ET. on TBS
*Game 7 (Chicago at Los Angeles): Sunday, October 22 at 7:30 p.m. ET. on TBS
*If necessary
                  
NLCS Predictions
Cubs Take Game 3
Raise your hand if you remember Kyle Hendricks finished top three in the National League Cy Young voting last year.
Hendricks is one of the more unheralded pitchers in baseball, but all he does is go to the mound and limit the damage on a nightly basis. He didn't give up more than three earned runs in his last 13 regular-season starts this year. On eight of those occasions, the 27-year-old shut out his opponent or allowed just one earned run.

He's also an excellent postseason pitcher, going 2-1 with a 2.60 ERA in nine starts.
The Wrigley Field atmosphere should be electric on Tuesday as the Cubs fans cheer on the hometown team. That, plus the steady pitching of Hendricks, will be enough to give Chicago the victory.
        
Dodgers Fight Back, Win Game 4
Chicago Cubs pitcher Jake Arrieta has been phenomenal in his four full seasons with the club, striking out more than a batter per hitting while registering a 64-29 win-loss record and 2.67 ERA. He's also allowed a microscopic .6 home runs per nine innings.
That being said, Arrieta is fighting through a mini-slump, which may be the result of trying to return to form following a Grade 1 hamstring strain suffered during an early September start against the Pittsburgh Pirates.
He was wild in a four-inning outing against Washington in the playoffs, walking five before leaving the game. Arrieta didn't allow any runs, but in three September starts, he allowed seven earned runs in 10.1 innings, giving up five homers as well.
Now he will face a Dodgers team with a lot of pop (their 221 home runs ranked fourth in baseball this year), and that could be problematic. Look for L.A. to hit a homer or two and take a 3-1 series advantage.
          
Dodgers Win the Pennant in 5
Los Angeles Dodgers starting pitcher Clayton Kershaw has given up five home runs in two postseason games this year, but his bad luck with the home run ball can't continue, right?

This is a pitcher who had a 2.31 ERA in 2017, and that mark is somehow his worst since 2012. He's a seven-time All-Star and three-time NL Cy Young winner. 
Although the postseason hasn't gone as well for Kershaw (4.57 ERA in 20 lifetime appearances), he's still one of the best aces in the game.
In a closeout matchup to go to the World Series, look for Kershaw to throw six or seven strong innings and for the bullpen to shut the door in an exciting, low-scoring victory to clinch L.A.'s first National League pennant since 1988.



While the MLB postseason has been thrilling, the majority of the league is already looking ahead to next season. Between free agency and the trade market, 26 MLB organizations are already examining the moves they could potentially make to ensure they are playing in October come next season.
One player sure to be at the center of trade rumors all postseason and offseason is Miami Marlins slugger Giancarlo Stanton. And the fact that Stanton could potentially be moved makes sense from two different perspectives.
Firstly, Stanton is a superstar and plenty of teams would love to acquire his services. According to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, the San Francisco Giants have shown the most interest in acquiring the slugger, with the St. Louis Cardinals, Philadelphia Phillies and a few other teams showing interest in Stanton over the summer.
One reason the Giants might make sense for Stanton, according to Heyman, is that the team could turn things around and be a contender quicker than a team like the Phillies. It's believed that Stanton doesn't want to be a part of a rebuild.
But Stanton also reportedly is interested in playing for a coastal team, leaving the Los Angeles Dodgers, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox as possibilities as well.
That's the first thing to take into consideration in these rumors. The second angle comes from the fact that the Miami Marlins reportedly want to trim their payroll from the $115 million mark in 2017 down to somewhere closer to the $90 million range in 2018, per Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald.
Stanton, meanwhile, is due $25 million next year and $295 million over the remainder of his contract.
While other players could be on the move as well—Spencer cited others such as Marcell Ozuna, Christian Yelich and Dee Gordon as potential trade chips—Stanton would be the player to move if cutting payroll is the team's primary goal for 2018. Not only would moving him help Miami accomplish that goal, he could also bring back a solid package of prospects for the Marlins.
After all, Stanton is fresh off a season that saw him hit .281 with 59 homers and 132 RBI. He's in the peak of his career, turning 28 in November, and when he's healthy is arguably the best power hitter in baseball. 
So Stanton could very well be on the move. If nothing else, he'll be the center of rumors for the foreseeable future.
On the less high-profile front, the St. Louis Cardinals has something of a logjam in the outfield, with seven players capable of filling out three spots. That could leave Randal Grichuk on the trade block.
According to Jenifer Langosch of MLB.com, "In an effort to reduce roster redundancies, the Cardinals are expected to dangle various outfielders as possible trade pieces while the organization seeks to address other deficiencies."
Langosch described Grichuk's fit with the organization going forward as "tenuous." The outfielder himself even appeared to see the light at the end of the tunnel.
"No. Not necessarily," he said when asked if he saw himself in the Cardinals' plans for next year. "But who knows. Anything is possible. It's going to be a fun offseason. It's going to be an interesting offseason to see what direction the club goes with a lot of guys. I'm excited to see what the future holds."
The 26-year-old had an up-and-down season with the Cardinals in 2017, hitting .238 with 22 homers and 59 RBI in 122 games. As Langosch wrote, he's flashed bursts of major upside but suffered from just as many bouts of inconsistency. 
Given the team's bevy of options in the outfield, it's the latter that very well could make him expendable this offseason.



After two tough defeats in Houston, you might expect there to be some discomfort in the New York Yankees locker room. You would be wrong.
The Yankees found themselves in an 0-2 position against the Cleveland Indians in the American League Division Series and came back to win three straight games against a team that was thought by many to be the best in baseball.
They know what they have to do, and New York has confidence it can do it. The Yankees dropped back-to-back 2-1 games to the Houston Astros at Minute Maid Park, but they believe the hitting can get back on track at Yankee Stadium Tuesday night at 8:08 p.m. ET. FS1 will televise the game.
"Offensively, I'd like to think we can only get better, especially going back to Yankee Stadium, where we play really well," left fielder Brett Gardner said, per Ken Davidoff of the New York Post.
"I know our heads will be held up high," third baseman Todd Frazier said, per Rhett Bollinger of MLB.com. "It's another tough game, losing Game 2. But we have more opportunities now. We're excited to be playing at home. I know our fans are going to be ready to go and be loud. It's going to be a different story at our place."

The Yankees will send CC Sabathia to the mound against Charlie Morton of the Astros. Sabathia was a 14-5 during the regular season with a 3.69 ERA in 148.2 innings of work. Morton was 14-7 this season with a 3.62 earned-run average, and he had a better than 3-1 strikeout-to-walk ratio.
The Yankees are minus-124 favorites (wager $124 to win $100) to win Game 3, according to OddsShark. The Astros are plus-114 underdogs (wager $100 to win $114) to take a 3-0 series lead.
New York will depend on its power bats to get back in the series. The two main sources are Aaron Judge and Gary Sanchez, but those two will have plenty of support back in the Bronx.
Judge hit a rookie-record 52 home runs during the regular season, but the postseason has been a painful struggle. The 25-year-old is hitting .129 with one home run and four RBI, and he has struck out 19 times in 37 plate appearances. Sanchez hammered 33 regular-season home runs, but he is also having a difficult time in the playoffs. He is hitting .176 with two homers and three RBI, and he has fanned 15 times. 
Didi Gregorius is hitting .214, but he has belted three home runs and driven in six runs, while Greg Bird is hitting .250 with three home runs and six RBI.
.@JoseAltuve27. @TeamCJCorrea.

Name a more iconic duo, we’ll wait. #Walkoff https://t.co/L8RTdyKtYg
The Astros are having no problems with their hitting or scoring runs. It starts with Jose Altuve, who has 13 hits in the playoffs and is hitting .565. Three of those hits have been home runs, and he has driven in four runs while scoring seven.
Yuli Gurriel is also punishing opposing pitchers with a .500 average, and other hot hitters for the Astros include Evan Gattis (.400), Carlos Correa (.292, with three HR and nine RBI) and George Springer (.292, with one HR and four runs scored).
If the Yankees are going to get back in the series, Sabathia has to find a way to keep Houston's hot hitters in check.



The Houston Astros and Los Angeles Dodgers put themselves in terrific position entering the scenery changes in the ALCS and NLCS by building 2-0 series leads over the New York Yankees and Chicago Cubs, respectively. 
Houston benefited from terrific starting pitching, while the Dodgers used a lights-out bullpen and walk-off magic from Justin Turner to open up a gap over the Cubs.
By no means is either series over, especially as the Yankees and Cubs use the off day to their advantage and rest up tired bodies for Games 3 through 5 of their respective series. 
      
Game Times and TV Coverage
ALCS 
Game 3: Astros at Yankees, Monday, October 16, 8:08 p.m. ET, Fox Sports 1
Game 4: Astros at Yankees, Tuesday, October 17, 5:08 p.m. ET, Fox Sports 1
Game 5 (if necessary): Astros at Yankees, Wednesday, October 18, 5:08 p.m. ET, Fox Sports 1
Game 6 (if necessary) Yankees at Astros, Friday, October 20, 8:08 p.m. ET, Fox Sports 1
Game 7 (if necessary) Yankees at Astros, Saturday, October 21, 8:08 p.m. ET, Fox Sports 1
NLCS
Game 3: Dodgers at Cubs, Tuesday, October 17, 9:08 p.m. ET, TBS
Game 4: Dodgers at Cubs, Wednesday, October 18. 9:08 p.m. ET, TBS
Game 5 (if necessary): Dodgers at Cubs, Thursday, October 19, 8:08 p.m. ET, TBS
Game 6 (if necessary): Cubs at Dodgers, Saturday, October 21, 4:08 p.m. ET, TBS
Game 7 (if necessary) Cubs at Dodgers, Sunday, October 22, 7:38 p.m. ET, TBS 
         
Picks
ALCS
The Astros flexed their muscle on the mound with Dallas Keuchel and Justin Verlander at Minute Maid Park, but their offense was only able to produce four runs.
The hits Houston was able to get primarily came from the heart of the order. Jose Altuve extended his impressive ALDS into Friday and Saturday with five hits in eight at-bats. Carlos Correa followed Altuve with three hits of his own in the first two games of the series, including a walk-off double in Game 2. 

New York's hits have been more scattered across the order than Houston's, as eight different players recorded a hit in Houston. Aaron Judge also started to put the ball in play following a disastrous strikeout-filled ALDS against the Cleveland Indians. 
But the Yankees are at a disadvantage when it comes to bullpen usage. Chad Green, Tommy Kahnle and David Robertson all pitched two innings in Houston, while Aroldis Chapman was tagged for the game-winning hit in Game 2. Conversely, Houston's bullpen only worked two innings, with Ken Giles recording five outs in Game 1 for a save. 
If CC Sabathia can push into the sixth or seventh inning in Game 3 on Monday, the Yankees will be in much better shape with their arms, but one bad start at home could force Joe Girardi into all-hands-on-deck mode. 
Pick: Astros in 6
     
NLCS 
The Dodgers have all the momentum in the NLCS after winning on Turner's walk-off home run in Game 2. Turner won the game off John Lackey, who was a surprise entrant in the ninth inning with Wade Davis still in the bullpen.
Cubs manager Joe Maddon explained why he counted on Lackey in that situation, per MLB.com's Mark Feinsand: 
Maddon on his decision to use Lackey in the ninth: “I'm just betting on his experience right there as much as anything.”
Based off the length of the starts in Games 1 and 2, Maddon will have plenty more bullpen decisions to make. Jose Quintana only went five innings in Game 1, and Jon Lester didn't make it out of the fifth in Game 2. 
The Dodgers have experienced the same with their starters, but the big difference in the series so far is their bullpen is getting the job done. The Dodgers bullpen has not given up a hit or walked a batter in the first two games of the NLCS. 
It isn't a good sign for the Cubs that two of their seven hits at Dodger Stadium on Saturday and Sunday came off the bats of Quintana and Lester. Luckily for the Cubs, they've hit two home runs, but that's about all they can brag about at the plate. 
On the other hand, the Dodgers have 13 hits, with six of them coming from Turner and Cody Bellinger in the No. 2 and No. 3 spots in the order. Yasiel Puig has also been a vital asset for Dave Roberts' team in the NLCS. Puig was 2-for-4 in Game 1, and he reached base on three walks in Game 2. 

In order to even have a chance against the Dodgers in front of their home crowd, the Cubs have to reverse quite a few trends. It's certainly possible, and a day of rest will do wonders, but change has to start showing in Tuesday's Game 3. 
Pick: Dodgers in 6. 
       
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90.
All statistics obtained from MLB.com. 



Turns out Yasiel Puig—the bat-licking, tongue-wagging, arm-flapping, electricity-generating, sensation-creating, Los Angeles Dodgers-igniting superstar-turned-bust-turned-superstar again—is just like you and me.
"My mom told me, 'You need to listen to people'," Puig told B/R during a recent, quiet conversation at his locker. "They want to help you."
Five years into his MLB career, finally, his ears are wide-open as his mouth and his mind is (mostly) in tune with that of the Dodgers.
When manager Dave Roberts and teammates reach out, Puig (mostly) reaches back.
The results have been stirring, right down to his drawing a leadoff, bottom-of-the-ninth walk before Justin Turner crushed the Chicago Cubs with a walk-off homer to give the Dodgers a 4-1 Game 2 win and a 2-0 advantage as this National League Championship Series heads back to Chicago.
Puig this season remained a citizen in good standing long enough to play in a career-high 152 games. And following the best all-around season of his career (28 homers, 74 RBI, consistent Gold Glove-caliber defense), he is absolutely crushing it in October.
He batted a scorching .455/.538/.727 to help the Dodgers sweep Arizona in the National League Division Series, then added a double, a homer and two more RBI in the first two games against the Cubs in the NLCS. He now has six RBI in six games this postseason after producing just five RBI in 27 postseason games entering this year. In leading the Dodgers into the NLCS, the way in which he battered the Diamondbacks may turn out to be his most lasting mark on this postseason.
He punctuated plate appearances with gyrating legs like something out of a Michael Jackson video and turned a Game 1 triple into an indelible moment the Dodgers can market from here to eternity: After sliding safely headfirst into the bag, he remained on the ground long enough to soak in the deafening Dodger Stadium roar while staring straight ahead into the Dodgers dugout, sticking out his tongue, lizard-like, and shimmying it back and forth.
A photo posted by Bleacher Report (@bleacherreport)
The place went nuts.
"That's the first time I've seen that one," pitcher Ross Stripling told B/R, chuckling. "I'm anxious to find out who taught it to him.
"We were saying, next year's Yasiel Puig bobblehead, it's gotta be one where his head is still and his tongue is the only thing that moves."
Said Dodgers starter Alex Wood: "He's the best. He does some dumb things sometimes, but we love him."
How Puig worked his way from exile back into relevance is a tale that covers most of the past 24 months, a change in managers, ongoing English lessons, a timeout in Triple-A Oklahoma City last summer and an analytics-heavy Dodgers front office that goes beyond numbers to understand the human condition.
Since Puig's debut in 2013, the Dodgers have exercised Herculean doses of patience with him and, even at that, Puig consistently pushed both his teammates and the front office to the brink. Early on, he earned the nickname "Wild Horse."
But by Andrew Friedman's second season as the club's president of baseball operations in 2016, however, he was beginning to understand something essential: Baseball, Friedman told B/R in the spring of 2016, was failing its Cuban players.
Maybe the way to do things, Friedman argued, wasn't to simply bring in players from other countries and assume they would understand the American way, or force them to understand it. No, there had to be a better way. And that way was better, more personalized communication.
That's where the hiring of Roberts, who replaced Don Mattingly, came in. There were many reasons why Roberts was a great match in Los Angeles, his communication skills chief among them. Roberts checks in with each of his players daily, and maybe none of these individual mini-meetings is as important as those with Puig, whose relationship with Mattingly was, according to B/R sources, broken beyond repair.
Maybe Puig saw something in Roberts. Perhaps Roberts, who was hired in 2016 and was named NL Manager of the Year last season, simply arrived at the right time. Whatever the case, the Japanese-born manager has been able to reach the Cuban-born prodigy in a way that others haven't.

What has impressed Roberts most this year, the manager told B/R, is Puig's "understanding that when things don't go perfect, he's holding himself accountable. And he holds himself to a higher standard, and the way he plays the game on a daily basis reflects that."
Not that the Los Angeles education of Yasiel Puig was without its issues in the Roberts era. Effectively, Puig drained the club of most of its extra reservoir of patience by late last summer with nagging hamstring injuries and sluggish performances. Friedman and Co. tried hard to trade him at the deadline last July 31 and, when those attempts failed, they shipped him to Triple-A Oklahoma City last Aug. 4. He was hitting .260 with just seven homers in 81 games at the time.
It was then that the words from Puig's mother—You need to listen to people! They want to help you!—really, finally began to sink in.
"The last couple of seasons, I don't want to listen to nobody," Puig told B/R. "I only wanted to listen to myself.
"This year is a new year. I'm listening more to the coaches. I'm listening to Dave Roberts and guys like Adrian Gonzalez, who are trying to help me. That's the reason I'm having a better year than the last two years."
Being shipped out got his attention.
"Last year, when the team put me in Oklahoma City for a couple of months … I never listened to nobody, but when I go down there and hang out with the players in the minor leagues, the coaches, they helped me a lot," Puig said. "That's the reason I came back and I do my best.
"Bad things happened last year. And I don't want these things to happen again."
The Dodgers did not and could not know how Puig would react, and there was a thought that perhaps he would never see Dodger Stadium again. After their attempts to deal him fizzled last summer, many expected them to push again for a trade over the winter.

It was a wakeup call, Roberts said of Puig's demotion to Oklahoma City. "All the credit goes to him. We optioned him last year, and he made the most of the opportunity, learned from it, grew from it.
"Even from last year when we recalled him, he's been a different person. I think his care for his teammates and doing the right things is a priority now. And it's good to see him getting rewarded with a tremendous season."
Some of Puig's relationships are coming easier, too, as his English continues to get better and better. Through the Dodgers, he started language lessons shortly after he signed with them and worked extensively with a man named Tim Bravo, a teacher in Las Cruces, New Mexico. "He's the best," Puig raved.
He furthered Bravo's lessons and learned more English by watching movies, especially the Transformers and Fast and Furious series. He's nimble enough now to conduct some media interviews in English, which reveals his playful side even more.
His interplay with teammates, whether it's the daily give-and-take with Wood and others or social media moments with Justin Turner, can be highly entertaining. Roberts regularly kids him. Radio broadcaster Charley Steiner is fond of telling Puig he's going to knock the outfielder "into next week," and Puig feigns boxing.
"I'll be ready," Puig joked regarding Steiner's threats. "I need to [bob and weave]."
This is just a joke,because life is fun, and we should enjoy it,until our day https://t.co/2Z4MvX7fbz in Pittsburgh we had our own #puigmoon https://t.co/zjizGXr5pL
Said Roberts: "You know what? He's a very lovable guy. And now his true character and heart are starting to come through. Not only on the field with his play, but with people close to us."
Throughout the organization, the Dodgers are noticing.
"I do think going through some of the adversity he's gone through over the past couple of years has changed his outlook," Dodgers general manager Farhan Zaidi told B/R. "He has an appreciation for getting to play baseball for a living, and on a winning team."
Zaidi senses that Puig has taken pride in how many games he's played this year, and he thinks that during July and August Puig produced some of the "best at-bats of anybody on the team, and we've had some guys put up some good at-bats." Roberts said the same thing last week, noting that Puig's Game 2 at-bats were the best he'd seen, and added after Puig walked three times in Sunday's NLCS Game 2 win over the Cubs that Puig is "as focused as I've ever seen him."
Now, the man who often has displayed a surly side, getting into spats with everyone from opponents to his own teammates, is the center of fun again in Dodger Stadium.
"This year everything is different," Puig said. "I come to the park and have fun with my teammates. This is my best year because it's not just about baseball. I'm talking with teammates, having fun with teammates, and that helps me feel better."
He hasn't just opened up to teammates. Zaidi noted how much time Puig has spent on community events, with kids, and how much the children of the team's coaches love hanging out with him.
I still don’t know why my bats are so slippery 😝😝😝😇 https://t.co/uHVT2d9gke
"There's a certain energy and spirit there," Zaidi said. "What's happened over the last couple of years has impacted the way he goes about his business, and he should be really proud of the results."
In the moment after Game 1 last weekend, he was quite proud of the attention his tongue was getting.
"I don't know why, I feel maybe ice cream in front of me or something like that," he quipped.
Roberts, chuckling, said it was "no surprise. … He's called the Wild Horse for a reason."
Roberts, in fact, has developed such a good relationship with Puig that when his mother comes around, she makes a point to say hello to him, too.
"She tells me, 'You better take care of my son,'" Roberts said. "And I do."
            
Scott Miller covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report. Follow Scott on Twitter and talk baseball.



After checking in on the top shortstops, Bleacher Report's final positional power rankings for the 2017 Major League Baseball season now heads to the final stop on the infield: third base.
This one's a doozy. Third base is perhaps the most star-studded position in MLB these days. It wasn't easy to pick just 25 players from the hot corner, much less rank them.
Here are the ground rules: 
The rankings were a simple judgment call. Baseball Reference's version of wins above replacement (WAR) is useful in this respect, but it will be treated more as a guideline than the word of the baseball gods.
Lastly, this is neither a far-reaching retrospective nor a gaze into the future. Only what happened in 2017 counts.

In the year 2017, it's ill-advised and arguably irresponsible to talk about players in detail without using statistics to contextualize their talents and shortcomings.
So, be warned: There are indeed statistics in these rankings.
Many stats will simply be alluded to via links that go to relevant data at Baseball Reference, FanGraphs, Baseball Savant, Brooks Baseball and Baseball Prospectus. But a few to know are...
                              
Wins Above Replacement (WAR): As a stat that puts a number on a player's hitting, baserunning and fielding contributions, WAR is a good go-to in any circumstance.
On-Base Plus Slugging Plus (OPS+): This takes a player's OPS, adjusts it for league and ballpark factors and puts it on a scale where 100 represents average. It shows how well a hitter performed relative to his peers.
Defensive Runs Saved (DRS): It sounds like a measurement of a player's defensive quality, and that's what it is. It's the main defense component for Baseball Reference's version of WAR. Some play multiple positions, but the DRS listed for them here is that of their primary position.
Launch Angle: This Statcast specialty measures the angle of the ball off a hitter's bat. It provides a snapshot of the shape of a hitter's swing—i.e., whether it's flat and tailored for ground balls and line drives or lofty and tailored for fly balls. The MLB average in 2017 was 11.1 degrees.
Exit Velocity: Another Statcast specialty that measures the speed of the ball off a hitter's bat. As you'd expect, there's a strong correlation between high speeds and hitting success. The MLB average in 2017 was 86.6 miles per hour.
Plate Discipline: Although they'll rarely be mentioned explicitly, Swing% (percentage of swings at all pitches), Z-Swing% (in-zone swing percentage) and O-Swing% (out-of-zone swing percentage) paint a picture of a hitter's approach. These figures are found at FanGraphs.
Pull Percentage (Pull%): Also from FanGraphs, this shows the rate at which hitters pull the ball—to left field for righties and to right field for lefties. Pulling the ball is a double-edged sword: It can make a hitter vulnerable to shifts but is also by far the best avenue to power.

Age: 25
Key Stats: 157 G, 665 PA, .272/.320/.490, 110 OPS+, 26 HR, 4 SB, -14 DRS
WAR: 0.7
        
2017 Player Report
It was for the best that Nicholas Castellanos ended the year playing right field.
Neither the defensive metrics nor the eye test ever rated his third base defense well. Even after adding quickness—he went from sprinting 26.6 feet per second in 2016 to 27.8 feet per second in 2017—he still struggled mightily with routine plays. That's life with clunky hands and a fringe arm.
Castellanos wasn't a natural in right field either, accounting for a minus-seven DRS. He must also get used to his new speed. He was aggressive on the bases, but he killed his value by running into 11 outs. 
Lest anyone think his 2017 was a total loss, he at least remained a dangerous hitter. He loves to swing, but dialing down his launch angle while keeping his exit velocity resulted in an elite rate of hard contact. He put that into collecting 72 extra-base hits, including an American League-high 10 triples.
        
Honorable Mentions: Rafael Devers (BOS), Eduardo Escobar (MIN), Johan Camargo (ATL), Wilmer Flores (NYM)

Age: 28
Key Stats: 135 G, 464 PA, .249/.334/.424, 103 OPS+, 13 HR, 0 SB, -4 DRS
WAR: 1.4
         
2017 Player Report
After having a nice season as a fill-in for Dee Gordon in 2016, Derek Dietrich had a less nice season as a fill-in for Martin Prado in 2017.
He isn't an ideal fit for third base. His smooth actions made him reliable on routine plays, but his limited mobility and arm resulted in little range—at least when compared to the best of the best, anyway.
Dietrich joined the launch angle revolution and improved his discipline. This should have resulted in a significant power spike in theory, but his actual power spike was relatively modest. He just didn't put a charge into the ball, averaging a subpar 90.1 mph on fly balls and line drives.
But while all this might make Dietrich sound bad, he really wasn't. He may not have excelled at anything, but he was passable at everything over a fairly large sample size.

Age: 30
Key Stats: 114 G, 491 PA, .313/.341/.460, 110 OPS+, 12 HR, 24 SB, 0 DRS
WAR: 1.2
2017 Player Report
Eduardo Nunez grabbed headlines with the way his bat took off upon joining the Boston Red Sox in July, but he'd been hot well before then.
He continued a pattern of swinging at everything, potentially leaving plenty of walks on the table. But with a flat swing that's direct to the ball, he kept himself afloat with regular contact that he could spray in any direction.
Nunez's legs were his other value source, but they also came with positives and negatives. He was definitely active, but he ran into five outs just with the Red Sox, at least one of which was truly egregious.
Nunez's defense came with ups and downs, too. He can and did play everywhere, but there were never any guarantees when the ball was hit to him. See Exhibit A: his ultra-low 92.6 success rate on routine plays at third base.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 149 G, 635 PA, .248/.357/.487, 110 OPS+, 30 HR, 6 SB, -13 DRS
WAR: 1.4
2017 Player Report
The easiest and fairest knock against Jake Lamb is that he isn't a good defender.
He did rate as a good one back in 2015, but larger sample sizes over the last two seasons have exposed his defense for what it is. He doesn't have any standout tools and is deliberate with his actions to boot. The result is a third baseman who just doesn't bring much to the hot corner.
So, it's a good thing he can hit.
Lamb has notable weaknesses in his platoon split and inability to beat shifts. Yet he has good power and keeps finding more ways to let it out. In 2017, that meant tightening his approach—which also boosted his BB% to 13.7—and upping his launch angle. Ultimately, 48 percent of his hits went for extra bases.

Age: 33
Key Stats: 147 G, 586 PA, .273/.352/.406, 100 OPS+, 12 HR, 9 SB, -7 DRS
WAR: 1.8
2017 Player Report
Chase Headley is normally a reliable presence at the hot corner, so it's shocking to see him with such a poor DRS.
But that's no accident. The veteran had a tougher time on routine plays this year. And despite playing a step shallower than in 2016, he didn't make much of an impact coming in on the ball. With his sprint speed falling from 26.3 feet per second to 25.7 feet per second, that's the residue of age.
On the plus side, Headley remained steady at the plate.
He can always be counted on for disciplined at-bats, thus the solid 10.2 BB% he worked this year. And while seemingly every other hitter aimed for a higher launch angle, he kept his relatively flat and continued to be a source of line drives. Only 31 percent of them went for extra bases, but all this kept the hits coming.

Age: 34
Key Stats: 130 G, 503 PA, .263/.368/.371, 96 OPS+, 10 HR, 0 SB, 7 DRS
WAR: 2.0
2017 Player Report
Your typical modern hitter is one who works the count until he gets something he can pull in the air. Then he unleashes a mighty swing meant to do just that.
David Freese wasn't that guy in 2017.
He worked pitchers just fine, hence his rock-solid 11.5 BB%. But he went more old-school with his swing, keeping it flat and aiming for contact up the middle of the field. It worked, as his K% plummeted to 23.1 and he hit more balls up the middle than anyone. This led to little power but pretty good consistency.
On defense, Freese was no sure thing on routine plays. But between playing farther back and the fact that he's still spry for a guy his age, he more than saved par by flashing quick actions and covering decent range.

Age: 29
Key Stats: 148 G, 598 PA, .272/.314/.521, 116 OPS+, 38 HR, 0 SB, -8 DRS
WAR: 1.8
2017 Player Report
Mike Moustakas' mantra for 2017 seemed to be "The hell with it."
Thanks to his trouble with shifts, he had been trending toward greater selectivity and better all-fields hitting. Not in 2017. He sought to swing at everything and get back to pulling the ball. He also added loft to his swing that generated a higher launch angle and more fly balls.
The career-high (and Kansas City Royals record) 38 homers Moustakas hit proves all this had the desired effect. The catch is that power became his one and only value source on offense. In the context of 2017, that made him nothing special.
Elsewhere, his defense took a step back. It didn't help that he literally took a step forward and played shallower. That took the emphasis off a strong arm that he does have and put it on quickness that he doesn't.

Age: 24
Key Stats: 114 G, 483 PA, .264/.352/.507, 127 OPS+, 28 HR, 0 SB, -5 DRS
WAR: 2.5
2017 Player Report
Yes, Miguel Sano was a good hitter despite his historic 35.8 K%.
Strikeouts will always be a part of Sano's game, as there are two things he can't fix: the big strike zone and limited plate coverage that come with his massive 6'4" frame. The best he can do is pick his spots and take full advantage of his massive power.
These are things he can handle. He had enough discipline to work an 11.2 BB% and averaged 92.4 mph on his batted balls. Only three hitters did better, and rockets off Sano's bat went in all directions.
And while he wasn't good, he was a better third baseman than you'd expect from a guy his size. He had the right idea in playing deeper and thereby giving himself more chances to show off his excellent arm. To illustrate: this.

Age: 29
Key Stats: 154 G, 650 PA, .249/.323/.450, 107 OPS+, 27 HR, 2 SB, -2 DRS
WAR: 2.5
2017 Player Report
After spending four years as one of MLB's most underrated players, Kyle Seager hit a wall in 2017.
Notably, his problem with shifts became a full-on crisis. He's tried pulling the ball less often as a means to avoid shifts, but this year he hit into more shifts than anyone and was stricken with a .265 average when he did.
Seager's actual approach, however, continued to mostly work. Although he achieved an extreme launch angle that generated plenty of fly balls and good power, he continued to strike a good balance between patience (8.9 BB%) and contact (16.9 K%).
His defense was better than his DRS indicates. His modest arm strength necessitated playing relatively shallow, but he made it work because his reactions and release remained quick. There weren't many plays he couldn't make.

Age: 26
Key Stats: 156 G, 632 PA, .260/.367/.461, 115 OPS+, 26 HR, 4 SB, 5 DRS
WAR: 3.7
2017 Player Report
Eugenio Suarez's breakout season can't be addressed without pointing out the elephant in the room.
He finished the year with a .978 OPS and 21 homers at home and just a .694 OPS and five homers elsewhere. With only 86.2 mph exit velocity, he truly needed Great American Ball Park's dimensions to boost his power.
But to give credit where it's due, Suarez did get more selective and pull more balls while keeping his launch angle high. That's a power-oriented approach. So, he did have some influence in his breakout.
Suarez's drastic improvement just in making routine plays underscores how much more comfortable he was in his second season at third base. The former shortstop already had the athleticism and actions for the hot corner. What he gained was a feel for the different angles and timing inherent in the position.

Age: 24
Key Stats: 84 G, 326 PA, .234/.313/.472, 110 OPS+, 14 HR, 0 SB, 19 DRS
WAR: 3.6
2017 Player Report
If not for his sample size, Matt Chapman would have a case as the best third baseman of 2017.
His defense alone was worth the price of admission. He has more than enough arm to justify playing as deep as he did, but he wasn't using his deep positioning to hide a lack of range. The quickness that made him one of the fastest third basemen allowed for a steady string of athletic plays—such as this one.
At the plate, Chapman worked off a disciplined approach and showed off a truly modern swing. He generated a 19.9 degree launch angle and 90.1 mph exit velocity. So, his defense came with good patience (9.8 BB%) and good power.
Maybe the only gripe is that too much of Chapman's batted balls went to waste, as he preferred an all-fields approach that he didn't have the opposite-field pop to justify. But that's a very nitty nit-pick.

Age: 38
Key Stats: 94 G, 389 PA, .312/.383/.532, 135 OPS+, 17 HR, 1 SB, 6 DRS
WAR: 3.7
2017 Player Report
Adrian Beltre had a tough time staying healthy in 2017. But otherwise, he remained Adrian Beltre.
His hitting has long centered around his ability to make good contact with anything, no matter whether he's hitting off two feet or one knee. That ability kept refusing to age in 2017, as he made frequent contact both inside and outside the strike zone and produced well-hit balls in all directions.
The only wrinkle Beltre added in 2017 was better discipline. Not much, but enough to boost his BB% to a solid 10.0.
He also refused to age on defense. Although he's now one of the slowest third basemen in MLB, he still plays shallow anyway. He's quick on his feet despite his slow speed, and he can snap off strong, accurate throws from any angle.

Age: 28
Key Stats: 125 G, 481 PA, .272/.341/.472, 112 OPS+, 20 HR, 6 SB, 16 DRS
WAR: 3.6
2017 Player Report
So much for Jedd Gyorko's 2016 breakout being a one-off.
Although he didn't make it to 30 homers again, he was largely the same hitter in 2017. He kept the same approach and continued to employ a swing designed to get under the ball. And while he did pull the ball less often, he had enough juice to hit for power to the right of center.
The huge number in Gyorko's DRS column does raise a suspicious eyebrow, but his defense must not be downplayed. While his relatively weak arm requires him to play shallow, he has the hands and the quick reactions to make that work. If nothing else, he was money on routine plays this season.
That quickness doesn't translate to the basepaths, where Gyorko was one of the slowest third basemen of 2017. But he did find a nice balance between knowing his limits and taking what chances (e.g. 6-for-8 stealing bases) he could.

Age: 23
Key Stats: 145 G, 532 PA, .209/.333/.537, 121 OPS+, 41 HR, 7 SB, -4 DRS
WAR: 3.2
2017 Player Report
Don't be like Joey Gallo, kids. Only Joey Gallo can be like Joey Gallo.
He's a 6'5" behemoth with a whole lot of power, and he aims to take advantage of all of it with an uppercut swing that produced an MLB-high 22.7-degree launch angle this year. In the end, a staggering 66 percent of his hits went for extra bases.
On the downside, he also made contact less often than any qualified hitter and finished with a 36.8 K%. The only consolation is how he got more comfortable in the second half, chasing fewer pitches and lowering his K% to 34.9 while raising his BB% to 14.9. Nonetheless, whiffs will always be a problem for him.
Elsewhere, Gallo was one of 2017's faster third basemen, and one of the better baserunners to boot. He was also a passable defender despite his ultra-low success rate on routine plays, using his long reach and rocket arm to make some nifty plays.

Age: 31
Key Stats: 147 G, 576 PA, .213/.344/.428, 105 OPS+, 27 HR, 4 SB, 10 DRS
WAR: 3.4
2017 Player Report
Todd Frazier remains a frustratingly hit-or-miss player. Yet, he's doing what he must to stay mostly good.
He reaped the usual power rewards of his extreme launch angle and pull rate in 2017, but also continued to reverse course from an approach that had gotten way too wild. He thus added patience (14.4 BB%) to go with his power.
Frazier also confronted reality on the other side of the ball, moving farther away from the plate and tailoring his defense around his internal clock and arm strength. He wasn't a lock on routine plays, but he had enough range in every direction to make up for it.
On the not-so-bright side, Frazier also toned it down on the basepaths. He snapped a string of three straight years with double-digit steals and was generally a station-to-station runner.

Age: 31
Key Stats: 156 G, 677 PA, .261/.313/.424, 100 OPS+, 20 HR, 6 SB, 11 DRS
WAR: 3.6
2017 Player Report
Evan Longoria enjoyed a power-hitting renaissance in 2016, slugging .521 with a career-high 36 homers.
Alas, the renaissance didn't continue into 2017. The sore left foot he played through is the prime suspect for this, as an aching hitting base is a good explanation for how he could lose four miles per hour off his average exit velocity.
To give credit where it's due, Longoria didn't try to force power. He flattened his swing and put the ball in play more consistently. His activity on the basepaths also helped mitigate some of his lost power.
Meanwhile, his aching foot didn't hurt his defense. He continued to play deep, making his defense less about quick actions and more about his strong arm. That works because his hands ensure he doesn't miss what he gets to, and there isn't a throw he can't make.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 144 G, 606 PA, .273/.349/.513, 122 OPS+, 31 HR, 10 SB, 3 DRS
WAR: 4.0
2017 Player Report
It didn't take long for the Boston Red Sox's trade of Travis Shaw to go from puzzling to disastrous.
Simply getting the opportunity to play every day without having to look over his shoulder made a difference. It showed in his sharpened approach. He otherwise didn't need to change much, as a swing that could do damage via both launch angle and exit velocity was already in place.
The catch is that Shaw ran out of gas down the stretch. He didn't help matters by pressing, as the approach he'd sharpened got noticeably more wild toward the end.
Still, that didn't wreck his breakout year. He also deserves credit for baserunning that produced a 10-for-10 showing in steals and excellent all-around value. And while DRS overrates his defense, he at least knew to play deep enough to downplay his fringy athletic tools.

Age: 23
Key Stats: 155 G, 626 PA, .284/.352/.475, 128 OPS+, 19 HR, 17 SB, -3 DRS
WAR: 4.1
2017 Player Report
The metrics mostly haven't been impressed with Alex Bregman's defense at third base. That's related to how he shouldn't even be playing there.
He's a shortstop by trade and it shows. His quality isn't in flagging down hot smashes and coming in on topped ground balls, but more so in ranging laterally and generally being sure-handed. These qualities play better at shortstop than third base.
On the bright side, Bregman did build on his strong offensive breakthrough from his rookie season.
He works off an excellent approach and pulls off the tough task of being short to the ball while also having some loft in his swing. He worked an 8.8 BB%, a 15.5 K% and 16.1 degree launch angle that fed into solid power. Throw in his baserunning, and he had a well-rounded sophomore season.

Age: 25
Key Stats: 156 G, 690 PA, .259/.310/.471, 107 OPS+, 33 HR, 9 SB, 6 DRS
WAR: 3.5
2017 Player Report
It might seem like Manny Machado needed a hot second half to salvage his season, but...nah.
With one of the largest gaps between his expected and actual production, he was one of the least lucky hitters of the first half. He wasn't quite on point, but he was hitting enough rockets to deserve better.
His numbers eventually did get big, and there's no question that he earned it. With a 16.7 K% and a swing that produced 90.9 mph in exit velocity and hard contact a career-high 40 percent of the time, Machado often put the ball in play and often did damage when doing so.
On the downside, he's likely past his defensive prime. But as long as he continues to play deep and continues to display soft hands and a rocket arm, he'll continue being both a reliable and flashy defender. It's hard to ask for more than that.

Age: 31
Key Stats: 113 G, 496 PA, .270/.385/.559, 144 OPS+, 33 HR, 1 SB, 3 DRS
WAR: 4.8
2017 Player Report
Josh Donaldson lost a good chunk of 2017 to a calf injury. And while he eventually recovered to post a strong offensive season, his defense took a hit and stayed hit.
When he was at his defensive peak, he played deep and let his energy, athleticism and arm strength guide him. But in 2017, he played even shallower and was largely restricted to making lower-difficulty plays. He wasn't bad by any stretch, but he was certainly diminished.
On the plus side, there is the aforementioned fact that Donaldson's bat continued to thrive.
He was extremely picky with his swings and drew a career-high 15.3 BB%, but he also kept what's made him dangerous over the years: an uppercut swing that gets under the ball and produces good exit velocity. He especially had everything working in his final 56 games, finishing with a 1.103 OPS and 24 homers.

Age: 32
Key Stats: 130 G, 543 PA, .322/.415/.530, 149 OPS+, 21 HR, 7 SB, 6 DRS
WAR: 5.7
2017 Player Report
This isn't much of a secret by now, but Justin Turner is really into the Fly Ball Revolution.
"You can't slug by hitting balls on the ground," he told Dave Sheinin of the Washington Post. "You have to get the ball in the air if you want to slug, and guys who slug stick around, and guys who don't, don't."
Thus, Turner's launch angle keeps getting higher and his ground-ball rate keeps getting lower. But unlike many modern hitters, Turner doesn't let his search for power take away from his consistency. He's selective with his swings and capable of working walks (10.9 BB%) but also puts the ball in play (10.3 K%).
The fact that he's also a capable defender mainly stems from how he locks down on routine plays. That's his reward for marrying his fringy tools to extremely shallow positioning, with the only downside being roughly average range.

Age: 25
Key Stats: 151 G, 665 PA, .295/.409/.537, 143 OPS+, 29 HR, 7 SB, 1 DRS
WAR: 6.1
2017 Player Report
Kris Bryant spoke in 2016 about wanting to flatten his swing as a means to gain more consistency. This was the year he actually did it.
He got his launch angle down from 20.9 degrees to 17.0 degrees. This plus better discipline helped drive his strikeout rate below the MLB average at 19.2. Less power was the trade-off, sure, but 6'5" monster men like Bryant can only lose so much power no matter what they do.
Not to be overlooked is how he also remained one of the fastest third basemen in the business with an average sprint of 28.2 feet-per-second. He mainly funneled his speed into aggressive running on hits.
On defense, whether third base is even Bryant's best position and whether he should play it so shallow are good questions. But thanks to his athleticism and strong arm, he does enough at the hot corner to downplay such questions.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 147 G, 605 PA, .301/.403/.533, 140 OPS+, 25 HR, 7 SB, 7 DRS
WAR: 5.9
2017 Player Report
There's a clear rule of thumb developing with Anthony Rendon: When he's healthy, he's really good.
He's always been an interesting hitter and became a downright great hitter in 2017. The changes he made were subtle, but he produced a more disciplined approach, even more contact and a higher launch angle that unlocked his power. 
To further push the envelope, Rendon mixed in his usual solid work on the basepaths and excellent defense at third base.
Although he doesn't get the attention of a Nolan Arenado or a Manny Machado, Rendon's fielding is legit. He has keen instincts for the right way to play every ball—especially ones he has to come in on—and he finishes plays off with athletic movements, quick hands and a good (if not quite great) arm.

Age: 25
Key Stats: 152 G, 645 PA, .318/.374/.583, 145 OPS+, 29 HR, 17 SB, 0 DRS
WAR: 6.9
2017 Player Report
Jose Ramirez has gone from being a modestly talented utility infielder to one of the best hitters in baseball.
He's a selective hitter who was also one of the best contact hitters in MLB despite having a powerful swing good for both launch angle and exit velocity. Such frequent contact combined with such good contact resulted in 91 extra-base hits, tying Giancarlo Stanton for the MLB lead.
To these extents, Ramirez fit the offensive profile that's expected of third basemen. He further sweetened the deal by running fast and, albeit with 12 outs run into, wreaking havoc on the bases.
On defense, Ramirez's value is more so in his ability to play multiple positions well rather than one position really well. But with a relatively shallow starting position, he lets his athleticism carry him when he plays third and it mostly works.

Age: 26
Key Stats: 159 G, 680 PA, .309/.373/.586, 132 OPS+, 37 HR, 3 SB, 20 DRS
WAR: 7.2
2017 Player Report
There is one criticism to make of Nolan Arenado: Without great speed, he can't do much on the basepaths.
But that's it.
Not that he needed to prove anything, but 2017 was the year that Arenado's hitting basically became above reproach. He already had a knack for putting the ball in play with power. This season saw him maintain the extra discipline he'd added in 2016 while relying less on his pull side and more on the whole field.
Abilities like these play anywhere. So as easy as it is to chalk his success up to Coors Field and move on, the career-best .886 OPS he posted on the road must not be overlooked.
Arenado also remained elite at the hot corner. His hands and arm are as good as any at the position, but what sets him apart is just how quick he is. Throw in how he maintains a good enough head to keep from getting reckless, and he pulls off the tough task of having a ton of range without being error-prone.
In short: He's good. Heck, he's the best.



The Houston Astros held serve at home by winning the first two games of the American League Championship Series against the New York Yankees, but the playoff will now shift to New York in front of a crowd that has been raucous throughout the entire postseason.
Game 3 should be an interesting matchup, and it will take place Monday at 8 p.m. ET, with FS1 televising the contest.
Here's a look at a couple predictions, including a winner and score pick.
         
Starlin Castro and Todd Frazier Smack Key Hits off Charlie Morton
Houston Astros starting pitcher Charlie Morton enjoyed one of his best seasons on the professional level this year, winning 14 games, earning a 3.62 ERA and striking out 163 batters in 146.2 innings.
However, he hasn't found much success against the Yankees. In particular, two Bronx Bombers' stat lines against the 33-year-old stand out.
Second baseman Starlin Castro has hit .400 in 30 lifetime at-bats against Morton, smacking three home runs as well. Third baseman Todd Frazier has an astronomical 1.365 OPS against Morton in 18 at-bats, registering two dingers, a triple and two doubles.

Morton is a reverse-splits pitcher who has done better against lefties (.561 OPS) than righties (.805 OPS) this season. Therefore, the table is set for Castro and Frazier (both righties) to have productive at-bats against the Astros right-hander.
        
Astros Bullpen Struggles in the Late Innings
For the season, Morton has averaged just under six innings per start, and he's hit seven full frames just five times. It's unlikely he'll go deep in this game a la Dallas Keuchel and Justin Verlander in Games 1 and 2, who went seven and nine strong innings, respectively.
Therefore, we may see the Houston bullpen earlier than usual in Game 3. The Astros' pen has been inconsistent this year, as it finished in the bottom half of the league in ERA. Houston's relievers have struggled a bit in this year's postseason as well with a 5.40 ERA.
The guess here is that the Yankees knock Morton out of the game in the middle frames and get a few insurance runs in the latter half of the contest.
          
Score (and Series) Prediction
Look for the Yankees to hold serve in Game 3 to cut the ALCS deficit in half behind some timely hits, a strong start from CC Sabathia and some shutout innings from the bullpen.

Morton won't get blown up, but the deck is stacked against him in this contest. Take the Yankees by a 6-3 score.
As far as the rest of the series goes, New York will have to face Keuchel and Verlander once each if it is to extend the series to a sixth game.
Keuchel in particular is a matchup nightmare for the Yankees, as he induces a ton of soft contact and ground balls since he is a master at keeping the ball down in the zone. New York has a ton of free-swingers looking to hit the long ball, so that isn't a good mix with the 2015 AL Cy Young winner on the mound.
Ultimately, it's hard seeing this series going past six games given the prowess of the two Houston aces. The Yankees will tie the series at two, but the Astros will respond with two more victories of their own to return to the World Series for the first time since 2005.



After winning consecutive games by 2-1 scores, the Houston Astros will look to take a commanding 3-0 lead in the American League Championship Series against the New York Yankees as the playoff shifts to the Bronx.
Charlie Morton will take the mound for Houston, while CC Sabathia will do the same for New York.
The matchup will take place on Monday night at 8 p.m. ET. on FS1, with the pregame show starting at 7 p.m. ET. Joe Buck will provide play-by-play alongside the color commentary of Hall of Fame pitcher John Smoltz.
MLB.TV subscribers can stream the matchup online, and fans can also watch through Fox Sports Go. Furthermore, anyone can tune into all postseason contests through ESPN Radio (as well as their local carriers for games).
If you want to catch the game live, tickets are still available for purchase through StubHub. Per OddsShark, the Yankees are -124 favorites, and the over/under total is set at 8.5 runs.
Here's a look at the four notable questions leading up to Game 3.
            
Will Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa Keep Their Hot Streaks Alive?
The Astros' middle infielders have done the vast majority of the damage against the Yankees through the first two games. Second baseman Jose Altuve is 5-for-8 with a key stolen base and two runs, while shortstop Carlos Correa is 3-for-7 with a home run, a double, two runs and two RBI.
They form a dynamic one-two punch on defense and offense, as they hold the third and fourth spots in the lineup, respectively.
It's pretty simple: Unless the Yankees can find a way to keep Altuve and Correa off the base paths, then this will be a short series.
         
How Will the Yankees' Right-Handers Fare Against Charlie Morton?
The Yankees' right-handed batters have a couple of splits advantages against Morton on Monday night. First, he has allowed an .805 OPS against righties, compared to a .561 mark against lefties.
Secondly, Morton does a little worse away from home (as many pitchers do), as he has a .247 batting average against and 4.17 ERA away from Minute Maid Park (compared to .217 and 3.34 in Houston).
A couple of Yankees right-handers have done well against Morton during their careers: Second baseman Starlin Castro has a .400 batting average, third baseman Todd Frazier sports a 1.365 OPS and designated hitter Matt Holliday has mashed a couple dingers.
In the hitter-friendly park that is Yankee Stadium, the New York bats have an opportunity to wake up against the Astros starter.
         
Can New York Get to the Astros Bullpen Early?
Houston's bullpen may be the team's weakness. For the playoffs, the Astros' relievers have managed just a 5.40 ERA. In the regular season, they pitched to a 4.27 mark, which ranked just 17th out of 30 MLB clubs.
If the Yankees get to the bullpen in the middle innings, then they have an advantage in the latter half of the game. New York's relievers are some of the best in the business, as they've earned a 3.34 ERA this year (good enough for third in the majors). That number has dipped to a microscopic 2.06 mark in the postseason.
Ultimately, the Yankees will strive to make this a bullpen game, taking a litany of pitches in an attempt to tire out the opposing starter. If they can do that for Game 3, then they have the edge.



The 2017 MLB campaign will be remembered for home runs, and for good reason. Hitters across both leagues broke the record for most dingers in a season.
It was also a big year for pitching velocity, though. Among pitchers who threw at least 50 innings, 18 averaged 97 mph or faster with their fastball, according to Pitchf/x data compiled at FanGraphs. Only 11 pitchers achieved that feat in 2016. Seven did it in 2015. In 2014, it was an exclusive club of two.
You're sensing the trend. Even as big league hitters are taking aim at the bleachers with increasing frequency, big league hurlers are countering with zippier pitches. 
Where 100 mph fastballs used to be a novelty, they're now an indelible part of the game. To quote the late Howard Hughes, it's the "way of the future."
Speaking of the future, who will break out as MLB's next wave of triple-digit flamethrowers?
Let's take a look, narrowing our search to top prospects (per MLB.com's list) whose rookie status is still intact but who are close(ish) to making a triple-digit splash in The Show.
MLB.com Prospect Rank: No. 93
Cuban right-hander Michel Baez is just 21 years old and hasn't pitched above Single-A. At that level, however, he struck out 82 in 58.2 innings while posting a 2.45 ERA and throwing consistently in the high 90s.
Those numbers coupled with his big arm could send him rocketing through the rebuilding San Diego Padres' system.
Once he hits the big leagues, the 6'8", 220-pounder profiles as either a mid-rotation starter or a bat-missing, late-inning reliever.
MLB.com Prospect Rank: No. 90
The first of three Chicago White Sox prospects we'll meet on this list, Alec Hansen struck out 191 hitters in 141.1 innings in 2017 and rose as high as Double-A.
His fastball tickled 99, and the 23-year-old's 6'7" frame suggests room to add even a tick more. 
Further refinement in his command and mechanics will help Hansen stand out in a loaded White Sox system and put him on track to join what should be a formidable young pitching staff on the South Side.
MLB.com Prospect Rank: No. 82
The concern with left-hander Luiz Gohara has never been his stuff but rather his physique.
The 21-year-old shed pounds and added velocity in 2017 as his fastball ticked into the high 90s. Still just 21 years old, the Brazilian southpaw ascended to Triple-A and posted a 2.62 ERA with 147 strikeouts in 123.2 innings across three levels overall.
If he can maintain his newfound commitment to conditioning, his fastball could gain even more zip, and he might soon be throwing it at SunTrust Park.
MLB.com Prospect Rank: No. 57
Acquired by the White Sox as part of the deal that sent Jose Quintana to the Chicago Cubs, right-hander Dyan Cease racked up 126 strikeouts in 93.1 innings at Single-A while hitting 100 mph with his eye-popping fastball.
The 21-year-old was shut down in early September because of shoulder fatigue and will have to prove his stamina next season.
No one, however, doubts the sheer potency of his heater. 

MLB.com Prospect Rank: No. 54
The fourth overall pick by the Colorado Rockies in the 2016 amateur draft, Riley Pint struggled with his command in 2017, posting a 5.42 ERA and walking 59 in 93 innings at Single-A.
Clearly, there's work to be done before the 19-year-old is a factor at Coors Field, though he did improve as the season wore on.
"He's really done a lot of work with his delivery," Single-A Asheville pitching coach Ryan Kibler said in late July, per Baseball America's Josh Norris. "He's really tightened up his delivery."
Pint has a solid foundation to build on, including a fastball that has been recorded as high as 102 mph. Control and consistency can be taught. That kind of cheddar cannot.

MLB.com Prospect Rank: No. 45
The Los Angeles Dodgers handed a $16 million bonus to Yadier Alvarez in 2015. The team believes the lanky Cuban has the makings of a frontline starter.
He flashed results in 2017, striking out 97 in 92.1 innings between High-A and Double-A. He also walked 50, meaning there are command kinks to be worked out.
His fastball is breaking the triple-digit barrier, however, and he's got room to add muscle and mph.
His Dodgers debut may not come until 2019. In the meantime, he's a talent for Southern California fans to dream on.

MLB.com Prospect Rank: No. 17
The No. 2 overall pick by the Cincinnati Reds in 2017, Hunter Greene could crack the big leagues as either a pitcher or position player.
It appears the Reds see his future on the mound, and while he's logged only a few token pro innings in rookie ball, the 18-year-old will be on the big league fast track.
As Bleacher Report's Joon Lee detailed in an extensive July profile, Greene is already something of a legend and was hitting 100 mph consistently in high school.
Toronto Blue Jays right-hander Marcus Stroman told Lee he thinks Greene can be a powerful role model for aspiring African-American ballplayers.
"He's so vital because those kids are going to be picking up those magazines and saying, 'Who's this?'" Stroman said. "A black baseball player? A pitcher? Who is throwing 102?"

MLB.com Prospect Ranking: No. 14
Alex Reyes would have burned through his rookie status last season—and lit up his share of radar guns—but Tommy John surgery in February derailed those plans.
The 23-year-old's recovery is progressing without any significant bumps, per Jenifer Langosch of MLB.com.
Assuming he returns with the same stuff he showed before the injury, he should find a spot in the St. Louis Cardinals rotation or bullpen. 
In his limited big league action, Reyes has averaged 97.3 mph with his fastball and hit 100-plus on multiple occasions.

MLB.com Prospect Ranking: No. 10
Walker Buehler had Tommy John surgery shortly after the Dodgers drafted him in 2015. Less than a year later, the Vanderbilt alum returned to action and flashed the tools that gave Los Angeles faith.
Buehler logged 88.2 minor league innings in 2017 and got a taste of the big leagues, making eight relief appearances with the Dodgers.
His fastball sits in mid-to-high 90s, and he can jump up to 100 mph. Add a plus curveball, slider and an emerging changeup, and you've got the ingredients for a top-of-the-rotation arm.

MLB.com Prospect Ranking: No. 9
You've probably heard the legend of Michael Kopech and his 107 mph pitch. If not, read this entertaining piece by Bleacher Report's Scott Miller. 
Kopech won't be throwing that fast with any consistency—or probably at all—when he reaches the big leagues.
The game's top-ranked pitching prospect has incredible life in his right arm, however, and he showed it by striking out 172 hitters in 134.1 innings between Double-A and Triple-A.
Still just 21 years old, Kopech seems like a lock to make his debut with the White Sox next season. When he does, radar guns will be cocked around the yard. 
   
All statistics courtesy of FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.



The Los Angeles Dodgers are in control of the National League Championship Series against the Chicago Cubs after Justin Turner played hero in Sunday's 4-1 Game 2 win at Dodger Stadium.  
Turner drilled a walk-off three-run homer in the bottom of the ninth inning off starter-working-in-relief John Lackey, all while Chicago manager Joe Maddon allowed All-Star closer Wade Davis to watch from the bullpen.
We don’t believe what we just saw! #NLCS https://t.co/sJkKJhk3WU
Turner also drove in the Dodgers' other run in the fifth inning when they were trailing 1-0 and gave his team a commanding 2-0 series lead.
ESPN Stats and Info pointed out Turner's blast came on the 29th anniversary of the most famous home run in Dodger history:
Justin Turner's HR was to straightaway center.

Kirk Gibson's was to right field ... remember he was pinch-hitting, playing hurt https://t.co/1NUGrsXtHO
With shortstop Corey Seager off the NLCS roster because of injury, someone in the Dodgers lineup had to carry the load. Turner did so in dramatic fashion after the bats of both teams were silenced throughout the majority of the contest.
While neither starting pitcher factored into the decision, both were impressive in the early going.
Jon Lester—who won co-MVP in last year's NLCS against the Dodgers by allowing two earned runs in 13 innings—gave up a run and three hits in 4.2 innings while working on short rest. His only issue was five walks, which drove his pitch count to 103 and led to his exit in the fifth.
Anthony DiComo of MLB.com noted he moved up in the history books:
Jon Lester just passed Whitey Ford for sixth on the all-time playoff innings list. His 2.52 ERA is better than anyone above him on the list.
Rich Hill didn't match his counterpart's history but allowed just a solo homer to Addison Russell and scattered three hits with eight strikeouts and one walk in five innings. It was a similar performance to his NLCS outing last year when he threw six scoreless innings in a Game 3 victory.
The former Cub gave his team an opportunity to win in a bullpen-oriented game, which is exactly what the Dodgers were looking for given the postseason discrepancy between Chicago's starters and bullpen entering play Sunday:
Cubs ERA this postseason
Starters     1.99
Bullpen      7.08 https://t.co/R3ETzVorPi
The starters escaped jams in the third, as Hill retired Jon Jay and Kris Bryant with Javier Baez on third, and Lester induced an Enrique Hernandez flyout with runners on second and third. However, the fifth ended their days thanks to Russell's leadoff homer and Turner's RBI single three batters after a Charlie Culberson double.
That the Dodgers won off Chicago's bullpen isn't much of a surprise considering the unit's struggles throughout the playoffs, but it wasn't a normal relief pitcher who allowed the decisive drive.
Carl Edwards Jr. struck out Chase Utley with two runners on to end the fifth and pitched a scoreless sixth, Pedro Strop notched a scoreless seventh, and Brian Duensing escaped a jam in the eighth by getting Austin Barnes to ground into a double play.
It was a notable performance from the group until Duensing walked Yasiel Puig in the ninth and handed the ball to Lackey after tallying the first two outs of the inning. Chicago's fifth starter—who pitched in relief in Saturday's Game 1 as well—proceeded to walk Chris Taylor and give up the game-winner to Turner.
Los Angeles received two shutout innings from Brandon Morrow, a scoreless eighth from the Josh Fields and Tony Watson, and the typical dominance in the ninth from Kenley Jansen.
Attention and the series now shifts to Wrigley Field in Chicago for Games 3 through 5 (barring a Dodgers sweep), with Game 3 scheduled for Tuesday.
Yu Darvish will take the ball for the Dodgers, while Kyle Hendricks will counter with Chicago's World Series defense hanging in the balance. The Cubs won two of three games in Wrigley in last year's NLCS against the Dodgers and will need to do at least that well again this year to send the series back to Los Angeles.



The sheriff's office in Humphreys County, Tennessee, confirmed former Chicago White Sox pitcher Daniel Webb died Saturday night in an ATV accident, according to the Associated Press (via WPSD in Paducah, Kentucky).
The White Sox provided a statement about Webb's death:
White Sox statement: https://t.co/rgnRKOLaLE
The AP reported authorities confirmed Webb suffered head trauma in what was described as a "tragic accident." Webb's wife and two others were injured.
Webb appeared in 94 games over four years with the White Sox. He posted a 4.50 ERA and a 4.46 FIP, according to Baseball Reference.
Webb underwent Tommy John surgery in June 2016, and the White Sox released him in November.



Chicago Cubs manager Joe Maddon said he spoke with Joe Torre, MLB's chief baseball officer, and will meet with Torre to discuss the slide rule at home plate following the Cubs' Game 1 defeat to the Los Angeles Dodgers in the National League Championship Series.
"We talked on the phone. We just have to sit down face-to-face about what I said last night," Maddon said, per ESPN.com's Jesse Rogers. "The only thing I'll say about yesterday is it was a tremendous baseball play on our part."
Maddon was ejected in the bottom of the seventh after a replay review led to Charlie Culberson scoring the Dodgers' fifth run. Cubs catcher Willson Contreras tagged Culberson out, but officials determined Contreras blocked home plate.
The play comes at the 2:02 mark of the video below:
MLB announced the addition of rule 7.13 in February 2014. According to the rule, runners are prohibited from taking a path away from home plate that would cause them to run into the catcher. Also, catchers must provide the runner with a clear path to home plate unless they have the ball.
The regulation is called the "Posey Rule" after San Francisco Giants catcher Buster Posey suffered a season-ending injury during a collision at the plate in 2011.
Maddon told reporters he disagrees with the rule but understood the umpires' decision.
"I could not disagree more with the interpretation of that," he said, per USA Today's Gabe Lacques. "However, I will defend the umpires. The umpires did everything according to what they've been told, but I, from day one, have totally disagreed with the content of that rule."
Maddon also argued MLB created the rule largely because of Posey's status—he was the National League Rookie of the Year in 2010. He said rule 7.13 wouldn't be part of the game if Posey had been "a third-string catcher for the Atlanta Braves," according to the Los Angeles Times' Bill Shaikin.



Houston Astros starter Dallas Keuchel struck out 10 batters en route to a 2-1 victory over the New York Yankees in Game 1 of the ALCS on Friday.
Justin Verlander took the mound for Game 2 and proceeded to pitch a complete game and earn a win, fanning 13 Yankees along the way. The duo combined to mark the first time in MLB history that a pair of teammates have begun a playoff series with victories in which they struck out at least 10 batters, per Elias Sports Bureau (h/t ESPN.com).
Both pitchers have been dominant during the 2017 postseason. Keuchel, who went 14-5 with a 2.90 ERA and 1.119 WHIP during the regular season, has allowed just one earned run over 12.2 innings in the playoffs. Over those frames, he's struck out 17 batters and walked only four.
The Detroit Tigers traded Verlander to Houston at the latter end of August. After being sent to Houston, Verlander started five games for the Astros to finish the regular season going 5-0 and pitching his way to a 1.06 ERA and 0.647 WHIP.
Verlander's excellence has carried into the postseason as well. In addition to starting two games, he was used out of the bullpen during the ALDS against the Boston Red Sox. Altogether he's thrown 17.2 innings and allowed just four runs while putting together a 16-5 strikeout-to-walk ratio.
The Astros have a 2-0 lead over the Yankees in the ALCS following Saturday's victory. Charlie Morton will attempt to extend that lead and continue Houston's string of spectacular starts when he takes the mound for Game 3 on Monday.



The Boston Red Sox lost to the Houston Astros in the American League Division Series but are now focusing on their managerial search.
On Sunday, Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic reported Astros bench coach Alex Cora is seen as Boston's "top candidate" to replace John Farrell. This comes after the Red Sox fired Farrell on Wednesday following their four-game loss to Houston.
Baseball reporter Peter Gammons noted Red Sox President Dave Dombrowski received a recommendation regarding Cora from Houston manager A.J. Hinch. The Astros hired Cora to his current position in November 2016 after he played 14 seasons from 1998 through 2011, and he's helped lead them to within two victories of the World Series this postseason.
According to Dan Shaughnessy of the Boston Globe, Dombrowski was "expected to interview [Cora] on Sunday" while the Astros were off during their American League Championship Series against the New York Yankees.
The Red Sox are not without competition, as David Lennon and Marc Carig of Newsday reported the New York Mets are also expected to interview Cora for their open manager position with the Astros in New York for the ALCS.
"He has a great personality," former teammate and current Astros player Carlos Beltran said of Cora, per Lennon and Carig. "He's intense, players like to see that. But at the same time, he's a guy that can sit down in the clubhouse with the players and have a baseball conversation."
Beltran was not the only former teammate to recommend Cora:
The smartest player I ever played with was Alex Cora. It was inevitable that he was going to manage. Time has come. #RedSox #Truth
There is a clear connection with both franchises as Cora played for the Red Sox from 2006-08 and the Mets in 2009 and 2010.



Jon Lester is going to try to get the Chicago Cubs even in the National League Championship Series on Sunday. It may not be an easy task because the defending World Series champions are playing a powerful and motivated team in the Los Angeles Dodgers.
The Dodgers earned a 5-2 Game 1 victory after the Cubs jumped out to a 2-0 lead, but the Chicago offense dried up completely after Albert Almora's two-run home run in the fourth inning. The Cubs were held to four hits in the game by six Dodgers pitchers.
Clayton Kershaw pitched the first five innings and gave up the home run to Almora, and the Los Angeles bullpen was perfect. The relievers held the Cubs without a hit and didn't allow a walk. Kenta Maeda pitched one inning and earned the victory, while Kenley Jansen pitched the last 1.1 innings and recorded the save.
Lester is hoping to contain a Los Angeles lineup that had eight hits and two home runs against Cubs pitching. Rich Hill will take the mound for the Dodgers, and he will attempt to keep Chicago in check.
Jon Lester and Rich Hill face off tonight in Game Two of the #NLCS.

Who are you taking? #MLBTonight https://t.co/mqca4BOYRE
Lester pitched 9.2 innings in two appearances during the NLDS against the Washington Nationals. He gave up three hits and had a 1.86 earned-run average. Lester was 13-8 during the regular season, with his 4.33 ERA indicating he was not in top form through most of the campaign.
Hill pitched 4.0 innings during the Dodgers' three-game sweep of the Diamondbacks and gave up three hits and had a 4.50 ERA. Hill was 12-8 with a 3.32 ERA during the regular season.
The Cubs' big hitters have not been on their game in the postseason. Kris Bryant is hitting .208 with just five hits and two RBI in his six postseason games. He has struck out 11 times in 25 plate appearances. Anthony Rizzo is hitting .174 with four hits and six RBI, and he has fanned seven times in 25 plate appearances.
Second baseman Javier Baez has yet to get a hit in 17 at bats, while catcher Willson Contreras is hitting .222 with one home run and one RBI. Addison Russell (.190), Kyle Schwarber (.125) and Ben Zobrist (.222) are also struggling at the plate.

The Dodgers are doing a much better job at the plate. Justin Turner is hitting .412 with a home run and six RBI and Yasiel Puig is hitting .467 with one long ball and six RBI. The Dodgers are hitting .293 as a team with five home runs and 23 RBI.
Hill is looking forward to the challenge of facing the Cubs, saying, per Stats TSX (h/t CBSSports.com):
"It's great. Anytime you get the opportunity to play and compete against the best, I think it's something that everybody who is a competitor wants to do. You want to challenge yourself against the best, and they're the defending champions, and that's the club that we wanted to play and the team that we want to beat to get to the next step, which is the World Series."
Lester says he wants to keep the Dodgers from working long at bats. "I think it's just like anything this time of year, you have to try to hold back momentum as best you can," Lester said, per the same source. "You can't let those guys string hits together, long at-bats, foul balls, stuff like that." 
The Cubs and Dodgers will meet at Dodger Stadium at 7:38 p.m. ET, and Game 2 will be televised by TBS. The Dodgers opened as minus-145 favorites (wager $145 to win $100), according to OddsShark, while the Cubs are plus-125 underdogs (wager $100 to win $125). 
The Dodgers are plus-169 (wager $100 to win $169) to win the World Series, while the Cubs are plus-415 (wager $100 to win $415).
                 
Prediction
The Cubs have proved they can handle adversity in the postseason many times, and their comeback victory in Game 5 against the Nationals was the latest example. They were down 4-1 in that game when the Nationals went to ace Max Scherzer, but the Cubs rallied for the victory.
A 1-0 deficit to the Dodgers will not cause them to cry or shake in their boots.
However, the Cubs are struggling badly at the plate. Almora is the only player who is hitting well, with a .333 batting average, one home run, three RBI and a 1.067 OPS. Stars like Bryant and Russell are struggling.
It is not likely to turn around on the road against Hill. The Cubs will likely scratch out a run or two, but the Dodgers should be good for at least as much against Lester, and then they will work over the Cubs' soft bullpen.
The Dodgers take Game 2 and go to Chicago with a 2-0 lead in the series, which is scheduled for Tuesday at 9 p.m.
At that point, Los Angeles will be dictating the series. The Cubs may earn a victory or two, but the Dodgers will win the series in no more than six games.



The Houston Astros won the first two games of their American League Championship Series over the New York Yankees by identical 2-1 scores, and now the series shifts to the Bronx for Games 3 and 4 at minimum on Monday and Tuesday, respectively.
Here's a look at the ALCS schedule, per MLB.com, as well as the World Series odds prior to the beginning of the ALCS and National Championship League Series, per OddsShark.
Then, a preview and pick for Game 3 will be provided below.
      
American League Championship Series Schedule
Game 3 (Houston at New York): Monday, October 16 at 8 p.m. ET. on FS1
Game 4 (Houston at New York): Tuesday, October 17 at 5 p.m. ET. on FS1
*Game 5 (Houston at New York): Wednesday, October 18 at 5 p.m. ET. on FS1
*Game 6 (New York at Houston): Friday, October 20 at 8 p.m. ET. on FS1
*Game 7 (New York at Houston): Saturday, October 21 at 8 p.m. ET. on FS1
An asterisk indicates that the game will be played if necessary. MLB.TV subscribers can stream the games online, and fans can tune into all postseason contests through ESPN Radio (as well as their local carriers for games).
         
World Series Odds
1. Los Angeles Dodgers: +160
2. Houston Astros: +190
3. Chicago Cubs: +375
4. New York Yankees: +600
        
Game 3 Pick
New York Yankees starter CC Sabathia will take the mound in an attempt to put the Bronx Bombers in the ALCS win column, and his team has an advantage over the Astros on Monday thanks to his sterling record against the current Astros.
Opposing Astros hitters have managed just a .193 batting average against with only three home runs in 88 at-bats. Sabathia has also struck out 24 Houston batters.
On the flip side, Astros starting pitcher Charlie Morton has struggled a bit against these Yankees. Of note, second baseman Starlin Castro is 12-for-30 with three home runs, and Todd Frazier is 7-for-18 with two dingers. As a team, these Yankees have hit .327 against Morton with an eye-popping .994 OPS.
That doesn't bode well for Morton, who will pitch in the second-most homer-friendly park in baseball from the 2017 season, per ESPN.
Also, it's early yet, but indications from Daily Baseball Data report that a strong 13 mph cross wind will be blowing toward the direction of right field, which could give an advantage to Yankee lefties or right-handers who can take the ball the other way.
Furthermore, Morton has been a reverse-splits pitcher this year. He's held left-handers to a microscopic .561 OPS, but that number jumps up to .805 for right-handers.
Playing devil's advocate, Morton doesn't allow much hard contact. Per FanGraphs, only 26.9 percent of his batted balls have been hit hard, and he's given up just .86 homers per nine innings. His swinging strike rate is also an above-average 10.9 percent, so he could induce the free-swinging Yankees to strike out a bit.
Still, the deck is stacked a bit against Morton, who should post a decent outing but might give up a few runs in the process.
In the end, give the edge to the home side as they try to fight back from their second consecutive 2-0 hole after scoring just two runs in 18 innings to start this series.
Pick: New York 6, Astros 3



Fact: Justin Verlander struck out 13 batters in the Houston Astros' 2-1 victory over the New York Yankees in Game 2 of the American League Championship Series on Saturday, his seventh career postseason game with at least 10 strikeouts. No other pitcher in MLB history has more than five such games.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: Andrew Simon



The Houston Astros have taken a 2-0 lead over the New York Yankees in the American League Championship Series, while the Los Angeles Dodgers came back from a 2-0 deficit to defeat the Chicago Cubs 5-2 and earn a 1-0 advantage in the National League Championship Series.
Here's a look at the rest of the postseason schedule, as well as the most notable highlight and stat from each game so far.
       
American League Championship Series
Game 3 (Houston at New York): Monday, October 16 at 8 p.m. ET. on FS1
Game 4 (Houston at New York): Tuesday, October 17 at 5 p.m. ET. on FS1
*Game 5 (Houston at New York): Wednesday, October 18 at 5 p.m. ET. on FS1
*Game 6 (New York at Houston): Friday, October 20 at 8 p.m. ET. on FS1
*Game 7 (New York at Houston): Saturday, October 21 at 8 p.m. ET. on FS1
*If necessary
      
National League Championship Series
Game 2 (Chicago at Los Angeles): Sunday, October 15 at 7:30 p.m. ET on TBS
Game 3 (Los Angeles at Chicago): Tuesday, October 17 at 9 p.m. ET. on TBS
Game 4 (Los Angeles at Chicago): Wednesday, October 18 at 9 p.m. ET. on TBS
*Game 5 (Los Angeles at Chicago): Thursday, October 19 at 8 p.m. ET. on TBS
*Game 6 (Chicago at Los Angeles): Saturday, October 21 at 4 p.m. ET. on TBS
*Game 7 (Chicago at Los Angeles): Sunday, October 22 at 7:30 p.m. ET. on TBS
*If necessary
      
World Series
Game 1: Tuesday, October 24 on FOX
Game 2: Wednesday, October 25 on FOX
Game 3: Friday, October 27 on FOX
Game 4: Saturday, October 28 on FOX
*Game 5: Sunday, October 29 on FOX
*Game 6: Tuesday, October 31 on FOX
*Game 7: Wednesday, November 1 on FOX
*If necessary
World Series times have not yet been decided. Also, the team with the better regular-season record will host Games 1, 2, 6 and 7. The Dodgers have the best record of the teams remaining, followed by the Astros, Cubs and Yankees, in that order.
      
Top Highlights and Stats
Game 1, ALCS
After the Houston Astros took a 2-0 lead in the fourth inning, thanks largely to three singles from Jose Altuve, Carlos Correa and Yuli Gurriel, the Yankees staged a rally in the fourth inning after Greg Bird and Matt Holliday got on base.
After two outs, Aaron Judge laced a single into left field, and Bird raced for home. However, left fielder Marwin Gonzalez nailed Bird at the plate for the third out:
OUT AT THE PLATE!  https://t.co/9CNWwD5skF
The most notable statistic following this game is Astros starting pitcher Dallas Keuchel's sterling postseason record. After twirling seven shutout innings of four-hit ball (all singles) while striking out 10, this is where the 2015 American League Cy Young winner stands for his career, per ESPN Stats and Info:
In his 1st 4 postseason starts for the @astros, Dallas Keuchel did something no one had done before. @EliasSports:
https://t.co/TC99eRREap https://t.co/dojgiBBXKb
Notably, Keuchel also defeated the Yankees on the road in the 2015 AL wild-card game, throwing six shutout innings and striking out seven in a 3-0 victory.
      
Game 2, ALCS
It's hard to pick one highlight in a game that had an usual amount of them considering there were only three runs scored.
Carlos Correa's solo home run, Josh Reddick's leaping grab, the relay to tag out Brett Gardner as he attempted a triple, Todd Frazier's bizarre ground-rule double that got stuck in the fence and Justin Verlander's 13th strikeout are all options here.
However, the winner is Correa's game-winning double off Yankees closer Aroldis Chapman in the ninth inning to plate Jose Altuve and give Houston a 2-0 series lead:
WALKOFF! WHAT A FINISH!

The @astros take the 2-0 ALCS lead. https://t.co/pJekj6Leum
Correa and Altuve are now a combined 8-for-15 in the ALCS and have scored all four of the Astros' runs, but that's not the statistic of note for Game 2. Rather, that distinction goes to Verlander, who was still throwing darts late in the game, per Brian McTaggart of MLB.com:
Verlander's 90th pitch is 96 mph
A 96 mph heater is impressive enough. A 96 mph heater at the tail end of a pitcher's start is remarkable. But a 96 mph heater at the tail end of a start for a 34-year-old pitcher who has 13 MLB seasons of mileage on his arm is phenomenal.
       
Game 1, NLCS
The Dodgers chipped away at the Cubs' 2-0 lead thanks to a Yasiel Puig double and Charlie Culberson sacrifice fly before a Chris Taylor home run off reliever Hector Rondon gave Los Angeles the lead for good:
CHRIS TAYLOR! The @Dodgers take the lead. https://t.co/p6lbhVOMea
Puig also added an insurance run via a homer:
Welcome to the Puig-season. #NLCS https://t.co/vN43ZEp4Vo
As far as the most notable stat, starter Clayton Kershaw has had a problem with the long ball this postseason, per ESPN Stats and Info:
Clayton Kershaw is the first pitcher in Dodgers history to allow 5 HR in a single postseason. https://t.co/QMuOPVRfuF
He gave up an Albert Almora two-run blast in the fourth inning on this night. For his career, Kershaw has only given up .6 home runs per nine innings pitched. That number ballooned to 1.2 this year, although that's still better than the 1.27 league average, per FanGraphs.
Although Kershaw has given up home runs, he's still been decent in the playoffs. He gave up four home runs against Arizona in Game 1 of the NLDS, but they were all solo shots. Kershaw also allowed only one other hit while throwing 6.1 innings and striking out seven en route to a win that evening.
And against Chicago, Kershaw only allowed five base-runners in five innings while striking out four.
Still, it will be interesting to see how Kershaw fares for the rest of October.



After an emotional 9-8 victory to close out a five-game National League Division Series win over the Washington Nationals, the Chicago Cubs jumped out to an early 2-0 lead against the 104-win Los Angeles Dodgers but couldn't hold on as L.A. took the National League Championship Series opener at home 5-2.
A win on Sunday would split the series, giving the Cubs a chance to clinch the pennant at Wrigley Field since the next three games are scheduled in Chicago.
A victory for the Dodgers will put them just two games away from winning their first National League pennant since MVP Kirk Gibson led L.A. to the 1988 World Series.
Here's a look at the all-important second matchup, with schedule and ticket notes as well as a pick.
      
Game 2 Schedule
The second NLCS game will take place at 7:30 p.m. ET at Dodger Stadium on Sunday. TBS will televise the contest.
             
Ticket Information
Game 2 tickets can still be purchased through StubHub.
         
Pick
Starting pitcher Jon Lester will take the ball for the Chicago Cubs on Sunday.
Lester's postseason resume is phenomenal. He's started 20 playoff games, relieved in four more over the course of his career and has managed a 2.57 ERA over 143.1 innings.
The 33-year-old also has an impressive record against L.A. Notably, Justin Turner is 0-for-14 lifetime with four strikeouts, and everyone on Los Angeles with five or more at-bats against Lester is hitting below .300 against him.
Furthermore, Lester is facing a Dodgers lineup that has lost one of its best players (shortstop Corey Seager), who has a lower back injury and is not on the NLCS roster.
On paper, Lester is in line for a solid outing. However, the Cubs have a challenge of their own when they face Dodgers starter Rich Hill, who struck out 166 batters in 135.2 innings and won 12 games while pitching to a 3.25 ERA.
He's also coming into this game hot: In September, Hill was fantastic, striking out 40 in 29 innings to the tune of a 1.86 ERA and a microscopic .141 batting average against. He also threw nine perfect innings against the Pittsburgh Pirates in August before second baseman Josh Harrison hit a solo home run in the 10th.
Hill will be a mystery to most Cubs batters, as most of them haven't faced him yet. However, the Cubs could do some damage because they finished eighth in the league with a .777 OPS against left-handers.
This has the makings of a pitcher's duel given the quality of the starters (and both teams' bullpens, both of whom finished in the top six in ERA this year).
In the end, Lester's postseason pedigree is remarkable, and losing an All-Star in Seager, who had an .854 OPS, is a big blow to the Los Angeles offense. Those two factors are hard to ignore, so give the edge to the Cubs in a low-scoring win.
Score: Cubs 3, Dodgers 2



On the strength of a go-ahead, solo home run by outfielder Chris Taylor in the sixth inning and an insurance homer by Yasiel Puig in the seventh, the Los Angeles Dodgers defeated the Chicago Cubs 5-2 on Saturday in Game 1 of the National League Championship Series at Dodger Stadium in L.A.  
Although the Dodgers got just five innings out of ace Clayton Kershaw, five relievers combined to throw four innings of no-hit baseball in the victory.
Kershaw allowed four hits, one walk and two earned runs to go along with four strikeouts in the no decision, while Cubs starter Jose Quintana gave up two hits, two walks and two earned runs with four strikeouts in his five innings of work.
Kenta Maeda was the winning pitcher for the Dodgers, Hector Rondon took the loss for the Cubs, and Kenley Jansen was credited with the save.
Although the Dodgers flipped the script in comparison to Game 1 of last year's NLCS against the Cubs by coming out on top, things looked ominous for L.A. in the fourth inning.
Cubs outfielder Albert Almora Jr. connected with a two-run home run off Kershaw to put the Cubs ahead 2-0, as seen in this video courtesy of Fox Sports MLB:
The @Cubs strike first!

Albert Almora goes YARD off Clayton Kershaw. https://t.co/5OLIG2YIRu
The homer was the first extra-base hit of Almora's postseason career, but it marked a continuation of his success against lefties, as he hit a scorching .342 off them during the regular season.
Chris Emma of 670 The Score noted how far the 23-year-old has come:
We're watching the emergence of Albert Almora Jr. Steady in center field and now a threat at the plate. Young player keeps improving.
In stark contrast, the home run was another black mark on Kershaw's checkered playoff resume, as he became the first pitcher in Dodgers history to allow five homers in a single postseason, per ESPN Stats & Info.
Kershaw's offense picked him up in the following inning, though, when Puig cut the deficit to 2-1 with an RBI double and shortstop Charlie Culberson tied the game with a sacrifice fly.
It was a big moment for Culberson, who started in place of the injured Corey Seager after it was announced earlier in the day that Seager was being left off the NLCS roster because of a back ailment.
After the Culberson sac fly, Dodgers manager Dave Roberts pinch hit for Kershaw with catcher Kyle Farmer.
Farmer grounded out and left a man in scoring position, but MLB.com's Mike Petriello praised the decision to pinch hit in that situation:
Lest there be any debate, hitting for Kershaw now is a trillion percent the right call.
While the move didn't pay dividends in that moment, the Dodgers bullpen made Roberts look like a genius by locking down the Cubs the rest of the way.
They also benefited from Taylor's big bat, as he put Los Angeles on top 3-2 in the sixth with a solo shot off Rondon, who replaced Quintana:
CHRIS TAYLOR! The @Dodgers take the lead. https://t.co/p6lbhVOMea
The Dodgers added to their advantage in the seventh when Puig led off the inning by cranking the first home run of his playoff career:
*ahem* PUUUUUUUUUUUUUIIIIIGGGGGGGGGGG https://t.co/GFanKKrKgb
Puig has been an offensive catalyst for the Dodgers during these playoffs, which seemed unlikely as recently as one year ago.
Bill Shaikin of the Los Angeles Times pointed out that it wasn't long ago that Puig had fallen out of favor with the organization:
This is a reminder that 29 teams passed on the chance to trade for Yasiel Puig a year ago July.
Another important insurance run was tacked on later in the inning when Culberson scored on a Justin Turner single.
Culberson was initially ruled out, but upon review, it was determined that Cubs catcher Willson Contreras blocked the plate with his leg and did not provide Culberson a lane, so he was called safe.
That decision incensed Cubs manager Joe Maddon, who was tossed from the contest after arguing.
After the game, Maddon expressed dismay with the rule, but didn't blame the umpires for their decision, according to ESPN.com's Jesse Rogers:
"I cannot disagree more with the interpretation of the rule, however, I will defend the umpires. The umpires did everything according to what they've been told. From day one, I've disagreed with the content of the rule. That was a beautifully done major league play that gets interpreted tantamount to the soda tax in Chicago."
The three-run cushion was more than the Dodgers needed to hold on to the victory with Tony Watson getting two outs in the eighth and Jansen recording the final four outs of the ballgame.
Los Angeles improved to 4-0 in the playoffs after sweeping the Arizona Diamondbacks in the NLDS, and its struggles late in the regular season appear to be a thing of the past.
The Dodgers will have an opportunity to take a commanding 2-0 series lead on the defending World Series champions Sunday when Rich Hill takes the mound to contest Jon Lester.



New York Yankees manager Joe Girardi said he pulled Luis Severino from Saturday's American League Championship Series loss to the Houston Astros after four innings because he thought the starting pitcher was injured.
After the 2-1 Game 2 defeat, Severino said he "wanted to go out there and pitch" and team doctors confirmed the starter wasn't hurt, per Andrew Marchand of ESPN.com.
"I think it is my responsibility to protect this kid," Girardi said.
Severino threw 62 pitches across his four innings of work, giving up two hits, two walks and one earned run.
Tommy Kahnle and David Robertson covered four scoreless innings out of the bullpen for the Yanks, but closer Aroldis Chapman allowed the winning run in the bottom of the ninth.
Girardi said Severino's actions on the mound suggested to him there might have been a shoulder problem, but the pitcher said he "didn't feel anything," per Marchand. The Yankees manager added the starter might go for further testing, something Severino said he didn't think was necessary.
Meanwhile, Saturday's loss put New York in a 2-0 series hole for the second straight series. They fell behind the Cleveland Indians in the ALDS before storming back to win three consecutive games to punch their ticket to face the Astros.
It's unclear if Severino will take the ball again in the series. CC Sabathia is the team's probable starter for Game 3 on Monday night at Yankee Stadium.



Miami Marlins co-owner Derek Jeter announced Saturday the MLB organization is donating $200,000 to aid hurricane relief efforts.
Andy Slater of WINZ passed along the news.
The Marlins previously held a relief drive with Feeding South Florida and American Red Cross in early September to collect items and donations following Hurricane Harvey, which caused major destruction in Texas, per Tim Healey of the Sun Sentinel.
Hurricane Irma proceeded to strike Florida and Hurricane Maria left devastation across Puerto Rico later in September as part of an active Atlantic hurricane season.
Julia Horowitz of CNN Money noted Moody's Analytics estimated damage from Harvey and Irma at over $150 billion. Nicole Friedman of the Wall Street Journal added Maria caused insured damages of up to $85 billion.
Former Marlins owner Jeffrey Loria drew criticism last month for failing to announce a donation to relief efforts like the Miami Dolphins, Miami Heat and Florida Panthers after Irma moved through the Southeast.
Jeter, along with a group that also features Bruce Sherman, took ownership of the club in late September.



Justin Verlander struck out 13 over nine innings and Carlos Correa delivered a solo home run and the game-ending RBI double as the Houston Astros won 2-1 to take a 2-0 American League Championship Series lead over the New York Yankees at Minute Maid Park on Saturday.
Jose Altuve scored the game-winning run. A Todd Frazier double knocked in Aaron Hicks for the Yankees' lone tally during the top of the fifth inning.
Verlander was the story of the Astros' Game 2 victory: 
PURE DOMINATION by Justin Verlander. What a performance.

9IP 5H 1ER 1BB 13K, 124 pitches https://t.co/RA18zgwmeu
His dazzling array of blazing fastballs and sharp breaking balls stymied the Yankees all night, but Verlander's ability to keep his velocity high in the late innings was most notable. Brian McTaggart of MLB.com tweeted this remark regarding Verlander's fastball:
Verlander's 90th pitch is 96 mph
And baseball analyst Jayson Stark noted how many strikes Verlander threw during his efficient outing:
Verlander’s incredible line: 123 pitches, 93 strikes! Only known postseason starter to throw that many strikes: Schilling (99!) in ‘93 WS
Furthermore, Hicks was the only Yankee runner to safely make it past second base for the entire night.
The Astros' offensive star was Correa. In the fourth inning, he hit a shot off Yankees starter Luis Severino that floated over Aaron Judge's glove and the right field fence to break a scoreless tie.
IT IS GONE. Carlos Correa with a solo homer giving the @astros the 1-0 lead over the Yankees in the 4th.  https://t.co/uwcvpfgXhZ
A young fan in right field reached to grab the ball, leading to a review for interference. However, the umpires abided with the call on the field, and the Astros' 1-0 advantage stood.
Wth the score tied at one in the bottom of the ninth, Altuve smacked a one-out single off Yankee closer Aroldis Chapman. Correa then walked up to the plate and worked the count full. On the sixth pitch of the at-bat, the Houston shortstop took a 99 mph fastball and lined it into right-center field:
WALKOFF! WHAT A FINISH!

The @astros take the 2-0 ALCS lead. https://t.co/pJekj6Leum
Altuve sprinted around third and headed for home. Shortstop Didi Gregorius' relay to Gary Sanchez beat the Astros second baseman to the plate, but the Yankees catcher couldn't handle the throw.
The game was eventful throughout the night. In the third inning, Houston made two great defensive plays on back-to-back outs.
First, right fielder Josh Reddick prevented an extra-base hit off the bat of Chase Headley by leaping and catching the ball at the warning track:
Josh Reddick says NOPE.  https://t.co/De1LsGa5sn
With two out, Brett Gardner then worked the count full before lining a shot down the right field line. He tried for a triple, but the relay throws from Reddick to Correa to third baseman Alex Bregman were accurate, leading to a close tag at third base:
OUT. GOT HIM. https://t.co/jEYustVUOt
Frazier's two-out double to knock in Hicks for the Yankees' lone run was notable as well, as his hit got wedged between the padding and chain-link fence in center field:
Baseball. https://t.co/RuADRQwvXO
The umpires called a ground-rule double, tying the game at one in the top of the fifth. The Astros averted further damage after Headley lined out to center field to end the threat.
Verlander earned the complete-game win, and Chapman took the loss. Severino tossed four innings of one-run ball but left the game in the fifth inning after being hit by a Yuli Gurriel comeback shot on his left wrist. Severino told the press after the game that he is fine.
Houston and New York will head to Yankee Stadium for Game 3 of their best-of-seven series. Charlie Morton will take the ball for the Astros, while CC Sabathia will start for the Yankees. Game time is 8 p.m. ET. Monday night.
                     
Get the best sports content from the web and social in the new B/R app. Get the app and get the game.



The New York Mets reportedly have "serious interest" in former Detroit Tigers skipper Brad Ausmus to serve as their new manager, according to The Athletic's Peter Gammons. 
Gammons added that the Mets think Ausmus could be inclined to step away from the bench for a year to mull over his options. 
The Tigers opted not to retain Ausmus at the end of the 2017 season after the team stumbled to a 64-98 record. Over four years in Detroit, Ausmus compiled a 314-332 record, good for a .486 winning percentage.
According to the New York Post's Mike Puma, the Mets plan to consider former Chicago White Sox manager Robin Ventura, Joe McEwing, Houston Astros bench coach Alex Cora, hitting coach Kevin Long, Los Angeles Dodgers bench coach Bob Geren and former third base coach Chip Hale for the position. 
A source also told Puma that Sandy Alomar Jr., who played for the team in 2007, "is under strong consideration to be interviewed" for the vacant gig. 
The Mets opened their managerial search at the end of the 2017 season after opting not to bring back Terry Collins—who has since assumed a front-office role as the team turns its attention to finding a boss who can lead the franchise back into the postseason conversation following a 70-92 finish in 2017. 



Los Angeles Dodgers shortstop Corey Seager will not be with the team as it plays the Chicago Cubs in the National League Championship Series. 
Per Bill Shaikin of the Los Angeles Times, Seager is not on the Dodgers' 25-man roster for the NLCS due to a back injury. 
Shaikin added that Joc Pederson has been put on the Dodgers' NLCS roster in the event Chris Taylor and/or Enrique Hernandez need to play shortstop. 
Joshua Thornton of MLB.com noted Seager has been held out of team workouts the previous two days due to a muscular issue in his back. Andy McCullough of the Los Angeles Times reported Seager injured his back in Game 3 of the National League Division Series against the Arizona Diamondbacks. 
Following up on his Rookie of the Year-winning campaign a year ago, Seager continues to be one of MLB's best shortstops. The 23-year-old hit .295/.375/.479 in 145 games during the 2017 regular season. 
On almost any other team, losing Seager would be a big blow to the lineup. Not only does he boast power, he helps set the table with his ability to draw walks and get on base.
The Dodgers, on the other hand, have no shortage of offensive firepower, even without Seager. Cody Bellinger is the runaway favorite for National League Rookie of the Year, while Yasiel Puig and Justin Turner also help make up the heart of the order. Los Angeles even acquired Curtis Granderson in August to further solidify the offense.
If Taylor ends up as Seager's replacement at shortstop, he's not a bad fallback. He hit .288/.354/.496 during the regular season and played five different positions for Dodgers manager Dave Roberts. 



The New York Yankees couldn't figure out Houston Astros starter Dallas Keuchel in Game 1 of the series and dropped a 2-1 decision.
If they have the same problem against Justin Verlander Saturday afternoon in Houston, the Yankees will face a 2-0 deficit and have big problems.
The only New York run in Game 1 came on a home run by Greg Bird, with two outs in the ninth inning off of Ken Giles, but the Astros closer shook off that tape-measure shot by striking out Jacoby Ellsbury for the last out of the game.

The Yankees should feel confident about their chances with ace Luis Severino on the mound. Severino was nasty and consistent throughout the season with a 14-6 record and a 2.98 earned-run average, while Verlander was 15-8 with a 3.36 ERA.
New York manager Joe Girardi saw Severino get off to a rough start in the Wild Card Game against the Minnesota Twins when he was able to record just one out in the first inning, but the right-hander bounced back with a seven-inning, four-hit effort with three earned runs in Game 4 against the Cleveland Indians.
Severino's performance this season and his strong showing against the Indians has given Girardi confidence in the pitcher. 
"[Severino] spent a whole year trying to bounce back [from] last year and he figured it out," Girardi said, per Dan Martin of the New York Post. "And it really turned about the last week in spring training for [Severino] and I think that experience probably helped him."
The Astros are minus-130 favorites in Game 2, while the Yankees are plus-120 underdogs, according to OddsShark. First pitch is scheduled for 4:08 p.m. ET, and the game will be televised by FS1.
Severino is going to have to contend with the strong Houston lineup that includes MVP candidate Jose Altuve, Carlos Correa, George Springer and a slew of other great bats.
Altuve is hitting .579 in the postseason with three home runs, four RBI and six runs scored. Correa doesn't have the same type of batting average at .238, but he has hit two home runs and driven in a team-high seven runs. Springer is hitting .350 with a home run, two RBI and four runs scored.
The Yankees will try to attack the power pitch of Verlander with Aaron Judge, Gary Sanchez, Didi Gregorius, Brett Gardner and Bird.
Judge has been struggling with his batting average at .148 and 17 striekouts in 23 plate appearances, but he appeared to have better at bats in Game 1 against the Astros. Sanchez is also struggling with a .200 batting average, but he does have two postseason home runs. 
Gregorius has three home runs and six RBI in the postseason, but his .208 average indicates that his consistency is an issue. Gardner is hitting .321 with a home run, three RBI and five runs scored. Bird is hitting .280 with three home runs and five RBI.
On the 12th pitch of the at-bat, Brett Gardner delivered! 

#ALDS https://t.co/sT7nBHu9QI
Prediction
Verlander is a formidable pitcher who has been razor sharp since the Astros acquired him from the Detroit Tigers at the end of August.
The 34-year-old power pitcher was 5-0 during the regular season with a 1.06 ERA in a Houston uniform, and he added two more victories in division series against the Red Sox. 
The Yankees don't want to go down 2-0 against the Astros, even though they were able to overcome that deficit in the ALDS against the Cleveland Indians.
Severino is capable of pitching a solid game against the Astros, but shutting down this powerful team may be too much to ask. The Yankees are going to have to figure out a way to score some runs against Verlander.
Look for Gardner, Gregorius and Bird to lead, and the Yankees will find a way to square the series before heading back to the Bronx and Yankee Stadium.



When the Los Angeles Dodgers and Chicago Cubs met in last year's National League Championship Series, it was easy to envision both rising powerhouses writing the first chapter of a rich postseason feud.
For all of MLB's volatility, they will once again battle for the NL pennant.
This time, however, the Dodgers wield home-field advantage and the larger title drought. After the Cubs and Dodgers respectively won 103 and 91 games last season, they entered this postseason with 92 and 104 victories.
The NL Central champions boast a healthy Kyle Schwarber, but the NL West conquerors welcome runaway NL Rookie of the Year favorite Cody Bellinger to the fold. Midseason acquisitions Jose Quintana and Yu Darvish also bolster each squad's rotation.
Will the Dodgers make their first Fall Classic since 1988, or will the Cubs become the first back-to-back NL pennant winner since the 2008-2009 Philadelphia Phillies? Let's break down their NLCS rematch after looking at the preliminary schedule and updated playoffs odds, courtesy of OddsShark. 
       
2017 NLCS Schedule: Los Angeles Dodgers vs. Chicago Cubs
Game 1: Saturday, Oct. 14 at 8 p.m. ET (at L.A.)
Game 2: Sunday, Oct. 15 at 7:30 p.m. ET (at L.A.)
Game 3: Tuesday, Oct. 17 at 9 p.m. ET (at CHI)
Game 4: Wednesday, Oct. 18 at 9 p.m. ET (at CHI)
Game 5*: Thursday, Oct. 19 at 8 p.m. ET (at CHI)
Game 6*: Saturday, Oct. 21 at 4 p.m. ET (at L.A.)
Game 7*: Sunday, Oct. 22 at 7:30 p.m. ET (at L.A)
All games will be televised on TBS. *= if necessary     
      
Updated Odds to Win World Series
Los Angeles Dodgers: 39-20
Houston Astros: 9-4
New York Yankees: 14-5
Chicago Cubs: 15-4     
          
Preview

For the second time this postseason, the Dodgers have watched a future opponent exhaust its starters to set up a showdown with the NL's elite club.
Using Zack Greinke and Robbie Ray in the NL Wild Card Game caused the Arizona Diamondbacks to open the National League Division Series with Taijuan Walker, who allowed four runs in the first inning. Zack Godley pitched five innings in relief, forcing Ray to start Game 2 two days after his relief outing.
Jake Arrieta and Jon Lester pitched a combined 7.2 innings in Game 4, which was delayed to Wednesday because of inclement weather. Quintana made a brief appearance in Thursday's Game 5, started by Kyle Hendricks.
So who's left for Saturday's NLCS opener?
Cubs manager Joe Maddon may have to counter a fully rested Clayton Kershaw with John Lackey, who did not pitch in the NLDS. Although the 38-year-old sports a career 3.27 ERA in the playoffs and has played for three different World Series champions, he surrendered a 4.59 ERA and 36 homers during the season.

Per CBS Chicago, team president Theo Epstein said Quintana remains under consideration because he threw just 12 pitches on Thursday.
"We'll talk to Q," Epstein said. "He's a candidate. It wasn't much more than a side (session) today. We'll see. If he's feeling good, he might be a candidate. We'll figure it out on the plane before we start drinking."
Maddon said during Friday night's press conference, per Sirius XM's Jim Bowden, that he is still deliberating his choice between Lackey and Quintana.
It won't matter if the Cubs don't start hitting. They scored nine of the series' 17 runs in Game 5, finishing with a .180/.285/.280 slash line. Kris Bryant and Anthony Rizzo each went 4-for-20 with one walk, and the reigning NL MVP compiled 10 strikeouts.
Both squads ended the season with a .437 team slugging percentage, but the Dodgers posted an NL-best 3.38 ERA. Their lefty-heavy staff limited the high-powered Diamondbacks—fueled by right-handed superstars Paul Goldschmidt and J.D. Martinez—to 10 runs in a three-game sweep despite Kershaw relinquishing four homers in Game 1.
Kershaw nevertheless gives Los Angeles an edge to commence the NLCS. As long as manager Dave Roberts doesn't overextend him again.
MLB.com's Mike Petriello detailed the ace's seventh-inning playoff woes after he yielded two blasts to Arizona during the problematic frame:
One last thing on this...

Kershaw, postseason career:

Innings 1-6: .203 BA, 3.31 ERA
Innings 7+:  .425 BA, 18.25 ERA
Having followed a dominant season by allowing one run over three relief outings, Brandon Morrow provided the bridge to closer Kenley Jansen that Los Angeles missed during past playoff shortcomings. A deep rotation with Darvish, Rich Hill and Alex Wood also means Kershaw will not need to pitch on short rest.
Now the lineup must help. Last year, the Dodgers mustered 17 runs in a six-game series loss to the Cubs. Justin Turner holds a career 1.105 postseason OPS, but the Cubs contained him to one extra-base hit (a homer) in his only NLCS appearance.
Along with Turner, Yasiel Puig powered them past the Diamondbacks by reaching base seven times in 13 plate appearances. The 26-year-old unlocked his star upside after the All-Star break, when he batted .278/.374/.533.
A productive Puig will not be Chicago's friend.
      
Prediction

The Dodgers have improved since last year's encounter with help from a deeper pitching staff. The Cubs, meanwhile, have backtracked because of regressed pitching.
Arrieta and Lester can't absorb all the blame. After posting MLB's worst second-half walk rate (4.70 per nine innings), courtesy of FanGraphs, the bullpen's control problems persisted into the playoffs.
Carl Edwards Jr. relinquished four of the team's 25 NLDS walks in 2.1 innings. A reliable reliever during the season, he surrendered six runs and failed to record an out in each of his last two outings. At this rate, Maddon might need to eschew him entirely against Los Angeles.
That means Chicago will continue to tax closer Wade Davis, who yielded two hits and two walks in Game 5's seven-out save requiring 44 pitches. The same pitcher who did not cede a long ball in 2014 or 2016 watched Michael Taylor hit a go-ahead grand slam the previous day.
Superior pitching sends the Dodgers to the World Series, reversing last year's script with a six-game triumph. 



Houston Astros top-level utilityman Marwin Gonzalez experienced multiple highs Friday, helping his team take a 1-0 lead over the New York Yankees in the American League Championship Series and going to the hospital where his wife, Noel, gave birth to the couple's third child.
Per ESPN's Scott Lauber, Gonzalez received a security escort out of Minute Maid Park following his postgame press conference to be present at a local hospital as his wife was giving birth.
Lauber noted Gonzalez jokingly said he was thinking of naming the couple's new baby boy after either Jose Altuve or Dallas Keuchel.
Before that, Gonzalez played a significant role in Houston's 2-1 win. He threw out Greg Bird at home plate after Aaron Judge singled to end the top of the fifth inning.
.@astros needed a perfect throw. @marwinGF9 delivered. #ALCS https://t.co/43evr8zMFP
The Astros had just taken a 2-0 lead in the bottom of the fourth. Keuchel had been cruising heading into the fifth, allowing just two singles. The left-hander finished with 10 strikeouts over seven innings.
The Yankees finally got on the board in the top of the ninth when Bird hit a solo homer off Astros closer Ken Giles, making Gonzalez's throw look even bigger in hindsight.
Gonzalez, 28, is having a year to remember. He set career highs with a .303/.377/.530 slash line and 23 home runs with 90 RBI in 134 regular-season games.



The National League Championship Series will not be decided by what happens in Game 1, but if the Chicago Cubs can find a way to do what most postseason opponents have done to Clayton Kershaw, they should feel good about their chances.
Even if they can't solve Kershaw (5-7, 4.63 earned run average in the postseason) in Game 1, it's not likely to have a big impact in the Chicago locker room. The Cubs are a resilient team that excels at coming from behind and keeping their heads up even when they are struggling in a given moment.
The Cubs were down 3-1 in last year's World Series against the Cleveland Indians and won the last three to earn their first World Series title in 108 years. They trailed Game 5 against the Washington Nationals 4-1 Thursday night and came back to win thanks to a rally off of Washington ace Max Scherzer and then used a seven-out save from closer Wade Davis to clinch the series.
The Cubs are not likely to feel pressure in this series, but that's not the case with the Dodgers. They have not made it to the World Series since 1988, and it seems like this should be their year.
Manager Dave Roberts saw his team play sensational baseball through the early part of August, but the bottom dropped out in late August and early September when they lost 16 of 17 games.
However, when it looked like the team would fall apart, Los Angeles regained its stride and swept the Arizona Diamondbacks out of the playoffs.
The Cubs used much of their pitching staff while surviving the fifth game against the Nationals, and that could be the case for Game 1. Manager Joe Maddon was still considering John Lackey and Jose Quintana for the start late Friday, according to Gordon Wittenmyer of the Chicago Sun-Times.
Quintana threw 12 pitches in the Game 5 win at Washington, but Maddon does not believe that will be a big problem for the left-handed pitcher.
DOMINATION by Dallas Keuchel. #ArmOfTheNight https://t.co/5yzVrm0Gho
The New York Yankees will try to even their series when they face the Houston Astros in Game 2 of the American League Championship Series.
The Yankees dropped Game 1 by a 2-1 margin, as Houston pitcher Dallas Keuchel was sharp through the first seven innings and the Houston bullpen closed out the game.
While the Yankees have series-altering power with Aaron Judge, Gary Sanchez, Greg Bird (homered with two outs in the ninth inning in Game 1) and Didi Gregorius, the Astros are the best offensive team in baseball. They are led by Jose Altuve, Carlos Correa and George Springer, and they can hit with power and manufacture runs.
The Dodgers are -185 favorites (bet $185 to win $100) over the Cubs, who are +160 underdogs (bet $100 to win $160), according to OddsShark. The Astros are -165 favorites over the -145 underdog Yankees.
        
Predictions
The Cubs have clutch players in Anthony Rizzo, Addison Russell and Willson Contreras, and they are not going to be intimidated. However, the Dodgers have regained their stride at the right moment, and they should be on top of their game.
Since the Dodgers are sharp and the Cubs won't be intimidated, this appears to be a seven-game series. It may come down to the team that can execute the best in the seventh, eighth and ninth innings.
While there is full respect for Davis, the belief here is that Kenley Jansen is the best closer in the game. The Dodgers may scratch out a late run or two, and Jansen will make that late offense pay off as he closes out the seventh game and punches the Dodgers' ticket to the World Series.
The Yankees should not be underestimated under any circumstances. They found a way to beat the red-hot Cleveland Indians after trailing 2-0, and a tight loss in Game 1 will not deter them.
However, the Yankee pitching staff will face its biggest test against Altuve, Correa, Springer and a slew of other fine hitters.
Houston will beat the Yankees in six games and go onto their first World Series as an American League representative. (They represented the National League in 2005 and lost four straight games to the Chicago White Sox.)



Alex Rodriguez's use of performance-enhancing drugs during his Major League Baseball career came at a high cost personally and financially.
In an interview on Undeniable with Joe Buck (via ESPN.com), Rodriguez said he lost his reputation and cost himself over $40 million in salary by taking steroids:
"Yeah, I mean there's so many frustrating things when you look back at that. Number one, you have a guaranteed contract for hundreds of millions of dollars. Literally, you can sit on the couch and get fat. Right, how stupid can you be? ... This thing cost me over $40 million. And it cost me my reputation, and it may have cost me the Hall of Fame and a number of other things."
Rodriguez was suspended for the entire 2014 season after he was named among athletes who obtained illegal performance-enhancing drugs and human growth hormone in the Biogenesis scandal.
In addition to sitting out all 162 games for the New York Yankees in 2014, Rodriguez received less than $3 million of his $25 million base salary for the season.
Rodriguez told Buck he would wake up some nights in 2014 asking himself: "How the F did I get myself in this position?' I'm the only jackass that has pocket aces and figures out a way to lose the hand."
Rodriguez had a successful return in 2015 with 33 home runs in 151 games, but he struggled with a .200/.247/.351 slash line in 65 games in 2016 before moving into a special advisor role with the Yankees after playing his final game Aug. 12.



The Houston Astros took Game 1 of the American League Championship Series with a 2-1 victory over the New York Yankees on Friday night, but there's no time to reflect on that result.
Another game is on the docket on Saturday, with the home team looking to take a commanding lead with the same blend of stellar pitching and timely hitting that got the job done on Friday.
Dallas Keuchel was marvelous in throwing seven shutout innings, striking out 10 Yankees to continue his recent dominance of New York.
Dallas Keuchel's first pitcher in playoff history to record consecutive scoreless starts against Yankees of 7 or more IP with 7 or more Ks.
He got just enough offense as Houston scored twice in the fourth on RBI singles from Carlos Correa and Yuli Gurriel.
Hoping not to go down 2-0, the Yankees will start right-hander Luis Severino, who was strong in Game 4 of the ALDS against the Cleveland Indians after failing to complete an inning in the Wild Card game. The Astros counter with righty Justin Verlander, who is looking to earn his third postseason win after getting two against the Boston Red Sox in the ALDS.
        
The Yankees struck out 14 times in Game 1, including four times in 1.2 innings against Houston closer Ken Giles. That gives them 83 strikeouts in seven games, compared to 49 hits and 29 walks. They fanned a not-so-nice 69 times during the ALDS, and if Game 1 of the ALCS is any indication, there have been no adjustments made.
And now they have to face Verlander, whom Houston picked up from the Detroit Tigers at the last second before the non-waiver deadline expired in August. Since joining the Astros, he's gone 7-0 in seven appearances, including a win in relief in the ALDS Game 4 clincher over Boston.
Strangely enough, Yankees haven’t seen Verlander this season. He pitches Game 2
Verlander has 46 strikeouts in 42.2 innings with the Astros, with 222 strikeouts overall between Detroit and Houston.
All the strikeouts in Game 1 aside, some key Yankees took stride. Aaron Judge, who had a whopping 16 strikeouts in the ALDS, was 1-for-3 with a walk and a strikeout. Brett Gardner and Starlin Castro also had singles after going a combined 8-for-43 against Cleveland.
And Greg Bird was 2-for-4 with a ninth-inning home run. Three of his seven hits this postseason have left the yard.
            

Jose Altuve may or may not be the American League MVP after leading the league in batting (.346) and hits (204). Along the way it seemed like he got the best of every pitcher he faced, with the man he will be facing to start Game 2 among a select few he hasn't.
Luis Severino retired Altuve in four of five at-bats this season, striking him out twice in the process. Altuve's only hit was an infield single in an 8-1 home win over the Yankees on July 2.

Altuve is the straw who stirs Houston's drink when at the plate, and when he struggles, so usually does his team. In the 34 games he started but did not record a hit, the Astros—who won 101 games—went 18-16 and averaged 3.79 runs per game. They averaged an AL-best 5.53 runs per game overall.
Houston had six hits against Yankees pitching in Game 1, with three by Altuve. His fourth-inning single sparked the Astros' scoring, as he followed that with a stolen base and then scored on Carlos Correa's hit.
                
Follow Brian J. Pedersen on Twitter at @realBJP.



For the second straight season, the Chicago Cubs and Los Angeles Dodgers will meet in the National League Championship Series.
But this time around, Los Angeles will be the favorite, as the series gets ready to begin in Hollywood with a pair of showdowns at Dodger Stadium.
Seeking revenge and their first trip to the World Series since 1988, the Dodgers will attempt to make a statement Saturday evening when things get underway.
Here's a rundown of when and where you can catch the action.
Date: Saturday, Oct. 14
Time: 8:08 p.m. ET
TV: TBS
Live Stream: MLB.tv
Tickets: StubHub
          
Game 1 Preview

The buzzword for Game 1 of the NLCS will be rest. The Dodgers have had plenty of it, while the Cubs have had virtually none after flying cross-country following their Game 5 win over the Washington Nationals on Thursday evening.
Thanks to their tidy sweep of the Arizona Diamondbacks, the Dodgers have been off since Monday. Perhaps more importantly, Game 1 starter Clayton Kershaw hasn't pitched since Oct. 6, meaning he will have had a more than a week's worth of rest when he takes the bump Saturday evening at Dodger Stadium.
The question, though, is whether Kershaw will be able to tame the Cubs' big bats and avoid surrendering long balls.
For starters, Kershaw posted a career-worst home run-to-fly ball ratio of 15.9 percent this season, according to FanGraphs. Then, in Game 1 of the NLDS, Kershaw allowed four more crush jobs at the hands of the Diamondbacks, including two in the seventh inning that trimmed the Dodgers' advantage to three.
Looking ahead, manager Dave Roberts doesn't sound particularly concerned about his ace thanks in part to a bullpen that finished the regular season ranked first in the NL with a 3.38 ERA and 637 strikeouts.
"No one wants it more than he does, and no one is going to compete more," Roberts said, according to the Los Angeles Times' Andy McCullough. "But I think to have the guys in the 'pen, who I feel very confident in going to, lends itself to not pushing him."
For the Cubs, the key will be silencing the Dodger bats to the point their bullpen doesn't need to do more heavy lifting following a grueling Game 5 against the Nationals that saw six different pitchers enter in relief behind Kyle Hendricks.
That's a tall task considering the Dodgers are coming off a three-game set against the Diamondbacks in which they racked up 31 hits and a .298 average. By comparison, the Cubs recorded 27 hits in five games against the Nationals.
Chicago should give Los Angeles a fight once it settles in, but the NL West champions should have the upper hand in the series' opening tilt.
Prediction: Dodgers 6, Cubs 3



Dallas Keuchel has been many things in his Houston Astros career: Gold Glove recipient, All-Star Game starter, undisputed ace, Cy Young Award winner.
Now, add another accolade to the left-hander's sterling resume: New York Yankees slayer.
In Game 1 of the American League Championship Series on Friday, Keuchel twirled seven shutout innings, allowing four hits and one walk and striking out 10.
The Yanks plated a run in the ninth when first baseman Greg Bird took Houston closer Ken Giles deep, but Giles locked down the save, and the 'Stros prevailed, 2-1, at Minute Maid Park.
Astros second baseman and presumptive AL MVP Jose Altuve went 3-for-4 with a stolen base and a run scored. Shortstop Carlos Correa and first baseman Yuli Gurriel picked up key RBI. Left fielder Marwin Gonzalez conjured an indispensable outfield assist.
But the night's unqualified hero was Keuchel.

Coming into the game, Keuchel owned a 1.41 ERA in six career regular-season starts against the Yankees with 45 strikeouts in 44.2 innings. Current Yankees batters were hitting .181 against him with a .287 slugging percentage.
In the 2015 Wild Card Game, the hirsute Houston hurler went six scoreless with seven strikeouts against New York as the Astros prevailed, 3-0.
Cry small sample size. Call it blind luck. For whatever reason, Keuchel had owned the Yankees with a capital "O."
Want a sprinkling of salt, Bronx faithful? Here you go, courtesy of ESPN Stats & Info:
Dallas Keuchel is the first pitcher with consecutive 7-K postseason games vs the Yankees since Pedro Martínez in 2003-04. https://t.co/ECbcMBBUlV
Or how about this, via Sportsnet Stats:
#Astros Dallas Keuchel has the lowest career ERA vs the Yankees among any starting pitcher in history https://t.co/d3ChnJeA5w
Sorry, now we're just going to slather lemon juice directly into the wound:
DNA test is in, Dallas Keuchel, you are the Yankees daddy!!! #Astros https://t.co/CUzODAy909
"It's not just because it's the Yankees," Keuchel said prior to Friday's ALCS Game 1, per Dan Martin of the New York Post. "I think it's just been a culmination of command, location, maybe a little bit more confidence. And just because it's the Yankees you kind of get a little bit more amped and a little more jittery because it is the pinstripes and such a storied organization."
Keuchel is acknowledging he's motivated by the Yankees even as he's denying it. More importantly, he's proving he's the co-ace Houston needs.
The Astros acquired righty Justin Verlander at the waiver deadline from the Detroit Tigers. They can trot out Verlander, the playoff veteran and former AL Cy Young Award and MVP winner, in the October crucible.
They still need Keuchel to play Robin to Verlander's Batman. And perhaps vice versa. 
Verlander posted a 1.06 ERA in five starts with the Astros but owned a 3.36 ERA overall. Compare that to Keuchel's 2.90 overall ERA, and you see why the sinkerballing southpaw is ostensibly Houston's horse.
Keuchel missed almost two months this season with a neck injury. He sported a 4.55 ERA in 2016 after dominating in 2015. There were reasons to wonder if he was a big-game pitcher or a big-time liability.
Those doubts were laid to rest Friday.
"He's just special," Correa said after Friday's win, per MLB.com's Brian McTaggart and Bryan Hoch. "He's special to watch. I love playing behind him."

It's only one game, and the Yankees could come storming back. Just ask the defending Junior Circuit champion Cleveland Indians, who learned the hard way what it means to underestimate these irrepressible pinstripe whippersnappers. 
This series is merely getting started, and we should all be pleased about that. Buy the ticket and enjoy the ride.
If the Astros were looking to throw down the gauntlet, however, throw it they did. They are on track to break one of MLB's quietest championship droughts.
And the gauntlet was thrown, fittingly and promisingly, by the left arm of Dallas Keuchel.
He could throw again in Game 5 on normal rest, and be available in a potential Game 7 in this new era of the postseason starter-reliever. 
He's been many things in his Houston career. Now, he has a chance to be a certified Yankee killer—and possibly a world champion.
   
All statistics current as of Friday and courtesy of Baseball-Reference.



Houston Astros second baseman Jose Altuve told reporters Friday that if he had a vote for American League MVP, he would cast it for New York Yankees right fielder Aaron Judge. 
"Probably him—Judge. Yeah," Altuve said, according to ESPN.com's Scott Lauber. "Because he hit a lot of homers, a lot of RBI, he got on base a lot, and I like the way he plays. If I was a general manager, I want him on my team, because he plays the right way, and he's very humble."
Altuve added that Judge is deserving because of his well-rounded efforts. 
"He hits the ball way farther than anybody in the big leagues, all his homers," he said. "He plays good defense. He did everything to win the MVP in the regular season. But what I like the most about him is how humble he is."
Judge stitched together an unprecedented rookie season from a power perspective, as he shattered Mark McGwire's previous record and smashed an AL-best 52 home runs to go with 114 RBI. 
However, Judge also recorded a league-worst 208 strikeouts and was noticeably less efficient over the second half of the season. 
Despite surging in September with 15 home runs and 32 RBI, Judge slashed .228/.391/.548 after the All-Star break compared to a line of .329/.448/.691 prior to the Midsummer Classic. 
In the field, Judge was good for nine defensive runs saved and a UZR of 6.1, according to FanGraphs. 
Altuve, meanwhile, was the most consistent player in baseball this season. 
Appearing in 153 games, the five-time All-Star batted an MLB-best .346, tied his career high with 24 home runs and drove in 81 runs. He also recorded 32 stolen bases and struck out just 84 times while registering a career-high slugging percentage of .957. 
The 27-year-old's fielding measures (three defensive runs saved, -1.9 UZR) weren't as impressive, but he made up for it with steadier brilliance at the plate for the American League West champions. 
Now up 1-0 over the Yankees in the ALCS following Friday night's 2-1 win, the Astros will hope Altuve can replicate his 3-for-4 Game 1 showing Saturday as Houston eyes a 2-0 lead and its first AL pennant since 2005. 



The Houston Astros defeated the New York Yankees 2-1 in Game 1 of the American League Championship Series on Friday night at Minute Maid Park behind a gem from starting pitcher Dallas Keuchel. 
In seven scoreless innings, Keuchel scattered four hits and struck out 10 before closer Ken Giles, who came on for five outs, surrendered a towering solo blast to Greg Bird in the top of the ninth inning.
According to ESPN.com's Jerry Crasnick, Keuchel joined Nolan Ryan and Mike Scott as the only pitchers in franchise history to tally at least 10 punchouts in a postseason game.          
It was more of the same for the southpaw, who has owned the Yankees since his major league debut in 2012. Specifically, the 2015 American League Cy Young Award winner entered Friday's showdown 4-2 with a 1.41 ERA and 45 strikeouts and six walks in 44.2 regular-season innings against the Bronx Bombers. 
MLB.com's Andrew Simon noted Keuchel's slider was particularly nasty in the opening tilt:  
The Yankees are flailing away against Dallas Keuchel. Lots of chased sliders. https://t.co/JDGqZffMPy
With Keuchel in complete control, the Astros didn't need much run support to feel comfortable about their chances. That was good because Yankees starter Masahiro Tanaka was rather sharp in his own right. 
Over six innings, Tanaka allowed four hits and recorded three strikeouts. 
However, the right-hander encountered trouble in the bottom of the fourth inning when Jose Altuve (3-for-4) followed an infield single by stealing second base, which opened the door for Carlos Correa to drive him home with a base knock through the left side, as Fox Sports MLB documented: 
The @astros take the lead!

Carlos Correa delivers a RBI single scoring Jose Altuve for the 1-0 lead.  https://t.co/yNBZcAoKql
Two batters later, Yuli Gurriel followed Correa's lead and pushed the shortstop across the plate to give Houston a 2-0 lead. 
The Yankees had a chance to counter when they had two runners on with no outs in the fifth inning, but left fielder Marwin Gonzalez denied Bird's attempt to scurry home off an Aaron Judge single with a laser, via MLB on Twitter: 
.@astros needed a perfect throw. @marwinGF9 delivered. #ALCS https://t.co/43evr8zMFP
New York put two on again in the top of the eighth inning, which set the stage for Didi Gregorius to play hero once more. But unlike Game 5 of the American League Division Series against the Cleveland Indians, the pinstriped shortstop was denied as Giles set him down swinging to squash the threat. 
The Yankees crept closer in the ninth thanks to Bird's moonshot, but the rally stopped there. 
The Baby Bombers will now turn their attention to Saturday's Game 2 (4:08 p.m. ET, Fox) in hopes of knotting the series at one win apiece before the scene shifts to the Bronx for Game 3 on Monday. 
But in order to do so, the Yankees will need their bats to come alive against Justin Verlander and hope starter Luis Severino avoids the form that hounded him in his disastrous wild-card outing against the Minnesota Twins. 



Major League Baseball couldn't have asked for a better start to the postseason.
The American and National League Division Series provided a ton of drama with a Game 5 in each league, and there's plenty of intrigue building up to the championship series in each league, starting with the ALCS Friday night. 
The four teams remaining in the postseason all bring unique qualities to the table, but one thing is for sure, the amount of excitement created by the New York Yankees, Houston Astros, Chicago Cubs and Los Angeles Dodgers heading into the next week of play is immense. 
                  
Live-Stream Schedule
ALCS (All games can be streamed on Fox Sports Go)
Game 1: Yankees at Astros (Friday, October 13, 8:08 p.m. ET) 
Game 2: Yankees at Astros (Saturday, October 14, 4:08 p.m. ET)
Game 3: Astros at Yankees (Monday, October 16, 8:08 p.m. ET)
Game 4: Astros at Yankees (Tuesday, October 17, TBD) 
Game 5 (if necessary): Astros at Yankees (Wednesday, October 18, TBD)
Game 6 (if necessary): Yankees at Astros (Friday, October 20, TBD) 
Game 7 (if necessary): Yankees at Astros (Saturday, October 21, TBD)
                
NLCS (All games can be streamed on the TBS app)
Game 1: Cubs at Dodgers (Saturday, October 14, 8:08 p.m. ET)
Game 2: Cubs at Dodgers (Sunday, October 15, 7:38 p.m. ET) 
Game 3: Dodgers at Cubs (Tuesday, October 17, TBD) 
Game 4: Dodgers at Cubs (Wednesday, October 18, TBD)
Game 5: Dodgers at Cubs (Thursday, October 19, TBD) 
Game 6: Cubs at Dodgers (Saturday, October 21, TBD) 
Game 7: Cubs at Dodgers (Sunday, October 22, TBD) 
                   
Predictions
Both the Astros and Dodgers come into the championship series on more rest than their counterparts, and it will be key to take advantage of that in their home ballparks.
The Astros' Game 1 starter, Dallas Keuchel, has been using Game 2 starter Justin Verlander as a resource to prepare for his big start at home, per Brian McTaggart of MLB.com: 
"I've bounced hundreds of questions off him already," Keuchel said of Verlander. "To have him over here is a sense of relief for everybody."
Astros manager A.J. Hinch is also excited for the series to begin, and he noted that Minute Maid Park will have an electric crowd Friday night, per McTaggart: 
"The environment is going to be crazy," Hinch said. "Bring your earplugs. Be ready."
As for the Dodgers, Clayton Kershaw will be taking the mound for Game 1 Saturday at Dodger Stadium against the Cubs. According to MLB.com's Ken Gurnick, Dodgers manager Dave Roberts will manage Kershaw accordingly with his historic seven-inning struggles in mind: 
Roberts said Kershaw's 7th-inning history in the playoffs shouldn't be discounted entirely, but decisions are based on how he's throwing.
The Yankees enter the ALCS in better shape than the Cubs do the NLCS even though both teams won thrilling five-game series on Wednesday and Thursday. New York got a terrific start out of CC Sabathia and was able to set its rotation through Game 4 for the ALCS, while Chicago used every man possible in Washington, D.C., on Thursday and now has to fly across the country for Saturday's Game 1. 
Despite those circumstances, both teams will be playing with less pressure than their opponents. The Yankees weren't expected to reach the postseason in 2017 and they've already recorded a big scalp by knocking off the Indians.
The Cubs lifted all the pressure off their shoulders in 2016 by winning the World Series, and with the Dodgers under pressure of their own to get to the World Series for the first time since 1988, the defending champions will be able to bank on their experience in big situations to get them out of a few extra jams, just like they did Thursday. 
Regardless of what occurs over the next week, we're certainly in for some terrific baseball between four of the best teams on the diamond this season. 
Predictions: Astros over Yankees in 6; Dodgers over Cubs in 6. 
                   
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90. 



Fact: Washington teams have failed to reach the championship series or conference championship in their last 28 playoff appearances. 
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: Bleacher Report 



The Chicago Cubs will barely have time to catch their breath, fly to Los Angeles and prepare for the National League Championship Series against the Dodgers after winning a heart-stopping division series against the Washington Nationals.
The Cubs emerged with a 9-8 victory in Game 5, and the win required the Cubs to rally against Washington ace Max Scherzer in the fifth inning and then get a seven-out save from closer Wade Davis.
"I've always known he's got a lot of mettle in his soul," said Ben Zobrist about Davis, per StatsAP. ''The guy just shows up. He's got ice in his veins.''
Wade Davis striking out Bryce Harper &amp; advance to their third straight NLCS is something beautiful. #FlyTheW https://t.co/AlZN4pXDUd
It was a thrilling victory, one as joyful for the Cubs as it was painful for the Nationals. But the next task is already at hand for the defending World Series champions as they square off in a best-of-7 series against the Los Angeles Dodgers.
Los Angeles was a dominant team through the first three-quarters of the season. As the Dodgers moved through August, it appeared they were on track to win 110 games or more. However, they hit a significant roadblock in the latter stages of the month. The Dodgers lost 16 of 17 games at one stretch and came limping into the postseason.
They appeared quite vulnerable as they entered the division series against the Arizona Diamondbacks. They had been swept in back-to-back series by Arizona during their end-of-season slump, but the Dodgers quickly put that behind them and swept the Diamondbacks out of the playoffs.
The first game of the series between the Dodgers and Cubs will get underway Saturday in Los Angeles. Here's a look at the series schedule:
   
National League Championship Series
Game 1: Chicago at Los Angeles, 8 p.m., TBS, Oct. 14
Game 2: Chicago at Los Angeles, 7:30 p.m., TBS, Oct. 15
Game 3: Los Angeles at Chicago, TBD. TBS, Oct. 17
Game 4: Los Angeles at Chicago, TBD, TBS, Oct. 18
Game 5: Los Angeles at Chicago, TBD, TBS, Oct. 19 (if necessary)
Game 6: Chicago at Los Angeles, TBD, TBS, Oct. 21 (if necessary)
Game 7: Chicago at Los Angeles, TBD, TBS, Oct. 22 (if necessary)
The @Dodgers break out the bats early!

@redturn2 crushes a 3-run shot to left in the 1st! #NLDS https://t.co/3XtFVOt7Uw
Justin Turner hit .462 for the Dodgers in the Arizona series with one home run and five RBI, while Yasiel Puig hit .455 with four RBI.
The Dodgers will have ace Clayton Kershaw ready and prepared to take the mound in Game 1, and that's an enigmatic situation. Kershaw is clearly one of the top three pitchers in Major League Baseball, and an excellent case can be made that he is No. 1 over the likes of Washington's Scherzer and Chris Sale of the Boston Red Sox. However, his playoff record is not up to that level.
Kershaw has a 5-7 career postseason record with a 4.67 earned-run average. He earned a victory in Game 1 against the Diamondbacks, but he gave up four home runs in 6.1 innings and his 5.68 ERA in that series demonstrates he is not over his postseason issues.
The Cubs hit .180 as a team in their series against the Nationals, but Anthony Rizzo drove in six runs, while Addison Russell added four RBI. Kris Bryant hopes to turn things around after hitting .200 against the Nationals and striking out 10 times in 20 at-bats.
The Dodgers lost to the Cubs in six games in last year's NLCS, but manager Dave Roberts says this year's team has gained increased confidence.
"Our guys this year, as they were last year, are focused," Roberts said, per Ken Gurnick of MLB.com. "It does help when you're the winningest team from this year and we've showed how good we can be when we play our brand of baseball. We're a confident group, and understand we still have a lot of work to do."
The Dodgers are minus-185 favorites to win the NLCS and advance to the World Series, while the Cubs are plus-160 underdogs according to OddsShark.

   
Prediction
The Dodgers appear to have gotten over their brutal late-season tailspin, and the team appears ready for the challenge of the Cubs.
The Dodgers are rested, talented and motivated, while the Cubs have proved their resiliency throughout the last three playoff seasons. They have shown they will fight hard and figure things out even if they are not playing their best baseball.
This series has the look of a seven-game classic, and the Dodgers are not going to let this one get away. They have not played in the World Series since 1988, but this is their time.
Closer Kenley Jansen is basically unhittable, and he will finish off the defending champions in the ninth inning of Game 7. 
This will be another excruciating series, and the Dodgers will earn the victory.



Not even 48 hours after the New York Yankees completed their American League Division Series comeback against the Cleveland Indians, they'll be on the field to take on the Houston Astros in Game 1 of the American League Championship Series. 
It's a grind for any team, but by the time they arrived in Houston, the ALDS was behind the Yankees. As for the Astros, they come into Friday's Game 1 at Minute Maid Park on plenty of rest after winning their series against the Boston Red Sox on Monday in four games. 
It may seem like a major difference, but anything is possible in postseason baseball, and as long as you're prepared for the seven-game series from the start, you're in good shape to advance to the World Series. 
                
Coverage Info
Game 1: Yankees at Astros (Friday, October 13, 8:08 p.m. ET, FS1) 
Game 2: Yankees at Astros (Saturday, October 14, 4:08 p.m. ET, FOX) 
Game 3: Astros at Yankees (Monday, October 16, 8:08 p.m. ET, FS1) 
Game 4: Astros at Yankees (Tuesday, October 17, Time TBD, FOX/FS1) 
Game 5 (if necessary): Astros at Yankees (Wednesday, October 18, Time TBD, FOX/FS1)
Game 6 (if necessary): Yankees at Astros (Friday, October 20, Time TBD, FOX/FS1) 
Game 7 (if necessary): Yankees at Astros (Saturday, October 21, Time TBD, FOX. FS1) 
                   
Odds Guide (via OddsShark)
Game 1 Odds: Astros -175, Yankees +165
                   
Analysis
Houston seems to have the upper hand entering Game 1 with Dallas Keuchel leading the charge on the mound. The southpaw has a 0.96 ERA in three postseason starts in Houston, and he put together a strong outing of 5.2 innings in Game 2 of the ALCS against the Red Sox. 
Masahiro Tanaka, who shined in Game 3 of the ALDS against the Indians, will oppose Keuchel. Tanaka isn't necessarily the best option for the Yankees, especially with his struggles on the road this season, but with the other starters in the rotation working back to full rest, he's the go-to guy for Game 1.
The Yankees have already lined up their starters through Game 4, with Luis Severino, CC Sabathia and Sonny Gray following Tanaka, per Bryan Hoch of MLB.com. 
Your #Yankees rotation for the #ALCS:
Game 1: Masahiro Tanaka
Game 2: Luis Severino
Game 3: CC Sabathia
Game 4: Sonny Gray
Houston hasn't made that many decisions yet, but it has chosen Justin Verlander to pitch in Game 2 at home against Severino. Verlander has been impeccable on the mound since joining the Astros from the Tigers at the end of August, and he tossed six strong innings in Game 1 of the ALDS against Boston. 
The focus on the offenses will shine brightly on the MVP candidates in both dugouts who had contrasting ALDS performances. Jose Altuve hit for a .533 average in four games against the Red Sox with three home runs and four RBI. On the other hand, Aaron Judge struck out in 16 of his 20 at-bats versus the Indians.

Of course, the series won't just be decided by the stars on each roster. Look for experienced leadoff man Brett Gardner to set the tone in multiple games by putting together tough at-bats against the Houston pitching staff. In the bullpen, Chad Green could be the X-factor as he bridges the gap to David Robertson, Dellin Betances and Aroldis Chapman, or fills in for one of the relievers in a critical spot. 
With all of the attention on Altuve, Carlos Correa and George Springer, look for someone like Marwin Gonzalez to step up in the ALCS for the Astros. Gonzalez only hit .200 in the ALDS, but he'll get more pitches to hit than those further up the lineup and a clutch hit or two could turn the tide of the series. 
The ALCS is going to be close, but if the Astros can start strong behind Keuchel and Verlander, they could be able to take one game from Yankee Stadium and come home with a chance to clinch a World Series berth in Game 6. 
Prediction: Astros in 6.
               
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90.
All statistics obtained from Baseball Reference.



This year's free-agent class in Major League Baseball is like the calm before the impending storm set to hit in the winter of 2018 when Bryce Harper and Manny Machado headline one of the most star-studded groups of all time. 
It's important to mention next year when thinking of this winter because there will likely be teams who hold off on making a big-money offer to, say, J.D. Martinez with the hope they can make an offer to get in on Harper. 
That is what makes some of the under-the-radar gems in the 2017 free-agent class so important. Teams will still be seeking upgrades, there will be money to spend, and finding a relative bargain is more valuable than ever. 
Here are the latest rumors about some of the underrated free-agent standouts this winter and where they could end up. 
             
CC Sabathia, Starting Pitcher

CC Sabathia has likely earned some extra money on his next contract with 14 strikeouts and four earned runs in two American League Division Series games against the Cleveland Indians. 
Per Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports, the New York Yankees do want to bring Sabathia back but just "on a one-year deal, if possible."
Masahiro Tanaka could be the bigger concern for the Yankees if he decides to opt out of his contract. The right-hander didn't have a banner 2017 with a 4.74 ERA and 35 homers allowed in 178.1 innings, but he got hot at the right time with 15 strikeouts in his final regular-season start against the Toronto Blue Jays and seven shutout innings against the Indians in Game 3 of the ALDS. 
The Yankees may have some leverage if they only want Sabathia back for 2018. He's 37 years old and is no longer as durable as he was during his prime years, making just 30 starts in a season once since 2014. His 148.2 innings pitched in 2017 was his lowest total ever in a season which he's made at least 27 starts. 
There's also the allure for Sabathia of staying in New York and playing with a talented young team that figures to remain in the playoff mix for a long time to come. 
                    
Eric Hosmer, First Baseman

The Kansas City Royals figure to be the team hit hardest by free agency with Eric Hosmer, Mike Moustakas and Lorenzo Cain poised to earn big multi-year deals. 
Among that trio, Hosmer could be the one Kansas City prioritizes and makes a significant offer to keep around. 
Per Heyman, the Royals will be "willing to make a serious offer (presumably $100 million plus)" with the hopes of enticing Hosmer to stay. 
Hosmer does have long-term ties to the Royals, who drafted him third overall in 2008 and developed him into an All-Star first baseman. He was a key piece in their two-year playoff run in 2014-15 that resulted in the franchise winning a World Series title in 2015. 
The problem for Kansas City is Hosmer's coming off a career year in 2017 with a .318/.385/.498 slash line and tied his career high with 25 home runs. It also hurts that his agent is Scott Boras, who is a master at negotiating the biggest possible deal for his clients.
Heyman did list the Yankees and Boston Red Sox as potential suitors, though Greg Bird's late-season surge has likely earned him favor in New York. The Red Sox will need an upgrade at first base with Mitch Moreland set to become a free agent and Hanley Ramirez likely limited to designated-hitter duties. 
The Royals tried to make one more playoff run with their talented trio in 2017, instead of trading any of them for future assets in July at the deadline. It didn't pay off and the risk is a long-term rebuild with maybe all three of Hosmer, Cain and Moustakas leaving. 
Hosmer may be Kansas City's preferred choice to stay by making him a long-term offer, but the odds are stacked against the Royals in getting him to accept. 
                
Greg Holland, Closer

After missing the entire 2016 season recovering from Tommy John surgery, Greg Holland had a terrific comeback campaign in 2017 as a member of the Colorado Rockies. 
The 31-year-old tied for the National League lead with 41 saves, posted a 3.61 ERA in 61 games and had 70 strikeouts in 57.1 innings with the Rockies. 
Because of Holland's success last season, Heyman reported he's going to leave a $15 million option for 2018 with the goal of securing a big long-term contract. 
"Word is, with the new emphasis on the bullpen, (Boras) believes it's time for an explosion of salaries for bullpen stars," Heyman wrote.
Boras and Holland are taking a significant risk with this move. Holland's overall performance in 2017 was strong, but he was bad in the second half with a 6.38 ERA and 1.333 WHIP in 24 innings. 
With Holland having already undergone Tommy John surgery and being over the age of 30, finding a team to invest multiple years with an average salary in the neighborhood of the $15 million he will reportedly leave on the table seems like a stretch. 
The biggest thing working in Holland's favor is he does have the proven closer label attached to his name, and desperate teams seeking help in the back of their bullpen may be inclined to pay extra for his past performance instead of what he will do in the future. 



If the wild-card New York Yankees coming back from down 0-2 in their series with a Cleveland Indians team that went 33-4 to close out the regular season taught us anything, it's that trying to predict the MLB postseason is a fool's errand.
I guess that makes me a fool.
With the American League Championship Series set to begin Friday night and the NLCS getting underway Saturday, it's time for some updated predictions on how the rest of the postseason will play out.

Projected Pitching Matchups
Game 1: Masahiro Tanaka (13-12, 4.74 ERA) vs. Dallas Keuchel (14-5, 2.90 ERA)
Game 2: Luis Severino (14-6, 2.98 ERA) vs. Justin Verlander (15-8, 3.36 ERA)
Game 3: Brad Peacock (13-2, 3.00 ERA) vs. CC Sabathia (14-5, 3.69 ERA)
Game 4: Charlie Morton (14-7, 3.62 ERA) vs. Sonny Gray (10-12, 3.55 ERA)
      
Series Overview
The memory of the Astros eliminating the Yankees in the 2015 Wild Card Game is still fresh in the memories of both fanbases heading into this matchup.
The Astros took the season series 5-2 and they'll have Dallas Keuchel on the mound in Game 1.
Keuchel threw six scoreless innings in that 2015 play-in game to earn the victory and he boasts a 1.41 ERA and 0.81 WHIP in 44.2 career innings against the Yankees.
"There's an artistry to how Dallas pitches," manager A.J. Hinch told Jerry Crasnick of ESPN. "There's a competitiveness between him and the hitter. Some people will call it a cat-and-mouse game. He's a tremendous competitor. He's very smart on the mound. He's very under control while intense. And with any game plan, he can adjust on the fly and continue to get outs."
Can he prove to be the Yankees' kryptonite once again?
On the other side, the Yankees made the somewhat surprising decision to push Sonny Gray to Game 4, meaning he'll go 11 days between starts.
With Masahiro Tanaka coming off a brilliant start in Game 3 of the ALDS and Luis Severino turning in a solid follow-up performance to his rough Wild Card Game outing, the Yankees look to have a strong one-two punch of their own to counter Keuchel and Justin Verlander.
Both of these teams can pile up runs. The Astros led the majors with 5.53 runs per game and the Yankees were not far behind in second at 5.30 per contest.
If it turns into a battle of the bullpens, the Yankees have an incredibly deep relief corps, but don't underestimate Chris Devenski and Joe Musgrove as multi-inning weapons for Houston.
      
Prediction
Astros in 6; Dallas Keuchel wins ALCS MVP

Projected Pitching Matchups
Game 1: John Lackey (12-12, 4.59 ERA) vs. Clayton Kershaw (18-4, 2.31 ERA)
Game 2: Jose Quintana (11-11, 4.15 ERA) vs. Rich Hill (12-8, 3.32 ERA)
Game 3: Yu Darvish (10-12, 3.86 ERA) vs. Jon Lester (13-8, 4.33 ERA)
Game 4: Alex Wood (16-3, 2.72 ERA) vs. Kyle Hendricks (7-5, 3.03 ERA)
     
Series Overview
The Dodgers enter the NLCS with a distinct advantage having swept their way through the Division Series.
"Being able to set your rotation, not having to travel the first two games of the series, I think they're huge advantages," manager Dave Roberts told reporters. "That's the byproduct of having the season that we had."
Meanwhile, the Cubs used Jake Arrieta (90 pitches) and Jon Lester (55 pitches) on Wednesday and Kyle Hendricks (81 pitches) and Jose Quintana (12 pitches) on Thursday, so it could be veteran John Lackey who takes the ball in Game 1.
The Dodgers won the season series 4-2 with a plus-11 run differential, and the sting of last year's NLCS should give them plenty of added motivation—as if that were needed in October.
It's worth noting, the Cubs had a .777 OPS against left-handed pitching this season, good for seventh-best in the majors. They'll be facing three southpaws in the L.A. rotation.
As for the Dodgers, home-field advantage means a lot after they went an MLB-best 57-24 at home during the regular season.
Both teams have been shaky at times bridging the gap from starter to closer, and this series could be all about who can make an early lead stand up.
      
Prediction
Cubs in 7; Wade Davis wins NLCS MVP

Flashback to the 2014 season.
The Cubs had just wrapped up their third season with Theo Epstein pulling the strings in the front office and had another last-place finish to show for it, having gone 73-89.
Meanwhile, the Astros managed to snap a string of three straight seasons with 100-plus losses, but they were still far from contention at 70-92, good for fourth in the AL West.
The following season, both teams finally reached the postseason as their long rebuilding efforts started to bear fruit.
An Astros vs. Cubs matchup in the World Series—just three seasons after they were both also-rans—would essentially be a public service announcement on the right way to rebuild a franchise from the ground up.
Both teams have dynamic young offensive cores and a healthy mix of veteran talent to keep things on track in the clubhouse.
Javier Baez (.796 OPS, 23 HR, 75 RBI) and Marwin Gonzalez (.907 OPS, 23 HR, 90 RBI) both batted eighth in Division Series games if that paints a better picture of the depth of both lineups.
The Astros have an edge with their dual aces atop the rotation, but the Cubs probably have a deeper starting staff after Charlie Morton and Brad Peacock both looked shaky in the ALDS.
Wade Davis is a more reliable option in the ninth inning, but the Astros have a better relief corps overall, especially with Carl Edwards Jr. struggling for the North Siders.
It's as well-balanced a matchup as you could ever ask for and one we could see more than a few times in the years to come.
October baseball at its finest.
       
Prediction
Astros in 6; Carlos Correa wins World Series MVP
       
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, unless otherwise noted.



The New York Yankees will try to continue their remarkable run through the postseason when they visit the Houston Astros as large road underdogs for Game 1 of the American League Championship Series on Friday.
The Yankees are coming off an upset of the top-seeded Cleveland Indians in the AL Division Series, winning the last three games after losing the first two.
Betting line: The Astros opened as -175 favorites (wager $175 to win $100); the total is at 8.5 runs, according to sportsbooks monitored by OddsShark. (Line updates and matchup report)
MLB betting pick, via OddsShark computer: 4.4-4.0, Astros (MLB picks on every game)
       
Why the Yankees can pay on the MLB lines
New York is not facing any pressure in this spot, and that seemed to help the team in the last round vs. Cleveland, too. The young Yankees are not supposed to be here, although their confidence should be at an all-time high after taking out the Indians.
In Game 1, they will send righthander Masahiro Tanaka (13-12, 4.74 ERA) to the mound looking for his second win this postseason. Tanaka was great in winning his first start against the Indians, pitching seven scoreless innings with one walk and seven strikeouts.
        
Why the Astros can pay on the MLB lines
The Astros are favored to win their first pennant since 2005 because they are the better team in this matchup. They have arguably the best player in baseball in second baseman Jose Altuve, who is an overwhelming favorite to win AL MVP. Altuve hit .533 with three home runs and four RBI in four games against the Boston Red Sox in the ALDS, and he also walked four times in 15 at-bats.
In addition, Houston has ace Dallas Keuchel (14-5, 2.90) going to the hill in the series opener, and he is a superior pitcher to Tanaka.
      
Smart betting pick
The Astros won five of the seven regular-season meetings, with three of those decided by three runs or more. Keuchel was also dominant in his one start against New York back on May 11, allowing only one unearned run and five hits in six innings with one walk and nine strikeouts.
That outing was on the road as well, and he went 6-3 with a 2.26 ERA at home during the regular season. Look for Houston to win the series opener easily by at least two runs.
     
MLB betting trends
New York is 17-7 in its last 24 games.
Houston is 9-2 in its last 11 games.
Houston is 6-2 in its last eight games when playing New York.
   
All MLB odds and betting trends courtesy of Bleacher Report’s official odds partner, OddsShark. All quotes gathered firsthand unless otherwise noted. Check out Twitter for injury and line-movement updates and the OddsShark YouTube page for picks and analysis, or download the free odds tracker app.



The MLB Wild Card Games and Division Series are over, and four teams are left vying to be crowned the 2017 World Series champion.
Each postseason gives us memorable individual performances as players perform at their best under the bright lights.
We've put together a ranking of the five biggest October stars so far.
The only caveat was that players had to come from a team that is still alive in the postseason, so guys like Stephen Strasburg and Rafael Devers settled for honorable mentions.

Arizona Diamondbacks
The pitching that was such a major strength for the Arizona Diamondbacks during the regular season proved to be their undoing in a three-game sweep at the hands of the Los Angeles Dodgers in the NLDS.
Shortstop Ketel Marte went 3-for-5 with two triples in the NL Wild Card Game and finished up his first trip to the postseason at 7-for-17, adding a home run off Clayton Kershaw in Game 1. He'll be a popular breakout pick heading into 2018 after a strong finish to the regular season as well.
Fans in Arizona won't soon forget the two-run triple off the bat of reliever Archie Bradley in the Wild Card Game, so he deserves a mention here too.
     
Boston Red Sox
Rookie third baseman Rafael Devers was 4-for-11 with two home runs and five RBI in his first taste of postseason action, while Hanley Ramirez was 8-for-14 with two doubles after not getting the start in Game 1 of the ALDS.
Fellow rookie Andrew Benintendi hit a big two-run homer off Justin Verlander in the fifth inning of Game 4 to briefly gave the Boston Red Sox a 3-2 lead.
The starting pitchers struggled mightily, but David Price kept things interesting with 6.2 scoreless innings in a pair of relief appearances.
       
Cleveland Indians
The Cleveland Indians were viewed by many—myself included—as the favorites to win it all heading into the playoffs.
The upstart New York Yankees ensured that didn't happen.
Jay Bruce swung the biggest stick, going 5-for-18 with one double and two home runs as he continued to make his case for a big free-agent contract.
Meanwhile, it was Trevor Bauer who turned in the best start of anyone in the vaunted rotation, allowing just two hits while striking out eight in 6.2 scoreless innings in Game 1 of the ALDS. He didn't make it out of the second inning in Game 4, though.
      
Colorado Rockies
Catcher Jonathan Lucroy was 2-for-3 with two doubles in the Wild Card Game, while both Trevor Story and Nolan Arenado went deep.
Lefty Chris Rusin also provided 2.1 innings of scoreless relief after starter Jon Gray lasted just 1.1 innings, which was nothing new for a guy who posted a 2.65 ERA over 85 innings of relief work during the regular season.
       
Minnesota Twins
Brian Dozier and Eddie Rosario both homered in the first inning of an unbelievable AL Wild Card Game, briefly giving the Twins a 3-0 lead.
However, the Yankees bullpen clamped down from there, allowing just five hits and one run while striking out 13 over the final 8.2 innings.
      
Washington Nationals
If we're naming an LDS MVP, it's probably Stephen Strasburg.
Stepping into the role of Game 1 and Game 4 starter with Max Scherzer hobbled, he dominated the Chicago Cubs lineup over 14 innings of work, striking out 22 and allowing just six hits and two runs—both unearned.
Center fielder Michael A. Taylor also deserves a mention, as he hit the decisive grand slam in Game 4 of the NLDS and finished the series 5-for-15 with two homers and an LDS-high eight RBI.

In a postseason that's seen more than a few early exits from marquee starting pitchers, the bullpens of the remaining teams deserve a quick mention.
Kenley Jansen converted both of his save chances in the Dodgers' three-game sweep of the D-backs, allowing two hits and one unearned run in 3.2 innings of work. Setup man Brandon Morrow also worked 3.2 innings and recorded a pair of holds.
Despite allowing an inside-the-park home run to Rafael Devers, Astros closer Ken Giles managed to convert his only save chance in the decisive Game 4 of the ALDS. Starters Justin Verlander and Lance McCullers were both asked to chip in out of the bullpen in that series as well.
While Carl Edwards Jr. has had a rough go of it for the Cubs, closer Wade Davis nailed down three saves in the NLDS, including a seven-out, 44-pitch performance to slam the door in Game 5 against the Nationals on Thursday night.
Finally, there's the Yankees bullpen, which worked a whopping 28.2 innings in five games against the Indians, allowing just 15 hits and seven earned runs while striking out 42. Aroldis Chapman had a pair of saves, including the final six outs of Game 5.

Stats: 3 G, 6-for-13, 1 HR, 5 RBI, 1 R, 1 BB
A three-game sweep of the Diamondbacks didn't give anyone on the Dodgers much time to build a strong case, but third baseman Justin Turner has the best resume.
The 32-year-old proved to be worth every penny of his four-year, $64 million extension during the regular season, as he hit .322 with a .945 OPS and 5.7 WAR while earning his first trip to the All-Star Game.
He had a huge Game 1 of the NLDS, going 3-for-4 with a home run and five RBI in a 9-5 victory. He went on to tally three more hits in the final two games of the series.
Batting in the No. 3 spot in the Dodgers lineup, sandwiched comfortably between Corey Seager and Cody Bellinger, he should have plenty of chances to play the hero this October.
For now, he's the best individual performer on a Dodgers team that made short work of the Division Series.

Stats: 5 G, 4-for-20, 1 2B, 1 HR, 6 RBI, 1 R
The Cubs only scored 17 runs in five games against the Nationals in the NLDS.
Anthony Rizzo drove in six of them.
"I want to make guys pay," he told reporters. "I hit where I hit in the order. I drive in runs, and that's just the mentality that I always take in."
His blooper to left center field in the ninth inning of Game 3 wasn't a majestic shot by any stretch of the imagination, but it brought in what proved to be the game-winning run in a 2-1 victory.
That effectively swung the momentum back in the Cubs' favor after a tough loss in Game 2.
After hitting just .225 with five RBI in 10 games through the first two rounds of the playoffs last season, he's made a much bigger impact already hitting out of the No. 3 spot in the lineup.

Stats: 1 GS, W, 7.0 IP, 3 H, 0 ER, 1 BB, 7 K
As his team faced elimination in Game 3 of the ALDS, Masahiro Tanaka took the ball and turned in his most important start in a Yankees jersey.
"He was brilliant," manager Joe Girardi told reporters after the game.
Indeed he was, allowing three hits over seven scoreless innings and needing every bit of that dominance in what wound up being a 1-0 victory.
That stellar outing came after a rather inauspicious September that included a pair of starts in which he allowed seven earned runs.
Tanaka's performance earned him the Game 1 start against the Houston Astros in the ALCS.
He faced them once during the regular season on May 14, allowing seven hits and eight earned runs in 1.2 innings, so he has a few more demons to exorcise as he looks to keep things rolling in October.

Stats: 6 G, 5-for-20, 3 HR, 6 RBI, 4 R, 7 BB
Didi Gregorius might be hitting just .250 this postseason, but he's reached base 12 times in 27 plate appearances, and he provided all the offense the Yankees needed in the decisive Game 5 of the ALDS.
The 27-year-old slugged a career-high 25 home runs during the regular season, moving into the cleanup spot in the lineup down the stretch as one of the team's most consistent run producers.
He hit a three-run homer in the bottom of the first in the Wild Card Game, countering a three-run top of the inning from the Twins in the process.
Then he went deep twice off potential AL Cy Young winner Corey Kluber in the must-win game of the ALDS, driving in three to give the Yankees an early lead in their eventual 5-2 victory.
"Didi's at-bats have been great all year," Girardi told reporters. "He drove in almost 90 runs and missed a month of the season. It's pretty remarkable, the season that he's had for us."
He was my pre-postseason pick to be the dark-horse hero for the Yankees in October, and he's delivered.

Stats: 4 G, 8-for-15, 3 HR, 4 RBI, 5 R, 4 BB
It's only been four games, but Jose Altuve has made an indelible impression on the 2017 postseason.
The diminutive second baseman became just the ninth player in MLB history to record a three-homer game in the postseason when he took the Boston Red Sox deep three times in Game 1 of the ALDS.
The rest of that list, per David Adler of MLB.com:
Kennedy probably takes the prize for least likely to be included, as he recorded his trio after a seven-homer regular season over 509 plate appearances and hitting out of the No. 9 spot in the then-Anaheim Angels lineup.
Still, Altuve is hungry for more.
"The five-whatever I hit last series is already gone," he told reporters. "It doesn't count for this series. So if someone asks me, 'What is your batting average right now?' I would say, 'It's zero.' I haven't got a hit in the next series, so that's the way I think right now."
He has as good a foundation as anyone to be the standout performer of the 2017 postseason and will look to keep swinging a hot bat against the Yankees in the ALCS.
        
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.



Following a brief postseason interlude, MLB's hot stove will once again open for business.
The rumor mill remained in operation until the last possible moment this summer as the Houston Astros finalized a deal for Justin Verlander late on Aug. 31. Instead of dominating offseason gossip, the ace will look to lead Houston to its first World Series since relocating to the American League.
While the late transaction eliminated a major winter storyline, several other big names—most notably Giancarlo Stanton—could still change places.
Both teams fighting for the AL pennant after midseason acquisitions have the reinforcements to strike again. Other squads stuck amid contention and rebuilding must choose a course.  
Whether they're buyers, sellers or somewhere in between, these 10 franchises have the pieces to reshape MLB before 2018's Opening Day. As a result, expect them to be at the center of offseason trade chatter.

The Atlanta Braves must first find a new general manager after John Coppolella resigned amid an investigation of his breaking international free-agent protocol. Whoever takes his seat will inherit a terrific situation.
Even after promoting Ozzie Albies, the Braves boast MLB's premier farm system in the eyes of Bleacher Report's Joel Reuter. Eight players, led by 19-year-old outfielder Ronald Acuna, are featured in MLB.com's top-100 prospect rankings.
Because of their stacked minor league reservoir, the Braves constantly appeared in midseason trade speculation regarding cost-controlled starting pitchers. They were conversely "very open" to fielding offers for struggling starter Julio Teheran, as reported by ESPN.com's Buster Olney in July. 
A new general manager's agenda may of course differ from Coppolella's plan. Perhaps the new hire will clear the cupboard to build a contender around Albies, Freddie Freeman and Ender Inciarte. Or maybe the successor, realizing Acuna and others need more time, will try to dump Matt Kemp and Nick Markakis.
Either way, Atlanta will become one of the winter's most interesting organizations to watch once it chooses a GM replacement. 

After snagging Verlander right before the deadline to maintain postseason eligibility, the Astros may feel comfortable standing pat this winter.
Their newly acquired ace will stick around for two more seasons with a $28 million annual salary. Even if free agents Carlos Beltran and Evan Gattis sign elsewhere, the Astros might prefer Derek Fisher's or Tyler White's earning a regular gig.  
But there's always room for improvement, especially if they don't capture the Commissioner's Trophy this fall.
Despite surrendering Franklin Perez, Daz Cameron and Jake Rogers to Detroit, Houston still wields a well-stocked farm system. Leveraging it for another star might be necessary as an arms race unfolds among MLB's developing powerhouses.
Speculation surfaced over the Astros' acquiring a high-leverage reliever at the deadline, but they instead snagged Francisco Liriano. With Luke Gregerson's contract expiring, they may want to revisit talks for Zach Britton or Brad Hand.
The Astros don't have any major weaknesses. Retaining Gregerson as well as Beltran or Gattis—or signing free-agent replacements of similar value—would be more than enough for the team to maintain its positioning as an AL West favorite and a top World Series contender.
If the Astros want to bolster their 2018 odds, the opportunity is there. 

The Miami Marlins outfielders, particularly Stanton, will dominate trade speculation throughout the offseason.
A 59-homer season from Stanton lifted the franchise to just 77 victories. Now new ownership must decide whether it can afford the superstar, whose salary jumps to $25 million next season.
Derek Jeter guarded his plans when speaking to reporters earlier this month, per ESPN.com, but he acknowledged the franchise's need for operational change.
"We do have to rebuild the organization," Jeter said. "It starts with player development and scouting. We will build it from top down and bottom up."
Christian Yelich and Marcell Ozuna won't hemorrhage Miami's finances, but they would both draw considerable trade interest if available. Ozuna enjoyed a breakout year with 37 home runs and a .924 OPS. As former general manager Jim Bowden told the Miami Herald's Barry Jackson, the 26-year-old would draw massive appeal as someone who can't explore free agency until 2020.
"You would get a better return for Ozuna than Stanton because you don't have to worry about the money issue," Bowden said. "Plus, he can’t control his destiny [because he has no no-trade clause]. Teams would line up for Ozuna. There would be an open bidding war. An open bidding war gets you more than a closed one. He's such a great player."
Yelich, meanwhile, is 25 and has finished each of the last two seasons with 4.5 WAR, per FanGraphs. He will make $43.3 million through the next four years.
Dee Gordon, Justin Bour and Dan Straily would also garner considerable interest if Jeter orchestrates another Marlins fire sale. Without knowing how he plans to proceed, everyone must monitor the Marlins' every step.

In contention sooner than anticipated, the Milwaukee Brewers cautiously dipped one foot into the trade waters. Rather than mortgaging a calculated rebuild, they acquired pending free agents Anthony Swarzak and Neil Walker for little cost.
After going 86-76, Milwaukee will no longer enter 2018 as the scrappy underdog playing with house money. General manager David Stearns will instead be expected to put the finishing touches on his renovating project.
He should receive a larger budget for these fixes. The Brewers, who entered 2014 and 2015 with payrolls above $100 million, are committed only to Ryan Braun ($19 million) and Eric Thames (a huge bargain at $5 million) before arbitration and contract renewals.
Retaining Walker and Swarzak would heal wounds Stearns temporarily covered. Yet with Jimmy Nelson expected to miss part of 2018 after injuring his right shoulder in September, the Brewers also need a significant rotation upgrade.
Free agency won't offer a solution. Even if they open their pockets, they're not going to win a bidding war for Jake Arrieta or Yu Darvish. Lance Lynn or Alex Cobb won't be cheap either.
They will likely instead scour the trade market for cost-controlled hurlers, potentially Chris Archer if the Tampa Bay Rays shop their ace. If not, they can instead ask about Jake Odorizzi.
Stearns has the prospects to swing a blockbuster without sacrificing Lewis Brinson, as Reuter slotted the Brewers No. 5 in his latest farm rankings. Milwaukee no longer has the benefit of tempered expectations to play the offseason safe.

Despite an expected reluctance to weaken their fortified farm system, the New York Yankees acquired Todd Frazier, Tommy Kahnle, David Robertson and Sonny Gray in July. While the three pitchers here remain under contract for 2018, general manager Brian Cashman may have more moves up his sleeve.
The rotation will need work beyond Gray and Luis Severino, especially if Masahiro Tanaka enacts his opt-out clause and free agent CC Sabathia signs elsewhere. Although Gleyber Torres, Chance Adams and Estevan Florial will likely stay put, the farm system remains deep enough to seek another upgrade.
With Kahnle and Robertson in the bullpen, Cashman could get creative and dangle one of his many relievers. Dellin Betances would still fetch a big return despite his maddeningly inconsistent command.
Back in August, anyone would have laughed at the notion of a team showing interest in Jacoby Ellsbury, who will make over $21 million in each of the next two seasons. Unloading his salary to make room for Clint Frazier is still unlikely but at least plausible after the 34-year-old outfielder batted .337 in September.
For all the talk of the Bronx Bombers' blossoming ahead of schedule, the program has changed. Next year's star-studded free agency could compel them to avoid any significant signings, but that should only steer them to explore the trade market.

The Philadelphia Phillies have money and prospects. A 66-96 season should not necessarily deter them from augmenting their roster.
Having completed a long process of shedding bad contracts from a past regime, team president Andy MacPhail is in no rush to repeat the franchise's prior mistakes. As he explained after the season ended, per an Associated Press report via USA Today, he had the unusual task of convincing ownership not to spend money.
"My philosophy hasn't changed," MacPhail said. "There are times you have to dive into that pool, but it's not my favorite place to be. You don't want to pay for past performance."
Any fans expecting a free-agent spending spree will be sorely disappointed. With slim odds of jumping into the playoff picture next year, they are better served preserving their savings for next offseason's crop of available stars.
The trade market, however, could prove a different story.
Philadelphia maintains a flourishing farm after welcoming Rhys Hoskins to the majors. MacPhail won't chase rentals, but any young and affordable contributors should capture his attention.
He could even budge on the affordable part if Miami makes Stanton available, but Ozuna or Yelich would make a better fit.
The Marlins holding their stars—or declining to negotiate with a division competitor—could cause a quiet offseason for the Phillies. Yet they're waiting to leverage their resources when the opportunity arises.

The San Francisco Giants would have been major summer sellers if they had more players to sell.
Rather than blowing the team up after one bad year, the team who finished with the National League's worst record settled simply for trading pending free agent Eduardo Nunez. Their other possible marquee trade chip, Johnny Cueto, went on the disabled list weeks before the deadline.
Even if the Giants wanted to start from scratch, finding takers for Mark Melancon, Hunter Pence, Denard Span and Brandon Belt would be an arduous undertaking. One would assume Buster Posey and Madison Bumgarner are going nowhere.
Yet they could shop Jeff Samardzija, who has three years and $59.4 million left on his contract. That's not an outrageous price for a durable hurler coming off his third 200-strikeout campaign. 
Unless Cueto exercises his opt-out clause, an ill-advised choice after posting a career-worst 4.52 ERA in 2017, San Francisco can reignite a trade market dashed by his untimely blisters.
If Giants general manager Bobby Evans instead wants to preserve their even-year magic, he instead must scour the market for upgrades. Already committed to over $154 million next year before considering arbitration-eligible players, they should not address major needs at third base and center field by signing more expensive free agents.
Either way, the 2010, 2012 and 2014 champions must act now to avoid an ugly downward spiral.

As long as Jerry Dipoto is their general manager, the Seattle Mariners will be busy.
Lacking pitching for a playoff push, the hyperactive negotiator acquired David Phelps, Erasmo Ramirez, Marco Gonzales and Mike Leake. Their rotation would not have needed a major overhaul if offseason acquisition Drew Smyly did not get injured before Opening Day. He also gave up long-time prospect Taijuan Walker, who recorded a 3.49 ERA for the Arizona Diamondbacks.
For all his maneuvering, the Mariners have not made the playoffs since rookie Ichiro Suzuki led them to a record-setting 116 wins in 2001. With Robinson Cano (34) and Nelson Cruz (37) on the wrong end of the aging curve, they might have already bungled their best chance.
Dipoto faces a delicate situation this offseason. While summer moves and a healthy James Paxton bolster the starting staff, he now needs help at first base and center field. The clock is ticking on constructing a contender around Cano, Cruz and the declining Felix Hernandez.
One thing is for sure: He won't stay stagnant this winter. Expect the Mariners to once again rearrange the roster beyond their veteran core.

The St. Louis Cardinals will call if the Marlins make Giancarlo Stanton or one of their other star outfielders available.
Even if they have confidence in the 2017 breakouts from Tommy Pham, Paul DeJong and Jose Martinez, the Cardinals can use a marquee position player to better challenge the Chicago Cubs in 2018. A deep roster and compelling farm system gives them flexibility to seek an elite upgrade, especially from a pitching-needy team like Miami.
FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman identified St. Louis as the top candidate to snag one of MLB's home run leaders.
"They have a need for a middle-of-the-order bat, and importantly, the perfect mix of prospects to make a deal," Heyman wrote of the Cardinals. "They even have talented young pitchers the Marlins need, with Alex Reyes (who may be untouchable), plus Jack Flaherty, Luke Weaver and Sandy Alcantara, who really opened people’s eyes this year."
Marlins outfielders are not their only likely target. USA Today's Bob Nightengale said the Red Birds are "expected to strongly pursue" Toronto Blue Jays third baseman Josh Donaldson, who recovered from a lethargic start to belt 22 homers over his final 50 games. His contract expires after the 2018 season, so the Blue Jays should consider shopping the 2015 AL MVP to kick-start a necessary rebuild.
General manager Mike Girsch has the trade capital to make a major move, so St. Louis will be attached to any buzz surrounding available big-name bats this winter.

Are the Blue Jays ready to rebuild?
They lost Edwin Encarnacion last offseason. Now they plan on parting ways with Jose Bautista. Having finished 2017 with baseball's ninth-worst run differential (minus-91), they are trending downward in a hurry.
Don't count on Donaldson, Russell Martin, J.A. Happ and Marco Estrada—who all have one more year under contract—completing 2018 with the Blue Jays. The question is whether general manager Ross Atkins will wait until a subpar first half dictates an overhaul.
Toronto would demand every contender's attention by commencing the teardown this winter. In addition to those possible one-year rentals, the franchise could entertain offers for Justin Smoak following his 38-homer breakout. 
Suitors would inevitably line up for Marcus Stroman, but there's no rush to move the 26-year-old ace. Then again, most of the highlighted teams crave a young front-line starter. One may present a king's ransom for the righty, who registered a 3.09 ERA in 201 innings this year. 
While reality forces teams into selling every July, not as many franchises will wave the white flag during the winter. With few other organizations situated to wipe their slate clean, the Blue Jays should maximize their rebuild by beginning this offseason.
                  
All salary information obtained from Cot's Baseball Contracts.



Last year's World Series ended with arguably the most memorable game in baseball history, featuring an extra-inning rain delay and 108 years of frustration melting away.
This year's postseason may already be delivering more drama.
The same Chicago Cubs who won the title last year outlasted the Washington Nationals in Game 5 of the National League Division Series in white-knuckle fashion 9-8 thanks to a seven-out save from closer Wade Davis and seven straight runs after falling behind 4-1.
The New York Yankees lost the first two games in their American League Division Series against the Cleveland Indians and battled back to win the next three against the defending AL champs, who had the second-best record in the entire league.
The Bronx Bombers also rallied from an early 3-0 deficit against the Minnesota Twins in the AL Wild Card Game and used their bullpen to record every out but one.
It wasn't all dramatics, as the Los Angeles Dodgers and Houston Astros combined to lose a single game while dispatching the Arizona Diamondbacks and Boston Red Sox, respectively. But there promises to be plenty more thrills in the championship series.
Here is a look at the odds, schedule and a prediction for each series. The schedules are per MLB.com, while the World Series futures odds are according to OddsShark, as of Thursday at 12:30 a.m. ET.
              
American League Championship Series
Odds to Win World Series
Astros +225 (2.25-1)
Yankees +375 (3.75-1)
               
Schedule
Game 1: New York Yankees at Houston Astros; Friday Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. ET on FS1
Game 2: New York Yankees at Houston Astros; Saturday, Oct. 14 at 4 p.m. ET on Fox
Game 3: Houston Astros at New York Yankees; Monday, Oct. 16 at 8 p.m. on FS1
Game 4: Houston Astros at New York Yankees; Tuesday, Oct. 17 at TBD on Fox/FS1
Game 5*: Houston Astros at New York Yankees; Wednesday, Oct. 18 at TBD on Fox/FS1
Game 6*: New York Yankees at Houston Astros; Friday, Oct. 20 at TBD on Fox/FS1
Game 7*: New York Yankees at Houston Astros; Saturday, Oct. 21 at TBD on Fox/FS1
*If necessary
               
Prediction

Conventional wisdom suggests the Astros are going to win this series.
Not only do they get home-field advantage, but they were also 10 games better than the Yankees during the course of the regular season (101 wins to 91 wins). What's more, Houston's offense led Major League Baseball, with 896 runs, and mashed the Boston Red Sox for 24 runs in the four-game AL Division Series.
There is no shortage of firepower, with Jose Altuve, Carlos Correa, George Springer, Alex Bregman and more, and the trio of Justin Verlander, Dallas Keuchel and Lance McCullers atop the rotation should thrive with the proper run support.
However, the pick here is the Yankees.
The Bronx Bombers sport a formidable offense of their own and finished second in the league in runs this season, with 858. More importantly, their bullpen will allow manager Joe Girardi to shorten games against Houston's potent group, much like it did in the comeback against Cleveland.
Dayn Perry of CBSSports.com noted the combination of Dellin Betances, Aroldis Chapman, David Robertson, Tommy Kahnle, Chad Green, Jaime Garcia and Adam Warren posted a 2.70 ERA in 20 innings against the Indians, silencing a playoff-hardened group that went to last year's World Series.
The Yankees wouldn't have even reached the Indians series were it not for the bullpen's performance in the AL Wild Card Game against the Twins. Starting pitcher Luis Severino recorded a single out and allowed three runs, but Green, Robertson, Kahnle and Chapman allowed one run and five hits in 8.2 innings to save the season.
The thought here is the Yankees will take a lead into the sixth inning in four of the ALCS games and ride the bullpen to a spot in the World Series.
Predicted winner: New York Yankees
             
National League Championship Series
Odds to Win World Series
Dodgers +195 (1.95-1)
Cubs +750 (7.5-1, but from before they beat the Nationals)
              
Schedule
Game 1: Chicago Cubs at Los Angeles Dodgers; Saturday, Oct. 14 at 8 p.m. ET on TBS
Game 2: Chicago Cubs at Los Angeles Dodgers; Sunday, Oct. 15 at 7:30 p.m. ET on TBS
Game 3: Los Angeles Dodgers at Chicago Cubs; Tuesday, Oct. 17 at TBD on TBS
Game 4: Los Angeles Dodgers at Chicago Cubs; Wednesday, Oct. 18 at TBD on TBS
Game 5*: Los Angeles Dodgers at Chicago Cubs; Thursday, Oct. 19 at TBD on TBS
Game 6*: Chicago Cubs at Los Angeles Dodgers; Saturday, Oct. 21 at TBD on TBS
Game 7*: Chicago Cubs at Los Angeles Dodgers; Sunday, Oct. 22 at TBD on TBS
*If necessary
                
Prediction

The battle between the Nationals and Cubs couldn't have gone better for the Dodgers.
While they were patiently awaiting the winner in Los Angeles, Chicago used starters Jake Arrieta and Jon Lester in Game 4 and Kyle Hendricks and Jose Quintana in Game 5. The latter threw just 12 pitches and may be able to go in Game 1, but using all four in a two-day span puts a serious bind on the rotation.
That's not even accounting for the 44 high-stress pitches from All-Star closer Davis after he pitched in Game 4.
Meanwhile, Los Angeles can line up its rotation of Clayton Kershaw, Yu Darvish and Rich Hill and rely on offensive forces such as Cody Bellinger, Corey Seager and Justin Turner to get to a taxed Chicago bullpen.
It would be unwise to doubt this Cubs team, which overcame a 2-1 deficit against the Dodgers in last season's NLCS, a 3-1 deficit against the Indians in the World Series and battled back to win Game 5 against Washington on Thursday. But things are lined up perfectly for L.A., the team with the league's best regular-season record (104-58) this year.
The battle between New York and Los Angeles will be set.
Predicted winner: Los Angeles Dodgers



One team needed to win three consecutive elimination games in order to keep its season going, while the other has been home and resting for a few days waiting to get back in action. But how the New York Yankees and Houston Astros got to this point no longer matters.
All the past results get thrown out now that the Yankees and Astros start the best-of-seven American League Championship Series beginning with Game 1 on Friday at Minute Maid Park in Houston, Texas. The winner of that first game will get a leg up on reaching the World Series, which neither team has played in for quite some time.
The Yankees' last appearance in the Fall Classic came in 2009, when they beat the Philadelphia Phillies in six games. The Astros' lone World Series trip came in 2005, when they were swept by the Chicago White Sox.
Game 1 is set for an 8:08 p.m. ET first pitch and will be shown live on FS1, which you can find locally here. If you're in Houston and want to take in the game in person, StubHub has tickets available.
And for those interested in making a friendly wager, OddsShark.com has the Astros as minus-175 favorites for Game 1.

Much of that advantage comes from the fact Houston has been able to line its pitching staff up for the opener. Left-hander Dallas Keuchel pitched in Game 2 of the American League Division Series against the Boston Red Sox, allowing one run and three hits over 5.2 innings, and he'll be throwing on six days' rest.
The Astros bullpen should be fresh, too. Closer Ken Giles, who threw two innings in the Game 4 clincher, is the only reliever who has thrown in a live game after Monday.
For the Yankees, the hope will be that its Game 1 starter can do as well as he did last time out in order to allow a much-taxed bullpen to get some time off:
And our ALCS Game 1 starter will be... 

 @t_masahiro18! https://t.co/xNonUrfvbT
Masahiro Tanaka threw seven scoreless innings with a walk and seven strikeouts in the Game 3 win over the Cleveland Indians, the first of three straight victories that enabled New York to rally from down 2-0 in the ALDS. If he can go at least six it will lessen the need to go heavy on relievers, who threw a combined 20 innings in the last series with Dellin Betances, Aroldis Chapman and David Robertson each making three appearances.
Expect Game 1 to set the tone for what should be a tremendous ALDS between two great teams. Houston won the season series 5-2 over the Yankees, taking two of three at home and three of four in the Bronx. But none of those games happened after the All-Star break, so not much can be gleaned from those results.
                  
Follow Brian J. Pedersen on Twitter at @realBJP.



WASHINGTON, D.C. — Cataloguing the Washington Nationals' monumental postseason flops has become such a gargantuan task, clearly the government must create a new federal agency just to keep up.
Word is, they've already got a file started at the nearby Library of Congress. Across town, from his own memorial monument, Abraham Lincoln rolls his eyes and sneers.
Even by the Nationals' own standards, Game 5 of this NL Division Series against the Chicago Cubs was hide-the-women-and-children hideous.
Oh, it was a lot of other things, too. Epic. Incredible. Interminable. Riveting. Maddening (and Maddoning). It was tragically flawed and tragically hip. And in the end, in the good ol' District of Columbia, it was just plain tragic.
The Cubs escaped, 9-8, and the Nationals' perfect record was kept intact. Since moving from Montreal in 2005, they have never won a postseason series. Not one.
"It's what you live for," Bryce Harper said quietly in the loser's clubhouse of the noise, the drama, the action that spread over four-and-a-half hours and for a time gave the Nationals hope before delivering the usual crushing finish. "Go out and battle your tail off.
"It was a great, tough game. We did all we could to win. We just came up short."

The pit in the middle of this particular piece of fruit came in the fifth inning with the Nationals leading 4-3 and ace Max Scherzer entering the game. He quickly got two outs, then got two strikes on Willson Contreras before the catcher beat out an infield single struck just a bit too far to the left of Trea Turner for the shortstop to do anything about it.
Then Scherzer worked Ben Zobrist to a two-strike count before Zobrist looped a single to center.
Up next, Cubs shortstop Addison Russell ripped a two-run double down the third-base line. Instead of hugging the line with two out, Washington's Anthony Rendon was a little too far off the bag.
Then things got really bizarre: The next four Cubs reached on an intentional walk, a passed-ball strikeout, catcher's interference on Matt Wieters and then a hit batter.
It was a 28-pitch inning for Scherzer. Four Cubs scored. A 4-3 Washington lead became a 7-4 deficit.
The only pitch he regretted, Scherzer said, was the changeup that Russell belted for a double. Otherwise…
"I didn't let the adrenaline get too high," Scherzer, still stunned and agitated, said as the Nationals slowly headed into another premature offseason. "I didn't come out too amped. I was throwing the ball well. You have to stay numb.
"I knew everything was getting sideways. I was numb, going, 'OK, what do I gotta do next? OK, passed ball, now get [Tommy] La Stella. OK, catcher's interference, now I've gotta get [Jon] Jay. Bury the cutter. OK, what's next? I've gotta get [Kris] Bryant.'
"You can't ride the emotional roller coaster."

The Nationals tried. Lord, did they try.
No question, this was the biggest game since the franchise moved from Montreal. And the Cubs tried their damndest to give it to them. Between the sixth and eighth innings, Cubs pitchers walked an astounding seven Nationals batters. Three scored. Chicago did everything but gift-wrap this thing and, still, same as always, Washington could not find the path to victory.
"They all burn," said Scherzer, who lost his share of October heartbreakers in Detroit before signing a seven-year, $210 million deal with Washington before the 2015 season. "This one burns.
"You're going to be kicking yourself the whole offseason."
Look, this isn't a case of kicking a team when it's down. This is what the Nats do in October.
When they staked starter Gio Gonzalez to a 4-1 lead over the Cubs thanks to hero-for-a-millisecond Michael A. Taylor, whose three-run, second-inning homer gave him seven RBI in his past two NLDS at-bats, things were looking really good.
But veteran Nationals watchers knew one thing: They had been here before, Game 5 in 2012, when Gonzalez was the starter and the Nats staked him to a 6-0 lead.
They couldn't win that clincher, losing 9-7 to St. Louis.
And they couldn't win this clincher, losing 9-8 to the Cubs.

This is a club that now has won the NL East in four of the past six seasons. That 2012 group produced the best record in the major leagues. In 2014, they were bounced in the NLDS by San Francisco. Last year it was the Dodgers who bit them in another Game 5 right here in Nationals Park, capped when Los Angeles ace Clayton Kershaw dramatically emerged from the bullpen for a save.
The last time the District of Columbia saw its team win a postseason series was when the 1924 Senators won the World Series.
Now?
Break up the Nats. Seriously.
If they cannot win with a star-studded roster of Bryce Harper, Stephen Strasburg, Max Scherzer, Jayson Werth, forget it. And by "if they cannot win with," I do not mean simply on one windy, chilly October evening in 2017. I mean, this is ongoing.
They've scapegoated closers like Drew Storen and Rafael Soriano, and managers like Matt Williams and Davey Johnson. They've brought in miscreants like Jonathan Papelbon.
They practically covered Strasburg in protective bubble wrap in 2012, shutting him down early to protect his precious arm from throwing too many pitches. Didn't matter, as he didn't pitch last postseason because, yes, his right elbow was hurt.
In the clubhouse, manager Dusty Baker made the rounds well after midnight, catching each player individually at his locker for a hug and a thank you. It was touching and poignant. It also was depressingly familiar.
Managers come and go around here. Players change. But one thing doesn't: October always ends with a thud.
"Nothing really surprises you in baseball," catcher Matt Wieters said. "You've gotta play every game how it is. This one was 9-8.
"We were hoping to win 10-9."
Harper talked about how sad he is that fellow outfielder Jayson Werth, whose contract is expiring, probably played his last game for Washington. Harper had talked this spring in emotional terms about how badly he wanted to send Werth out a winner.
Nope, didn't happen. And now Harper is eligible for free agency after next season, and you can see this team's best chances at Champagne and parades clearly in what sure looks like a rear-view mirror. Harper talked about how the goal still is to "take the next step" and, to get there, trusting in general manager Mike Rizzo and what he's going to do this winter in terms of personnel moves.

But this was perhaps Rizzo's finest summer, adding outfielder Howie Kendrick after center fielder Adam Eaton suffered ACL and meniscus tears and addressing bullpen issues that have been there for years by acquiring Brandon Kintzler, Sean Doolittle and Ryan Madson.
This was the Nationals' best chance, best team, in years. And they still couldn't punch their way out of the NLDS even though the Cubs gave them ample opportunity.
"The Cubs are a great team," Harper said. "We knew that coming in. They have a great staff and a great team. We do as well.
"They just came out on top."
And in other news, leaves turn red and gold in the autumn and Halloween is coming on the last day of this month.
"It's a bummer," Harper said, quietly.
"This game is cruel sometimes," Scherzer said, "the way things can happen."
Meanwhile, down the hall, the defending world champion Cubs were whooping it up, headed for Los Angeles and another big bite of that sweet October pie.



An early 4-1 deficit in Game 5 against the Washington Nationals proved to be little more than an annoyance, and now the defending World Series champion Chicago Cubs are moving onto the National League Championship Series.
The Cubs will face the Dodgers, thanks in large part to a two-out, four-run rally at the top of the fifth inning off of Max Scherzer. The Washington ace had come into the game out of the bullpen and got two quick outs before the roof caved in on him and the Nationals.
The Cubs won the game 9-8, and they took the series 3-2. Closer Wade Davis came on in the seventh inning to record a seven-out save. He got a huge assist from catcher Willson Contreras, who picked off Jose Lobaton to end the eighth inning. 
The Cubs and Dodgers will get underway at Dodgers Stadium Saturday at 8 p.m ET. Here's how the series will play out:
Game 1: Chicago at Los Angeles, 8 p.m., TBS, Oct. 14
Game 2: Chicago at Los Angeles, 7:30 p.m., TBS, Oct. 15
Game 3: Los Angeles at Chicago, TBD. TBS, Oct. 17
Game 4: Los Angeles at Chicago, TBD, TBS, Oct. 18
Game 5: Los Angeles at Chicago, TBD, TBS, Oct. 19 (if necessary)
Game 6: Chicago at Los Angeles, TBD, TBS, Oct. 21 (if necessary)
Game 7: Chicago at Los Angeles, TBD, TBS, Oct. 22 (if necessary)
Tickets for the series can be purchased through StubHub.
               
The Cubs have been proving their talent and resiliency through the last three seasons. They made it to the NLCS in 2015 where they were swept by the New York Mets. They won the World Series last year against the Cleveland Indians after trailing by a 3-1 margin, and they finished off the Nats in five excruciating games in the NLDS this year.
They have a solid core of proven stars in Anthony Rizzo, Kris Bryant, Contreras, Javier Baez and Addison Russell. The starting pitchers are led by Jon Lester, Jose Quintana, Jake Arrieta and Kyle Hendricks, but veteran John Lackey could get the start in Game 1 since he did not pitch in the NLDS against Washington. 

The Dodgers have a rested Clayton Kershaw to start Game 1, and he is regularly considered the top pitcher in either league. However, his postseason record (5-7, 4.63 earned-run average) is nowhere near as good as his regular-season record.
For three-quarters of the season the Dodgers were the best team in baseball, but they went through a brutal late-season slump that saw them lose 16-of-17 games. They have emerged from that funk and swept the Arizona Diamondbacks in the NLDS.
Justin Turner hit .462 with a home run and five RBI, while Yasiel Puig hit .455 with four RBI against the Diamondbacks.
                  
Prediction
This series has all the makings of a classic seven-game battle. The Cubs are the never-say-die defending champions, while the Dodgers are talented, hungry and well-rested.
As tough as the Cubs are, they don't seem to be the team of destiny they were a year ago. The starting pitching is not as effective as it was in 2016, and the Dodgers had their bats going in the NLDS. They should be able to scratch out some clutch runs against the Cubs.
Chicago will have its moments in the series as Rizzo is a tough hitter, Bryant is capable of breaking open any game and Baez is capable of making plays in the field that no other second baseman can attempt.
It comes down to a seventh game. We see the Dodgers winning a tight, well-played seventh game with top closer Kenley Jansen finishing with a flourish.



The World Series champions are still alive.
The Chicago Cubs overcame an early 4-1 deficit and held on for dear life at the end to oust the Washington Nationals in Game 5 of the National League Division Series on Thursday with a 9-8 victory at Nationals Park. The Cubs offense exploded for seven straight runs to take the lead and then relied on closer Wade Davis to finish the game with a seven-out save.
According to Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports, it was the first seven-out save of his career.
#FlyTheW and celebrate. #CLINCHED https://t.co/kgho2g2qrI
While Davis allowed a run, two hits and two walks, he worked a 1-2-3 ninth inning against the top of the Nationals lineup to preserve the save. His strikeout of Bryce Harper propelled the Cubs to their second straight National League Championship Series against the Los Angeles Dodgers.
The final few innings featured a replay overturn, starting pitchers in relief and Davis doing something he's never done, but the drama truly escalated in the bottom of the seventh.
Jose Quintana, who is normally a Chicago starter, induced a bases-loaded sacrifice fly from Harper to trim the Cubs' lead to 9-7 and turned the ball over to Davis. The closer promptly struck out Ryan Zimmerman with two runners on, but he allowed a run in the eighth on Michael A. Taylor's RBI single.
It was Davis' catcher, Willson Contreras, who snuffed out Washington's rally in the penultimate inning by picking off Jose Lobaton at first base on a play that replay overturned.
Willy’s always watching! #CLINCHED https://t.co/TTiMl7EdEZ
Breaks like that are representative of the overall struggles in the nation's capital, as ESPN Stats & Info noted:
Over the last 12 seasons, Washington pro sports teams are 3-13 in winner-take-all playoff games, including losing 9 of their last 10.
Neither starter—Chicago's Kyle Hendricks nor Washington's Gio Gonzalez—was effective.
Washington turned to ace Max Scherzer on short rest in the fifth, only to watch him allow Chicago's biggest inning. All four runs came with two outs when Addison Russell drilled a two-run double and scored when catcher Matt Wieters threw a passed ball, which was strike three, into the outfield.
.@Addison_Russell turned that clutch factor all the way up. #NLDS https://t.co/Nj2iQp6VQI
What's more, Scherzer hit Jon Jay with the bases loaded, and Ryan Fagan of Sporting News captured the craziness of the frame:
Scherzer's inning ...

- out
- out
- infield 1B
- bloop 1B
- double
- int. BB
- strikeout/passed ball
- catcher's int
- hit-by-pitch
- out
It should be noted Javier Baez hit Wieters on his backswing before the throwing error, and Joe Posnanski of MLB.com indicated the umpires made a mistake by letting the play continue:
Looked it up. Yep. Sure looks like umps blew call. https://t.co/2Rofu2YEqB
It wasn't the only unfortunate break for a Nationals franchise that hasn't won a playoff series since it moved to Washington. Jayson Werth lost a Russell line drive in the lights that went into the box score as an RBI double, bringing the Cubs shortstop's RBI total to four and giving his team an 8-4 lead in the sixth.
All of it could have been avoided for the NL East winners had Gonzalez thrown a solid game. He allowed three earned runs, three hits and four walks in just three innings. The runs came on RBI groundouts from Russell and Anthony Rizzo and a wild pitch, but things would have been worse for the southpaw had it not been for his ability to retire Jason Heyward twice in big spots with runners in scoring position.
His counterpart lasted four innings and allowed four earned runs and nine hits while fanning seven. It was far from the Hendricks who posted a 1.42 ERA in five playoff games last year and outdueled Clayton Kershaw in Game 6 of the NLCS.
Daniel Murphy and Taylor—who drilled a grand slam in Washington's Game 4 win—each homered off Hendricks within a four-batter span in the second, scoring all four runs off him.
Don’t pitch to @Taylor_Michael3 either. #NLDS https://t.co/NmwrhQAQTW
Murphy also added an RBI double to make it 8-6 in the sixth inning, and Kris Bryant's RBI on a fielder's choice in the seventh set the stage for the dramatic conclusion.
Now Chicago turns its attention toward the Dodgers and their MLB-best 104-58 record in the NLCS. It will be a rematch of last year's showdown, which the Cubs won in six games on their way to a World Series title.
The Cubs will have to deal with Kershaw and Yu Darvish this time around instead of just the former and will need some of the offensive fireworks on display Thursday.



Washington Nationals starting pitcher Stephen Strasburg tossed seven shutout innings against the Chicago Cubs on Wednesday evening to stave off elimination in the National League Division Series and force a Game 5 back at Nationals Park.
Over the course of his seven frames, Strasburg allowed just three hits and two walks while fanning 12 Cubs batters. His effort Wednesday placed the 29-year-old hurler alongside Joe Coleman (1972 ALCS) as one of the only two pitchers in MLB postseason history to record 12 strikeouts without surrendering a run in an elimination game, per MLB Stat of the Day.
Strasburg has been a dominant force on the mound for Washington in his two starts this postseason, allowing no earned runs over 14 innings of work. He lost Game 1 against Chicago due to two runs scoring partially because of an error by third baseman Anthony Rendon.
After two seasons of having his innings limited to fewer than 150 due to various injuries, Strasburg was able to compile 175.1 frames during the regular season in 2017, posting his best ratios (2.52 ERA, 1.02 WHIP) for a season in which he pitched more than five games (2011).
The Nationals and Cubs have traded off victories so far in the series, with each clubs taking one from the opposition at its home ballpark to reach Game 5. The Nationals will send Gio Gonzalez to the mound Thursday to square off against Chicago and Kyle Hendricks.



After a thrilling five-game series against the Cleveland Indians, the New York Yankees will begin the American League Championship Series with Masahiro Tanaka starting Game 1 against the Houston Astros on Friday.
The Yankees announced Tanaka as their Game 1 starter:
And our ALCS Game 1 starter will be... 

 @t_masahiro18! https://t.co/xNonUrfvbT
The obvious choices for Yankees manager Joe Girardi in Game 1 were Tanaka and Sonny Gray, who started the first game against the Indians on Oct. 5. 
Gray had the stronger overall season with a 3.55 ERA, 153 strikeouts and 139 hits allowed in 162.1 innings with the Yankees and Oakland Athletics. 
However, Gray had his struggles down the stretch with a 4.58 ERA and 14 walks in six September starts. He also struggled with his command against Cleveland last week with four walks and three earned runs in 3.1 innings. 
Tanaka has made everyone forget his 4.74 ERA in 2017 with back-to-back dominant outings. He struck out 15 Toronto Blue Jays in seven shutout innings on Sept. 29 and allowed three hits with seven strikeouts in seven shutout innings in Game 3 against Cleveland to keep New York's season alive.
The Yankees and Astros will open the ALCS at Minute Maid Park on Friday with first pitch scheduled for 8:08 p.m. ET.


On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
The ALCS features two of the MLB's most powerful offenses in the Astros and Yankees. Watch above to see how they match up.
Connect to the stories, teams, athletes and highlights that make the game more than a game.
Speaking of the game, it's time to take your sports knowledge to the next level! Download the free Bleacher Report app to catch all the moments that matter in one place. Get the app to get the game.



Facing the Chicago Cubs in the decisive Game 5 of the National League Division Series Thursday, the Washington Nationals will use Gio Gonzalez as their starting pitcher.
Nationals manager Dusty Baker announced Gonzalez as his starter for the winner-take-all game, per MLB.com. 
After the Nationals defeated the Cubs, 5-0, in Game 4 on Wednesday to even the series at two, Baker hadn't decided if he would turn to Gonzalez or Tanner Roark for Game 5. 
"Whoever it is, I hope they pitch like (Stephen Strasburg) today," he said, via ESPN's Eddie Matz. 
Roark was originally scheduled to start Game 4, but a rainout on Tuesday allowed the Nationals to bring back Strasburg on regular rest. Strasburg was terrific against the Cubs yesterday with 12 strikeouts over seven innings. 
Gonzalez started Game 2 of the series, allowing three runs on three hits and two walks with six strikeouts over five innings. The Nationals scored five runs in the eighth inning to earn a 6-3 victory. 
The Cubs will turn to Kyle Hendricks, who allowed two hits in seven shutout innings during Friday's Game 1 win. 



Stephen Strasburg came up with a gem when the Washington Nationals needed it most, and Michael A. Taylor made it count when he delivered an eighth-inning grand slam in Game 4 of the National League Division Series.
The Nationals pulled out a 5-0 victory and tied the series at 2-2. 
Washington and the Chicago Cubs will meet in a decisive Game 5 at Nationals Park Thursday at 8:08 p.m. ET. The game will be broadcast by TBS and live streamed at MLB.TV.
While the Nats had the advantage once Strasburg overcame an illness and decided to pitch in Game 4, the Cubs would seem to be in a better position for Game 5 as Kyle Hendricks will take the mound.
Stephen Strasburg with the must-win-game performance you dream about. #NLDS https://t.co/bTP09gq2WO
Dusty Baker had not made an official announcement on Washington's starter, but it seemed likely that Gio Gonzalez would get the start and Tanner Roark would likely follow him on to the mound. Staff ace Max Scherzer should also be available for an inning or two if Baker decides he is needed for this game.
Hendricks earned the victory in Game 1 of the series when he gave up just two hits while striking out six over seven innings in Chicago's 3-0 victory. Hendricks has a 1.93 earned-run average against Washington this season.
Cubs reliever Carl Edwards Jr. did not hold back when it came to his outlook on Game 5. 
"I mean, it's going to be a great game tomorrow. I know for a fact that he's going to be on," Edwards said about Hendricks, per Scott Allen of the Washington Post. "We're just going to go out there, we'll have fun, and we'll see you guys in L.A."
The winner of the NLDS will meet the Los Angeles Dodgers in the National League Championship Series.
Pitching has been the story of this series, with the hitters providing late-inning heroics. The Nats won Game 2 after eighth-inning home runs by Bryce Harper and Ryan Zimmerman, while the Cubs took Game 3 at Wrigley Field on an eighth-inning bloop single by Anthony Rizzo.
Michael A. Taylor just hit the first #Postseason grand slam in franchise history.

#OnePursuit https://t.co/G4DOlifkFe
Washington had a 1-0 lead in Game 4 until Taylor's decisive blow off Cubs closer Wade Davis. Taylor was more reserved in his comments about Game 5 than Edwards was in the Chicago locker room.
"As a team, we feel good," Taylor said, per StatsTSX. "We talked about it a little before the game about taking it one game at a time, and obviously, today was a necessary step to take it back to D.C. ... We're going back, and we'd just like to have another quality game."
Both of these teams have powerful offenses that could explode in Game 5, but the likelihood is the winning team may scratch out one or two more runs than the losers. A slugfest is not likely based on what happened through the first four games.
     
Prediction
The Nationals have suffered when it comes to postseason play, and they have lost three previous NLDS series, and two of them went the five-game limit.
The franchise has won just one playoff series in its history, and that came in 1981 when they were the Montreal Expos and they defeated the Philadelphia Phillies in the National League Division Series (strike-altered season and playoff format). They subsequently lost the NLCS to the Los Angeles Dodgers.
While the Game 4 win in Chicago was memorable and heroic because of the performances of Strasburg and Taylor, the Nats will almost certainly have to play even better in Game 5 if they are going to advance.
Hendricks is a smart, cool customer for the Cubs, and he knows how to pitch in big games. He started Game 7 in last year's World Series against Cleveland, and he appears to have excellent command. 
The Cubs have the experience of winning big games and they have the better pitching situation. Look for the Cubs to outlast the Nats and advance to the NLCS.



The New York Yankees shocked the world in the American League Division Series, coming back to win three straight games to knock out the AL favorite Cleveland Indians. Yet, can they continue their magic?
New York cannot afford to fall into a similar deficit in the AL Championship Series, as the Houston Astros are playing World Series-caliber baseball at the moment, particularly on offense.
One league MVP candidate is doing his best to secure a pennant for the Astros, while the Yankees' leading slugger is hoping to end his free fall in the ALCS.
How can you catch all of this exciting action? Tune in starting Friday to see if the Yankees can win another series as an underdog while Houston tries to keep on rolling, with the current World Series odds coming via OddsShark.com.
              
ALCS 2017 Viewing Schedule, Dates
Game 1: Friday, Oct. 13 on FS1
Game 2: Saturday, Oct. 14 on Fox
Game 3: Monday, Oct. 16 on FS1
Game 4: Tuesday, Oct. 17 on Fox/FS1
Game 5*: Wednesday, Oct. 18 on Fox/FS1
Game 6*: Friday, Oct. 20 on Fox/FS1
Game 7*: Saturday, Oct. 21 on Fox/FS1
          
Updated World Series Odds
Houston Astros: 9-4
New York Yankees: 15-4
             
ALCS Preview
Pitching was the name of the game for the Yankees in the ALDS, as CC Sabathia, Luis Severino and Masahiro Tanaka combined for three excellent starts to propel New York to come back from the two-game deficit.
It also helps that the team possesses a lights-out bullpen that capped off the three wins, per SI.com's Joe Sheehan:
The #Yankees bullpen during the comeback: 8 2/3 shutout IP, seven baserunners, 15 strikeouts.
Relief pitching is an area the Yankees excelled in this season, as they finished third in the league with a bullpen ERA of 3.34. That has carried over into the postseason as a whole.
Aroldis Chapman has thrown 6.2 scoreless innings with 13 strikeouts, Tommy Kahnle has not allowed a hit in five innings and David Robertson has conceded just four hits and one run in eight frames of work.
When the Yankees receive a solid start, they are pretty tough to beat. This bullpen gives them a distinct advantage late in the game, as the Astros' mediocre relief pitching put them 17th in MLB with a 4.17 ERA, and they followed that up with 10 runs allowed over 16.1 innings in their ALDS matchup with the Boston Red Sox.
Luckily for Houston, it has an offense explosive enough to spot its bullpen with plenty of runs.
The Astros led the league in scoring this season, easily topping the second-ranked Yankees with 896 runs while also leading MLB with a .282 average. In fact, Houston boasted one of the best attacks in baseball history, per MLB.com's Mike Petriello:
Astros had a historically good offense this year.

So far in OCT, they're having a historic postseason, too.

MORE: https://t.co/hRRi6xmd7o https://t.co/5ptyUcD71e
Jose Altuve has led the way this postseason, going 8-for-15 in the ALDS with three homers, four RBI and four walks.
Meanwhile, his main competition for AL MVP could not be struggling more. Aaron Judge had one hit, a huge two-run double in Game 4, in the ALDS and set a record for most strikeouts in a postseason series with 16.
ESPN's Buster Olney put the slump into a different perspective during Game 5:
Aaron Judge has 15 strikeouts in this series. Tony Gwynn had 15 strikeouts in 535 at-bats during the 1995 season.
Judge did not receive the quality of help around him like Yulieski Gurriel and George Springer, who each hit over .400, while Carlos Correa is still arguably the best shortstop despite not having his best series. Yet, the Yankees cannot feel as great about their chances if Judge replicates this clunker of a series.
Starting pitching is an area of strength for Houston, though, carrying two aces in Dallas Keuchel and Justin Verlander along with strong secondary options such as Lance McCullers Jr. and Brad Peacock.
Keuchel, who will start Game 1, iced the Yankees in his lone start against them in the regular season, going six innings with five hits and earned runs.

Still, the Yankees can counter. Starting pitchers have not been announced, but it is safe to assume two of Sonny Gray, Severino and Tanaka will start in Games 1 and 2.
Gray was shaky with his 3.1 innings of work in the ALDS, but he is still a quality arm and his 3.45 career ERA make him one of the best pitchers in this series.
Throw in Severino and Tanaka, both of whom are coming off of at least seven innings of masterful pitching in their last outings, and New York is sitting pretty with Sabathia available to throw big innings later in the series.
With all of these factors in mind, the Yankees feel like the favorite here. 
They are much better equipped than Boston to handle Houston with their pitching, and they have been scraping together an average of just under five runs a game, which is more than enough in the playoffs.
The bullpen will be key, as New York's stronger ability to hold leads or cease the Astros' offense late in games can allow the Yankees to capitalize on a shaky Houston relief group.
This series looks destined to go at least six games, but look for the Yankees to pull another upset and move on to the World Series.
              
Statistics are courtesy of MLB.com unless otherwise noted. 



Fact: Stephen Strasburg struck out 12 batters in a 5-0 victory over the Chicago Cubs in Game 4, breaking his own franchise record for strikeouts in a postseason game. 
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: Washington Nationals 



Only five contenders remain for the World Series entering Thursday's playoff baseball schedule.
The Cleveland Indians, Boston Red Sox and Arizona Diamondbacks have seen their respective seasons end in the last week, and one more team will join them on the golf course following Game 5 of the NLDS between the Chicago Cubs and Washington Nationals. 
With five contenders for the championship left following the New York Yankees' 5-2 win in Game 5 of the ALDS over the Indians, the margin for error is slimmer, but the chances of adding hardware to the trophy case have increased. 
       
Updated Bracket
NLDS
Chicago Cubs at Washington Nationals (Game 5 on Thursday, series tied 2-2) 
ALCS
New York Yankees at Houston Astros (Best-of-7 series begins on Friday) 
NLCS 
Cubs or Nationals at Los Angeles Dodgers (Best-of-7 series begins on Saturday)
      
Predictions
NLDS
While the Dodgers enjoy another off day out in California, the Cubs and Nationals will square off for the right to fly out west for Saturday's Game 1 of the NLCS.
The Nationals leveled the NLDS with a 5-0 victory at Wrigley Field on Wednesday that was powered by a late grand slam off the bat of Michael A. Taylor. 

Kyle Hendricks will take the mound at Nationals Park for the Cubs, while the Nationals are still undecided on who will oppose him. Dusty Baker told reporters he'll call on either Tanner Roark or Gio Gonzalez, per Chelsea Janes of the Washington Post. 
Gonzalez put together a solid five-inning outing in Game 2 before the game was won in the eighth inning. If the lefthander is sent to the bump by Baker, the Cubs will most likely shift toward a heavy right-handed lineup. If Roark is the Game 5 starter, expect more lefties in the Chicago lineup. 
If Game 5 comes down to the bullpens, you could give a slight edge to the Nationals and their crew building up to closer Sean Doolittle. Not only are they in their home ballpark, but the Nats also roughed up Cubs closer Wade Davis in the eighth inning of Game 4. Confidence and momentum can certainly play a role in deciding a postseason contest and the Nationals have plenty of that. 
Prediction: Nationals over Cubs
        
ALCS
The Yankees pulled off a remarkable comeback in the ALDS to knock out the defending AL champion Indians, but an even tougher task awaits in the ALCS against the Astros. 
Although there were plenty of impressive performances turned in by the players in pinstripes during the ALDS, one superstar struggled. Aaron Judge struck out a record 16 times in 19 at-bats against the Indians.
According to baseball statistician Ryan Spaeder on Twitter, Judge shattered the previous record of 13 strikeouts in a playoff series: 
#Yankees Aaron Judge now has 16 strikeouts in the #ALDS. No other player in history has ever had more than 13 strikeouts in a single series.
The good news for the Yankees entering the ALCS is their bullpen comes in with a ton of confidence. Although he had to wait close to 30 minutes to complete his two-inning save, Aroldis Chapman got the job done and showed manager Joe Girardi he's capable of achieving the feat again if called upon. David Robertson, Tommy Kahnle, Chad Green and Dellin Betances give Girardi plenty of options if his starters falter early in games. 
Carlos Correa is the player to watch in the Astros lineup. The shortstop hit .500 in his seven regular-season meetings with the Yankees, per Brian McTaggart of MLB.com: 
In seven games against the Yankees this year, Carlos Correa was 14-for-28 with two homers and 10 RBIs.
Correa was one of seven Astros to record four or more hits in the ALDS versus the Red Sox. Yulieski Gurriel was the most successful batter with nine hits. 
Much like their ALCS counterpart, the Astros will rely heavily on their bullpen earlier than usual if they have to, but some of the arms in the pen have to improve. Chris Devenski struggled in his 2 1/3 innings of work by giving up three earned runs, while Ken Giles was tagged for two earned runs in three innings on the mound.
On paper, it is hard to figure out who will take the next step and advance to the World Series. Both teams have lineups capable of putting up crooked numbers in each frame, but both also have the capability of winning a pitcher's duel. 
Prediction: Astros over Yankees in 7.
        
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90.
All statistics obtained from baseball-reference.com unless otherwise noted. 



New York Yankees third baseman Todd Frazier dedicated the team's Game 5 ALDS win over the Cleveland Indians on Wednesday to manager Joe Girardi.
Girardi came under fire for a non-challenge in Game 2 of the series that swung the momentum in Cleveland's favor, but Frazier said he and the other players rallied around their manager, according to ESPN.com: "This one is for Joe. He got a lot of criticism after that second game, and we talked a lot, me and him. I couldn't be happier for him. I couldn't be happier for him."
In Game 2, Indians outfielder Lonnie Chisenhall was given first base after the home-plate umpire determined he was hit by a pitch.
Replays appeared to show the pitch hitting the knob of his bat, however, which should have resulted in a strikeout and the end of the inning since Yankees catcher Gary Sanchez caught the foul tip.
Instead, Girardi decided against challenging, Indians shortstop Francisco Lindor hit a grand slam, and the entire complexion of the game changed.
Cleveland went on to win in extra innings and take a commanding 2-0 series lead, but the Yankees rallied to win three in a row, including a 5-2 triumph on the road in Wednesday's Game 5.
After earning the chance to face the Houston Astros in the ALCS, Girardi discussed the emotional roller coaster he has ridden in recent days:
"The difference between [Game 2] and today is about as big as you can get. I don't know at any point in my career that I felt worse than I did on Friday. As I expressed many times, it's the hurt for the other people that is so hard for me. So the emotions, I mean, these guys had my back and they fought and fought. And again, they beat a really, really good team."
Wednesday's win ensured that Girardi was off the hook, and it kept the Yankees' pursuit of their 28th World Series championship alive.
New York will make its first ALCS appearance since 2012, and it will have an opportunity to reach the World Series for the first time since 2009 when it beat the Philadelphia Phillies.



There's no rest for the weary in the National League Division Series. Less than 24 hours after finishing Game 4 in Chicago, the scene has moved to Washington, D.C., where the Chicago Cubs and Washington Nationals will decide who plays the Los Angeles Dodgers in the National League Championship Series.
The lack of a travel day came about after Game 4, originally set for Tuesday, was pushed back to Wednesday because of rain. The Nationals won that game, 5-0, to keep alive their hope of winning a postseason series for the first time in franchise history.
Now it's win or go home for both teams, with the Cubs' goal of defending their World Series title on the line while the Nats try to end decades of playoff futility.
Take a look at what Vegas thinks of that chance, according to OddsShark.com.
       
Chicago Cubs at Washington Nationals Viewing Guide
When: Thursday, Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. ET
Television: TBS
Live Stream: WatchTBS
Odds: Cubs 25/29, Nationals 106/100
       
Game 5 Preview
Cubs manager Joe Maddon wasted no time confirming that right-hander Kyle Hendricks would start in Game 5, but he's also got another starter picked if Hendricks can't go out, per Angelo DiCarlo of WNDU:
Maddon on Thursday's plan: Hendricks will start. Quintana will play the "Lester" role if needed out of the bullpen.
Hendricks was brilliant in Game 1 of the NLDS, holding the Nationals to two hits over seven innings in the 3-0 victory. It was his fourth consecutive start allowing one earned run or fewer, with six walks and 26 strikeouts over 25.2 innings.
Quintana, Chicago's Game 3 starter on Monday, was strong over 5.2 innings in that game in throwing 96 pitches. The lefty midseason pickup from the Chicago White Sox has only once before pitched on two days' rest—in 2013, when he allowed three runs over seven innings in a loss against the Baltimore Orioles.
Jon Lester threw 3.2 innings after Jake Arrieta only lasted four, a tandem that could get matched by Hendricks and Quintana.
After that, it's a mystery for the Cubs, much as it is from the outset for Washington. Manager Dusty Baker hasn't announced whether lefty Gio Gonzalez or righty Tanner Roark will start, meaning this is the second straight game Roark is in the running to get the ball.
Roark, who has yet to appear in the NLDS, was originally set to start Game 4, but the rainout enabled Baker to go with Stephen Strasburg and that moved paid off in the form of seven shutout innings. Gonzalez got a no-decision in Game 2, giving up three runs in five innings.
"I'm not trying to be coy at all, because that was the theme of the day with [Stephen Strasburg]," Baker said, per Chelsea Janes of the Washington Post. "Whoever it is, I hope they pitch like Stras did today."
It's entirely possible both teams will go with back-to-back starters to help lessen strain on their bullpens, though Washington is in a better position. Ryan Madson and closer Sean Doolittle each threw a frame in Game 4, with Doolittle only throwing 12 pitches, while the Cubs went through four relievers Thursday after Arrieta/Lester.
Cubs closer Wade Davis was pulled after allowing a walk and two hits, including a grand slam to Michael A. Taylor, and while he only threw 11 pitches his confidence could be damaged.
On the hitting front, neither team has been knocking the cover off the ball. The Nationals are batting .172, with Taylor the only starter hitting better than .188, while the Cubs' team batting average (.159) is nearly 80 percentage points lower than during their championship run a season ago.

The big names have been particularly cold on both ends. Bryce Harper is 2-for-15, though one of those hits was a home run, while Anthony Rendon (2-for-14) and Ryan Zimmerman (3-for-16) have also struggled for Washington, and Chicago studs Kris Bryant and Anthony Rizzo are a combined 7-for-30 with 14 strikeouts.
A loss here will be considered disastrous for both teams, but more so for the Cubs. Despite being the lower seed they are the defending champions and have far more pressure on their shoulders, while Washington is almost playing with house money after being down 2-1 on the road. It will be the Nationals moving on to their first NLCS since moving to Washington and the franchise's first since doing so as the Montreal Expos in 1981.
       
Follow Brian J. Pedersen on Twitter at @realBJP.



CLEVELAND — He speaks four languages, paints and sketches on road trips and spent two weeks last January giving baseball clinics in three different New Zealand cities.      
Now Didi Gregorius is finishing the year administering another clinic, this one for the New York Yankees in October.
Are they really doing this? The New York Yankees? Again?
Smash! Gregorius sank his bat into a Corey Kluber 94 mph fastball in the first inning and stunned the Cleveland Indians with a solo homer.
Ka-boom! Gregorius whipped that bat around again in the third and launched a Kluber curveball into darned near the same spot in right field for a two-run homer.
Goodbye, Cleveland. Hello...what, exactly?
The Yankees dispatched the Indians 5-2, sprayed Champagne late into the night, completed an historic and incredible comeback from a two-game hole, booked their place into the American League Championship Series opposite the Houston Astros—Game 1 is Friday night—and dreams now are growing bigger by the hour.
They are just the eighth team in baseball history to overcome an 0-2 deficit in the LDS, and the second Yankees team (2001 vs. the Oakland A's) to accomplish the feat.
"At one point, the '96 team was inexperienced and hadn't won before," New York general manager Brian Cashman was saying in a hallway just off the Yankees' clubhouse. "It's hard to compare. You take every one when they come, you're in it to win it, and this team's gotten us this far and hopefully will get a little further."
The Baby Bombers are growing, the veterans are leading and the Bronx is getting noisy again. These Yankees are so skilled they've even picked up their manager. Joe Girardi has pointed that out now a few times, and as this division series shifted back to Cleveland's Progressive Field for Game 5, it was hard not to think of the disaster New York left behind in Game 2.
But if Girardi's failure to ask for an instant replay was lurking somewhere in the shadows, it was wiped clean by the end of this night.
Start with Gregorius, who has played in more MLB regular-season games (635) as a native of The Netherlands than any man this side of Hall of Famer Bert Blyleven (699). Cashman acquired him from Arizona in a three-way deal that also included Detroit before the 2015 season as a replacement for icon Derek Jeter.
He's shown remarkable staying power.
"You don't hear much about Jeet other than him owning the Marlins now," quipped veteran CC Sabathia, whose 4.1 solid innings (two runs, five hits, nine strikeouts) pointed the Yanks in the right direction. "If not for what Didi's done, people would still be talking about him playing shortstop for the Yankees.

"You've gotta give Didi all the credit."
Not only did Gregorius slam two Game 5 homers, but it was his three-run, first-inning blast against the Minnesota Twins that keyed New York's wild-card comeback.
"I think back to a couple of years ago when we first got him and everybody in the stands every night was chanting Derek Jeter's name, and, obviously, nowadays you don't hear that near as often," leadoff man Brett Gardner said. "On both sides of the ball, not just defensively but offensively, he's one of the best shortstops in the game."
It's not that Jeter will ever be forgotten in New York, but, hey, Gregorius' staying power has been remarkable. And he's getting better every year.
Funny thing, Cashman said, is that the Yankees scouts liked Gregorius better than he did as Jeter played out his final days and the club zeroed in hard on not necessarily a replacement—because who could ever replace Jeter in Yankees lore?—but someone to at least plug the position for a while. As they analyzed the options, Cashman was swayed.
Then, he almost couldn't get a deal done.
"I couldn’t get it done straight up with Arizona," Cashman said. "Dave Stewart [Arizona's GM at the time] is a close friend of mine, and I tried 10 different ways to do business with the Arizona Diamondbacks direct, and Dave was like, sorry, I just don't see it. He rejected every proposal I made, and I made a ton.
"So finally I called Dave Dombrowski in Detroit [the Tigers' former GM and now the president of baseball operations for Boston]. I knew Dave coveted [pitcher] Shane Greene. I didn't want to give up Shane Greene, but I said, 'Dave, if you can get Didi Gregorius from Arizona for me, I'll give you Shane Greene.' And then within 72 hours he's like, I got him. He matched up, I couldn't, and we had a three-way."
It may go down as Cashman's finest move. The Yankees sure appreciate it.
"To be able to come in and do what he's done over the last few years, we're very lucky to have him," Gardner said. "He's a hell of a ballplayer, and he's a huge reason why we're moving on."
So too is Gardner, the quintessential leadoff man who ground 34 pitches out of the Cleveland Indians over five at-bats Thursday night. He struck out on the 12th pitch of his fifth-inning duel with reliever Andrew Miller, but he stroked what wound up being a two-run single on the 12th pitch he saw in the ninth inning.
It was an epic at-bat. It gave the Yankees some breathing room, and, like Cashman's trade for Gregorius, it exhibited the sort of persistence and doggedness that key this team. Yes, of course, the Yankees are supremely talented too, but talent only goes so far.

And the Yankees needed everything they could squeeze from the Old Salts like Sabathia, Gardner, Gregorius, David Robertson, Aroldis Chapman and the rest because the Baby Bombers are finding October a difficult month to traverse. Aaron Judge struck out 16 times in 20 at-bats in this division series, and Gary Sanchez fanned 10 times in 23 at-bats. Greg Bird scuffled too.
But they advanced, and, as Cashman said, "Reggie [Jackson] always talked about how when you have a bat in your hand, you can change the story."
Now one of the final two teams standing in the AL, you bet some of those slugging Baby Bombers will be looking to change the story, pronto.
And while they do, the Yankees have every reason to believe they can author more of their own rich, rich story.
Are they here one year early? Two years early?
Who's counting? Nobody in this clubhouse.
"I think things have come together," Cashman said. "Arriving early implies some guarantee in the future, and I've been around the block long enough to know that, listen, you just seize the moment. That's what we tried to do by reinforcing this team in June and July and seeing how far it would take us, and hopefully it would stay healthy, and so far, it's served us well.
"But in terms of arriving early, I restate: It doesn't guarantee anything in 2018 and beyond. We're excited about our talent, but you've got to keep them healthy, keep them productive, and that's a neat trick in its own self.”
They will look to perform that next neat trick Friday in Minute Maid Park. Stay tuned, and don't take your eyes off this bunch.
               
Scott Miller covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report. Follow Scott on Twitter and talk baseball.  


A photo posted by New York Yankees (@yankees)
Cleveland fans may find themselves regretting all those "3-1" jokes they made following the 2016 NBA Finals for years to come. 
The New York Yankees defeated the Cleveland Indians 5-2 at Progressive Field on Wednesday night to win Game 5 of the American League Division Series and complete the comeback after dropping the first two games of the series. 
New York's Instagram account had some fun at Cleveland's expense following the contest's final out, posting a picture of starter CC Sabathia along with the caption: "Final: Yankees 5, The Team That Blew A 2-0 Series Lead 2."
The Yankees also trolled Cleveland infielder Jose Ramirez via Twitter:
We're 3-0 at Yankee Stadium this year cupcake. https://t.co/059Mv76kUs
We like cupcakes. And champagne. https://t.co/P6ybRrBnkz
Start spreading the news. 
[Instagram] 



The Minnesota Twins were the only true Cinderella in this year's postseason. After losing 103 games in 2016, the Twinkies won 85 in 2017 and claimed the American League's second wild-card slot.
Minnesota, however, was promptly eliminated in the AL Wild Card Game by the New York Yankees.
The Yanks are young and hungry and knocked off the favored Cleveland Indians in the division series but hardly qualify as heavy underdogs with MLB's second-highest payroll.
Still, MLB history is littered with clubs that defied expectations and went on impressive, improbable October sprints.
With that in mind, let's dig into the past and rank baseball's 10 most shocking postseason runs in another installment of B/R's MLB Metrics 101 series. A few criteria:

Previous Season's Record: 76-86, fourth place, NL West
Result: Defeated Kansas City Royals in World Series, 4-3
Say what you want about even-year luck. The 2014 San Francisco Giants were coming off a season in which they finished 10 games under .500 and 16 games behind the archrival Los Angeles Dodgers in the NL West.
The Giants weren't exactly titans in the 2014 regular season either. They won 88 games and eked into the postseason as the Senior Circuit's second wild card.
That's when ace Madison Bumgarner slung them over his left shoulder, pitching two complete-game shutouts—including one in the do-or-die Wild Card Game—and finishing with a gutsy five-inning relief appearance in Game 7 of the World Series to seal the Giants' third Commissioner's Trophy in five seasons.
It was arguably the greatest postseason performance by any player ever, and it was certainly the most improbable of San Francisco's title trilogy. 

Previous Season's Record: 76-86, fifth place, NL West
Result: Lost to Boston Red Sox in the World Series, 4-0
Entering the 2007 season, the Colorado Rockies had played in just one postseason series, a 3-1 loss to the Atlanta Braves in the 1995 NLDS.
They were coming off an 86-loss season, and they were no one's idea of a favorite to taste October.
Colorado, however, pulled off an 11-game winning streak in September and grabbed the wild-card slot. The team then swept the Phillies in the division series and did the same to the Arizona Diamondbacks in the NLCS.
The Rockies' "Rocktober" magic ran out in the World Series, as they lost in four games to a superior Boston Red Sox team.
Still, a decade later, 2007 remains the high point in the franchise's history. 

Previous Season's Record: 70-92, sixth place, NL East
Result: Lost to Toronto Blue Jays in World Series, 4-2
Coming into 1993, the Philadelphia Phillies hadn't made the postseason in 10 years. They'd finished in the NL East cellar the year before.
The boo birds were perched in the City of Brotherly Love.
Instead of disappointing yet again, the Phils rode a motley crew that included spark-plug center fielder Lenny Dykstra and mulleted closer Mitch "Wild Thing" Williams to an NL East crown and, then, an upset 4-2 victory over the favored Atlanta Braves in the NLCS.
Sure, the season ended when Williams surrendered a walk-off homer to the Toronto Blue Jays' Joe Carter in Game 6 of the World Series. But the run provided a much-needed taste of winning for Philadelphia, which didn't make the playoffs again until 2007.

Previous Season's Record: 74-88, seventh place, AL West
Result: Defeated Atlanta Braves in World Series, 4-3
This wasn't the most improbable run in Twins history; we'll meet that later on this list.
But after a disastrous effort in 1990, Minnesota engineered a 21-game turnaround to win the AL West behind right-hander Jack Morris, center fielder Kirby Puckett and Rookie of the Year second baseman Chuck Knoblauch. 
The Twins defeated the Toronto Blue Jays 4-1 in the ALCS and capped their Cinderella season with a hard-fought seven-game World Series victory over the Braves.
Speaking of whom...

Previous Season's Record: 65-97, sixth place, NL West
Result: Lost to Minnesota Twins in World Series, 4-3
The 1990 Atlanta Braves defined "terrible," finishing 26 games off the pace in the NL West.
The following year, they rose to first place behind a stable of young arms headlined by Tom Glavine, John Smoltz and Steve Avery and an offense boosted by third baseman and NL MVP Terry Pendleton.
After defeating the Pirates in an incredibly well-pitched seven-game NLCS that featured four shutouts and three 1-0 finishes, the Braves lost in the World Series to their underdog counterpart, Minnesota.
Atlanta would later add Greg Maddux to its rotation and dominate the '90s, though it only won a single championship—in 1995. There was no Braves run more memorable—or more improbable—than '91.

Previous Season's Record: 79-83, fourth place, NL East
Result: Defeated New York Yankees in World Series, 4-2
After winning their first title in 1997, the then-Florida Marlins blew up the roster (sound familiar?) and suffered through five straight losing seasons.
After a fourth-place finish in 2002, the Fish fell as far as 10 games below .500 in the 2003 campaign but rallied to finish 91-71 and grab the NL Wild Card.
After finishing the defending NL champion Giants in the NLDS, Florida beat the Chicago Cubs in a seven-game NLCS that will always be remembered for Steve Bartman's ill-fated foul-ball grab.
The Marlins' final test was their toughest: a heavily favored New York Yankees squad that had won 101 games and featured a deep cast of stars.
Thanks to some clutch hitting and the exploits of 23-year-old right-hander Josh Beckett, who twirled a complete-game shutout in Game 6 at Yankee Stadium, the Marlins got their second ring.

Previous Season's Record: 75-87, fifth place, NL West
Result: Defeated Oakland Athletics in World Series, 4-0
After a dispiriting 1989 season, the Cincinnati Reds hadn't made the playoffs in a decade. The glory days of the Big Red Machine were long gone.
Cincinnati authored an impressive turnaround in 1990, winning 91 games and claiming the NL West flag. That would have been enough, but the Reds then proceeded to storm through the postseason, defeating the favored Pittsburgh Pirates in six games.
For the grand finale, Cincinnati swept the powerful defending champion Oakland A's in the World Series.
No one captured the Reds' underdog vibes better than bespectacled third baseman Chris Sabo, who hit .563 with two home runs against Oakland and probably should have been named World Series MVP.

Previous Season's Record: 66-96, fifth place, AL East
Result: Lost to Philadelphia Phillies in World Series, 4-1
Before he guided the Cubs to their curse-busting but not altogether improbable World Series win in 2016, manager Joe Maddon pulled the Tampa Bay Rays out of the baseball gutter.
Prior to the 2008 season, Tampa Bay had lost more than 90 games in every year of its existence. Thanks to Maddon's machinations and improved performances across the roster, the Rays won 97 games and beat out the big-spending Red Sox and Yankees for the AL East title.
They dropped the Chicago White Sox 3-1 in the ALDS and again bested Boston in a seven-game ALCS.
The run ended short of champagne and confetti when the Phillies defeated Tampa Bay in the World Series, but it kicked off a streak of six straight winning seasons for the small-market Rays.  

Previous Season's Record: 71-91, sixth place, AL West
Result: Defeated St. Louis Cardinals in World Series, 4-3
Coming into 1987, the Twins hadn't made the playoffs in 17 years, and they hadn't had a winning season since 1979.
They also hadn't won a franchise World Series since 1924, when they were located in Washington, D.C., and called the Senators. 
All that ho-hum history evaporated as the Twins won 85 games and edged the Royals to win a mediocre AL West. Then Minnesota defeated the 98-win Detroit Tigers 4-1 in the ALCS.
That set up a World Series matchup with the St. Louis Cardinals, which Minnesota won in seven games. The Twins made for an imperfect team that finished the regular season with a minus-20 run differential, which makes their title all the more incredible.
"That's what made us good," first baseman Kent Hrbek recently recalled, per Jim Souhan of the Star-Tribune. "We admitted our mistakes."

Previous Season's Record: 73-89, ninth place, NL
Result: Defeated Baltimore Orioles in World Series, 4-1
Yes, the "Miracle Mets" of 1969 won 100 games en route to their first title.
They were such a laughingstock prior to that, though, that their '69 run felt improbable all the way to the final pitch.
The 1968 Mets finished 73-89, and that was easily their best mark since entering the league in 1962. They lost 120 games that season and would lose 101 or more in four of the next five years.
The 1969 team, led by manager Gil Hodges and ace Tom Seaver, was off most prognosticators' radars coming out of spring. They were the Mets, after all, and featured a light-hitting lineup.
Yet, they shocked the world, claiming first place in the newly formed NL East as Seaver won the NL Cy Young Award. They then swept the Braves in the first-ever NLCS and beat the Baltimore Orioles 4-1 to hoist the trophy. 
Miraculous, indeed.
        
All statistics courtesy of Baseball-Reference.



It will be the historic franchise with 27 World Series titles against the one without a single ring for the American League title.
The New York Yankees completed their comeback against the Cleveland Indians on Wednesday with a 5-2 victory in Game 5 of the American League Division Series after dropping the first two contests. The Bronx Bombers will face the Houston Astros in the AL Championship Series with the winner set to advance to the Fall Classic.
Here is a look at the full ALCS schedule, per MLB.com:
            
Game 1: New York Yankees at Houston Astros; Friday, Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. ET on FS1
Game 2: New York Yankees at Houston Astros; Saturday, Oct. 14 at 4 p.m. ET on Fox
Game 3: Houston Astros at New York Yankees; Monday, Oct. 16 at 8 p.m. ET on FS1
Game 4: Houston Astros at New York Yankees; Tuesday, Oct. 17 at TBD on Fox/FS1
Game 5*: Houston Astros at New York Yankees; Wednesday, Oct. 18 at TBD on Fox/FS1
Game 6*: New York Yankees at Houston Astros; Friday, Oct. 20 at TBD on Fox/FS1
Game 7*: New York Yankees at Houston Astros; Saturday, Oct. 21 at TBD on Fox/FS1
*If necessary
Live streams will be available on Fox Sports Go.
                
The Astros already eliminated the Yankees' archrival Boston Red Sox, who won the AL East over New York this season. Houston also beat the Yankees in five of their seven regular-season matchups this year, although the postseason is a different type of game with increased bullpen usage and pressure-packed moments.
The bullpens figure to be a major storyline in the ALCS, considering New York finished with the third-best bullpen ERA in the AL in 2017, while Houston finished a mere 10th, per ESPN.com. New York demonstrated its bullpen prowess in Game 5 against the Indians when the combination of David Robertson and Aroldis Chapman pitched 4.2 scoreless innings to secure the victory.
It didn't even use Dellin Betances (2.87 ERA), Chad Green (1.83 ERA) or Tommy Kahnle (2.59 ERA) in the contest, which is a daunting prospect for the Astros. Houston's 101-61 record was 10 games better than New York's 91-71 mark in 2017, but the latter can shorten these ALCS games with its formidable bullpen if it seizes an early lead.
That formula will put plenty of pressure on Houston's starters and offense to dictate the tempo of the series in the early going.
Fortunately for the Astros, they have 2011 AL MVP and Cy Young winner Justin Verlander, 2015 AL Cy Young winner Dallas Keuchel and 2017 All-Star Lance McCullers Jr. to anchor the rotation and deal with the likes of Aaron Judge, Didi Gregorius and the rest of the Yankees lineup.
As for Houston's offense, it led all of baseball in runs scored this season and features a number of formidable pieces, including potential AL MVP Jose Altuve, Carlos Correa and George Springer.
Watching that powerful offense against the Yankees' mighty bullpen figures to be a treat for all baseball fans as they battle for a spot in the World Series.



The New York Yankees became the 10th team in Major League Baseball history to erase a 0-2 series deficit in a best-of-five format with a 5-2 win over the Cleveland Indians in Game 5 of the American League Division Series on Wednesday at Progressive Field in Cleveland. 
Shortstop Didi Gregorius—who had one hit in the series' first four games—spearheaded the Bronx Bombers' victorious effort with a pair of home runs off Indians starter Corey Kluber, including a two-run crush job in the third inning. 
Didi putting the team on his back! 

#ALDS https://t.co/l0xzrU80vL
The Indians had a glimmer of hope trailing 3-2 entering the ninth inning, but Brett Gardner capped off an epic 12-pitch at-bat against Cody Allen with a base hit to right field that scored two thanks to a throwing error by Jay Bruce.  
On the 12th pitch of the at-bat, Brett Gardner delivered! 

#ALDS https://t.co/sT7nBHu9QI
Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan broke down the Indians' recent futility in closeout games following yet another missed opportunity on home turf: 
The Cleveland Indians have had a chance to clinch their last two playoff series a total of six times. They are now 0-6 in those games.
The Yankees, meanwhile, were happy to poke fun at Cleveland's shortcomings: 
A photo posted by New York Yankees (@yankees)
On the mound, the Yankees received something of a truncated gem from CC Sabathia, who tied his season high and postseason career high with nine strikeouts. 
However, Sabathia seemingly ran out of gas in the fifth inning when he conceded four straight one-out singles, including a pair of RBI base knocks to Roberto Perez and Giovanny Urshela. 
Despite the hiccup, Sabathia became the first pitcher in MLB postseason history to register at least nine strikeouts in fewer than five innings, according to ESPN Stats & Info. 
Kluber also racked up Ks with six punchouts of his own, but a pair of costly mistakes with Gregorius at the plate gave New York just enough breathing room. 
MLB.com's Andrew Simon and MLB Network's Jon Morosi both noted how rare that kind of power surge was: 
Didi  Gregorius is the 7th shortstop to have a multi-HR postseason game. Carlos Correa was the last in Game 4 of the 2015 ALDS.
Last @Yankees hitter with a multi-HR game when facing elimination in postseason: Jason Giambi, 2003 ALCS Game 7. @MLB
And while all Yankees not named Gregorius and Gardner mustered two hits combined, the relief combination of David Robertson (2.2 IP, two strikeouts) and Aroldis Chapman (2.0 IP, four strikeouts) overshadowed those struggles. 
Dating back to the start of September, Chapman has registered 30 strikeouts and zero earned runs over his last 15 appearances.  
That's the kind of efficiency the Yankees will need if they want to have a shot of upsetting the Houston Astros and punching a ticket to their first World Series since 2009. 
Safely through, the Yankees will now prepare for a quick turnaround as they get set to travel to Minute Maid Park for Game 1 of the ALCS on Friday night. 



New York Yankees slugger Aaron Judge added another record to his collection Wednesday night. This one, unfortunately, will be added to his collection of strikeout records.
Judge's strikeout in the top of the seventh inning was his 16th of the Yankees' American League Division Series matchup with the Cleveland Indians, setting an all-time record for most whiffs in a single postseason series, per MLB.com's Jordan Bastian.
Judge, 25, put together a rookie season that saw him thrust himself into AL MVP contention. He hit .284/.422/.627 with 52 home runs and 114 runs batted in, setting a single-season record for homers by a rookie.
However, Judge's propensity for striking out nearly derailed his campaign. He struck out in 37 consecutive games across July and August, setting an all-time record with that streak.
Those issues were a little less prevalent in a return to form in September, but Judge has been nowhere close to MVP-caliber during this postseason. His seventh-inning strikeout put him at 1-for-19 in the series.
"He continues to be patient," manager Joe Girardi told reporters. "They're making a lot of good pitches on him, there’s no doubt about that. But he’s maintaining the strike zone when he gets a pitch to hit—and a lot of times, he's able to hit it."
Judge's lone hit of the series was a two-run double in the Yankees' Game 4 victory.



Fair or not, the reputation was there. It was there before, and it was certainly there Tuesday night and Wednesday morning.           
Stephen Strasburg was the guy who doesn't pitch in October.
That's gone now.
Fair or not, the reputation remains. It was there before this week, and it hasn't been erased yet.
The Washington Nationals are the team that doesn't win in October.
Strasburg wrote a different story Wednesday. Now the Nationals need to write a different story Thursday in Game 5.
They can end someone else's season, just the way theirs ended in 2012 and 2014 and again last year. They can leave another fanbase disappointed or even angry, the way theirs has been all too often in this sometimes cruel month.
Strasburg made all that possible, with his seven brilliant innings in Game 4 of his team's National League Division Series against the Chicago Cubs on Wednesday at Wrigley Field. The Nationals made all that possible, with a 5-0 win that set up up Game 5 at Nationals Park.
Now Strasburg is the ace who saved a season. Now the Nationals can go back to being the team with as good a chance as any to win it all, which is how a lot of us saw them when the regular season ended 10 days ago.
It all started with five words from Strasburg on Wednesday morning.
"Just give me the ball," he said at a pregame press conference, repeating what he said he told Nationals pitching coach Mike Maddux a few hours earlier.
Strasburg doesn't say much, as Nats manager Dusty Baker said in his own press conference. But those five words said plenty, and Strasburg's seven brilliant innings against the Cubs said even more.
Just give him the ball. Strasburg has often pitched like an ace, ever since he struck out 14 in his 2010 major league debut. But could he act like an ace?
The shutdown that cost him a chance to pitch in the 2012 postseason wasn't Strasburg's idea, but plenty of people in baseball—especially other big-time pitchers—wondered why he didn't speak up publicly against it. The partially torn pronator tendon that cost him the 2016 postseason wasn't his fault, but it added to the reputation.

Fair or not, it was there.
He was great when he pitched. But could you count on him?
So when the Nationals announced after Tuesday's rainout that Strasburg wouldn't pitch in an elimination game because he was "under the weather," you can imagine what everyone thought. Actually, you don't have to imagine.
As Ron Darling said right at the start of the TBS broadcast Wednesday: "There's absolutely no one in the history of the game that has ever missed this kind of start...because of the flu."
Yeah. By that time, we knew Strasburg wasn't missing the start at all. The Nationals said a change in the antibiotics Strasburg was given had done the trick. He woke up Wednesday feeling better. He was indeed going to pitch.
Some people wondered how he would do. Some people probably hoped he wouldn't do well.
I texted a friend and told him I thought Strasburg would pitch well.
"Once he's on the mound, he's usually fine," I said.
He was a lot better than just fine, and you could see it right from the start. It was 1-2-3 in the first inning, with strikeouts of Kris Bryant and Anthony Rizzo. It was 1-2-3 in the third inning, with three more strikeouts.
It was domination, with a changeup the Cubs just couldn't hit.
As TBS analyst Pedro Martinez tweeted after the game:
Outstanding outing tonight by Strasburg. He was consistent, attacking the strike zone and with a strong state of mind during the game
Pedro, by the way, had a 3.46 postseason ERA in his Hall of Fame career. Strasburg's postseason ERA: 0.47 in three starts.
So yeah, Strasburg can handle big games. Yeah, he enjoys pitching in them.
No one ever should have doubted that.
"Games like this, you have to go out and give it everything you have, whatever it is," Strasburg said.
Everything Strasburg has is quite often enough. He was 15-4 with a 2.52 ERA in his 28 regular-season starts this year. He struck out 204 in 175.1 innings. He has that fastball he can throw as hard as 99 mph, that slider he can throw at 91, that changeup.
Oh, that changeup.
Check out this tweet from Inside Edge:
Stephen Strasburg's changeup... quite the weapon against the #Cubs this season.  #NLDS https://t.co/575zcJdY8c
So the best thing the Cubs have going for them in Game 5 is that Strasburg won't be pitching again. But the Nationals still have Gio Gonzalez, whose 2.96 ERA ranked fifth in the National League. They have Max Scherzer, who will be on two days' rest but is expected to be available out of the bullpen.
They have that lineup that dominated all season but hasn't yet really shown up against the Cubs. Trea Turner and Bryce Harper and Daniel Murphy and Ryan Zimmerman and Anthony Rendon...it's on those guys now.
They can make this their October, just as Stephen Strasburg chose Wednesday to make this his.
Whether the Nationals win or lose Thursday, what happened Wednesday will forever come up when we think of Strasburg. Just give him the ball.
They gave it to him. When he gave it back, their season was saved.
Now it's up to the rest of them to figure out what they do with it.
                             
Danny Knobler covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report.
Follow Danny on Twitter and talk baseball.



Houston Astros first baseman Yulieski Gurriel set himself apart from any rookie who has come before him Monday, when the Astros beat the Boston Red Sox 5-4 and advanced to the Championship Series for the fifth time in franchise history. 
Gurriel went 3-for-5 with a double, a triple, and a run scored in Monday's victory. While doing so, he also became the first rookie to record a hit in six consecutive postseason at-bats, per the Elias Sports Bureau (via ESPN.com).
Only three other rookies had reached the milestone of logging a hit in five consecutive at-bats in the postseason. Among them were the New York Yankees' Brian Doyle (1978), the Los Angeles Dodgers' Chad Fonville (1995) and Houston teammate Carlos Correa (2015).
Gurriel turned 33 during his first full season in the league, but that didn't stop him from being a productive member of Houston's high-powered offense, which scored a league-high 896 runs in 2017. Over 139 games he slashed .299/.332/.486 while mashing 18 home runs. 
The Cuba native's efforts at the plate were a significant improvement compared to the brief stint he made in the Show at the latter end of the 2016 season.
During that short run, he posted just a .262 batting average and unimpressive .677 OPS over 36 games. Gurriel's second go-around resulted in him hitting a team-high 43 doubles and notching 75 RBI, which ranked sixth among his fellow Astros.
He has carried his impressive performance into the postseason. After starting each contest during Houston's four-game series against the Red Sox, Gurriel has gone 9-for-17 (.556) and struck out just once.
The Astros will face the winner of the series between the Cleveland Indians and New York Yankees.



New Miami Marlins owner Derek Jeter reportedly won't stop any of his players from kneeling during the national anthem.
On Wednesday, Zach Braziller of the New York Post reported Jeter said he wouldn't take issue with the Marlins protesting racial inequality by kneeling during the song.
Mark Townsend of Yahoo Sports noted the comments came when Jeter was speaking at a Turn 2 Foundation charity event. Townsend also pointed out Jeter has spoken out about racism he dealt with growing up and has publicly supported Colin Kaepernick in the past.
Kneeling during the national anthem has been a primary talking point in the NFL ever since Kaepernick first started doing so last year as a member of the San Francisco 49ers. While he doesn't have a team this season as a free agent, many players have done the same in 2017.
That has especially been the case since President Donald Trump inserted himself into the topic by saying at a rally NFL owners should "get that son of a bitch off the field right now" if a player kneels. He has also repeatedly used his Twitter account to discuss the topic.
As for Major League Baseball, only Oakland Athletics catcher Bruce Maxwell has knelt during the anthem to this point.
Even though the issue hasn't been as prevalent in his league, Jeter's comments as a team owner stand out after Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said his players would be benched if they knelt during the anthem. However, Todd Archer of ESPN.com reported Wednesday that Jones "said his stance on the national anthem protests was rooted in a desire to play the bad guy and deflect attention from the players."
Jeter, on the other hand, is apparently fine with his players kneeling during the anthem and didn't feel the need to issue a threat like Jones did.



Stephen Strasburg didn't know if he would pitch Wednesday, but he and Michael A. Taylor saved the Washington Nationals' season.
Despite dealing with an apparent illness, the pitcher threw seven scoreless innings with 12 strikeouts while leading the Nationals to a 5-0 Game 4 victory over the Chicago Cubs. Tuesday's rainout gave him an extra day to get back to full strength, and he made it count on another rainy night in Chicago.
Taylor then put the game away with an eighth-inning grand slam off Wade Davis.
The win ties the division series at 2-2 and sets up the all-important Game 5 on Thursday night with the Nationals trying to clinch at home.
Strasburg was the big story coming in due to the uncertainty of whether he would even start. Even after Game 4 was pushed back a day, the All-Star was reportedly too sick to pitch, leaving Tanner Roark to take the mound as he would have on Tuesday.
He eventually decided to pitch after being given anti-inflammatories and fluid IVs, per Paul Sullivan of the Chicago Tribune.
The Nats starter responded with one of the best starts from anyone this postseason. Former pitcher Dallas Braden made a bold statement about the effort:
Strasburg “sniffles” game &gt; jordan flu game. Don’t @ me
There were no question marks once Strasburg got himself going:
Strasburg is sitting 95-97 this afternoon, right in line with his season average. Little sign of any illness.
Strasburg has been unreal
This is the Stephen Strasburg that was promised.
He struck out three batters in three different innings, ending with a total of 12 strikeouts, and kept the Cubs scoreless through seven. 
The changeup was especially impressive throughout the start, which led to eight of those strikeouts, per Dan Cohen of WREX:
Touch Stephen Strasburg’s changeup. He dares ya. #NLDS https://t.co/hIqgbKXzc5
I'm not sure there's a single better pitch in baseball today than Stephen Strasburg's changeup. It moves like it's possessed.
In two starts this series, Strasburg allowed zero earned runs in 14 innings with 22 Ks.
It was Cubs starter Jake Arrieta who wasn't sharp on the mound after dealing with hamstring issues, walking five batters in just four innings. He was fortunate to escape with just one unearned run allowed on a third-inning error by Addison Russell. 
The right-hander gave way to Jon Lester in the fifth inning, and the veteran did everything he could to keep the Cubs in the game. He was perfect through his first three innings and even picked a runner off in the eighth before leaving with another runner on first.
However, it unraveled from there as a pair of Carl Edwards Jr. walks loaded the bases for Taylor. The young outfielder took advantage of the opportunity with a two-out grand slam off Davis:
INSURANCE SLAM.

#NLDS https://t.co/tHeozTFSMX
The big shot was certainly a surprise, especially considering the matchup:
In 24 previous postseason appearances as a reliever Wade Davis had never given up a HR. #Cubs #Nationals
Michael Taylor just hit a ball out the opposite way. On a cold, windy day. Against one of the best closers in the game. Attaboy, kid.
Although Davis entered with a 1-0 count, it was a game-changer not normally seen from the closer.
Washington's bullpen fared much better, keeping the Cubs at just three hits and zero runs for the game. Kris Bryant and Anthony Rizzo combined to go 0-for-7 with a walk in the shutout loss.
The teams will now travel and play Game 5 without a day off, with the decisive battle set for Thursday at 8 p.m. ET in Washington.
Game 1 starter Kyle Hendricks will likely get the ball for Chicago, while the Nationals will have Tanner Roark and Gio Gonzalez available, plus a lot of momentum.



The Cleveland Indians will have one of their best hitters available as they face a must-win game against the New York Yankees in the American League Division Series on Wednesday night. 
The Indians announced their starting lineup for Game 5 and Edwin Encarnacion is the designated hitter batting fourth:
Ready to rock. #RallyTogether https://t.co/uqsT58rRCj
It's Encarnacion's first game back since he suffered an ankle injury while trying to avoid getting doubled up no second base in the bottom of the first inning. He exited and Michael Brantley took over as the designated hitter.
After scoring 13 runs in the opening two games, it's no coincidence the Indians have put three combined runs on the board in their losses in Games 3 and 4. Encarnacion led the team in home runs (38), RBI (107) and was third in slugging percentage (.504).
Brantley also entered the postseason having registered three at-bats in the final month of the regular season. His rustiness has shown in the playoffs, where he's 1-for-11 in 12 plate appearances.
Between having home-field advantage, getting Encarnacion back and starting ace Corey Kluber, Indians fans should feel good about the team's odds of returning to the American League Championship Series.



Do the New York Yankees have the audacity to knock out the mighty Cleveland Indians?
The New Yorkers played two impressive games at Yankee Stadium and tied their series with the Tribe, but if the Yankees are going to continue their run, they are going to have to figure out a way to win at Progressive Field and take three games in a row from the American League Central champions.
Based on Cleveland's sensational form in the latter part of the regular season that included a 22-game winning streak, it does not seem likely. However, when the two teams take the field at 8:08 p.m. ET in a game that will be televised by FS1, the pressure on the Indians will be palpable.
Cleveland went all the way to the 10th inning of the seventh game of last year's World Series before falling to the Chicago Cubs, and it looked like that defeat was motivating the team through its end-of-season surge.
Now the Indians are fighting for their lives, and the Yankees are playing for franchise glory and a spot in the American League Championship Series against the Houston Astros.

The Yankees are sending veteran lefthander CC Sabathia (14-5, 3.69 earned-run average) to the mound against Cleveland ace Corey Kluber (18-4, 2.25 ERA), a strong candidate to win the Cy Young award.
Sabathia will make the 21st postseason start of his career, and he looked good in Game 2 when he kept the Indians to two earned runs in 5.1 innings of work in Game 2. Kluber gave up six earned runs in 2.2 innings of that same game, and that was the right-hander's worst performance of the year.
"It's a hell of a lot of fun to be in it than to be sitting on the side. I am just glad I get the opportunity to participate and not watch," Sabathia said, per George A. King III of the New York Post. "Because watching these games will give you an ulcer. Pitching in them is a lot more fun."
Kluber explained that he didn't have his best stuff in Game 2: "I didn't pitch well. I didn't have good command, didn't throw the ball where I wanted to. We all would have liked to have won the third game in New York and not be here in Game 5, [but] this is what everybody plays for."
The Yankees have demonstrated their ability to hit the long ball, as they have hit eight home runs in the series. Gary Sanchez and Greg Bird each have two, and rookie slugger Aaron Judge has one.
The Indians have hit five home runs to this point in the series, as Jay Bruce has two of the long balls, but none of his teammates have more than one.
Yankees manager Joe Girardi says there is respect for Kluber, but the Yankees have confidence that they can survive and advance.
"We know we're facing a great pitcher," Girardi said, per Anthony Castrovince of MLB.com. "But there's a lot of confidence in that room, and they pick each other up, and they grind out at-bats, and pitchers pick each other up and make big pitches."
The Yankees-Indians Game 5 can be live-streamed at MLB.TV.
Francisco Lindor gets the Indians back in it! https://t.co/zVPUZrXQZd
      
Prediction
The mental and psychological game will be fought up until Kluber goes to the mound for the fifth and decisive game in the ALDS.
The Yankees have their proud history and momentum, while the Indians have perhaps the most talented team in baseball, their close-but-no-cigar finish last year and a brilliant starting pitcher.
The Tribe also has a history of falling short, as their last World Series championship came in 1948.
They have to win this game and two more series to end that dry spell.
The pressure on the Indians is thick and nasty. But the presence of Kluber, Francisco Lindor, Jose Ramirez and a powerful bullpen should overpower the substantial challenge from the Yankees.
While New York's power has been impressive, this is Cleveland's year. The Yankees will have to do what the other guys have had to do for so long—wait until next year.



The Washington Nationals will start Stephen Strasburg on Wednesday in Game 4 of the NLDS against the Chicago Cubs.
Carrie Muskat of MLB.com passed along confirmation of the decision after MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported Strasburg was expected to take the mound.
The move represents a change of heart, as Nats manager Dusty Baker said Tuesday he would start Tanner Roark since Strasburg is ill, according to ESPN.com's Eddie Matz.
Game 4 was supposed to take place Tuesday at Wrigley Field in Chicago, but rain forced a postponement and moved the contest to Wednesday.
Due to the rescheduling, Strasburg will be able to pitch on normal rest whereas he would have only had three days of recovery had the game taken place Tuesday.
On Tuesday, Baker mentioned that several of his players are currently sick: "A lot of my team is under the weather with the change of weather, and the air conditioning in the hotel, and the air conditioning here. It's just this time of the year for mold around Chicago—I think it's mold. I mean, I have it, too."
Strasburg is coming off a dominant outing in Game 1 of the NLDS, as he went seven innings, allowing three hits, one walk and two runs, neither of which were earned. Strasburg also struck out 10, but he took the loss in a 3-0 defeat.
Washington trails Chicago 2-1 in the series, making Wednesday a must-win affair for a Nationals team that has never advanced beyond the NLDS since moving to Washington in 2005.
The 29-year-old Strasburg is coming off the best regular season of his career, as he went 15-4 with a 2.52 ERA, 1.02 WHIP and 204 strikeouts.
He will be opposed by Jake Arrieta, who is making his first start in two weeks due to a hamstring injury.



Manager John Farrell led the Boston Red Sox to the 2013 World Series title, but that didn't buy him enough job security to get to the 2018 season.
Boston fired Farrell on Wednesday, two days after the Houston Astros eliminated it from the playoffs in four games.
Mark Feinsand of MLB.com provided a statement from Farrell after the decision:
Statement from John Farrell (part 1 of 2): https://t.co/ifAEwpXhXY
Statement from John Farrell (part 2 of 2): https://t.co/ZHV721a1Pw
The move comes after Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports suggested in May that Farrell was potentially on the hot seat. The Red Sox boasted a winning record at the time but were still just in third place in the American League East. The fact Farrell was on the hot seat despite a solid record in the early going was a testament to how high expectations were, especially after Boston traded for ace Chris Sale during the offseason.
Rosenthal cited two incidents that "raised questions about Farrell's leadership."
One was the team's continued dispute with Baltimore Orioles slugger Manny Machado, which featured multiple testy exchanges between the squads. The other was a heated exchange in the dugout between Farrell and pitcher Drew Pomeranz.
Red Sox president of baseball operations Dave Dombrowski gave Farrell a vote of confidence at the time, per Tim Britton of the Providence Journal, but it didn't last into the offseason.
Even after his firing, Farrell leaves with a successful tenure. 
Boston hired him in October 2012 after one disastrous season with Bobby Valentine as manager. The Red Sox went 69-93 with Valentine in 2012, but Farrell completed an incredible turnaround and led them to the 2013 World Series title in his first season.
Boston suffered through losing campaigns in 2014 and 2015 but bounced back in 2016 with an American League East crown and 93-69 record. It finished 2017 with the same mark and another division title, although it lost in the AL Division Series.
He was also the team's pitching coach from 2007 to 2010, a span that saw a World Series title and three playoff appearances.



After each divisional series began with two-game leads, the New York Yankees have emerged as a possible upset contender as they forced Game 5 thanks to excellent pitching.
The Bronx Bombers have responded in a big way since blowing a five-run lead in Game 2, which puts the pressure back on the Cleveland Indians to prove themselves as the American League favorite. The winner of Wednesday's ALDS matchup will move on to battle the Houston Astros, who used a late comeback Monday to finish off the Boston Red Sox.
It will not be an easy task for the Yankees, who once again have to overcome likely Cy Young winner Corey Kluber. Yet, the pitching prowess of New York gives as good of a chance as ever to complete the impressive turnaround. Take a look at what Vegas thinks of that chance, according to OddsShark.com.
       
Yankees at Indians Viewing Guide
When: Wednesday, Oct. 10 at 8 p.m. ET
Television: FS1
Live Stream: Fox Sports Go
Odds: Yankees 147/100, Indians 27/50
Game 5 Preview
No pitcher instilled more fear in AL opponents this season than Kluber, who posted a stout 18-4 record with a 2.25 ERA this season. Even more impressive was the 0.84 ERA Kluber finished with in six September starts leading into the postseason.
Naturally, the shellacking the righty endured in Game 2 came as a giant shock. Kluber was tattooed for seven hits, six runs and home runs to Aaron Hicks and Gary Sanchez in just 2.2 innings.
As baseball writer Jayson Stark noted, Kluber has not been hit that hard in quite some time:
Corey Kluber:
6 runs allowed in September, 129 outs
6 runs allowed today, 8 outs
How mysterious is baseball?
Kluber hopes a second go-around against the Yankees, a team he allowed just three runs in 17 innings to in two 2017 regular season starts, will translate into redemption on Wednesday, per Alec Brzezinski of Sporting News:
"I think we do that constantly throughout the year. That's part of being a starting pitcher. The way we approach it is you get to pitch once every five games, but those other four games, you're learning, you're trying to pick up on tendencies, things like that"We talk a lot amongst the starters about other teams and their lineups and maybe the way we want to attack them, what they're trying to do, things like that. So I think it's no different now. That's kind of the way we always go about it."
For a pitcher as talented as Kluber, expecting improvement in his next start should be a given, which is bad news for the Yankees. It will be up to CC Sabathia to help save New York's season.
The 37-year-old lefty already got the best of Kluber in Game 2, allowing three hits and two earned runs in 5.1 innings. Sabathia only had three starts this season of at least seven innings, but he does not need to go the distance for the Yankees to be successful in Game 5.
New York has arguably the best bullpen in baseball, as it can trot out a number of flame-throwing arms. Take Game 4 for example, as the Yankees' power pitching was on display without Aroldis Chapman or Chad Green taking the hill, per MLB.com's Daren Willman:
The slowest fastball the @Yankees threw tonight was 96 MPH... That is completely absurd.
The Yankees bullpen should be plenty rested after Luis Severino and Masahiro Tanaka combined for 14.1 innings in the last two games. On the contrary, Cleveland has had to delve into its relief pitching over the same span after Trevor Bauer and Carlos Carrasco combined for a mere 7.1 frames.
Either way, both teams need star players to break out of slumps to generate any consistent offense. 
Aaron Judge is mired in a 1-for-15 start in the ALDS, while Cleveland's two most dangerous hitters have also been iced in the series, via ESPN Stats and Info and ESPN's Jordan Zirm:
Aaron Judge's 12 K are the most by a Yankees player in a single playoff series all-time.
Frankie Lindor and Jose Ramirez in the ALDS have gone a combined 3-31 and are hitting .094/.222/.202 with 12 strikeouts
Of course, Francisco Lindor smacked a grand slam in Game 2, and Judge lined a huge two-run double in Game 4, so neither of these guys have been totally ineffective. Yet either getting hot would give his team a massive boost in Game 5.
Starting pitching has to favor the Indians, but the Yankees look to have an advantage in the bullpen. So who has the edge?
Playing at Progressive Field is a major plus for Cleveland, who boasted a 49-32 mark for the AL's second best home record behind the Yankees. That also helps Kluber, who is normally dominant at home with a 10-2 record and 1.81 ERA in the regular season. 
Expect Kluber to go deep into the game while the Indians are able to muster a run or two off of Sabathia before being shut down by the New York bullpen. The contest will come down to the final pitches, but look for the experience of the Indians to take over against a Yankees team starting five key players in Greg Bird, Didi Gregorius, Hicks, Judge and Sanchez who are playing in their first postseason series.
       
Statistics are courtesy of MLB.com unless otherwise noted. 



It's fun speculating where MLB free agents might land given the latest rumblings on the rumor mill and cursory areas of need on each team's roster.
It's a bit trickier trying to cross players off a team's wish list, but we've taken a crack at naming one free agent each club should avoid this offseason.
The idea was to pick a player who hypothetically fills a need and looks like a fit on the surface but doesn't look like an ideal target upon closer examination.
That was determined based on a combination of advanced metrics, previous performance, franchise outlook and other factors.

Baltimore Orioles: SP Jason Vargas
A brutal 5.70 starters' ERA and the impending departures of Chris Tillman, Jeremy Hellickson, Ubaldo Jimenez and potentially Wade Miley—he has a $12 million team option—make starting pitching an obvious question for the Orioles.
Veteran Jason Vargas is not the answer.
The 34-year-old has a 42.5 percent fly-ball rate for his career—10th among active starters with at least 500 innings pitched—and his 1.35 home runs per nine innings this season was seventh-highest in the AL.
That wouldn't play well in homer-friendly Camden Yards.
      
Boston Red Sox: RF J.D. Martinez
According to Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe, the Red Sox "would appear to be" in the hunt for free-agent slugger J.D. Martinez.
It makes sense the team would be looking to add some pop after taking a major step backward in the power department, but doing so by spending $100 million-plus on a designated hitter is not the answer.
And that's what Martinez would be in Boston.
With Andrew Benintendi (9 DRS), Jackie Bradley Jr. (9 DRS) and Mookie Betts (31 DRS) making up perhaps the best defensive outfield in baseball, Martinez would be relegated to one-way status.
Spending on a power-hitting first baseman like Eric Hosmer or Carlos Santana makes more sense.
     
New York Yankees: 1B Eric Hosmer
Greg Bird still deserves a shot at proving he can be the first baseman of the future for the Yankees, and a strong postseason has strengthened his case.
However, Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports wrote that "the Yankees are said to love (Eric) Hosmer, who brings the kind of clutch and leadership they seek" after speculating of a possible bidding war with the rival Red Sox.
As the Yankees continue to keep one eye on the vaunted 2018/19 free-agent class, spending north of $100 million on Hosmer now might not be in the team's best interest.
Besides, starting pitching should be priority No. 1 this winter.
      
Tampa Bay Rays: RP Steve Cishek
Steve Cishek posted a 1.09 ERA and 0.81 WHIP in 26 appearances after being traded from the Mariners to the Rays in exchange for Erasmo Ramirez.
With 121 career saves and a thin free-agent crop of proven closers behind Wade Davis, there's a good chance someone will be willing to give him multiple years and late-inning money this winter.
The Rays don't need to be that team.
They already have a standout closer in Alex Colome and they've made a living on building a bullpen from scrap-heap signings and waiver claims. No reason to deviate from that approach.
      
Toronto Blue Jays: RF Jay Bruce
The Blue Jays have shown interest in Jay Bruce in the past and he was almost traded to Toronto during the 2016 offseason before that deal fell apart.
Right fielder Jose Bautista will not have his $17 million mutual option exercised and a left-field platoon led by Steve Pearce and Ezequiel Carrera produced a 95 OPS+, so there's room to improve the corner outfield production.
However, Bruce remains a fairly one-dimensional player, and the team would be better served targeting someone like Jarrod Dyson at a lower cost while also giving a long look to in-house players like Anthony Alford and Teoscar Hernandez.

Chicago White Sox: C Miguel Montero
Omar Narvaez hit .277 with a .373 on-base percentage over 295 plate appearances while posting a 1.2 WAR as the primary catcher for the White Sox this season.
However, he was one of the league's worst pitch-framers and threw out just 24 percent (16 of 68) of base stealers, so don't be surprised if the White Sox look for an experienced backstop to anchor what will be a young staff.
Chris Iannetta, Alex Avila and Nick Hundley are among the options the team could pursue. One veteran they should steer clear of is Miguel Montero.
The two-time All-Star became a distraction in the Cubs clubhouse when he passed the buck on his inability to control the running game (5-of-63 caught stealing), eventually leading to his release. That's not the guy you want molding a young staff.
      
Cleveland Indians: 1B Carlos Santana
Carlos Santana will be one of the more interesting free agents this winter.
With terrific on-base skills, 30-homer power and a strong track record of good health—he's averaged 153 games over the past seven seasons—he's a strong candidate for a four- or perhaps even five-year deal with an annual value well north of the $12 million he made this season.
Despite their recent success, the Indians are still not a free-spending team.
It won't be easy to let Santana walk given what he's meant to the team's success, but with Bryan Shaw headed for free agency this offseason and both Andrew Miller and Cody Allen due to leave the following winter, putting that money toward the bullpen makes more sense.
     
Detroit Tigers: RP Fernando Rodney
Death, taxes and someone giving Fernando Rodney an opportunity to close games.
With a rebuild now in full swing, the Tigers will be looking for bargains on this year's free-agent market, and that includes addressing the need for an experienced closer.
Steve Cishek, Brandon Kintzler, Matt Belisle, Juan Nicasio and Sergio Romo might all be willing to settle for a one-year deal if it means a chance to close. That's a long enough list of options that a reunion with Rodney should be nowhere near Plan A.
The 40-year-old saved 39 games this season, but he also blew six saves and posted a 4.23 ERA. He simply doesn't have the same upside as a sign-and-flip closer and that's what the Tigers should be seeking.
     
Kansas City Royals: CF Lorenzo Cain
If the Royals are going to make a run at re-signing one of their free agents, it shouldn't be Lorenzo Cain.
With a rebuild in the works, the 31-year-old Cain does not have age on his side relative to fellow free agents Eric Hosmer (27) and Mike Moustakas (29).
His skill set won't age as well, either.
As a player who relies heavily on his speed and defense as the driving forces behind his value, the cliff will be a steep one once he reaches it.
For a contender who views Cain as the potential missing piece, it's worth handing out a four-year deal and hoping he helps win a title on the front end. For the Royals, that type of contract just doesn't make sense.
     
Minnesota Twins: RP Wade Davis
The Twins should count their lucky stars they were able to reach the postseason with the unconventional veteran duo of Brandon Kintzler (28/32 SV, 5.4 K/9) and Matt Belisle (9/14 SV, 91.0 mph fastball) closing out games.
With Kintzler traded to the Nationals and Belisle on a one-year deal, addressing the ninth-inning role will be a top priority this winter.
However, shelling out a megadeal to land Wade Davis doesn't make sense for a team that's still building for the future. Arriving as a contender sooner than expected shouldn't change the team's big-picture plans.
Targeting a lower-cost veteran on a shorter deal and hoping hard-throwing prospects John Curtiss and J.T. Chargois can eventually emerge as the leaders of the bullpen is a better approach.

Houston Astros: RP Tony Watson
Signing Tony Watson should be Plan C for the Astros this offseason in their search for a quality left-handed reliever.
With no other pressing needs to address and given the team's standing as a legitimate title contender in both the short and long term, there's no reason they should have to settle for their third choice.
Watson pitched well after joining the Dodgers at the trade deadline, but he still finished 2017 with a 4.45 FIP and a career-high 9.7 hits allowed per nine innings. He's a good pitcher, but he's not the same dominant force he was a few years ago.
      
Los Angeles Angels: 3B Eduardo Nunez
Eduardo Nunez is the kind of player who fits on all 30 teams thanks to his defensive versatility and a solid mix of batting average, speed and gap power offensively.
He's the wrong player for the Angels to target in their search for a third baseman, though.
Even if Justin Upton forgoes his opt-out clause and sticks around, this is still an Angels team that finished 24th in the majors with 186 home runs and 11th in the AL at 4.4 runs per game.
They should be looking for more of a middle-of-the-order presence at the hot corner, and both Mike Moustakas and Todd Frazier fit the bill among this year's free-agent crop.
     
Oakland Athletics: 1B Yonder Alonso
Jeff Passan of Yahoo Sports wrote in July that the Athletics had "expressed interest" in an extension with Yonder Alonso, shortly before he was traded to the Seattle Mariners.
That may lead to some speculation of a possible reunion this offseason, but the A's would be wise to steer clear.
The 30-year-old posted an .866 OPS with 28 home runs in a breakout season offensively, but a quick look at his first- and second-half splits raise more than a few eyebrows.
Give Matt Olson the starting first base job, keep your options open in the outfield and let someone else pay for Alonso's career year.
     
Seattle Mariners: SP Jaime Garcia
It's no secret the Mariners will be looking for starting pitching help after they used a whopping 17 different starters during an injury-plagued season.
James Paxton, Felix Hernandez and Mike Leake are locked into three spots on the staff, and the front office will likely value durability in whoever it chooses to target in free agency.
While Jaime Garcia has topped 150 innings each of the past two seasons, he doesn't exactly have a sterling track record when it comes to avoiding the disabled list.
The 31-year-old is capable of producing at a middle-of-the-rotation level, but the M's are better suited going after someone with less medical baggage.
      
Texas Rangers: SP Andrew Cashner
If you're someone who still only looks at surface-level numbers, Andrew Cashner had a great season.
The 31-year-old won 11 games and finished ninth in the AL with a 3.40 ERA while playing his home games in hitter-friendly Arlington.
However, a look below the surface reveals some troubling peripherals.
His 4.61 FIP is a good indication that negative regression is coming, and among 58 qualified starters, he ranked near the bottom in strikeout rate (4.5 K/9, 57th), xFIP (5.30, 57th) and swinging strike rate (6.1%, 58th).
The Rangers need pitching help, but they should let someone else pay for that unsustainable ERA.

Atlanta Braves: 3B Todd Frazier
The Braves ranked 29th in the majors this season with a .655 OPS from the third base position.
With Freddie Freeman, Ozzie Albies and Dansby Swanson entrenched around the rest of the infield, pursuing a veteran third baseman like Todd Frazier might seem like an obvious move.
Austin Riley is the future at the hot corner, though.
Riley, 20, posted a .786 OPS with 20 home runs and 74 RBI between High-A and Double-A and he has legitimate star potential. He could be ready by 2019.
Frazier would be a nice stopgap on a one-year deal, but he'll likely receive multiyear offers, and there's no reason to block Riley when they could just roll with Johan Camargo and Rio Ruiz for another year.
     
Miami Marlins: SP Jeremy Hellickson
The Marlins could blow things up this offseason if the new ownership group decides to go that route.
If not, shoring up a starting rotation that ranked 26th in the majors with a 5.12 ERA will be paramount if they hope to make a run at contention.
This team needs an ace, though.
Signing someone like Jeremy Hellickson—whom the Marlins nearly acquired at the 2016 deadline—would bring veteran stability, but he's not the missing piece.
He's a complementary arm and a No. 3/4 starter on a contender, and that's who can justify giving him the three- or four-year deal he's likely to receive—not the Marlins.
      
New York Mets: RP Joaquin Benoit
The bullpen will be "an area of focus" for the Mets this offseason as they look to add at least one veteran arm to the mix, according to Marc Carig of Newsday.
With 16 seasons and 764 career appearances—fifth among active players—Benoit brings plenty of experience to the table.
However, the 40-year-old may be nearing the end of the line.
His 4.65 ERA this season represented his highest single-season mark since 2008 and he fell off badly down the stretch with a 6.23 ERA and 1.62 WHIP over his final 17 appearances.
     
Philadelphia Phillies: SP Yu Darvish
The Phillies are several years into the rebuilding process, and Aaron Nola looks like the only safe bet to be a long-term piece of the rotation.
With plenty of payroll room, this could be the offseason where they look to make a splashy signing.
Jake Arrieta and Yu Darvish are the marquee names on this year's starting pitching market, but they have different levels of wear on the tires at this point in their respective careers.
Considering the Phillies likely won't be ready to contend for at least a few more seasons, signing Darvish would be a major risk since his drop-off could come sooner than other pitchers his age.
      
Washington Nationals: RP Matt Albers
For a good portion of the season, Matt Albers was the only reliable arm in the Nationals bullpen.
The 34-year-old struggled to a 6.31 ERA over 58 appearances with the White Sox in 2016 and wound up settling for a minor league deal last offseason that was worth $1.15 million at the MLB level.
However, an uptick in fastball velocity (92.5 to 94.0 mph) helped him rally to a 1.62 ERA, 0.85 WHIP and 9.3 K/9 with 14 holds in 63 appearances, and he's set himself up for a nice payday as a result.
With Ryan Madson and Sean Doolittle now in the fold, the Nationals can let someone else pay to see if he can avoid regressing toward his 3.40 FIP next year.

Chicago Cubs: SP Jake Arrieta
Jake Arrieta is a safe bet to get at least five years and $100 million this offseason and that's probably the floor for his contract negotiations.
The Cubs' young, controllable core puts them in an enviable position, but those guys won't be making the league minimum for much longer.
Kris Bryant, Kyle Hendricks and Addison Russell will all be arbitration-eligible for the first time this winter, and Javier Baez, Kyle Schwarber and Carl Edwards Jr. are up the following offseason.
With those rapidly escalating salaries, potentially two rotation spots to fill and a decision to make on closer Wade Davis, another megadeal for a rotation that already features $155 million man Jon Lester just doesn't make financial sense.
     
Cincinnati Reds: SS Alcides Escobar
There's still a chance Zack Cozart will return to the Reds next season, whether he accepts a qualifying offer or agrees to terms on a multiyear deal.
If he winds up going elsewhere, Alcides Escobar represents the best of the rest on the free-agent market and that's not saying much.
Over the past three seasons, his 68 OPS+ is tied for 229th out of 232 players who have made at least 1,000 plate appearances. His defensive game has also moved in the wrong direction as he has a combined minus-12 DRS over that same span.
The rebuilding Reds would be better off giving Jose Peraza everyday playing time at shortstop until Nick Senzel arrives, then perhaps sliding Eugenio Suarez from third base to shortstop.
     
Milwaukee Brewers: SP Alex Cobb
Alex Cobb is an intriguing second-tier option on this year's starting pitching market and he could wind up getting something similar to the five-year, $80 million deal that Mike Leake signed with the Cardinals a few years ago.
The 30-year-old was 12-10 with a 3.66 ERA and 1.22 WHIP in 179.1 innings in his first full season back from Tommy John surgery.
The Brewers still have work to do sorting out their own internal rotation options and an injury concern of their own to deal with, as Jimmy Nelson is expected to miss a large portion of the 2018 season following shoulder surgery.
Rolling the dice on a risk/reward signing like Cobb makes more sense for a big-market team that can take the financial hit if things go south. The last thing the Brewers want is another Matt Garza.
     
Pittsburgh Pirates: SP Tyson Ross
Pitching coach Ray Searage has worked his magic on a number of reclamation projects over the past few seasons and there are plenty of pitchers who fit the bill this offseason.
One whom the front office can probably steer clear of is Tyson Ross.
In his return from thoracic outlet surgery, Ross was simply never able to regain his pre-injury form, posting a 7.71 ERA with more walks (37) than strikeouts (36) over 49 innings.
His fastball velocity was down from 93.9 mph when he was healthy in 2015 to 92.0 mph, and opposing hitters saw their ISO spike from .065 to .113 against his once lethal slider.
     
St. Louis Cardinals: SP Lance Lynn
Just like the rival Cubs would be best suited letting Jake Arrieta walk, the same can be said about Lance Lynn with the Cardinals.
The 30-year-old returned strong from Tommy John surgery, going 11-8 with a 3.43 ERA (seventh in NL) and 1.23 WHIP in 186.1 innings.
However, as the third-best starting pitcher on the market, it's not out of the question to think he could get something close to the five-year, $90 million deal that Jeff Samardzija signed with the San Francisco Giants in December 2015.
The Cardinals can go forward with some combination of Carlos Martinez, Michael Wacha, Adam Wainwright, Luke Weaver, Jack Flaherty and eventually Alex Reyes in the rotation.

Arizona Diamondbacks: RP Addison Reed
The Diamondbacks will be searching for an upgrade to free agent Fernando Rodney in the closer's role, and Addison Reed is not the answer.
The 28-year-old has had a terrific career, aside from his previous stint in the desert.
Arizona is not always the best environment for pitchers who rely heavily on breaking stuff, and Reed throws his slider 33.1 percent of the time.
He's a great pitcher and the D-backs have a clear need in the late innings, but it's just not the right fit.
     
Colorado Rockies: RP Tyler Clippard
With Greg Holland, Jake McGee and Pat Neshek all set to depart in free agency, the Rockies have some work to do rebuilding a bullpen that was perhaps the biggest reason for their impressive turnaround.
Tyler Clippard is one pitcher they should avoid in that process.
The two-time All-Star had a 50.6 percent fly-ball rate this season, the seventh-highest mark among pitchers with at least 60 innings of work.
Keeping the ball on the ground is still the easiest way to succeed at Coors Field.
     
Los Angeles Dodgers: 2B Brandon Phillips
If Chase Utley rides off into the sunset this offseason, the Dodgers might feel compelled to sign Brandon Phillips to fill a similar role.
Logan Forsythe hit just .224 with a .678 OPS in his first season with the team after being acquired to be the everyday second baseman, and Chris Taylor eventually settled in as the starting center fielder after seeing some early time at the keystone.
That said, a healthy Adrian Gonzalez could leave Cody Bellinger, Alex Verdugo, Joc Pederson and Yasiel Puig battling for playing time in the outfield, which might mean Taylor moves back to second base.
There's also the question of how accommodating Phillips would be to being a part-time player, even if he did initially agree to the idea.
      
San Diego Padres: SS Zack Cozart
It won't be hard for the Padres to upgrade at shortstop after the position produced a .218 average and .626 OPS—both worst in the majors.
However, this team is still at least a few years from contending, so there's no reason to spend big and part with the draft pick compensation that it will likely require to sign Zack Cozart.
By the time the team is ready to contend again, they could have a superstar in the making manning the shortstop position in Fernando Tatis Jr.
In the short term, playing Yangervis Solarte there to open up third base for Cory Spangenberg or Christian Villanueva also looks like an option.
      
San Francisco Giants: 3B Mike Moustakas
The Diamondbacks lost 93 games in 2016 and then turned around and won 93. Who's to say this year's 98-loss Giants team can't do the same?
I'll say it.
Whether the front office wants to admit it, it's time for a rebuild in San Francisco, and throwing a few high-priced free agents on top of the current core is not going to be enough to quickly right the ship. All that's going to do is set them back even further.
One rival insider predicted to Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports that the Giants "will be all over" Mike Moustakas as they look to upgrade at third base.
That's exactly the kind of high-priced band-aid they need to avoid.
     
All stats courtesy of Baseball Reference, FanGraphs and Brooks Baseball, unless otherwise noted.



With the top second basemen of the 2017 Major League Baseball season in the bag, Bleacher Report's final positional power rankings now move to the other side of second base for a look at the top shortstops.
Because of down years on the part of some big-name players, shortstop was a top-heavy position in 2017. There are nonetheless 25 players worth discussing.
Here are the ground rules: 
The rankings were a simple judgment call. Baseball Reference's version of wins above replacement was useful in this respect but was treated more as a guideline than the word of the baseball gods.
Lastly, this was neither a far-reaching retrospective nor a gaze into the future. Only what happened in 2017 counted.

In the year 2017, it's ill-advised and arguably irresponsible to talk about players in detail without using statistics to contextualize their talents and shortcomings.
So, be warned: There are indeed statistics in these rankings.
Many stats will simply be alluded to via links that go to relevant data at Baseball Reference, FanGraphs, Baseball Savant, Brooks Baseball and Baseball Prospectus. But a few to know are...
                              
Wins Above Replacement (WAR): As a stat that puts a number on a player's hitting, baserunning and fielding contributions, WAR is a good go-to in any circumstance.
On-Base Plus Slugging Plus (OPS+): This takes a player's OPS, adjusts it for league and ballpark factors and puts it on a scale where 100 represents average. It shows how well a hitter performed relative to his peers.
Defensive Runs Saved (DRS): It sounds like a measurement of a player's defensive quality, and that's what it is. It's the main defense component for Baseball Reference's version of WAR. Some play multiple positions, but the DRS listed for them here is that of their primary position.
Launch Angle: This Statcast specialty measures the angle of the ball off a hitter's bat. It provides a snapshot of the shape of a hitter's swing—i.e., whether it's flat and tailored for ground balls and line drives or lofty and tailored for fly balls. The MLB average in 2017 was 11.1 degrees.
Exit Velocity: Another Statcast specialty that measures the speed of the ball off a hitter's bat. As you'd expect, there's a strong correlation between high speeds and hitting success. The MLB average in 2017 was 86.6 miles per hour.
Plate Discipline: Although they'll rarely be mentioned explicitly, Swing% (percentage of swings at all pitches), Z-Swing% (in-zone swing percentage) and O-Swing% (out-of-zone swing percentage) paint a picture of a hitter's approach. These figures are found at FanGraphs.
Pull Percentage (Pull%): Also from FanGraphs, this shows the rate at which hitters pull the ball—to left field for righties and to right field for lefties. Pulling the ball is a double-edged sword: It can make a hitter vulnerable to shifts but is also by far the best avenue to power.

Age: 23
Key Stats: 73 G, 225 PA, .260/.345/.395, 86 OPS+, 5 HR, 3 SB, 4 DRS
WAR: 1.1
                                          
2017 Player Report
There's no shortage of candidates for the bottom spot on this list, but Ketel Marte at least has the distinction of coming out of 2017 as an improved player.
There's an obvious small sample-size caveat at play, but he was raking in the minors before getting called up in June and enjoying a couple of hot stretches in the majors. He didn't change much with his approach. Rather, he adjusted his swing for a higher launch angle and added exit velocity for good measure.
Thus did Marte become a modern success story: He drove his ground-ball rate way down and drastically increased his power output.
Defensively, Marte still has an athletic profile—a weak arm in particular—that's not an ideal fit for shortstop. But his quickness is an asset, and his defensive improvement stemmed largely from focusing on making more routine plays. He ultimately did just that.
                     
Honorable Mentions: Marcus Semien (OAK), Adeiny Hechavarria (TBR), Chris Owings (ARI), Jose Reyes (NYM), Alcides Escobar (KCR)

Age: 23
Key Stats: 144 G, 551 PA, .232/.312/.324, 69 OPS+, 6 HR, 3 SB, -7 DRS
WAR: -0.3
                             
2017 Player Report
It's impossible to take Dansby Swanson's 2017 and dress it up as a season that was actually good.
However, he at least accumulated a hefty sample size and finished the year stronger than he started it.
He hit .268 with a .707 OPS after returning from a stint in the minors in August, when he got back to working pitchers and hitting line drives. He still has kinks to iron out—a guy with his modest raw power shouldn't be pulling so many balls—but he's on the right track.
There's also a mix of good news and bad news with Swanson's defense. The bad news is he occasionally lost focus and botched routine plays. The good news is that his range, smooth actions and arm strength occasionally made him look like a Gold Glover.

Age: 24
Key Stats: 146 G, 606 PA, .257/.276/.402, 80 OPS+, 17 HR, 15 SB, -8 DRS
WAR: 0.9
           
2017 Player Report
If 2016 was a glimpse of Tim Anderson's upside, 2017 was a glimpse at his downside. 
His hitting was held back by a wild, free-swinging approach that produced 149 more strikeouts (162) than walks (13). He also struggled on defense, notably leading all shortstops with 28 errors. This was a taste of his bad old days as a prospect, as inconsistent focus made him an error machine in the minors.
On the plus side, he played every day and occasionally flashed his upside.
Anderson's range and arm strength made him a regular in defensive highlights, and playing slightly deeper toward the end of the year helped quell his error problem. He was also one of 2017's fastest shortstops and rode a higher launch angle to decent power.

Age: 31
Key Stats: 145 G, 558 PA, .255/.326/.406, 92 OPS+, 14 HR, 0 SB, -2 DRS
WAR: 1.2
         
2017 Player Report
If anyone ever needs an example of a "serviceable" major league starter, Jordy Mercer is a good guy to cite.
Simply playing shortstop on an everyday basis gives him value. He's also a reliable presence on both sides of the ball. At the plate, he uses a selective approach and a short swing to work counts and knock hits. In the field, he uses his solid tools and instincts to consistently make routine plays.
Mercer's only sin, really, is that he doesn't offer any flashy skills.
He's not one of the better athletes playing shortstop today, and thus is limited with what he can do on defense. And while he did boost his power this year, his static launch angle and exit velocity suggest it's the juiced ball that deserves the credit for that.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 162 G, 663 PA, .255/.309/.382, 83 OPS+, 12 HR, 14 SB, -5 DRS
WAR: 1.3
          
2017 Player Report
Defensive runs saved overstates how bad Freddy Glavis' defense was.
There's value in the fact that he converted 98.9 percent of routine plays, particularly in a full 162-game sample. And while he may have made other plays look more difficult than they actually were, outs are outs. And in covering a fairly wide swath of ground, he made plenty of of those.
Galvis' other strength was his baserunning. He's not one of the faster shortstops in MLB, but he picked his spots with stolen bases (going 14-for-19) and took as many extra bases as he could.
It was never likely that Galvis would reproduce his 20-homer campaign from 2016, but his effort to do so wasn't a total loss. Although his 85.1 mph exit velocity doomed his launch-angle gain, his strides to sharpen his approach helped drop his K% to 16.7 while bumping his BB% to 6.8. His OBP benefited.

Age: 25
Key Stats: 124 G, 365 PA, .271/.319/.370, 78 OPS+, 5 HR, 10 SB, 14 DRS
WAR: 1.9
                      
2017 Player Report
Yes, that many defensive runs saved in such a small sample size must be taken with a Buick-sized grain of salt.
There is nonetheless truth to the notion that Wilmer Difo played fine defense. He's about as fast as teammate Trea Turner and channeled both that speed and his arm strength into good range in the field.
Naturally, his speed was also handy on the bases. He went 10-for-11 stealing bases and took extra bases on hits more often than not. That's how elite baserunning value gets made.
The 82.7 mph exit velocity generated by Difo's bat qualified it as one of the least dangerous in MLB. There also wasn't much he didn't like to swing at. But in posting a below-average 20.3 K% while keeping his soft contact out of the air, he did enough to earn a "pesky hitter" label.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 130 G, 489 PA, .255/.288/.369, 73 OPS+, 6 HR, 7 SB, 4 DRS
WAR: 1.4
          
2017 Player Report
Defensive runs saved may not be too impressed, but ultimate zone rating has the right idea about Jose Iglesias being one of the better defensive shortstops of the last two seasons.
One could argue for either "smooth" or "quick" as the best word to describe Iglesias in the field. For while his actions are indeed smooth, it's his lightning-quick feet and hands that elevate his defense. He will botch the occasional routine play, but the extent of his range is a fair trade-off for that.
Hitting is another matter. Iglesias' 82.4 mph exit velocity made him one of MLB's softest hitters. Pitchers were unafraid to challenge him, as only seven hitters saw a higher rate of pitches in the strike zone.
But if you're not going to hit the ball hard, you might as well hit if often. Iglesias did the trick with a well-below-average 13.3 K%. His contact habit was also his ticket to show off his baserunning skills.

Age: 23
Key Stats: 110 G, 385 PA, .239/.304/.418, 85 OPS+, 12 HR, 2 SB, 15 DRS
WAR: 2.4
          
2017 Player Report
Even without the looming specter of domestic violence allegations, it would be hard to discuss Addison Russell's 2017 in glowing terms.
Evidently aware of the danger he poses against hard stuff, pitchers fed him fewer fastballs. He stayed within his approach despite that and even did a good job getting under the extra junk. But it was weak contact. Whereas the average hitter managed 84.9 mph exit velocity against off-speed, Russell did just 83.7 mph.
Where he didn't suffer any regression, however, is on defense.
He didn't get any better at converting routine plays but continued to do the things that made him a Gold Glove-caliber defender in 2016. Namely: Using his quick feet and soft hands to flag down anything and everything, and his strong arm to finish whatever he started.

Age: 24
Key Stats: 148 G, 635 PA, .273/.343/.403, 95 OPS+, 10 HR, 15 SB, -11 DRS
WAR: 2.2
          
2017 Player Report
This year was a tale of two seasons for Xander Bogaerts.
He was plunked on his right hand shortly before the All-Star break and wasn't the same hitter afterward. His OPS fell from .806 before the break to .671 after the break. Although his exit velocity was better after than it was before, the death of his hard-hit rate tells the truth of his contact quality.
Why Bogaerts never got any DL time is a mystery, as he's not worth keeping on the field for his defense. He's a good athlete, but experience isn't making his actions any smoother. Even routine plays give him trouble.
The one quality that did survive 2017 unscathed is Bogaerts' elite baserunning talent. He's a fast runner who also comes equipped with excellent instincts. As always, he picked good spots with stolen bases (15-for-16) and rounded the bases aggressively.

Age: 24
Key Stats: 133 G, 544 PA, .256/.313/.410, 93 OPS+, 13 HR, 13 SB, -1 DRS
WAR: 2.1
            
2017 Player Report
Jorge Polanco wouldn't be pictured here without his second-half surge. But thanks to that, his first full season was largely a success.
The biggest question he answered was whether his glove was good enough for everyday shortstop duty. While it did produce 18 errors and a low success rate on routine plays, his quickness and talent for improvisation produced enough highlights to save par.
Offensively, Polanco had a power hitter's approach in that he was selective with his swings with a penchant for launch angle and using his pull side. But he seemed to accept that his low exit velocity made him a poor fit for slugging. In the second half, he became more about hitting line drives and spreading hits around.
Polanco mostly made good use of his excellent speed when he did get on. In all, he has the makings of an exciting offensive player.

Age: 24
Key Stats: 108 G, 443 PA, .285/.325/.532, 118 OPS+, 25 HR, 1 SB, 0 DRS
WAR: 2.7
           
2017 Player Report
There was a point during Paul DeJong's rookie year when he had 20 homers in only 70 games.
Then pitchers adjusted and started pitching him high and low instead of in and out. He struggled to adjust back, posting a relatively modest .732 OPS and hitting only five homers in 38 games down the stretch.
Still, DeJong's power display can't be downplayed too much. With one of MLB's highest launch angles and a big pull rate to boot, he had a strong foundation for power that should continue to serve him well.
Elsewhere, it was often hard to tell that DeJong spent most of his time in the minors at third base. Albeit without the smoothest actions or pinpoint throwing accuracy, he displayed good footwork and a knack for how to play balls. Not to be overlooked is that he also provided some solid defense at second base.

Age: 24
Key Stats: 98 G, 447 PA, .284/.338/.451, 102 OPS+, 11 HR, 46 SB, -2 DRS
WAR: 2.6
         
2017 Player Report
One obvious caveat is that Trea Turner missed much of 2017 with injuries. Another is the fact that he couldn't maintain the superstar form of his 2016 season.
Much was made in '16 of how he was a speedy guy who aimed to hit for power. With a lower launch angle and a more selective approach, he resembled more of a typical top-of-the-lineup hitter as a sophomore.
Still, this was good for his K% (17.9) and BB% (6.7) and, by extension, his OBP. And when he was on base, Turner definitely put his elite speed to good use. Getting to 46 steals in only 98 games is a heck of a feat. Altogether, few players provided more baserunning value.
Turner also played passable defense. There are better pairs of hands and better arms at the position, but his quickness allows him to cover about as much ground as you'd expect.

Age: 24
Key Stats: 145 G, 555 PA, .239/.308/.457, 86 OPS+, 24 HR, 7 SB, 11 DRS
WAR: 2.6
             
2017 Player Report
Here's a predictable tale: Trevor Story was unable to maintain the torrid pace of his rookie season.
"Controlled aggression" remained an apt descriptor for his approach, but his high launch angle and pull preference offered easy holes to attack. Pitchers exploited them plenty in saddling him with a 31.3 K% in 2016 and upped the ante with an up-and-away pattern that led to a 34.4 K% this season.
But give Story some credit. He flattened his launch angle from 21.9 degrees in the first half to 15.9 degrees in the second half. The quality of his contact improved and he finished strongly with an .834 OPS.
He didn't need to course-correct other aspects of his game. He's a faster and more productive baserunner than many might realize, and he put that quickness and his arm strength to use on defense making more difficult plays than he did in 2016.

Age: 23
Key Stats: 153 G, 548 PA, .277/.324/.407, 90 OPS+, 15 HR, 14 SB, 6 DRS
WAR: 2.6
          
2017 Player Report
Orlando Arcia was a durable everyday shortstop who generally making good on the glowing reviews that his defense garnered when he was a prospect.
With smooth actions, keen instincts and a strong arm, Arcia looks the part. While one could point to his 20 errors as a major negative from his season, the necessary context is that his deep positioning and range allowed him to get to more balls. Errors happened but weren't the whole story.
Arcia's offense, on the other hand, remains a work in progress.
He has the ability to hit the ball to all fields, and the 18.2 K% he put up in 2017 reflects a solid bat-to-ball skill. But since it's clear he doesn't have enough oomph to generate exit velocity, his swing-at-everything approach must be corrected for him to become a tougher out.

Age: 30
Key Stats: 144 G, 570 PA, .253/.305/.403, 87 OPS+, 14 HR, 3 SB, 9 DRS
WAR: 2.0
          
2017 Player Report
Death, taxes and Brandon Crawford's spectacular defense at shortstop.
Although he can still get himself in trouble trying to do too much, he isn't losing what makes him such a special gloveman. He's quick at the crack of the bat and can hoover up pretty much anything with his soft hands and make pretty much any throw with his strong, accurate arm. Go, treat yourself to his highlights.
Where things went bad for Crawford was at the plate. He's at his best when he's staying within his approach and spraying line drives all around. He didn't do that for the most part.
However, that hitter did re-emerge after the All-Star break. Crawford sharpened his approach and reinvigorated his line-drive habit, resulting in a that's-more-like-it spray chart and a respectable .789 second-half OPS.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 137 G, 575 PA, .278/.328/.454, 111 OPS+, 22 HR, 6 SB, -1 DRS
WAR: 3.3
                        
2017 Player Report
Tim Beckham spent 2017 as a mediocre player with the Tampa Bay Rays and then as a great player with the Baltimore Orioles.
He became pickier with his swings (see before and after) and dropped his strikeout percentage from 31.9 to 24.8. And while his exit velocity stayed the same (87.7 mph to 87.9 mph), he benefited from spreading his hits around. The result was an .871 OPS in 50 games with Baltimore.
Beckham's next revolution must be on defense. He has the range and arm for shortstop, but his ultra-low 95.7 percent success rate on routine plays underscores how his focus and actions can get better.
Still, steps forward are steps forward. Beckham took a small one with the Rays and then a big one with the Orioles. For the first time in a while, his future is looking bright.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 125 G, 566 PA, .300/.349/.427, 110 OPS+, 11 HR, 22 SB, -3 DRS
WAR: 3.1
           
2017 Player Report
No thanks to a couple of DL stints, Jean Segura wasn't quite able to recapture the magic of his 2016 breakout in 2017. But he did come admirably close.
He didn't stray from his '16 improvements in '17, as he continued to choose his swings carefully and kept his launch angle about where it had been. He generated 87.5 mph exit velocity and sprayed his hits around.
Although he didn't register as one of MLB's faster shortstops with an average sprint of 27.4 feet per second, Segura kept the baserunning value coming with both his steals and his aggression.
Defense remains Segura's biggest bugaboo. He played deeper than in years past, but it's no surprise that didn't lead to any noticeable (or measurable) improvements. Without soft hands or a strong arm, he's an iffy fit at shortstop regardless of where he's standing.

Age: 24
Key Stats: 145 G, 508 PA, .273/.317/.480, 103 OPS+, 23 HR, 10 SB, 1 DRS
WAR: 2.9
         
2017 Player Report
The times when Javier Baez looks like the best baseball player in the world remain elusive, but they did come a little more frequently in 2017.
Although he also worked wonders at second base, Addison Russell's injuries opened the door for Baez to show his wares at shortstop. The 11 errors he made in only 573.1 innings are a sore spot, but his quick actions, magician's hands and rocket arm generated enough highlights to break even.
It still appears there's no curing Baez of his free-swinging ways, but he at least cooled it with his tendency to try to pull everything and began teeing off on the good pitches he swung at. He went into the All-Star break slugging .555 against in-zone pitches for his career and finished slugging .679 against said pitches.
Lastly, Baez put his terrific speed to use stealing bases and being aggressive. The result was solid baserunning value.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 136 G, 570 PA, .287/.318/.478, 106 OPS+, 25 HR, 3 SB, 1 DRS
WAR: 3.7
          
2017 Player Report
This is the year that Didi Gregorius made the leap from "interesting hitter" to "good hitter."
He doesn't fit the Joey Votto mold, as he remained unable to ditch his habits of swinging and chasing too often. But it's not easy to mix increasingly consistent contact with increasingly dangerous power like he is.
He's boosting his power by upping his launch angle and his pull rate. He typically didn't clear the fence by much, but it's some comfort that he didn't rely solely on Yankee Stadium's short porch for his homers. His home/road splits were about even.
The metrics continue to give mixed signals on Gregorius' defense. That doesn't match up with the eye test, wherein one can get entranced by his smooth actions and cannon arm. However, he doesn't quite have the quickness to justify playing as close to home as he does.

Age: 32
Key Stats: 122 G, 507 PA, .297/.385/.548, 141 OPS+, 24 HR, 3 SB, 2 DRS
WAR: 4.9
              
2017 Player Report
The most frustrating aspect of Zack Cozart's 2017 season is that he again had trouble staying healthy. He hasn't had a steady presence since 2013 and 2014.
Otherwise, there isn't much to gripe about.
This year saw Cozart perfect an offensive approach he's been working on for years. He first sought to become more of a pull hitter in 2014 and then less of a ground-ball hitter in 2015. Increased selectivity was his new trick for 2017, as he dropped both his swing and chase rates. This is how walk and power spikes happen.
On the other side of the ball, Cozart has never been one to play highlight-reel defense. Among other things, he doesn't have the range for it. His strengths—e.g. his internal clock and sound fundamentals—are more subtle and make him more reliable than flashy. So it went in 2017.

Age: 29
Key Stats: 158 G, 689 PA, .397/.337/.471, 108 OPS+, 20 HR, 25 SB, 4 DRS
WAR: 4.7
            
2017 Player Report
Before 2017, Elvis Andrus was averaging four homers per year. To go from there to 20 is quite the leap.
It was in 2015 that he shifted from a ground-ball-oriented, all-fields hitter to a dead-pull hitter with an emphasis on keeping the ball off the ground. That's a power approach, and two things helped it take off in 2017: applying it more often with more swings and, to be perfectly frank, the juiced ball.
Andrus is slowing down as he powers up, as his sprint speed is down 0.7 feet-per-second from where he was in 2015. Yet he remained as aggressive as ever on the bases and was highly productive.
His speed loss is hurting him more on defense, where his range has declined since 2015. But he at least clamped down on routine plays while maintaining the instincts and actions necessary to make more than just the gimmes.

Age: 23
Key Stats: 109 G, 481 PA, .315/.391/.550, 158 OPS+, 24 HR, 2 SB, 4 DRS
WAR: 6.3
         
2017 Player Report
A thumb injury sidelined Carlos Correa for six weeks. Otherwise, 2017 would have been his most fruitful season yet.
He was already equipped with good selectivity and as much raw power as any shortstop. But this year he did a better job of applying the latter with a higher launch angle and more liberal use of the whole field. In the end, he worked an 11.0 BB%, a 19.1 K% and rocketed balls in all directions.
Correa's DRS is likely generous, but playing a step deeper than where he started has been for the best. He has the arm for it, and having more time to react has helped make him more reliable on routine plays.
The one area of Correa's game that went backward in 2017 was his baserunning. But next to his elite hitting and consistent defense, that's an acceptable sacrifice.

Age: 23
Key Stats: 145 G, 613 PA, .295/.375/.479, 125 OPS+, 22 HR, 4 SB, 10 DRS
WAR: 5.6
           
2017 Player Report
Not that Corey Seager needed to get better after winning the NL Rookie of the Year and contending for the NL MVP in 2016, but it's to his credit that he didn't get worse.
Improved discipline helped him boost his BB% from 7.9 to 10.9, and what was already an excellent feel for the barrel got even better. He had a higher launch angle, about the same exit velocity and, lo and behold, a higher hard-hit rate than everyone except Paul Goldschmidt, Aaron Judge and Joey Gallo.
What Seager lacks in sprint speed he continued to make up for with smarts. Not counting caught-stealings, he ran into just two outs all year. There's value in that kind of risk-aversion.
Defensively, it's counterintuitive that a big guy with a strong arm would be playing closer to home plate every year. But his long strides and long reach do give him more range than expected, and it's not hurting him on routine plays. 

Age: 23
Key Stats: 159 G, 723 PA, .273/.337/.505, 116 OPS+, 33 HR, 15 SB, 5 DRS
WAR: 5.5
         
2017 Player Report
Having already defied low expectations for his offense in his first two MLB seasons, Francisco Lindor blew them away in 2017.
He was the same hitter to the extents that he was fairly choosy with his swings and good at making contact. His power output was the difference, and in a way that was typical of 2017: By upping his launch angle, thereby driving his ground-ball rate south. 
Lindor also clocked as a faster runner. He went from an average sprint of 27.4 feet per second in 2016 to 28.2 feet per second in 2017. That plus his keen instincts kept his value coming.
Alas, there is something to the notion that Lindor wasn't the same Gold Glove-caliber defender. Regardless of difficulty, he just didn't make as many plays. But since he covered a huge territory and, to the naked eye, had all the same defensive tools, his defensive demise seems exaggerated.

Age: 28
Key Stats: 158 G, 647 PA, .278/.331/.421, 103 OPS+, 14 HR, 19 SB, 32 DRS
WAR: 7.1
             
2017 Player Report
Andrelton Simmons' best talent is still his defense.
Save for deeper positioning, nothing changed for him in 2017. There were shortstops who covered more ground, but he covered plenty and continued to set himself apart by finishing anything he started. If he could get to a ball, his soft hands and strong, accurate arm did the rest.
But while his glove remained as impressive as ever, Simmons is No. 1 because his offense got better.
He had no trouble putting the ball in play before 2017, but his poor numbers proved how that talent on its own is only worth so much. What he did this year was keep that talent while pulling more balls and hitting with more loft. His bat became a source of consistent contact and solid power.
Elsewhere, the explanation for Simmons' improved baserunning is as simple as can be: Rather than go with Father Time's flow, he's getting faster with age.
All told, a great year for a great shortstop.



When the Cleveland Indians jog out of the dugout Wednesday at Progressive Field for Game 5 of their American League Division Series, they won't simply be facing the New York Yankees. They'll be staring down history—both recent and far-reaching.
First, there's last season's October collapse, when the Indians blew a 3-1 World Series lead against the Chicago Cubs and lost the Fall Classic in seven gut-wrenching games.
Then there's the fact that, dating back to Game 7 of the 1997 World Series against the then-Florida Marlins, the Indians are 4-17 in potential postseason clinchers.
On top of the mounting angst pile, shovel baseball's longest active championship drought. The last time Cleveland won it all was 1948. If you're doing the math at home, that was a long time ago.
After winning the first two games of the ALDS against the Yankees, the Tribe dropped Game 3 on Sunday and Game 4 on Monday in the Bronx.
A stirring comeback in Game 2—aided by some head-scratching missteps by Yankees manager Joe Girardi—put them in the driver's seat. Now, the Indians are trying not to careen off the road.
OK, some good news for the northeastern Ohio faithful: Corey Kluber, the pitcher who will take the ball for Cleveland in Game 5, is the right man for the job.

The presumptive American League Cy Young Award winner, Kluber went 18-4 with an MLB-leading 2.25 ERA and 11.7 strikeouts per nine innings in the regular season.
More than that, there's Kluber's even-keel, cyborg-esque demeanor. They call him the Klubot for a reason.
"I'm sure he's cracked a smile, but he comes in that dugout and you can't tell if he's given up five or none," Indians manager Terry Francona said in late September, per Zack Meisel of Cleveland.com. "Fortunately it's more [often] that it's none, but he just ... there's times where you can't tell by his body language that maybe he got squeezed a little bit or something happened behind him. He won't let you know, which I think is a big advantage."
It's an especially large advantage in a do-or-die contest—when every pitch, every hit, every call is magnified. Showing emotion isn't necessarily a bad thing, but being able to tune out the din and rise above the pressure is paramount.
In the 2016 postseason, Kluber was mostly brilliant, striking out 35 in 34.1 innings and posting a 1.83 ERA. Cleveland wouldn't have gotten to the brink of a champagne celebration without him.
That said, Kluber took the hill in Game 7—his third start of the Series—and coughed up six hits, two home runs and four earned runs in four innings.
He also wobbled in Game 2 of this year's ALDS against the Yankees, surrendering six earned runs in 2.2 innings before Girardi and the Indians' bats bailed him out.
That's two straight poor playoff starts for Cleveland's best pitcher. Toss another shovelful on the angst pile.

On the other hand, there's no reason to believe Kluber is suddenly broken. He's almost surely going to win his second Cy Young Award. He posted a 0.84 ERA with 50 strikeouts and three walks in September. In his career, he's held current Yankees hitters to a meager .155/.204/.250 slash line.
On Wednesday, he'll pitch in front of a raucous home crowd desperate to see the Indians advance. His counterpart, veteran lefty CC Sabathia, showed life in Game 2 but is a shell of his former self.
Yeah, the young Yankees have momentum. The scales tip toward Kluber and the Indians, however.
"I can't imagine giving the ball to somebody better," Francona said, per Cleveland.com's Paul Hoynes. "We tried to set up a five-game series with plans, contingency plans ... a lot of things have happened. So we go to Game 5, we're at home, and we have Kluber."
That brings us back to history—last year's pain, the decades-spanning struggles in must-win scenarios. It's there, staring Cleveland in the face, weighing down the team and the whole dang city.
This is the moment for the Klubot to stoically shoulder the load.
It says here he can.
   
All statistics current as of Tuesday and courtesy of Baseball-Reference unless otherwise noted.



The Chicago Cubs still will face Tanner Roark in Game 4 of the National League Division Series after all.
On Tuesday, Jorge Castillo of the Washington Post reported Nationals manager Dusty Baker said Roark will start Wednesday's Game 4 after Tuesday's contest was postponed due to rain.
While Roark was set to start Tuesday, the postponement presented Baker with the opportunity to start Stephen Strasburg on his normal four days' rest. However, Baker said Strasburg is "under the weather," according to Carrie Muskat of MLB.com.
What's more, Chelsea Janes of the Washington Post noted Strasburg threw a bullpen session Tuesday "in anticipation of starting Thursday."
It is hard to see this as anything but a win for the Cubs given Strasburg's talent level and performance in Game 1 of this series. He posted a 2.52 ERA, 1.02 WHIP and 204 strikeouts in 175.1 innings this season and took a no-hitter into the sixth inning of Game 1 against Chicago.
While he ultimately allowed two runs and struck out 10 in seven innings of Washington's 3-0 loss, both runs were unearned.
Roark was impressive in 2016 with a 2.83 ERA and 1.17 WHIP, but his numbers dropped off this year with a career-worst 4.67 ERA and 1.34 WHIP. He also allowed six earned runs in 4.2 innings in his last start, which came on Sept. 27 against the Philadelphia Phillies.
The Cubs—who lead the series 2-1 and have the opportunity to punch their ticket to their third straight National League Championship Series—were set to start 2015 NL Cy Young winner Jake Arrieta Tuesday and plan to do the same Wednesday, per the Los Angeles Times' Bill Shaikin. 
While Arrieta would appear to be more of a sure thing than Roark, he suffered a hamstring injury down the stretch in September and hasn't made an appearance since he allowed five runs (three earned) in a Sept. 26 loss to the St. Louis Cardinals.



Major League Baseball announced Tuesday that Game 4 of the National League Division Series between the Chicago Cubs and Washington Nationals has been postponed until Wednesday due to inclement weather, according to the Washington Post's Jorge Castillo.   
The game, which was initially scheduled to get underway from Wrigley Field at 5:38 p.m. ET Tuesday, will now begin at 4:08 p.m. ET Wednesday. The Cubs hold a 2-1 series lead. 
Pushing Game 4 back a day gave the Nationals a chance to start Stephen Strasburg—who dazzled in Game 1 —but manager Dusty Baker told reporters early Tuesday evening Tanner Roark will still take the mound as scheduled Wednesday. 
In his only career postseason start, which came in the 2016 NLDS against the Los Angeles Dodgers, Roark allowed two runs, seven hits and three walks over 4.1 innings. 
According to MASN's Mark Zuckerman, Baker said Strasburg is feeling "under the weather." However, he maintained Strasburg would start Game 5 if the Nationals win Wednesday. 
The Cubs, meanwhile, will stick with Jake Arrieta instead of handing the ball to Game 1 hero Kyle Hendricks, according to the Los Angeles Times' Bill Shaikin. 
Arrieta has yet to pitch in the 2017 postseason due to hamstring issues, and he will undoubtedly be eager to wash away his September woes with a spot in the NLCS on the line. In three starts last month, Arrieta allowed seven earned runs, 15 hits and five home runs over 10.1 innings. 
But if the 2015 NL Cy Young Award winner's production during last season's triumphant World Series run (2-1, 3.63 ERA, 1.07 WHIP, 25 strikeouts, seven walks) was any indication, he should give the Cubs a strong chance to close out the Nationals in front of the Wrigley faithful.        



While teams are still vying to reach and win the World Series, much of Major League Baseball is already focused on the offseason and what should be an intriguing free-agent signing period.
Although it can be argued that there is a lack of elite talent compared to some of the players who could hit the market in the coming years, there are enough difference-makers out there who could change the MLB landscape depending upon where they decide to sign.
With the offseason quickly approaching, here is a look at the latest rumors surrounding some underrated players with the potential to provide some big-time value.
       
Justin Upton
It may seem odd to characterize a four-time All-Star as underrated, but outfielder Justin Upton has often fallen a bit short of his immense potential over the course of his career.
That changed in 2017, however, when he hit .273 and set career highs with 35 home runs and 109 RBI for the Detroit Tigers and Los Angeles Angels.
After such a strong year, it comes as little surprise that MLB Network's Jon Morosi is reporting that Upton is planning to opt out of his contract and become a free agent.
The Tigers traded Upton to the Angels for the stretch run, but L.A. was unable to reach the postseason and may not be in the market for the top of contract Upton figures to get.
Upton is still in his prime at 30 years of age, and his power production is at an all-time high, as he followed up a 31-homer campaign in 2016 with 35 in 2017.
Despite his prowess at the plate, Upton has been somewhat nomadic over the course of his career, enjoying stints with the Arizona Diamondbacks, Atlanta Braves, San Diego Padres, Tigers and Angels.
If he signs with a new team this offseason, it will mark his sixth different team in seven seasons.
One team that could be a strong fit after trading outfielders Jay Bruce and Curtis Granderson this season is the New York Mets.
Injuries derailed the Mets in 2017 and caused them to miss the playoffs, but they have elite pitching when healthy.
New York has some young hitting talent rising through the ranks; however, it lacks proven stars aside from Yoenis Cespedes, and Upton would provide a major boost to an offense that struggled mightily this season.
       
Eric Hosmer
The Kansas City Royals stand to lose much of the nucleus that helped lead them to a World Series title in 2015.
First baseman Eric Hosmer is part of that group, but Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reported that the Royals will make a "serious offer" that could exceed $100 million in order to keep him.
Heyman added that the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees are among the teams that could provide the biggest competition for Hosmer's services.
The 27-year-old veteran is coming off what was arguably his best MLB season, as he hit a career-best .318, matched his career best with 25 home runs and drove in 94 runs.
Hosmer has been a Royals staple since they selected him with the No. 3 overall pick in the 2008 draft, and he has developed into one of baseball's most complete first basemen.
In addition to his hitting prowess, the lefty is a three-time Gold Glove Award winner, and he reached his first All-Star Game in 2016.
Hosmer even provides some rare speed at the first base position with 60 career stolen bases.
His durability is a major hallmark as well, with just six games missed in total over the past three seasons.
Hosmer's combination of youth and production in all areas should make him a highly sought-after commodity, but since the Royals need some kind of victory in free agency in order to save face with their fanbase, look for them to do whatever is needed in order to keep Hosmer in the fold.
        
Zack Cozart
After playing in relative anonymity for years, Cincinnati Reds shortstop Zack Cozart broke out in a big way this season.
The 32-year-old veteran set career bests across the board with a .297 batting average, .385 on-base percentage, 24 home runs and 63 RBI en route to his first career All-Star nod.
Cozart stands to land a nice contract in free agency, but Heyman reported that the Reds may make a run at trying to retain him.
If Cozart's surge in power and on-base ability are for real, then he could be a highly valuable piece at the shortstop position.
If his production was an outlier, however, a big contract could be an albatross, especially since he is already potentially exiting his prime years.
The Reds are a team that boasts some impressive offensive players, but they are likely stuck in a rebuild until they can improve their starting rotation significantly.
Cincinnati may still be a few years away from contention for a playoff spot because of that, and the fact that Cozart hasn't appeared in more than 122 games in a single season since 2014 may dissuade a team from making a big financial commitment.
There may not be many playoff-caliber teams in the market for a shortstop, but one destination that makes sense is the Arizona Diamondbacks.
Arizona has shown a penchant for spending in free agency, and since Ketel Marte hasn't established himself as a clear-cut starter, the D-backs are a team to watch in the Cozart hunt.



Fact: With a home run against the Arizona Diamondbacks in Game 3 on Monday, Cody Bellinger (22 years, 88 days) became the youngest player in Los Angeles Dodgers history to hit a home run in the postseason. Bellinger's teammate Corey Seager (22 years, 163 days) previously held the record.
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light. 
Source: MLB Network



The New York Mets would reportedly consider hiring manager Joe Girardi if he's not re-signed by the crosstown rival New York Yankees at the conclusion of the team's playoff run.
On Monday, Mike Puma of the New York Post noted the Mets are "keeping surveillance" on the Girardi situation as they seek a replacement for Terry Collins, who resigned following a 70-92 season.
A source told Puma the Mets "fully expect" the Yankees to retain their manager, but he would be considered by general manager Sandy Alderson if he becomes available.
Girardi said Sunday he isn't overly concerned about his future and would let the Yankees decide how to move forward after the campaign ends, per Mike Mazzeo of the New York Daily News.
"I'm never worried about that. I've never worried about his future. I worry about other people's futures, but not my own," he said. "I believe the man upstairs is in charge of me, and whatever happens, happens.
"I think an organization has to do what they're comfortable with, right, and it may not always agree with the person that is either being fired or however it goes. But I think that's Hal [Steinbrenner] and Brian [Cashman's] decision. Whatever their decision is, you know, I'll live with it."
Girardi came under intense scrutiny for failing to challenge a key play in Game 2 of the team's ALDS matchup with the Cleveland Indians. Replays showed the call should have been a foul-tip strikeout on Lonnie Chisenhall rather than a hit-by-pitch, and Francisco Lindor proceeded to hit a grand slam for the Tribe.
The Yankees went on to lose the game in extra innings, but they have bounced back to win the next two contests to level the series at 2-2. The decisive Game 5 is scheduled for Wednesday night in Cleveland.
In the bigger picture, Girardi has accumulated a 910-710 regular-season record across 10 years as the Yankees manager. He led the storied organization to its 27th World Series title in 2009.



The Chicago Cubs will attempt to advance to the National League Championship Series for the third year in a row when they host the Washington Nationals as solid home favorites for Game 4 of their NL Division Series on Tuesday.
The Cubs rallied back for a 2-1 victory in Game 3 on Monday at Wrigley Field after they were no-hit by Washington's Max Scherzer for 6.1 innings.
            
Betting line: The Cubs opened as -145 favorites (wager $145 to win $100); the total is at 7.5 runs, according to sportsbooks monitored by OddsShark. Line updates and matchup report.
MLB betting pick, via OddsShark computer: 3.1-2.6, Cubs (MLB picks on every game)
                        
Why the Nationals can pay on the MLB lines
The Nationals have the firepower to even this series if they can just score more runs against Chicago's pitching. That may seem obvious, but totaling one run in two losses is exactly why Washington is on the brink of elimination.
Bryce Harper and Daniel Murphy went a combined 0-for-8 in Game 3 with four strikeouts between them, and they will need to step up in order to force a Game 5. They will likely need their best offensive performance, especially with Tanner Roark (13-11, 4.67 ERA) on the mound.
                
Why the Cubs can pay on the MLB lines
Winning Game 3 was enormous for the defending World Series champions, as they will do everything they can to avoid a return trip to Nationals Park. Facing Roark in this spot will help, but so will having a gamer on the hill in his counterpart Jake Arrieta (14-10, 3.53).
Much like Scherzer, Arrieta was rested until later in this series due to a hamstring injury, and Chicago can only hope he pitches just as well. If Arrieta can come through and give the Cubs a quality start, they will probably be headed back to the NLCS.
            
Smart betting pick
Arrieta struggled in September, going 0-2 in three starts with a 6.10 ERA. Maybe Chicago will pull the plug on him early on if he gives up a few runs knowing that John Lackey is ready to go out of the bullpen if needed. While Roark is not really the guy you want going with your season on the line, the betting odds are too heavy in favor of the Cubs.
Chicago has not beaten Washington in consecutive games in the previous 13 meetings, so take a shot at the underdog here at sports betting sites to pull off the upset and extend the series to a deciding Game 5.
                
MLB betting trends
Washington is 1-4 in its last five games.
The total has gone under in five of Washington's last six games on the road.
Chicago is 17-5 in its last 22 games.
           
All MLB odds and betting trends courtesy of Bleacher Report's official odds partner, OddsShark. All quotes gathered firsthand unless otherwise noted. Check out Twitter for injury and line-movement updates and the OddsShark YouTube page for picks and analysis, or download the free odds tracker app.



Fueled by rising young stars, MLB's power takeover is showing no signs of deteriorating.
The 32 teams combined to hit a record-setting 6,105 home runs in 2017. Forty-one players, led by Giancarlo Stanton's 59, went deep at least 30 times.
Unprecedented rookie surges stoked the flames. Aaron Judge, Cody Bellinger, Rhys Hoskins and Matt Olson each rounded the bases 11 or more times in a single month, giving the sport four sluggers capable of sustaining the fly-ball revolution.
They will have more company in 2018. In fact, all four players should have a teammate highlighted as a power breakout candidate, barring a trade.
With so many younger hitters aiming to go deep, often with a high strikeout rate in the process, nobody mentioned is older than 27. While the selections were made primarily with 2018 in mind, the list features a few prospects yet to play a major league game. Some newcomers who took a backseat to Judge and Co. are also poised for progress.
Given the prevalence of power, even some 25-homer contributors with the ability to hit 35 received recognition. 
Remember for these purposes, it doesn't matter if a pick hits .220 and strikes out 220 times. As long as he's hitting dingers.

A.J. Reed, 1B, Houston Astros
A.J. Reed certainly would have headlined any article with the same premise two years ago. After demolishing minor league pitching in 2015, the Houston Astros first baseman had fans envisioning a future masher joining Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa.
When given an opportunity, he batted .164/.270/.262 in 45 games. Although he amassed 34 homers in Triple-A, the Astros had no openings to afford him a second chance.
Perhaps they can use him as an offseason trade chip, as Reed still wields tantalizing power despite his disappointing debut. 
        
Wilmer Flores, INF, New York Mets
Yet to hit 20 homers in a single season, Wilmer Flores feels like an odd inclusion. The 26-year-old infielder, however, made tangible strides during a season prematurely ended by breaking his nose on a foul ball. 
Along with hitting a career-high 18 homers in just 362 plate appearances, his hard-hit rate catapulted to 35.4 percent. His 45.7 fly-ball rate represented a personal best, and his pop-up rate dipped to its lowest mark since 2014. 
Flores is a prime candidate to hit 25 deep flies if given a regular role, which would lead observers to dismissively conclude that everyone is doing it these days.
        
Christin Stewart, OF, Detroit Tigers
Christin Stewart hit six home runs among 37 fly balls in 24 games for the Detroit Tigers' Double-A system last year. Spending all of 2017 at that level, he hit 28 homers despite his fly-ball rate normalizing to a healthy 43.4 percent
The 23-year-old outfielder can rake, and the rebuilding Detroit Tigers probably won't have much at stake next year. Even if he struggles, he should generate some power following a midseason promotion.
        
Christian Walker, 1B/OF, Arizona Diamondbacks
In the hitter-friendly Pacific Coast League, Christian Walker hit .309/.382/.597 and circled the bases 32 times. Added to the Arizona Diamondbacks' 40-man roster for a September call-up, the 26-year-old could be an in-house fallback plan if superstar free agent J.D. Martinez signs elsewhere.

Some will protest that Mike Zunino already broke out by clubbing 25 home runs in 435 plate appearances. Let's get greedy and ask for more. 
A popular candidate to one day lead all catchers in deep flies after being drafted third overall in 2012, the career .209 hitter first needed to solve the pesky problem of making contact. Despite a career-high 36.9 strikeout percentage, he batted .251/.331/.509 with some help from a .355 batting average on balls in play (BABIP). 
He also set a career high in hard-hit rate (38.6) with a 90.3-mph average exit velocity. He hit 107 of his 228 batted balls at least 95 mph with 33 barrels, classified as a ball struck at least 98 mph with the optimal launch angle to produce a minimum .500 batting average and 1.500 slugging percentage.
When he gets hold of a baseball, he makes it count. With an average home run distance of 412 feet, he does not require any assistance from Safeco Field.
The Seattle Mariners catcher made this progress despite entering June with one home run. His all-or-nothing approach will yield drastic peaks and valleys, but the best version of Zunino notched a .943 OPS (with a rise in walks and decrease in strikeouts) during a sizzling second half.
Don't make the mistake of prorating those numbers over a full season. The 26-year-old will have more stretches in 2018 when he struggles to put anything into play.
Yet the hot finish will ensure him more playing time, making him a strong candidate to challenge for the position's top spot with over 30 homers. 

Two seasons ago, Sanchez catapulted to the top of MLB's catcher hierarchy with 20 homers in 53 games. He was not even the New York Yankees' best position player logging his first full season in 2017, as Judge set a rookie record with 52 long balls.
Greg Bird is about to make their lineup even scarier.
Before both of those studs emerged, the first baseman clobbered 11 home runs in 46 games with a .529 slugging percentage in 2015. He missed all of 2016 with a torn right shoulder labrum, and an ankle injury cost him nearly four months this year. 
He proved worth the wait, belting 10 long balls—including two in the American League Division Series—since returning in late August. The 24-year-old has gone yard 20 times in 348 regular-season plate appearances with a 51.9 fly-ball percentage and 40.6 hard-hit rate.
Bird boasts an average batted-ball distance of 224 feet with a 20.8-degree launch angle. He's also a left-handed hitter who plays his home games in Yankee Stadium.
A 30-homer campaign is hardly a stretch if Bird can stay healthy in 2017. As a slugger who regularly elevates the ball with loud contact, that would make a relatively safe projection if not for concerns about him staying on the field.

Playing time is all Jesus Aguilar needs to develop into a high-impact slugger.
With Eric Thames playing first base against right-handed pitchers for the Milwaukee Brewers, the right-handed reserve amassed 16 homers and a .505 slugging percentage in 311 plate appearances. For skeptics wondering if he merely succeeded in a well-fitting platoon role, he went deep 11 times against righties.
Aguilar, who hit 30 home runs in Triple-A the previous year, earned a roster spot with a standout spring. When the games counted, he generated a 45.2 hard-hit rate and 411-foot average distance per home run. 
While he'd hit lower than .265 in a featured role, the 250-pound bruiser would also make a serious push for 30 long balls. Then again, Thames remains under contract after submitting 31 blasts with a .359 on-base percentage. As of now, Aguilar is still stuck in the short end of a platoon.
These issues, however, often resolve themselves. If an injury or trade leads to an expanded role, MLB will witness the rise of yet another hulking first baseman.

While Willie Calhoun may not have a position, his bat will stick somewhere.
The 5'8", 187-pound prospect is not like most youngsters with lofty power potential. He has hit 58 home runs over the last two seasons in Double-A and Triple-A, but not at the expense of contact. The 22-year-old joined the Texas Rangers as a career .286 minor league hitter with an 11.6 strikeout percentage.
If his future lies as a designated hitter, it's a good thing the Texas Rangers acquired him from the Los Angeles Dodgers as the top return for Yu Darvish. Formerly vying for a spot on a National League squad with a deep roster and a spacious home park, he will now swing at the Globe Life Park in Arlington.
Calhoun didn't make much of a splash when hitting .265/.324/.353 as a September call-up. He also hit 15 of his 27 batted balls on the ground, but let's not get carried away over 37 plate appearances.
If free agent Mike Napoli leaves, a vacancy will open either at DH or right field, depending on where Shin-Soo Choo plays. The Rangers should let their new acquisition fill the void.

Matt Chapman did not even produce the best offensive display from an Oakland Athletics rookie corner infielder named "Matt." Yet Olson's stellar debut should not undermine his teammate's promising showcase.
Following a slow start, the third baseman recorded 14 home runs and a .516 slugging percentage in 72 second-half games. The 24-year-old was among eight position players to furnish fly balls on at least half of his batted balls after the All-Star break. A 19.9-degree average launch angle also shows his intent on clearing the fences.
His power has translated at each level. Before his June promotion, Chapman went yard 16 times in 49 Triple-A games. He tallied 36 homers in 2016 despite batting .237.
Strikeouts have also followed him, but Oakland won't mind if he draws walks and delivers dingers. Unlike most of its quintessential patient, low-contact sluggers, the 2014 first-round draft selection brings elite defense to the table. He accounted for 19 defensive runs saved during his rookie campaign, so he's without question an everyday player regardless of his batting average.
Although he won't go deep 13 times in a month like Olson in September, Chapman has the makings of a steady 30-homer hitter. The A's could lead the majors in home runs with a full season of Olson, Chapman and Khris Davis fueling their lineup.

A quick glance at Nicholas Castellanos' 2017 stats reveal 26 home runs and 101 RBI—looks like a productive middle-of-the-order bat already.
Those gains are driven by volume. He logged 665 plate appearances in 2017, the same amount as Kris Bryant and Paul Goldschmidt, by consistently batting in the Nos. 2-5 range for Detroit. While his .272/.320/.490 slash line is solid, it's a step back from 2016's .285/.331/.496 line accrued over 447 plate appearances.
There's also reason to believe he's capable of much more.
His 43.4 hard-hit rate ranked fifth among all qualified hitters behind Joey Gallo, Judge, Goldschmidt and Corey Seager. Statcast calculated an expected weighted on-base average (xwOBA) of .366, ahead of his actual .347 wOBA. 
He even hit 10 triples, a bizarre tally only exceeded by the far quicker Charlie Blackmon and Billy Hamilton. As a result, he improved his isolated power for the fourth straight year.
Garnering more fence-clearing pop will unlock a full-fledged breakout. Yet as noted by FanGraphs' Scott Strandberg, he lost some fly balls for grounders and rarely achieved a launch angle conducive for home runs. 
Castellanos will turn 26 next March. He plays every day, regularly hits the ball hard and teased a second gear by smashing 10 home runs in his final 37 games. He is some slight adjustments away from morphing into a top-tier slugger who annually wields a high average and 30-35 deep flies.

Before Hoskins joined the Philadelphia Phillies, he formed one half of the farm system's "Bash Brothers" with Dylan Cozens.
Like Hoskins, the 6'6", 235-pound Cozens is a big dude who pummeled minor league pitching. He devoured Double-A opposition with 40 home runs in 2016. Despite hitting an underwhelming .210/.301/.418 in Triple-A, the 23-year-old still produced 27 long balls and a 48.1 fly-ball rate.
When profiling both Phillies prospects before Hoskins' historic debut, Minor League Ball's Wayne Cavadi credited Cozens with "freakish athletic ability like Aaron Judge both in the field and on the basepaths." Although he also strikes out in spades, he has maintained a double-digit walk percentage in each of the last two seasons.
His power is for real. The question is whether he can cut back on the whiffs enough to contribute against big league pitching. A discouraging 2017 should not entirely close the book on a prospect with sky-high power upside, and Hoskins came with the same concerns of favorable minor league parks inflating his results.
A Triple-A rebound would earn Cozens an opportunity to unite with his slugging partner next year. Perhaps he looks more like 2016 Judge than 2017 Judge or Hoskins, but there's a path to Philadelphia enjoying another rookie homer spree. 

In a year of sensational introductions, Hunter Renfroe's rookie stint was hardly remarkable. 
After slugging .800 in a torrid 11-game teaser in 2016, the corner outfielder batted .231 with a .284 on-base percentage and 0.3 WAR for the San Diego Padres. At least he also smacked 26 deep flies in 479 plate appearances.
Throwing in 2016's September stint, he already has 30 career long balls in 515 plate appearances amassed over 133 games.
While the 25-year-old must prove he's more than a one-dimensional player, his one dimension is the tool under examination. He gave Triple-A attendees 30 souvenirs in 2016, and he continued striving for high-impact swings with a 45.2 fly-ball percentage and 34 barrels. 
Putting the ball in the air has yielded some unintended outcomes; his 15.1 infield-fly rate gives the opposition too many easy out. His steep splits are also concerning. Although the right-handed batter garnered 15 homers against same-handed pitchers, a .202/.244/.393 slash line could relegate him to the short end of a platoon.
The current iteration of Renfroe shows that long balls alone don't make a productive player. Yet the Padres should give him regular reps to develop. If all else fails, he could still hit 35 home runs with 600 plate appearances.

The Seattle Mariners will regret trading Tyler O'Neill. 
When they sent him to the St. Louis Cardinals for pitcher Marco Gonzales in July, the 22-year-outfielder was hitting a mundane .244/.328/.479 with 19 homers in 93 Triple-A games. Following the atypical prospect-for-prospect swap, he turned on the jets with a dozen long balls and a 45.6 fly-ball rate over 37 contests.
He swiped double-digit bags in each of the last three seasons, but power is O'Neill's true calling card. The 2013 third-round pick had risen up Seattle's farm ranks with 32 deep flies in 2015 and an .882 OPS the following year. 
After the trade, FanGraphs' Chris Mitchell said the Cardinals addition possesses a "similar array of strengths and weaknesses" as Bellinger, who set a Senior Circuit record with 39 home runs in his debut year. While O'Neill—ranked No. 86 on MLB.com's top prospect list—is not as highly regarded, he wields immense raw power.
Whiffs are a bigger concern for O'Neill, who incurred a 27.1 strikeout percentage in 2017. He also must break through a crowded St. Louis outfield already featuring Tommy Pham, Dexter Fowler, Randal Grichuk, Stephen Piscotty and Harrison Bader.
Yet the Cardinals are a meritocracy willing to bench a star for a 20th-round pick on a hot streak. The acquisition must prove he can hit for contact and handle himself defensively, but there's no doubting his ability to post gaudy homer tallies if given the chance.

Eloy Jimenez turns 21 in November and played just 18 games in Double-A this year. He's the least likely highlighted player to make a major league impact—if he even gets promoted at all—next season.
He also has the most potential.
The centerpiece of a crosstown blockbuster that sent Jose Quintana from the Chicago White Sox to the Chicago Cubs, Jimenez finished 2017 as MLB.com's No. 4 prospect. After hitting .312/.379/.568 with 19 home runs in 89 games, he could take an express trip to the big leagues.
"I truly believe that I can be playing here right now," Jimenez said through an interpreter in September, per the Chicago Tribune's Colleen Kane. 
Perhaps most impressively for this subject's purposes, he recreated The Natural by blasting a ball into the lights during a minor league home run contest. That's the type of pure power that led MLB.com to invoke Stanton's name in its scouting report.
Jimenez may not receive an extended look until 2019, and fans should not start expecting every newcomer to immediately dominate in light of Judge, Bellinger, Hoskins and Olson. Nevertheless, he has the smooth swing and undeniable strength necessary to deliver 40-homer seasons in his prime.
        
All advanced stats courtesy of FanGraphs and Baseball Savant.



The Chicago Cubs are one game away from advancing the National League Championship Series following their scintillating 2-1 victory over the Washington Nationals at Wrigley Field in Game 3 Monday afternoon.
The defending World Series champions will send Jake Arrieta to the mound in Game 4 Tuesday, while the Nationals will counter with Tanner Roark in an attempt to keep their hopes alive.
The Nationals want to bring the series back to Washington for a decisive fifth game. The Nationals have never won a postseason series, and the franchise hasn't had any playoff success since they were the Montreal Expos.
That team won a National League Division Series against the Philadelphia Phillies in 1981. The Expos were subsequently eliminated by the Los Angeles Dodgers.
Roark was 13-11 with a 4.67 earned-run average this season, but he was a much more effective pitcher in the second half of the year. He had a 3.90 ERA after the All-Star break, and he appeared to have better command and more confidence in his pitches.
Arrieta was 14-10 with a 3.53 ERA, but he was pushed back in the rotation because of a right hamstring injury. The Nationals tagged him for a loss June 27 when he gave up five earned runs along with six hits and six walks in one of his most ineffective starts of the season.
The game is scheduled to begin at 5:38 p.m. and will be televised by TBS. The Cubs are minus-148 favorites to close the series out in Game 4 according to OddsShark, while the Nationals are plus-138 underdogs to force a decisive Game 5 Thursday at Nationals Park.
The Cubs were trailing the Nationals 1-0 in the bottom of the seventh inning in Game 3, and they had been unable to get a single hit off Washington ace Max Scherzer. However, when Ben Zobrist broke up the no-hitter with a double after one out in the seventh inning, Washington manager Dusty Baker pulled Scherzer in favor of reliever Sammy Solis.
Pinch-hitter Albert Almora followed with a single that drove in Zobrist with the tying run.
.@ARizzo44 dumps an RBI single into no-man's land!

#Cubs lead 2-1 after 8! https://t.co/5oFLC935zv
Anthony Rizzo drove home pinch-runner Leonys Martin with the go-ahead run in the bottom of the eighth inning on a two-out bloop single to center field.
Washington third baseman Ryan Zimmerman told Carrie Muskat and Jamal Collier of MLB.com that the 2-1 deficit is not a big issue for the Nationals.
"We've won two games in a row before. It's not a record," Zimmerman said. "It's not an ideal situation to be in; obviously, I'd rather be up 2-1. It's playoff baseball. We'll come back out tomorrow, play a game, hopefully come out on top and go home and have an exciting Game 5."
             
Prediction
The Nationals have had a sensational season, but they are once again in a win-or-go-home situation. The pitching matchup between Roark and Arrieta would seem to favor the Cubs if the Chicago pitcher is healthy.
However, it's not always easy to come back from hamstring difficulties, and Arrieta may not be at full strength.
The combination of the injury and a desperate Washington team should help the visitors. Look for the Nationals to find a way to defeat the defending World Series champions and force a fifth game.



The Los Angeles Dodgers are heading to the National League Championship Series for the second straight season.
The Dodgers finished a sweep of the NL West rival Arizona Diamondbacks with a 3-1 victory at Chase Field in Game 3 of an NL Division Series on Monday. Yu Darvish allowed one run on just two hits with seven strikeouts in five-plus innings, while Los Angeles got to his counterpart, Zack Greinke, for a run in the first inning and never trailed.
Cody Bellinger and Austin Barnes homered against Greinke, but Darvish—whom the Dodgers acquired via trade from the Texas Rangers—set the tone for the victors. While Greinke struggled with his command (five walks) and racked up his pitch count (105 in five-plus innings), Darvish cruised into the sixth on 74 pitches, zero walks and little trouble outside Daniel Descalso's solo homer in the fifth.
Mike Petriello of MLB.com reacted to the right-hander's effort:
Yu Darvish is an absolute monster tonight. This is exactly what everyone envisioned when that trade happened.
Greinke allowed three earned runs on four hits and the five walks. It was more of the same from the former Dodger after he struggled in Arizona's NL Wild Card Game win over the Colorado Rockies last week, allowing four earned runs in 3.2 innings.
Los Angeles wasted little time getting to the four-time All-Star, as Chris Taylor led off the game with a double and scored on Bellinger's ground out. In the fifth, Bellinger added the contest's second run with a solo blast to left-center, and Barnes' leadoff homer in the sixth ended Greinke's evening and gave his team some breathing room after Arizona had pulled within 2-1 on Descalso's long ball in the fifth.
First #postseason homer for @Cody_Bellinger?

It was just a matter of time. #NLDS https://t.co/Y7hQav1nnZ
Bellinger also flashed some leather:
Fear of falling? @Cody_Bellinger doesn’t have it. #NLDS https://t.co/gwJ0KwHrfd
The Dodgers' dominant pitching didn't stop with Darvish, who exited after he hit the bill of Christian Walker's helmet to start the bottom of the sixth. Tony Cingrani came on in relief and induced a double play from David Peralta on the ensuing at-bat as the bullpen with the National League's best ERA finished the series.
Brandon Morrow pitched 1.1 perfect innings, Kenta Maeda breezed through a 1-2-3 eighth, and dominant closer Kenley Jansen converted his 10th career playoff save in 10 chances by striking out Paul Goldschmidt when the slugger represented the tying run.
The Diamondbacks bullpen deserves credit for keeping the home team within striking distance. Jorge De La Rosa, David Hernandez, Archie Bradley and Andrew Chafin combined for four scoreless innings, though Chafin needed some help. After Peralta couldn't cleanly catch Bellinger's bloop single, he threw out Justin Turner at the plate to end the top of the ninth.
The Dodgers will turn their attention to the NLCS and the chance to play in their first World Series since 1988. They await the winner of the series between the Chicago Cubs and Washington Nationals, which the Cubs lead 2-1.
Last year, Chicago beat Los Angeles in six games in the NLCS on the way to its first World Series title since 1908. The Dodgers had outlasted the Nationals in a five-game thriller in an NLDS.



The bad news is Luis Severino gave up as many long balls in his second career postseason start as he did in his first.
The good news is he recorded 20 more outs and, in so doing, pitched the New York Yankees to within a win of an epic comeback over a supposedly unbeatable team.
Picking up where Masahiro Tanaka left off with seven shutout innings in New York's 1-0 win in Game 3 on Sunday, Severino led the Yankees to a 7-3 victory over the Cleveland Indians with seven excellent innings of his own in Game 4 of an American League Division Series on Monday.
He wasn't perfect, serving up a two-run home run to Carlos Santana and a solo homer to Roberto Perez. But in allowing just four hits and a walk and striking out nine batters, the 23-year-old was plenty good enough to knot the series at two games apiece.
One more win, and the Yankees will become just the eighth team to dig itself out of an 0-2 division series hole. In the order of things they should be excited about, that's at the top of the list.
Assuming they can get that done, the item after that ought to be Severino's next turn on the bump.

After watching him get only one out and allow three runs on two homers against the Minnesota Twins in the American League Wild Card Game last week, the uninitiated may have thought Severino is just a guy with a big arm and no idea how to use it.
If so, what the uninitiated got in Game 4 was a look at the real Severino.
The right-hander needed 18 pitches to get through the first against Cleveland, 11 fewer than he'd spent against Minnesota. Like that, he was on his way to a 113-pitch performance that was mostly dazzling from start to finish.
Electric sliders and changeups notwithstanding, the dazzle mostly showed on the radar gun. Severino sat in the high 90s with his fastball, peaking with a 100 mph dart that caught Lonnie Chisenhall looking in the seventh inning.
Courtesy of Pitcher List, it's too good not to share:
Luis Severino is PUMPED after painting the corner at 100mph https://t.co/QjDBtr319Y
Pitches like that were a regular feature in a regular season in which Severino dominated with a 2.98 ERA in 31 starts. His 97.6 mph average fastball was the fastest of any starter, and he ranked just a tick behind three-time Cy Young Award winner Clayton Kershaw in strike zone rate.
Severino's velocity showed up against the Twins. His command did not. He threw only 17 strikes and made mistakes when he did go in the zone. He was punished accordingly.
That could have spelled a disappointing end to an otherwise splendid season for Severino and the Yankees. Instead, they rallied for a win and left him to ponder a valuable lesson about being amped for October.
"I learned that it doesn't help. You know, a lot of adrenaline, trying to do too much," he said, according to Brittany Ghiroli of MLB.com. "So [in Game 4], just try to calm myself down and try to breathe, and think before every pitch."
Severino didn't take on the demeanor of a zombie Monday. There were numerous moments when he let his emotions come to the surface. But rather than a guy who was overwhelmed by his emotions, he pitched like a guy who was feeding off them.
Just like that, the Yankees had their ace back.

Maybe there never was much doubt Severino had gone anywhere following his Wild Card Game debacle, and there shouldn't be any doubt he's deserving of the "ace" label.
To wit, the .603 OPS he permitted this year tied him with Boston Red Sox lefty Chris Sale and placed him behind only Indians righty Corey Kluber for the American League lead. In virtually any other season, Severino would be an easy choice for the Cy Young Award.
In the here and now, the Yankees will settle for simply giving him a chance to pitch again this season. The only trouble is that actually making that happen will be about as simple as walking into Mordor.
The place they'll actually be walking into is Cleveland, where Game 5 is scheduled for Wednesday evening. It's a place where the Indians earned 49 of their 102 wins in the regular season, as well as the place they jetted out to a 2-0 lead over the Yankees in this series.
The projected pitching matchup favors the home team. The Indians will start Kluber, who's very likely going to add a second Cy Young Award to his collection this winter. The Yankees will start CC Sabathia, a crafty yet hittable veteran.
But if nothing else, the Yankees have the momentum. Beyond that, they also have a bullpen that's well-rested thanks to Tanaka and Severino. Further beyond that, they showed with their Game 2 shellacking of Kluber that his presence alone won't necessarily be their doom.
Given that 2017 was supposed to be a rebuilding year, the fact that the Yankees have even made it this far is a feat unto itself. But why stop at "good enough" when "even better" is in reach?
    
Data courtesy of Baseball Reference and FanGraphs.




The New York Yankees aren't going down without a fight.
The Yankees evened their American League Division Series against the Cleveland Indians on Monday with a 7-3 victory in Game 4 at Yankee Stadium. The Bronx Bombers—with the help of six unearned runs—continued the pattern of the home team winning each contest this series to force a decisive Game 5 on Wednesday in Cleveland.
In the Yankees' victory over the Minnesota Twins in the American League Wild Card Game on Tuesday, starting pitcher Luis Severino tallied just one out while allowing two home runs and three runs, but he was much more effective in Monday's win-or-go home contest.
While he allowed a two-run homer to Carlos Santana and a solo shot to Roberto Perez, the right-hander limited the damage after he was handed a sizeable lead and gave up just four hits and one walk while striking out nine in seven innings.
He joined impressive company in the process:
Yankees w/ 8+ K in Potential Elim Game, Last 50 Yrs:

Luis Severino
CC Sabathia (2012 ALDS)
Roger Clemens (2001 WS)
David Cone (1995 ALDS)
Severino's performance, as well as the unearned runs on three of Cleveland's four errors, was enough for Tommy Kahnle to finish the win. Kahnle entered the game after Dellin Betances issued two straight walks to start the eighth, and the midseason acquisition retired Jason Kipnis, Jose Ramirez and Jay Bruce in order.
Severino's counterpart, Trevor Bauer, failed to escape the second inning Monday after he thrived in Game 1 on Thursday, when he tossed 6.2 scoreless innings and allowed just two hits and one walk while striking out eight. New York forced him from the contest with an RBI double by Todd Frazier, an RBI single by Aaron Hicks and a two-run double by Aaron Judge.
All four runs were unearned after Starlin Castro reached via Giovanny Urshela's error with one out, and Bauer, pitching on short rest, couldn't overcome the adversity.
Zack Meisel of The Athletic pointed out how uncharacteristic the defending American League champions' fielding was:
Indians allowed 35 unearned runs in 162 regular season games.

They have allowed 6 unearned runs through five innings tonight.
Urshela's problems were far from over, as his throwing error allowed New York to open a 5-0 advantage in the third. Cleveland reliever Mike Clevinger would have escaped a bases-loaded jam had Urshela delivered an accurate throw to first, but Santana had to jump to catch the ball and Brett Gardner reached the bag before the first baseman came back down.
The fielding woes weren't limited to the third baseman, as relief pitcher Danny Salazar's throwing error on a grounder allowed Frazier to reach second and later score on Gardner's shallow sacrifice fly in the fifth.
Santana homered in the fourth, and Perez cut the Indians' deficit to 5-3 in the fifth, but Gary Sanchez added a solo home run in the sixth, helping the Yankees avoid the middle-innings meltdown they experienced in Game 2.
.@ElGarySanchez ain’t ready to stop playing yet. #ALDS https://t.co/msSFQ38P1I
The ALDS will shift back to Cleveland for Game 5, with the winner advancing to the American League Championship Series against the Houston Astros.
Mike Mazzeo of the New York Daily News noted Yankees manager Joe Girardi said CC Sabathia will start Wednesday, while AL Cy Young Award favorite Corey Kluber figures to get the ball for the Indians.
New York tagged Kluber for six earned runs in 2.2 innings in Game 2, while Sabathia allowed four runs (two earned) in 5.1 innings. Cleveland overcame an 8-3 deficit and won that matchup 9-8 in 13 innings.



The Chicago Cubs are facing a lawsuit from a fan. On Monday, A.J. Perez of USA Today reported Jay Loos, a 60-year-old Cubs fan, filed a lawsuit against the team and Major League Baseball after he was left blind in one eye and suffered a broken nose as the result of being hit by a foul ball while attending a game.
According to Perez, Loos' lawyer said his client was hit during the Cubs' Aug. 29 game against the Pittsburgh Pirates at Wrigley Field.
"I knew foul balls go into the stands," Loos said. "I guess I had no idea how fast they went. It was like a missile."
Perez reported Loos is seeking more than $50,000 in damages.
Perez noted MLB tickets feature injury disclaimers that warn batted balls can go into the stands, which limit the liability of teams, but Loos was there as a guest and didn't have a ticket.
Mitch Dudek and Nader Issa of the Chicago Sun-Times reported Loos' seat was only a few rows behind the Pirates' dugout and that he has undergone three surgeries, has two more coming up and may need a prosthetic to replace his eye.
Extending protective netting from behind home plate to stadium dugouts has been a major talking point down the stretch of the 2017 season after a young girl was hit in the face by a foul ball off the bat of New York Yankees third baseman Todd Frazier on Sept. 20.
Perez noted the Cubs were one of the teams to announce they would extend their netting after that.



Chicago Cubs first baseman Anthony Rizzo looped a game-winning single in the bottom of the eighth inning against the Washington Nationals on Monday night to give the Cubs a 2-1 victory in Game 3 of a National League Division Series.
Anthony Rizzo GAME WINNER.

@Cubs take the 2-1 series lead. https://t.co/P5TebpjCc5
After Leonys Martin scored, Rizzo was caught between first and second to end the inning. As the Wrigley Field crowd roared, the cameras zoomed in on his face.
"Respect me!" he yelled as he walked toward the dugout. "Respect me!"
That appeared to be in response to the Nationals' pitching to him with first base open and Martin on second. It was a decision Washington may lament. Monday's result gave Chicago a 2-1 advantage in the series and the opportunity to close things out Tuesday night at Wrigley.
Grant Paulsen of 106.7 The Fan was befuddled by the sequence:
First base open and you let their MVP beat you with your 5th best reliever in the game.
It wasn't the only decision that will be scrutinized.
With the Nationals leading 1-0 in the bottom of the seventh inning, Max Scherzer—who had been brilliant and had yet to allow a hit—gave up a one-out double to Ben Zobrist. With Scherzer sitting on 98 pitches and Kyle Schwarber on deck, manager Dusty Baker took Scherzer out of the game and went with left-handed reliever Sammy Solis.
Joe Maddon and the Cubs countered by bringing in Albert Almora Jr. to pinch hit, and he singled to left field to tie the game.
Those pivotal moments elicited a variety of responses after the game:
Dusty Baker: always burned by leaving pitchers in too long. Now he gets burned by taking a pitcher out at an acceptable time, or early
Max Scherzer at Dusty Baker right now. #Nats #NLDS https://t.co/LBbjxI0irg
Shoutout to the Nats fans defending Dusty Baker in my mentions. Here's what you need to know: Cubs fans all wanted Scherzer out of there.
Baker stood by his decision to pull Scherzer, however.
"I couldn't live with myself if Schwarber had hit one out of the park," he said after the game, per Bill Shaikin of the Los Angeles Times.
Schwarber played a major role in another key moment, albeit one that benefitted the Nationals. His two errors on a fly ball to left field with two outs in the top of the sixth inning allowed Daniel Murphy to reach third base. Maddon promptly pulled starter Jose Quintana (5.2 IP, 2 H, 1 R, 7 K, 1 BB) in favor of Pedro Strop, but Ryan Zimmerman plated Murphy with a double to right that gave the Nationals a 1-0 lead.
That was the only run Washington mustered, however, a fact B/R's Zachary D. Rymer suggested was the biggest worry for the team heading into Game 4:
Dusty Baker's pitching decisions aside, the Nationals are trailing in this series because their offense has had one good inning.
For Chicago, overcoming excellent pitching has become a theme in this series, per ESPN Stats & Info:
Cubs have been no-hit through 5 innings twice in this series. They turned both of those games into wins https://t.co/pJjjlRMbr0
Tuesday night could feature another pitching duel, with Tanner Roark taking the mound for the Nationals and Jake Arrieta earning the nod for the Cubs.



The Houston Astros are the first team to clinch a spot in the next round of the playoffs after their 5-4 Game 4 win Monday over the Boston Red Sox.
In a game where both Chris Sale and Justin Verlander were used out of the bullpen to keep the score close, Alex Bregman and Josh Reddick came through with the big hits in the eighth to help win it for Houston.
The victory gave the Astros the 3-1 division series victory, sending the AL West winners to the American League Championship Series to take on either the Cleveland Indians or New York Yankees.
The Red Sox appeared ready to send the series to Game 5 with a 3-2 lead into the eighth inning and Sale cruising in relief. However, Bregman changed the game with a game-tying solo home run:
.@ABREG_1 fears no monster. #Clutch https://t.co/zk20YtGh8C
A few batters later, Reddick hit a two-out, RBI single off Craig Kimbrel to give Houston the one-run advantage.
Carlos Beltran's pinch-hit double provided some much-needed insurance in the ninth inning before Ken Giles could close out the two-inning save, giving the Astros the win in the game and the series.
Brian T. Smith of the Houston Chronicle captured the ensuing celebration:
#Astros in the ALCS. https://t.co/mMFU7DaxZW
Both sides had a chance to take over the game at different points, with the starting pitchers especially fortunate to avoid more damage than they did.
Each team missed opportunities, with the Astros stranding six base-runners in the first three innings, including four in scoring position. Of course, the bases-loaded disappointment was matched by the Red Sox, who couldn't score despite three runners on and no outs.
Some outside calls for strikes during the second inning led to the ejection of Red Sox manager John Farrell, as captured by Fox Sports:
John Farrell has just been ejected from today's game.  https://t.co/leAXNVV45j
The Astros also saved themselves when Marwin Gonzalez threw out Mitch Moreland at home in the third inning:
Just a 94-mph STRIKE … from left field. #ALDS https://t.co/PprwTSQwr7
Boston got one run on the board with a solo home run from Xander Bogaerts, while George Springer scored and hit an RBI single to give Houston a 2-1 lead through three innings.
This was enough to chase Red Sox starter Rick Porcello, who allowed two runs on five hits and three walks in three innings. Houston's Charlie Morton settled in a bit after his fortunate breaks, completing 4.1 innings with two runs allowed on seven hits.
It created a battle of the bullpens, which really was a battle of aces as each team turned to their Game 1 starter in relief.
Peter Gammons of MLB Network summed up the excitement:
Watching Sale and Verlander in relief in the fifth inning of a playoff game is why Baseball is the best
This was followed by plenty of second-guessing, as Andrew Benintendi greeted Verlander with a two-run home run to take the lead. 
ANDREW BENINTENDI! GONE!

2-run homer off Justin Verlander, @RedSox take the lead https://t.co/EcakiLqZfu
That ended up being the only hit Verlander allowed, though, as he ended up lasting 2.2 innings with one run charged to him in his first career relief appearance. 
Conversely, Sale cruised early with three scoreless innings, but Bregman's homer changed the tone. He was also responsible for the run scored on Reddick's clutch hit, ending his day with two runs allowed in 4.2 innings.
Brian McTaggart of MLB.com described the atmosphere:
Reddick RBI single off Kimbrel puts Astros ahead, 4-3.

Fenway is dead quiet except for Astros dugout.
After Beltran plated the fifth run with a double in the ninth, Rafael Devers made things interesting with the first inside-the-park home run for the Red Sox in the playoffs since 1916, per Fox Sports.
This simply delayed the inevitable as a Dustin Pedroia ground out officially ended the series.
The Astros will now try to continue their magical season with a trip to the ALCS. While they did win 101 games this season, it was easy to look past a young squad in a franchise that hadn't won a playoff series since 2005.
However, they showed this series that they are a legitimate contender to win it all.



The Minnesota Twins announced Monday they have agreed to a three-year contract extension with manager Paul Molitor that will keep him with the club through the 2020 season.
We have signed Manager Paul Molitor to a 3-year contract extension, which will keep him as our manager through 2020! #MNTwins https://t.co/jEVzjzFsNo
Molitor, 61, led the Twins to an 85-77 record this season and a berth in the American League Wild Card Game. It was the team's best record since 2010 and first postseason appearance since that season.
It was Minnesota's second winning season in Molitor's three seasons at the helm, as the team went 83-79 in 2015. The Twins also became the first team to go from losing 100 or more games to making the postseason the next year.
There were questions in Minnesota about whether chief baseball officer Derek Falvey and general manager Thad Levine—brought aboard after the team stumbled to a 59-103 record last season—would keep Molitor or bring their own manager into the fold.
According to La Velle E. Neal III of the Star Tribune: "The new regime agreed when it arrived last November that Molitor would manage the 2017 season, the final year of his contract. Falvey said late in the season that the manager's status would not be discussed until the season was over."
The Twins are loaded with young talent or players in their prime, led by Eddie Rosario, Miguel Sano, Byron Buxton and Brian Dozier. Keeping Molitor in Minnesota ensures that the team's up-and-comers will have managerial stability heading into the future as they seek a title.



Boston Red Sox manager John Farrell was ejected from Monday's Game 4 matchup against the Houston Astros in the bottom of the second inning after arguing a Dustin Pedroia called third strike.
Farrell left the dugout to argue a down-and-outside curve ball that was called for a third strike with the bases loaded and one out. Pedroia was angered by the call but was not tossed, likely in part because Farrell came out to take the attention.
Jackie Bradley Jr. had been called out on strikes on another borderline call with the bases loaded and no one out. The Red Sox wound up failing to score a run in the bottom of the second, missing a golden opportunity to put themselves ahead.
Boston entered Monday trailing 2-1 in the best-of-five series, which no doubt added an extra element of frustration to the mix. Losing Farrell for the final seven-plus innings is a blow, but it's one that the team would surely take over seeing Pedroia potentially be ejected.


On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
Washington Nationals star Bryce Harper and his trainer offer a great workout for any athlete interested in increasing their hand-eye coordination. Watch as Harper dominates the workout and challenges you to beat his score.
You think you can top it?
Bleacher Report is your No. 1 stop for what's trending in sports. You can count on B/R for all the hottest stories. From wild sports to the next big thing, don’t miss out.
Download the free Bleacher Report App to catch all the MLB moments that matter in one place. Get the app to get the game.



Skillfully having knocked out hit after hit all evening, the ginger man wearing the No. 10 Dodgers jersey with the name "Turner" lettered across the back now stood alone in the spotlight, beaming, another deafening standing ovation serving up goosebumps and memories for all in attendance.
And, even for one who wasn't.
It was just another incredible night in a summer stocked with them in Los Angeles – the latest of which was Turner leading the way with a .462 AVG, 1 HR, 5 RBI and a 1.226 OPS in a dominant NLDS sweep over Arizona, except there was one subtle twist to this one.
The ginger man dressed in the No. 10 Dodgers jersey was standing onstage at the Staples Center.
The ginger man and wearer of the original No. 10 Dodgers jersey was four miles up the Harbor Freeway and in Chavez Ravine at the time, helping his team pile up one more W.
Ed Sheeran, in the middle of a 17-month world tour and one of the world's biggest pop superstars, could not be reached for comment.
Justin Turner, now launching an October playoff drive and having emerged in 2017 as MLB's Most Unlikely Superstar, absolutely could be reached for comment.
"That was insane," Turner told B/R one recent afternoon during a lengthy conversation as the Dodgers looked to the postseason. "I knew he was in town. I knew the night before he wore a Kings jersey onstage.
"I came in after the game, and I had, like, 30 text messages. And my Twitter account was going crazy, and it's like, Ed Sheeran's wearing your jersey for the encore; he's playing 'Shape of You.' It was incredible."
Still can't believe @edsheeran threw on my jersey for his encore of "Shape of You" last night! Anytime you want to stop @Dodgers Stadium LMK https://t.co/hFxM2ssOmZ
It started innocently enough, all of it: this frame-worthy season, the Dodgers' successful drive to score him a spot in the All-Star Game via the Final Vote, the .322 batting average that placed him tied for second in the National League, the .415 on-base percentage (second), his emergence as the Dodgers' unofficial captain and, yes, his crossover into Sheeran's universe.
It was way back in spring training when he picked "Shape of You" as his walk-up song.
"I heard it this offseason. You try to figure out what you're going to walk up to, and I love the song," Turner says. "And obviously, I knew he was a ginger.
"I didn't know it would ever get back to him and he was going to wear my jersey in concert."
Unlikely superstar? Turner is 32 now, and the Dodgers are his fourth organization. He was drafted by Cincinnati in 2006, traded to Baltimore in 2008, claimed off waivers by the New York Mets in 2010 and flat-out released after the 2013 season.
When the Dodgers signed him, he was 29 and unsure whether he'd ever get another game in the majors.
"You've gotta tip your cap to what he did," Terry Collins, his manager in New York, tells B/R.
"The best thing about it is the path he took," Dodgers starter Alex Wood says. "Everybody has a different path. He's had his ups and downs, and it all led to him becoming one of the focal points of our team."
"When you get non-tendered or let go by a team, you take that as you're not good enough to play for that team," Turner says.
"To come here and have success [that] first season on top of the fact that I went through kind of a makeover of my swing...from that season on I felt like I was turning a corner offensively. And it's been going pretty good ever since."

Yeah, you might say it's going pretty good in the baseball world for him in the same way it's going OK in the music world for his red-headed compadre.
From backstage somewhere in the U.S. several days after the Staples Center concert, Sheeran recorded a personal greeting and texted it to Turner. In his own unique, disheveled style, wearing a plain dark shirt and rumpled slacks, Sheeran had tugged a Dodgers cap onto his shock of red hair and, camera rolling, voiced a video message:
"Hey Justin, J.T., from one ginger to another: Let's go Dodgers!"
                   
APPROPRIATELY, THE FIRST hit of Turner's major league career arrived at exactly 1:17 a.m. local time in Yankee Stadium in 2009, following rain delays totaling two hours and 34 minutes.
As things have turned out, the guy has had to patiently wait for everything else in his late-blooming career. So why not his first hit, too?
"I never thought about it that way," he says, "And, actually, I had two at-bats the day before in Boston. I struck out in my first at-bat and hit a line drive into right in my next at-bat; someone came in and slid and made a diving catch.
"I guess it all worked out the way it was supposed to work out."
That this lifelong baseball rat from Long Beach, California, who helped lead Cal State Fullerton to the 2004 College World Series title, now is starring for his hometown Dodgers is sweet enough. That his mother, father, one sister, grandmother, grandfather, aunts, uncles, "everyone" in his family lives in Southern California while he flourishes there doing the one thing he's always loved is far beyond any reasonable career path.

But before he found himself here, at the center of the October swirl, only miles from where this odyssey started, he had to learn what would get him here, and for that he had to leave.
His journey began more than a decade ago, when the Reds selected him in the seventh round of the draft. In three seasons with Cincinnati, Turner didn't hit his way to the big club, but he took the value of a well-structured organization that was in lockstep at every level of the farm system. The philosophies and jargon were the same, so as the players moved, their coaches at each level literally were speaking the same language. "It's something the Dodgers, I think, are trying to nail down here," Turner says.
The Rooster, former big league shortstop Rick Burleson, was among those in Cincinnati who left an impression. "He was a grinder, a competitor who instilled that fight in you," says Turner, whose consistently dirt-stained uniforms have become a nightly tribute to the Rooster and that fight.
He name-checks several other minor league instructors in Cincinnati too. Men like Freddie Benavides (infield instructor), Ronnie Ortegon (hitting instructor), Darren Bragg (hitting instructor), Ryan Jackson (hitting instructor) and Jamie Dismuke (hitting instructor). Grinders like him, baseball lifers he appreciates. From small moments, big moments come.
From Baltimore, he took the skills to play third base in the big leagues. Then, when the Orioles called him up for 12 games that September, that's mostly where he played.
The window in Baltimore closed practically before it opened. Following his brief taste of the bigs in '09, there was no room for him on the Orioles' Opening Day roster in 2010.

"He loved to play. He was patient," says Dave Trembley, Baltimore's manager at the time who now serves as Atlanta's director of player development. "We sent him out [to the minors] in spring training, told him we don't have a spot for you to go and play, and he was great. He said, 'Dave, no problem. I need to get some at-bats.'"
Patience. When the O's called him back early that season, he lasted five games, went 0-for-9 and in late May was claimed off waivers by the Mets.
From New York, he took a kinship with Marlon Byrd, a career-turning introduction to Byrd's hitting guru, Doug Latta, and a close friendship with Mets captain David Wright.
"They gave me a chance to stick around there long enough to get a chance to meet Marlon and talk about hitting," Turner says. "He was relentless. He was on me almost every day about changing my philosophy. Of course, you try to tell a guy already in the major leagues to change his style, it's not easy. It's like, I'm already in the major leagues. Why would I change?"
Byrd didn't arrive in New York until 2013, Turner's last season there.
Late that August, out of contention, the Mets traded Byrd to Pittsburgh.
But the five months he and Byrd were together changed Turner's life.
"By the end of the season, he kind of got to me a little bit," Turner says. "I made some of the adjustments he was talking about. And not only did I make them, I saw the results. I started driving the ball more."
Over 14 games that September, Turner hit .357 with two homers and a .929 OPS.
In his previous 72 games in 2013, Turner had zero homers.
"That small taste intrigued me," Turner says. "I wanted more."

Byrd invited Turner to work with Latta, who runs a hitting facility in Chatsworth, California, that offseason. Turner wasted no time: At the beginning of the next week after the season ended, he was in the cages with Latta and Byrd.
That winter, he rebuilt his entire swing, adding a leg kick, lowering his hands and emphasizing a weight shift forward during his swing to transfer more power into launching the baseball. Previously, Turner had kept his weight back and concentrated simply on being a contact hitter. Always, he's been blessed with exceptionally quick hands.
"He hit some homers when he was here, but what this guy has done is amazing," Collins, the now-former Mets manager, says. "I think the world of him. He always was a good player. Even as a backup guy, he was tremendous off the bench...and when he had that bat in his hands, he was dangerous.
"He's never been blessed with speed, but he could hit the ball to right field with anybody. He had this swing—I always told him anytime he wanted a hit, he could hit a line drive to right field."
Following his winter of work with Latta, the Dodgers signed Turner on Feb. 6, 2014, just before spring training, on the recommendation of fellow Cal State Fullerton alum and then-Dodgers bench coach Tim Wallach, who lobbied then-general manager Ned Colletti on his behalf. Turner responded with a breakout year his first season in Los Angeles, hitting .340/.404/.493 with seven homers and 43 RBI. He slammed 16 homers in '15 and 27 in '16 before finishing with 21 this season.
"I remember seeing him put together a couple of really good at-bats" in the '14 season-opening series in Australia, Dodgers veteran Adrian Gonzalez says of the '14 season-opn. "He made a few plays, and it was, like, 'This guy can play a little.'
"All he needed was a chance."
"I couldn't be any happier for him," says San Diego Padres bench coach Mark McGwire, who was the Dodgers' hitting coach Turner's first two seasons in Los Angeles. "It's so funny how he got a chance to play, with Juan Uribe getting hurt. Then Uribe came back, and Justin was back on the bench, Uribe got hurt, came back again, and Justin was back on the bench."

"He put in hours and hours of unbelievable work," McGwire continues. "I love the way he prepares for a game. I tell these young kids on our team about it: He got on the pitching machine before every game and cranked it up to the highest speed, and all he would try to do was hit balls right back up the middle."
Turner still keeps in touch with Latta, who remains a valuable third-perspective guy beyond current Dodgers hitting coach Turner Ward and assistant Tim Hyers.
"He's got an unbelievable eye for the tiniest of adjustments," Turner says.
From the outside, Turner's rebuilt swing isn't the only thing that is noticeably different.
"He's gotten a little hairier," quips Lucas Duda, his former teammate with the Mets who was traded to Tampa Bay in July, "and a little redder."
                                       
DRIVING HOME TO Los Angeles on the first Sunday of July following that afternoon's loss in San Diego, Turner and his fiance, Kourtney, were rattled.
Until then, this season had been one long, unencumbered cruise. The Dodgers were 55-28. Turner led the majors with a .388 batting average and .473 on-base percentage. He had produced the fifth-highest batting average at the All-Star break since 1969, behind only Larry Walker (.398, 1997), Tony Gwynn (.394, 1997), Andres Galarraga (.391, 1993) and Gwynn (.383, 1994).
Yet, here came the speed bump: When the All-Star teams had been announced earlier in the day, Turner had been stiffed.
"I was frustrated," Turner admits. "I was like, if I'm not an All Star now, I don't know if I ever will be."
MLB would name Turner as one of the five NL candidates for the Final Vote competition, a special ballot of theoretically the top five players in each league who just missed the All-Star cut. In a frenzy over the next four days, fans would vote one more time, and clubs would push their players with public relations campaigns.
Away from the noise of the season, Justin and Kourtney talked quietly inside the black SUV as they covered the miles back to Los Angeles.
"We just decided that, you know what, we can feel bad for ourselves and have a pity party, or we can try to go for it and get active on social media and try to get people to vote and do everything we can to try to get there," Turner says.
Over the next four days, the Dodgers' enormous traveling fan club, Pantone 294 (technically, the name for the color Dodger blue), set up shop at Dodger Stadium with some 20 computers, manning them 24 hours a day. An appreciative and humbled Turner stopped in to visit and say thanks when he could—after batting practice, after games. One night, he ordered delivery of a whole fleet of Starbucks coffees.
A photo posted by Justin Turner (@redturn2)
When the final results were announced that Thursday, not only did Turner win, but he did so with a Final Vote-record 20.8 million votes.
Yessir, it was happening again: Why wouldn't he have to wait four days longer than all of the other All-Stars to be anointed as one of them?
"I'm 32 years old. I don't know how many more opportunities I'm going to have to play in an All-Star Game. For the fanbase not only in L.A., but around the country, around world, to get behind me and support me way they did, set a record in votes, was incredible. That's an experience I'll never forget."
Now, 12 years into his professional career, Turner heads into a month that could provide the exclamation point on a baseball life that stretches back to the days he spent lying sprawled out on the floor at his grandparents' house, watching Kirk Gibson slam a homer and the Dodgers shock the Oakland A's in the 1988 World Series.
Now, he could help the Dodgers win their first title since '88.
"He's a guy who's always been a leader in his own right, but the road he's endured, to stabilize himself as a major league player and as an All-Star, to see that unfold..." manager Dave Roberts says. "I empower him a lot in our clubhouse because he believes in what I believe in. He's all about team first. Certain guys just command the respect of their teammates, and J.T.'s at the top of the list."
Red Carpet Parade with @court_with_a_K @Awood45 @suzannavilla #ASG17 https://t.co/FT1Q2yuw5u
People listen to him, a quality that has lifted him into a sort of unofficial co-captaincy role along with well-decorated veteran Chase Utley. When All-Star closer Kenley Jansen briefly wobbled last summer, it was Turner who quietly approached him in a back room and said, Look, I know blowing a save sucks. I know you're pissed. But you are going to get 'em tomorrow; you've got to deal with it. Now go talk to the media and move on.
He knows because he's been in similar straits before. There was that night in New York in 2011, when then-Mets closer Jason Isringhausen was closing in on his 300th career save and Turner fielded a ground ball, lurched to tag the runner going to second, missed, then turned and fired to first, air-mailing the throw over Duda's head. The Mets lost, and Turner wanted to melt right into the earth. Afterward, his close friend David Wright found and counseled him.
"I felt terrible," Turner says. "I came into the locker room after the game scared to death to face the media. I was doing everything in my power to avoid it. I was in the weight room, the training room, and David came in and got me and said, 'Hey, you're going to help us win more games than you're going to lose. Let's go out and talk to the media. They're going to ask questions. Just tell the truth. Just tell them what happened, get it over with and be done with it. And show up tomorrow, and we'll win tomorrow's game.'
"That conversation probably went further than any conversation I've had with anyone on a professional level. It'll stick with me. It sticks with me to this day."
Many things have stuck with Turner over all of these years and, in turn, not only have allowed him to stick around, but to set an example that sticks with others.
So take a good look this month: Baseball's Most Unlikely Superstar, beard as ginger as October leaves, swing as crisp as playoff tension, the shape of him leading the Dodgers.
Why, maybe one day he'll even meet his new texting buddy Sheeran, author of his walk-up song, wearer of his jersey, the singer who rocked his world.
"I'm going to try to," Turner says. "I'm not sure when he'll get back to L.A., but if our schedules can meet, I'm going to try. Otherwise, [if it has to be] somewhere else in the country, maybe in the offseason I'll go and check out a show."
                     
Scott Miller covers Major League Baseball as a national columnist for Bleacher Report. Follow Scott on Twitter and talk baseball.    



Thrifty spenders rarely enjoy shopping in MLB's free agency.
The top options will cost a premium, forcing buyers to stomach a low return on investment. Low-risk fliers with low success rates instead often blossom into the offseason's biggest bargains. 
A player is worth as much as the top bidder offers. As in the case of Ian Desmond last year, that occasionally spurs an out-of-nowhere overpay. Yet a rise in offense and muted midseason trade interest in position players makes pitchers more likely to receive larger contracts than justified this winter. 
Before assuming the worst, let's give some credit to major league front offices. Mark Reynolds is unlikely to parlay a 30-homer campaign into a major payday since everyone knows he benefited from playing in Coors Field. It's why the Colorado Rockies retained him for $1.5 million after he sported an .806 OPS in 2016.
Most teams will also pursue the best relievers regardless of the inning in which they typically enter the game. Fernando Rodney won't get $15 million because he tallied 39 saves. 
Logic, however, tends to fall out the window with regard to serviceable starting pitchers. It's also difficult to resist a career year, even if buyers are purchasing the pending decline rather than the rise. 
Let's take a look at the MLB free agents likely to provide negative value on bloated contracts.

Andrew Cashner received a $10 million contract after he notched a 5.25 ERA in 2016. How will the market respond to this season's 3.40 ERA?
Anyone would be foolish to award him a considerable raise. Despite his improvements during a one-year deal with the Texas Rangers, the 31-year-old righty registered the worst strikeout percentage, swinging-strike percentage and opposing contact rate among all qualified starters. Only fellow free agent Jeremy Hellickson donned a worse expected fielding independent pitching (xFIP), which measures a pitcher's performance with normalized defense and a league-average ratio of home runs to fly balls, than his 5.30. 
He also had MLB's third-lowest home run rate behind Stephen Strasburg and Michael Fulmer without a major dip in fly balls generated.
These red flags are hardly secrets to any MLB front office, but there's nevertheless a low supply of durable pitchers to meet the high demand. Somebody will settle for a placeholder it can trust to take the ball every fifth game, and Cashner threw 166.2 frames in 28 starts.
As a starter with a healthy arm, he's likely to exceed last year's salary. The true danger would come in awarding his unsustainable run prevention with a multiyear deal. Perhaps a rebuilding squad with money to spend (i.e. the Philadelphia Phillies) could live with his ERA rising over a full run as long as he eats innings for a year, but nobody will want to stay attached to Cashner following 2018's inevitable regression.

Based on his last two seasons, Eduardo Nunez justifies a life-changing check.  
The infielder followed a breakout 2016 with an even better 2017, during which he batted .313/.341/.460 with 2.2 WAR in 114 games. It unfortunately ended with him aggravating a knee injury during the postseason, but that won't override his .321/.353/.539 slash line with the Boston Red Sox.
Having increased his slugging percentage in each of the last four seasons—albeit by one point in 2016—Nunez could inspire confidence in continued power gains. Yet even if he keeps belting double-digit home runs, poor plate discipline will force him to running and hit for contact at an elite level.
Speed is one of the first skills to evaporate, and he's a 30-year-old now dealing with knee issues. A suitor should at least assume regression to his career .282 batting average, which means an on-base percentage also dipping to his middling .320 norm.  
Anything worse would make him a below-average hitter, as he posted a 101 weighted runs created plus—a measure of offensive utility where 100 is considered average—while hitting .288/.325/.432 in 2016. Baseball Savant's Statcast data suggest a steeper deterioration is possible, as it calculated a .246 expected batting average this season.
Nunez offers more defensive versatility than his free-agent peers and joins Jose Reyes as the only available infielder who stole at least 20 bags during his walk year. There are enough positives for one team to overlook the negatives, but paying for his prime will bear repercussions.

Although the free-agent class features many strong relievers, Wade Davis stands out as the top-shelf closer with the best chance of capturing a huge payday. 
He should not approach the record-setting $86 million Aroldis Chapman received last offseason. However, the 32-year-old can use Mark Melancon's four-year, $62 million deal as a baseline, even if the San Francisco Giants want a do-over after their well-compensated addition posted a 4.50 ERA. 
Awarding any reliever big money is hazardous. That risk multiplies when remembering Davis went on the disabled list twice in 2016 because of forearm strains. After his second strain, ESPN.com's Stephania Bell warned about the ailment possibly serving as a precursor to UCL problems.
Davis quelled those fears by avoiding a lengthy absence. Traded to the Chicago Cubs, he converted all 32 save opportunities with a 2.30 ERA and 79 strikeouts in 58.2 innings. The righty set personal bests in contact (67.5) and swinging-strike (15.4) percentage.
He also, however, issued a career-high 11.6 walk percentage with 28 base on balls. Declining command becomes particularly cumbersome since his average fastball, cutter and curveball velocity all decreased for the second straight year.
After relinquishing three combined home runs over the previous three seasons, he served up six in 2017.
Another noteworthy postseason from Davis—who allowed one run during the Kansas City Royals' 2014 and 2015 playoff runs—may compel the Cubs or another team need craving a shutdown closer to shell out that fourth year. Such a contract is unlikely to end well.

Pat Neshek's season is an inspiring tale of a cast-aside pitcher posting the highest WAR of any reliever who operated outside the ninth inning. It's also a reminder of the position's volatility.
The Houston Astros saw the veteran sidearmer as an unnecessary source of depth after he recorded a 3.62 ERA in 2015 and 3.06 ERA in 2016. A low-cost add turned into a major trade asset for the Phillies, who exchanged him to the Colorado Rockies after yielding five runs over 43 appearances.
Neshek finished the revelationary season with a 1.59 ERA, 0.87 WHIP, 69 strikeouts and six walks. Now he's poised to capitalize on a strong season, which he also did when last available for hire.
After posting a 1.87 ERA in 2014, he signed a two-year, $12.5 million deal with a $6.5 million club option. Along with salaries rising across the board, the market has since showed more generosity to middle relievers. Even after a middling 2016, Brett Cecil received a $30.5 million contract from the St. Louis Cardinals.
Despite the relatively modest cost, Houston overpaid Neshek for two years before cashing out too soon. Whichever franchise buys his latest breakout year will probably rue paying top dollar to a 37-year-old with a career 3.86 xFIP, especially if it signs him for more than two years.

Eric Hosmer will get paid like a player entering free agency in his prime. He will receive an enormous contract after playing all 162 games and hitting .318/.385/.498 in his age-27 season.
He will not get paid like a first baseman with a career .781 OPS.
Living in the same parallel universe as the Giants, Hosmer has compiled minus-1.8 WAR in three even-numbered years and 11.8 WAR in four odd-numbered seasons. That's not to say he will struggle in 2018 because of some coincidental pattern, but it reveals alarming inconsistency for one of the winter's highly touted players.
His sporadic production does not appear to be hindering interest. According to FanRag Sports' Jon Heyman, the Royals want to retain the homegrown star and are prepared to present him a "serious offer" of "presumably $100 million plus." He also speculated that Kansas City might face big-market competition in the Red Sox and New York Yankees.
Whoever misses out on Hosmer will find cheaper alternatives. Lucas Duda wields a .796 OPS following the second 30-homer season of his career. With an ample supply of power, late bloomers Logan Morrison and Yonder Alonso may not require overpayment.
Unlike Hosmer, Carlos Santana will never bat .300. Yet his keen batting eye is a bankable skill that elevates his floor, diminishing the risk of offering the 31-year-old multiple years. 
Age, health and a Royals squad afraid of losing all its marquee free agents will lead to Hosmer comfortably garnering the biggest contract of any first baseman, and perhaps infielder. Although he would be worth the expenditure if he matches 2017's returns, a nine-figure salary is a lot for someone yet to piece together two strong seasons in succession.

Don't take it personally, Jake Arrieta. Teams often regret paying sticker price for top-shelf hurlers, and the market makes it nearly impossible for any ace to be a free-agent bargain.
While last year's class lacked impact starting pitchers, David Price, Zack Greinke, Johnny Cueto and Jordan Zimmermann all received long-term deals with average annual salaries over $20 million two years ago. Price is spending the postseason as MLB's most expensive reliever. Zimmermann posted a 6.08 ERA, and the Giants probably would not mind if Cueto opted out of his remaining four years after a shaky 2017.
The best of the bunch, Greinke caused panic with a 4.37 ERA in his first year with the Arizona Diamondbacks.
Let's not forget Felix Hernandez, James Shields, Barry Zito, Johan Santana and Mike Hampton. The cost-benefit analysis rarely yields a profitable return for top-tier starters, and Arrieta is already trending the wrong way.
The Cubs righty, who will turn 32 next March, lost 1.7 mph on his fastball this season. As a result of his deteriorating velocity, his swinging-strike rate dropped from 10.5 to 8.7 percent. His hard-hit rate, meanwhile, soared to his highest clip (29.4 percent) since 2010's rookie season. 
These metrics materialized in a 3.53 ERA and 4.11 xFIP, his highest marks in four full seasons with the Cubs.
Arrieta's final act will get ugly if attached to a massive salary. A reasonably optimistic scenario could entail his replicating CC Sabathia's career arc from workhorse ace to a steady, yet overpaid mid-tier starter.
Before the 2015 NL Cy Young Award winner suffered a leg injury in September, MLB.com's Jim Duquette envisioned Arrieta drawing a "four- or five-year deal worth upwards of $120 million to $130 million." A strong second half likely salvaged most of his free-agent stock anyway. Such a seismic contract could turn into a payroll albatross as soon as next year.

It's not only front-line starters who get overpaid. In the same 2015 offseason that turned David Price, Zack Greinke, Johnny Cueto and Jordan Zimmermann into some of the country's richest athletes, Wei-Yin Chen and Ian Kennedy respectively commanded $80 million and $70 million.
There aren't many high-quality alternatives to Jake Arrieta and Yu Darvish, another prime overpay candidate, which bodes well for Lance Lynn. He and Alex Cobb sit alone in the class's second tier of starters, making them expensive backup plans or the top targets for mid-market organizations unable to afford a true star.
Lynn should outearn Cobb because of his superior ERA in both 2017 (3.43) and his career (3.38). While both recently went under the knife, the St. Louis Cardinals righty has made over 30 appearances in five straight seasons (he missed all of 2016 while recovering from Tommy John surgery).
Jim Duquette of MLB.com said the 30-year-old could realistically collect $90 million over five years, which would match Jeff Samardzija's deal signed at the same age two years ago. Yet despite his maddening inning-by-inning inconsistency, only Max Scherzer—a rare successful marquee pitching signing—has worked more frames than "Shark" in the past five seasons. 
Lynn, meanwhile, has a torn UCL on his ledger. He also labored down the stretch with 60 strikeouts to 40 walks over 84 subpar second-half innings, suffering regression's wrath when the Pittsburgh Pirates pounded him for eight runs in Sept. 23's opening inning.
Career-worst strikeout (19.7) and walk (10.1) percentages do not bode well for his second season removed from surgery. His pre-injury success and an otherwise hollow market will preserve his market value anyway, making Lynn someone to avoid.
             
All advanced stats courtesy of FanGraphs unless otherwise noted.



The Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees were in lock step Sunday. These two long-time rivals were both down and out as out as they prepared to face the Houston Astros and Cleveland Indians, respectively.
Both had suffered a pair of painful losses on the road, and sweeps seemed likely in both cases. But the Sox and the Bronx Bombers both had pride and a heartbeat. Those factors can take strong challengers a long way.
Both teams survived their Sunday encounters, and they remain alive in the American League Division Series.
The Red Sox were hoping that Doug Fister would give them a solid pitching effort, but the Astros smoked him for three runs in the first inning. Since the Red Sox had scored two runs in each of the first two games, that could have been enough to give the Astros another win and a 3-0 series sweep.
However, the Red Sox saw their bats come alive, and they also received four scintillating innings of relief pitching from David Price. Boston came away with a 10-3 victory.
With the @Yankees’ season on the line, Masahiro Tanaka was at his very best: https://t.co/I348D2ZUgX #ALDS https://t.co/mMEXakK5DN
The Yankees sent Masahiro Tanaka to the mound Sunday night against Cleveland pitcher Carlos Carrasco. The game was scoreless into the seventh inning when Greg Bird launched a home run to give the Yankees a 1-0 lead. They held on to that advantage as fireballer Aroldis Chapman recorded a five-out save. The Yankees registered their first win of the series.
The Sox and Yankees both trail 2-1 in their best-of-5 series, and both will play Monday in an effort to square their respective series
The Red Sox will send Rick Porcello to the mound against Charlie Morton at 1:08 p.m. in a game that will be televised by FS1.
Porcello was the Cy Young Award winner in 2016, but he struggled all season in 2017, and he was 11-16 with a 4.70 earned-run average. Porcello's success last year was based on his ability to keep the ball down and get ground ball outs. He has not been able to do that this year, as he has given up 38 home runs.
Morton was dependable for the Astros with a 14-7 record and a 3.62 ERA. Morton gave up 14 home runs this season, but he had better than a 3-1 strikeout-to-walk ratio. The Astros are minus-114 favorites and the Red Sox are plus-104 underdogs, according to OddsShark.
The Yankees will host the Indians at 7:08 p.m., and that game will also be televised by FS1. Yankee ace Luis Severino will take the mound for the home team, and he was 14-6 with a 2.98 ERA. Josh Tomlin will take the mound for the Tribe, and he was 10-9 with a 4.98 ERA.
The matchup should favor the Yankees because Serverino was so effective this year, but he got hit hard in the first inning by the Minnesota Twins in the wild-card game last week. A top pitcher like Severino should be able to shake off a poor outing. The Yankees are minus-161 favorites, while the Indians are plus-151 underdogs.
Previewing tomorrow's NLDS Game 3 matchup:

Max Scherzer vs. Jose Quintana https://t.co/2BWQzG25CC via @ChiTribSkrbina https://t.co/yQENk6C0rF
The Chicago Cubs are hosting the Washington Nationals in their NLDS series Monday afternoon at 4:08 p.m. That game will be televised by TBS.
Manager Joe Maddon will send Jose Quintana to the mound for his first postseason assignment, and he will oppose Washington fireballer Max Scherzer.
Quintana was 11-11 with a 4.15 ERA, while Scherzer was a masterful 16-6 with a 2.51 ERA. This is clearly the biggest assignment of Quintana's career, as he was with the Chicago White Sox before being acquired this season in a trade. The White Sox never made the postseason during Quintana's run on the South Side.
Scherzer had a hamstring issue in his last start of the regular season, and while the Nationals believe he should be fine for this start, he will have to prove himself by getting deep into the game.
The series is ted at 1-1, and the Nationals are minus-120 favorites, while the Cubs are plus-110 underdogs in Game 3.
The Los Angeles Dodgers have a chance to end their series with the Arizona Diamondbacks after recording a pair of victories at Dodger Stadium. The series shifts to Chase Field in the desert, and the home team will try to earn its first win in the series.
First pitch is scheduled for 10:08 p.m., and the game will be broadcast by TBS.

Yu Darvish will take the mound for the Dodgers, and he was 10-12 with a 3.86 ERA, and he will be opposed by Arizona ace Zack Greinke, who was 17-7 with a 3.20 ERA.
Greinke pitched for the Diamondbacks win their wild-card win over the Colorado Rockies, but he was hit hard in giving up five hits and four runs in the fourth inning of that game.
The Dodgers are minus-115 favorites to close out the series, while the Diamondbacks are plus-105 underdogs to stay alive and force a fourth game.
       
Predictions
The Red Sox have some momentum after scoring 10 runs at home against the Astros, but Porcello has struggled all season. It doesn't seem likely that he will regain his form against the hot-hitting visitors. Look for Jose Altuve, George Springer and Carlos Correa to take charge and lash the ball all over Fenway.
The Astros will take Game 4 and advance to the American League Championship Series.
Severino will likely pitch much better than he did against the Twins, but the Indians are just too good to be shut down two games in a row. Francisco Lindor may be the best clutch player in the game, and Jose Ramirez is right behind.
The Indians will find a way to close out the Yankees in New York.
The Nationals were able to rid themselves of quite a bit of pressure when they rallied for five runs in the bottom of the eighth inning of their Game 2 victory. They should go to Wrigley Field with clear minds, and if their ace can survive physically, the Nats should be able to put runs on the board against Quintana. Look for the visitors to earn a 2-1 lead in the series.
The Diamondbacks are too good to get swept in their series. While Darvish is capable of pitching well and fooling Arizona's hitters, he won't be able to do it for more than four innings. The Diamondbacks will figure him out and Greinke will get the job done for the Diamondbacks. 
Arizona wins and forces a fourth game.



Bleacher Report's final positional power rankings for the 2017 Major League Baseball season now heads from behind the plate to the middle of the diamond, starting with second basemen.
Second base wasn't as star-studded in 2017 as it was in 2016, which was potentially the best year ever for the position. There were nonetheless 25 players worthy of inclusion in the final 300.
Here are the ground rules: 
The rankings were a simple judgment call. Baseball Reference's version of wins above replacement was useful in this respect but was treated more as a guideline than the word of the baseball gods.
Lastly, this was neither a far-reaching retrospective nor a gaze into the future. Only what happened in 2017 counted.

In the year 2017, it's ill-advised and arguably irresponsible to talk about players in detail without using statistics to contextualize their talents and shortcomings.
So, be warned: There are indeed statistics in these rankings.
Many stats will simply be alluded to via links that go to relevant data at Baseball Reference, FanGraphs, Baseball Savant, Brooks Baseball and Baseball Prospectus. But a few to know are...
                              
Wins Above Replacement (WAR): As a stat that puts a number on a player's hitting, baserunning and fielding contributions, WAR is a good go-to in any circumstance.
On-Base Plus Slugging Plus (OPS+): This takes a player's OPS, adjusts it for league and ballpark factors and puts it on a scale where 100 represents average. It shows how well a hitter performed relative to his peers.
Defensive Runs Saved (DRS): It sounds like a measurement of a player's defensive quality, and that's what it is. It's the main defense component for Baseball Reference's version of WAR. Some play multiple positions, but the DRS listed for them here is that of their primary position.
Launch Angle: This Statcast specialty measures the angle of the ball off a hitter's bat. It provides a snapshot of the shape of a hitter's swing—i.e. whether it's flat and tailored for ground balls and line drives or lofty and tailored for fly balls. The MLB average in 2017 was 11.1 degrees.
Exit Velocity: Another Statcast specialty that measures the speed of the ball off a hitter's bat. As you'd expect, there's a strong correlation between high speeds and hitting success. The MLB average in 2017 was 86.6 miles per hour.
Plate Discipline: Although they'll rarely be mentioned explicitly, Swing% (percentage of swings at all pitches), Z-Swing% (in-zone swing percentage) and O-Swing% (out-of-zone swing percentage) paint a picture of a hitter's approach. These figures are found at FanGraphs.
Pull Percentage (Pull%): Also from FanGraphs, this shows the rate at which hitters pull the ball—to left field for righties and to right field for lefties. Pulling the ball is a double-edged sword: It can make a hitter vulnerable to shifts but is also by far the best avenue to power.

Age: 38
Key Stats: 127 G, 353 PA, .236/.324/.405, 92 OPS+, 8 HR, 6 SB, 1 DRS
WAR: 1.0
                 
2017 Player Report
Chase Utley is far from his former MVP-caliber self, but his advancing age isn't robbing him of his usefulness.
Some of that has to do with how the Los Angeles Dodgers deploy him as a part-time player who only sees at-bats against right-handers. But Utley still has tricks up his sleeve.
In 2017, an old one was a selective approach that ensured he'd be a tough out. A new one was an increase in batted balls to left field, which helped quell the shift onslaught he saw in 2016. That wasn't a cure-all for his hitting, but it helped keep his bat relatively close to league average.
Utley still runs well for a guy who's pushing 40, sprinting faster than the league average of 27 feet-per-second, and continues to have energy to burn on defense. Even if it's far from its vintage form, said energy kept his defensive range from drying up into nothing.
            
Honorable Mentions: Rougned Odor (TEX), Ben Zobrist (CHC), Yoan Moncada (CHW), Ozzie Albies (ATL), Ronald Torreyes (NYY)

Age: 31
Key Stats: 94 G, 299 PA, .273/.393/.378, 104 OPS+, 3 HR, 3 SB, 5 DRS
WAR: 1.9
                    
2017 Player Report
Eric Sogard wasn't known for his bat during his six seasons with the Oakland Athletics, so it was never likely that his hot start with the Milwaukee Brewers would last. Sure enough, it didn't.
It's nonetheless fair to say he advanced his offensive game. After missing 2016 with a knee injury, he returned with a more disciplined approach. His BB% ballooned to 15.1, and swinging at better pitches permitted him to make more frequent hard contact.
His weak arm is one nit to pick regarding his defense, but he gets good reads on plays and makes outs with his soft hands and quick, smooth actions. And while he's best at second base, he's competent enough at other positions to round out a versatile defensive profile.
The only big knock against Sogard is that he wasn't an everyday player in 2017.

Age: 25
Key Stats: 135 G, 480 PA, .267/.317/.447, 89 OPS+, 13 HR, 1 SB, 5 DRS
WAR: 1.6
               
2017 Player Report
As in 2016, Brandon Drury had ups and downs in 2017. But also as in 2016, he came out looking like a passable regular.
The fact that he sees so many pitches in the strike zone indicates that pitchers aren't afraid of his power and means he can't squeeze many free passes out his patient approach. He finished with just a 5.8 BB%.
Drury at least kept his power from deflating, however. He had been a more of a pull-power guy before. But in 2017, he sprayed his hits around and found himself enjoying line-to-line power production.
In the baserunning and defense departments, Drury was more aggressive on the bases and played a solid second base after flopping as an outfielder in 2016. His deep positioning sometimes created trouble when he had to come in on the ball, but he made plenty of plays that he had to make.

Age: 30
Key Stats: 119 G, 439 PA, .224/.351/.327, 82 OPS+, 6 HR, 3 SB, 5 DRS
WAR: 1.8
                           
2017 Player Report
It was easiest to notice Logan Forsythe when he was on defense in 2017.
He made the leap from everyday second basemen to super-utilityman look easy thanks to a high motor and athletic tools that played wherever the Dodgers had him on a given day. That was second base and third base for the most part, and he played both positions well.
It might look like Forsythe didn't do anything else of note, but his on-base percentage is worth a tip o' the hat.
He swung only 32.5 percent of the time, easily the lowest rate in MLB. The wisdom of that can be questioned to a degree, but it's hard to argue with his 15.7 BB%. And while he didn't have much to show for it, his 88.8 mph exit velocity is good enough to wonder whether he deserved better when he did swing.

Age: 30
Key Stats: 128 G, 512 PA, .255/.314/.416, 94 OPS+, 18 HR, 3 SB, -2 DRS
WAR: 1.3
            
2017 Player Report
Yangervis Solarte logged over 500 plate appearances for a third time in four seasons and was his usual self to some extents.
As much as he likes to swing the bat, it was another year in which he was in control at the plate. His plate appearances typically ended in either a free pass (7.2 BB%) or a ball in play (11.9 K%). 
Solarte's missing ingredient, however, was good contact. Like many hitters, he's upping his launch angle as the Statcast era progresses. But as his 85.4 mph exit velocity reflects, he doesn't have the pop to get the most out of an elevated swing. Many of his fly balls and line drives went out with a whimper.
Solarte's limited athleticism holds him back on the bases and on defense. But with routine plays presenting no problems, his defense in 2017 was much like his offense: unspectacular but reliable.

Age: 36
Key Stats: 144 G, 604 PA, .285/.319/.416, 93 OPS+, 13 HR, 11 SB, -7 DRS
WAR: 0.8
           
2017 Player Report
Brandon Phillips is an aging star who can't stop swinging at everything, is now one of MLB's slower second basemen and one of the softest hitters of any position.
But if he was one of the X-Men, his power would be finding ways to remain relevant.
Phillips hasn't lost his long-held ability to put the bat on the ball. His 12.1 K% from 2017 is one of the lowest of his career. And despite what his 84.5 mph exit velocity would suggest, he made contact with a purpose. He didn't hit it hard, but his all-fields talent was often an exercise in hitting it where they ain't.
The veteran's diminishing speed didn't stop him from running the bases aggressively. And while his negative DRS is reflective of his defensive decline, his smooth hands and creative mind allowed him to remain more of an asset than a liability. In all, this is a case of WAR underrating a capable everyday player.

Age: 26
Key Stats: 130 G, 537 PA, .291/.351/.430, 107 OPS+, 10 HR, 4 SB, -11 DRS
WAR: 1.3
                            
2017 Player Report
An August stint on the concussion DL aside, Joe Panik largely managed to avoid the injury bug in 2017. That freed him to do the things he does best. 
His top talent is making contact, as no qualified hitter beat his Contact% of 89.9 percent. With solid discipline also part of his skill set, he balanced an 8.0 BB% with a 9.4 K%.
Although Panik's 84.5 mph exit velocity paints a fair picture of his power, not many can spray line drives in all directions like he can. That was a boost not just to his batting average, but also to his slugging percentage by way of 28 doubles and five triples.
Alas, his defense did decline from its Gold Glove-winning form of 2016. He may have cost himself range with his ultra-shallow positioning. And with nine errors and a lower conversion rate on routine plays, he didn't fit the bill as sure-handed either.

Age: 26
Key Stats: 108 G, 411 PA, .285/.376/.412, 109 OPS+, 4 HR, 8 SB, -1 DRS
WAR: 1.9
               
2017 Player Report
Injuries killed some of Kolten Wong's buzz this season, as he missed time with elbow and triceps injuries and developed an achy back toward the end of the year.
Other than that, though, 2017 marked a long-awaited step forward for Wong.
He tried to do too much at the plate in years past. That was the case no longer in 2017, as he swung at fewer bad pitches and stopped trying to pull everything. He became more of a gap hitter, and benefited with 26 doubles without having to sacrifice what had been working before. Namely: his walk and strikeout rates.
Wong's next step must be achieving more consistency on defense. His range and smooth actions can make him look like an elite fielder at times, but he was once again one of the worst at converting routine plays in 2017. Those count, too.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 112 G, 473 PA, .300/.338/.454, 106 OPS+, 16 HR, 2 SB, -6 DRS
WAR: 2.0
                        
2017 Player Report
Normally a lock for over 150 games, Starlin Castro was off the field for a large chunk of 2017 due to hamstring injuries, which helped derail his production in the latter part of the year.
On the bright side, he carried over the power surge he enjoyed upon arriving in New York in 2016. He managed 87.4 mph exit velocity and took an already elevated pull rate even higher. If he'd stayed healthy, he might've had a shot at 25 homers.
However, Castro was the same player in more frustrating ways as well.
He continued to swing his bat too often for his own good, leaving walks on the table. And while it's not as big a deal at second base as it was at shortstop, he's just not a good defender. The athleticism is there, but his iffy instincts and clunky actions continue to hold him back.

Age: 31
Key Stats: 111 G, 448 PA, .265/.362/.439, 111 OPS+, 14 HR, 0 SB, -5 DRS
WAR: 1.5
         
2017 Player Report
Neil Walker is getting up there in age and, just in roughly the past year, has had back surgery and missed time with a hamstring injury. So, forgive him for not running fast or hitting hard.
But while you're at it, also give him credit for remaining a credible offensive threat.
That's partially owed to an improved approach that had been trending toward excess aggression. That's where he got his 12.3 BB% and 17.12 K%. And despite his diminished pop, he kept his power afloat by keeping his launch angle up and putting plenty of balls in the air, often to his pull side.
On defense, Walker wasn't known for being an athletic spectacle even before his physical issues. But he gets enough out of what he has and can at least be counted on not to boot routine plays. He was a better sum of parts than his 2017 WAR lets on.

Age: 34
Key Stats: 105 G, 463 PA, .293/.369/.392, 101 OPS+, 7 HR, 4 SB, -2 DRS
WAR: 1.5
                 
2017 Player Report
After a smooth 2016, Dustin Pedroia went back to a bedraggled, banged-up existence in 2017. It affected his performance, as he ran at slow speeds and no longer packed a punch with his exit velocity.
The fact that he was productive anyway speaks volumes.
Exit velocity is nice, but Pedroia proved he doesn't need it to be a dangerous hitter. With a selective approach and one of MLB's best contact habits, he drew about more walks (49) as strikeouts (48). His line-drive swing hasn't gone anywhere, and he once again got good results out of applying it to all fields.
Defensively, DRS doesn't do Pedroia's glove justice. He's as sure a thing as there is on routine plays, and his diminishing athleticism is dragging down neither his instincts nor his effort level. His range is surviving because of it.

Age: 35
Key Stats: 139 G, 613 PA, .236/.313/.412, 90 OPS+, 22 HR, 14 SB, 6 DRS
WAR: 2.1
              
2017 Player Report
Ian Kinsler just finished off his worst offensive season.
It wasn't because of his hitting style. He's been keeping the ball off the ground for a lot longer than most, and he's long maintained a below average K% despite doing so. And in 2017, he chose his swings carefully and worked an above average BB% for the first time since 2013.
Pitchers just didn't give him much to work with. He saw few fastballs and his lowest strike zone percentage ever. It's no wonder his exit velocity took a step down from its 2016 perch.
On the plus side, Kinsler remained aggressive on the bases and an ageless wonder on defense. With the latter, he was money in the bank on routine plays and maintained good range despite his age. Quick reactions and a high-running motor can have that effect.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 141 G, 497 PA, .298/.342/.531, 124 OPS+, 27 HR, 3 SB, -8 DRS
WAR: 2.4
              
2017 Player Report
It seemed like the flukiest of flukes when Scooter Gennett hit four homers in a single game in June. Instead, that was the opening statement of a legit breakout.
The fact that he averaged only 86 mph exit velocity, but he had ways of getting around that. Namely: a higher launch angle and pull rate that allowed for many balls in the air toward the best power avenue there is. Great American Ball Park helped, but he essentially willed himself to a life of above average offense.
It's a good thing he had that, as he didn't bring much else to the table.
Gennett is a slow runner and he proved unable to escape his previous life as a below average defender. His effort level and general sure-handedness are worth something, but not too much as long as they're coupled with fringy tools that limit the scope of what he can do.

Age: 27
Key Stats: 128 G, 577 PA, .294/.373/.421, 112 OPS+, 9 HR, 15 SB, -2 DRS
WAR: 3.1
              
2017 Player Report
Cesar Hernandez was something of a hidden offensive gem in 2016, hitting .294 with a .371 OBP. It took a six-week spell on the DL for him to get back to that level this season.
He went on hitting .277 with a .336 OBP and came out hitting .308 with a .403 OBP. Without the punch to generate high exit velocity, this was a matter of a sharpened approach and a return to good at-bats.
Elsewhere, Hernandez remained one of the faster runners among his second base brethren. And he was better at picking his spots, boosting his stolen base percentage from 57 percent in 2016 up to 75 percent.
His poor defense is somewhat tied to the oblique injury that put him on the DL. He rated positively before that, per MLB Trade Rumors. Given that he lacked quickness and throwing strength even before his injury, it's no wonder his defense was slow to recover.

Age: 30
Key Stats: 128 G, 542 PA, .272/.339/.432, 101 OPS+, 16 HR, 12 SB, 6 DRS
WAR: 3.3
       
2017 Player Report
A broken hand ended Josh Harrison's season early, but not before he'd enjoyed another year as a productive bundle of energy.
Although the catch (pun kinda-sorta intended) with his defense is that routine plays can escape him, he once again made up for it by making plays all over thanks to his athleticism and high-running motor. And not just at second base, either.
Harrison was also one of MLB's faster second basemen, and this year was just the latest in which he wasn't shy about using his speed. Beyond stealing bases, he was frequently taking extra bases on hits.
At the plate, Harrison kept swinging at everything and produced just an 84.1 mph exit velocity when he made contact. However, his season is a case of how putting enough balls in play with a high enough launch angle can still save par. And on occasion, he would put a serious charge into the ball.

Age: 25
Key Stats: 141 G, 534 PA, .267/.319/.413, 96 OPS+, 12 HR, 8 SB, 8 DRS
WAR: 3.5
          
2017 Player Report
Defense was Yolmer Sanchez's top selling point in 2017, and not just because the Chicago White Sox could play him at shortstop and third base in addition to second base.
Courtesy of quick actions and movements, he covered a ton of ground. Throw in a quick release that was handy on double plays, and you get a defender who leaves little to be desired.
It was Sanchez's offensive game that fell short. He has yet to be a productive baserunner despite his good speed, and his hitting profile contained neither patience nor contact nor power. Regarding the latter, his 83.8 mph exit velocity made him one of 2017's softest hitters.
And yet, his offense was good enough to justify keeping his glove in the lineup. He may not be dangerous or especially pesky, but he keeps himself afloat with a line-drive stroke that goes to all fields.

Age: 34
Key Stats: 150 G, 648 PA, .280/.338/.453, 112 OPS+, 23 HR, 1 SB, 0 DRS
WAR: 3.4
           
2017 Player Report
After Robinson Cano breathed fresh life into his superstardom in 2016, this season marked a turn back toward mortality.
The power surge that produced a career-high 39 homers in '16 disappeared this year, which mostly had to do with his going back to his natural, flatter swing rather than continue to fight in the launch angle revolution.
There was otherwise plenty to appreciate about Cano's hitting. He remains an aggressive swinger, but with an excellent bat-to-ball skill (see his 13.1 K%) and an ability to generate good exit velocity in any direction. Regardless of his power, he remains one of the best pure hitters in baseball.
It's a good thing he can still hit, because his bag of tricks is otherwise empty. He was the slowest second baseman of 2017. And while he's still smooth as silk on defense, even his deep positioning couldn't expand his usefulness beyond easy plays.

Age: 29
Key Stats: 158 G, 695 PA, .308/.341/.375, 94 OPS+, 2 HR, 60 SB, 3 DRS
WAR: 3.1
            
2017 Player Report
Following a 2016 season marred by a performance-enhancing drug suspension, Dee Gordon was back to his usual tricks in 2017.
He's one of the softest hitters in MLB, hence why he sees so many pitches in the strike zone. Yet he plays the hand he's dealt well.
He puts the ball in play, finishing 2017 with just a 13.4 K%. He also keeps the ball out of the air, opting to hit it on the ground and use his unparalleled speed at the position to leg out hits. Said speed also made him a threat on the bases, where he was one of MLB's most productive players.
His speed is also an asset on defense. There are second basemen with better hands, arms and/or instincts, but the huge range Gordon's legs afford him is worth a lot. Add it all up, and you get a capable all-around second baseman who plays every day.

Age: 33
Key Stats: 153 G, 645 PA, .277/.360/.448, 119 OPS+, 14 HR, 0 SB, -2 DRS
WAR: 4.0
          
2017 Player Report
This season was a good example of the rule of thumb with Jed Lowrie: If he's healthy, he'll hit.
His offensive game starts with an approach that seems aggressive based on his overall swing rate, but is revealed as the right kind of aggressive based on his out-of-zone and in-zone swing rates. He spits on bad pitches and attacks good ones.
That's how he balanced an 11.3 BB% with a 15.5 K%, and how he made such solid contact. And with a natural uppercut swing that keeps the ball off the ground, his contact was liable to do damage. See also: his 49 doubles.
When he wasn't hitting, however, Lowrie didn't offer much. He went station-to-station on the bases. And while he's smooth on defense, his hands, range and arm all fail to impress and limit what he can do when he has a glove on his hand.

Age: 32
Key Stats: 144 G, 593 PA, .322/.384/.543, 136 OPS+, 23 HR, 2 SB, -15 DRS
WAR: 2.8
           
2017 Player Report
If Launch Angle: The Motion Picture was coming soon to a theater near you, Daniel Murphy's face would be on the poster.
"Get to 9, 10 degrees and an infielder cannot catch it. And then 25, 27 [degrees] is the sweet spot for home runs," he told FanGraphs' Travis Sawchik.
At 17.3 degrees, Murphy's average launch angle fell roughly in the middle of these sweet spots. And while his exit velocity was down from 2016, it was still a rock-solid 89.6 mph. Thus did his power awakening take only a small step back. In the meantime, he continued to mix contact (13.0 K%) and patience (8.8 BB%).
Trouble is, Murphy's bat is his only real source of value. He was one of MLB's slowest second basemen, and his poor defense is nothing new. Poor range is his biggest problem on that front. But since he was at least efficient on routine plays this year, there's an argument that his DRS exaggerates how bad he was.

Age: 29
Key Stats: 155 G, 682 PA, .310/.374/.409, 94 OPS+, 8 HR, 6 SB, 8 DRS
WAR: 2.9
                     
2017 Player Report
Although his 2016 approach earned him a batting title (.348 average), DJ LeMahieu neglected to further pursue the power spike he enjoyed. He lowered his launch angle and went old-school.
With an elite 89.7 Contact%, LeMahieu instead emphasized putting the ball in play above all else. He also pulled the ball more rarely than any hitter. The Arizona Diamondbacks had the right idea in leaving left field open for him, but it's hard to defend a pure line-drive stroke such as LeMahieu's.
So if anyone's thinking of crediting Coors Field for his success, here's a hint: don't. For that matter, even OPS+ misses the mark on his quality as a hitter.
LeMahieu's also a gifted defender. His great feel for second base and his accurate throwing arm make him a lock on routine plays, and these same things also allow for plentiful range.

Age: 28
Key Stats: 145 G, 630 PA, .288/.324/.460, 105 OPS+, 19 HR, 34 SB, 5 DRS
WAR: 3.9
               
2017 Player Report
Let's get right to the heart of this thing: Was Whit Merrifield for real, or nah?
Well, three notable hot streaks aided his big breakout. And in general, it is suspect that an older non-prospect who was a slap hitter in the minors could become so productive in the majors.
But, you can't be a slap hitter without a skill for at least having a knack for contact. Merrifield then gained a bunch of weight, tweaked his swing and upped his launch angle. Thus did he add real power to his game, and benefited with 32 doubles and six triples to go with his 19 homers.
Meanwhile, he was one of the faster second basemen of 2017 and put that speed to appropriate use on the basepaths. He also needed the range he got from his speed to help offset his issues with routine plays on defense.

Age: 30
Key Stats: 152 G, 705 PA, .269/.357/.496, 126 OPS+, 34 HR, 16 SB, -4 DRS
WAR: 4.5
                
2017 Player Report
After he was arguably MLB's top second baseman in 2016, the step down that Brian Dozier took in 2017 was probably inevitable.
His offensive M.O. is to keep his bat on his shoulder until he gets something he can pull in the air. But pitchers avoided his pull power by pounding him up and away this year, and it worked. Both his pull and fly-ball percentages declined. 
Still, Dozier didn't get completely off his game. He stayed within his approach well enough to work an 11.1 BB% and continued to knock well-hit balls to left field to keep his power afloat.
Meanwhile, he was again one of MLB's faster second basemen and a better defender than his DRS lets on. It seems like he has to dive for everything, but it's hard to fault him for that as long as he's making plays. And 2017 was another year in which there weren't many he couldn't make.

Age: 25
Key Stats: 160 G, 675 PA, .293/.338/.503, 123 OPS+, 32 HR, 1 SB, 2 DRS
WAR: 5.1
           
2017 Player Report
Suddenly, Jonathan Schoop became a star in 2017.
He always had the underlying talent for it, but he would waste too many swings in his previous life. He would chase anything, which only works if you can hit anything. To that end, he was no Vladimir Guerrero.
But this year, both Schoop's swing and chase rates were way down. That didn't fix everything that ailed his bat, but it allowed him to make more frequent use of a swing that already had a built-in knack for power via launch angle and exit velocity. All this year did was take it to another level.
On defense, Schoop is an exception to the rule of weak-armed second basemen. His arm is a gun, and it's a big reason he converted more double plays than anyone at his position. He also covered a good amount of ground for a guy his size (6'1", 225 lbs).

Age: 27
Key Stats: 153 G, 662 PA, .346/.410/.547, 164 OPS+, 24 HR, 32 SB, 3 DRS
WAR: 8.3
          
2017 Player Report
What? You expected to see somebody other than Jose Altuve in this spot?
The one knock against him is that he's more so a passable defender than a great one. He puts as much effort into his defense as he does the other aspects of his game, and he'll keep making it onto highlight reels because of that. But with a limited reach and a weak arm, he can only be so good.
But, man, can the guy can hit. This was established well before this season, of course, and the only thing Altuve did differently was get back to using the opposite field. Otherwise, his hitting was the usual blend of elite contact and surprising power.
And don't forget Altuve's baserunning. He was better about picking his spots on stolen bases, failing only six times in 38 attempts. He also offered par-for-the-course aggression en route to elite baserunning value.
Maybe somebody should give this guy an MVP.
            
UP NEXT: The Top 25 Shortstops of 2017 on Wednesday, October 11.



The New York Yankees live to fight another day after defeating the Cleveland Indians 1-0 in Game 3 of the American League Division Series Sunday night in Yankee Stadium. The Indians remain ahead 2-1 in the series.
Both starting pitchers did more than enough to put their teams in a position to win.
Carlos Carrasco went 5.2 scoreless innings, allowing three hits and striking out seven. Carrasco left with the bases loaded and two out in the bottom of the sixth, and Andrew Miller got Starlin Castro to fly out to Francisco Lindor to end the inning.
Miller remained in the game for the seventh, and the normally dominant left-hander allowed the go-ahead home run to Greg Bird to open the inning. Bird's mammoth blast landed just short of the third deck in right field.
MLB provided a second look at the homer:
Bye, bye Birdie. #ALDS https://t.co/62XHZeb5cx
ESPN.com's Buster Olney noted Miller had only allowed a home run to one other left-handed batter this year.
Former Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez praised how well Bird has hit the ball of late:
Greg Bird: showing lots of character and poise finishing the year strong. 5HR in his last 31 at bats. 10 RBI in his last 10 games #mlb #ALDS
That one run was enough after the gem Masahiro Tanaka delivered for the Yankees. Tanaka went seven innings and finished with seven strikeouts. He also held the duo of Lindor and Jay Bruce—two of the Indians hottest hitters—without a hit in their first six combined at-bats.
Tampa Bay Rays starting pitcher Chris Archer thought the Japanese right-hander brought a little something extra to the mound Sunday:
Tanaka is feeling good tonight (obviously). He just hit 96. Haven't seen that from him in a while.
Tanaka could thank Aaron Judge for keeping the game tied 0-0 in the top of the sixth. Roberto Perez led off the inning with a single, and Lindor hit a drive to right field that looked destined for the seats. Instead, the 6'7" Judge reached his left hand up and robbed Lindor of a two-run home run.
MLB shared a replay of the catch:
“Denied.” -@TheJudge44 https://t.co/9oqkAM8BsO
After Tanaka exited the game, David Robertson and Aroldis Chapman combined to pitch the final two innings. Robertson went 0.1 innings and Chapman handled the rest.
Chapman's five-out save wasn't without drama. He allowed one-out singles to Jason Kipnis and Jose Ramirez to put runners on first and second. From there, the four-time All-Star struck out Bruce and got Carlos Santana to fly out to center field and end the game.
The fact that Yankees manager Joe Girardi was able to rest most of his relief options undoubtedly helps New York's chances of coming back from a 2-0 series deficit.
Game 4 is scheduled for 7 p.m. ET Monday night in the Big Apple. Luis Severino will start for the Yankees, and Indians announced Trevor Bauer will take the mound for Cleveland.



After getting blitzed in the first two games of the American League Division Series on the road, the Boston Red Sox are hoping that a return to Fenway Park will help them get back into their American League Division Series against the Houston Astros.
The New York Yankees played more competitively against the Cleveland Indians than the Red Sox did against the Astros, but the Bronx Bombers are in the same 0-2 hole as their ancient rivals. The Yankees will try to stay alive by winning Sunday at Yankee Stadium.
The Astros are not likely to be intimidated by going to Boston. They defeated the Red Sox in three of four games at Fenway Park in the final weekend of the regular season. The Astros reeled off a pair of 8-2 victories in the first two games of the series, and Houston's offense was on fire.
José Altuve with the 10th 3-HR game in postseason history. He's the second 2B to do it, and second straight Venezuelan-born player to do it. https://t.co/h0tbwQZ6qv
Nobody was hotter than second baseman Jose Altuve, who bashed three home runs in the series opener, including two against Red Sox ace Chris Sale. Alex Bregman, Carlos Correa and George Springer also have hit home runs for the Astros.
While Houston has been bombing away, the Red Sox offense has been somewhat inept. Mookie Betts has three hits, but Xander Bogaerts is hitless in nine at bats while Andrew Benintendi has just one hit in the series. The Red Sox have not hit a home run yet in the first two games against the Astros.
Doug Fister will take the mound for the Red Sox in Game 3, while Brad Peacock will have the starting assignment for the Astros. Fister has a career postseason record of 4-1 with a 1.78 earned-run average.
Peacock was 13-2 for the Astros this season with a 3.00 ERA. He has a 1-2 lifetime record against the Red Sox with a 9.00 ERA.
First pitch is scheduled for 2:38 p.m. ET, and the game will be televised by FS1.
GRAND SLAM! After a controversial hit-by-pitch to load the bases with two outs, Francisco Lindor hits it out! The Yankees' lead is 8-7. https://t.co/gQg74dmKhL
The Yankees had a five-run lead in Game 2 at Cleveland, but the Indians came back when Francisco Lindor launched a grand slam in the sixth inning before Jay Bruce tied the game with a solo home run in the bottom of the eighth inning.
The Indians finished the job in the bottom of the 13th inning when Yan Gomes drove in Austin Jackson with a base hit down the left field line that gave Cleveland a 9-8 victory and a 2-0 lead in the series.
The Indians will send Carlos Carrasco to the mound and he will be opposed by Masahiro Tanaka. Carrasco had a strong season and was 18-6 with a 3.29 ERA this season.
Tanaka came into the year as the ace of the New York staff, but he was inconsistent. He finished the year with a 13-12 mark and a 4.74 ERA.
Cleveland manager Terry Francona is thrilled with the way his team has played and fought all season and through the first two games of the playoffs.
"It's hard to win," Francona said, per Stats TSX (h/t CBSSports). "That wouldn't take away from how I feel about our guys. Yesterday's game, win or lose, I mean, I was so -- I think I said this after the game. I was so honored to go through that game with our guys, because it was fun, through the ups and downs."
The game is scheduled for 7:38 p.m., and it will also be televised by FS1.
Both ALDS games can be live-streamed at MLB.TV.
     
Predictions
The Red Sox don't appear to have much going for them in this series except that they are returning to their beloved Fenway Park.
A year ago, they were in a similar position after losing the first two games in Cleveland and were promptly dispatched in Game 3.
The mismatch appears even bigger this time around because the Astros are hitting so well. However, the Red Sox have some pride and they have hit Peacock well in the past.
The Red Sox will find a way to survive and force a fourth game.
The Yankees should have won the second game, but they blew it, and now they are going with an inconsistent pitcher in Tanaka. 
That's not a good scenario against the relentless Indians. The Yankees will put up a good fight, but look for the Indians to find a way and end the series in three games.



Two of the most storied franchises in baseball won't have a chance to add to their trophy cases unless they put together a strong Game 3 in the American League Divisional Series on Sunday. 
The New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox both return home facing a 2-0 deficit to the Cleveland Indians and Houston Astros, respectively. 
Boston suffered a pair of 8-2 defeats down in Texas on Thursday and Friday, while the Yankees suffered heartbreak in Game 2 in Cleveland to fall into a deep hole against the defending American League champion.
     
Odds (via OddsShark) 
Astros (-130) at Red Sox (+120)
Indians (-108) at Yankees (-102)
     
TV Schedule
Houston Astros at Boston Red Sox (2:38 p.m. ET, Fox Sports 1)
Cleveland Indians at New York Yankees (7:38 p.m. ET, Fox Sports 1)
     
Astros at Red Sox
Jose Altuve was the star for the Astros in Game 1 and the entire top of the order shone in Game 2 on Friday. The early postseason success of the Houston bats means Doug Fister has quite the task on his hands to keep the Red Sox in the postseason. 
The 33-year-old righthander will be making his first postseason start since 2014, when he was a member of the Washington Nationals. In eight career postseason starts for the Nationals and Detroit Tigers, Fister is 4-2 with 2.60 ERA in 55 1/3 innings of work. In his last three playoff appearances, Fister has gone at least six innings and conceded no more than three earned runs. 

Not only will Boston need a strong outing from its starter, the top of its order has to attempt to match the production Houston is getting from its leadoff men. In Games 1 and 2, the top four batters in the Boston lineup went a combined 7-for-32. Cleanup hitter Mookie Betts has three hits in the series, and Hanley Ramirez, who replaced Eduardo Nunez in the two hole in Game 1, has two of those hits. 
In contrast, George Springer, Carlos Correa, Jose Altuve and Alex Bregman have set the tone for the Astros in the series. Altuve stole the spotlight in Game 1 with his three home runs, but Bregman also had a solid day as he went 2-for-4. 

Springer and Correa got in on the fun in Game 2 as the top four Astros hitters combined to go 7-for-16 with Bregman being the only member of the quartet not to record two or more hits. 
Astros Game 3 starter Brad Peacock earned some valuable experience at Fenway Park as he pitched against the Red Sox on September 28 and allowed two runs in five innings. 
With the way the stars in the Houston order are hitting the ball, it's hard to pick against them, but the Red Sox do have an experienced arm ready to shut them down. 
Prediction: Red Sox 3, Astros 2
     
Indians at Yankees
Carlos Carrasco appears to be the perfect man to shut the door on the Yankees and give the Indians some needed days off before the start of the ALCS. The 30-year-old posted an 11-2 record on the road in the regular season, and he only gave 31 earned runs in his 17 road starts. 
The righthander hurler also went 5-0 in September with a 1.48 ERA, which was a nice step forward after recording a 4.50 ERA in August with a 3-2 record. However, Carrasco has never made a postseason appearance.
Carrasco doesn't appear to be afraid of the magnitude of the moment as he voiced to Paul Hoynes of Cleveland.com:
 "You know what? I love to pitch everywhere - home, Yankee Stadium, other stadiums. This is the postseason. There's going to be a lot of people here. This is my first time in the postseason, but as I always say, it's the same baseball."
If the Yankees can take any positives away from the disastrous Game 2, it is their ability to tag Indians starting pitchers from the start and force Terry Francona to stretch his bullpen. New York chased Corey Kluber from Game 2 after putting up six earned runs on the Indians ace in 2 2/3 innings. 

Of the hitters third through seventh in the Yankees order for Game 2, only one failed to record multiple hits. That will do wonders for the confidence of Gary Sanchez and others as they return home to keep the season alive.
Yankees Game 3 starter Masahiro Tanaka pitched much better at home than on the road in 2017 with a 9-5 record and 3.22 ERA at Yankee Stadium. Tanaka's lone MLB postseason start came in the 2015 Wild Card Game, where he went five innings and gave up two earned runs on four hits. 
If Tanaka can start well and manage the game for five or six innings, the Yankees will be able to use their bullpen that thrived at home in the AL Wild Card Game to get them to the ALDS five days ago. 
Prediction: Yankees 5, Indians 3
      
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90.
All statistics obtained from MLB.com.



The Los Angeles Dodgers took a 2-0 lead in the National League Division Series on Saturday night with an 8-5 win over the Arizona Diamondbacks at Dodger Stadium that was fueled by contributions from across the order.
One day after Justin Turner, Corey Seager and Yasiel Puig combined for all nine RBI in Game 1, the Dodgers had seven different players record a hit and four drive in at least one run.
Puig was at the forefront of that group Saturday as he went 3-for-4 with two RBI, including a bases-loading single in the fourth inning that was accompanied by a trademark bat flip, as TBS documented on Twitter:
Did Puig just bat flip a single? 🤔 #NLDS #MLBonTBS https://t.co/40L2QLbyvu
That base knock set the tone for the fifth inning, when the Dodgers used four straight hits—including an RBI single from Puig, as shown by Fox Sports MLB—to plate four runs and take a 7-2 lead:
Yasiel Puig continues to crush it in the postseason. https://t.co/tI7nB2IaZj
Thanks to that outburst, the Dodgers were able to register seven unanswered runs after Diamondbacks first baseman Paul Goldschmidt opened the game with a towering two-run home run off Rich Hill in the first inning:
However, Hill settled down nicely and allowed just three hits while striking out four in four strong innings.
The Diamondbacks countered with Robbie Ray, and that figured to be trouble for L.A. since the southpaw went 3-0 with a 2.27 ERA against the Dodgers this year.
But on a night when he struggled with his command, Ray allowed four hits, four earned runs and four walks while striking out six over 4.1 innings.
ESPN Stats & Info and Dave Burns of Arizona Sports 98.7 put Ray's uncharacteristically shaky outing into perspective from a variety of angles:
Robbie Ray had allowed 2 earned runs in his last 3 starts against the Dodgers.

He allowed 4 in 4 1/3 IP tonight
Dbacks starters so far this postseason (wildcard included) 9 IP, 14 H, 12 ER. And that was considered their strength coming in to postseason
The Diamondbacks countered with a three-run blast from Brandon Drury to cut the deficit to 7-5 in the seventh inning, but Dodgers closer Kenley Jansen came in for the final five outs and silenced Arizona's bats.
Now one win away from clinching consecutive trips to the NLCS, the Dodgers will hand the ball to Yu Darvish in Game 3 Monday evening at Chase Field.
The Diamondbacks, seeking to keep their season alive, will turn back to Zack Greinke after he allowed four earned runs over 3.2 innings in Wednesday's 11-8 wild-card win over the Colorado Rockies.



Bryce Harper hit a game-tying two-run homer and Ryan Zimmerman smacked a go-ahead three-run bomb in the eighth inning, allowing the Washington Nationals to overcome a 3-1 deficit to defeat the Chicago Cubs 6-3 at Nationals Park. Washington's win tied the National League Division Series at one game apiece.
Anthony Rendon also homered for the Nationals, while Anthony Rizzo and Willson Contreras went yard for the Cubs.
Through the first 16 innings of the NLDS, the Nationals managed just one run and four hits. However, they broke their mini-slump in a big way against Cubs relievers Carl Edwards Jr. and Mike Montgomery in the eighth.
Pinch hitter Adam Lind led the frame off with a single. After a Trea Turner strikeout, Harper hit a no-doubt moonshot off a hanging curveball into the right field stands to tie the game at three:
The @Nationals needed a moment.

Enter @BHarper3407. #Crushed https://t.co/Qlc26NlQcj
Oliver Macklin of MLB.com provided the homer details:
Harper with an absolute missile to save the #Nats. 421 feet, 109.5 mph off the bat, per @statcast. Second deck. He's back? He's back. https://t.co/IChzVcoUfC
After a Rendon walk, southpaw Montgomery entered the game for Edwards. On a 1-1 pitch, Murphy laced a single into left field, giving the Nats runners on first and second with one out.
Following a called strike, Zimmerman delivered the game-deciding blow:
Zim for the Win!

@Nationals score 5 runs in the 8th to win Game 2. #NLDS #MLBonTBS https://t.co/lUTs4DwOXI
Zimmerman's shot was the game's fifth home run on a night when the wind was favorable for hitters. Prior to the contest, meteorologist Kevin Roth noted how strong the winds were blowing out to left-center:
⚾️👌 Gotta like those winds in DC at Nationals Park. Southerly at 15mph sustained, gusts 20mph, blowing out to left-center. #MLBPostseason https://t.co/gpyf8ObIH4
That note turned out to be prophetic, as both Zimmerman and Contreras' home runs to left-center seemed to get a little help from the wind.
Prior to the Nats' eighth-inning rally, the turning point through the first seven frames was Rizzo's home run in the top of the fourth.
With the matchup tied at one, Kris Bryant led off the frame with a double, bringing up Rizzo. On a 2-1 pitch, the Cubs first baseman smacked a Gio Gonzalez curveball to right field to give Chicago a 3-1 advantage:
COUNT IT! Anthony Rizzo LAUNCHES a 2-run homer giving the @Cubs the 3-1 lead. https://t.co/p5jAotKrGe
Upon further review, however, it looked as though a fan, who snared the ball with a one-handed grab, may have reached over the railing to bring the ball into the stands:
Cubs fan snags Rizzo's home run with one hand 👀

#NLDS https://t.co/q16qvpW8Lq
The play was reviewed for fan interference, but the call on the field stood.
Rizzo's home run was preceded by Contreras' aforementioned shot to left-center field in the second inning to knot the game at one apiece.
Contreras' ball seemingly hung forever before it found its way out of the park. Chris Emma of 670 The Score and CBS Chicago noted the baseball's lofty hang time:
Willson Contreras had no doubt that ball was gone, but it hung up there 6.9 seconds before landing in the bleachers. https://t.co/qyD6wP68wr
On the mound, Cubs starter Jon Lester bore down after allowing a first-inning home run to Rendon that kept carrying and cleared the right field fence. 
The Cubs veteran then retired 10 straight batters, wiggled out of a bases-loaded fifth-inning jam and sent the Nats down in order in the sixth. Lester finished the night by throwing six frames of one-run, two-hit ball.
However, the Cubs couldn't hold the lead, and Nats reliever Oliver Perez earned the victory. Sean Doolittle got the save after a double play ended the game. Edwards took the loss.
The Nationals and Cubs will play Game 3 of their best-of-five series in Chicago on Monday at 4 p.m. ET. Max Scherzer will take the hill for the Nats, while southpaw Jose Quintana is scheduled to start for the Cubs.
     
Get the best sports content from the web and social in the new B/R app. Get the app and get the game.   



New York Yankees closer Aroldis Chapman reportedly apologized to Joe Girardi on Saturday after his Instagram account liked a photo that called the manager an "imbecile" following the team's 9-8, 13-inning loss to the Cleveland Indians in Game 2 of an American League Division Series.
Citing a Yankees official, Newsday's Anthony Rieber said Chapman went into Girardi's office to apologize for the social media slip-up.
The official also told Rieber that Chapman was unaware he had liked the post, which can be seen below, courtesy of Sports Illustrated:
Aroldis Chapman liked an Instagram post calling Joe Girardi 'a complete imbecile' https://t.co/rHyGxHG1z6
"Aroldis let Joe know that's not the type of person or player or teammate he is," the official said, per Rieber.
In the bottom of the sixth inning Friday night, Indians pinch hitter Lonnie Chisenhall was at the plate with runners on second and third and two outs. The Yankees led 8-3.
On an 0-2 count, home plate umpire Dan Iassogna ruled a pitch by reliever Chad Green hit Chisenhall. However, on replay, it appeared as though the pitch deflected off the knob of Chisenhall's bat and into the glove of Yankees catcher Gary Sanchez, which should have meant an inning-ending strikeout.
Girardi opted not to challenge the play and later cited the effect it could have had on Green's rhythm, according to ESPN.com's Andrew Marchand. Two pitches after the controversial ruling, Francisco Lindor hit a grand slam to cut the Indians' deficit to 8-7.
On Saturday, Girardi acknowledged he made a mistake.
"I take responsibility for everything, and I feel horrible about it," he said, according to MLB.com's Bryan Hoch. "I screwed up. It's hard. It's a hard day for me. But I've got to move forward, and we'll be ready to go tomorrow."
The Yankees are in a 0-2 series hole and will attempt to save their season Sunday night in the Bronx.



New York Yankees manager Joe Girardi is taking responsibility for not challenging a controversial hit-by-pitch call against Cleveland Indians pinch hitter Lonnie Chisenhall during Friday's American League Division Series Game 2. 
"I take responsibility for everything, and I feel horrible about it," Girardi said on Saturday, via MLB.com's Bryan Hoch. "I screwed up. It's hard. It's a hard day for me. But I've got to move forward, and we'll be ready to go tomorrow."
The call came in the bottom of the sixth inning with Chisenhall down 0-2 in the count. Yankees reliever Chad Green threw a pitch that appeared to hit the knob of Chisenhall's bat and into the glove of catcher Gary Sanchez, which would have been a strikeout and ended the inning. 
Home plate umpire Dan Iassogna ruled Chisenhall was hit by the pitch, awarded him first base and loaded the bases for Cleveland. Francisco Lindor hit a grand slam two pitches later that cut New York's lead to 8-7. 
Girardi said after the game Friday he decided not to challenge the call because he didn't want to take Green out of his rhythm while the umpires took the time to review the play, via ESPN.com's Andrew Marchand.
The Indians tied the game in the eighth inning on Jay Bruce's solo home run and won it when Yan Gomes' single scored Austin Jackson in the 13th inning. 
Cleveland holds a 2-0 series advantage over the Yankees with Game 3 scheduled for Sunday at Yankee Stadium. 



After beating blazing-hot Stephen Strasburg in the first game of the National League Division Series, the Chicago Cubs will try to take a 2-0 lead at Nationals Park Saturday against the Washington Nationals.
Meanwhile, the Los Angeles Dodgers will attempt to take a 2-0 lead in their series with the Arizona Diamondbacks after securng a 9-5 victory Friday night at Dodger Stadium.
The Cubs will send left-hander Jon Lester to the mound, and while he was the ace of the staff during last year's championship run, he has been somewhat erratic this season. He had a 13-8 record along with a 4.33 earned-run average.
The Nationals will counter with their own lefty, Gio Gonzalez, who had a solid 15-9 record and a respectable 2.96 ERA. Washington would normally have gone with staff kingpin Max Scherzer in one of the first two games, but a hamstring issue has pushed him back until Game 3, which is scheduled for Monday at Wrigley Field.
The Cubs beat Strasburg and the Nats by a 3-0 margin in Game 1 as Kyle Hendricks was dominating in allowing just two hits in seven innings, and the Chicago bullpen closed out the final two innings. 
Kris Bryant had the go-ahead hit for the Cubs, and he knows they have an excellent chance to take charge in the series with a pair of road wins.
"We have to take advantage of the opportunity we have," Bryant said, per Stats TSX (h/t CBS Sports). "We are not always going to be this young. We are here for a reason. We want to win the whole thing."

Lester received powerful run support in five of his six September starts. The Cubs scored eight runs or more in those games, and 10 or more in three of them.
He responded with some solid performances but was also hit hard by the Atlanta Braves and Tampa Bay Rays.
The 33-year-old has not recorded a victory over the Nats since 2009, but he had a 2.84 ERA in 12.2 innings against them this season. Gonzalez was 0-1 against the Cubs this year, but he allowed just two hits and one run in six innings against them.

The Diamondbacks will send Robbie Ray to the mound to try to even the series against Los Angeles. He will be opposed by Rich Hill, who had a 12-8 mark this year with a 3.32 ERA but had great difficulties against the Diamondbacks. He was 0-3 against them with a 5.03 ERA in four starts during the regular season.
Ray was 15-5 with a 2.89 ERA this season, and he was excellent against the Dodgers with a 3-0 record and a 2.27 ERA.
Ray pitched 2.1 innings during Wednesday's wild card win over the Colorado Rockies, but Arizona manager Torey Lovullo believes he will be ready for a solid effort.
"I talked to him after his throwing program (Thursday)," Lovullo said Friday, per Stats TSX (h/t CBS Sports). "He said he felt fantastic. I had a conversation with him today, and he said he felt even better."
The Diamondbacks hit four home runs in their loss in Game 1, but the Dodgers took charge early with Justin Turner's three-run homer in the first inning. Arizona had to chase the rest of the game and was never able to catch up.
Both NLDS games can be live-streamed at MLB.TV.
                           
Predictions
There is little doubt the pressure on the Nationals is increasing as they prepare for Game 2. The Nats have never won a playoff series since moving to Washington, and their loss in Game 1 was a brutal one because Strasburg had been so hot.
Now it's up to Gonzalez to hold the fort against Lester. 
The key for the Nats is to find a way to get their offense going after being shut out in Game 1. Washington needs Bryce Harper, Daniel Murphy, Anthony Rendon and Jayson Werth to solve Lester.
Lester has a sharp postseason legacy, but he has been somewhat inconsistent this year. Look for the Nats to earn a close victory over the Cubs and square the series.
While the Dodgers got the jump in Game 1, the Diamondbacks have plenty of power, with Paul Goldschmidt and J.D. Martinez, and a history of success against Hill.
Arizona has been the better team recently, having beaten the Dodgers in six consecutive games prior to Friday night's defeat.
The Diamondbacks square the series with a convincing victory.



Fact: Justin Turner had five RBI last night, tying the Dodgers' postseason single-game record (Pedro Guerrero, 1981, and Davey Lopes, 1978).
Bleacher Report will be bringing sports fans the most interesting and engaging Cold Hard Facts of the day, presented by Coors Light.
Source: @statmuse



Washington Nationals assistant hitting coach Jacque Jones was suspended Friday for what the MLB club called a "pending legal matter."
A.J. Perez of USA Today obtained legal documents that show Jones and the Nationals organization were named in a revenge porn lawsuit that alleges the former outfielder distributed nude photos of an unnamed woman after their relationship ended.
Rory Pendergast, a member of the woman's legal team, told USA Today the Nationals were served with the lawsuit ahead of Friday's playoff game against the Chicago Cubs.
"(The) plaintiff is seeking justice for Coach Jones' intimidation and emotional abuse in connection with his distribution of private and intimate photos of plaintiff while on the job with the Washington Nationals," Pendergast said.
The lawsuit, filed in San Diego Superior Court, alleged Jones continued to share the photos with mutual friends as a way of "punishing" the woman.
Jones, who spent most of his decade in the major leagues with the Minnesota Twins, has not commented on the matter.
Meanwhile, Nats manager Dusty Baker talked about the decision to suspend the coach following the team's 3-0 loss to the Cubs.
"Yeah, that was kind of a downer," he told reporters. "He's a big part of the team. I don't know if that had anything to do with it, but it was a bit of a downer, and we hope that things subside and work themselves out."
The Nationals and Cubs are set to play Game 2 of the NLDS on Saturday at Nationals Park.
USA Today noted the court case is scheduled to begin March 9, 2018.



The first games of the National League Division Series on Friday gave us two different types of baseball games. 
The Chicago Cubs downed the Washington Nationals 3-0 behind lights-out pitching from Kyle Hendricks and some timely hitting in the late innings. 
Justin Turner and the Los Angeles Dodgers tagged the Arizona Diamondbacks for four runs in the first inning and continued to pile on to that advantage in a 9-5 win at Dodger Stadium. 
Both the Cubs and Dodgers have a good chance to extend their leads to two games ahead of the off day on Sunday, but there are a few trends that could point in favor of the Nationals and Diamondbacks as well.
TV Schedule
Chicago Cubs at Washington Nationals (5:38 p.m. ET, TBS)
Arizona Diamondbacks at Los Angeles Dodgers (9:08 p.m. ET, TBS)
         
Cubs at Nationals
Odds (via OddsShark): Cubs +103 (bet $100 to win $103), Nationals -113 (bet $113 to win $100)
The Cubs couldn't have asked for a better start to their title defense as they defeated the Nationals 3-0 on the road in Friday's Game 1. 
Kyle Hendricks was solid throughout his outing on the mound as he gave up two hits and struck out six in seven innings. 
The heart of the Cubs order came through in the sixth and eighth innings to provide the necessary advantage to secure an early lead in the series. Anthony Rizzo drove in a pair, while Kris Bryant earned the other Cubs RBI of the game. 

Joe Maddon's team will turn to Jon Lester for Game 2 to try to slam the door shut on the Nationals before a pitch is thrown at Wrigley Field. Both of the left-hander's starts against Washington in the regular season resulted in no-decisions. Lester has a 9-7 postseason record in his career, and he was 3-1 for the Cubs last season in October. 
Lester's opponent on the mound will be Gio Gonzalez, who hasn't earned a decision in four career postseason starts. Gonzalez hasn't been terrible in his time with the Nationals in the postseason, as he's conceded just eight earned runs in 18 ⅓ innings. That's hopefully a good sign for the Nationals as they try to level the series at one game apiece. 

The Nationals got a good outing from Stephen Strasburg in Game 1, but the offense was non-existent as it only got two hits off the Cubs pitching and only put two runners in scoring position. 
If the Nationals are able to find a way to get to Lester early, they may stand a chance in Game 2, but history suggests it might be a tough task pulling out a win against the experienced Lester. 
Prediction: Cubs 6-4
     
Diamondbacks at Dodgers
Odds (via OddsShark): Diamondbacks +126, Dodgers -137
The Dodgers didn't cruise to a Game 1 victory like the Cubs did on Friday night, but they were able to comfortably seal the win in the closing stages of the contest. 
Clayton Kershaw conceded four solo home runs to a Diamondbacks lineup that hit four triples in the NL Wild Card Game win over the Colorado Rockies. The lefty ace gave the Dodgers 6 ⅓ innings of solid work on the mound as he gave up one hit that wasn't a solo dinger. 
Rich Hill, who went 1-1 in the postseason for the Dodgers last year, gets the call for Game 2. In 14 home starts at Dodger Stadium in 2017, Hill went 7-5 with a 2.77 ERA. The southpaw also finished the regular season strong, as he went 3-2 in September while conceding six earned runs. 

The good news for the Diamondbacks is that unlike the Nationals, they produced some offense in a Game 1 defeat on Friday. However, they will need to string more hits together against Hill than they did against Kershaw. 
Robbie Ray will make his first career postseason start for the Diamondbacks in Game 2. Ray had an impeccable close to the regular season with a 6-0 mark in August and September in seven starts. 

One of the biggest keys for Ray will be containing Justin Turner, who erupted for five RBI in Game 1. Turner has a .208 average in 24 at-bats over the last five seasons against Ray. It's a small sample size, and the postseason can change any trend, but it's a positive sign at least for the Diamondbacks to have an attempt to recover in Game 2. 
Of the current Diamondbacks, J.D. Martinez, Jake Lamb and A.J. Pollock have all hit home runs off Hill, while Paul Goldschmidt holds a .300 average in his last 10 at-bats against the Dodgers Game 2 starter. 
Prediction: Dodgers 5-3
             
Follow Joe on Twitter, @JTansey90.
All statistics obtained from MLB.com.



Justin Turner knocked in five runs and Yasiel Puig drove in two more as the Los Angeles Dodgers defeated the Arizona Diamondbacks 9-5 in Game 1 of their National League Championship Series.
Per Scott Miller of Bleacher Report, Turner's five RBI tied a team postseason record:
Justin Turner's 5 RBI tonight ties LA #Dodgers record for a postseason game, equaling Pedro Guerrero 1981 World Series &amp; Davey Lopes 1978 WS
Turner's three-run homer sparked a four-run opening frame in which the first five Dodgers reached base safely. He added a run-scoring single in the fourth inning and another in the eighth.
Four Arizona Diamondbacks (A.J. Pollock, J.D. Martinez, Ketel Marte and Jeff Mathis) hit solo home runs off Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw, but he earned the win by going 6.1 innings and striking out seven.
The Dodgers chased Diamondbacks starter Taijuan Walker from the game after the first inning. After a Chris Taylor single and Corey Seager walk, Turner launched a 93 mph fastball 424 feet into the left-field stands to give Los Angeles a 3-0 lead:
OUTTA HERE! 

@redturn2 goes yard to give the @Dodgers a 3-0 lead. #NLDS #MLBonTBS https://t.co/VG59Sj9IKE
After a Cody Bellinger single, Yasiel Puig lined a double into center field to give Los Angeles a 4-0 advantage.
Zack Godley replaced Walker and cruised through two hitless innings before running into trouble in the fourth. Once there, Godley allowed two run-scoring singles and a Puig RBI groundout.
Kershaw navigated the first six innings with relative ease, allowing just three hits and two runs off homers from Pollock and Martinez.
However, he ran into trouble in the seventh and allowed back-to-back solo shots to Marte and Mathis on consecutive pitches, his 99th and 100th of the game:
Ketel Marte + @JMathSix combine for the 2nd set of back-to-back homers in #Dbacks #postseason history. https://t.co/Rpg9hDnlXY
Kershaw has struggled late in past postseason matchups, as ESPN Stats and Info noted:
Clayton Kershaw has a 25.50 ERA in the 7th inning or later of his postseason starts
He looked fatigued at the end of this outing, though, and Bill Plunkett of the Orange County Register also noted that it had been a few months since Kershaw threw this many pitches:
#Dodgers Clayton Kershaw has not thrown more than 97 pitches in a start since July 18 -- his last healthy start before lower back strain.
Los Angeles added a couple insurance runs in the eighth inning: A Corey Seager triple down the right-field line scored Austin Barnes, and Turner provided his fifth RBI of the game with a single.
Arizona scored its fifth and final run off a throwing error in the ninth, but closer Kenley Jansen snared a liner off leadoff hitter David Peralta to end the game.
The Dodgers and Diamondbacks are back at it Saturday night at 9 p.m. ET at Dodger Stadium for Game 2 of the best-of-five NLDS.
In a battle of left-handers, Rich Hill will take the mound for Los Angeles, while Robbie Ray will do the same for Arizona.



New York Yankees manager Joe Girardi said the decision not to challenge a controversial hit-by-pitch call against Cleveland Indians pinch-hitter Lonnie Chisenhall was the result of wanting to keep relief pitcher Chad Green in rhythm.
Speaking after Friday's 9-8 loss to the Indians in Game 2 of the American League Division Series, Girardi explained his reasoning for not challenging the sixth-inning call. 
"I think about the rhythm and never want to take a pitcher out of rhythm and have them stand over there to tell me he wasn't hit," Girardi said, via ESPN's Andrew Marchand.
Sports Illustrated captured an image from an Instagram post calling Girardi "a complete imbecile" that was liked by Yankees closer Aroldis Chapman:
Aroldis Chapman liked an Instagram post calling Joe Girardi 'a complete imbecile' https://t.co/rHyGxHG1z6
Chisenhall was down in the count 0-2 against Green with two on, two outs and the Yankees leading 8-3 when home plate umpire Dan Iassogna ruled Green's fastball hit the outfielder on the hand. 
Television replays appeared to show the ball hit the knob of Chisenhall's bat, which would have resulted in a foul ball and at least one more pitch in the at-bat. 
MLB.com's Mark Feinsand noted New York's replay coordinator told Girardi he couldn't get a conclusive look at the play, but "there was no reason not to roll the dice" and challenge the call anyway.
Girardi noted "there was nothing that told us that he was not hit by the pitch," and by the time the Yankees got a slow motion look at the play "it was too late" because teams only have 30 seconds after a play occurs to challenge the call. 
Two pitches after Chisenhall was awarded the base, Cleveland shortstop Francisco Lindor hit a grand slam off the right-field foul pole that narrowed the gap to 8-7. 
After a Jay Bruce homer in the eighth inning tied the score, Yan Gomes won it for the Indians with an RBI single off Dellin Betances in the bottom of the 13th. 
The win gives Cleveland a 2-0 advantage in the best-of-five series as the two teams head to New York for Game 3 at Yankee Stadium on Sunday. 



The New York Yankees entered Game 2 of the American League Division Series with a seemingly impossible task: Vanquish Cleveland Indians ace Corey Kluber.
The Yanks improbably succeeded, tagging Kluber for six earned runs in 2.2 innings. By comparison, the Klubot allowed four earned runs in the entire month of September.
Down 1-0 in the series and facing the presumed American League Cy Young Award winner, it was an inspiring showing by New York.
Then, "thanks" to the bullpen and the head-scratching machinations of manager Joe Girardi, it went to manure—and all but buried the Yankees' postseason hopes.
The second-guessing begins with Girardi's decision to pull starter CC Sabathia after 5.1 innings of admirable if imperfect work. The veteran lefty wobbled early but appeared to be in control after throwing just 77 pitches. Once he departed, the wheels came off.

Girardi summoned right-hander Chad Green, who threw two innings in the American League Wild Card Game on Tuesday and got up three times in the bullpen Friday before taking the hill. 
After retiring left fielder Austin Jackson on a fly ball, Green yielded a double to catcher Yan Gomes that put runners on second and third. 
Then, an 0-2 pitch to pinch-hitter Lonnie Chisenhall was ruled a hit-by-pitch. It appeared to hit the knob of Chisenhall's bat, per PitcherList.com's Twitter feed:
That hit the bat, yo. https://t.co/uxEjFNsZoy
Girardi, for some reason, opted not to challenge the call, despite catcher Gary Sanchez's obvious protestations.
The next batter, Indians shortstop Francisco Lindor, blasted a grand slam that made an 8-3 game 8-7. All the Yankees' hard work against Kluber was virtually erased. 
"There was nothing that told us that he was not hit on the pitch," Girardi told reporters after the game of his decision not to challenge the call. "By the time we got the super slo-mo, we were a minute—probably beyond a minute—it was way too late. They tell us we have 30 seconds. ... Being a [former] catcher, my thought is I never want to break a pitcher's rhythm. That's how I think about it."
"Think," here, is a generous term. Had Girardi challenged the call, chances are it would have been overturned and ruled a foul-tip strike three, inning over. 
Instead, the momentum shifted to the Indians, who tied the game 8-8 in the eighth on a Jay Bruce home run and won it in the 13th on a walk-off Gomes double down the third base line.
The defending AL champions celebrated an inspiring comeback. The Yankees slumped into the dugout after a dispiriting defeat. 

Some of the blame goes to New York's vaunted bullpen, which surrendered six hits and five earned runs. In addition to Green, David Robertson, Dellin Betances and Aroldis Chapman all looked mortal.
The stinkiest goat, however, is Girardi, who yanked his starter too soon, overworked and misused his relievers and failed to contest the game's linchpin play.
It was, as Joel Sherman of the New York Post put it, "A Stump Merrill inning. A Bucky Dent inning." If those references don't resonate, go ahead and Google 'em.
To make matters worse, Girardi got in front of a live microphone and offered an incoherent, bumbling "defense" of his puzzling inaction. Making a mistake is one thing. Failing to own it is salt in the wound.
Now, instead of vanquishing Cleveland's ace and heading back to the Bronx with the series knotted 1-1, the Yankees are on the brink of elimination.
Say what you will about this being a young team that should be happy to gain October experience. This is a missed opportunity, period. Girardi blew it, period.
And, barring a miracle of Ruthian proportions, New York is finished. Period.
          
All statistics and series information current as of Friday and courtesy of MLB.com.



The Chicago Cubs got their championship defense off to a winning start Friday, defeating the Washington Nationals 3-0 at Nationals Park in Game 1 of the National League Division Series.         
Anthony Rizzo powered the Cubs offense, going 2-for-4 with two RBI. Kris Bryant knocked in the only other run with Chicago's first hit of the game at the top of the sixth inning, driving in Javier Baez from second to break up what had been a classic pitchers' duel.
The magic lives on! 

Cubs take Game 1 on the road in 3-0 win over Nationals #NLDS https://t.co/Y6rQVo2z5r
Kyle Hendricks was cooly efficient for Chicago, allowing just two hits and three walks while striking out six in seven shutout innings. Stephen Strasburg was his mostly brilliant opposite, carrying a no-hit bid into the sixth before ending up the losing pitcher with two runs allowed and 10 strikeouts in seven innings.
Carl Edwards Jr. and Wade Davis, who earned the save, supplemented Hendricks' display, with neither allowing a baserunner. In a 2017 postseason so far defined by offensive outbursts, runs came at a premium, and it took two of the biggest heroes from the Cubs' 2016 World Series campaign to get the victory.
For the first half of the contest, a Nationals win felt all but inevitable because of their table-setter. Strasburg was dominant, mixing a heavy fastball, nifty changeup and a wipeout curveball that had batters' knees buckling on several occasions. 
Yahoo Sports' Jeff Passan noted the Nationals starter was getting his pitches to work on his first pass through the lineup:
First time through the Cubs' lineup for Strasburg: 

- 5 strikeouts
- 3 swinging
- 2 looking
- 1 on fastball
- 2 on change
- 2 on curve
The 29-year-old righty didn't let up for another couple of innings, sending the home crowd into a frenzy as he racked up strikeout after strikeout. MASNsports.com's Mark Zuckerman pointed out Strasburg didn't have to pitch long to set a franchise postseason record:
8 strikeouts for Strasburg is a new franchise postseason record. There's still only 1 out in the 5th.
Hendricks wasn't as electric, but he was nevertheless effective. He mixed his pitches well and dispatched the Nationals hitters with poise.
"That's why we call him Professor," Baez said of Hendricks after the game, via NBC Sports. "He knows what he's doing."                
670 AM's Matt Spiegel appreciated the right-hander's calm demeanor and his ability to keep the Nationals off balance despite not having overpowering stuff:
Watching Kyle Hendricks methodically toy with a lineup this good, then slowly walk to the dugout, is extremely aesthetically pleasing.
Hendricks' crafty pitching was enough to carry the game until his lineup could break through. Baez reached on an error by third baseman Anthony Rendon and then moved to second on a sacrifice bunt by Hendricks. With Strasburg's aura of invincibility wavering, the dynamic duo of "Bryzzo" made its mark.
Bryant drove in Baez with a single, reaching second on the throw:
No-hitter over. 
Shutout over. 

Kris Bryant comes through! #NLDS https://t.co/0FZ8WDN3Jb
Then Rizzo sent him across home plate with a single of his own.
The Cubs pointed out Bryant and Rizzo got justice after both struck out in each of their first two at-bats:
Y'all were saying something about Bryzzo earlier?

2-0 #Cubs in the 6th. https://t.co/bBuVceJwFL
The Cubs added another insurance run in the eighth inning thanks to Rizzo, who laced an opposite-field double to plate Jon Jay, who came into the game as a pinch-hitter. 
Bryce Harper and Michael Taylor were the only Nats to get hits in this contest (one apiece), and both came within the first two innings. The offense was nonexistent after that, per Passan:
The final 25 Washington Nationals hitters were 0 for 22 with three walks.
Game 1 was a demoralizing way to start the NLDS for manager Dusty Baker's team, as the Nationals have won the NL East title four times since 2012, including this season, but have yet to make it out of the first round of the playoffs.
The series stays in Washington, D.C., for Game 2 on Saturday for a battle of left-handers. The Nationals will try to bounce back with Gio Gonzalez, who went 15-9 with a 2.96 ERA but tapered off at the end of the regular season. On June 26, Gonzalez pitched six innings of one-run ball in his only start against the champs in 2017.
The Cubs will counter with Jon Lester, who is 13-8 this season with a 4.33 ERA but has a career 2.63 ERA in the postseason. In 12.2 innings against the Nats this year, Lester has given up nine hits and four earned runs.      



Yan Gomes delivered a walk-off single in the 13th inning to score Austin Jackson as the Cleveland Indians overcame an 8-3 deficit to defeat the New York Yankees 9-8 and take a 2-0 lead in their American League Division Series.
Jackson led off the 13th with a walk and then stole second base before Gomes pulled a Dellin Betances slider down the third-base line for the game-winner:
COMEBACK COMPLETE. 

#ALDS https://t.co/BywHGYZmcZ
A Francisco Lindor grand slam in the sixth inning and a Jay Bruce solo homer in the eighth erased a five-run Yankees advantage and knotted the game at eight before it headed into extras.
Gary Sanchez, Aaron Hicks and Greg Bird hit home runs for the Yankees.
The Yankees opened the scoring in the first inning with a two-run Sanchez blast:
.@ElGarySanchez puts the @Yankees up early in Game 2. #ALDS

Visit https://t.co/tmrbR6Aud6 for channel info. https://t.co/5hzG1iSjE5
The Indians responded in the bottom half with a two-run Carlos Santana single.
However, they lost veteran slugger Edwin Encarnacion on the ensuing play when he twisted his right ankle trying to slide back into second base following Bruce's line-drive out.
Encarnacion was doubled off to end the inning, but much more importantly, he suffered a sprain, per Jordan Bastian of MLB.com:
Indians announce that Edwin Encarnacion has a right ankle sprain and is being evaluated further.
Buster Olney of ESPN provided more insight behind the scenes:
Edwin Encarnacion was on crutches and in a walking boot as he left the Indians clubhouse, and got onto a cart. Had a suitcase and a backpack
Michael Brantley replaced Encarnacion as the Indians' designated hitter.
Cleveland plated one more run off Yankees starter CC Sabathia in the second inning, but the Yankees responded by scoring four in the third. 
First, Starlin Castro singled to score Sanchez to tie the game. Following Bird's single, Aaron Hicks then hit a homer to right field:
Give it a good, long look before it’s gone. Wow, @AaronHicks31. #ALDS https://t.co/TfFKCZFLRF
Hicks' three-run shot simultaneously gave the Yankees a 6-3 lead and chased Tribe ace and American League Cy Young candidate Corey Kluber from the game.
The 2014 Cy Young winner led all of Major League Baseball in wins, pitcher WAR, ERA, WHIP, complete games and shutouts, per Baseball Reference, but he allowed six earned runs and seven hits in 2.2 innings on this day.
To put how surprising Kluber's outing was in context, Olney provided this statistic:
Corey Kluber runs allowed by month '17
June: 8
July: 10 
August: 10
September: 6
October: 6
Ryan McCrystal of ESPN and Bleacher Report noted that Kluber's command was a culprit for his short stint:
Here are all of Kluber's 0-0 pitches today.. 47% first-pitch strike rate was his worst of the season. Clearly just didn't have command today https://t.co/ScF5kkWZn7
The Yankees continued their hot offensive start in the fifth inning as Bird hit a two-run blast off Mike Clevinger to give his team an 8-3 lead:
Greg Bird hits the @Yankees' 3rd homer of Game 2. #ALDS 

Visit https://t.co/tmrbR6Aud6 for channel info. https://t.co/KxnVYyRICd
 
In the sixth, Yankees reliever Chad Green replaced Sabathia with one out and a runner on first base. After a fly out and double, Lonnie Chisenhall fouled off six straight pitches against Green before being awarded first base after a hit-by-pitch.
However, upon further review, the ball may have ricocheted off the knob of Chisenhall's bat and into Sanchez's glove for an inning-ending strikeout. Sanchez protested, and the Yankees had the opportunity to challenge the call, but they chose not to do so.
Two pitches later, Lindor went yard:
Francisco Lindor gets the Indians back in it! https://t.co/zVPUZrXQZd
 
Mark Feinsand of MLB.com thinks Yankees manager Joe Girardi should have challenged the play:
Even if the Yankees' replay guy told Girardi he didn't have a conclusive view, there was no reason not to roll the dice &amp; challenge anyway.
Two innings later, Bruce hit the game's fifth home run, this time off reliever David Robertson, opposite field to tie the game at eight:
TIED!

How will this one end on #MLBNetwork? #ALDS https://t.co/6Hn00gO9WV
After two scoreless innings, Todd Frazier reached second base to lead off the top half of the 11th for the Yankees after third baseman Erik Gonzalez threw his ground ball into the camera well.
Utility infielder Ronald Torreyes pinch-ran for Frazier, but he was immediately picked off by Gomes. Mike Petriello of MLB.com noted how impressive Gomes' throw to second was via this stat:
That's a 1.88 sec pop time for Gomes, which would put it in the top 7% of all pop times to 2B this season. Real, real good.
Two innings later, Gomes officially became Cleveland's hero with his game-winning hit.
The two teams will now head to Yankee Stadium for Game 3 on Sunday at 7:30 p.m. ET. Cleveland can clinch the best-of-five series with a victory.
Carlos Carrasco, who won 18 games this season to tie for the major league lead, will start for the Tribe. Fresh off striking out 15 Toronto Blue Jays last Saturday, Masahiro Tanaka will take the hill for the Yankees.
An Indians win will clinch the best-of-five ALDS.


Steve Scalise ceremonial first pitch. Majority liberal fanbase puts politics aside, gives loud applause. Classy Nats fans, very classy. https://t.co/wbfQilbJ7L
On Friday, before Game 1 of the National League Division Series between the Chicago Cubs and Washington Nationals at Nationals Park, House Majority Whip Steve Scalise threw the ceremonial first pitch.
A shooter seriously wounded the Republican congressman in a June practice for the annual Congressional Baseball Game, and Scalise used forearm crutches to reach the mound and a walker to stabilize himself.
He tossed a pinpoint strike to U.S. Capitol police officer David Bailey, who also suffered injuries in the shooting, behind home plate.
Everyone involved cheered during the stirring sequence.
Sports and politics have intertwined with varying opinions. In this instance, we can all embrace the intersection.                 



Carlos Correa hit a two-run homer and two-run double and George Springer smacked an opposite-field solo shot as the Houston Astros beat the Boston Red Sox 8-2 on Friday afternoon at Minute Maid Park to take a 2-0 lead in the best-of-five American League Division Series.
Dallas Keuchel twirled 5.2 innings of one-run ball to earn the win for the Astros, while Red Sox starter Drew Pomeranz, who lasted just two-plus innings, took the loss.
Correa, Springer and Jose Altuve combined to go 6 for 11 with two home runs, six runs and six RBI. Their collective on-base percentage was .666 (10 for 15). 
Keuchel, who wiggled out of first- and second-inning jams, retired 13 straight batters during one stretch and struck out seven in the win.
His ability to induce soft contact, Keuchel's calling card, stymied the Red Sox all game. Red Sox Stats noted how proficient Keuchel was in this endeavor:
Red Sox hit one ball off Keuchel with a better than 50% chance of being a hit. Average exit velocity a ghastly 76 mph.
In the bottom of the first, Altuve singled with two out. Correa worked the count to two balls and two strikes, fouled off four straight pitches and then lined a high 91-mph fastball into the left-field stands to give Houston a 2-0 lead:
CRUSHED! CARLOS CORREA!

2-run homer, @astros take the 2-0 lead.  https://t.co/hAemHRaUHg
Brian McTaggart of MLB.com provided the homer details:
Correa got into one https://t.co/xC2ouQ9A29
Boston put runners on second and third with two out in the first inning but could not capitalize. In the following frame, the Red Sox had runners on second and first with one out, but Keuchel struck out Xander Bogaerts and Dustin Pedroia to escape after allowing just one run.
One inning later, Springer hit a 78-mph curveball on the outside part of the plate that floated just over the reach of outfielder Mookie Betts and into the stands:
SPRINGER DINGER! Another @astros home run.

3-1 over the Red Sox in the 3rd.  https://t.co/H8CcCnxXiU
Almost as impressive as Springer's home run was the one-handed catch made by a fan in the first row:
An @astros fan snags a #SpringerDinger with style. https://t.co/2t5q1gWx9h
Bregman then lined a double, and Altuve hit a first-pitch single to drive him home.
Altuve, the front-runner for the American League MVP, continued his torrid stretch by reaching base four times. The 5'6" second baseman, who hit three home runs in Game 1, has now made it safely in seven of nine ALDS plate appearances.
Peter Gammons posted this remarkable statistic regarding Altuve:
As Keuchel leaves with two out in the 6th, Red Sox cling to a 15-14 total bases load over Jose Altuve for the series
The Astros put the game away in the bottom of the sixth inning thanks to four more runs: one via a throwing error on outfielder Mookie Betts, two on Correa's double and one through an Evan Gattis RBI single.
Correa's double set a new team record, per ESPN Stats and Info:
Carlos Correa is the 1st player in Astros history with multiple 4+ RBI postseason games https://t.co/wlIeY7EHSJ
Boston's runs came on two Jackie Bradley Jr. RBI singles, one in the second inning and the other in the ninth.
Game 3 will take place on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. ET at Fenway Park in Boston. Doug Fister is slated to pitch for the Sox, while no starter has been announced for the Astros at this time.
Houston can clinch a berth in the American League Championship Series with a win.



The Cleveland Indians star Edwin Encarnacion suffered a sprained ankle against the New York Yankees in Game 2 of the American League Division Series on Friday, per Jordan Bastian of MLB.com.
Adam Kilgore of the Washington Post noted the designated hitter rolled his ankle at second base and the injury looked "real bad."
Encarnacion is one of Major League Baseball's top sluggers, and he was a key acquisition for the Tribe during the offseason.
In the midst of his first season in Cleveland, Encarnacion produced to the tune of a .377 on-base percentage with 38 home runs and 107 RBI during the regular season.
The 34-year-old veteran entered 2017 having hit at least 34 home runs and driven in at least 98 runs in each of the previous five campaigns, including a .263 batting average, 42 jacks and an American League-best 127 RBI in 2016 for the Toronto Blue Jays.
Encarnacion was part of one of the most fearsome power-hitting lineups in baseball during his time with the Jays, and he is currently the centerpiece of Cleveland's offensive attack.
While the Dominican Republic native doesn't have a history of significant injuries, he has dealt with his fair share of bumps and bruises in recent years.
Prior to appearing in 160 games last season, Encarnacion missed double-digit games in each of his first six full seasons in Toronto.
There is no replacing a hitter of Encarnacion's caliber; and Cleveland doesn't possess a ton of pop off the bench. If Encarnacion is forced to miss an extended period, Lonnie Chisenhall, Austin Jackson and Michael Brantley could all see some extra playing time during the postseason.
While that would put Cleveland at a significant disadvantage in comparison to its usual lineup, the Indians have a strong pitching staff that should at least keep them competitive in the meantime.



Major League Baseball has issued a fine to the Arizona Diamondbacks and coach Ariel Prieto after he wore an Apple Watch during Wednesday's 11-8 win over the Colorado Rockies in the National League Wild Card Game at Chase Field in Phoenix.      
The league issued a statement Friday saying it found no evidence Prieto used the watch to gain a competitive advantage but wearing it was a violation of on-field rules, via NBC Sports' Craig Calcaterra: 
"MLB found no evidence that Mr. Prieto used the Apple Watch or cellphone for any purpose in the dugout, nor any baseball-related communication on either device, during Wednesday's game. Despite these findings, Mr. Prieto violated MLB's on-field regulation by having this device in the dugout. As a result, Mr. Prieto and the D-backs have each been fined an undisclosed amount. The amount of the fines will in turn be donated by the Office of the Commissioner to hurricane relief efforts in Puerto Rico."
On Thursday, Joel Sherman of the New York Post reported MLB was beginning an investigation into a photo of Prieto wearing what appeared to be an electronic watch during the Wild Card Game.
The Diamondbacks issued a statement following the report, via MLB.com's Steve Gilbert:
"Ariel Prieto has assured us that this was a simple oversight and honest mistake. The watch he wore last night was absolutely not used in any way related to our game, and we will make certain prior to the NLDS that it will not be an issue again. Ariel takes full responsibility and feels terrible that this has been a distraction of any kind."
In September, the league fined the Boston Red Sox after it determined they used an Apple Watch to try to steal signs during a series against the New York Yankees.  
The D-backs hired Prieto as a coach and translator in 2015. The 47-year-old pitched six seasons in MLB with the Oakland Athletics and Tampa Bay Devil Rays from 1995-2001.


On This Day in 2012, Kobe Joined Elite NBA Club
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Buy or Sell Week 13 Fantasy Performances
Who Should Be the 2017 Heisman Finalists?
Which NFL Teams Are in the Playoff Hunt?
Which Fantasy Sleepers Should You Play?
NBA Handshake Fails
The Superstar QB Hoping to Follow in Watson's Footsteps
This Week's Best QBs and Defenses for Streaming
Is It Officially Panic Time in OKC?
5 Things UGA Needs to Do to Upset Auburn
Fantasy Outlook for Carr, Mariota and More
Viral HS Star Dominating 6th Season of Varsity
The Superstar RB Prospect Not Getting Enough Hype
The ‘Next Jimmer’ Is Getting Help from the Original
Which Fantasy Players Are Must-Adds?
Meet the RB Powering Wisconsin's Playoff Run
Buy or Sell Week 12 Fantasy Performances
Alabama Nearly Pulls Off 3-on-5 Miracle
Simmons Finally Faces 'Big Brother' LeBron
Fenway Park is where baseball's tradition meets its newest innovations, making it one of the unique game-day experiences that any baseball fan must enjoy.
Discover some of its most interesting facets in this video, part of the T-Mobile Deeper Coverage Stadium Tour.
        
Bleacher Report is your No. 1 stop for what's trending in sports. You can count on B/R for all the hottest stories. From wild sports to the next big thing, don't miss out.
Download the free Bleacher Report app to catch all the moments that matter in one place. Get the app to get the game.



The American League and National League divisional rounds are nearly both underway, and Friday provides the first chance to watch all four matchups in one day.
As with any playoff series, exceptional pitching is set to be on display, as arguably the game's top two pitchers in Clayton Kershaw of the Los Angeles Dodgers and Corey Kluber of the Cleveland Indians will take the hill. Yet, that has not seemed to matter at times this postseason. In the wild-card round, for instance, a starting foursome that included aces like Zack Greinke and Luis Severino combined to pitch just 7.1 innings.
How can you watch this full day of top-notch baseball? Check out the viewing schedule for Game 2s in the AL and Game 1s in the NL.
   
Boston Red Sox at Houston Astros
When: Friday, Oct. 6 at 2 p.m. ET
Television: FS1
Live Stream: Fox Sports Go
   
New York Yankees at Cleveland Indians
When: Friday, Oct. 6 at 5 p.m. ET
Television: MLB Network
Live Stream: MLB.tv
   
Chicago Cubs at Washington Nationals
When: Friday, Oct. 6 at 7:30 p.m. ET
Television: TBS
Live Stream: TBS Live, MLB.tv
   
Arizona Diamondbacks at Los Angeles Dodgers
When: Friday, Oct. 6 at 10:30 p.m. ET
Television: TBS
Live Stream: TBS Live, MLB.tv
    
Houston vs. Boston Preview
The Boston Red Sox threw their ace in Game 1, and it did not go well.
Chris Sale was tattooed for seven runs and nine hits in just five innings as the Houston Astros easily took the contest 8-2. The Red Sox will now turn to Drew Pomeranz to tie the series before it heads back to Boston.
Pomeranz turned in an excellent season, going 17-6 with a 3.32 ERA. He also threw his best against baseball's top teams, per the Red Sox Notes statistics profile:
Drew Pomeranz made 10 starts against teams that have qualified for the 2017 postseason: the Sox went 9-1 in those games (6-1, 2.62 ERA).
He will need to be just as stout on Friday against an Astros lineup littered with dangerous bats. Houston led MLB with 896 runs and a .282 team average in the regular season, and the offense is still rolling after battering Sale. 
Besides Thursday's hero Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa, Pomeranz does have a solid history against the Astros lineup, per Jake Kaplan of the Houston Chronicle:
How the Astros hitters have fared against Red Sox Game 2 starter Drew Pomeranz https://t.co/o6pCR1rEJL
This should make it a low-scoring affair, especially since Houston is throwing 2015 Cy Young winner Dallas Keuchel. 
The lefty was great again this season with a 14-5 mark and 2.90 ERA, but he has not faced this Boston lineup too often. Other than Rajai Davis and Mitch Moreland, both of whom are hitting below .100 lifetime, no Red Sox hitter has more than 10 career at-bats against Keuchel.
Such a tight pitching matchup makes this game a toss-up on paper, but Houston's dynamite offense and rowdy home crowd should give them a slight advantage. Look for the Astros to squeeze a run or two home to walk out with a narrow win.
    
Cleveland vs. New York Preview
If one thought the Red Sox were in trouble after Game 1, take a look at the New York Yankees' ominous position.
After using their bullpen for 8.2 innings in the wild-card round, the Yankees got just 3.1 frames out of starter Sonny Gray on Thursday. New York relievers still allowed just two hits and a run the rest of the night, but a dominant bullpen is being stretched out early.
It will be up to 37-year-old CC Sabathia to right the ship and give New York a quality outing. He has been the man for the job in 2017 after a Yankees loss, per Mike Mazzeo of the New York Daily News:
And so it comes down to this: CC Sabathia (9-0, 1.71 ERA following a Yankee loss) vs. Klubot
Sabathia has gone seven or more innings only three times this season, but New York should have Chad Green, Tommy Kahnle and David Robertson available again after their long wild-card stints. The Yankees should be set up to win on the hill, except for one major problem.
No pitcher was as dominant this season, especially in the AL, as Kluber. He went 18-4 on the year with a sparkling 2.25 ERA, which will likely win him the Cy Young. He has also been fantastic against the Yankees this season, posting a 2-0 record with three runs allowed in 17 innings. Lifetime, only Jacoby Ellsbury is hitting above .250 among the current Yankees.
With a rested bullpen and possibly the best pitcher in baseball, Cleveland should be favored here. This is truly an elite team that has already flexed its muscles in this series. Expect a 2-0 Indians lead going back to the Bronx.
    
Chicago vs. Washington Preview
After a slow start, the defending World Series champion Chicago Cubs got back on track to win the NL Central and enter October as a title contender.
After the All-Star break, Chicago led MLB with 423 runs and were second with a .273 team batting average. Kris Bryant, 29 homers and 73 RBI, and Anthony Rizzo, 32 homers and 109 RBI, returned to form again in 2017, as Chicago had six players smack at least 20 dingers for the year.
The Cubs will need that offense going against a red-hot Stephen Strasburg, who finished the year with a 15-4 record and 2.52 ERA. He ended his season on an absolute tear over five starts, per the Washington Nationals team Twitter account:
Stephen Strasburg allowed only 3 ER in all of September.

Now he's @MLB's NL Pitcher of the Month. https://t.co/oJ0csQf83p https://t.co/ue9Q1hHLM6
With Trea Turner coming back from injury, this is the best Nationals team ever on paper, especially with Ryan Zimmerman going off for 36 homers and 108 RBI on the year. This makes them the favorite for the series and Game 1.
Strasburg should perform very well if he continues his recent play, and that will be the key to this game. Washington ranked a lowly 23rd in MLB with a bullpen ERA of 4.41, so this will be the weakness for Chicago to exploit.
Against any other Washington starter besides Max Scherzer, this would give the Cubs a pretty solid chance to pull out a win. However, expect Strasburg, who was 7-2 at home this season, to lead the Nationals to an early series lead.
    
Arizona vs. Los Angeles Preview
Another year, another example of Kershaw's otherworldly talents.
After putting up an 18-4 record and 2.31 ERA in 2017, Kershaw continued to lower his career numbers, per MLB.com's Jordan Bastian:
For 9th year in a row, Kershaw has lowered his career ERA:

4.26
3.36
3.17
2.88
2.79
2.60
2.48
2.43
2.37
2.36

I never want this to end.
There is no question Kershaw is likely the top pitcher of his generation, but his postseason numbers have not matched his regular-season dominance. He sports 4.55 ERA in 14 career starts, and he is coming off of a shaky 2016 playoff run in which he allowed 12 runs in 24.1 innings despite his excessive use.
He will start another chance to possibly pitch in a World Series on Friday against an Arizona team that has given him some trouble. In seven starts over the last three years prior to 2017, Kershaw allowed 19 runs in 42 innings against the Diamondbacks. Yet, he bounced back this season with a ridiculous 0.59 ERA against Arizona in two starts.
He has handled Arizona star Paul Goldschmidt pretty well over the years. Goldschmidt is hitting just .227 in 44 at-bats, including 17 strikeouts. The Diamondbacks are going to need some offense in Game 1 to help out starter Taijuan Walker against a loaded Los Angeles Dodgers lineup that has routinely batted players like Yasiel Puig seventh or eighth.
Puig, by the way, hit 28 homers this season. 
Picking against Kershaw is never a smart bet, and as long he even closely resembles his typical self, the Dodgers should be able to generate enough runs to get the Game 1 win.
Statistics are courtesy of MLB.com unless otherwise noted.



The telemarketers won't stop calling.
Ryan Westmoreland swears this isn’t normal. Spring is the slow season at In the Zone Baseball Club, and his dad, Ron, owns the batting cage. Ryan gives lessons on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays. The phone usually doesn't ring this much, but for whatever reason, this Monday in September is the day these telemarketers chose to flood the office with calls. It's a change in days that often blur together, Ryan notes. He springs toward the phone every time it rings.
"Hello, this is Ryan," he says before hanging up the phone without another word.
Westmoreland sits behind the counter organizing the cage's schedule as his dog, Pedey (named after Boston Red Sox second baseman Dustin Pedroia), falls asleep amid a scattering of tennis balls. He spends a lot of his time here now, splitting half the profits with his dad. The air conditioner purrs in the otherwise quiet facility. The walls are painted Fenway green, with a tarp draped over the far north wall decorated as the Green Monster.

There's a lot of time to kill, especially when the New England weather still permits players to train outside. Sometimes, Westmoreland stares at the jerseys that hang over the Pop-A-Shot in the waiting area. There are three of them. One is a Red Sox jersey, facing forward—his favorite team growing up in Portsmouth, Rhode Island. The team that believed in his potential as an 18-year-old. The second is an American League Single-A All-Star jersey, from 2009, a reminder of the greatness that once landed him at No. 21 on Baseball America's list of top prospects just one season into his pro career. The third is a second Red Sox jersey, turned backward. His name and the number 25 are on the back, the future superstardom that never came.
"It's nice to look at sometimes," Westmoreland says.

He stares at an Excel spreadsheet for much of the day. It's organized by age group, teams and lesson instructor. Above two used Fenway Park seats (given to him as a gift by the Red Sox), between two of his Lowell Spinners jerseys, lies a small, rounded, brown wood frame with a quote from Jason McLeod, the former Red Sox scouting director who pushed the team to select Westmoreland in 2008 and who now works for the defending world champion Chicago Cubs.
"Ryan Westmoreland was the most talented player I've ever drafted," the quote reads. "He would have been Boston's lefthanded Mike Trout. A New England kid. It was a great story. He was a racehorse, 6-foot-3, strong, and as fast as can be. Raw power. Great defender. He could have been Boston's center fielder for 15 years."

He still dreams about that first home run in pro baseball. Sometimes, Westmoreland will be in bed, and as his eyes close, he'll be right back at LeLacheur Park as the Spinners public address announcer calls his name. He's watched the YouTube video so many times that it's become imprinted in his 27-year-old mind. It had been a long time since his last home run, 15 games into the start of his professional career in 2009. He was anxious to get it out of the way.
The first pitch from Tri-City ValleyCats pitcher Justin Harper was a slider up and away.
He still remembers his thought process clearly. He's going to throw a fastball in so he doesn't fall behind in the count, Westmoreland thought.
"I knew it was coming," Westmoreland says.
It came, and he smoked it. The pitch went soaring over the right-field wall. There was a sense of relief, that things were finally going the way they were supposed to. As he rounded the bases, Westmoreland heard his mom. You can hear it in the YouTube clip too. It's the high-pitched shriek Westmoreland still hears in his sleep. He's greeted by his teammates.
He gets lost in that memory, sometimes.
"Can you bring up the video on YouTube?" Westmoreland asks. "I want to make sure I remembered it correctly."
As the clip plays on an iPhone, Ryan stares intensely. Sometimes, he says, he'll see his players crowd around and watch it together. Many of them are too young to know his resume, that he agreed to a $2 million signing bonus to forgo a scholarship at Vanderbilt. How Boston buzzed about having a local star to man center field for the next decade.
In 60 games in 2009, his first season in pro ball with the Lowell Spinners, Westmoreland hit .296/.401/.484 with seven homers, 35 RBI and 19 stolen bases. His professional debut threw a mountain of coal into the hype train. At 19, he was already the Red Sox's best prospect, on the fast track to success, and one scout went as far as to compare him to Mickey Mantle.

But Westmoreland realized something was wrong at spring training, the start of his second professional season. He was playing Call of Duty on his Xbox when he felt his thumb grow numb. He wrote it off as nothing. He was a professional athlete in very good shape. He was the hometown kid whose dreams of hitting walk-off homers at Fenway Park grew more tangible by the day. It didn't hit him that this was different from a strained hamstring or torn labrum until the next day.
While stretching on the field, he felt his entire right side go numb, like it had fallen asleep. Team doctors told him to get an MRI immediately.
Doctors pointed at the big golf ball-sized blob on the scan: a cavernous malformation, they told him, a life-threatening congenital irregularity that made him susceptible to brain bleeding. If left untreated, he could've been blinded, paralyzed or killed. He decided immediately to have the surgery, March 16, 2010, a date now tattooed on his right bicep.
"I'll be fine," Westmoreland said to himself. "I've already come back from injuries before."
On the iPhone screen, Harper throws the first pitch. He'd remembered correctly, Westmoreland notes. Slider up and away, and then fastball inside for the homer. He hears his mom's shriek, making sure to point it out. The clip ends as Westmoreland is walking back to the dugout, high-fiving teammates. I turn toward him, and a single tear drips down his left cheek. That side of his face became partially paralyzed after the surgery, and his eye involuntarily wells up multiple times a day as a result. The image is no less striking.
A photo posted by Ryan Westmoreland (@rwesty25)
Normal things became hard after the surgery. Tying shoes took nearly two minutes. He could no longer touch a stove because the numbness in his hand could leave his hand toasted without his feeling a thing. He struggled to walk. Balance was the real issue, especially with his right foot. Westmoreland limps today. When his right foot touches the ground, he doesn't feel the weight of the floor under his feet, making each step a balancing attack and a hobble.
The second surgery turned things for the worse. He'd fought all the way back the first time. He was hitting pitches in the cage again. Things were looking bright again, like Westmoreland could fulfill the potential that everyone knew he had. He even played in a Red Sox Dominican instructional league game in December 2011. But two years after the first surgery, in July 2012, doctors found a second cavernous malformation, bleeding. He needed a second surgery.
He woke up from the anesthesia deaf in his right ear, blind in his left eye. He knew he needed to retire, and he did officially in March 2013.
"I can't play anymore," Westmoreland told himself. "I can't try to do this anymore."
It's safe to say I miss this. http://t.co/gpbLqDuyYM
After the second surgery, he shut himself off from the rest of the world. For two months, he sat in his parents' basement eating chips and candy. He passed the days with TV, therapy and sleep. He fell in love with the show Friday Night Lights, and his favorite character became Jason Street, the paraplegic former quarterback whose in-game spine injury took away a scholarship at Notre Dame and a chance for a football career. He refused to turn on a baseball game, even his beloved Red Sox. Seeing then-Red Sox manager Bobby Valentine, an abject disaster in Boston, wear his No. 25 infuriated him.
"I really didn't want to be like, 'That could be me,' or 'I'm better than him,'" Westmoreland says.
Everything he'd been working toward for years disappeared. He was 22 years old, and the future everyone told him he'd have was already gone. He'd ask himself questions: Why is this happening to me? What did I do to deserve this? He thought about endings things himself.
"Part of me just wanted to be done with it," Westmoreland says. "I didn't think I could handle it anymore, and I really didn't think I could."
A photo posted by Ryan Westmoreland (@rwesty25)
He's patient with his players. At one point, one of the high schoolers Westmoreland coaches gets off balance and hits a ball off the end of the bat, way out in front of the soft-toss pitch. From behind the net, Westmoreland whispers something to the batter and tests his balance. He tosses another pitch, and THWACK, the ball zips to the opposite end of the cage.
He slowly brought himself back to the game. Three months after shutting out the world, he began to drift back. Things started to change when he saw his friends make the majors. First came guys like Will Middlebrooks and Daniel Nava. And then Jackie Bradley, Xander Bogaerts and Mookie Betts. Westmoreland wanted to support his old teammates, so he flipped on NESN to see his friends' successes.
"I loved the Red Sox, and I love those guys," Westmoreland says. "I couldn't not watch them."

A year and a half after the surgery, he decided he wanted to coach and began to work at In the Zone. He set sights on a career in the front office, something he doesn't feel quite ready to pursue. Maybe five or so more years, Westmoreland says.
"There's a part of the front office that needs a guy who knows baseball, who isn't maybe, obviously, as smart as the Harvard, Cornell, Yale, Dartmouth guys, but has a different side of knowing how players are doing and feeling," Westmoreland says. "The front office should always have a spot that is dedicated for someone who has played and knows the game."
In June 2015, Westmoreland returned to Fenway with his dad as an honored guest of the Red Sox. In front of a sold-out crowd, Westmoreland had the opportunity to throw out the first pitch. Instead, he opted to have his dad throw it out because he didn't feel comfortable. But as the pitch zipped past home plate and the Boston crowd roared, Westmoreland couldn't help but take it all in.
"I had always wanted that in a different instance, like jogging out to center field," Westmoreland says. "It wasn't that, but to be there, and get the ovation I got with the players that knew me, it was really exciting. They all knew who I was. They knew my story."
A photo posted by Ryan Westmoreland (@rwesty25)
The one thing the surgery never took away was his swing. Doctors told him his swing was so ingrained in his muscle memory that any physical limitations—walking, tying his shoes—didn't extend to the plate. It's still a thing of beauty. Quick, powerful and fluid.
On this Saturday, Westmoreland takes some swings off the tee. He does this from time to time, sometimes facing the pitching machine, maxing out at 80 mph. The parents and students in the cage stop what they're doing and watch Westmoreland swing. Even four years after retirement, Westmoreland catches everyone's eye.
He still dreams about what his pro baseball career could've been. All the time. He watches the Red Sox on TV, sees Jackie and Mookie on the field and thinks, "Well, that could be me." He knows there's nothing he could do to change things. He lives a regular life now, living with his girlfriend and taking classes while working at the cage. He gets MRIs every six months to check up on himself. He loves coaching the kids too, getting excited every time his players get a scholarship offer. He appreciates everything the surgery gave him, the new outlook he received on life.
A photo posted by Ryan Westmoreland (@rwesty25)
"It's easy to look back and go, 'God, that sucked. That was just the worst,'" Westmoreland says. "I obviously lived through it. Maybe if I had not gone through it, I don't have as good of appreciation for the little things that a lot of people take for granted. Right now, everything I think about how hard used to be with me, tying my shoes and how that used to take 10 minutes. Maybe if I had not gone through it and been in the big leagues for 10 years, I would not have had as great an appreciation for those things."
He thinks he would've been good. Real good, and a lot of people do. He could hit to all fields. He could hit balls on the outer half of the plate. At the old In the Zone location in Fall River, Westmoreland's uniform hung in a mural next to other Red Sox legends. Josh Beckett. Jerry Remy. David Ortiz. Carl Yastrzemski. Two years ago, when the Westmorelands opened the new location of the batting cage, the mural didn't make the trip.
Doctors told him the paralysis in his face and the numbness on his right side could disappear one day, but Westmoreland isn't counting on it. At this point, any positive developments are just icing on top. 

Westmoreland wraps up on the tee, and we pick up the balls together. It still feels good, that sensation, the crack of the bat hitting a baseball. He can still hit 80 mph off the pitching machine, but he usually limits himself to the tee. As we lug the bucket out of the cage, a player's father who's been watching the swings comes up to Westmoreland. 
"Ryan, it looks like you could still crank one over the center field wall at Fenway," he says. 
Westmoreland laughs. He turns around and responds. 
"And then I woke up." 



For as high as some teams might feel during the postseason, it's also important to note how low they can get, too.
Many Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees fans will be experiencing the lows after yesterday's game 1 of the ALDS, where both teams were beat down by their opposition. The Red Sox fell to the Houston Astros 8-2, while the Yankees were shutout by the Cleveland Indians, 4-0.
Red Sox pitcher Chris Sale, who had an incredible debut season for the Red Sox, struggled. And that's putting it lightly. 
Tonight marked Chris Sale's 181st career start. It's the 2nd time he's allowed 6 extra-base hits (July 8, 2016 vs Braves). https://t.co/Q4CuBMIGKh
Despite striking out six batters, Sale only survived five innings, giving up seven runs on nine hits. He finished with an abysmal 12.60 ERA in Game 1. As for the Yankees, a shutout loss is never a good way to start a series, especially against the Cleveland Indians.
The Indians held the Yankees to three hits over nine innings, never allowing New York to gain any type of momentum. But while Game 1 didn't give Boston and New York anything to cheer about, there is always Game 2 to look forward to. 
         
ALDS Game 2 Schedule 
Boston Red Sox at Houston Astros (Astros lead 1-0): FS1, 2:00 p.m., ET 
New York Yankees at Cleveland Indians (Indians lead 1-0): MLB Network, 5:00 p.m., ET

Tonight, the Astros will rely on the left arm of Dallas Keuchel to stifle Boston's offense again. Keuchel, who posted a 2.00 ERA over the final three games of the regular season, will look to erase his previous performances against the Red Sox with an impressive outing on the mound this afternoon.
In three career appearances (two starts) against Boston, Keuchel has a 9.88 ERA—not exactly something for Houston fans to get excited about. And to make matters worse for the Astros, the Red Sox are sending Drew Pomeranz to the mound, who held the Astros to one run in six innings on September 30.
One thing Pomeranz can do that Sale and the rest of Boston's bullpen in Game 1 couldn't is to not pitch to Astros second baseman Jose Altuve.
If Red Sox scouting report told pitchers to throw Altuve pitches right down the middle of the plate, they are executing the plan perfectly
On Thursday, Altuve lit up the Red Sox with his bat, hitting three home runs in a single game. If that's not MVP material, I don't know what is.
Altuve's power gave the Astros the lift they needed in Game 1, and he'll look to replicate that success at the plate for the rest of the series—or until Boston just chooses to intentionally walk him. 
The Yankees, who have some firepower on offense of their own, are hoping their MVP candidate Aaron Judge can have even half of the performance Altuve had on Thursday when his Yankees team takes on the Indians. After being shutout in Game 1, the Yankees are looking for answers from somewhere on offense.
Judge struck out four times swinging in Game 1, leaving three players on base. That's not how big time players should play in October.
If Aaron Judge doesn't get another at-bat, he'll be the 4th Yankee to go 0-4 with 4 K in the playoffs (Damon 2009, Mantle '53, Bonham '41). https://t.co/KMpzNkeDIH
For the Yankees to crawl back into this series, they'll need Judge to start putting the ball into play or into the stands. Now is not the time for him to continue striking out. 
Looking to keep Judge at bay will be Corey Kluber, who led the majors in ERA during the regular season (2.25 ERA).
After scoring eight runs in Game 1, the Indians will look to keep their bats hot when they take on CC Sabathia. 
The Indians drafted and made Sabathia a star in the MLB. Now, it's his time to shine once again on the mound in Cleveland—this time, however, wearing Yankees pinstripes.
         
Stats courtesy of Baseball-Reference.com.



The Chicago Cubs went 108 years between World Series titles. Can they get another one without a season in between?
That's the question surrounding the franchise as it begins the National League Division Series against the Washington Nationals. 
A year ago, the Cubs were coming off a sensational regular season (103-58) and were overwhelming favorites to win the World Series. While they were victorious, they were put to the test in all three rounds by the San Francisco Giants, Los Angeles Dodgers or Cleveland Indians.
Joe Maddon's team didn't have the same regular-season success this year (92-70), and while they want to bring home a second consecutive title, they face far less pressure than the Nationals or the Los Angeles Dodgers.
The Nats have never won a playoff series since moving to Washington (0-3 in divisional series), while the Dodgers finished the season with the best record (104-58) and have heavy expectations of winning their first World Series since 1988.
Stephen Strasburg will get Game 1 start for @Nationals in #NLDS. #MLB https://t.co/WWCKcsVhZR https://t.co/yLxe5GHnDe
The Cubs are sending Kyle Hendricks to the mound for Game 1, and he will be opposed by Washington fireballer Stephen Strasburg.
Hendricks was slowed by injuries much of the season, and he finished the regular season with a 7-5 record along with a 3.03 ERA. He is 2-2 with a 2.67 ERA in five starts against Washington and was sharp at the end of the season, and he is thrilled to have a chance to start the series. 
"This is what you live for," Hendricks said, per Stats TSX (h/t CBSSports.com). "This is the time of year that you want to be playing, and we're ready for it."
Strasburg was 15-4 with a 2.52 ERA this season, and he has a 2.08 career ERA in five starts against the Cubs. Strasburg says there is no pressure on the Nationals. "This isn't pressure," per Stats TSX. "This is a game. You know, there's a lot of people that deal with a lot harsher things in their life that is legitimate pressure."
The Cubs are depending on sluggers Anthony Rizzo (32 home runs), Kyle Schwarber (30), Kris Bryant (29) and Javier Baez (24) to ignite the offense. 
Ryan Zimmerman led the way for the Nationals with 36 home runs, and he was followed by Bryce Harper with 29, Anthony Rendon with 25 and Daniel Murphy with 23.
      
Friday National League Division Series Matchups
NLDS Game 1: Cubs at Nationals, 7:31 p.m. ET, TBSNLDS Game 1: Diamondbacks at Dodgers, 10:31 p.m. ET, TBS
Both NLDS games can be live-streamed at MLB.TV.

The Dodgers will send ace Clayton Kershaw to the mound, and he is coming off an 18-4 regular season with a 2.31 ERA. L.A. seemingly has an advantage since the Diamondbacks are starting Taijuan Walker (9-9, 3.49 ERA). 
Kershaw has been one of the game's best pitchers for years, but he has had some problems in the postseason. He has as much to offer as any pitcher in the big leagues, but his 4-7 record and a 4.55 ERA in the playoffs is difficult to explain. 
It seems logical Kershaw should be able to dominate in the postseason the way he does in the regular season, and it may take one outstanding game to turn that around. 
"I know what to expect, I guess, which is always a good thing," Kershaw said, per Stats TSX (h/t CBSSports.com). "But other than that, I think every situation is different and every year is a little bit unique as far as who we face and how our team sizes up."
The biggest issue for the Dodgers is the late-season slump that struck them toward the end of August. After threatening the all-time winning percentage through the first three-quarters of the season, the Dodgers lost a shocking 16 of 17 games during a span in August and September.
They were swept twice in three-game series by the Diamondbacks, and the wild-card team should have a head of steam as the series gets underway.
CRUSHED.

Paul Goldschmidt puts the DBacks on the board first #WildCard https://t.co/H8x11JPu0V
The Diamondbacks are led by sluggers Paul Goldschmidt (36 regular-season homers), J.D. Martinez (45) and Jake Lamb (30). Goldschmidt added a three-run blast in the wild-card win over the Colorado Rockies Tuesday.
Cody Bellinger had 39 home runs to lead the Dodgers, and six of his teammates hit 20 home runs or more. When the Dodgers are in gear, they can bash the ball with regularity.
However, the late-season slump and the pressure of having the best record in baseball could prove problematic.



World Series dreams are alive and well for eight MLB teams following the two Wild Card Games, but the rest of the league already has its attention on the upcoming offseason.
The offseason means player movement, as squads look for the next marquee free agent to ensure they will be the ones playing in October in 2018 and the years to come. While the hot stove is only simmering at this point with plenty of rumors to come down the line, there are already some notable names being thrown around.
With that in mind, here is a look at the latest buzz surrounding Eric Hosmer, Zack Cozart and Japanese closer Yoshihisa Hirano.
                
Royals Interested in Keeping Hosmer

Hosmer has been a Kansas City Royal his entire career and developed into a fan favorite, and Jon Heyman of FanRag Sports reported "all signs suggest" the only team he has ever known will attempt to re-sign him "even if it won't be easy."
Heyman noted Kansas City is "willing to make a serious offer (presumably $100 million plus)" but acknowledged big-market teams such as the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox will make their pushes as well.
It is no mystery why the American League East teams or others would want the 27-year-old. The 2016 All-Star slashed .318/.385/.498 with 25 home runs and 94 RBI this season, and the power numbers continued a pattern from last year when he set career-highs with 25 long balls and 104 RBI.
While Hosmer represents a steady presence in the lineup, he is also a notable fielder, considering he is a three-time Gold Glove first baseman.
He used his formidable bat and glove to help the Royals reach the World Series in 2014 and win it in 2015. The Red Sox and Yankees make sense as potential destinations given Hosmer's postseason prowess, which was particularly clear in 2014 when he slashed .351/.439/.544 with two home runs in 15 games.
Still, Heyman's report made it clear Hosmer is a priority in this critical offseason for the Royals, as Lorenzo Cain and Mike Moustakas are also set to be free agents.
Prediction: Hosmer has been a Royals centerpiece his entire career, and they will make sure it stays that way with their offer. He remains with Kansas City.
               
Nationals Could Eye Cozart

Cozart is one of the more interesting case studies this offseason because he is coming off an impressive season, but he's on the wrong side of 30 years old and failed to generate significant interest as a trade piece in 2017.
Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe noted the Cincinnati Reds "had trouble trading him at the deadline" and may not make Cozart a qualifying offer at $18.2 million. "If not, the Nationals have shown interest in him in the past, and they may want to move Trea Turner to center," Cafardo wrote.
From the Reds' perspective, Zach Buchanan of the Cincinnati Enquirer wrote in August the qualifying offer would represent 150 percent more money than Cozart has made in his career. That, as well as the suggestion a lackluster trade market could mean a lackluster free agency market, indicates there isn't much "to dissuade Cozart from accepting the qualifying offer."
However, Jose Peraza is the shortstop of the future for the Reds at just 23 years old. This is a rebuilding club that hasn't been to the playoffs since 2013 and is coming off a third straight season with less than 70 wins. Cozart is 32 and figures to be past his prime when Cincinnati is ready to compete, even though he reached his first All-Star Game this past season.
He slashed .297/.385/.548 with 24 home runs and 63 RBI and has been a steady presence at shortstop his entire career as well, tallying positive defensive runs saved above average every season, per FanGraphs.
His head-turning 19 runs saved from 2014 dropped to just two this year, but he is still a reliable option with a proven track record.
Prediction: The Nationals are in the middle of a win-now window as they prepare for this year's playoffs and will look to bolster their offense with the addition of the veteran Cozart. The Reds will give Peraza playing time and experience in 2018 and elect not to extend Cozart the qualifying offer. He will be on Washington in 2018.
                
Cardinals Looking to Japan for Bullpen Help

The St. Louis Cardinals missed the playoffs for the second year in a row after a stretch of five straight appearances and figure to make a number of changes this offseason to revamp the club.
Along those lines, Derrick Goold of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported they are interested in Hirano, who played for Orix and is "free of any bonus limits or posting fee" as an international free agent.
Goold noted the Cardinals have previously scouted Hirano, who could step in at the back of the bullpen after it was revealed in August Trevor Rosenthal needed Tommy John surgery.
The St. Louis bullpen finished a middling 16th in the league in batting average against this season, per ESPN.com, and the question marks extend beyond Rosenthal's absence. According to Goold, pitching coach Derek Lilliquist and bullpen coach Blaise Ilsley will not return in 2018 as the Cardinals "veer toward a more modern approach to starter usage and bullpen deployment."
What's more, Juan Nicasio—whom they acquired from the Philadelphia Phillies in September—is set for free agency after posting a 1.64 ERA and 1.00 WHIP in nine games for the Cardinals.
The Cardinals need to solidify the bullpen, and Hirano would help them do just that after two impressive seasons. According to Baseball-Reference, he finished with a 2.56 ERA in 2017 and 1.92 ERA in 2016 and has also toned down his home runs allowed, which plagued him early in his career. He allowed 12 in 2006, 18 in 2007 and 14 in 2009 but just five this year and two last year.
Prediction: St. Louis is eyeing an improved bullpen as it chases the Chicago Cubs in the National League Central in 2018, and Hirano would be an ideal addition. It will sign him as he shifts his career to the United States.

