
It wasn’t immediately clear—contextually at least—why LaVar Ball chose to renew his feud with President Donald Trump on Thursday evening.
Context is often a relative term with Ball, of course. It’s a pretty pointless exercise trying to predict what the Big Baller Brand patriarch will do next, outside of assuming that it will be done at full volume.
LaVar Ball sits with his son LaMelo at Staples Center, Los Angeles, August 13. Ball reignited his feud with President Donald Trump on Thursday evening.   Sean M. Haffey/BIG3/Getty
Ball became a self-parody on Thursday in Philadelphia as the Lakers beat the 76ers on a three-pointer from Brandon Ingram. But the momentous win turned out to be more about LaVar than anyone else.
Fans at Wells Fargo Center glimpsed LaVar in his suite before the final buzzer, and  obviously LaVar riled them up and loved the whole thing. Then he met Joel Embiid and talked about how LaVar Ball is a genius. There was some other stuff too, better watched in this NBC video than typed out. To reduce LaVar to words on a page feels a bit like pouring water over an irritating yet entertaining fireworks display.
 
&quot;LaVar Ball is a genius.&quot; - LaVar Ball pic.twitter.com/VPcyrfdt6B
 

Ball was also busy on Twitter, pinning a gif to his page showing him dunking over a cartoon Trump, with the hashtags, "#thetrumpdunk" and "#stayinyolane."
 
#thetrumpdunk #stayinyolane @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/MEjGptbiuS
 

As  CNN pointed out, the wording goes back to an interview Ball gave to Chris Cuomo in November, after his middle son LiAngelo had been released from detention in China for shoplifting.
Trump, who spoke with Chinese President Xi Jinping about the release of LiAngelo and two of his UCLA teammates, demanded that they thank him. LaVar took umbrage at Trump; Trump called LaVar an “ungrateful fool” and “a poor man’s version of Don King, but without the hair” on  Twitter.
"If you help, you shouldn't have to say anything," LaVar  told Cuomo. "Let him [Trump] do his political affairs and let me handle my son, and let's just stay in our lane."
It was all so painful to watch and read about, and now LaVar has ignited it all again, albeit with a pretty sweet piece of internet artwork. Because there’s no way Trump won’t respond, surely. Get ready for more completely unnecessary noise.



The black comedy I, Tonya, about the onetime champion figure skater Tonya Harding, is the cinematic definition of “You don’t know whether to laugh or cry.” The screenwriter, Steven Rogers, hopes “you’ll do a little of both.” And maybe both at once, sometimes through gritted teeth. The film, which doesn’t whitewash Harding, attempts a kind of redemption. At the very least, it gives you perspective: Tonya Harding never had a chance.
She is best remembered, of course, for figure skating’s most riveting tabloid moment: The kneecapping of Harding’s chief rival, Nancy Kerrigan. The media did such a good job of reducing Harding vs. Kerrigan to White Trash vs. Princess that many continue to misremember Harding as the assailant. The story, as often happens, is more layered than the headlines.
U.S. figure skaters Tonya Harding, left, and Nancy Kerrigan avoid each other during a training session February 17, 1994 in Hamar, Norway, during the Winter Olympics.   VINCENT AMALVY/AFP/Getty Images
Rogers, who grew up in Harding’s home state of Washington, spent weeks interviewing the former athlete (banished from the sport for life in 1994) and her ex-husband, Jeff Gillooly. It was Gillooly’s delusional best friend, Shawn Eckhardt—Harding’s purported bodyguard and a self-described CIA operative—who hatched the cracked plan to prevent Kerrigan from competing at the 1994 Olympics. (She recovered in time to win a silver medal.)
The story is so nutty that Margot Robbie, the Australian actress who plays Harding, couldn’t believe it was true. “Margot was too young when it happened,” says Rogers, “and she kept complimenting me on my brilliant comic inventions, like Shane Stant [the attacker, a mook hired by Eckhardt] using his head to break a glass door to escape, rather the police baton he’d just bashed Nancy with. I had to reluctantly tell her it wasn’t my imagination.”
Tonya Harding and Margot Robbie attend NEON and 30WEST Present the Los Angeles Premiere of 'I, Tonya' Supported By Svedka on December 5, 2017 in Los Angeles, California.   Vivien Killilea/Getty Images for NEON
The real Harding was, briefly, the greatest female skater in the world, the only one who could pull off a triple axel (at one competition, she completed two), a talent never properly celebrated. She had a few things going against her, including her preferred performance soundtrack (rock music), her big-haired ’80s tackiness and a take-me-or-leave-me attitude that the snooty National Ice Skating Association loathed. Harding was admirably tough and ambitious, if judged by today’s standards. But she wasn’t strong enough to overcome, among other things, Gillooly, a violent and colossally inept man whose name became synonymous with kneecapping.
And then there was Harding’s working-class mother, LaVona Golden, who pushed her daughter by any means necessary. Rogers was unable to locate Golden. (Harding told him she didn’t know if her mother was alive or dead—“She might be living behind a porn shop in a trailer.”) But plenty of people witnessed her verbal and physical abuse of her daughter, including beating the young Harding with a hairbrush at a skating event. “The only thing Jeff and Tonya agreed on, and they agreed on nothing, was how bad LaVona was,” says Rogers.
He got the distinctive flavor of Golden from documentary footage, but he wrote the part for Allison Janney. “I’d written for her before, and she never got to play the parts. It was this not-very-funny joke between us,” says Rogers, who studied acting with Janney at New York’s Neighborhood Playhouse in the ’80s. “So I attached her to the role even before she read the script or agreed to do it. Her involvement was a condition of sale.” Simply put, he adds, “no one plays a mess as well as Allison.”
The film goes back and forth between recreations of documentary footage and Harding’s rise and fall as a skater. One of the “documentary” scenes features an older Golden, hooked up to an oxygen tank, an ear-nipping parakeet on her left shoulder. It’s a showstopper, though the bird, played by Little Man, nearly steals the scene from Janney. “Hands down, my favorite animal co-star ever, and I’ve had a few,” says the actress. “This bird did a lot for me.”
As did the breathtakingly ugly wig. “When I first saw myself in the mirror as LaVona, I thought, This is fantastic!” says Janney. “It’s the least I’ve ever looked like me, which was very freeing. Normally, I’m not a fan of watching myself; I get very picky, groaning over my nibbles and bits.”
After years of collecting Emmys (six) for her TV work—as The West Wing’s commanding and elegant C.J. Cregg, as a sexually adventurous housewife on Masters of Sex and as the domineering mother on the CBS sitcom Mom—the dearth of great Janney film roles is perplexing. “Shoehorn parts, like the director of the CIA or FBI,” is how Rogers describes what’s she’s generally offered. “But Allison is Viola Davis and Cate Blanchett. She’s got that kind of power. I wrote this part so there was no denying that.”
Rogers knew Janney would love the story because, as a teen, she was  a competitive figure skater. An accident put an end to that (she went through a plate glass window, severing arteries), but she remains a fan of the sport and vividly remembers watching a clearly distressed Harding skate at the 1992 Olympics.
“When Tonya’s lace broke, and then going up and crying to the judges—I just watched with my hands over my eyes,” says Janney. “I was mortified for this girl who was obviously implicated and guilty in some way. And, of course, the whole media thing of poor Nancy Kerrigan and ‘Why, why, why?!’ playing over and over. That press narrative was made for TV.”
TONYA HARDING OF THE UNITED STATES SHOWS HER BROKEN SKATE LACE TO THE JUDGES DURING THE WOMENS's FIGURE SKATING FREE PROGRAM AT THE 1994 LILLEHAMMER WINTER OLYMPICS.   Clive Brunskill/ALLSPORT/GETTY
In one of I, Tonya’s later scenes, Gillooly notices the reporters, who had been camped on his lawn for months, racing for their trucks. You glimpse the reason on his TV: footage of a white Bronco on a freeway, being chased by cops. “And right after O.J. was the Menendez brothers trial,” says Janney. “The triumvirate of the 24-hour news cycle.”
The film, directed by Craig Gillespie (Lars and the Real Girl), is a deft blend of satire and morality tale. Everyone is culpable, some more than others. (Bobby Cannavale represents the media in a scathingly funny turn as a Hard Copy reporter.) But Rogers’s script makes no attempt to answer the question of Harding’s involvement in the attack (she denies even knowing about it). Rather, says Janney, the film is about “seeing the complexities of what went on, and what environment Tonya grew up in. You get why she would find herself with this cast of characters.”
Young LaVona Golden makes her debut to Cliff Richard’s “Devil Woman” (Gillespie’s soundtrack of ’80s and ’90s radio hits is killer). She walks onto the ice in her street shoes, dragging 3-year-old Tonya by the arm, a cigarillo attached to her hand like a sixth finger. “Hey!” she shouts to the female instructor teaching a herd of young skaters. “Over here! I’ve got something I want to ask you.” There is no seduction with Golden. “I did wonder how I was going to get behind her,” says Janney with a laugh.
Golden was a challenge to humanize, this woman who relentlessly bullied her daughter and everyone else. The actress dug up some compassion from her own past. “LaVona talks about driving Tonya to practices at 5 a.m. and working all these waitressing jobs, with every penny going to her skating. I know what that’s like, because my parents did it for me. It’s a lot for a single parent.”
Janney goes on: “I think she saw her daughter had a hard road. Tonya didn’t have all the things that are seen to be necessary for a viable competitor for the U.S. In order to give her daughter a chance, she needed to be tough on her. And not to defend LaVona,” she adds, “but she didn’t think it should matter what music Tonya played. It only mattered that she was a great skater.”
Harding (right) practicing in 1994, as her mother, LaVona Golden, looks on. It was their first contact after years of estrangement.   Craig Strong/Getty Images
A devastating scene near the end of the film captures the heartbreaking dysfunction. Mother and daughter have been estranged for years, but Golden visits Harding at one of her lowest moments, when she’s trapped in her home by a mob of reporters and cameramen. “LaVona puts herself in this awkward place of being a nice mother,” Janney says with a chuckle. “She has to express things she normally wouldn’t—soft, fuzzy feelings like: I’m proud of you, and you did good.”
Janney thinks Golden really felt those things, somewhere. But in the end, she betrays Harding once again. (Sorry, no spoilers.)
“She has a line, when she’s yelling at Tonya, ‘I hated my mother too, you know!’” says the actress, who thinks Golden was probably abused herself. Since Rogers couldn’t find her, that’s speculation. But watching documentary footage of Golden, says Janney, “I saw all her anger and bitterness about everything in her life.”
Rogers’s favorite line in the script never made it to the film. “LaVona says, ‘Tonya always said that growing up, everyone hit her. Well, it was just a natural reaction to being around her.’” Rogers laughs. “I kept badgering Craig to find a place for it.”
Never mind. Janney lobs plenty of choice zingers, including one of the best in the film: The older Golden—noticing that the film’s plot is shifting to the years when Harding stopped speaking to her mother—says to the camera, “My storyline is disappearing. What the fuck?!”
Janney relished that line. “I’ve wanted to say that in so many movies that I’ve been in.”
(L-R) Sebastian Stan, Craig Gillespie, Allison Janney, Steven Rogers, Bryan Unkeless, Tonya Harding, Ricky Russert and Margot Robbie attend NEON and 30WEST Present the Los Angeles Premiere of 'I, Tonya' Supported By Svedka on December 5, 2017 in Los Angeles, California.   Vivien Killilea/Getty Image


Despite declining television ratings and assorted controversies—concussions, anthem protests, Deflategate, Tom Brady’s weird diet—the National Football League remains a moneymaking juggernaut.
In March 2017, the NFL was projecting revenue for this year of $14 billion, according to  Sports Business Journal. (The final figures for 2017 haven’t been released yet). Goodell wants to make $25 billion by 2027. “Well, don’t we all?”  Sports Illustrated commented pithily in August 2016. “The difference is that a) Goodell said this out loud; and b) he may actually do it.” NFL ratings are down by around three million viewers per game from 2013 and 2014, Brian Goff of  Forbes reported in August. But that doesn’t seem to be affecting the league’s bottom line. Despite an attempted insurrection by Cowboys owner Jerry Jones, Goodell just signed a $200 million contract extension—recognition from NFL owners, at least, that their product remains a success story.
The gleaming lacquer of truckloads of profit can help conceal potential cracks in the NFL’s business model, though. Take this weekend’s game between the Buffalo Bills and the Indianapolis Colts at New Era Field, for example.  Newyorkupstate.com reported on Wednesday that tickets were selling for $4.
Four dollars. Granted the Colts are a woeful team in 2017, lacking the one player in Andrew Luck that casual, non-partisan football fans might be interested in turning up to watch live. Granted, too, that the Bills are hardly the worst offenders for live gates in the NFL.  ESPN says an average of 68,629 people have attended games at New Era Field this season, which is 93.9 percent of capacity. Good for 17th in the NFL. Not bad, not great—kind of like the Bills as a team.
Buffalo Bills head coach Sean McDermott at New Era Field in Orchard Park, New York, December 3. Tickets for the Bills against the Colts are going for $4.   Brett Carlsen/Getty
They are still very much in the AFC playoff race, though, at 6-6. The Bills only need eminently plausible screw-ups from the Chiefs and Chargers to sneak in as a Wild Card team. That should be generating excitement. Instead, that same  Newyorkupstate article notes that tickets for Week 15 against the Dolphins are going for $15.
The Bills’ experiment with games in Toronto was a difficult one, sure. But if upstate New York can’t get excited about a playoff contender, then maybe the NFL should follow the dollar signs and shift the franchise 55 miles or so north to a Canadian metropolis. It hasn’t worked out too badly for the Raptors or the Blue Jays, after all.


Add a few more unexpected pages to the knotted, never-less-than-captivating story of Hope Solo’s professional soccer career. 
Solo, the former U.S. Women’s National Team (USWNT) goalkeeper, announced on her Facebook page on Friday morning that she will run for President of U.S. Soccer.
Solo wrote: “What we have lost in America is belief in our system, in our coaches, in our talent pool, and in the governance of US Soccer. We now must refocus our goals and come together as a soccer community to bring about the changes we desire.”
She continued to spell out a four-point manifesto including a “Push for Equal Pay” for the USWNT and, “all women in the USSF [United States Soccer Federation] workplace”.

The 36-year-old’s entry marks another intriguing moment in an election race being contested between perceived U.S. Soccer insiders and renegade candidates. Sunil Gulati, the incumbent, faces a challenge to his 12-year presidency from current U.S. Soccer Executive Vice-President Carlos Cordeiro, Boston-based lawyer Steven H. Gans, and Fox Sports analyst and former U.S. Men's National Team (USMNT) striker Eric Wynalda.
Solo, though, may have the greatest potential to shake up the outcome of February’s election.
After a college career with the Washington Huskies she won 202 caps for the USWNT from 2000 to 2016. But her career was rarely as simple as her appearance record and longevity made out.
“For more than a decade, she loomed menacingly between the posts, a muscular, hyper-focused, lightning-quick goalkeeper who seemed able to stop anything. But in the end, the one thing Hope Solo couldn’t stop was herself”, Jonathan Mahler wrote in the  New York Times in August 2016, after Solo had been suspended by U.S. Soccer for six months for calling the Sweden team that knocked the USWNT out of the Rio Olympics a “bunch of cowards.”
Former U.S.W.N.T. goalkeeper Hope Solo in Chicago, Illinois, July 9 2016. The 36-year-old wants to be President of U.S. Soccer.   Jonathan Daniel/Getty
That apparently spelled the end of the Richland, Washington native’s international career—one marked, as the  NYT noted, by feuds with teammates and governing bodies as well as by fabulous competitiveness and athleticism.
Off the field, Solo was arrested on domestic violence charges in June 2014. The charges were subsequently dropped then reinstated, and the case is apparently still open, Deadspin reports. She also accused the former Fifa president of inappropriate behavior, telling a Portuguese magazine in November that she "had Sepp Blatter grab my ass” at an awards presentation in 2013. Blatter denies the accusation. 
Now, perhaps, comes the most extraordinary chapter of all. U.S. Soccer’s  enfant terrible wants to become its most crucial power-broker. And if the history of Solo’s career is anything to go by, she may yet succeed.


LiAngelo and LaMelo Ball may yet join their older brother Lonzo in the NBA. It just won’t be by the traditional route.
LaVar, the boys’ father, told  ESPN on Thursday that LiAngelo and LaMelo will move abroad, forgoing the chance to play college basketball. LiAngelo withdrew from UCLA earlier this week without having played a regular season game for the Bruins.
"I don't care about the money," LaVar said. "I want them to go somewhere where they will play them together on the court at the same time. The priority is for the boys to play on the same team."
The 19-year-old LiAngelo became embroiled in a diplomatic flashpoint in November when he admitted shoplifting in Hangzhou, China—an incident that resulted in the intervention of President Donald Trump. Trump’s disputed role in getting LiAngelo and two teammates released back to the U.S. led to a Twitter row with the equally pugnacious LaVar.
LiAngelo was suspended indefinitely by UCLA, but that punishment now appears irrelevant after he left the school.
LiAngelo and LaMelo have agreed a deal to be represented by Harrison Gaines, who is also Lonzo’s agent. LaVar said there were a “few teams interested” overseas in signing the boys. His original plan was for LaMelo, 16, to follow LiAngelo and Lonzo to UCLA. 
LaVar Ball, father of basketball players LiAngelo and LaMelo, in Hong Kong, November 14. Ball's two youngest sons won't be following Lonzo's career path to the NBA.   Anthony Wallace/AFP/Getty
LaVar’s plan sounds typically grandiose but it is also fraught with potential embarrassment. A  Yahoo Sports  article Wednesday revealed that a representative of the Ball family had approached Lietkabelis of the Lithuanian Basketball League about signing up LiAngelo. Arturs Stalbergs, the Lietkabelis coach, tweeted, “We have an opening at the security staff since they have an experience in this field.” (The tweet has since been deleted).
LaMelo is generally considered more talented, and a better NBA prospect, than LiAngelo. Neither brother, though, will be treading Lonzo’s route from the Bruins to the draft to the NBA.
It’s just the latest chapter in the wild ride that is following the fortunes of the Ball family.


Third in the NFC North, probably needing to win out and with a bunch of teams to jump over even if they do that, the playoffs look a long way off right now for the Green Bay Packers.
But when you’ve got No 12 on your team, there’s always a chance.
Aaron Rodgers, the NFL’s best quarterback—including Tom Brady—broke his collarbone against the Vikings on October 15. The Packers put the two-time M.V.P. on injured reserve, ensuring he can’t return before Week 15 against the Panthers.
In Rodgers’s absence, Mike McCarthy’s team has lost four of its past six games with Brett Hundley under center. An overtime win over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Lambeau Field on Sunday probably kept Green Bay’s dim playoff hopes alive.
Rodgers practised again for the first time on Wednesday, and received glowing reviews from Hundley and his Pro Bowl wide receiver Jordy Nelson.
"He throws the ball unlike any I've ever seen," Hundley told  ESPN. "Still slinging it."
Nelson was even more succinct. "He looks like himself," Nelson said.
Nelson and the Packers’ other top wideouts have struggled with Hundley throwing to them. The 24-year-old U.C.L.A. product threw 22 times against the Buccaneers for 13 completions and zero touchdowns. The Packers relied on a bruising ground game instead, with Jamaal Williams rushing 21 times for 113 yards.
Davante Adams was alone among the Packers’ receiving corps in prospering against Tampa Bay, catching four passes for 42 yards. But despite his relative success with Hundley, Adams has given the pithiest explanation in a long time for Rodgers’s brilliance.
Writing in  The Players’ Tribune on Wednesday, Adams tells a story from his rookie season in 2014. It starts off in a pretty standard way—“The adjustment from college to the NFL was no joke," Adams writes. "Everything’s just a lot  more in the NFL—more physical, more fast, more strong.”—but then goes on to describe the brutal mental process that constitutes learning your trade as a receiver under Rodgers.
“It was Oct. 2, 2014, my fifth game as a Packer," he writes. "We were playing the Vikings at Lambeau. Aaron called a play, and I knew—man, I just  knew—that I wasn’t getting the ball.”    
Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers at Soldier Field, Chicago, Illinois, November 12. Rodgers can return in Week 15 against the Panthers.   Stacy Revere/Getty
The play broke down, and Rodgers cycled through his progressions and looked for Adams. Being a rookie, Adams hadn’t run his route properly.
“After the play, Aaron looked over at our offensive coordinator and pointed at me,” Adams recalls. “He made a yanking motion with his arm—like,  Take this dude off the field. I spent the next eight plays on the sidelines.”
It’s this kind of ruthlessness that makes Rodgers a future Hall of Famer. The Packers can’t get him back soon enough.


Canadian telecoms company Rogers Communications Inc is considering selling the Toronto Blue Jays Major League Baseball team in an effort to generate cash that could be used in its core business, the company’s chief financial officer said.
The Blue Jays were ranked by Forbes as the 16th-most valuable MLB team this year out of 30, worth $1.3 billion.
Rogers should be able to sell it for about that sum, said Andrew Zimbalist, a sports economist with Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts, who noted the team is in a large, wealthy city with a strong fan base.
The Blue Jays were founded in 1977 and became back-to-back World Series champions in 1992 and 1993.
Rogers, which operates cable TV and telecom services in Canada, bought 80 percent of the Blue Jays in 2000 and the remaining 20 percent in 2004, as part of a strategy to obtain broadcasting rights for what is Canada’s only remaining MLB team.
The company, which has about $13 billion in outstanding debt, now figures it could make more sense to sell the team and license broadcast rights from a new owner, Rogers CFO Tony Staffieri told a UBS investor conference in New York on Tuesday.
“We can get the exclusive content through renting it,” Staffieri said, according to a transcript from the event, adding that the company would “like to get the content without necessarily having the capital tied up on our balance sheet” but that no deal is imminent.
A bird sits among the first base photo well at Yankee Stadium while the New York Yankees take on the Toronto Blue Jays in the Bronx, New York City, September 29. The Blue Jays, Canada's only MLB franchise, could be up for sale.   Abbie Parr/Getty
He pointed to a C$5.2 billion ($4.1 billion) 12-year deal that Rogers signed in 2013 to broadcast National Hockey League games, elbowing out rival BCE Inc for rights to Canada’s most popular sport.
A spokeswoman for Rogers, Sarah Schmidt, said on Wednesday that the company “would like to surface value and get credit” for its “terrific sports assets.”
Staffieri did not say if Rogers is considering divesting a stake in the more popular Maple Leafs National Hockey League franchise that it obtained alongside BCE in 2011 for a combined C$1.32 billion.The league in September approved the $1.2 billion sale of the Miami Marlins, according to Forbes. A record $2 billion was paid for the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2012.
Rogers Communications, which is controlled by Canada’s prominent Rogers family, is also looking to sell a C$1.5 billion ($1.2 billion) stake in Cogeco Inc and its subsidiary, a cable TV company with operations across the United States and Canada.


Dallas quarterback Dak Prescott shook off a first-half hand injury as he and running back Alfred Morris powered the Cowboys to a 38-14 victory over the Washington Redskins at AT&T Stadium on Thursday.
Prescott passed for 102 yards and two touchdowns, including a 13-yard scoring pass to Dez Bryant early in the fourth quarter that gave Dallas a 17-point advantage.
Morris rushed for 126 yards and a touchdown, all but 38 yards coming in the second half.
He successfully moved the chains for Dallas (6-6), which had lacked a consistent running game since Ezekiel Elliott began serving a six-game suspension for violating the NFL’s personal-conduct policy four games ago.
Washington quarterback Kirk Cousins completed 26-of-37 passes for 251 yards and two touchdowns. However, he was intercepted twice and fumbled once, part of the Redskins (5-7) losing the turnover battle, 4-0.
Morris ran one yard for a touchdown with 4:55 left in the fourth quarter, sealing the win for Dallas. Cowboys running back Rod Smith added a one-yard scoring run with 2:37 left.
Prescott went to the locker room during the second quarter to have a hand injury examined, but he returned to the game by the end of the first half.
The Cowboys scored the game’s first 17 points and held a 17-7 lead at halftime.
The Dallas defense and special teams created a pair of turnovers in the first quarter, but the Cowboys’ offense failed to take advantage of either one.
The Cowboys finally gained their initial first down on the final play of the first quarter. Prescott scrambled away from pressure and then ran 13 yards to convert a third-and-five from the Dallas 46.
Prescott then capped the 11-play, 59-yard scoring march when he hit tight end Jason Witten with an eight-yard touchdown pass to put Dallas 7-0 up with 10:43 left in the second quarter.
Alfred Morris of the Dallas Cowboys at AT&T Stadium, Arlington, November 30. Morris ran for over 100 yards in Ezekiel Elliott's absence on Thursday Night Football.   Wesley Hitt/Getty
Dallas eventually converted a turnover into points when DeMarcus Lawrence sacked Cousins, separating the Washington quarterback from the ball. Maliek Collins recovered for the Cowboys at the Redskins 19-yard line.
Dallas’ third takeaway of the first half set up a Dan Bailey field goal from 24 yards that put the Cowboys ahead 10-0.
Ryan Switzer put the exclamation point on an eventful first half for the Dallas special teams units when he returned a punt 83 yards for a score.
Switzer’s touchdown put the Cowboys in front 17-0 with 3:46 left in the second quarter.
Washington answered before halftime as Cousins led a nine-play, 75-yard touchdown drive. Cousins hit wide receiver Ryan Grant with a 20-yard pass for the score with just over a minute remaining before halftime.


Updated | The United States embassy in London conducted a Twitter Question and Answer session with Ambassador Woody Johnson on Tuesday, inviting users to send in queries to be answered via Periscope.
As is sometimes—nay often—the way of these things when major institutions canvass Twitter with innocent intentions, it didn’t end well.
#AskWoody coincided with President Donald Trump retweeting posts from Britain First, the far-right anti-Muslim organization, provoking worldwide outrage. And that became the focus of the questioning of Ambassador Johnson. “OK everybody—let's #AskWoody whether he approves of a US President retweeting and legitimising a far-Right hate group which murdered a British MP”,  The Guardian’s  film critic Peter Bradshaw wrote on Wednesday. (Thomas Mair, convicted of the murder of MP Jo Cox in November 2016, shouted “Britain first” during the attack, a British court was told last year).
 
OK everybody — let&#39;s #AskWoody whether he approves of a US President retweeting and legitimising a far-Right hate group which murdered a British MP https://t.co/Dss1uXq2L0
 

“Apparently the US ambassador to the UK wants our questions about the US-UK relationship. I'd like to #AskWoody why his President is promoting fascism in this country,” wrote Patrick Harvie, a Green MSP (Member of the Scottish Parliament).
Other questions were more general in nature but no less difficult to answer. “Simple question. What the hell happened? America used to be a shining city on a hill. You have moral authority no longer,” one user asked, perhaps rhetorically.
 
Simple question. What the hell happened? America used to be a shining city on a hill. You have moral authority no longer. #AskWoody
 

Johnson, who was confirmed as U.S. Ambassador in London by the Senate in August, tweeted out an apparent response to the vociferous tone of the questioning on Thursday. “I wanted you to #AskWoody,” he wrote. “Thank you for your questions and feedback. I have relayed your concerns to Washington. The U.S. & UK have a long history of speaking frankly with each other, as all close friends do. Our relationship is strong, vital and enduring.”
As the owner of the New York Jets, one wonders whether Johnson mightn’t rather watch his team try to improve on a 4-7 record in 2017 against the Kansas City Chiefs on Sunday than answer questions related to the president’s Twitter conduct. The Jets winning a football game seems more likely right now than the storm around Trump’s retweets dying down.
The U.S. embassy in London told Newsweek: “The embassy often engages with the public via social media platforms. When Ambassador Johnson was running the New York Jets, he found it very valuable to get to know the fans by walking around the stadium on game day and this is the digital equivalent. Ambassador Johnson looks forward to answering some questions next week on December 5.”
This story has been updated with a statement from the U.S. embassy.


Some Cleveland Cavaliers didn’t want Dwyane Wade on the team this season, when the veteran shooting guard and future Hall of Famer made the jump from the listless Bulls to join his old buddy LeBron James in Cleveland.
James revealed that snippet in an interview with  The Athletic published Thursday evening. Richard Jefferson, a popular member of the Cavaliers’ roster, was traded to the Atlanta Hawks to make room for Wade. (Jefferson was subsequently waived by the Hawks and signed with the Denver Nuggets). That apparently upset certain members of the Cavaliers’ locker room, which rankled with James.
“I still know what he’s [Wade] capable of doing,” James told  The Athletic. “Why wouldn’t you want another guy in the locker room that brings a championship mentality and a guy who can still play? So, of course, it bothered me, but (expletive) it. It is what it is.”
Not for the first time and almost certainly not the last, James appears to have been right. Wade dropped 19 points on Thursday night as the Cavaliers saw off the awful Hawks at Philips Arena. James scored 24 with 12 assists and six rebounds, while Kevin Love led the team with 25 points. Love added 16 rebounds as the Cavaliers took their eighth straight, the NBA’s longest current winning streak despite having trailed 67-58 toward the end of the first half.
Wade isn’t the same player James dovetailed so beautifully with in Miami, but he’s playing a vital role from the Cavaliers’ bench. He has started just three games out of 20 for 23.5 minutes per night and 10.8 points per game, which would both be career lows were they extrapolated over the whole season.
LeBron James, left, and Dwyane Wade of the Cleveland Cavaliers at Philips Arena, Atlanta, Georgia, November 30. Wade's play from the bench has been key to the Cavaliers' resurgence.   Kevin C. Cox
It’s possible that some of the Cavaliers’ discomfort with Wade’s one-year deal has quietened since he moved to the Cavaliers’ second unit, after beginning the season as a starter.  ESPN’s Bryan Windhorst reported “angst” in the locker room in October after Wade’s signing shifted J.R. Smith to the bench.
There’s nothing like winning to silence dissenting voices, though. Wade is key to the Cavaliers’ efforts as relief for James and that has Tyronn Lue’s team gaining on the Celtics in the Eastern Conference standings. For now, at least, all seems well in northeast Ohio.


President Donald Trump’s frequent golf trips have cost the Secret Service close to $150,000 in golf cart rentals to protect him. Federal purchase orders obtained and reported by USA Today on Wednesday revealed that the Secret Service has spent at least $144,975 to rent golf carts since Trump took office, including $7,470 for outings during his stay at his private Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida over Thanksgiving.
The Secret Service is tasked with protecting the president, and the law prohibits Trump from paying for or providing equipment or services in order to prevent potential conflicts of interest for the agency.
Trump’s Thanksgiving golf trips around Palm Beach increased a contract that the Secret Service has with Florida-based Golf Cart & Utility Distributors to $69,430. The contract, signed in September and effective through May 2018, is the largest purchase order the Secret Service has made since the beginning of Trump’s tenure.
The president’s recurring visits to his private clubs and his big family size have stretched the Secret Service’s resources. By August, the agency could not afford overtime for hundreds of employees and more than 1,000 agents hit federally mandated salary caps and overtime allowances for the year.
In light of the Secret Service’s financial shortcomings, critics have called on Trump to cut down on his trips and vacations and stay in the White House.
"There's a question about how fast Trump is racking up bills that the taxpayers have to pay, which are largely trips to his hotels and his golf courses," Harrell Kirstein, a spokeswoman for progressive PAC American Bridge, told USA Today. “Instead of wasting so much time and money on his vacation, he should do his job."
But Trump has repeatedly said that his trips to the “Winter White House,” as he calls Mar-a-Lago, and to golf courses he owns in Bedminster, New Jersey, and Sterling, Virginia, are productive.
“Will be having meetings and working the phones from the Winter White House in Florida (Mar-a-Lago),” Trump tweeted the morning before Thanksgiving.

Since he was inaugurated, Trump has spent 103 days at properties he owns, including 81 days at four of his golf courses, according to an NBC News tracker.
The Secret Service reportedly paid Mar-a-Lago more than $63,000 over a few months for hotel costs ranging from $1,300 to $11,050.
Richard Painter, who was White House ethics lawyer under former President George W. Bush, told CNN that Trump risks violating the domestic emoluments clause if his company is profiting off the agency and that “Mar-a-Lago should either charge Secret Service a rate federal employees are authorized to pay for a hotel room under ordinary circumstances or not charge at all."


Eli Manning won’t be under center on Sunday when the putrid 2017 version of the New York Giants travels to California to play the underwhelming 2017 version of the Oakland Raiders. With the 2-9 Giants listing like some huge, rusty tanker toward the end of the regular season, head coach Ben McAdoo will give Geno Smith and Davis Webb the chance to go to work without Odell Beckham Jr. or Brandon Marshall.
Manning cried at his locker on Tuesday, in as good a physical metaphor for the Giants’ season as you will find. At least, unlike McAdoo (perhaps), he remains popular with at least one New Yorker. The Associated Press, via  The Morning Call, reported that Manning received one write-in vote for New York City mayor.
Eli Manning of the New York Giants at Levi's Stadium, Santa Clara, California, November 12. Manning has been benched by the Giants for Geno Smith.   Ezra Shaw/Getty
It wasn’t enough to beat Bill de Blasio, the incumbent, who was re-elected with 713,634 votes on the Democratic line and 46,478 on the Working Families line. Heck, it wasn’t even enough to beat several other random write-in characters from the New York City sports scene. Former Yankees Joe Girardi and Derek Jeter got two votes each,  AP reported. The Knicks’ Kristaps Porzingis got nine, plus two people who tried to vote for him and spelled his name wrong. Aaron Judge, the reigning American League rookie of the year, received 10 write-in ballots.
Manning won’t be getting a political career he never asked for any time soon, then. But the two-time Super Bowl winner remains an immensely popular figure in New York City and New Jersey. It’s probably not too much of a risk or stretch to suggest Manning is more popular than the 2017 Giants. A group of Giants fans have paid for three billboards around MetLife Stadium, according to the  New York Post, emblazoned with, “Big Blue Shame On You.” Manning, meanwhile, was practicing with the Giants’ scout team on Wednesday,  Yahoo Sports reported.
Anyone predicting that the Giants might finish the 2017 season with one more win than their quarterback received votes for New York City mayor would have been labelled as interesting, at least. But here we are at the end of November and that is actually a realistic proposition. Life is strange.


The Washington Redskins travel to Dallas on Thursday night to play the Cowboys in the latest instalment of probably the NFL’s most bitter and storied rivalry, accusations of hyperbole mulled over and quite possibly accepted.
Millions will watch because, well, it’s football, on a Thursday night that often produces terrible football but that still gets ratings—because no matter how bad the NFL gets as an on-field product, it has that McDonald’s thing where people just don’t seem to care. Or not in big enough numbers to deny Roger Goodell a contract extension, anyway. They will watch because the Cowboys are like a magnet that picks up schadenfreude instead of iron filings, and the Redskins aren’t significantly less morbidly interesting.
They shouldn’t watch. The Redskins at the Cowboys still matters tremendously to fans of both teams, of course, in the context of two games per season. But in terms of the NFL in 2017, this matchup could hardly matter less for all the good, interesting stuff to come in January. Neither team is terrible, exactly. Until the ‘Boys lost Ezekiel Elliott to his much-delayed suspension, they looked good for a Wild Card in the NFC. The Redskins have actually done okay with a nasty schedule—the seventh-hardest in the NFL this season. They have a franchise quarterback still making plays even though he’s been sacked 31 times through 11 games, according to The Washington Post. They’ve beaten all of the teams they should have beaten and lost to everyone stronger than them, including a Cowboys team that was still pounding the rock via Elliott in Week 8. They even own a couple of really impressive wins over the Rams and the Seahawks.
Dak Prescott of the Dallas Cowboys at AT&T Stadium, Arlington, Texas, November 23. Prescott and the Cowboys take on the Redskins on Thursday night.   Tom Pennington/Getty
But they’re still the definition of mediocrity, as are the Cowboys without Elliott and Sean Lee and with Dak Prescott throwing picks and looking more like a rookie quarterback than he did in his rookie season. The Cowboys and Redskins, with significant help from the Giants, are doing their best to make the NFC East the worst division in football in 2017. Only the magnificent Eagles, with M.V.P. candidate Carson Wentz at the controls, lift it above the weird AFC West. And at least that division still has three potential winners. And sure, these things are cyclical, but look at the NFC South. That division is currently filling three of four Wild Card spots.
The Cowboys and Redskins don’t suck but they are drifting towards the end of the season and for two such storied franchises and such a major rivalry, that’s kind of sad. The Eagles are going to win the NFC East. The Cowboys and Redskins aren’t going to the playoffs. If you want to watch it, the game is on NBC from 8.25 p.m. E.T. and it's streamable via Fubo.tv. But be prepared for a strangely hollow experience.


Admittedly there is some stiff competition around in the NBA this year. But on nights like Wednesday it’s hard to argue against Kyle Lowry and DeMar DeRozan as the most dynamic and entertaining backcourt duo of them all.
Lowry and DeRozan combined for 66 points in the Toronto Raptors’ 126-113 win over the Charlotte Hornets at Air Canada Centre—a game that was closer than it had any right to be after the Raptors dozed off at the start of the second half, drawing the ire of head coach Dwane Casey. “We’ve got to fix it [Toronto’s slow start to third quarters],” Casey told the  Toronto Star. “We talked about it. Other than start five other people, I don’t know what to do.”
A team with lesser individual talents than Lowry and DeRozan might have let the Hornets take over and win the game. But the point guard made eight of 11 three-pointers in a 36-point night and DeRozan scored 30 and added four rebounds and six assists. Lowry continued to rebound impressively, especially for a six-foot-one guard, with five, as the Raptors closed the game out to move to 13-7.
In a comprehensive piece listing the NBA’s best backcourts before the 2017 season began,  Bleacher Report put the Raptors’ duo fourth best with the following caveat. “Maybe DeRozan will finally become a deft three-point shooter,” Adam Fromal wrote. “Maybe he won't keep pounding the air out of the rock while trying to set himself up for a mid-range jumper.” Well, DeRozan is still an elite scorer and bad from three-point range. He only tried two of them against the Hornets and missed both.
But when Lowry can do it, and when he’s sinking threes himself, it doesn’t really matter—DeRozan can slash and drive to the basket to his heart’s content. The Raptors’ Twitter account certainly seemed pleased with this beautiful Lowry three-pointer, hit as time expired at the end of the second quarter.


Can Lowry and DeRozan finally drag Toronto to some tangible playoff success? It’s too early to say. But night after regular-season night, they provide a ton of entertainment for the neutral.


The NFL proposed joining with players in a bid to spur social justice change, but not everyone is on board.
The league submitted the final draft of the proposal to players on Monday that would contribute nearly $100 million to causes considered important to African-American communities.
The NFL is seeking an agreement that players will stand for the anthem in return and put an end to the controversial movement that former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick began last season.
Players are expected to discuss the proposal during a scheduled conference call Wednesday night. If they accept the league’s proposal, then the owners would vote to complete the deal at the annual league meetings in March, according to ESPN.
National funding as part of the league’s current plan would offer 25 percent to the United Negro College Fund and another 25 percent to Dream Corps. The Players Coalition, which has filed for paperwork for nonprofit status, would get the remaining 50 percent.
Two players already have expressed concerns about the proposal and plan to part from the Players Coalition, a group of approximately 40 players. Philadelphia Eagles safety Malcolm Jenkins and former NFL wide receiver Anquan Boldin are viewed as the leaders of the Players Coalition.
Jordan Phillips of the Miami Dolphins wears a t-shirt in support of former NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick in East Rutherford, New Jersey, September 24. The NFL has divided its players by offering $100 million for social justice causes in a bid to end the controversy sparked by Kaepernick.   Rich Schultz/Getty
San Francisco safety Eric Reid and Miami Dolphins safety Michael Thomas said they are withdrawing by releasing the same statement on Wednesday.
“With much thought and consideration, I’ve decided to officially withdraw my involvement in The Players Coalition founded by Malcolm Jenkins and Anquan Boldin,” the statement read.
”The Players Coalition was supposed to be formed as a group that represents NFL athletes who have been silently protesting social injustices and racism. However, Malcolm and Anquan can no longer speak on our behalf as we don’t believe the coalition’s beliefs are in our best interests as a whole.
“We will continue to have dialogue with the league to find equitable solutions but without Malcolm and Anquan as our representative.”
Reid was the first player to kneel beside Kaepernick last season during the latter’s demonstration to shine a light on police brutality and social injustice.
Kaepernick opted out of his deal with the 49ers in the spring and has remained unsigned with some believing he is being blackballed from the league. Kaepernick filed a grievance against the NFL in October accusing teams of collusion.


The College Football Playoff Selection Committee made the only decision available to it on Tuesday night, leaving Alabama looking from the outside in at the top four ahead of the final weekend of the regular season.
The Crimson Tide went on the road to Auburn with a perfect record, and a place in the SEC Championship Game against Georgia on the line. Both vanished at Jordan-Hare Stadium. And the Selection Committee reacted, dropping Nick Saban’s team to fifth in its fifth, and penultimate, rankings for the season. Auburn jumped from fourth to second courtesy of that 26-14 win, while Clemson moved into first place. Oklahoma shifted up from fourth to third. Miami’s bad loss at Pittsburgh sent it tumbling from second to seventh.
The Hurricanes, though, control their own destiny. Beat Clemson in the ACC Championship Game and Miami is almost certainly in the playoffs (and the loser of that is out). The Sooners will be in if they beat TCU for a second time this season in the Big 12 title game at AT&T Stadium.
Neither of those results, whichever way they fall, really help the Tide although the Committee will face some weirdness if Oklahoma loses against TCU. There is hope, though, for Saban in the other two Championship games. “As the Tide spend SEC championship Saturday at home for the first time since 2013, they will be forced to root for their most hated rival: the Auburn Tigers,” Adam Rittenberg wrote for  ESPN on Wednesday morning. If that sounds odd then Rittenberg’s logic is simple enough to understand. If Auburn walks off with the SEC Championship then the Tide’s one loss looks much stronger than if Georgia beats the team Alabama lost to one week previously.
That on its own won’t be enough, of course, because of Wisconsin sitting at nNo. 4 in the Selection Committee’s latest rankings. The Badgers’ soft schedule can be quibbled with but an unbeaten season and a Big 12 title will get them in—possibly as the third seed for a Rose Bowl game against Oklahoma, according to  Buckys5thquarter, the Badgers blog.
If Ohio State beats Wisconsin to win the Big Ten, though? Then  ESPN, for one, thinks the Selection Committee could turn back to the Tide because of the Buckeyes’ blowout at the hands of Iowa on November 4. “If it comes down to Ohio State vs. Alabama for the final spot, the Buckeyes might need a 2014-like smashing of Wisconsin in Indianapolis, plus a Georgia win over Auburn, to get the nod over Nick Saban's team,” Rittenberg writes.
So Alabama needs Auburn to keep Georgia from winning the SEC, and Ohio State to knock Wisconsin out, and  then the Selection Committee might have to consider Saban’s one-loss team (and a ‘good’ loss at that, compared to Ohio State’s Iowa shock). This weekend promises to be interesting indeed, even without Alabama playing.


Eli Manning will not start for the New York Giants on Sunday on the road against the Oakland Raiders, ending the NFL’s longest current ironman streak for a quarterback.
In the process of benching Manning, the Giants will end a far more durable and dubious record. In place of the 36-year-old under center in the hostile Oakland Alameda Coliseum will be Geno Smith, a former second-round pick of the New York Jets. When Smith takes the first snap he will become the first black starting quarterback in the Giants’ 92-year history.
All 31 other NFL franchises have started a black quarterback in the 49 years since Marlin Briscoe first played the position for the Denver Broncos. The New York Times reported that Smith is also the first quarterback to start for both the Giants and Jets.
Just how long Smith will hold the starter’s job is another question. “Over the last five games, we will take a look at Geno, and we will also give Davis [Webb] an opportunity,” head coach Ben McAdoo told the Giants’ official website. The franchise, which has crawled to a 2-9 record this season and lies rock bottom of the NFC East, selected Webb with the 87th overall pick of the 2017 NFL Draft. Smith, who spent three years with the Jets from 2013 to 2016, started all 16 regular-season games as a rookie but threw 21 interceptions to go along with 12 touchdowns.
Geno Smith of the New York Giants at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey, on August 11. Smith will replace Eli Manning as quarterback on Sunday.   Rich Schultz/Getty
Without Manning’s say-so, the Giants might not have decided to move on quite yet from starting their veteran signal-caller, who has collected two Super Bowl rings and a reputation for clutch play rather than the dominant statistics of his peers.
“Coach McAdoo told me I could continue to start while Geno and Davis are given an opportunity to play,” Manning said. “My feeling is that if you are going to play the other guys, play them. Starting just to keep the streak going and knowing you won’t finish the game and have a chance to win it is pointless to me, and it tarnishes the streak. Like I always have, I will be ready to play if and when I am needed. I will help Geno and Davis prepare to play as well as they possibly can.”
Smith will have to work without two starting wide receivers. All-Pros Odell Beckham Jr. and Brandon Marshall are both out with injuries. The Giants' website appeared to be trying to soften the blow of Manning’s demotion when it wrote, “Manning has been throwing to an inexperienced group of wideouts that includes Roger Lewis, Jr., Tavarres King, Travis Rudolph, plus rookie tight end Evan Engram.” Smith cannot hope to ever compete with Manning’s streak of starts. But he will write his name in the annals of the NFL on Sunday.


Former world number one Serena Williams has yet to make a decision about her participation at the Australian Open, while world number 12 Svetlana Kuznetsova is also a doubt for the first grand slam of 2018 after undergoing wrist surgery.
Williams was around two months pregnant when she captured her 23rd grand slam singles title in Melbourne earlier this year and was hoping to defend her crown next January following the birth of her daughter in September.
”Serena is getting ready for 2018,“ the 36-year-old American’s coach Patrick Mouratoglou told CNN. ”She is practicing and getting back in shape. I will be joining her soon in Florida.
“We will see how her body is reacting and how her tennis level is and we will take a decision regarding Australia.”
Russian Kuznetsova told local media that she was recovering from wrist surgery conducted earlier this month after separate injuries to the area and said there was no specific time frame for her return.
“I had two injuries in my wrist, so I had to do the operation,” the 32-year-old double major winner said.
“There’s a very complicated diagnosis. I‘m still recovering and the doctor does not talk about specific dates when I can start training and play. Australia, most likely, I will have to miss.”
Meanwhile, Victoria Azarenka, who has not played since July due to an ongoing child custody battle, is set to return at the ASB Classic in January but will be without coach Michael Joyce, who released a statement on their partnership.
“Vika is an extremely talented player. While I am excited to see her return to tennis, I encourage and respect her decision to put her family first,” Joyce said of the Belarusian two-time Australian Open champion and former world number one.
“It is with deep regret that I have decided to move forward with my coaching career while she continues to work out her private life. I look forward to seeing her on the tour soon and wish her the best of luck.”
The Australian Open will be held from January 15-28.


In a 15-year professional playing career in the NBA, LeBron James had never been ejected from a game.
That changed on Wednesday night at Quicken Loans Arena, in game 1,082 of James’s professional career. With the Cavaliers leading the Heat 93-70, James missed a layup over Heat forward James Johnson. He argued with referee Kane Fitzgerald, who assessed him a technical foul and chucked him from the game.
It didn’t matter, at least in terms of the result. James was tossed with one minute and 59 seconds remaining in the third quarter; the Cavaliers still won 108-97 to pull within 3.5 games of the Celtics for the Eastern Conference lead. Despite his truncated game, James still managed 21 points, 12 rebounds, six assists, five steals and a block in 28 minutes of play.
"I got fouled all the way up the court, from the time that I stripped him [Johnson], all the way until I got to the rim," James said of the ejection in quotes reported by  ESPN. "I said what I had to say and then I moved on, but he decided I should get [ejected]. It is what it is. We got the win, and that's what's most important."
Fitzgerald claimed James had thrown an “air punch” and used “vulgarity” against him as reasons for tossing the future Hall of Famer from the game. "It was a culmination of a couple different acts," Fitzgerald told ESPN pool reporter Dave McMenamin, as reported by the  league office. "Immediately after the no call, he turned and threw an air punch directly at me and then he aggressively charged at me and then he used vulgarity in my ear a few times."
James had a broader complaint after the game about how he is being officiated this season. "I think I'm one of the league leaders in points in the paint,” James told  Cleveland.com. “I drive just as much as anybody. At this point, it's almost like they're trying to turn me into a jump shooter. I can't be a jump shooter.” James attempted only one free throw against the Heat.
Dwyane Wade, James’s teammate during their days with the Heat and now playing a key role from the bench for the Cavaliers, said Fitzgerald should have given James the “benefit of the doubt.”
There was one person, though, who agreed unequivocally with the official. "Yup. Should have got thrown out. Yup," Tyronn Lue told Cleveland.com when asked about the decision. Was Fitzgerald right? Watch the video below and decide for yourself.
LeBron ejected for the first time in his career _ pic.twitter.com/0Omp5Uymem



Eli Manning helped the New York Giants win two Super Bowls, but when faced with a losing record of 2-9, Coach Ben McAdoo announced on Tuesday Manning would be benched. Instead, Geno Smith is slated to start against the Oakland Raiders. Rookie Davis Webb will play, too.
“Geno will start this week," McAdoo said. “Over the last five games, we will take a look at Geno, and we will also give Davis an opportunity.”
Is this how the Eli Manning era ends? Getting benched for Geno Smith. pic.twitter.com/UMGhzghSEV
Twitter users were generally outraged over McAdoo’s decision, which ended Manning’s streak of starting 210 consecutive games in NFL. He’s behind Brett Favre, who started 297 regular season games.
Ben McAdoo: Geno Smith will start this week.Eli Manning: you high? pic.twitter.com/zEFKlrUegR
Manning apparently chose not to start against the Raiders.
“My feeling is that if you are going to play the other guys, play them,” Manning said. “Starting just to keep the streak going and knowing you won't finish the game and have a chance to win it is pointless to me, and it tarnishes the streak. Like I always have, I will be ready to play if and when I am needed. I will help Geno and Davis prepare to play as well as they possibly can.”
Despite his benching, Eli Manning will always have a special place in our hearts.Our 404 error page:https://t.co/S6EmwEpClT pic.twitter.com/tIlDIpSyCV
Soon after the news broke, memes of Manning’s face when he heard the news started to go viral.
Injuries have plagued the beleaguered Giants, with star wide receivers Odell Beckham, Jr. and Brandon Marshall being out for most of the season.
Eli Manning has been BENCHED! pic.twitter.com/GdI5ZuurU8
Ultimately, McAdoo said replacing Manning was a last ditch effort to try to get a win.
“This is not the way it should be, but unfortunately, it’s where we are,” McAdoo said. “Our number one priority every week is to go win a game, but we owe it to the organization to get an evaluation of everybody on the roster, and that includes at the quarterback position. I’ll say it again, I have the utmost respect for Eli and everything he has done for this organization throughout his career. He is the consummate professional. He doesn’t like the position we are in, and neither do any of us. Eli has had to deal with a lot this season. Through it all, he has done everything we have asked of him in getting that unit ready to play. He has been steady, just like he has always been.”
Lets go live to Eli Manning. pic.twitter.com/yJg4FqeYQ0


Tiger Woods returns to professional golf on Thursday at the Hero World Challenge in Albany, The Bahamas, hoping to prove he is over the injury problems that have derailed a Hall of Fame career.
Woods, 41, has not played a round of professional golf since February when he felt back spasms at the Dubai Desert Classic. In between times, the former world number one and winner of 14 major championships entered rehab for an addiction to prescription drugs.
Now Woods is on the comeback trail once again, at the invitational tournament he hosts, albeit with tempered expectations. "I'm excited about coming back again," Woods said on Tuesday in quotes reported by  USA Today. "My expectations have been tempered a little bit just because I’ve been away from the game for two years."
Woods made an attempt at returning in the Bahamas last December, and briefly raised hopes that he had conquered the problems that have stopped him encroaching any further on Jack Nicklaus’s Major record.
How do the bookmakers see Woods’s return going? It’s no surprise to find him at long odds, given the strength of a field containing eight of the world’s top ten players.  Paddy Power, the Irish betting company, gives Woods the third-longest odds of all 18 players in the tournament. Woods is 30-1, ahead of Charley Hoffman and Kevin Chappell.
CBS ’s  SportsLine  tool gives Woods an even more remote chance of taking home the $3,500,000 winner’s prize. After simulating the event 10,000 times,  SportsLine puts Woods bottom of the field at 45-1. Justin Thomas, the world number three, Jordan Spieth and world number one Dustin Johnson are priced at 6-1.
Thomas, Spieth and Johnson—in that order—are given the shortest odds by  Oddschecker.com. Woods is +3,300 along with Charley Hoffman and Kevin Chappell. There will be many golf fans—and Woods devotees—who will bet in hope more than expectation. But it’s unlikely to lead to many rewards this weekend.


Perhaps, this time around, a Tiger Woods comeback really will stick.
On Thursday, Woods takes to a professional golf course in competition for the first time since February. He will play as part of an 18-man field at the Hero World Challenge in Albany in the Bahamas, a tournament that he hosts. It was here in December 2016 that Woods shot a sparkling 7-under-par 65 in the second round to raise hopes that this return might be a lasting one.
But the year since then has been difficult. Woods withdrew from the Dubai Desert Classic in February before the second round, with what his manager, Mark Steinberg, described as “back spasms.” Woods missed the Masters in March and had back surgery in April. Then, on May 29, he was arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence near his home in Jupiter Island, Florida.
Woods checked into rehab in June to treat an addiction to prescription painkillers. He announced his return on his personal website on October 30. "I am excited to return to competitive golf at the Hero World Challenge," Woods wrote at the time. "Albany is the perfect setting and it will be great to join this outstanding field.”
Captain's assistant Tiger Woods of the U.S. team at the Presidents Cup at Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey City on September 30. Woods makes his playing return at the Hero World Challenge on Thursday.   Rob Carr/Getty
The Hero World Challenge suits Woods’s comeback as a tournament with an elite level of competition but no cut. The 41-year-old will line up alongside many of golf’s luminaries, including the top three players in the world: Dustin Johnson, Jordan Spieth and Justin Thomas. Hideki Matsuyama, fifth in the world, Justin Rose (sixth) and Rickie Fowler (ninth) will also be present.
Woods’s latest attempt at a prolonged return to professional golf is available on television via the Golf Channel and NBC. The Golf Channel has coverage from 1:20 p.m. ET to 4:30 p.m. ET on Thursday and Friday. On Saturday, the Golf Channel will show coverage from 12 p.m. ET until 2:30 p.m. ET, with NBC taking over until 5 p.m. On Sunday, everything shifts an hour earlier: The Golf Channel will broadcast from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. ET, with NBC picking up the coverage from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. ET. Those wishing to stream the event can do so via a subscription to FuboTV.


How badly the Los Angeles Clippers will rue the scrum that injured the left knee of their All-Star forward Blake Griffin on Monday night at Staples Center will only become clear with time.
With four minutes to go in a tight contest against the Lakers, Austin Rivers fell on Griffin’s left leg, according to  NBA.com. The limb bent “awkwardly,” and Griffin left the game. The Clippers will find out the extent of the injury after tests on Tuesday.
At least for one night, though, the Clippers found scoring from other areas and personnel, which may bode well if they are to lose Griffin for any length of time. While Griffin put up 26 points, 11 rebounds and six assists, veteran shooting guard Lou Williams exploded for 42 points.
Williams’ threat off the bench shouldn’t come as anything strange to the Lakers’ organization—he was a perennial candidate for NBA Sixth Man of the Year while with the Lakers between 2015 and 2017. Huge numbers off the bench have been Williams’ specialty throughout his career. He scored 40 against the Memphis Grizzlies in December 2016 and followed that up with 37 against the Utah Jazz three days later. He was Sixth Man of the Year runner-up for the 76ers in 2011-12, and won that title with the Raptors in 2014-15.
Lou Williams of the L.A. Clippers at Staples Center, Los Angeles, November 13. Williams scored 42 points as the Clippers beat the Lakers on Monday night.   Harry How/Getty
Williams’ breakout put the struggles of the Lakers’ rookie point guard into stark relief. “It was another bad night for Lonzo Ball, who ended the game with three points on one-of-seven shooting,” Drew Garrison wrote on  Silver Screen & Roll, the Lakers blog. “He missed five of his six three-point attempts, and his seven assists and five rebounds simply didn’t make up for his lack of scoring, or the three turnovers that came with his stat line.”
Williams, meanwhile, has equalled a career-high through 19 games with 18.6 ppg. The Clippers aren’t dead in the water without Griffin; as for the Lakers, it was hard to miss the bitter irony of one of their former players lighting it up while their rookie guard floundered once again at shooting the ball.




The Memphis Grizzlies fired coach David Fizdale on Monday and named J.B. Bickerstaff as the interim head coach.
Memphis is mired in an eight-game losing streak and owns a 7-12 mark this season after advancing to the playoffs in 2016-17.
“After a thorough evaluation, I decided a change in course was necessary to move forward and provide the team and organization its best chance at success this season and beyond,” Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said.
“Coach Fizdale represented the Grizzlies and City of Memphis proudly, and we wish him well as he continues his career.”
David Fizdale, former head coach of the Memphis Grizzlies, at FedExForum, Memphis, Tennessee, April 27. Fizdale was fired on Monday following a run of eight straight losses.   Frederick Breedon/Getty
Fizdale has recorded a 50-51 mark since being named the 13th head coach in franchise history on May 29, 2016.
“Coach Fizdale worked tirelessly to achieve on-court success, and for that, we are grateful. We wish him and his family all the best in the future,” Grizzlies controlling owner Robert J. Pera said. “We remain focused on achieving sustainable, long-term success.”
Bickerstaff, who served as Memphis’ associate head coach, posted a 37-34 mark as an interim coach with the Houston Rockets in 2015-16.
Bickerstaff, who spent five seasons with the Rockets (2011-16), also served as an assistant coach with the Charlotte Bobcats (2004-07) and Minnesota Timberwolves (2007-11).


"This is like NBA royalty," said `Philadelphia 76ers head coach Brett Brown of LeBron James and company before the Cleveland Cavaliers walked into Wells Fargo Center on Monday night. "And you don't back away from it. You're not intimidated by it. You embrace it. I said a while ago, the group isn't coming here looking for autographs. We're here to win a game."
Shorn of two All-Star point guards for much of this season so far, the Cavaliers have at times resembled tarnished royalty—a monarchy out of step with a brave new era. Isaiah Thomas continues to watch from the sidelines in civilian dress ahead of a projected return to play in January. Derrick Rose’s situation remains uncertain.  ESPN reported on Monday that Rose was “in communication” with the Cavaliers’ front office, as he mulls over whether to try and return from an ankle injury. “Rose's increasing frustration with injuries is causing him to question his desire to continue playing,” Adrian Wojnarowski wrote.
Through those ructions, though—and despite often starting with a third-or-fourth choice point guard—the Cavaliers have kept winning. Since they lost to the Rockets on November 9, Tyronn Lue’s team has reeled off eight straight victories. The Cavs are third in the East, four games behind a Celtics team that looked ready to make some kind of assault on the Warriors’ single-season win record last week. The Celtics met Andre Drummond and the Pistons on Monday night and took some punishment, losing 118-108. Slowly, things aren’t looking so bad for the Cavaliers.
They still have a "King," of course. LeBron James put up 30 points, 13 rebounds and six assists against the kids trying to crash the Cavaliers’ Eastern Conference party. Dwyane Wade chipped in, vitally, from the bench with 15 points. Maybe more important than those 45 points between them for the old Heat buddies, though, were the intangibles they hit the baby 76ers with. “During a key sequence in the fourth quarter, it became about Wade and James vs. Joel Embiid,” Dave McMenamin wrote for  ESPN. “James punctuated the play [a 23-foot shot over Embiid] with something to say to Embiid, causing the big man to drop his head at first, before flashing a smile back at James as he walked to the bench.” The 76ers’ big man ended the night with 30 points; the Cavaliers left Philadelphia with the all-important "W." Some things change, and others, well—when you have James, many of them stay the same.
Will Rose be back? No one seems to know for sure. Thomas will be—though in what shape, again, there is uncertainty. Even without a settled, elite starting backcourt, Lue can lean on James’s (and Wade’s) enduring greatness to keep on pumping out the wins.


The University of Alabama’s vice grip over the college football regular season ended suddenly, brutally, on Saturday night at Jordan-Hare Stadium.
Nick Saban’s vaunted defense couldn’t stop Jarrett Stidham or Kerryon Johnson, who ran 30 times for Auburn University while nursing injuries; Alabama’s serviceable offense, led by Jalen Hurts, couldn’t hurt the Tigers. The final score, 26-14, and comfortable in the end for Auburn, failed to reflect the magnitude of the shock of the loss.
The ramifications are many. Auburn is going to the Southeastern Conference Championship Game next weekend to play the University of Georgia in the Mercedes-Benz Superdome in Atlanta. If the Bulldogs win, and take back their loss to the Tigers from earlier in the season, they will almost certainly represent the SEC in the College Football Playoffs.
Head coach Nick Saban of the Alabama Crimson Tide at Jordan-Hare Stadium in Auburn, Alabama, on November 25. The loss to the Tigers has cast the Tide's playoff aspirations into doubt.   Kevin C. Cox/Getty
It’s more complicated if Auburn beats Georgia next Saturday. On the one hand, that could benefit Alabama as the College Football Playoff Committee—which will make its final decision on December 3—would generate controversy by sending a two-loss team to the final four. But then, Auburn would have won the SEC  and raised questions, at least, over the caliber of teams the Crimson Tide have faced.
“While the Tide have been dominant, the committee will also point out that their best wins have come against three-loss LSU, which lost to Troy, and four-loss Mississippi State. Their only other Power 5 win against an opponent over .500 was vs. Texas A&M,” Heather Dinich wrote for  ESPN on Sunday. Alabama isn’t going to get in over the SEC champion.
That leaves three more spots open. The winner of the Atlantic Coast Conference Championship Game between Clemson and Miami will finish the regular season with one loss, so one of those two teams is getting in.
Then down to two more spots, one of which will be taken by the University of Wisconsin-Madison if it beats Ohio State in the Big Ten Championship Game on Saturday. The Badgers will have gone through the regular season unbeaten if they beat the Buckeyes. The  AP rankings, released on Sunday, had Oklahoma second behind Clemson.  SB Nation noted an irony on Saturday: without a Big 12 title game, the Sooners would almost certainly already be in the playoff thanks to a one-loss regular season and a statement win on the road against Ohio State.
But the championship game that the Big 12 introduced to make it more competitive in the national title conversation means the Sooners have to play a tough Texas Christian University team again. Win and they are in as the third seed. Lose and it gets weird. Maybe, as  SB Nation points out, TCU has a shot. But losses for Wisconsin or Oklahoma would also bring Alabama back into the conversation.
Saban’s team isn’t out of this, yet. Heading into a climactic weekend of championship games, the playoff picture remains mysterious.


Alex Smith and the Kansas City Chiefs are going about the 2017 NFL season the wrong way round.
Finish strong, the adage goes, implying a truth of professional sports: That teams that heat up down the stretch will generally be better placed than those whose bloom came in the distant summer.
Well, Andy Reid’s Chiefs started like a Mack truck, leaping out to 5-0. They went to Foxborough and handed the Patriots one of the worst defeats of the Bill Belichick era. They fought off an Eagles team that has turned out to be the NFL’s best at Arrowhead Stadium. They had a defense that could take the ball away, great special teams, and an offense with the X factors of Kareem Hunt, Tyreek Hill and Travis Kelce.
Oh, and a quarterback in Alex Smith, who had raised his game from solid to MVP level, from so-called “game-manager” to a player who looked capable of driving the Chiefs downfield every week, possibly even to Super Bowl 52.
If anyone knows how unforgiving the NFL can be as a starting quarterback, though, it is Smith. It was week nine of the 2012 season when Smith was hit by Jo-Lonn Dunbar of the then–St. Louis Rams. Smith was concussed; in came Colin Kaepernick who marched the 49ers to within a touchdown of winning Super Bowl XLVII. Smith never got his starter’s job back—it was the career trajectory that led him to Reid and the Chiefs and two Pro Bowl appearances and narrow and sometimes tragicomic playoff defeats that still promised better to come from a player who has consistently proved his doubters wrong in the second half of his career.
Up to a point, that is. Reid, like Jim Harbaugh before him, may be learning that a team can only progress so far with Smith under center. Smith wasn’t monumentally terrible on Sunday as the Chiefs lost to the Bills at Arrowhead, their fifth defeat in six games and one that put their hopes of winning the AFC West in serious peril. But he wasn’t as good as he needed to be while key parts of the offense around him struggled. It may be cruel, but in their last three games, all of them losses, the Chiefs have scored 17, 9 and 10 points. That falls on Smith. In a savage editorial, the  Kansas City Star identified Smith as one reason behind the Chiefs’ collapse. “Alex Smith for the second straight week… [was]  so off-kilter in so many ways as to leave you wondering if something’s wrong with his arm or has gotten in his head after a pretty marvelous first half of the season,” Vahe Gregorian wrote on Sunday.
Quarterback Alex Smith of the Kansas City Chiefs in Kansas City, Missouri, on November 26. The Chiefs have lost five of their last six games.   Jamie Squire/Getty
Elite athlete as he is, Smith wouldn’t be human if he hadn’t considered by now that history could repeat itself. "No. That's not where I'm at right now [changing quarterbacks]. There's a couple other things I got to take care of," Reid told  NFL.com on Sunday after the loss to the Bills. But behind Smith is a potential stud in Patrick Mahomes, drafted tenth overall by the Chiefs in April.
The parallels aren’t perfect of course. This time around it would be Smith’s bad play getting him benched. And Mahomes is highly unlikely to have the same impact Kaepernick did. But if Reid is a student of football history, as he is, he will know that ripping up the playbook doesn’t have to mean giving up on the season. And that may be bad news for Smith.


After Manchester United won the Europa League in May, securing a return to the Champions League this season, José Mourinho gave an insight into his perspective on the game as a whole.
“There are lots of poets in football,” he said, “but poets don’t win many titles.” Was he referring to Arsène Wenger, his longtime adversary at Arsenal who'd failed to win the Premier League since 2004? Or maybe it was aimed at Pep Guardiola, the Manchester City manager who finished his first season in England trophyless.
What was clear was Mourinho’s justification of his method. He had won three trophies and would march right on with the same approach, dismissive of all the critics. But now, just seven months on, Mourinho has to reconsider those methods.
On Saturday, his Manchester United team travels to north London to take on Arsenal, desperately trying to keep sight of league leader Manchester City, which is eight points ahead already. In order to do that, Mourinho will have to change course.
Footage from Mourinho’s first spell in English football—with Chelsea, from 2004 through 2007—shows the Portuguese coach’s message to his players during a pre-match meeting. “I am not putting pressure on you, [saying] ‘We have to win.’ I don’t want to put that kind of pressure on you,” Mourinho told the group. “But we cannot lose. We cannot lose.” This certainly seems to be his mindset since he took over Manchester United.
José Mourinho (left) and Arsène Wenger (right) at Old Trafford, in Manchester, England, on November 19, 2016.   Shaun Botterill/Getty
When his team plays away to one of the so-called “top six” teams, it falters. Three times it has lost to Antonio Conte’s Chelsea at Stamford Bridge, a place he once called home, and failed to score.
Wayne Rooney’s 71st-minute goal against Tottenham in May was not enough to cancel Victor Wanyama and Harry Kane’s earlier goals that saw United lose in the final game at White Hart Lane.
Then came the goalless draws. Twice at Anfield, games between Liverpool and Manchester United failed to live up to anticipation, ending 0-0, while Mourinho’s only Manchester derby at Etihad Stadium also finished goalless.
The Emirates offers no happy memories for United or Mourinho either. The last two visits have ended in defeat and failure to score in 180 minutes of football. That cannot be repeated this weekend if Mourinho is to cling to any hope of catching City. Guardiola’s team hosts West Ham at Etihad Stadium, a game it is expected to take all three points from and possibly boost its goal difference even higher.
In Romelu Lukaku, Paul Pogba, Zlatan Ibrahimović, Marcus Rashford, Anthony Martial, Henrikh Mkhitaryan and Juan Mata, Mourinho has the tools to beat Arsenal. But he may need to bring some poetry to his style in order to do so.


The Oakland Raiders and the Denver Broncos found a way to breathe vitality into two listing seasons on Sunday evening: by having a wild brawl.
It didn’t take long to get going. On the second play of the Raiders’ second drive, wide receiver Michael Crabtree tangled with the Broncos’ star cornerback Aqib Talib. The two have history, as the Associated Press pointed out on Sunday evening. “Crabtree has been upset ever since Talib ripped Crabtree’s chain off his neck during the regular-season finale last season,” the AP  wrote. On this occasion, Crabtree blocked Talib and the two ended up in a bundle on the sideline. Again, Talib ripped Crabtree’s chain off his neck.
The AP pointed out another possible reason for Talib’s anger. On a play moments before, another Crabtree block had injured Chris Harris, the Broncos cornerback. “I’ve never seen that in the NFL," Harris said in quotes reported by  247Sports.com, claiming that Crabtree had sucker-punched him.
 
Broncos and Raiders fight inspired by Aqib Talib and Michael Crabtree pic.twitter.com/I0rcqi5pIm
 

Vance Joseph, the Broncos head coach, hit out at his own team in the postgame press conference. “I don’t like it [fighting]. It’s unacceptable,” Joseph told Broncos beat reporter Zack Stevens. “We can’t lose our best players because of a personal battle. That’s a personal battle. This is about the Broncos. It’s unacceptable, we can’t have it. It’s nonnegotiable… We can’t have it." Talib and Crabtree were both ejected from the game for throwing punches at each other. (Talib’s helmet was still on; he'd ripped off Crabtree’s.) Gabe Jackson, the Raiders guard, also was ejected for pushing an official in the melee.
After the fighting, a game of football broke out. The Raiders took care of the Broncos’ anemic offense, winning 21-14 to move level with the Chargers and one game behind the slumping Kansas City Chiefs in an AFC West no one seems to want to win right now.


Tom Brady grew up in the Bay Area as a fan of the San Francisco 49ers, a team that ran up 16 straight winning seasons starting when he was just 6 years old.
Now, as a 40-year-old with all kinds of NFL records and five titles, Brady can also claim to be the leader of the team that past that 49ers’ total. Dallas is the all-time leader with 20.
“I was a kid growing up in San Mateo when the Niners were doing that, too,” Brady said after his four touchdown passes led New England to a 35-17 rout of the Miami Dolphins on Sunday that ensured the Patriots’ 17th straight winning season.
”It’s pretty cool,“ Brady said. ”The expectations are really high because of what teams in the past have done and I think (the media) look up at Coach (Bill) Belichick and understand kind of what we’re playing for and the history of the team and the expectations. They understand that.
“Winning seasons are great. Obviously, we’re trying to win every game we play. We started 2-2 and to be 9-2 with seven straight wins is pretty good, but we know our biggest games are ahead of us.”
The Patriots have five games left, four against their own division, two of those against the Buffalo Bills.
Brady took some shots from an aggressive defense and also suffered a cut on his left elbow trying to retrieve a loose ball. Despite the physical play, Brady threw two touchdown passes to tight ene Rob Gronkowski and one each to running back Rex Burkhead and Brandin Cooks. Burkhead also ran for a score as New England went 5-for-5 inside the red zone.
Tom Brady of the New England Patriots, right, at Gillette Stadium, Foxboro, Massachusetts, November 26. Brady threw four touchdowns against the Dolphins on Sunday.   Adam Glanzman/Getty
Miami (4-7) lost its fifth in a row and has dropped nine straight at Gillette Stadium.
“Losing (stinks) and if anybody likes losing this is the wrong sport to be in, because it is tough,” Miami center Mike Pouncey said.
Brady had a string of 189 straight passes without an interception snapped, but went on to complete his 83rd game with at least three touchdown passes.
He has thrown 54 touchdown passes and five interceptions in 23 games since returning from his Deflategate suspension. He has 26 touchdown passes this season, a record for quarterbacks in a season after turning 40. It was also his 28th game with at least four touchdown passes, third-most all-time, and he has 482 touchdown passes.
“All the good teams are going to start playing really very well and we’ve got to be one of those teams,” Brady said.
Brady finished 18 of 28 for 227 yards.
Gronkowski, who caught five passes for 82 yards, notched his 16th game with multi-touchdown catches, breaking Randy Moss’ club record. Cooks, who scored on a shovel pass from the Miami 5, recorded six catches for 83 yards.
Dion Lewis ran for 112 yards on 15 carries, the first 100-yard game of his career -- as the Patriots ran for 196 yards.
The 17 Miami points matched the highest total against the Patriots during their winning streak. They have outscored the opposition 196-92 during the streak
Safety Reshad Jones ran 14 yards with a botched New England snap (from backup center Ted Karras) and running back Kenyan Drake caught an 8-yard touchdown pass for the Miami touchdowns. Cody Parkey also kicked a 28-yard field goal.
Matt Moore, making his second start of the season with Jay Cutler out with a concussion, was 23 of 34 for 215 yards and two interceptions, and was sacked seven times.
Patriots special teamer Nate Ebner, who ran 14 yards with a direct-snap fake punt to keep the opening drive of the game going, suffered a knee injury on the play and was ruled out for the rest of the game.
The Dolphins then lost tailbacks Damien Williams (shoulder, carted off) and Senorise Perry (concussion) to injury in the second half. Cornerback Bobby McCain was lost to the Miami defense after throwing a punch at wide receiver Danny Amendola in the second half.
New England linebacker Trevor Reilly was injured in the collision with Perry and missed the rest of the game, while numerous players from both sides left the field after timeouts for injury.
Cornerback Stephon Gilmore’s interception in the end zone in the final seconds of the first half kept the Patriots perfect on the season -- they have not allowed a point in the final two minutes of a first half.
The teams play again in Miami on Dec. 11.
“It is not a good feeling right now being in this situation once again,” said Pouncey.


Manchester United boss José Mourinho revealed in a press conference today he is worried there is nothing he can do to prevent Marouane Fellaini leaving the club at the end of the season for free.
The Belgian midfielder’s contract ends in June 2018 and he has not agreed a new deal with Manchester United’s board. Reports of talks with French giants Paris Saint-Germain have caused concern for the Portuguese manager, along with rumors that Arsenal and Turkish side Besiktas are also interested.
However, Fellaini is not the only player out of contract at the end of the season. Currently, seven other players in the first team squad could leave the club in the summer.
Daley Blind, Ander Herrera, Juan Mata, Ashley Young, Luke Shaw, Michael Carrick and Zlatan Ibrahimovic, who collectively have a market value of an estimated £125 million, could all depart for free.
Under the Bosman ruling, players can move to a new club at the end of their contract without their old club receiving a fee, meaning they can agree a pre-contract with another club for a free transfer if their current contract has six months or less remaining.
Featured: Manchester United: Jose Mourinho praises Fellaini, but could be about to lose him
Carrick played his testimonial match earlier this season as United honored his service to the club, usually signaling a player is ending their time there, so a move for the 36 year old may not be surprising. Veteran forward Ibrahimovic was not even expected to be offered another deal for this season let alone one for next year, and Shaw’s future has been in question ever since Mourinho stated the Englishman does not feature in United’s plans.
But players such as Blind, Herrera, Mata, and Young—who has reinforced his status as an invaluable player in Mourinho’s side this season—are crucial parts of United’s team, having played 2,055 minutes between them so far in the Premier League.
Juan Mata, left, and José Mourinho at Old Trafford, Manchester, U.K., February 16. Mata has thrived under Mourinho at Manchester United.   Reuters / Jason Cairnduff
Ahead of United’s match tomorrow at home to Brighton, Mourinho said: “I’m not involved in contracts, deals. I respect both, I respect the player because he has the right to decide his future if he finishes his contract.
“And I respect the board, because the decisions and discussions are under their control, so I just wait, wishing they will have an understanding.”
As Mourinho suggested, the players’ futures are out of his hands, but if agreements cannot be made soon the club risks losing key players without gaining any returns.


Even after the most dispiriting loss of a Cowboys season that has veered, slowly, off the rails, Jerry Jones refused to give up the ghost of a first Super Bowl in 21 years.
The Cowboys had been torched through the air by Philip Rivers and the unpredictable Chargers, who vaulted themselves into contention to win the AFC West on Thanksgiving Day and all but condemned Jones’s Boys to a defeat that leaves them relying on the incompetence of the teams above them in the NFC to make the playoffs.
It isn’t happening, not least because the Cowboys are now two games behind the Falcons who occupy the NFC’s sixth seed. Because Ezekiel Elliott has three more games of a suspension to serve, and without him Dak Prescott keeps throwing interceptions as he tries to jump-start an offense lacking its motor. (Prescott threw three more picks against the Chargers on Thursday night in Arlington). Because even if they  caught  the Falcons, if the offense could right itself in Elliott’s absence, then there are still the Packers, the Lions, the Seahawks to jump over. One of those teams is going to win as many if not more of their remaining games than the Cowboys.
Without Elliott the Cowboys are a bad offense. Without Sean Lee, the middle linebacker and spiritual leader of the defense, they cannot keep teams out of their own endzone. The Lee-less defense let Rivers complete 27 of 33 passes for 434 yards and three touchdowns. Wide receiver Keenan Allen caught 11 passes for 172 yards.  NFL.com noted that the Cowboys couldn’t force a punt all game. Almost everything that could have gone wrong, went wrong. Zach Martin, a key part of the offensive line, was ruled out of the game with a concussion. Even the sunlight beat Jason Garrett’s team. “Sun glare in AT&T Stadium could have cost the Cowboys,” Kevin Patra wrote on  NFL.com. “Rookie corner Jourdan Lewis dropped a would-be interception in the second quarter with the score tied. It appeared Lewis lost the ball in the sun and had it deflect off his hands, falling harmlessly to the turf.”
And still, Jones believes. "I think you have [Cowboys] players that have played at high levels and won games," Jones told  ESPN. "But the answer [to whether the Cowboys can make the postseason] is yes, as long as you have a breath to get into the playoffs. We had the Giants come up the backside here and beat the top seed. They won the whole thing five, six, seven years ago. That's what is great about this game."
Such steadfast zealotry is weirdly admirable. It’s the way Jones has always been as Cowboys owner, of course: an indefatigable exhorter. It’s also dangerous for Garrett. "I don't want to look like they're [the Cowboys coaching staff] getting the proverbial endorsement," Jones said. "That's not what's happening, the vote of confidence. I want to say it the best I can. That's not what I'm saying. I feel good about our staff.” If Jones thinks the Cowboys are sneaking into the playoffs, he is mistaken. And that could, eventually, cost a luckless Garrett his job.


If the Golden State Warriors had flown out of Oklahoma City on Wednesday night with a 14th tick of the season in the ‘Win’ column, maybe Kevin Durant could have shrugged off the inevitable questions about Russell Westbrook.
But that didn’t happen. The Warriors were outplayed at Chesapeake Energy Arena and suffered their worst loss of the young season so far, hounded and eventually beaten 108-91 by the previously stuttering Thunder, for whom the “Big Three” of Russell Westbrook, Paul George and Carmelo Anthony finally came good together on the same night.
George had 20 points, 11 rebounds and an assist; Anthony was second on the team with 22. But Westbrook outshone both—and the Warriors’ starry cast, too—with 34 points, ten rebounds and nine assists. It was the reigning MVP’s best statistical performance of the season so far, a period defined by the Thunder offense’s inability to cohere for 48 minutes a night.
There was schadenfreude in the air, too. The Thunder crowd booed Durant when he was introduced before the game, and repeated that when he touched the ball. "It seemed pretty civil compared to last year," Steve Kerr, the Warriors head coach, said in quotes reported by  ESPN. "It was all good, and they deserved to win, and the crowd deserved to get the joy that they got out of this game." Skip Bayless, the Fox Sports pundit, piled in on Twitter. “FINALLY: Russ [Westbrook] and the great fans in a great city got some revenge over Kevin Durant,” Bayless wrote. “This wasn't about Melo or Paul George. It was about RUSS SHOWING AND TELLING KD.”
Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors, right, with Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder at the Chesapeake Energy Arena, on November 22. Westbrook outplayed Durant in the Thunder's blowout victory.   J Pat Carter/Getty
Durant, like Kerr, attempted to play down any deeper significance to a number of clashes between himself and Westbrook during the game. With just under six minutes to go in the third quarter, and the Thunder leading by 17, Durant and Westbrook went head-to-head. The  YouTube clip, posted by Bleacher Report, appears to show Durant calling Westbrook a “P***y.” “You’re soft,” Westbrook replied according to  ESPN. "The story is about the game. We lost. They kicked our ass,” Durant told  Anthony Slater, The Athletic’s Warriors reporter. “They played a great game. We should give them credit for how they played, and we should be better. It's not about who's in each other's faces. That stuff is not real, so please don't believe it. All the fans, they lied to y'all. It's about basketball, and they played a great game, and we didn't."
Kerr did admit that the Warriors “lacked focus” in the final game of a road trip that they split 2-2. It’s too tempting not to wonder whether all of the subplots, Durant’s rivalry with Westbrook chief among them, might have piled distraction upon weariness for Golden State. Durant has a ring, of course, and he will still probably be laughing longest and loudest at the end of the season. But here was a measure of something—call it revenge, or schadenfreude—for Westbrook and a city, for a night.


LeBron James received a kick in the rear from his coach and a head butt from an opponent. Then, he delivered a gut punch. 
James scored 23 points in the fourth quarter, including an 18-point run on his own, and the Cleveland Cavaliers beat the Brooklyn Nets 119-109 on Wednesday night. 
James, who left the game early in the third quarter to get stitches for a facial laceration, finished with 33 points, six rebounds and five assists. He was injured when Tyler Zeller’s noggin caught James in the mouth, sending him for stitches. 
How many? “Enough to close the wound,” James said. 
The Cavs led 100-99 with 4:25 remaining when James stepped to the line for free throws that sparked his 18 consecutive points. 
When James was finished—on a 3-pointer with 55.6 seconds to go—the Cavs led 118-107 and it was all over. 
“You’ve got to let it come to you,” James said. “It’s times when you wish you can do it and sometimes when the ball just doesn’t go in. But I put a lot of work into my craft and I believe that every shot I take is going to go in. But without my teammates setting screens and defending, getting the rebounds, cutting, and things of that nature, then none of that is even possible for me, so, they get the most credit.” 
Related: LeBron James sends ominous message to the rest of the NBA
LeBron James at Quicken Loans Arena, Cleveland, Ohio, November 17.   Jason Miller/Getty
Cleveland (11-7) has won six straight and is 8-2 since losing to the Nets on October 25. Kevin Love added 18 points and 10 rebounds for the Cavs, who also received 18 points off the bench from Dwyane Wade. 
Brooklyn took a 46-45 lead into halftime despite committing 10 turnovers that turned into 10 Cleveland points. 
James actually missed a dunk in the first quarter, in rare and embarrassing fashion. He intercepted a pass from Caris LeVert and was en route to a breakaway slam, but after whipping the ball around the air, clanged it off the rim with 3:49 left in the period. 
The Cavs were ahead 18-10 at the time and led just 20-17 at the end of the quarter. 
“He was messing around,” Cleveland coach Tyronn Lue said. “I told him at halftime, ‘You messing around.’ He got a little upset and that’s good. Get hit (in the mouth) again.” 
Rondae Hollis-Jefferson led the Nets (6-11) with 20 points. Joe Harris was one point off his career-high with 18 off the bench, and Allen Crabbe added 15 points. 
“I was proud of our competitive grit,” Brooklyn coach Kenny Atkinson said. “LeBron really took over. There’s no other way to put it.” 
Harris, who shot 7 of 10 from the field with four 3s, was taken in the second round of the 2014 draft by Cleveland, and he was on the team for its first Finals match with the Golden State Warriors in 2015. 
The Cavs traded Harris to Orlando in January 2016, to clear a roster spot. He was waived and signed with the Nets the following summer. 
“The enjoyment would’ve been if we won,” Harris said. 
“I think that it’s always nice coming back to a place where you spent some time. We have a lot of guys in the organization who have spent time here, a lot of good people in the Cavs’ organization. It’s good to come back and see some familiar faces and be able to say hello to people who you otherwise would not see.” 
The Nets led by seven in the third quarter when James left the game. He returned with 4:33 to go in the third, and had scored just eight points at the time. 
His 23-point fourth quarter was two points shy of his personal best 25, from when he scored 61 on March 3, 2014. The Cavs scored 42 in the fourth, one point shy of their season best. 
“He scored 23 in the fourth and we needed every bit of it,” Lue said. “When he came back, I thought he did a really good job of getting into the paint, playing downhill.”


Thanksgiving always seems like an opportune moment to evaluate playoff prospects in the NFL, and this year looks to be no different.
The league will present a triple-header on Thursday, including what looks like a game that could decide the direction of the NFC North and the Cowboys’ last shot at the playoffs when they host the unpredictable Chargers. Here’s how to watch all of Thursday’s games.
Vikings @ Lions
Probably the Lions’ last chance to catch the surging Vikings for the NFC North title and avoid a likely trip to the New Orleans Saints on Wild Card Weekend. A road win for the Vikings, for whom Case Keenum continues to impress at quarterback, would send them to 9-2 on the season, well within reach of the Eagles for the No. 1 seed in the NFC and home-field advantage throughout the playoffs.
Realistically, the Lions are chasing the Falcons with whom they share a 6-4 record but would lose out to in a tiebreaker. This Lions vintage feels like many of the previous iterations in the Matthew Stafford era: Dangerous through the air, but with a defense that probably won’t take it very far into the postseason. Stafford is piling up the stats—he scooted past Troy Aikman in all-time passing yards over the weekend. But will he ever quarterback a bona fide Super Bowl contender?
TV Channels/Live Streams:  FOX/Fox Sports Go, NFL Game Pass, Fubo, NFL Mobile, NFL Sunday Ticket
Start Time:  12.30 p.m. ET
Prediction:  Vikings 21 Lions 14
Chargers @ Cowboys
The Cowboys probably won’t have to run the table to make the playoffs from here but they don’t have much room for manoeuvre anymore. The 37-9 defeat to the Eagles at AT&T Stadium showed two teams apparently moving in different directions—one, possibly, towards its first Super Bowl and the loser contemplating having to leapfrog four NFC rivals to sneak into the playoffs as the sixth seed. The Eagles also showed up the Cowboys’ offense for what it is without Ezekiel Elliott: Limited. Alfred Morris gained 91 yards on 17 carries on the ground but he lacks ‘Zeke’s’ dynamism and cannot keep defenses honest for Dak Prescott in the way the former Buckeye can. Prescott had a horrible Sunday afternoon, throwing three picks and no touchdowns.
The good news for the Cowboys is that the Chargers are talented but mistake-prone as usual and seemingly just drifting along in the AFC West. The bad news? The Kansas City Chiefs’ midseason stutters mean that improbably, they are only two games out of the division lead. A team that has Philip Rivers under center will always be liable to put together a series of wins, so the playoffs haven’t disappeared in the rearview mirror yet for the Chargers. This could be a perfect storm for the Cowboys, too, who have much bigger problems at left tackle than at running back. All-Pro Tyron Smith may be able to play on Thursday, according to CBS. In his two-game absence, the Cowboys have given up 12 sacks and now they get to face Joey Bosa and Melvin Ingram, maybe the NFL’s most fearsome combination of defensive ends.
TV Channels/Live Streams:  CBS/CBS All Access, NFL Game Pass, Fubo, NFL Mobile, NFL Sunday Ticket
Start Time:  4.30 p.m. ET
Prediction:  Chargers 28 Cowboys 21
Giants @ Redskins
When the Giants and the Redskins come together it’s never futile, of course. But in terms of the NFC playoff picture, this matchup is essentially meaningless. The Giants have been flat-out miserable this year under Ben McAdoo, and the 12-9 win over the Chiefs last Sunday looks like an anomaly in a season that may yet cost the sophomore coach his job. In a scathing review this week, the  New York Post gave McAdoo a chance of being the Giants’ head coach next season, but only if he wins all four remaining divisional games this season.
The Redskins’ problems aren’t hard to figure out. Jay Gruden’s team has one of the NFL’s better passing offenses, led by Kirk Cousins, but the 31st-worst defense in the league in terms of points-per-game allowed. And Gruden may lose Cousins at the end of this season, anyway.
TV Channels/Live Streams:  NBC/NBC Sports Extra, NFL Game Pass, Fubo, NFL Mobile, NFL Sunday Ticket
Start Time:  8.30 p.m. ET
Prediction:  Giants 10 Redskins 17


After another 10-month spell away and a fourth back operation in three years, Tiger Woods is “pain free” and could be back playing competitively as early as next week.
That is according to fellow former world number one and friend Jason Day, who says it is the first time in three years that Woods is waking up without pain ahead of his return at next week’s Hero World Challenge.
Woods, who has not played competitive golf for 10 months as he recovers from a fourth operation on his back in three years, will be making his comeback next week at his own tournament in Albany, Bahamas.
“I did talk to him and he did say it’s the best he’s ever felt in three years, he doesn’t wake up with pain anymore, which is great,” Day said Wednesday ahead of the Australian Open.
“I totally understand where he’s coming from because sometimes I wake up and it takes me about 10 minutes to get out of bed. For him to be in pain for three years is very frustrating.”
Tiger Woods at Emirates Golf Club, Dubai, United Arab Emirates, February 2.   Francois Nel/Getty
The winner of five tournaments in 2013, 41-year-old Woods has played just 19 events since.
The 14-times major champion made a previous comeback at the Hero World Challenge last year after nearly 16 months on the sidelines, finishing 15th in a final field of 17.
He showed flashes of brilliance but struggled with accuracy. Woods returned to the PGA Tour in January but missed the cut at the Farmers Insurance Open before shooting an opening-round 77 a week later at the European Tour’s Dubai Desert Classic and withdrawing.
In April, he said he had undergone a fourth operation on his back in three years.
Australian Day, now world number 12 after a lean spell of his own with no wins this year, said the Hero World Challenge was the perfect tournament for Woods to make his return.
“With regards to him playing next week, there’s no pressure,” Day added.
”It’s an 18-man field, there’s no cut... it’s obviously a tournament that suits him, that he likes.
“He says he’s ready and I‘m hoping he is. From what he says, he’s been hitting it long and if he is hitting it long and straight, it’s going to be tough for us.”


Kristaps Porzingis is calling for the New York Knicks to take revenge on the Toronto Raptors on Wednesday night after their resounding 107-84 defeat over the weekend.
Porzingis was among the Knicks players who were off form at the Air Canada Centre on Saturday, shooting 3 for 13 while Tim Hardaway Jr. finished 5 for 11. The Knicks ended the game with their lowest field goal percentage of the year.  
“We want to get our revenge,” Porzingis said Tuesday, as quoted by the  New York Post. “They played great at home, we played bad and it’s going to be an opportunity for us.”
The 22-year-old forward says the Knicks are now a “playoff team,” a prospect that seemed improbable after the 0-5 preseason.
And Knicks have bounced back from the loss to the Raptors by beating the Los Angeles Clippers 107-85 on Monday night at Madison Square Garden. Porzingis scored 25 points on 7 for 20 shooting, and even outplayed Blake Griffin. The Latvian also appears to have accepted being the new face of the franchise.
Related: Lakers coach Luke Walton is "not concerned" with criticism from Lavar Ball 
Blake Griffin, left, and Kristaps Porzingis at Madison Square Garden, New York City, November 20.   Elsa/Getty
“The city is behind us. They love that we play hard,” he said. “I have a bigger role obviously, but I would say the expectations are lower than my first two years and I believe we’re playing above the expectations. So I don’t really feel the pressure.
“I enjoy having the pressure a little bit on and having to play through that and then doing what you’re supposed to. And even if it’s not there, maybe the pressure’s not that high, the expectation is not that high, it’s even better to surprise people and do something they weren’t expecting.”
And the Knicks are doing that. They are currently sixth in the East with a 9-7 record, and probably wishing the season could end right about now. 


Gabby Douglas is the latest member of the USA’s London 2012 Olympic gold medal–winning gymnastics team to say that team doctor Larry Nassar sexually abused her.
Douglas, 21, follows teammates McKayla Maroney and Aly Raisman in accusing Nassar of abuse. Her allegations came five days after she posted a response about Raisman's allegations and was accused of victim blaming when she said women should “dress modestly” to avoid “the wrong crowd.” She later deleted her tweet.
A representative for the gymnast confirmed to  USA Today that Douglas was also accusing Nassar of abuse, following a lengthy statement on her Instagram account captioned, "please hear my heart."
“I know that no matter what you wear, it NEVER gives anyone the right to harass or abuse you,” she wrote. “It would be like saying that because of the leotards we wore, it was our fault that we were abused by Larry Nassar.
“I didn’t publicly share my experiences as well as many other things because for many years we were conditioned to stay silent and honestly some things were extremely painful,” Douglas wrote.
Gabby Douglas at Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey, on March 5, 2016.   Elsa/Getty
Douglas, Maroney and Raisman were part of the "fierce five" that won gold at the Olympic games in London five years ago.
Nassar is currently in jail awaiting sentencing after pleading guilty to federal child pornography charges. He is due in court on Wednesday and is reportedly set to be jailed for 25 years due to a deal agreed with prosecutors.
Nassar’s work with the national gymnastics team began in 1986, and he spent almost three decades as an osteopath for the USA Gymnastics program. USA Gymnastics fired him in 2016 following several allegations of sexual misconduct.
According to the Associated Press, the 54-year-old former doctor will plead guilty to multiple charges of sexual assault and is accused of molesting seven girls—all bar one were gymnasts.
The abuse allegedly took place during scheduled treatments at his home in the Lansing area and at a campus clinic at Michigan State University. Similar lawsuits have been filed by 125 women and girls in neighboring counties.
A plea deal has a minimum prison sentence of 25 years, but a judge can set the minimum sentence to as high as 40 years.
The allegations say Nassar molested girls with his hands when they were seeking medical attention for sports injuries, some of which took place while parents were in the room. Neither Douglas nor Raisman has specified the details of their abuse as of yet.


Refusing to let his feud with the Ball family simmer, Donald Trump launched a new attack on LaVar on Wednesday morning.
In his first tweet of the day, the president launched a tirade apparently in reference to LaVar’s interview with  CNN on Monday, in which he again cast doubt on Trump’s repeated assertions that a telephone call with President Xi Jinping of China had led to the release of LiAngelo, LaVar’s middle son and a U.C.L.A. freshman, despite shoplifting charges. LiAngelo and teammates Cody Riley and Jalen Hill stole from three stories in Hangzhou, The New York Times reported on November 15. They have since been suspended from basketball activities indefinitely. “It wasn’t the White House, it wasn’t the State Department, it wasn’t father LaVar’s so-called people on the ground in China that got his son out of a long term prison sentence—IT WAS ME,” Trump  tweeted. “Too bad! LaVar is just a poor man’s version of Don King, but without the hair. Just think..”
Trump, who was on a visit to the Far East last week, met with President Xi and discussed the release of the players. On November 15, as LiAngelo, Riley and Hill returned home, Trump  tweeted, “Do you think the three UCLA Basketball Players will say thank you President Trump? They were headed for 10 years in jail!” The three players did thank Trump at a press conference later that day.
LaVar Ball attends week eight of the BIG3 three on three basketball league at Staples Center, Los Angeles, August 13. Ball's war of words with Donald Trump escalated on Wednesday morning.   Sean M. Haffey/BIG3/Getty
Trump’s very public acknowledgement of his own role, though, started a war of words with LaVar, the voluble Ball family patriarch, through the media. “Who?” Ball had retorted to  ESPN ’s Arash Markazi on Sunday when asked about Trump’s self-proclaimed involvement in LiAngelo’s release. “What was he over there [in China] for? Don’t tell me nothing. Everybody wants to make it seem like he helped me out.” Trump hit back on Sunday, tweeting that LaVar was, “Unaccepting” of his help and that he, “Should have left them [the U.C.L.A. players] in jail.”
LaVar responded on Monday in a typically pugnacious interview with  CNN. “If I feel nobody did anything; I don’t have to go around saying thank you to everybody,” he told Chris Cuomo. “Just because people say things [doesn’t mean] it’s supposed to be true. ‘Hey, I stopped them from [doing 10 years in prison]. Maybe we were doing some talking with some other people before [Trump] even got there.”
Eight minutes after likening LaVar to Don King, Trump sent a follow-up tweet calling the founder of the ‘Big Baller Brand’ an “Ungrateful fool.” “ LaVar, you could have spent the next 5 to 10 years during Thanksgiving with your son in China, but no NBA contract to support you,” Trump wrote. “But remember LaVar, shoplifting is NOT a little thing. It’s a really big deal, especially in China. Ungrateful fool!”
LaVar’s eldest son, the quiet and reserved Los Angeles Lakers point guard Lonzo Ball, had eight points and 13 rebounds on Tuesday night as Luke Walton’s team beat the Bulls 103-94 at Staples Center.


Luke Walton insisted he’s not concerned about suggestions that he and his fellow Los Angeles Lakers coaches are being “too soft” and “babying” Lonzo Ball after watching his team beat the Chicago Bulls 103-94 on Tuesday.
The accusations came from Ball's father, Lavar, in an interview with  Bleacher Report in which he said he didn’t have an issue with Walton but did have a problem with losing. The Lakers are now on a two-game winning streak while Ball became only the second player in franchise history to score two triple-doubles as a rookie last week.
“He’s been away from me too long,” Ball said of his son. “I see tendencies in his game—they’re trying to baby him a little bit […] They’re soft. They don’t know how to coach my son. I know how to coach him.”
Asked for his reaction to the comments at Staples Center on Tuesday night, Walton said: “Absolutely nothing. It’s not what we’re here to do or talk about.
“So we’re not concerned with what parents think of how we’re coaching the team,” he said, as quoted by  Lakers Nation. “We’re concerned with what’s best for our team and how we can continue to get better.”
And Kentavious Caldwell-Pope certainly helped the Lakers get better in this game, scoring 11 of his 21 points in the closing minutes as the home team rallied from a 19-point, second-half deficit to defeat the Chicago Bulls 103-94.
Related: Lakers hope to solve scoring woes by signing Mindaugas Kuzminskas—but who is he?
Lonzo Ball at Staples Center, Los Angeles, California, November 21.   Sean M. Haffey/Getty
Kyle Kuzma scored a game-high 22 points, Brandon Ingram added 17, Jordan Clarkson scored 12 off the bench and Julius Randle contributed 10 in a reserve role for Los Angeles (8-10).
Denzel Valentine shot 5 of 7 from 3-point range and scored 17 points to lead five starters in double figures for the Bulls (3-12).
Antonio Blakeney, on a two-way contract that allows him to split time between the Bulls and their G-League affiliate, the Windy City Bulls, scored 15 off the bench for Chicago.
The Lakers rallied to tie the score at 80 on a layup by Josh Hart with 9:32 left. Los Angeles finally went ahead 89-87 when Caldwell-Pope put back a missed 3-pointer with 3:06 remaining.
Caldwell-Pope followed with two 3-pointers that stretched the lead to five each time, and the Lakers kept Chicago from getting back within one possession.
Related: Lonzo Ball can't shoot straight and no one knows why 
The Bulls took their biggest lead at 61-42 with 10:29 left in the third quarter. An 8-2 run pulled Los Angeles within 13, but the Lakers didn’t begin to make a charge until Clarkson replaced Lonzo Ball and joined Kuzma, Randle, Caldwell-Pope and Hart.
The Lakers cut the deficit to one on a 3-pointer by Clarkson with 35 seconds left in the third quarter and then trailed 75-72 entering the fourth.
Behind double-digit first-half scoring efforts from Blakeney (15), Robin Lopez (12) and Valentine (11), the Bulls led by as many as 18 before taking a 56-42 lead into the break.
Blakeney entered with 4:58 left in the first quarter and scored 15 points in his first eight minutes, including 11 straight for the Bulls during one stretch, helping Chicago to a 41-26 lead.


Before the week that could save Michigan’s season, at least in terms of pride, the  Chicago Tribune gave the hornet’s nest a hefty kick.
“I am convinced that old Thing One [Jim Harbaugh] is the one thing the Bears need,” Bernie Lincicome wrote in his  column, an intriguing nostalgia piece crossed with personal recollection of meeting Harbaugh when he was the Bears’ quarterback, having succeeded the colorful Jim McMahon.
Harbaugh, as Lincicome remembers him, was personable and eager to learn—the opposite of McMahon, the Bears’ legendary Super Bowl-winning quarterback who Lincicome says called him a "creep."
Personable and curious—two words that came to define Harbaugh as an NFL head coach, when he led the 49ers to within a down of winning the Super Bowl and to an NFC Championship game. It was Harbaugh, of course, who gave Colin Kaepernick his break after Alex Smith got concussed midway through the 2012 season. What strange memories those are, both distant and vivid: Kaepernick, now suing the NFL’s owners for alleged collusion, torching and befuddling the Packers with his legs in the 2012 NFC Divisional Game at Candlestick Park. Maybe the 49ers would never have got within three points of the Ravens in Super Bowl XLVII had the lights not gone out in the Mercedes-Benz Superdome. But Harbaugh’s bravery, and Kaepernick’s revolutionary skills, perhaps should have brought the 49ers a Championship.
Head coach Jim Harbaugh of the Michigan Wolverines at Camp Randall Stadium, Wisconsin, November 18. Harbaugh's tenure has been defined by high-profile defeats.   Stacy Revere/Getty
Out of the reverie and back into the present. Harbaugh’s Wolverines have lost three times this season, each one of them hurtful. To Michigan State—ouch—in a low-scoring slugfest on October 7 in the Big House—even worse. To Penn State in a blowout away from home on October 21. And to Wisconsin on November 18, this past weekend, when it also lost quarterback Brandon Peters to a head injury. Peters was taken off on a cart and to hospital with concussion after he was knocked unconscious, according to the  Detroit Free Press. The  Free Press also pointed out that Peters was pressured on 13 of 25 dropbacks by one of the most fearsome defenses in college football. An injury was almost inevitable although Peters may yet play against the Buckeyes, according to a report on Tuesday by  MLive.com.
Almost three seasons into Harbaugh’s tenure as Wolverines head coach, and the games he has lost feel more memorable than those he has won. Like 2016’s double-overtime victory for the Buckeyes, that dropped Michigan out of national title contention, or the one-point shock by Iowa the same year. The Wolverines are a semi-serious proposition again under Harbaugh but it is clear that plenty of surgery is still required, especially for that offensive line that had Peters scrambling so often against the Badgers. This season is fizzling out: Michigan is fourth in the Big Ten East, heading into Saturday’s game, and unranked this week by the  AP. Its head coach likely isn’t going anywhere. But Lincicome’s piece was a timely reminder that the NFL still covets Harbaugh.


After Sunday’s resounding win against the Denver Nuggets, the Los Angeles Lakers seem to have turned a corner. They may be 10th in the West, but Luke Walton’s team has been among the best in the league on defense.
It is the offense that needs work—and, in particular, more players with the ability to shoot the ball. The fact  Lonzo Ball recorded his second triple-double on Sunday and helped  the Lakers to a win at Staples Center merely covered the team's otherwise chronic shortcomings.
But Walton and  the Lakers management have a plan. In order to aid their perimeter shooting, the franchise is considering signing free agent Mindaugas Kuzminskas, who was waived by the New York Knicks earlier this month to facilitate the return of Joakim Noah.
“The respect this franchise has for Mindaugas cannot be overstated,” Knicks General Manager Scott Perry said  in a statement. “His professionalism and work ethic were greatly appreciated by his teammates, coaches and the entire staff. The decision was extremely tough for us. We wish him nothing but the best moving on with his playing career.”
Related:   Lonzo Ball’s triple-double is great, but beware the Blake Griffin reputation
Lonzo Ball, left, and Luke Walton at Talking Stick Resort Arena in Phoenix on October 20.   Christian Petersen/Getty
And that may see him land in  Los Angeles. According to Ohm Youngmisuk of ESPN, the franchise is currently in talks with Kuzminskas. “The Lakers are keeping tabs on free agent Mindaugas Kuzminskas,”  Youngmisuk wrote. “According to sources with knowledge of the team's thinking, the Lakers, in need of perimeter shooting, are doing their due diligence and met with the forward recently while they evaluate their wing depth.”
But who actually is Mindaugas Kuzminskas, and how is he going to solve  the Lakers’ scoring issues?
He began his career with BC Sakalai in his native Lithuania in 2006, playing in the Lithuanian Basketball League and Baltic Basketball League. He spent just a year there before joining Perlas Vilnius and then moved on to Siauliai in 2008. Two years with Siauliai earned him a move to Zalgiris Kaunas, one of the oldest teams in the EuroLeague, and it was here that he made a name for himself.
Kuzminskas made the Lithuanian Basketball League All-Star team in each of his three seasons, and he was named MVP in 2010, when Zalgiris won the LKF Cup. He went abroad in 2013, signing a contract with Spanish team Unicaja Malaga. Over 36 games, he averaged 10.3 points, 3 rebounds and 1.1 assists per game, and he was signed by the Knicks in July 2016.
Kuzminskas made 68 appearances as a rookie for the Knicks but played just once in his second season before being waived. Now 28 years old, the small forward is a free agent and could be of help to the Lakers.
Last year, he shot 32.1 percent from 3-point range, which would be fourth highest in the current Lakers roster, behind Jordan Clarkson, Brook Lopez and Kyle Kuzma.
There would be one small hurdle to jump if the Lakers are to sign Kuzminskas, however. The franchise is currently at its roster limit and would need to release someone to make room for a new signing.  


Maybe you could say it was worrying that the Boston Celtics dug themselves another hole against the drifting Dallas Mavericks at American Airlines Center on Monday night. You could ask, rhetorically, how long a team relying on youthful exuberance can keep up these kinds of comebacks. You can argue—with righteousness—that 18 games into an NBA season isn’t long enough to make even tentative conclusions about what is going to happen in June.
You can’t argue, though, with two basic facts. The Celtics are on a 16-game winning streak and Kyrie Irving is proving to be more clutch than anyone except Kyrie Irving could have expected when he moved from the Cavaliers this past summer.
Irving was luminous on Monday, with 47 points, six assists, three rebounds and a steal in 38 minutes. Ten of those came in overtime, after the Mavericks had led 87-74 with just under eight minutes to play. The Celtics got another big effort from Jayson Tatum, the third overall pick in the 2017 NBA Draft, too. Tatum had 15 points, nine rebounds, a steal, assist and block. Jaylen Brown contributed 22 points and nine rebounds of his own.
Boston Celtics guard Kyrie Irving at TD Garden, Boston, November 16. Irving scored 47 points on Monday night against the Mavericks.   David Butler II-USA TODAY Sports
But both of those impressive youngsters are being led by Irving—the  leading he set out to do when he left LeBron James’s six-foot-eight-inch shadow behind in the summer. "I don't really see it as a pressure situation," Irving said of his late-game play. "It's just like playing basketball, man.” Imagining how the Celtics would have gone with Gordon Hayward on the court is futile, of course, unless you turn it around and suggest that Irving has had to step up to fill the void, both in scoring and veteran leadership. That is to say that the Celtics got more out of the trade than they might have done had their marquee free agent been fit to share the load. That Tatum and Brown might not have progressed so fast. Which isn’t to say that the Celtics won’t be even better when Hayward returns, and that is a scary prospect.
If the season finished at this point, Irving would have to be among the frontrunners for M.V.P., alongside James, James Harden, the Bucks’ Giannis Antetokounmpo, and maybe a couple of bolters like Kristaps Porzingis and DeMar DeRozan, the league’s best shooting guard and the best player on the Eastern Conference’s second-best team.
It’s a good job there are still so many games and twists to go, to ensure that we look completely wrong and silly by the time the Finals finish next summer. One conclusion that won’t be upended, though: What Brad Stevens, Irving and the Celtics are doing right now is damned impressive.


British businesswoman Amanda Staveley is behind a £300 million (about $398 million) bid to buy Premier League club Newcastle United, according to reports.
Staveley is involved with negotiations alongside her PCP Partners Capital group, a private investment firm, to buy the club that is based in the north-east of England and was promoted to the Premier League last season.
According to the  Newcastle Chronicle, Staveley, 44, has signed a non-disclosure agreement with the club ahead of an official bid, but was recently seen in attendance at St. James’s Park for a game against Liverpool.
After 10 years at the helm, current owner Mike Ashley said he wanted to sell the club and wanted the deal to be done by Christmas—but he is seeking a sale closer to £380 million. So, who is the multimillionaire businesswoman seeking to take his place on Tyneside?
Staveley was born and raised in Yorkshire, a county in the north of England. The daughter of landowner Robert Staveley, whose estate was bestowed to his ancestors by Cardinal Wolsey in 1516, Staveley studied modern languages at Cambridge University but dropped out after suffering from stress. Aged 22, she opened a restaurant with a £180,000 loan despite having no training.
The restaurant, Stocks, quickly proved to be a success, and acted as a meeting point for members of Newmarket's equestrian elite. It was here that Staveley met the ruler of Dubai Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al Maktoum, which sparked a relationship that would make her one of the most influential people in the region from outside the Gulf. Staveley closed Stocks and, in 2000, expanded her business by buying the Q.ton conference center at Cambridge Science Park.
It was in 2001 that Staveley first met Prince Andrew when she gave him a tour of the Science Park. The following day, Prince Andrew invited Staveley out for dinner and secretly proposed to her in 2003, according to British newspaper The Daily Telegraph. But the engagement is said to have been broken off due to the amount of media attention that would come with being the second duchess of York.  
Amanda Staveley at Anfield, Liverpool, April 22, 2008.   PAUL ELLIS/AFP/Getty
A 2008 profile of Staveley by the Telegraph, described Staveley as the “new Queen of British football,” such was her influence on some of the game’s biggest teams. Her working relationship with Sheikh Mansour of Abu Dhabi saw her broker his takeover of Manchester City almost a decade ago, while she also headed up Sheikh Mohammed’s unsuccessful bid to buy Liverpool. Staveley had reportedly been offered a seat on the board if the deal had gone through.
Staveley is reportedly awaiting a response from Ashley on the offer, but the current owner is said to be disappointed that details of the sale have been made public. PCP Capital Partners has been in talks with Newcastle for around a month but a formal offer has only just been made. Staveley’s firm would need to go through the Football Association’s “fit and proper persons test” for potential new owners of English football clubs, which has already been scheduled, according to  The Times.
Founder of U.K. sports retailer Sports Direct, Ashley bought the club for £134.4 million in 2007 and has experienced a turbulent reign at the head of the club. He has seen the team relegated twice and been hit with supporter backlash with fans calling for him to leave. Newcastle manager Rafael Benitez, who led the team to promotion last season, is said to have been kept up-to-date with details of the negotiations by the club’s managing director Lee Charnley.


For once, LeBron James was only partially responsible for a Cleveland Cavaliers blowout. And that’s probably a good thing going forward for everyone concerned.
James has been playing monstrous quantities of minutes so far in the 2017-18 NBA season, as the Cavaliers have battled to overcome a lack of consistency at point guard and some of the more serious defensive issues in the league. The 32 year old played a season-high 46 minutes for 39 points against the Clippers on November 18, and he hadn’t dipped below 36 minutes in any of the Cavaliers’ games up until Monday night.
Against the Pistons, though, James was limited to 27 minutes—still joint second on the team, behind stand-in starting point guard Jose Calderon. James chipped in with 18 points and eight assists but, unusually for this season, the Cavaliers got balanced scoring from all over the court. Kevin Love led the team with 19 points while Jae Crowder had 18. Calderon had 14 while Jeff Green and Channing Frye scored 11 and 10 respectively. By halftime, the Cavaliers led 73-46 against perhaps the biggest surprise of the fall so far. It was never even a contest. Having started the season 3-5, the Cavaliers have won five in a row to move to 10-7, a game behind the Pistons in the Eastern Conference standings.
That they look primed for another deep playoff run following that sticky beginning is largely down to James’ efforts. Coming into Monday night’s game, James led the NBA in minutes-per-game, with 37.9. Only the Milwaukee Bucks’ extraordinary, do-everything 22 year old, Giannis Antetokounmpo, is anywhere close to James’s average. Even after those 27 minutes against the Pistons—Tyronn Lue pulled him with 1.43 to play, with the Cavaliers leading by 37—James  still leads the league.
Not that James, or Lue, wanted to dwell on that topic very much following the conclusion of the game. "You [reporters] make so much a big thing about my minutes," James said according to  ESPN. "It's not a huge issue. But at the end of the day, when we can get a win like this, everybody benefits from it. Not just me. Everybody."
"I hear about that all the time," Lue said. (ESPN reported he sounded “somewhat perturbed” when asked about James’ minutes). "I played with Michael Jordan when he was 39, he played 37 minutes a night. Karl Malone was 37, played 38 minutes a night, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Magic Johnson, Kobe [Bryant]. Everybody's built different. If you're one of the greats, sometimes you've got to play, sometimes you get rest like tonight."
It’s understandable that the Cavaliers want to shrug the question away. But the implications for the rest of their season could be huge if they can find enough scoring not to wear James out before the playoffs. James may appear superhuman at times, but he will wear down like any other elite athlete. At least on Monday, Lue found a solution to preserve the body of the man without whom the Cavaliers cannot win a Championship.


The NBA’s Central Division standings show the Detroit Pistons at the top. The Cleveland Cavaliers sent a message on Monday who really rules the division until further notice. 
Kevin Love had 19 points, 11 rebounds and four assists, and the Cavaliers extended their winning streak to five games with a 116-88 romp over the Pistons. 
The Cavs took the lead for good midway through the first quarter and turned the fourth quarter into extended garbage time. 
LeBron James supplied 18 points and eight rebounds while playing just 27 minutes in the blowout for Cleveland (10-7). 
“I just wanted to keep the pedal down,” James said. “We haven’t had a win like this in a very long time. We come out sometimes in the third quarter and have a slow start and teams get back into it. But today, we just kept it going. That’s a pretty big step for us.” 
Jae Crowder contributed 18 points and Jose Calderon tossed in 14 for the Cavaliers, who led by as much as 39. Cleveland shot 52.5 percent (42 of 80) from the field and 48.5 percent (16 of 33) from long range. 
Related: Isaiah Thomas steps up rehab ahead of Cavs return 
“We just have been playing well of late,” James said. “We’re in a good groove right now, and we wanted to try to continue that coming in here today. They’ve been playing extremely good basketball, coming off a great win last night in Minnesota. We knew they were going to come out and try to give us their best shot, and we had to be ready for that. But we just had a lot of flurries. We had a lot of flurries and we didn’t stop.” 
LeBron James, center, and Jae Crowder, right, at Little Caesars Arena, Detroit, Michigan, November 20.   Gregory Shamus/Getty
None of the Cavaliers played more than 28 minutes, a welcome development for one of the league’s oldest teams. 
“It’s not a huge issue,” James said of his minutes. “But at the end of the day, when we can get a win like this, everybody benefits from it, not just me.” 
Andre Drummond’s streak of grabbing 12 or more rebounds since the start of the season ended at 16 games. The Detroit center was held to eight points and eight rebounds while committing six turnovers. 
Related: LeBron James won't stay at the Cavs if they keep losing, hints agent 
Tobias Harris had 11 points, and Stanley Johnson and Reggie Jackson added 10 apiece for the Pistons (11-6). Detroit, which has lost three of its past four games, had its six-game home winning streak snapped. 
“You just brush that one off your shoulder,” Johnson said. “It’s only one loss in the column. I thought we were playing pretty good before that.” 
Cleveland fired in 11 of 17 three-point attempts in the first half and opened a 73-46 lead. 
“For most teams in this league, there’s three, four, five of those games a year,” Pistons coach Stan Van Gundy said. “Tonight was one of them. We didn’t play well at either end, we made mistakes and they played terrifically.” 
The Cavs finished the first quarter on a 19-5 run to gain a 36-23 lead. James, who had 16 points in the quarter, started it with two 3-pointers. Love scored eight points during that stretch. 
Channing Frye scored eight points early in the second, helping the Cavs push the lead to 20 points. 
J.R. Smith hit Cleveland’s last three-pointer of the half during the final minute, and Crowder provided the 27-point lead with a pair of free throws.


On Monday night, Tyronn Lue will turn to veteran point guard Jose Calderon when the Cleveland Cavaliers take on the Detroit Pistons.
With  Isaiah Thomas still recovering from a long-term hip injury, Derrick Rose out for two to three weeks with an ankle sprain, and Iman Shumpert suffering with a knee problem, Lue has been forced to rely on the 36-year-old Calderon. But there has been good news for Lue and  the Cavs this week.
On Sunday,  Thomas stepped up his rehab. Despite being part of the sensational trade of the summer that saw him head to Cleveland while  Kyrie Irving went the other way, the 28-year-old is yet to take to the court in a Cavs jersey.
He has been recovering from a torn labrum in his right hip, but took part in an offensive drill on Sunday that he described to Cleveland.com as the “hardest I’ve run” during rehabilitation. He said afterward that it “felt good for the most part.”
Officially, Thomas is not meant to be available for the team until the new year. The two-time All Star’s progress will please Lue, but Thomas insists he won’t be rushing back.
Related:  LeBron James won’t stay at the Cavs if they keep losing, hints agent
Isaiah Thomas at Cleveland Clinic Courts, Independence, Ohio, September 7.   Jason Miller/Getty
“I'm protecting myself, so even if they wanted me to hurry back, I'm not going to hurry back, just because I've got a long career ahead of me and an important summer as well,” Thomas told  Cleveland.com.
“I've got to make sure I'm 100 percent healthy before I step out on the floor. But these guys have not rushed me one bit. They've taken their time with me and I appreciate that. Because most teams, they want you out there, especially if things aren't going well.”
So, for Monday, Calderon will stand in at point guard, a situation Lue fully expected. “We knew at some point we were going to need him,” the Cavs' head coach said, as quoted by  ESPN. “He’s a great veteran to have. He gives us steady minutes, and once he gets a feel and gets comfortable out there, I think he'll be great.”
The Cavs are up to fourth in the East after going on a four-game winning run that featured victories against the Clippers, Hornets, Knicks and Mavericks. Monday night’s opponents, the Pistons, may have been beaten twice in the last three games but they’re second behind the Celtics.
Thomas’s former team is on a 15-game winning run and leading the East with ease so far. His new team will be counting the days until Thomas is back.


If the definition of insanity is trying the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result (an oft-repeated aphorism of questionable provenance, one must add)—then consider the Buffalo Bills insane. Possibly.
By now, pretty much the whole of the football-watching world knows that the Bills and Sean McDermott made a personnel decision on Sunday that will go down as one of the more inept in modern NFL history. McDermott, the rookie head coach, benched his dual-threat quarterback Tyrod Taylor for another rookie, Nathan Peterman, for the Bills’ trip to the Los Angeles Chargers. Since the Bills moved to 5-2 on October 29 by beating the Oakland Raiders at home, their pursuit of an AFC Wild Card spot has skidded alarmingly into the long grass.
McDermott’s team lost to the Jets at MetLife Stadium, then got blown out by the Saints in upstate New York last week. To be fair to Taylor, who was under center for each of those losses, the latter result seems to be happening to most teams lately. Taylor’s insecurity may also be compounded by his status as one of the NFL’s harder-to-define quarterbacks. He takes care of the ball and makes LeSean McCoy a better player, but the knock on Taylor has been that he doesn’t take enough risks throwing the ball downfield. "Are you going to win a Super Bowl with Tyrod Taylor?" does feel more than a little like, "Are you going to win a Championship with Alex Smith?" Maybe it’s just a coincidence that the Chiefs, too, have hit the buffers in recent weeks. A “game manager” can be great, but every single facet of the team around them needs to be working well at the same time for it to contend.
That’s enough, though, of defending McDermott. Peterman turned the ball over five times against the Chargers, who led 40-10 at halftime. The fifth-round draft pick out of Pittsburgh completed one more pass than he had interceptions. The game already having disappeared into the distance, McDermott benched Peterman for Taylor, who promptly threw a touchdown and didn’t turn the ball over—albeit in a second half that was all garbage time thanks to Peterman’s nightmare. Hilariously, or tragicomically, the Chargers were so far ahead that they could take Philip Rivers out of the game and put in Kellen Clemens for several snaps toward the end.
Has McDermott learned, then, that a conservative quarterback might actually be a nice thing to have, especially when his offense is geared toward McCoy and the running game? Not really—it seems like the Bills could give Peterman another start next Sunday, against the Chiefs at Arrowhead Stadium. "This is about not only winning now, but also in the future," McDermott told  Joe Buscaglia of WKBW. Mike Rodak of  ESPN reported that McDermott planned to “evaluate” his quarterback situation before the visit to the Chiefs.
That doesn’t sound like he is certain about going back to Taylor. The Bills could yet blow a Wild Card place by sticking with a guy who threw five picks in his first game. Football can be weird.


“Blake Griffin is soft. Like the soft serve. You could put a chocolate coating on top and it gets even softer underneath.”
Those are the words of Raja Bell, a former NBA journeyman who later joined the Cleveland Cavaliers front office, in January 2016 as he discussed the Los Angeles Clippers' power forward. Accusations like this had followed the 2009 No.1 overall pick ever since he joined the team.
The perception of Griffin, over the years, was that he wouldn’t respond or retaliate to aggressive play. The only danger was he'd send a death stare in the direction of row Z. In 2013, Charles Barkley tried to give Griffin some advice. “Blake Griffin, I like you a lot,” he said. “You seem like a nice kid. [But] you gotta stop these guys from hitting on you. Shaq [O’Neal] is a perfect example. At some point Shaq stopped [and said], ‘y’all can’t keep hitting on me because I’m a big guy,’ and, Blake, I’m telling you now, you gotta say I’m gonna be hitting y’all back.”
And, after this weekend, Barkley might be inclined to share the same advice with Lonzo Ball. On Friday night, a scuffle broke out at Staples Center between Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Tyler Ulis in the fourth quarter of the Phoenix Suns’ 122-113 win over the  Los Angeles Lakers. But instead of Caldwell-Pope and Ulis, the focus after the game was on how Ball, the 20-year-old rookie, reacted.
Related:   Lonzo Ball can’t shoot straight and no-one knows why
Lonzo Ball at Talking Stick Resort Arena, Phoenix, Arizona, November 13.   Christian Petersen/Getty
A clip of the incident was published on social media, showing Ball turn his back and walk away from the scuffle while all of his teammates rushed over. Asked about what happened after the game,  Ball said: “It’s the NBA. People ain’t really gonna fight, so I ain’t trying to get no tech.”
Take a look:
 
Lakers-Suns getting chippy _ pic.twitter.com/eghvNqWfzO
 

Ball would rather the focus be on his achievements from the weekend, after he registered a triple-double in the Lakers 127-109 win over the Denver Nuggets on Sunday night. He finished the game with 11 points, 11 assists and a career-high 16 rebounds.
It was Ball’s second triple-double of the season, becoming just the second rookie in Lakers history to post more than one, along with Magic Johnson. His 16 rebounds are the most by a rookie this season and since 2000, according to  ESPN.
Ball’s first triple-double came during a loss at Milwaukee earlier this month. “This one is a lot better," he said. “I actually like this one. Just [need to] keep building on it.”
But Ball may also need to build on his reputation now. He wouldn’t want the league to think he’s a soft target—just ask Blake Griffin.


May 8, 2012, Anfield, and Kenny Dalglish’s Liverpool is looking for revenge over Roberto Di Matteo’s Chelsea after being knocked out of the FA Cup the previous weekend.
And they get it, resoundingly. Goals from Jordan Henderson and Daniel Agger followed a Michael Essien own-goal to put the hosts 3-0 up at half-time. Brazilian Ramires gave  Chelsea a pang of hope by bundling in from close range five minutes into the second half but Ross Turnbull’s poor clearance saw Jonjo Shelvey score from distance to win the game 4-1.
Why should we care about this now? But for an emphatic victory that may be remembered by those in the Kop there was little significance in the end for both teams. Yet this was the last time the mighty  Liverpool managed to beat  Chelsea at Anfield. Five years and seven attempts have all ended in defeat or stalemate.
The only survivor from both squads is Henderson. Agger is retired. Shelvey is at Newcastle, his third club since leaving Liverpool. Essien now plays in the Indonesian league after stints in Spain, Italy and Greece. And Ramires was one of the big-money-movers to China. The dugouts have seen six different managers since—two at Liverpool and four at Chelsea. Anfield has been a fortress for quite a while, just not for Liverpool when  Chelsea is in town.
Related:   Can Liverpool ruin Manchester City’s January transfer plans?
Jurgen Klopp at Anfield, Liverpool, November 1.   PAUL ELLIS/AFP/Getty
Klopp has actually rather preferred the reverse fixture. His was one of only two teams to beat Chelsea at Stamford Bridge last season in 24 games. The year before, the German orchestrated a 3-1 win in west London in just his second game in charge of the team. 
But this weekend the Blues travel to Anfield, once again. On Saturday, Antonio Conte’s title winners make the 200-mile trip north and they’re back to their formidable best. A 4-0 win over West Brom on Saturday followed the tactical masterclass against Jose Mourinho’s Manchester United before the international break, which ended 1-0.
But Liverpool, too, goes into the game high on confidence. The big criticism of Klopp’s team this season has been its inability to defend, examples being compared to Sunday league football. Yet that gaping hole seems to have been somewhat plugged. Only once has Liverpool defense been beaten in six hours of play, which came against West Ham when the points were already won.
Klopp also has a man with a point to prove in his team. Mohamed Salah was, possibly, the surprise package of the summer transfer window, deemed one of the more savvy buys. Liverpool was willing to pay a club £39.9 million (about $48.9 million) for the Egyptian winger, despite his less than convincing time at Stamford Bridge.
Salah ended up featuring just 13 times in a Chelsea shirt over two seasons after the club bought him from FC Basel in 2014. But he has been no flop for Klopp. Salah already has 14 goals in 18 appearances for Liverpool this season, reaching a tally by November that none of his teammates have managed in the previous two campaigns.
He is a completely different player to the one Mourinho discarded at Chelsea three years ago, but he will be keen to inflict defeat on his previous employers. It has been five long years for the Anfield faithful as well. They’ll be sat in the Kenny Dalglish Stand willing him to help end a record that lasts back to his reign.


Czech tennis player Jana Novotna, a Wimbledon champion in 1998 and 16-time grand slam winner in doubles and mixed doubles, has died at the age of 49 after a long battle with cancer, the Women’s Tennis Association said Monday.
Novotna, who entered the tennis Hall of Fame in 2005, died surrounded by her family in the Czech Republic, the WTA said.
In a career spanning 14 years on the professional circuit that included 24 WTA singles titles and 76 doubles titles, Novotna finally won her only singles grand slam at Wimbledon in 1998 after losing in the final in 1993 and 1997.
She won the hearts of fans around the world when she burst into tears after throwing away victory against Steffi Graf in the 1993 final when on the verge of victory and was consoled afterwards by a British duchess.
“Jana was an inspiration both on and off court to anyone who had the opportunity to know her. Her star will always shine brightly in the history of the WTA,” WTA Chief Executive Steve Simon said in a statement.
Novotna was a three-time Olympic medalist and a member of Czechoslovakia’s 1988 Fed Cup championship team.
“She always supported us from the stands when she could. We will miss her,” the Czech Fed Cup team said on its Facebook page.


You know that trope, surely, repeated through the fight game’s history of pugilists going on too long? Of the old warhorse lured out of a comfortable retirement by the bright lights—and the dollar, too, and that one final promise of late-career glory…
Yeah, so, let’s talk about Jay Cutler and how said trope applies to NFL quarterbacks, too. Cutler was the major casualty of the Miami Dolphins’ horrible 30-20 loss to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Sunday. The 34-year-old was taken out of the game at halftime and has been placed in the league’s concussion protocol, according to  NFL.com. Cutler, who was replaced by Matt Moore, had already thrown three interceptions and completed six of 12 passes for 83 yards when he was withdrawn.
A reminder that Cutler doesn’t have to do any of this, whether that’s throwing picks or getting his brain beaten around behind a leaky offensive line, or attempting to compensate, however ineptly, for a defense that cannot hold up its end of the bargain by staying off the field for any length of time. He could have been surveying the field from a broadcast booth as part of a three-person  Fox Sports broadcast team alongside Kevin Burkhardt and Charles Davis. Cutler only signed up to be an NFL color commentator in May, after he was released by the Bears. Then Ryan Tannehill broke and the Dolphins came calling with a fully guaranteed $10 million contract, plus incentives, and the chance to work with Adam Gase again and, well, it must have seemed a good idea at the time…
That the Dolphins have been icky isn’t all Cutler’s fault. It seemed the front office was planning for next season already when it traded Jay Ajayi, the Pro Bowl running back, to the Eagles at the end of October for a fourth-round draft pick. (Ajayi had a big day in the Eagles’ blowout of the Cowboys on Sunday, including a career-long run of 71 yards). It isn’t Cutler’s fault that only Ndamukong Suh on the Dolphins’ defense seems to be playing up to his talent level.
Still, Cutler hasn’t been "good," or even good enough to justify giving up the relative comfiness of the broadcast booth. He’s thrown 13 touchdowns against nine interceptions for a total QBR of 36.4, according to the statistics and metrics  ESPN compiles. That’s good enough for 27th in the league among starting quarterbacks, above Joe Flacco, C.J. Beathard, Brian Hoyer, Trevor Siemian and DeShone Kizer. Flacco apart—and he hasn’t really been all that good since the Ravens won a Super Bowl in 2013—those really aren’t names you want to be competing with for futility.
If Cutler were hoping that this season might burnish a legacy that flits awkwardly between unfulfilled and mediocre then it hasn’t gone to plan. It also seems unfortunate that up in the CBS broadcast booth, Tony Romo continues to be one of the best surprises of this year so far. Romo was also, pretty inarguably, a better quarterback than Cutler. Heck, he would almost certainly do a better job for a team now if he came out of retirement.
But then, Romo always was a pretty good decision-maker on the field. As Cutler contemplates a recovery from concussion, maybe there is a gentle lesson in Romo’s new career in learning how to stay retired.


Bring a spare pair of earplugs, because Donald Trump versus LaVar Ball is going to be loud. Like, tooth-shatteringly, earth-shatteringly loud.
The president spent much of the late summer and early fall feuding with the NFL and Colin Kaepernick over the issue of kneeling during the national anthem in protest of police brutality against minorities. But since that dispute seems to have gone down to a gentle simmer—and it wouldn’t be a Trump presidency without a very public argument involving U.S. sports—the president has now become embroiled in a tit for tat with one of America’s most famous basketball families.
To recap: LiAngelo Ball, the UCLA freshman, landed back in Los Angeles on Tuesday after he and teammates Cody Riley and Jalen Hill had been arrested and questioned in Hangzhou, China, on suspicion of shoplifting (all three have been “suspended indefinitely” by UCLA, according to a  USA Today report published on Friday). Trump, who talked about the case with Chinese President Xi Jinping when visiting Beijing last week, tweeted on November 15, “Do you think the three UCLA Basketball Players will say thank you President Trump? They were headed for 10 years in jail!” LiAngelo, Riley and Hill subsequently did thank Trump for their release in a press conference later that same day.
LaVar Ball attends the BIG3 at Staples Center, Los Angeles, on August 13. Ball has become embroiled in an argument with President Donald Trump.   Jayne Kamin-Oncea/Getty
LaVar, though, took issue with Trump claiming credit for his son’s release. "Who?" Ball asked on Friday in an interview with  ESPN. "What was he [Trump] over there for? Don't tell me nothing. Everybody wants to make it seem like he helped me out."
Sure enough, Trump fired back with his own retort on Sunday. “Now that the three basketball players are out of China and saved from years in jail, LaVar Ball, the father of LiAngelo, is unaccepting of what I did for his son and that shoplifting is no big deal. I should have left them in jail!” Trump  tweeted. He followed that up around six hours later with another post again suggesting that he should have left LiAngelo in jail. “Shoplifting is a very big deal in China, as it should be (5-10 years in jail), but not to father LaVar,” Trump  wrote. “Should have gotten his son out during my next trip to China instead. China told them why they were released. Very ungrateful!”
Almost lost in the brouhaha was another peak in a wildly inconsistent rookie season for Lonzo Ball, LaVar’s eldest son. Lonzo had his second triple-double of the season for the Lakers in a win against the Denver Nuggets at Staples Center on Sunday. Unfortunately for the quiet, studious Lonzo, it wasn’t the most noteworthy thing to happen to the Ball family over the weekend. LaVar versus Trump almost certainly isn’t over yet. Prepare for more bellowing, both literal and electronic, from two of America’s loudest individuals.


With the financial might that Real Madrid possesses, the club is used to getting its own way in the transfer market. But when it comes to Harry Kane, money might just not be enough.
The  Tottenham striker has proven to be one of the best hitmen in Europe, with a prolific record that compares to the likes of Barcelona’s Lionel Messi and Real Madrid’s own Cristiano Ronaldo.
Following Spurs’ 3-1 victory over  Real at the beginning of November, there has been increased interest in Kane from the Santiago Bernabeu. Former club president Ramon Calderon told  Newsweek  his successor Florentino Perez would be looking into ways Real could sign the England striker.
But it seems Kane is happy where he is. "My goal is to play my entire career only for Tottenham," he told German newspaper  Bild.
Related: Can Liverpool ruin Manchester City’s January transfer plans?
Harry Kane at Emirates Stadium, London, November 18.   IAN KINGTON/AFP/Getty
"We have a fantastic team, a great coach, a professional training centre and we're getting a new stadium. At the moment, everything suits me here and I'm happy."
Tottenham has been the main challenger to the Premier League champion over the past two seasons—Leicester in 2016 and Chelsea the following year. Pochettino’s team may wear white but, so far, it has always just been the bridesmaid.
The victory over Real was seen as a step forward for the team, ready to compete seriously in Europe. But it also brought interest from Spain in not only Kane, but also Pochettino and Dele Alli. Tottenham is a team on the ascent but many fear its impressive work could see the club dismantled.
Saturday’s 2-0 defeat to rival Arsenal was also a sobering result for the lilywhite side of north London. It pointed out Pochettino’s poor record away against the so-called “top six” that has included nine defeats, six draws and only one win.
If Tottenham and Pochettino are going to continue this improvement, they’ll need to hang on to the likes of Kane. Fortunately for them, it seems he’s going nowhere.


The January transfer window offers teams the chance to bolster their squads: either by buying the striker that will save them from relegation and propel them into the top four, or bring in the defender that will plug the gap in the defense and prevent them from sliding down the table.
But this year there are concerns in the Premier League that it may well spell the end for the title race. Many believe that it is already over, with  Manchester City holding an eight-point lead after just 12 games and undefeated all season.
Despite spending more than £200 million in the summer, Pep Guardiola has plans to make his squad even stronger. According to the  Daily Mirror, the Spanish coach wants to bring in Southampton center-back Virgil van Dijk and Schalke midfielder  Leon Goretzka.
Both players have drawn interest from a variety of clubs in the Premier League. Goretzka is out of contract in the summer and could be available on a free or cheap transfer, while Van Dijk even went to the extent of handing in a transfer request in the summer.
Related:   Is Paul Pogba back as Agent P for Manchester United?
Pep Guardiola, left, at Wembley Stadium, London, April 23, and Jurgen Klopp, right, at Anfield, Liverpool, March 4.   Julian Finney/Getty and Laurence Griffiths/Getty
With the like of Sergio Aguero, Gabriel Jesus, Kevin De Bruyne, Leroy Sane and the rest of City’s army of attacking players providing the goals, Van Dijk would provide the assurance in defense. An experienced head next to the continually improving John Stones.
City will face competition from  Liverpool for both Van Dijk and Goretzka, according to the report. Jurgen Klopp made attempts to sign Van Dijk in the summer, but the club ended up having to apologize to Southampton. But it looks like Liverpool is back now.
Klopp’s team is fifth in the table, and will be wary of missing out on the Champions League positions—the top four teams qualify for the most prestigious competition in European club football. Liverpool’s problem over the past few years has been its inability to defend, keeping just four clean sheets this season.
Van Dijk would, no doubt, provide a classy band aid to the back four at Anfield, and the rest of the league will be rooting for Liverpool. With Van Dijk added to the team, Guardiola’s City would be even more certain of lifting the trophy in May.


With their respective stadiums just five miles apart in North London, Arsenal and Tottenham represent one of the most bitter rivalries in English football.
For most of the last century, Tottenham—most often referred to simply as Spurs—has played underdog to its neighbor, Arsenal, only managing victory in 62 of the 193 matches played between the clubs.
But over the past two years that trend has been reversed. Arsenal, long the richer and more successful of the two clubs, has not won the Premier League—English football’s highest honor—in 13 years. Meanwhile, Spurs have seen a raft of new investment and a successful run that saw them finish only a point behind Arsenal in the 2015-16 season and a healthy 11 points above them last year, narrowly missing out on winning the league title.
As the hoardings that surround White Hart Lane—the Tottenham ground that is currently undergoing an £800 million renovation, prompting the club to play its home games at England's national stadium Wembley—boldly claim ‘There’s something stirring in North London.’
Related: Mesut Ozil Identifies Three Clubs He Would Leave Arsenal For—And Arsene Wenger Won’t Be Pleased
At the Coach and Horses, a pub just a few hundred yards from the stadium and the pre- and post-match watering hole for many diehard Spurs fans, owner Steve Brandon, 57, explains the roots of the rivalry between the two clubs.
“It’s simple, you are either brought up as a Spurs fan or you are brought up to be an Arsenal fan,” he tells  Newsweek, nodding towards a wall of the pub covered head-to-toe in Spurs flags. Brandon, who has been a season ticket holder all his adult life, says that whatever the individual fortunes of Arsenal and Tottenham, the North London derby— as matches between two regional rivals are dubbed in England—will be important: “It’s important to win and have the bragging rights,” he says.
Arsenal fans are rarely not reminded by their rivals that of the two North London clubs, Spurs was there first. Arsenal moved from South East London to Highbury, its former stadium in North London, in 1913, instantly creating friction with Tottenham. It is an animosity that has been passed down through generations: From the playground to the pub to the terraces when the clubs meet on match day.
In the modern era, it has been Arsenal that has dominated, going unbeaten against Spurs at home for 16 years between 1993 to 2009. At the peak of its success in 2004—during the club’s so-called ‘invincible’ season—Arsenal won the Premier League title at White Hart Lane, the ultimate insult to Spurs.
But over a decade later, the two rivals have been heading in opposite directions, with Arsenal only managing one victory over Spurs in the last six meetings. Tottenham is also exceeding expectations in the European Champions League this season group stage, having beaten back-to-back winners Real Madrid at home and holding them to a draw in Spain, while Arsenal failed to secure a spot in the tournament for the first time since manager Arsene Wenger’s tenure began 21 years ago. That failure only added to calls for his resignation.
The Little Wonder Cafe opposite Arsenal's Emirates Stadium in Holloway, North London   Will Thompson
Little surprise, then, that in the shadow of the mighty Emirates Stadium in Holloway ahead of the North London Derby on Saturday, the atmosphere is muted at best. In the Little Wonder Cafe, filled with Arsenal memorabilia including signed shirts and photos, lifelong season ticket holder Stephen Fagg, 64, is despondent.
“I think Tottenham have progressed, Arsenal have stood still or even gone backwards,” said Fagg, who has been watching Arsenal since 1966. “Spurs are a better side.”  
It is a painful thing for an Arsenal fan to admit, but Fagg sees Arsenal’s problems as running all the way from the top, with a chief executive who never leaves his office, a chairman who is more interested in making a profit, and the stubborn manager who refuses to listen to anyone.
Like many Arsenal fans, he bemoans the preference of part-owner Stan Kroenke and Chairman Chips Keswick to treat the club like a business, while doubt about Wenger at the helm remains a recurring theme.
At The Tollington Arms, voted "Best Arsenal Pub" in 2014, Kevin Herron, 53, echoes these concerns. He has supported Arsenal for 34 years since moving to London in 1983, and puts the blame for their recent performance firmly at Wenger’s door.
“Arsene Wenger has been there a bit too long, got a bit complacent. He’s too old, he’s past it,” he says, shaking his head glumly.
Herron, who lives on the doorstep of the Emirates Stadium, says not only has the life been sapped from his club, but fans are expected to pay more and more for the privilege of watching it.
For the cheapest season ticket at the Emirates this year, fans pay £891, more expensive than any other team in the Premier League; Spurs on the other hand, only charge £695 for their equivalent.
“They’re the most expensive tickets in the world but they’re not a world class team anymore,” he says.
Stubborn as ever, Wenger does not share the skepticism of the fans, insisting at a press conference on Thursday that it will be Arsenal’s performance on the pitch that should settle the question. But with Spurs stars Harry Kane, Dele Alli and Harry Winks all set to return on Saturday, Tottenham fans will relish the thought of terrorising Arsenal’s defence, leaving the red half of North London hoping to avoid humiliation yet again at the hands of their neighbors.
Herron, nursing a pint in the Tollington Arms, is not looking forward to the clash: “We used to turn up and smash Tottenham for fun, but the balance of power has changed in the last four or five years, big time,” he says.
“It’s always good to beat Tottenham but I don’t think we’re going to beat them this weekend. I have a horrible feeling we’re going to get spanked, not just beat I mean hammered!”
The Emirates Stadium, Arsenal's homeground and the venue of the North London derby clash with Tottenham Hotspurs on November 18   Will Thompson
Fagg, gazing up at at the Emirates stadium over his coffee, is a little more circumspect: “Time will tell,” he says, “but it doesn’t look good.”
If recent results are anything to go by, it certainly doesn’t. Arsenal’s domination of football in this section of London has been uncertain for some time, but Saturday could mark the final shift into a new era—one with a white heart.


It didn’t matter, in the end, that Giancarlo Stanton’s Miami Marlins finished six games below .500 in the 2017 Major League Baseball season.
Or, at least, it didn’t matter for Stanton on Thursday night, as he picked up the National League M.V.P. award for a summer spent slugging his way into the MLB record books.
Sport exists at the same time in different temporal realities, of course, just as individual feats and aims can diverge from the successes and hopes of the collective. So yes, the Marlins finished the season with 85 losses—good, just about, for second in the National League East, where only the Nationals ended with a winning record.
Stanton scorched 59 home runs, coming within one solid connection on the final day of the season of a mark that should not still be reachable by a mortal. In one collective sense, those homers were futile. The Marlins didn’t make the playoffs. But they would have been even further away without Stanton, whose W.A.R. (Wins Above Replacement) of 7.56 was good for fourth in MLB.
In fifth for W.A.R. was Joey Votto, the Cincinnati Reds first baseman who finished as NL M.V.P. runner-up behind Stanton.
“Votto is one of the three National League MVP finalists, and that seemed to catch some by surprise,” David Schoenfield wrote for  ESPN before the award was decided. “One national TV host was foaming like a rabid dog about Votto finishing that high in the voting, and not just because the Reds finished 68-94. You can debate whether the Reds’ bad record hinders Votto’s consideration for MVP, but you can’t debate his value on the field.”
If Stanton is a different case—an unsurprising M.V.P. winner on an average rather than a terrible team—then it’s mostly down to the visceral nature of his feats. Baseballs consistently launched with a rifle crack into the ether are hard for anyone to ignore, particularly if they have a live national television audience. Sometimes you can transcend your team by such a distance that their averageness makes you glisten all the more.
Giancarlo Stanton of the Miami Marlins in San Diego, California, July 11 2016. Stanton has been linked with a trade to the St. Louis Cardinals.   Harry How/Getty
It's not true, however, that Stanton is indifferent to the Marlins' collective achievements. He told  ESPN on Thursday that he wants the team's pitching to be "thoroughly addressed, not just somewhat addressed.”
The game’s preeminent slugger has also made no clear noises that he wants to leave Miami. But the irony at the heart of the matter is that the Marlins, now under Derek Jeter’s co-ownership and intending to slash their payroll for 2018, almost certainly cannot contend while lugging around Stanton’s giant contract.
"It's an interesting feeling and situation for me,'' Stanton said in that ESPN piece. "This is the only place I've known, but I also understand the business part of it. The direction that new ownership wants to go. They're feeling it out. We're going to try to figure out a plan here.''
The ideal, perhaps—or a version of it—would be for Stanton’s temporal reality to match his team’s. That means being traded to a contender, or a team on the verge of contending. One such destination could be the St. Louis Cardinals, who “officially discussed” a potential move with the Marlins on Wednesday according to  Jon Morosi of MLB Network  and Fox Sports.
“The Reds are wasting the Ted Williams of our generation,” read the headline of Schoenfield’s ESPN piece about Votto.
And that does matter, because when greatness is transcribed into annals and histories it requires a wider context than the cult of the individual. Or, to put it another way: it would be a damned shame never to watch Stanton playing baseball in October.


For the first time ever, Nigeria will be represented in the Winter Olympics after the women’s bobsled team qualified for the 2018 Winter Games in PyeongChang, South Korea. Driver Seun Adigun, brakemen Ngozi Onwumere and Akuoma Omeoga completed the fifth out of the five required qualifying races on Wednesday and became the first African team ever to qualify in the bobsled category, ESPN reported.
The all-female squad, led by Adigun, a former African 100-meter hurdles champion and 2012 summer Olympian, completed the qualifying races in Utah and Canada on Tuesday and Wednesday.
“This is a huge milestone for sports in Nigeria,” driver Adigun told KweséESPN. “Nothing makes me prouder than to know that I can play a small role in creating opportunities for winter sports to take place in Nigeria.“Our objective now is to be the best representation of Africa that the Winter Olympics have ever witnessed.”

Solomon Ogba, president of the Bobsled and Skeleton Federation of Nigeria, was thrilled with the team’s achievement and commended the women for their “personal dedication and commitment.” “I have watched them train and work hard to represent Nigeria at the Winter Olympics in a very technical and high-risk sport, and they have achieved that,” he said in a statement. “They should be very proud, and I am very proud of them.”
Bobsledding is a winter sport in which crews of two or four teammates make timed runs down narrow, twisting, iced tracks in a gravity-powered sled.
Driver Simidele Adeagbo, who is also from Nigeria, is two races away from securing another spot at the games for the country, for the Skeleton competition. Skeleton is a single-rider winter sport in which a person rides a skeleton bobsled down a frozen track while lying face down.
The winter Olympics will begin on February 9 and will be broadcasted live for everyone’s viewing pleasure across the United States.


With the international break over, Manchester United returns to Premier League action this weekend with Newcastle United the visitor to Old Trafford.
The old foes  José Mourinho and Rafael Benitez will go head-to-head once again in the dugout, renewing a rivalry made famous during Mourinho’s first stint in  English football when he was at Chelsea and Benitez at Liverpool.
While keen to beat his old rival,  Mourinho will be desperate not to lose any more ground on league leader Manchester City. Pep Guardiola’s team is already eight points ahead after 11 games.
After being hit with a lengthy list of injuries,  Mourinho believes the best of his team is yet to come. "We have the group of players which are the ones that we hope will recover as soon as possible," Mourinho told MUTV earlier this month. “I think we can go into this part of the season, the Christmas period, and after, in a strong position."
Related:   Jose Mourinho is left furious with England after the international break
Jose Mourinho at Old Trafford in Manchester, England, October 31.   OLI SCARFF/AFP/Getty
Among the long-term injuries were Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Marouane Fellaini, Paul Pogba, Michael Carrick and Marcos Rojo. So, after the international break, has that list got longer or will Mourinho have more to choose from?
According to  The Sun, both Ibrahimovic and Pogba could be available as early as Sunday. Ibrahimovic’s return would be far earlier than expected, having been out since May and not expected to return until 2018.
“He is a lion, he is a fighter,” Mourinho told  Sky Sports. “I think that is a good description of him, he has the anger all the time and that's the reason why he's almost coming back.
“As we expect, he's reduced the timing of his recovering and, as we were saying a few weeks ago, he will be back in 2017, which is a magnificent recovery.”
Pogba has not played since September 12 due to a hamstring strain, while Rojo has been out for seven months with an ACL injury but returned to action for the under 23s this week.
The fitness of Phil Jones is uncertain after he limped out of England’s 0-0 draw with Germany after less than half an hour. Mourinho criticized Gareth Southgate’s decision to play the center-back.
“I don’t think it is possible for a player with a problem to play in a friendly,” Mourinho said, as quoted by the  Daily Mirror.
“Of course, Phil Jones had a problem. He was having a problem for three weeks, he’s having problems that are stopping him to play for his club and then he plays for his club in extreme conditions [in their final match before the internationals] because it’s a big match against Chelsea.
“And then he goes to the national team and he comes home with an ongoing injury that everyone knows is an ongoing injury.”
Fellaini featured in the 1-0 defeat to Chelsea prior to the international break while Carrick has stepped up his training regime and may be in contention.


At Joel Embiid’s current rate of production, his contract could end up looking like the biggest steal in professional sports.
Embiid, the Cameroon-born center who has struggled with injuries to the extent that he’d played only 31 NBA games before the start of the 2017-18 season, exploded offensively against the Lakers on Wednesday night, scoring 46 points to go along with 15 rebounds, seven assists and and seven blocks.
As ridiculous as this outburst was Embiid’s post-game assertion that he is playing at 69 percent (and that is ridiculous mostly because it’s probably true). Also ridiculous: He’s earning less money this year than Markelle Fultz.
That is ridiculous but not odd, once you remember that Embiid was drafted only third overall in 2014, and the rookie pay scale has obviously steepled since then. He’s now in the final year of that deal, which will net him $6.1 million, according to  Spotrac.com.
Because Embiid can do the kinds of things he did on Wednesday night—he just hasn’t been able to do them with any kind of consistency since he was drafted—the 76ers gave him a league-maximum contract extension that could eventually go beyond $148 million, according to  NBA.com. Embiid will earn $25.25 million in 2018-19, rising to $33.33 million in 2022-23 before he becomes an unrestricted free agent.
So the 76ers—who look like they could be playoff-bound, sitting at 8-6 following that Embiid-powered win over the Lakers—find themselves in a strange situation with their multi-talented big man. If Embiid keeps having monster games like Wednesday night’s effort, and if he keeps looking like the NBA’s best center by averaging 23 points per game, then the franchise has an exceptional contract for this season and very good ones for the next few years. Had Embiid’s extension kicked in this year, he would be the 15th best-paid player in the NBA, in between Jrue Holliday and Kevin Durant. (Durant took less money than he could have to keep the Golden State Warriors’ core in place.)
Embiid will be, by some distance, the best-paid center in the league, ahead of the Charlotte Hornets’ Dwight Howard. That kind of money demands production, of course—not 46 points a night, every night, but consistent scoring over a long period of time. For all his brilliance, and the promise of more to come, Embiid has yet to produce while remaining free from injury over a whole season. The 76ers front office may be jumping around joyfully on nights like Wednesday, but it won’t be breathing easily until it has that kind of evidence for a much longer duration.


Lonzo Ball’s start to life with the Los Angeles Lakers hasn’t gone quite as planned.
After all the hype around the 20-year-old rookie—much of which was created by his father LaVar—Ball has seen one side of his game truly stand out, but for all the wrong reasons.
Ball, the No. 2 overall pick, has struggled around the rim. More than struggled, in fact. He is shooting 31.3 percent from the field and 25 percent from the three-point range, both the worst of any qualified shooter in the NBA.
The Lakers are down in 11th in the Western Conference with a record of 6-9 and currently on a one-game losing streak after being beaten by the Philadelphia 76ers and, in particular, Joel Embiid and his 46 points on Wednesday night.
Ball managed just two points, five rebounds and two assists, missing all six of his three-point attempts. And he only played for 21 minutes with coach Luke Walton deciding to leave him on the bench for the entire fourth quarter.
Related:   Lonzo Ball is nothing like the LA Lakers expected  
Lonzo Ball at Talking Stick Resort Arena, Phoenix, Arizona, November 13.   Christian Petersen/Getty
Speaking after the game, as quoted by Tania Ganguli of the  Los Angeles Times, Walton said he went to Ball less because he’d had an “off night.” Walton said Ball’s poor shooting was affecting the rest of his game but insisted he was, in most games, impacting in other ways by running the offense.
Ball has already addressed his rough shooting form, and says it’s a mental issue. “It’s in my head to be honest,” he said after the loss to the Celtics last week. “I know I can shoot the ball.”
Lakers President Magic Johnson suggested the team will have to address Ball’s shooting but will leave it until the offseason. “We’re not gonna mess with it,” he told  ESPN. “We’re gonna let him shoot and play his game. If after the season, he’s not shooting well, then we’ll sit down with him and say, ‘Hey, let’s maybe look at a different way or let’s try to improve the way you are shooting.’”
Ball was a 41.2 percent three-point shooter at UCLA last year. TNT analyst Charles Barkley described him as “half a player” because of his issues with shooting.
The bottom line is that Lakers have too much invested in the rookie to let the slide go on indefinitely. The only question is when they try to address the problem.


The head coach of any team, in any sport, is always tempted to play his best players the most—and the NBA is no exception.
Last year’s MVP Russell Westbrook is averaging 34.1 minutes per game this season, the second highest on Oklahoma after Paul George at 36.3. At Golden State,  Kevin Durant edges the most time on the court with 34.3 minutes over Klay Thompson on 32.9 and  Stephen Curry on 32.4.
Over in Boston, at the top of the Eastern Conference, the work is being shared out:  Kyrie Irving, Al Horford, Jayson Tatum, Jaylen Brown, and Marcus Smart are all averaging between 30 and 31 minutes per game. But that’s not the case in Cleveland where everything's clearly about one man:  LeBron James.
James is spending more time on the court than any of his rivals, averaging 38.1 minutes per game, whereas not one of his teammates is above 30 minutes per game. In six of the last 14 games he’s played, he has gone over 40 minutes. Quite understandable given his impact on the team but the Cavs are still ninth in the East. The Warriors' Draymond Green doesn’t believe that should be a concern, as the season is still young—but James isn’t anymore and the minutes could burn him out.
Related:   Can Lonzo Ball deal with the pressure of being a Laker?
LeBron James at Capital One Arena, Washington, DC, November 3.   Rob Carr/Getty
“I don't think anyone should be panicking 12 games in, or 13 games in,” Green told  USA Today.  “However, there are some glaring concerns with them. And at the same time, you're missing a 30-point [per game] player [in Isaiah Thomas] on the bench who's hurt. So my concern would be that LeBron is playing so many minutes right now.”
James is not only leading the minutes in his own team but the entire league. In his 15th season, this is the highest mark he’s reached since the 2010-11 season and Green says nobody should be on court so much so early.
“He's super human but eventually his super human powers go away,” he said, “so that would be more of my concern if I'm a Cavs fan or somebody with the Cavs or a player, is like 'Man, he's been playing a lot of 40 minute (nights) and it's only Nov. 12.' But I wouldn't be pressing the panic button just yet. At the end of the day, they know how to win. They've got a guy who knows how to win, so I wouldn't necessarily press the panic button. I would see certain things and I would panic about those certain things, just because…I don't think nobody should be playing 40 minutes a game in November.”
Despite their reliance on the King, the Cavs are on a three-game winning streak. Next up they face the Los Angeles Clippers at the Quicken Loans Arena on Friday.


Imagine a world where Jerry Jones is no longer owner of the Dallas Cowboys.
Odd, isn’t it? It doesn’t quite make sense—like a sentence without a full stop, a novel without a satisfactory denouement, a game that passes without Jay Cutler throwing an interception to a wide-open linebacker…
But it may yet happen. Jones’s feud with his fellow NFL owners and Commissioner Roger Goodell over the terms of Goodell’s looming contract extension has progressed to the point where certain owners have discussed the potential for removing Jones from his position, according to the  Wall Street Journal.
A letter sent by the NFL to Jones’s attorney David Boies on Wednesday described Jones’s conduct in repeatedly attempting to block Goodell’s contract extension, which is decided on by the Compensation Committee of which Jones is a non-voting member, as “Detrimental to the league’s best interests.”
That’s potentially concerning language for Jones, as it appears to tie in with Section 8.13 of Article VIII of the NFL’s Constitution and Bylaws, which states that if Goodell finds an owner, “Guilty of conduct detrimental to the welfare of the League or professional football," he can punish them with a $500,000 fine  or invoke the “Cancellation or forfeiture of the franchise in the League… If such occurs, the affected franchise shall be sold.”
That’s the “nuclear option” for the NFL first floated publicly by  Pro Football Talk on November 12 and picked up again by the  New York Post on Thursday morning. “Basically, if Jones ultimately doesn’t oust Goodell, Jones may need to worry about Goodell ousting Jones,”  PFT wrote. That piece makes clear that the prospect of Jones having to give up the Cowboys remains tremendously unlikely—or at least it did as of last Sunday.
Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones at NRG Stadium, Houston, Texas, February 5. Jones's feud with the NFL escalated on Wednesday.   Tom Pennington/Getty
Jones himself laughed off the prospect on Tuesday, telling  105.3 The Fan, “If somebody is asserting that [selling the franchise] or thinking about that kind of thing, they’re not knowledgeable on how things work in the NFL,” as reported by the  Star-Telegram. But it’s clear following Wednesday’s letter that tensions between Jones and the league are hardly at the point of de-escalation.
That raises the possibility—albeit still hazy—of who might want to own the world’s most valuable sports franchise? Jones bought the Cowboys for $140 million in 1989 and by October 2017 he had turned them into an entity worth $4.8 billion. You will need deep pockets, in other words—plus a whole load of intangible chutzpah—to take over the U.S.’s most-recognized, and perhaps most polarizing, professional sports brand. There is no shortage of Texan billionaires who might be interested, although it should be noted, as Bloggingtheboys pointed out in 2014, that Jones's line of succession passes down to his son, Stephen. Of course, if the 'Boys are sold then those succession plans will turn to dust. Perhaps more extraordinary than the likely price, however, is the idea that, one conceivable day, the ‘Boys may no longer be Jerry Jones’s property.


The so-called “top six” may be about to be split rather unevenly: On one side there could be a set of teams described as “the chasing five” and on the other, regularly over the hill and far away, Manchester City.
Pep Guardiola has grown comfortable in England. After a tricky first season in the Premier League, his first campaign in management without any silverware, the Spaniard’s work has come to fruition in a way that is dominating the league.
Just 11 games into the season and City is eight points clear of Manchester United, its closest rival in second. Guardiola’s team is already through to the knockout rounds of the Champions League, and has only failed to win just one of its 17 games this season—a 1-1 draw with Everton back in August.
Guardiola’s contract runs until 2019, which would see him at City for three years as he was with Bayern Munich after four seasons with Barcelona. Manchester City is believed to be just the third stop on his tour of proving himself to be the greatest coach on the continent.
But maybe Guardiola is enjoying himself too much in the Premier League.
Related:   Arsene Wenger is making plans for life after Arsenal
Pep Guardiola at the Etihad Stadium in Manchester, north west England, November 5.   OLI SCARFF/AFP/Getty
According to the  Daily Mail, Guardiola is open to discussing a new deal at the Etihad Stadium that would see him stay with the club past 2019: an ominous prospect for the rest of the league.
This season is expected to see Guardiola add to the 21 trophies he has won in eight seasons as a manager. That run has seen him win the domestic league in six of the eight campaigns, turning his team into the dominating force in both Spain and Germany. That trophy cabinet could see four additions by the end of the season with City still competing in four competitions.
City faces Leicester in the league on Saturday and also faces Claude Puel’s team in the EFL Cup in December. Guardiola is yet to learn who City will face in the FA Cup, and the knockout stages of the Champions League will be drawn after the conclusion of the group stages.
Manchester City will be thrilled to see Guardiola’s interest in staying in the north-west. But what of the new “chasing five”?


Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho is furious at the treatment of Phil Jones during his time with the England squad, according to reports.
Jones played 25 minutes of the 0-0 draw against Germany on Friday but had to be removed due to what  Mourinho called an ongoing injury.
The  United center-back is now unlikely to be available for the visit of Newcastle United to Old Trafford on Saturday, leaving Mourinho frustrated by Gareth Southgate’s decision to play him.
“I don’t think it is possible for a player with a problem to play in a friendly,” Mourinho said, as quoted by the  Daily Mirror.
“Of course, Phil Jones had a problem. He was having a problem for three weeks, he’s having problems that are stopping him to play for his club and then he plays for his club in extreme conditions [in their final match before the internationals] because it’s a big match against Chelsea.
Related:   Could Manchester United finally be able to bring back Cristiano Ronaldo?
Jose Mourinho at Old Trafford, Manchester, October 31.   OLI SCARFF/AFP/Getty
“And then he goes to the national team and he comes home with an ongoing injury that everyone knows is an ongoing injury.”
Jones is one of five key players who have been sidelined for United in recent weeks. Paul Pogba, Marcos Roja and Michael Carrick have all had long-term injuries but are on the verge of a return.
Zlatan Ibrahimovic, who suffered a knee injury last season, is still expected to be out until the new year. But it has become increasingly difficult for Mourinho to complain about this situation.
In October, Mourinho spoke about an observation that “other managers they cry and cry and cry,” a criticism that seemed to be aimed at Chelsea boss Antonio Conte who was frustrated by injuries and a lack of signings in the summer.
Conte hit back. “I think that, a lot of times, Mourinho [likes to concentrate on] what is happening at Chelsea,” he said. “A lot of times, also last season. [He has] to think about his team.”


The Italian Football Federation has approached Carlo Ancelotti to replace Giampiero Ventura as manager after the national team failed to qualify for the World Cup for the first time in 60 years, according to reports.
Italy was beaten 1-0 by Sweden over two legs, failing to score in 120 minutes of the playoff match which means the nation won’t be at the tournament in Russia next year.
Ventura, who replaced Antonio Conte as manager after Euro 2016, is still in the role but he is facing pressure to either resign or be sacked in the next few days. And his successor could be the experienced Ancelotti, according to Italian broadcaster Premium Sport, after the FIGC (Italian Football Federation) made contact with the 58-year-old.
Carlo Ancelotti at Parc des Princes, Paris, France, September 27.   Alexander Hassenstein/Bongarts/Getty
Ancelotti’s two decades in management have largely been spent in Italy, as coach of Juventus and AC Milan, where he won the Champions League twice and Serie A.
He left the San Siro and Italy for the first time in his coaching career after being appointed as Chelsea manager in 2009 by Roman Abramovich. He delivered the Premier League title and FA Cup double but was sacked the following year.
Ancelotti remained away from Italy, winning the Ligue 1 title with Paris Saint-Germain before winning a third Champions League trophy at Real Madrid in 2014.
His latest role came in Germany as manager at Bayern Munich. He won the Bundesliga last season but was sacked in September after a 3-0 defeat to Paris Saint Germain in the Champions League.
Taking charge of the national team may make sense for Ancelotti. He would begin planning for Euro 2020, which will be held across Europe, immediately.
But Italy is clearly not a weak team despite failing to qualify for the World Cup next year. Only last summer, Conte took the Italians to the quarterfinal of Euro 2016 and was only beaten on penalties, having knocked out holders Spain at the last-16 stage.


After Soldier Field witnessed a miserable defeat to a depleted Green Bay Packers on Sunday, some Bears fans have begun calling for the end of the John Fox reign.
Fox’s Bears may have had the more talented quarterback against the Packers for once and they had a defensive unit on the rise. They also had an extra week to prepare for the game. But none of that mattered and they still lost 23-16, and many of the fans have seen enough.
Fox, they say, has to go—and they have found a unique way of expressing this opinion. Across social media, many Bears fans have added a new avatar on their Twitter accounts, adopting the logo of the Firefox web browser by Mozilla.  
It was too easy for the Bears fans; a realisation that the logo reflected their view just perfectly, that Fox’s time at Chicago was done and that he must be fired. Now in his third season as  coach, Fox has a losing record of 12-29 during his time with the team, plus 1-5 against the Packers. 
 
Just my new favorite web browser.
 

The @ChicagoBears came out in the 2nd half of the season just like they come out in the 2nd half of every game under John Fox. Flat, unprepared, undisciplined. His in game coaching is the worst ever. #FireFOX #FireFOX FireFOX #FireFOX #FireFOX #FireFOX pic.twitter.com/I3fevBe7GF
 

While that run may not be entirely his fault, the head coach is usually the fall guy. But Fox’s position still doesn’t appear to be in danger, a view he certainly seems to hold.
Related:   Could Jerry Jones move the Cowboys to Canada?
“I’ve been doing this too long,” he said, as quoted by the Associated Press. “I’ve never worried about my job security, and I won’t start going forward.”
The pressure on Fox seemed to tell on Sunday, though, as he lost his cool with a line judge over a call. But for now, Fox would do well to stay away from social media to vent his anger. And if doesn't, he’ll probably be better off using Google Chrome.
John Fox at the Mercedes-Benz Superdome, New Orleans, Louisiana, October 29.   Wesley Hitt/Getty


Remember what happened the last time anyone entertained the idea of playing an NFL game on short rest?
It, uh, wasn’t great. The Seahawks and Cardinals scrapped out a pretty horrible contest in the Arizona desert; Russell Wilson got popped under the chin and went off for a concussion check that looked cursory at best and which the NFL is now investigating—ESPN reported on Sunday that the Seahawks  did violate the NFL’s concussion protocol by letting their quarterback back onto the field to orchestrate the win without giving him a proper assessment in the locker room. Other players on both sides also went down with injuries.
Oh, and Richard Sherman snapped an achilles tendon that he said was on the verge of rupturing already, but you know, may not have ruptured had the powers that be given him more than a half-week to recover from the Seahawks’ previous game, a bruising defensive slugfest on FedEx Field turf that can be sapping at the best of times.
You can argue until the cows come home, or until Tom Brady retires, about whether Sherman’s bravery or the NFL’s general attrition rate or the CBA’s banning of two-a-day practices leading to increased susceptibility to injury or a short week or a combination of all of those led to the loss of one of the NFL’s best, and almost certainly its most charismatic, defensive player. But it’s difficult to dispute that the debate around the future of Thursday Night Football is getting hotter as we pass the midway point of the 2017 season.
Ben Roethlisberger, the Steelers quarterback who could never legitimately be questioned for his toughness, said on his weekly radio show this week that playing games on Thursdays was “miserable” and “terrible.” “They need to get rid of this game, I think,” Roethlisberger said in quotes reported by  Jeremy Fowler of  ESPN. “I’m sure everyone who’s played on Thursday night would say the same thing. You’ve got to let your body recover a bit.”
Everyone who has played on Thursday night, maybe, but not Jerry Jones who has never played an NFL game on a Thursday night. The Dallas Cowboys owner—currently engaged in a drag-out fight with his fellow owners and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell—told 105.3 The Fan that his Cowboys are fine playing on short rest. “Not one shred of statistics show that to be a disadvantage, inordinately challenging physically for the players,” Jones said in quotes reported by the  Star-Telegram. “We’re the poster child of playing on Thursday and, as a result, what it does to the demand for players being rested or being healthy.”
If Sherman’s injury didn’t make the NFL take notice, then Roethlisberger’s comments probably aren’t going to have any effect either. Still, if Thursday night games aren’t facing an existential crisis yet, then it’s clear that the debate over their essential safety isn’t going away anytime fast.


When Gregg Popovich speaks about President Donald Trump, people tend to listen—and, indeed, it seems many decide to respond, too.
Popovich, a 1970 graduate of the Air Force Academy who served five years, has been a frequent critic of the president since he took office in January, describing him as a “soulless coward” and calling “our country an embarrassment to the world.” The  San Antonio Spurs coach is not afraid of taking a pop.
He has made clear his belief that  Trump is a liar and divisive. Many listeners and readers take the time to write to the 68-year-old, some messages of support and others of criticism.  Popovich says he reads everything and tries to respond to them all.
“It takes time because there's a lot of letters,” he said, as quoted by  ESPN. “But the only ones I don't respond to are the ones that are so courageous in their negativity that there's no address, just comments. That's hard to respond to. But there are people who have responded and disagreed, and say, 'Why?' And it's erudite and intelligible. [And I'm like], 'Yeah, you've got a point.' Those people deserve to be written back. So, I try. I probably won't get them all, but I try.”
Related:   Warriors want Popovich for president, not Donald Trump
Gregg Popovich at Staples Center, Los Angeles, California, February 24.   Harry How/Getty
Asked whether he received a negative reaction from supporters on his political opinions, Popovich joked: “Oh, no, no, no. Every single person has agreed with everything I've said. I get flowers. I get trinkets and gifts.” He added: “Just as you would expect: A little bit of both, right? A lot of both.”
Popovich gave an insight into the kind of messages he had received by suggesting that many didn’t have the kind of western beliefs typical of the United States. But Popovich also explained that he was left more with a feeling of hopefulness after reading the letters.  
“Some responses make you wonder what country you live in, and other responses make you very hopeful,” he said. “But there's a lot more hopeful than, 'My gosh, how did this person come up with this?' So overall, it renews my feeling that something can be done because there are enough people willing to listen and feel and compromise.”
Popovich, according to some high-profile figures in the NBA, should be president instead of Trump. Last month, Golden State Warriors coach Steve Kerr said “he would make a great president.” Steph Curry added: “He’s great for the NBA and would be even better for the country, probably.”
For now, Popovich’s concern is the league. The Spurs are third in the Western Conference with a 9-5 record and on a two-game winning streak, and play the Minnesota Timberwolves on Wednesday.


On Thursday night at TD Garden the NBA’s apparently unstoppable winning streak meets the league’ provably unstoppable offense, when the Boston Celtics host the Golden State Warriors.
Already—and yes, almost certainly prematurely—it feels like a preview of the NBA Finals. The Houston Rockets may yet have lots to say to that in opposition, but their defensive problems were exposed by the Raptors on Tuesday in an eye-opening 129-113 defeat at Toyota Center that snapped a six-game winning streak. It has to be a worry for the Rockets that James Harden can produce 38 points, 11 assists and six rebounds and still end up on the losing side—comprehensively so—against a very good, not-quite-great, team. “Each one of their [the Raptors’] sets down the stretch was run to attack Harden’s statuesque defence,” the  Raptors HQ  blog wrote in its postgame wrapup. Which is to say, the Rockets may have the leading M.V.P. candidate as of November 15, 2017 but they remain unbalanced in the direction of a pyrotechnic offense.
The same cannot be said of the Warriors—or the Celtics. The NBA champions, who have shot to 11-3 after a sluggish start, possess the league’s best offense with an average of 119.57 points per game. The Celtics, meanwhile, extended their streak to 13 wins in a row on Tuesday night by beating the Brooklyn Nets in New York City. Kyrie Irving, returning after missing a game with a minor facial fracture and playing in a mask, scored 25 points and was met throughout by chants of “M.V.P.,” according to  ESPN. For all of the offensive punch that Irving has added, though, it’s the Celtics’ team-orientated defensive efforts that have helped Brad Stevens’s team to the NBA’s best record after 15 games. The Celtics rank first in the league in defensive efficiency, giving up 94.5 ppg according to  ESPN. Irving, in particular, has surprised many reasoned observers with his efforts on defense so far this season. He no longer looks so much like the lavishly gifted but defensively fallible foil to LeBron James that he was in Cleveland.
LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers, left, with Stephen Curry in Cleveland, Ohio, June 16 2015. The Cavaliers and Warriors have played the past three NBA Finals.   Ezra Shaw/Getty
The Celtics’ early-season excellence has caught the attention of Steve Kerr, the Warriors head coach. "It sure looks like Boston is the team of the future in the East, with the assets that they still have and their young talent and their coaching, and Kyrie [Irving] is amazing," Kerr said after practice on Tuesday in quotes reported by  ESPN.
You could, if you so wished, interpret it as a tangential dig at James’s Cavaliers, who have spluttered to a 7-7 record and sit in the middle of a collection of fringe playoff contenders, at best, in the East. Or you could conclude that there is more realism than snarkiness to Kerr’s comments. It is a fact lost on no one, least of all James, that the Cavaliers have been abysmal defensively so far this season, ranking above only the Nets and the Phoenix Suns in average ppg allowed. With James able to test free agency in the summer of 2018, with Isaiah Thomas still recuperating from hip problems and with a starry but old or infirm supporting cast—Dwyane Wade and Derrick Rose have been problems this season as well as solutions—it feels like without James’s transcendence, the Cavaliers could slip back into the pack. So—again, perhaps a premature conclusion that will return to haunt us—Thursday night in Boston has the feeling of a shift in the NBA’s long-established order.


Cristiano Ronaldo has dropped another bombshell at Real Madrid by telling president Florentino Perez he is “angry” and wants to leave, according to reports.
The four-time Ballon d’Or winner was reportedly looking to leave the  Santiago Bernabeu in the summer after being accused of tax evasion in Spain. The possibility of a return to  Manchester United was considered.
Ronaldo stayed and has a contract until 2021, but now it seems increasingly unlikely that the 32-year-old will remain at the club that long.
According to Edu Aguirre, the Spanish journalist who works for  TV station El Chiringuito, Ronaldo has already told Perez that he wants to leave the club and for a “reasonable price.”
The Portuguese forward believes he is under-appreciated in the Spanish capital, Aguirre says, and is ready to depart after eight years at the club.
Related:   Has Jose Mourinho already given up on Manchester United?
Cristiano Ronaldo at the Santiago Bernabeu stadium, Madrid, Spain, November 5.   GABRIEL BOUYS/AFP/Getty
Ronaldo joined Real from  Manchester United in 2009 for a then-world record £80 million fee (about $105 million), and went on to battle with Barcelona’s Lionel Messi for the position of the best player in the world.
Ronaldo has won two La Liga titles and three Champions League trophies at the Bernabeu, but has had a tough start to the new season. He has scored just one goal in seven league games while Messi is already on 12.
Reports throughout the summer suggested Ronaldo could return to Old Trafford, where he made a name for himself as a skilfully fast and prolific winger.
Almost a decade on and Ronaldo’s style has changed with age. But fellow countryman  Jose Mourinho, the United manager, has worked with Ronaldo already.
Mourinho was manager at the Bernabeu from 2010 through 2013, leading Ronaldo and Real to one of the two league titles Ronaldo has won at the club. At a reasonable price, Mourinho may be tempted to bring him back to England.
And with Manchester City leading the Premier League table by eight points already, it could be Mourinho’s last move to challenge for the title.


Arsene Wenger is considering taking up international management after leaving Arsenal which could see him lead a nation to the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, according to reports.  
The  Arsenal manager, who is the current longest serving manager in the Premier League by far after 21 years at the club, is now contemplating the next stage of his career.
Some fans at the Emirates Stadium wanted to see the 2016/17 season be Wenger’s last after failing to qualify for the Champions League, but the Frenchman signed a new two-year deal.
At 68, it may end up being  Wenger who decides when he leaves the club. Asked whether he could manage at the 2022 World Cup, he told  beIN Sports : “Maybe, you never know.”
Related:   Chelsea has double transfer swoop lined up for January  
Arsene Wenger at The Emirates Stadium, London, November 2.   BEN STANSALL/AFP/Getty
For now, Wenger says he enjoys the constant interaction and work that comes with managing at a club rather than international level, so he is likely to see out his contract at Arsenal.
“Four or five weeks [at the World Cup] is a different experience, it’s more concentrated,” he said.
“But I believe the real experience to manage a team is on a daily basis, I will not always have the physical strength to do that so maybe I will move into that.
“Maybe yes, I will do it at some stage but until now I like to be involved every day in the life of a club, you know because the real test is there.”
Wenger’s Arsenal has won the FA Cup in three of the last four seasons, but a failure to truly challenge for the Premier League title has seen many fans lose faith.
Arsenal did finish second in the league in 2016, but only thanks to a late implosion from rival club Tottenham Hotspur—Wenger’s team was too slow for Claudio Ranieri’s champion Leicester City.
This season, not much has changed. Arsenal is sixth in the Premier League table, last out of the top six clubs in English football, and may face a tough transfer window in the new year.
Alexis Sanchez could leave for a low sum as his contract expires at the end of the season, which is also the case for German playmaker  Mesut Ozil. Ozil is expected to sign a new deal while Sanchez looks likely to join league leader Manchester City.


It’s time for a mid-November hoops scouting report on the Ball brothers of Los Angeles: UCLA freshman LiAngelo Ball is bad at stealing and Lakers rookie Lonzo Ball is bad at shooting.
Last week, Bruin LiAngelo, who is 6’5," was arrested in China, along with 6’10” teammates Cody Riley and Jalen Hill, after the trio allegedly pilfered sunglasses from a Louis Vuitton retail outlet in the city of Hangzhou. (What made them stand out to store security?)
On Monday night, 6’6” Lonzo shot three for 10 from the field in a Lakers’ win at Phoenix to maintain his position as the lowest-rated shooter, in terms of percentage, in the NBA (31.3%). He Got Game, meet He Got Lame. Or more to the point, He Got Fame.
(from left) Lonzo Ball, LaMelo Ball, LiAngelo Ball and LaVar Ball attend Melo Ball's 16th Birthday on September 2, 2017 in Chino, California.   Joshua Blanchard/Getty Images for Crosswalk Productions
In the past week, while the Balls were making news on either side of the Pacific Rim without being able to consistently locate a specific rim, the family garnered more of what it values most: celebrity. There is already a Facebook reality series, “Ball In The Family,” though a better title may be “Creeping Up On The Kardashians.” On Saturday Night Live, Kenan Thompson impersonated the family patriarch, LaVar Ball, on “Weekend Update,” promoting a new shoe, the “Legendo 20,” in which each sneaker would cost $700,000. “You can only buy them one at a time.”
Parody depends upon hyperbole, of course, but then LaVar’s family business, Big Baller Brand, actually does offer a shoe, the ZO2 Prime Remix, for $695. That’s three times as expensive as the priciest Nike Air Jordan on the market. LaVar, who averaged two points per game at Washington State, has brazenly proclaimed that he could beat that shoe’s namesake in a one-on-one contest.
That’s because truth does not matter to LaVar Ball, only sound bytes do. (Sound like anyone else you know?) After Lonzo scored three points on one-for-six shooting in his NBA debut last month, LaVar hijacked ESPN SportsCenter to mansplain that his eldest son had a “great night.” It may only be a matter of time before Big Baller Brand sells shovels and knee-high waders.

To be fair, LaVar’s progeny (a third sibling, 16-year-old LaMelo, is being home-schooled), are legitimate prodigies. Over the weekend, Lonzo became the youngest player in NBA history to record a triple-double. Last season, LiAngelo averaged 33 points per game at Chino Hills High School, in California, and LaMelo once scored 92 points in a game for that same Chino Hills squad.
Moreover, it is not Lonzo’s, LiAngelo’s or LaMelo’s fault that their pops is a summa cum laude graduate of the Trump University school of attention whoredom, or that, when it came to naming them, LaVar must have been binge-watching Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. Lonzo, who just turned 20 a few weeks ago, is already well-versed in pro-speak. After being benched for the entire fourth quarter of the Lakers’ 100-93 win on Monday evening, Lonzo said, “We got a win so I got no complaints.”
Meanwhile, teammate and fellow rookie Kyle Kuzma, whom the Lakers selected with the 27th pick in last summer’s NBA draft—25 spots behind Lonzo—is averaging four more points per game in nearly identical minutes. The most delightful aspect of Kuzma’s game is that no one knows who the hell his father is.

Purely as a shooter, Lonzo is not having a ball. He ranks 124, or dead last, in the NBA among in field-goal percentage as well as dead last (140th) in three-point field-goal percentage. Two weeks ago against Portland he played 28 minutes and finished with zero points; the last time a top-five draft pick played that many minutes and went scoreless was 1992 (Dikembe Mutombo).
“He’s been shooting that way his whole life...so we’re not gonna mess with it,” says Lakers general manager Magic Johnson, who earned five championship rings and induction into the Basketball Hall of Fame with an aesthetically frightful jump shot. “If after the season he's not shooting well, then we'll sit down with him and say, 'Hey, let's maybe look at this a different way.”
Lonzo’s problems are mechanical; LiAngelo’s were criminal, at least until the President of the United States intervened. Donald Trump, who just happened to be visiting Asia when the Vuitton larceny went down, asked his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, to do him a solid by dropping the charges. (Give LiAngelo and his pals this: they have impeccable timing.) By Tuesday morning the three Bruin players were on a flight headed back to California, but not before legendary Bruin great Bill Walton shamed them publicly.
Lonzo Ball #2 of the Los Angeles Lakers moves the ball past Tyler Ulis #8 of the Phoenix Suns during the first half of the NBA game at Talking Stick Resort Arena on November 13, 2017 in Phoenix, Arizona.   Christian Petersen/Getty Images
Walton, an outspoken and unfiltered broadcaster, happened to be calling UCLA’s game against Georgia Tech in Hangzhou on Saturday. A devoted pupil of his UCLA coach, John Wooden, who developed the “pyramid of success,” Walton lashed out on the Bruin trio’s pyramid of excess, teeing off his rant at the opening tipoff:
“I am sad, disappointed and embarrassed. This is a very big deal. The noble purpose here has been stained. Our hosts...have done everything right to make this all work. Now, members of our family have displayed an appalling lack of honor, lack of decency, lack of respect, by doing something in someone else’s home that they would never do in their own. And I want to apologize right now on behalf of the human race for this travesty.”
Walton’s son, Luke, by the way, is the Lakers’ head coach. Lonzo’s coach.
“Y’all couldn’t steal nothing!”This clip of LaVar & LiAngelo Ball from their reality show #ballinthefamily is so much funnier now.Via @Ananth_Pandian pic.twitter.com/rVtrwU4Ker
LiAngelo’s arrest left his father speechless, but not for long. Initially LaVar said that he was unable to talk due to “the legal nature of the matter,” but the reality show must go on. Before the weekend was out, before his middle son had been excused from house arrest by the clemency of Chinese president Xi, LaVar told ESPN, “Everyone’s making it a big deal. It ain’t that big a deal.”
LiAngelo Ball is bad at stealing. Lonzo Ball is bad at shooting. And LaVar Ball is forever unable to provide an assist.


There seems to be only one likely winner from Jerry Jones’s decision to take on Roger Goodell and the NFL. And it isn’t the Dallas Cowboys owner.
On Monday, The New York Times reported that several NFL team owners have given Jones, the 75-year-old Californian oil billionaire who bought the Cowboys in February 1989, a “cease and desist warning” as he seeks to block a contract extension for NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell. “The warning to Jones, which was issued by the six owners on the N.F.L. compensation committee after the group held a conference call Monday, comes less than two weeks after he threatened to sue the league and the owners on the committee who have been working for months on a new contract for Goodell,” Ken Belson wrote.
In particular, Jones appears to have irritated Arthur Blank, the Atlanta Falcons owner who chairs the compensation committee that decides the terms of Goodell’s contract. Jones’s threat to sue the other six members of the committee has already seen him thrown out of the group, while Blank responded on Monday with a statement saying, “The committee is continuing its work towards finalizing a contract extension with the commissioner.” “Rather than impede Goodell’s contract extension, Jones has all but ensured it’s going to get done,” Nancy Armour wrote in  USA Today on Monday.
Jones’s power-play could have devastating implications. A  Pro Football Talk piece published on Sunday evening mentioned a so-called “nuclear option” that NFL owners opposed to Jones could take should they find him “Guilty of conduct detrimental to the welfare of the League or professional football.” (Section 8.13 of the NFL’s Constitution and Bylaws). The first option in that case would be a $500,000 fine, but if Goodell deems Jones’s conduct deserving of further punishment then the Cowboys franchise could be “cancelled,” according to league rules, essentially forcing Jones to sell his baby.
That seems  highly unlikely, not least because as much as Jones may be annoying his fellow owners and Goodell, the NFL needs the Cowboys to remain a financial behemoth.  Forbes valued the team at $4.8 billion in October 2017, $1.1 billion million more than the New England Patriots, the NFL’s second most-valuable franchise. The Cowboys made $840 million in revenue in the past year. Blank’s Falcons took in $367 million while the Oakland Raiders, 32nd and last in the league for revenue, made $321 million.
It’s those disparities that make Jones the NFL’s most powerful owner, and mean the Cowboys aren’t going anywhere in the short, medium or long-term future.
But if Jones really wanted to test out how scared the league is of losing the world’s most-valuable sports franchise, couldn’t he employ his own “nuclear” tactic.  Newsweek has explored the possibility for him by sending an email to the Canadian Football League exploring their receptiveness to welcoming in the Cowboys. The CFL has not responded to a request for comment.
Sure, there are potential roadbumps. The CFL salary cap for the 2017 season, for instance, is set at $5,150,000 which is a little less than the NFL’s mark of $167 million.
Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas. January 15. Jones is engaged in a feud with several NFL team owners.   Joe Robbins/Getty
But we feel confident that if both parties are willing, a deal can be done here. It’s not like the CFL is struggling—a June 2016  ESPN piece noted a reported $40 million  TSN deal running until 2021 that has helped boost the financial health of the league. "We don't have $1 billion teams, and that means we're on our own a bit more; we have to be more entrepreneurial and innovative," Bob Young, owner of the Hamilton Tiger Cats, told  ESPN  at the time. "We really are nine different businesses."
Well, the CFL could have a near $5 billion business if it’s willing to just demolish its salary cap and most other rules that have made it savvy and successful. As for the Cowboys? Jones hasn’t won a Super Bowl since 1996, and he would surely fancy his chances against the Edmonton Eskimos. And is it really any more geographically ridiculous to call the Cowboys a Canadian franchise than make them play in the NFC East? Not really.


When you’re an All-Time Great, there are ways and ways to wake up your slumbering teammates.
You can, if the mood so takes you, have a 57-point night. You can play the post one night, from the point the next, maybe both in one night the night after, to show the underperformers that positions are really kind of ephemeral. And if neither of those, or anything else, works? Well, there’s always a Knicks rookie to pick on.
The Cavaliers-Knicks game in New York on Monday was notably weird for several reasons, not least the actually-pretty-decent Knicks taking a 15-point lead in the fourth quarter against a team still searching for an identity post-Kyrie Irving.
Not so weird: James sparking the comeback and sinking what proved to be the game-winning shot, a three-pointer over Kristaps Porzingis that had Isaiah Thomas dancing on the sidelines and gave the Cavs their first winning streak since the start of the season.
Weird: James’s feud with the 2017 Knicks, which doesn’t seem finished even after he apparently had the last laugh with that game-winning shot on Monday at Madison Square Garden. “James converted an alley-oop with 40.2 seconds left in the first quarter to put the Cavs up by one,”  ESPN’s wrap-up stated. “He immediately crowded [Frank] Ntilikina, bumping his chest into the point guard while Ntilikina tried to free himself up to receive the inbounds pass, causing Ntilikina to shove his forearm back into James.”
James, whose real beef is with former Knicks President Phil Jackson (who called James’s business entourage a “posse” in an interview with  ESPN last year), aimed a barb at the former Bulls head coach on Saturday when he said the Knicks, “passed on a really good one” by selecting Ntilikina ahead of Dennis Smith Jr. with the eighth pick of the 2017 NBA Draft. Enes Kanter, the Knicks’ center, accused James of “disrespect” on Sunday. After Kanter came to Ntilikina’s defence on Monday, he and James had to be separated by the officials. Both were assessed technical fouls.
As reported by the  New York Post, James clarified on Monday that his issues remain with Jackson, not the Knicks or Ntilikina. Maybe—and only tangentially related to his dislike of Jackson—James also felt like he and the Cavaliers needed to manufacture a spark from somewhere to power up a stuttering early season. Picking on a rookie who is actually playing very decent defense—and proved on Monday night that he has the chutzpah to stand up to the harshness of the NBA—may have seemed like a strange way to go about that. But hey, the Cavaliers are 7-7 and, maybe, moving less hesitantly in the right direction. "Well, I'm the King, my wife is the Queen and my daughter's the Princess, so we've got all three covered," James said in response to Kanter’s post-game jab at his nickname. The Knicks remain a game ahead of the Cavaliers in the Eastern Conference standings. But it’s hard not to feel like James will soon be laughing longest and loudest.


Italy won’t be at the 2018 World Cup in Russia next summer.
Say that again, and see how weird it starts to sound in the mouth, on the tongue—in the  heart, damnit.
Italy, the country that practically invented defending as an art, that gave the world one of soccer’s greatest-ever nicknames—“The Divine Ponytail”—to describe the blissful talents of Roberto Baggio; that lent us Andrea Pirlo and his sublime passing and equally sublime hair and an unfair amount of urbanity; that made us laugh and cry at the same time by doing hilarious things like torching itself with self-reproach for a match-fixing scandal then winning the 2006 World Cup a few weeks later; that hosted the World Cup, in 1990, that woke English football from its own period of introspection and torpor.
That inspired the stiff-lipped BBC to become dewy-eyed enough to meld opera and soccer and create  this title sequence that won’t be beaten no matter how good special effects or virtual reality get…

The Italian soccer team of 2017 is a wispy imitation, though, of those in your memory. Sure, they wear the same, lovely  Azzurri  shirts, and they still have great clubs and good players to pick from even if the best, Juventus and Napoli, rely on foreign players for much of their success.
But something—or things—are missing. Hence the calamity, no less, of Monday night, when Sweden visited the San Siro in Milan for the second leg of a World Cup 2018 play-off and walked out with a 0-0 draw and a 1-0 win on aggregate, that of course, and shockingly, meant Italy will not be present at a World Cup for the first time since 1958.
"We will not be with you and you will not be with us. A love so great must be reserved for other things. Italy will not participate at the World Cup,”  La Gazzetta Dello Sport, Italy’s famous pink-paged sports newspaper, wrote on the Tuesday morning after the night before.
"It is time to start thinking about what else we can do in June: concerts, cinema, village festivals. Anything but watching Sweden play at the World Cup—that would be too painful." It was a kind of death that presaged a series: Gianluigi Buffon, one of Italy’s greatest-ever goalkeepers, retired after the game. Daniele De Rossi and Andrea Barzagli, stalwarts both, both exited sheepishly, painfully.
Because Sweden—and here we invite hate-mail from Swedes the world over—is just okay at soccer. It has one, transcendent player in Zlatan Ibrahimovic who doesn’t even play international soccer anymore. Its best club teams would be humiliated by Juventus, Napoli, Roma and Lazio were they even good enough to get into the Champions League and yet…
Italy still lost. The 2018 World Cup was already U.S.A.-less. Now Italian-Americans don’t even have Italy to cheer on. It might be time to take  Gazzetta’s advice and start making alternative plans for June and July next year.


With one cruel pop in the third quarter of a Thursday Night Football game between the Seattle Seahawks and Arizona Cardinals, the NFL watched another of its most marketable players disappear for the season.
"No coming back from that until you get surgery," Seahawks head coach Pete Carroll said of the ruptured achilles suffered by cornerback Richard Sherman in the third quarter of his team’s 22-16 win at University of Phoenix Stadium, in quotes reported by Reuters. "He's [Sherman] been a bastion of consistency, competitiveness and toughness. We're going to miss the heck out of him."
Sherman hadn’t missed a game since entering the NFL in 2011, according to  ESPN. He said his achilles had been bothering him all season. "One of those things that you have to play through for as long as you can. When it goes, it goes,” Sherman said of the injury. "I've put a lot of stress on it. Think it would have gone eventually."
The 29-year-old isn’t just the durable centerpiece of the “Legion of Boom”—one of those rare defensive players you would pay to watch. He’s a bright, charismatic and occasionally controversial figure in a league that tends towards the bland soundbite. Even past their zenith, the Seahawks remain one of the NFL’s most intriguing, engaging franchises.
Seattle Seahawks Cornerback Richard Sherman at University of Phoenix Stadium, Glendale, Arizona, November 9 2017. Sherman will miss the rest of the season with a ruptured achilles tendon.   Christian Petersen/Getty
And now there will be no more Sherman for this season, on the field at least. Like there has been no JJ Watt since October 8 (Watt fractured his tibia on a Sunday night, though). The Texans' defensive end is, like Sherman, a dominant and charismatic defensive presence you pay to watch, and listen to.
There’s no way of knowing, of course, whether Sherman’s achilles would have given way had the Seahawks played the Cardinals on Sunday, off a full week of rest. His teammates—like many in the NFL—have long since made up their minds. "This s*** should be illegal,” Doug Baldwin told  The  Tacoma News Tribune after the Seahawks’ victory. “It is not OK. It’s not OK. You can quote me on that.
“This is not OK.... Absolutely, guys do not have enough time to recover. You can’t recover in four days.” Bobby Wagner, the Seahawks linebacker, called on the NFL to, “Change the format” of Thursday night games, possibly by giving the two teams involved a bye in the runup week.
That  News Tribune  report makes grim reading. “So many Seahawks couldn't walk without significant pain after this Thursday night 'showcase,' about 10 piled onto an equipment cart from all angles outside locker room so they could avoid having to walk to the team bus,” Greg Bell wrote. “Sherman and his crutches plus Pro Bowl defensive end Michael Bennett with his plantar-fascia injury on top of wrecked toe were among them.” Quarterback Russell Wilson briefly left the game to be evaluated for a hit to the head, before returning to orchestrate the victory.
Adam Schefter’s alarming list of injured NFL stars,  tweeted out by the  ESPN reporter on Friday morning, includes many injured on Sunday afternoons and evenings, the league’s bread-and-butter. But that, in itself, begs the question. If the league’s most marketable players are dropping so frequently on a regular schedule, should the NFL not reexamine the wisdom of short weeks? Sherman’s injury may yet be a catalyst for a move away from "Thursday Night Football."


The Cleveland Cavaliers found a good way to lose a game on Thursday night in Houston.
Hear us out. Yes, the Cavaliers dropped to 5-7 on the season as James Harden cut loose for 35 points and a triple-double, running riot against a defense that has struggled to contain far worse players than Harden this season. Eleventh in the Eastern Conference isn’t a good look for a team with championship-contending ambitions, although the season is only 12 games old and there are a clutch of middling teams sitting between the Cavaliers and the Wizards in fifth.
And there is still too much reliance on LeBron James. James was everywhere again against the Rockets, at one moment playing point guard, at another scoring from the post, rebounding, shot-blocking, on the floor fighting for loose balls… The sight of Isaiah Thomas exhorting from the sideline in civvies only seemed to reinforce the feeling that this is James’s team, for the foreseeable future. James had 33 points, four rebounds and seven assists in a monstrous 40 minutes, despite appearing to tweak an ankle early on. Right now, though, coach Tyronn Lue has to play the NBA’s best player into the ground as his team seeks to make up early ground ceded to Kyrie Irving’s Celtics, especially. That means putting up with James turning the ball over, too—he did so nine times on Thursday, which is understandable and logical when he is having to shoulder so much of the offensive burden.
For all their ongoing struggles, though, there were chinks of light in the darkness at Toyota Center. Despite Harden’s brilliance, particularly from three-point range (he faded in the fourth quarter, however), the Cavaliers pushed a Western Conference powerhouse really hard. They trailed at one stage by 18 points, and occasionally made the slick Rockets' ball-handlers appear rushed and sloppy in possession. Losing by four points to a team that may well emerge out of the West as the second seed is nothing to be ashamed of.
And then there is Jeff Green. Green, the 31-year-old former first-round pick who missed the 2011-12 season with a heart condition and has bounced around the NBA since leaving the Celtics in 2015, shone against the Rockets with 27 points, second on the team only to James. Green was excellent off the bench in Houston but he has been good all season long.  Fearthesword, the Cavaliers blog, pointed out on November 7 that Green is averaging a career-high 10.1 points per game while shooting 48.6 percent from the field. “The Cavaliers don’t move. There hasn’t been a sign that they want to move. Kevin Love, J.R. Smith, Derrick Rose, Dwyane Wade, Jae Crowder—none of them have been willing to move without the ball how Green has,” Zak Geoghegan wrote, elucidating Green’s ability to drive to the basket.
Geoghegan also makes the salient point that Green’s standout play is an issue for the Cavaliers. “I would argue that Green is as average an NBA player as they come,” he writes. Until Love, Rose, Wade and the Cavaliers’ starry supporting cast for James start backing him up consistently though, Green’s unexpected excellence may be a good problem for Lue to have.


The brain of Aaron Hernandez, a former NFL player who was convicted of murder and later hanged himself in prison, showed clear signs of chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) at a stage that researchers had never seen in a person below the age of 46, according to  The Washington Post.  
As Jan Leestma, a forensic neuropathologist has time and again told  Newsweek, it’s very tricky business mapping behavior onto the physical features of the brain. Leestma, who did not evaluate Hernandez’s case, seemed struck by the fact that researchers had observed Stage 3 CTE in the brain of a man who died at 27 years old.  
“It’s certainly worrisome and impressive that you have CTE in such a young person,” Leestma told  Newsweek. “They ought to be able to somehow correlate that to number of hits and concussions and stuff like that. It probably would correlate.”
Former NFL player Aaron Hernandez, who was convicted of murder and took his life in prison, was found to have severe signs of chronic traumatic encephalopathy.   Jim Rogash/Reuters
As for what that could mean behaviorally, Leestma says people with that level of CTE can become impulsive and have “rage attacks.” While Leestma himself has not seen the images of Hernandez’s brain, he speculated that the buildup of tau protein may have led to a disconnection or damage to Hernandez’s frontal lobes, which are associated with impulse control.
At the time of his death, Hernandez was serving out a life sentence for the 2013 murder of Odin Lloyd after having been  acquitted of two other murders.
As the  Post  reports, researchers at Boston University have found evidence of CTE in more than 100 people who had played for the NFL. A small number of those took their own lives. The New York Times reported that in 2011 former NFL player Dave Duerson  shot himself in the chest after texting family members requesting that his brain be studied at Boston University for signs of CTE after his death.
Hernandez’s estate, according to the  Post, filed suit against the New England Patriots in September, with the allegation that the team knew the danger Hernandez’s head injuries posed and that they did not do enough to protect him.


Paris Saint-Germain and FC Barcelona must be feeling like a defender on the other end of one of Neymar’s many step overs and flip-flaps: Utterly confused.
The Brazilian forward turned his back on Catalonia this summer, making transfer history as he completed an astonishing £199 million (about $261 million) move from the Camp Nou to the French capital—more than doubling the cost of Paul Pogba’s £90 million move to  Manchester United the summer before.
And Neymar has seemed to have settled in immediately, certainly on the pitch anyway. He has scored 12 goals in 11 games for his new club. Despite the acrimony with which he left Barcelona, Neymar has remained close with his former colleagues. He has already met up with Gerard Pique, Lionel Messi and  Luis Suarez since leaving.
In one of these meetings, according to Spanish publication  Sport, Neymar suggested to his ex-teammates that he would like to return. “Would you take me back?” is the gist of what the 25-year-old is said to have asked.
Related:   Why does Luis Suarez hate Liverpool so much?
Neymar at the Parc des Princes stadium, Paris, France, November 8.   FRANCK FIFE/AFP/Getty
Barcelona has done pretty well without him, really. The team sits at the top of the Spanish La Liga, eight points clear of  Real Madrid, and is heading for the knockout stages of the Champions League. But the attacking trio of Neymar, Suarez and Messi—known as the Trident—was one of the most lethal and menacing line-ups in recent history.
During Neymar’s last season at the Camp Nou, they scored a combined total of 111 goals in all competitions. Only money, it seemed, could and would separate them.
But, now, Neymar has reportedly already grown tired of the lack of competition in the French Ligue 1. PSG is undefeated, top of the table and four points clear of a depleted Monaco in second. Neymar reportedly skipped the 5-0 win over Anderlecht in midweek to make sure he was fit enough to feature for Brazil through the international break. Brazil plays Japan on Friday and then travels to London to face England at Wembley Stadium on Tuesday.
The possibility of Neymar returning to Spain has been widely publicized in the past week, but with varied destinations. According to  Marca, the prospect of Neymar joining Barcelona’s biggest rival in Spain, Real Madrid, is not an “impossible dream.” Many in the Spanish capital see the Brazilian as the perfect successor to Cristiano Ronaldo when he eventually retires.


Chelsea is already preparing to make bids for Crystal Palace striker Christian Benteke and Everton’s Ross Barkley in the January transfer window, according to reports.
Antonio Conte was disappointed with the club’s business through the summer despite spending more than £150 million (about $197 million) on new players.
Alvaro Morata became  Chelsea’s record signing when he joined from Real Madrid for £70 million, and the club also picked up Tiemoue Bakayoko, Antonio Rudiger and Danny Drinkwater.
But Conte was frustrated that the club missed out on Fernando Llorente, who joined Spurs from Swansea instead, while Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain opted for Liverpool.
Barkley, the Everton midfielder, had also been a target for  Chelsea, reportedly traveling to London but changing his mind during the last transfer window. But the club is determined to secure his services in the new year, according to  The Mirror.
Related:   Will Jose Mourinho quit Manchester United because of Pep Guardiola?
Antonio Conte at the Vitality Stadium, Bournemouth, southern England, October 28.   GLYN KIRK/AFP/Getty
A hamstring injury has meant Barkley has not featured at all for Everton this season. He had frequently fallen out with former manager Ronald Koeman, and is yet to hear who his permanent successor will be. Sam Allardyce is the favorite, while David Unsworth is in interim charge.
Conte and Chelsea also want Benteke, the Palace striker, as back-up to Morata after missing out on Llorente in the summer. Conte has not shown much faith in Michy Batshuayi, the only other striker in the Italian’s squad.
Conte’s frustrations over Chelsea’s transfer activity stemmed from his belief that the club failed to replace all those who had left the previous year.
Since Conte took charge in the summer of 2016, Mikel John Obi, Branislav Ivanovic, Nemanja Matic, John Terry, Ramires, Diego Costa, Nathan Ake and Oscar have all left the club.
Despite much speculation, Chelsea is avoiding a crisis at the moment as  Sunday’s 1-0 victory over Manchester United saw the club go one point off second place in the Premier League.
Victory or a draw against Atletico Madrid next month, at Stamford Bridge, would see Chelsea qualify for the knockout stages of the Champions League.


Lonzo Ball has shown signs of the player the Los Angeles Lakers expect him to become after picking him second overall in 2017 NBA draft.
So far, in his first season in the league, the 20-year-old rookie is averaging 8.8 assists per game while helping  the Lakers defense become the fifth best in the league.
There is, however, one area in which Ball has not excelled. His shooting has been off, seeing him ranked last in the roster in shooting percentage, at 29.5 percent.
This has been a surprise for the Lakers considering his accuracy was never a problem during Ball’s time at UCLA. He shot at 55.1 percent overall during his one season there, and the reason for the drop is unclear though professional defences probably play a part in it.
Related:   Are the Lakers clearing space for LeBron James?
Lonzo Ball at TD Garden, Boston, Massachusetts, November 8.   Tim Bradbury/Getty
But Ball did try to shed some light on the problem: It’s all in the mind, he says. After losing to the  Boston Celtics on Wednesday night, Ball addressed his form while speaking to  ESPN. “It’s in my head to be honest,” he said. “I know I can shoot the ball."
The Lakers, meanwhile, are 11th in the Western Conference, and coach Luke Walton believes he knows the difference between the Lakers and the more successful teams in the league.
“Most of those teams have been together for a while,” Walton said, as quoted by Bill Abram of the  O.C. Register, “and have gone after this and they’ve failed together. There’s nothing like failing to bring a good team together because then you realize how bad that hurts and how much more you want it.”
Walton’s team will have a chance to get back on course quickly on Thursday night as the Lakers travel to the Capital One Arena in D.C. to take on the Washington Wizards.


Mesut Ozil is finally prepared to sign a new contract at Arsenal but has one demand before putting pen to paper, according to reports.
Ozil’s contract at the Emirates Stadium expires at the end of the season, which means he is free to speak to any club he wishes in January and sign a pre-contract agreement.
But the German’s high wages have reportedly put many potential suitors off, and Ozil is happy enough to remain in north London.
He does, however, want to have a new number on the back of his jersey, the number 10, currently held by Jack Wilshere, before he signs a new deal, according to  The Sun.
Ozil has been at Arsenal since 2013 when he was signed for a then-club record transfer. He has won two FA Cups with Arsene Wenger but has been frequently criticized for failing to be the talisman the team needs.
Related:   Has Jose Mourinho already given up on Manchester United?
Mesut Ozil at Emirates Stadium, London, October 28.   DANIEL LEAL-OLIVAS/AFP/Getty
Alexis Sanchez, meanwhile, who is also out of contract at the end of the season, still looks unlikely to sign a new deal. The Chilean forward could leave the Emirates Stadium as early as January as Arsenal looks to get some form of fee for him.
Manchester City has shown interest in him. Pep Guardiola’s team submitted a bid for Sanchez on the final day of the summer transfer window but Arsenal was too slow to find a replacement for him, so the deal collapsed.
Wenger and Arsenal have been unable to show Sanchez that the club will, once again, be a force in the Premier League after slipping to sixth in the table after 11 games and already lagging 12 points behind City.
The idea of Sanchez joining Guardiola’s squad is an ominous prospect for the rest of the league, as he would be another option in attack alongside Sergio Aguero and Gabriel Jesus, who have scored 15 goals between them.
The transfer window reopens on January 1 for a month.


Real Madrid wants to sign Juan Mata from Manchester United for free in January as the Spaniard’s contract expires at the end of the season, according to reports.
Mata is one of the many players at  Old Trafford who has just over six months to run on their contract. He is joined by Marouane Fellaini, Ander Herrera, Daley Blind and Ashley Young.
Madrid is planning on taking advantage of that situation by offering 29-year-old Mata a move to the Spanish capital at the end of the season, according to the  Daily Express.
Mata has played regularly for United this season, making 12 appearances, but has benefitted from the number of injuries the squad has suffered. Many expected him to leave Old Trafford when  Jose Mourinho was appointed manager last summer after he criticized and sold Mata while at Chelsea.
Having spent four years at Valencia, Mata does have experience of the Spanish La Liga, and he even has knowledge of the  Real Madrid system.
Related:   Has Jose Mourinho already given up on Manchester United?
Jose Mourinho at Stamford Bridge, London, November 5.   GLYN KIRK/AFP/Getty
The Spain international began his career in the Real Madrid academy and featured 39 times for the B team before leaving for Valencia.
Meanwhile, Madrid has also shown even greater ambition in the transfer market, for a player who would certainly not be joining for free. On Tuesday, reports in Spain suggested the Real President Florentino Perez has already been in talks with Neymar’s father about a move for the Brazilian.
Neymar only completed his world-record £199 million (about $262 million) move from Barcelona to  Paris Saint-Germain a little over three months ago, but  Real is already making a move.
Neymar has shown why PSG was willing to pay such a huge sum for him this summer, having scored 11 goals in 12 appearances for the Ligue 1 giant. And it has attracted the interest of Real, which is planning for life after Cristiano  Ronaldo.
The Portuguese forward, who turns 33 in February, has had a relatively slow start to the new season by his exceptionally high standards. Ronaldo has scored just one goal in La Liga for  Real which is third in the table, eight points behind leader Barcelona.


Former major league pitcher Roy Halladay died Tuesday after his ICON A5 plane crashed in the Gulf of Mexico, 10 miles west of St. Petersburg, Florida, the Pasco County Sheriff's Office confirmed in a press conference. He was 40 years old. 
The man often called "Doc" retired in 2013 after spending 16 years in the major leagues, playing for the Toronto Blue Jays and Philadelphia Phillies. He was an eight-time All-Star and two-time Cy Young winner. He pitched one perfect game and a postseason no-hitter. At his best, there wasn't a person on the planet better at throwing a baseball 60 feet and six inches. 
But after the crash, it was clear Halladay's impact was bigger than baseball.
"Blessed to have shared the field with you as a teammate, competitor, friend and more importantly a brother," wrote former Philadelphia Phillies teammate Shane Victorino. "We lost a great ball player but an even better human being," wrote former teammate Ryan Howard. "[Roy was] one of the most respected human beings to ever play the game," said the Phillies in a statement. Many sent their thoughts to his wife Brandy and his sons, Ryan and Braden. Sheriff Chris Nocco's voice cracked delivering the news Halladay had died. "The worst case scenario happened and it breaks our hearts," he said.
In the aftermath of the tragedy and the outpouring of remembrances, it's easy to forget that Halladay's storied career wasn't inevitable. At times he was impossibly great, but he was never an overpowering or flashy presence on the mound. In 2000, he nearly flamed out of the league, posting a 10.64 earned run average through some 67 innings. But Halladay rebuilt his mechanics in the minors, and by 2003 he had won his first Cy Young award with the Blue Jays. He'd win another with the Phillies in 2010.
By the late 2000s, Halladay was widely considered one the best, if not the best, pitcher in the world. In the 2010 National League Division Series, he tossed a no-hitter against the Cincinnati Reds in his first-ever postseason appearance. It was also just the second no-hitter in MLB postseason history. Earlier in the season, he pitched a perfect game against the Florida Marlins, making him, at the time, the first player to register two no-hitters in a single season since Nolan Ryan in 1973.


When Halladay joined the Phillies in 2010, he was seen as almost mythic figure who was seeking a chance at a World Series ring. He was a competitor with unmatched intensity and a hero who was exceedingly approachable. Sure he won 21 games in a season and pitched a perfect game. But he also took the time to meet with the popular blogger Zoo With Roy at a zoo because, well, the writer made such a meeting the somewhat random goal for his website.  

As the years went on, injuries got in the way of Halladay's dominance. Shoulder problems robbed him of velocity, and he walked off the mound for good in 2013. His retirement gave me more time to purse his passion for flying, which only grew in recent years. He would often post photos of planes or cockpit selfies to social media.
At Tuesday's press conference, it was still too early for the sheriff to have an explanation for how the crash happened. But Nocco used the opportunity to speak about Halladay's accomplishments on the field and praise his positive effect on the community. 
“He was probably one of the most humble human beings you’ll ever meet,” Nocco said. “He was one in a million. It is a true loss for us.”


UPDATE: 4:19 p.m. EDT: Former MLB pitcher Roy Halladay died Tuesday in a plane crash, the Pasco County Sheriff's Office in Florida confirmed in a press conference. He was 40 years old. 
"The worst-case scenario happened, and it breaks our hearts," said Sheriff Chris Nocco.

 
Original story:
A plane owned by former Major League Baseball superstar Roy Halladay reportedly crashed in the Gulf of Mexico Tuesday. Local Tampa, Florida, news station WTSP reported that one person died in the crash. It was unclear early Tuesday afternoon if Halladay was aboard the plane. 
The Pasco County Sheriff's Office told the station that Halladay's ICON A5 plane crashed around 1 p.m. local time, about 10 miles west of St. Petersburg, Florida.
Halladay had a storied career as a pitcher with the Toronto Blue Jays and Philadelphia Phillies, appearing in eight All-Star games and winning two Cy Young Awards. He has long been known to have a passion for flying, and many of his posts to social media involved his hobby.




This story is developing. Check back for updates. 


Former sports radio host Craig Carton is facing up to 45 years in prison on charges of wire fraud, securities fraud and conspiracy. On Tuesday, he broke his silence on the charges leveled against him in an interview with USA Today. 
The former WFAN personality co-hosted a popular New York-themed sports show with former NFL quarterback Boomer Esiason for 10 years. But Carton resigned in September after prosecutors accused him of using money from an alleged Ponzi scheme to pay off gambling debts.
Carton told USA Today that he has lost all income and his "dream job" as he awaits trial. He reportedly plans to plead not guilty in the alleged scheme in which he and others offered large numbers of tickets for face value that would then be sold later for profit.

"It is devastating," he told USA Today. "There is no other word for it. It has thrown my entire life upside down—I have to talk to my kids about things that they might not understand but that I know they are reading...adult things that no kid should ever have to read about, especially when you are talking about their father."
Carton has had some high-profile support. Friend and outgoing New Jersey governor, Chris Christie defended him in the USA Today piece. “I believe in Craig and I believe in his goodness as a person,” Christie told the paper.
Carton has largely stayed out of the media in the midst of the scandal that broke months ago. But in talking to USA Today, he couldn't help get a shot in on former Jets quarterback Geno Smith, who tweeted about the former host when the story broke. “Geno Smith? Who’s that—is he still playing football? It says a lot about Geno Smith’s career that I made him relevant again."

Robert Gottlieb, Carton's lawyer, appears to be building a case that Carton was actually a victim of the scheme, which allegedly involved more than $4 million. Gottlieb told the New York Post that a man named Joseph Meli, believed to be involved in the ticket scam, victimized Carton. 
While he prepares for his day in court, the once-outspoken Carton told the paper that he plans to make a return to his job. "I think about (being on sports radio) every minute of every day," he told USA Today. "You can bet your (butt) that I will do it again at some point."


Jose Mourinho is not a man typically known for changing his mind—stubbornness, indeed, may be one of the characteristics that helped him become the successful coach he is today.
But changing his mind is exactly what he has done over the past few months. 
Six years ago, while manager at Real Madrid, Mourinho sat in a room in Qatar with the new owners of Paris Saint-Germain and listened to their offer to become the club's new manager. A super-club would need a super-coach. But Mourinho decided not to take it.
The French Ligue 1, for Mourinho, lacked the excitement of competitions like the English Premier League, a league he was keen to return. And, of course, he did. After leaving the Santiago Bernabeu in acrimony, Mourinho won the Premier League with Chelsea and then became manager of Manchester United in the summer of 2016. 
Jose Mourinho at Old Trafford, Manchester, England, October 31.   OLI SCARFF/AFP/Getty
A successful first season, winning the Community Shield, League Cup and Europa League—taking United back to the Champions League—marked an upturn for both Mourinho and United. The ascent was set to continue this season, with United second in the Premier League table and heading toward the knockout stages of the Champions League. 
Related: Jose Mourinho still messages me and wanted me at Manchester United, says Alvaro Morata 
But how long Mourinho will be around at Old Trafford has grown increasingly uncertain. Speaking to French television last month, Mourinho said he was not planning on finishing his career there. "The only thing I can say is that I’m still a coach with worries, with ambitions and with the desire to do new things. And I don’t believe... no, I’m sure that I won’t end my career here," he said. 
Mourinho then went on to speak effusively about the French capital and the project at PSG. “The other day," he said, "my son who lives in London went to Paris and not to Manchester to watch the match." Asked why his son chose that option, the United manager added: “Because at the moment in Paris there is something special. Magic, quality, youth, it’s fantastic.”
Paris has reportedly been quick to act on Mourinho's words. According to the Manchester Evening News, PSG has contacted the coach's agent Jorge Mendes about Mourinho's future. 
Qatar's aim in 2011 was to dominate in French football. PSG has been champion in four of the last five seasons. And now it wants to dominate on the continent and become king of Europe. 
After Laurent Blanc, the owners turned to Spaniard Unai Emery. Emery won an unprecedented three consecutive Europa League titles with Sevilla before taking over at Parc des Princes in 2016, and saw his team eliminated by Barcelona at the last-16 stage last season. 
Mourinho, though, has the pedigree PSG wants, having won the Champions League with Porto in 2004 and with Inter Milan in 2010. And it suddenly seems to be a fit. Mourinho has changed his mind: French football is now an attractive proposition. 


As LeBron James’ frustrations in Cleveland continue to mount, on the other side of the country a plan may be starting to take shape to lure him to Los Angeles.
James has, again, starred for the Cavs this season, but this time the results have not followed. He is without  Kyrie Irving, who was traded to the Boston Celtics, while Isaiah Thomas, who came the other way, is not expected to be fit until the new year. This has affected  James and the Cavs.
The team is 13th in the Eastern Conference and is 4-6 so far this season, and the victories that have come were thanks, largely, to James’ efforts. On Friday, he scored 57 points against the Washington Wizards at Verizon Center to end a four-game losing skid that was verging on crisis.
In the west, the Lakers have not had the start they had hoped for, with a 5-5 record, which is good for 11th in the standings. But the future looks bright at Staples Center. Lonzo Ball, the rookie, is showing the signs of stardom Magic Johnson and the Lakers had hoped for, and expected.
The rumors are that they want James to opt out of his contract with the Cavs next summer and join the Lakers. And it seems they could already be making space for him.
Related:   Dwyane Wade is probably regretting joining LeBron James and the Cavaliers
LeBron James at Quicken Loans Arena, Cleveland, Ohio, November 1.   Gregory Shamus/Getty
Luol Deng has been sidelined in L.A. The decision to start rookie Kyle Kuzma over Deng last week after Larry Nance Jr. suffered a broken bone in his hand, appeared to spell the end for Deng. He was certain of it, anyway, and is now ready to leave.
"It definitely hurts," Deng told  ESPN. "But the only answer for me now is to prove myself away from L.A. I'm not asked to play, I'm not in the rotation, so I can't prove myself here.
"Most of these young guys don't understand the business of basketball, so if I come in here and I'm angry every day, I'm taking something away from them. I have to be smiling, I have to be in the best mood I can be in, because they're living their dream of being an NBA player."
He added: “You spend the whole summer like, trying to come back for the city, for the team, to prove that it was just one bad year. But the opportunity's not there. I know I make a lot of money, but for me—I came from nothing so it's always been about the love of the game.”
Deng’s departure would begin to create the LeBron-sized hole on the Lakers roster that Johnson and Luke Walton are so desperate to fill.


Brett Hundley was bad against the Detroit Lions on Monday Night Football, in the most boringly, mind-numbingly, soul-crushingly competent way possible.
Check out his numbers. There was nothing wrong, per se, with Hundley’s performance. Aaron Rodgers’s backup-turned-starter threw for 245 yards in completing 26 of 38 passes and zero interceptions. There was nothing much right with it, though, either. Spreading the ball around between 10 different receivers, including luminaries like Jordy Nelson, Randall Cobb and Davante Adams, Hundley failed to find the end zone all game. The Lions got a near-perfect game from Matthew Stafford, who completed 26 of 33 passes for 361 yards and no interceptions. If Stafford starts heating up, they can probably catch a Vikings team playing Super Bowl–caliber defense that also plans to stick with Case Keenum under center when Teddy Bridgewater returns, according to  CBS. The NFC North, not so long ago one of the strongest divisions in professional football, is now something of a mess.
“An offense that once operated with unparalleled efficiency at the hands of all-time great Aaron Rodgers is unrecognizable with Brett Hundley at the controls,” Matt Harmon wrote in a scathing takedown of Hundley’s performance on  NFL.com on Monday night. “No one makes it look easier than Rodgers. Accustomed to a quarterback who executes every facet of the position, it's painful to watch the Packers' offense manned by a player who makes every play look as laborious as possible.”
There are mitigating factors to Hundley’s futility. Since Rodgers went down with a broken collarbone against the Vikings on October 15, the Packers’ defense has been unable to make crucial stops in conceding 26 points to the New Orleans Saints and then 30 to the Lions. Rodgers could overcome those defensive weaknesses—the Packers are giving up 357.4 yards per game, eighth-worst in the NFL—a backup cannot. Hundley also isn’t being helped by a mediocre running game: The Packers are gaining 98.6 yards per game, which ranks 21st in the league. The Packers’ problems on the ground were on show on Monday night. Head coach Mike McCarthy, who calls the Packers’ offensive plays, spread the carries between five different backs, including wide receiver Cobb. Ty Montgomery ran for 33 yards on six carries, but the Packers’ second-most effective rusher was Hundley.
Brett Hundley of the Green Bay Packers at Lambeau Field in Green Bay, Wisconsin, on October 22. Hundley has struggled as the Packers’ quarterback after Aaron Rodgers broke his collarbone.   Stacy Revere/Getty
Once again, it feels like only Rodgers could overcome the Packers’ lack of play-action threat. Hundley, on the evidence of two full games, does not possess the skill set to overcome a laborious running game. So why, with Rodgers nowhere near a return and the offense stagnant, not rip the system up and bring in a dual-threat quarterback? Yes, Colin Kaepernick is now enmeshed in a suit alleging collusion by NFL owners in keeping him out of the league, which may finally have made him a persona never to be  grata again. But it’s uncanny how the situation Peter King outlined in  Sports Illustrated, and that we covered in the middle of October, has and hasn’t come to pass.
“My opinion: The Packers should call Colin Kaepernick on Monday morning. Not necessarily to sign him. If I were general manager Ted Thompson and coach Mike McCarthy, I’d want to meet with Kaepernick to see if he’d be willing to come in as a backup to Hundley while he took a crash course in the offense,” King wrote on October 15, opining that if Hundley struggled, the Packers would have an experienced signal-caller ready to take over for the crucial run-in to the playoffs. OK, it was almost five years ago, which may as well be a lifetime in the NFL, but McCarthy had a ringside seat for that extraordinary, spine-tingling NFC Divisional game on January 12, 2013, when Kaepernick ran for 181 yards, shredding a bemused and ultimately befuddled Packers defense.
Kaepernick is probably never going to do that again, for the Packers or any other team. But couldn’t he offer the Packers more than what Hundley is currently providing? As with the Texans and Broncos—less so the Colts—there’s a sense that certain NFL teams may be prepared to let potential Super Bowl–winning seasons slide into the ether, all for the sake of not hiring Kaepernick. McCarthy still has a chance to buck that trend. No one is holding their breath, though.


Real Madrid is working on a deal to sign Brazilian forward Neymar as Cristiano Ronaldo’s successor at the Bernabeu Stadium, according to reports in Spain.
Neymar only completed his world-record £199 million (about $262 million) move from Barcelona to  Paris Saint-Germain little over three months ago, but  Real is already making a move.
According to Spanish newspaper  Mundo Deportivo, Real Madrid president  Florentino Perez has already been in discussions with Neymar’s father, an influential figure throughout his career, regarding a move for the Brazilian.
Neymar has already shown why PSG was willing to pay such a huge sum for him this summer, having scored 11 goals in 12 appearances for the Ligue 1 giant. And it has attracted the interest of Real, which is planning for life after  Ronaldo.
The Portuguese forward, who turns 33 in February, has had a relatively slow start to the new season for his exceptionally high standards. Ronaldo has scored just one goal in La Liga for  Real which sits third in the table, eight points behind leader Barcelona.
Related:   Zinedine Zidane knows how to deal with Bernabeu boo-boys, says former Real Madrid president
Cristiano Ronaldo at Wembley Stadium, London, United Kingdom, November 1.   Laurence Griffiths/Getty
Any deal for Neymar, the report says, is unlikely to be completed before 2021 when Ronaldo’s contract in the Spanish capital expires. But it’s not the first time Real has shown interest in the 25-year-old.
In 2013, Neymar opted to join rival club Barcelona instead of Real Madrid, where he went on to win the Champions League, two La Liga championships and three Copa del Rey titles.
Real Madrid, meanwhile, is in a period that many believe to be verging on crisis. Although only early in the season, the gap to Barcelona is large and will be impressive to recover from and win the league. In Europe, Real still looks set to advance to the knockout stages of the Champions League but Zinedine Zidane’s team was embarrassed 3-1 by Tottenham Hotspur at Wembley last week.
Former club president Ramon Calderon believes the pressure could mount quickly on the French coach. “[Perez] doesn’t like to lose,” he told  Newsweek. “I think Zidane is in trouble now, but if things are not going well in La Liga, I don’t know how he will react. At the moment, it’s too early and I don’t expect him to make a decision and sack him. I hope not.”


The Cleveland Cavaliers are struggling, and losing, and LeBron James is angry and frustrated.
That may be the simplest interpretation of James’s latest Instagram post, published in the early hours of Tuesday morning. “Mood…”, James wrote, beside a picture of the closed fist of Arthur, a cartoon aardvark. The Cavaliers lost to the Atlanta Hawks on Sunday at Quicken Loans Arena, two days after James’s 57 points had dragged them to victory over the Wizards in Washington, D.C. The Cavaliers are 13th in the Eastern Conference after ten games, above only the Chicago Bulls and the Hawks in the standings.
It’s clear that James, who has flashed M.V.P. form amid the Cavaliers’ struggles, is far from happy with what has been a sluggish start to the season at best. “At least James showed some urgency after the game [against the Hawks],  ESPN reported on Sunday. “He didn't even take the time to put on clothes after his shower, entering coach Tyronn Lue's office for a postgame meeting wearing nothing but a towel around his waist and slide sandals.”
The Cavaliers’ struggles have been starkest on the defensive side of the ball, particularly among the starters. Derrick Rose, Kyrie Irving’s replacement at point guard while Isaiah Thomas recovers from hip injuries, was a minus-27 in 20 minutes’ action against the Hawks. Jae Crowder, who arrived in Cleveland in the summer trade that sent Irving to Boston in return for Thomas, was minus-24 in 24 minutes. Dwyane Wade, James’s old buddy who scored 25 points off the bench, pointed fingers squarely at the Cavaliers’ underperforming starting lineup. "It's no secret we're starting games off awful," Wade said. “Terrible. And [Atlanta] got it going early, and the effort or the focus just wasn't there to start off, and you try to battle back, you waste a lot of energy trying to come back from 16-18 down, and it's tough nightly to do this. And we all know this. It's no secret in this locker room, but our first unit, we got to start off better."
LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers at Quicken Loans Arena, Cleveland, Ohio, June 16 2016. James posted a cryptic Instagram meme on Tuesday morning.   Jason Miller/Getty
Irving, meanwhile, has been better defensively with the Celtics than many expected and has started to produce the kind of offensive form that can help Boston cover for the season-ending injury to Gordon Hayward. Irving scored 35 points on Monday night as the Hawks pushed the Celtics hard in Atlanta, before Irving’s clutch three-pointer from the right wing gave Brad Stevens’s team a one-point lead late in the game that it would not relinquish. James’s Arthur meme was posted soon after Irving’s game finished. “The timing of LeBron's post led many fans to comment that the meme was in response to Kyrie Irving's impressive performance in the Boston Celtics' latest win,”  ESPN suggested on Tuesday morning.
To make things weirder, and funnier, Thomas and Wade both joined in the thread in the comments. “Need me to handle somebody cuz?” Thomas asked. Wade posted a series of laughter emojis.
 
lolllll IT in here now offering his services with a broken hip pic.twitter.com/mdQTBmfCyq
 

 
@World_Wide_Wob @DwyaneWade  getting in it __ pic.twitter.com/3us4U3ts3U
 

This isn’t entirely unusual behavior for James, perhaps the NBA’s most savvy exploiter of social media. “Ladies and gentlemen: we’ve reached Inscrutable, Perhaps Deliberately Vague and Endless-Speculation-Inducing LeBron Social Media Season!”  Yahoo Sports wrote on Tuesday morning. The devil is in the ambiguity, of course. We know James is bubbling under. Only those in the Cavaliers’ locker-room will know exactly how, and why.


Jose Mourinho is in danger of losing Marouane Fellaini as the Belgian’s contract is set to expire at the end of the season, according to reports.
Fellaini has been a figure of fun for some quarters at Old Trafford, with some believing his style does not suit  Manchester United’s football.
But Mourinho is a fan of Fellaini and he frequently employs the midfielder as a tactic against certain teams. However, it seems Fellaini's future at the club is now uncertain.
According to  Turkish Football, Turkish team Besiktas is keen on signing the big midfielder and will attempt to make a pre-contract agreement in January.
Related:   Five things we learned as Manchester United lost to Chelsea
Marouane Fellaini at Stamford Bridge, London, November 5.   Shaun Botterill/Getty
Besiktas has picked off ageing talent in the European leagues in recent years. Former Real Madrid center back Pepe now plays his football there. Ricardo Quaresma, once of Chelsea, plays for Besiktas, as does Alvaro Negredo, the former Manchester City and Middlesbrough striker.
But Mourinho will not want to see Fellaini follow. He has made a point to praise the midfielder this season, singling him out on Sunday following United’s 1-0 defeat to Chelsea at Stamford Bridge.
Fellaini came on as a substitute despite still carrying an injury and having trained for only one day. Although he struggled in west London, Mourinho made a point to praise him after the game, saying he “amazing.”
“My thoughts with the substitutions was to bring [on] a third creative man," said the Portuguese coach. "And then when Chelsea started putting defensive players on like [Antonio] Rudiger and [Danny] Drinkwater and all the defensive bodies in, it was difficult to penetrate with the creativity of [Marcus] Rashford and [Anthony] Martial and the way to go would be with an amazing Marouane.
“With these different options, we created lots of chances. He has one with the chest and the volley and then the second ball Rashford shoots [just wide] with the left foot when Courtois had absolutely no chance. The players gave everything. We deserved a goal."


Wide receiver Josh Gordon was as promising a talent as any in the recent history of the NFL. But the 26-year-old's career was derailed by a long struggle with substance abuse that saw him suspended time and time again for testing positive for drugs or alcohol. He hasn't played a down since 2014, but last week Gordon was conditionally reinstated by the league.
In an interview with GQ published Monday, Gordon said he is now sober and detailed just how bad things got during his battles with addiction. He claimed that he always had something in his system during each and every NFL game he played.
"I used to make a ritual of it before every game," Gordon told GQ's Clay Skipper. "Even before I was getting tested for alcohol, prior to my DWI in 2014, I would take the biggest bong rip I could."
Sometimes, Gordon's pre-game routine meant downing shots before kickoff. "I would have these little pre-made shots," he said. "I used to love Grand Marnier. I could drink it down smooth. I could usually drink a lot of it. But if it wasn't that, it might be a whiskey or something. And I would drink probably like half a glass, or a couple shots to try and warm my system up, basically. To get the motor running. That's what I would do for games."

In the interview, Gordon described himself as a "highly functioning" alcoholic who had been on some sort of substance for every game dating back to college. But he also seemed to have truly reflected on his past struggles, saying he had finally gotten sober not for a shot at playing pro ball again or for other people but for himself.
Gordon is expected to report to the Cleveland Browns tomorrow, and could participate in team practices as soon as November 27. 
"We respect and commend Josh for taking the steps necessary to have the opportunity to return to the league," Browns executive vice president of football operations Sashi Brown said, according to the team's website. "Josh will be in our building in the coming days and we look forward to having him back and sitting with him to discuss his future on our team."
Read the full GQ interview here.


Less than a month after breaking his ankle in his first appearance for the Boston Celtics, Gordon Hayward is back on the court—though in a wheelchair. 
The 27-year-old, who signed to the Celtics in the summer, suffered a gruesome broken ankle just five minutes into the season opener against the Cleveland Cavaliers. Having signed a four-year, $128 million deal during the off-season, Hayward now looks set to miss the rest of the season.
But fans will be pleased to see Hayward back shooting hoops just 20 days after fracturing his left tibia in a collision with LeBron James.
Related:   How Long Will Gordon Hayward Be Out? Celtics Star Breaks Ankle Five Minutes Into Season Opener
 
He’s putting in the work__@gordonhayward ☘️ pic.twitter.com/0d7YBvvRmZ
 

 
Video of Gordon Hayward in the gym working on his game from a chair☘️_ pic.twitter.com/8x6nwbIqfh
 

Speaking at a press conference on Thursday last week, Hayward spoke of his relief to be back out on the court—even if it was sitting down. "Shooting out of a chair is a little bit different than shooting standing up. It's pretty short," he said, as quoted by  ESPN.
"But just to be out on the court with a basketball...that was an incredible feeling, just to start that process. Just because, for two weeks or whatever, I was in a bed with my foot up the whole time. Those hours seem like they last forever because you're just sitting there and bored and can't do much.
"I do whatever I can with the basketball. That's what I love to do. That was fun. Looking forward to any chance to do that.
"It's going to be really important for me and my mental health to stay involved and still be a part of the team as much as I can," Hayward added.


Lamar Odom reportedly collapsed in a nightclub over the weekend, sparking new concern for the former NBA star who nearly died last year amid a struggle with substance abuse. 
According to TMZ Sports, Odom was in the VIP booth of the Los Angeles nightclub Bootsy Bellows when he appeared to collapse at around 2 a.m. Sunday morning. Video posted by the celebrity news site shows Odom on the ground before a group of people lift him back up onto a couch. The former Los Angeles Laker and onetime husband of Khloe Kardashian appeared to be conscious during the incident and has reportedly recovered.
"Lamar is doing well," a representative told E! News. "He was dehydrated and had been in an intense workout earlier in the day. It was also very hot in the club."
Odom played for five teams in his 14-year NBA career. But he became a household name beyond basketball thanks to his frequent appearances on Kardashian-related TV shows. 
In 2015, Odom famously had a brush with death in a Las Vegas brothel. Police said Odom had taken cocaine and a Viagra-like supplement before losing consciousness. Doctors later determined that the drug cocktail led to an overdose. 
"I was home by myself. Bored. I wanted to get out and have a good time," Odom told Us Weekly about the brothel incident. "Looking back, I might have had a drink to get the mood started, but was I drunk or on drugs? Not at all. I remember lying in bed. Two women were in bed and then I fell asleep. That’s all. When I woke up four days later, I was trying to pull the tubes out of my mouth."
Odom told Us Weekly that he has suffered 12 strokes and two heart attacks amid a long struggle with drugs.The 38-year-old has gone to rehab and said in interviews he has embarked on a new path.
In the TMZ report, the person who filmed the incident said they saw Odom drinking before he collapsed.


On Friday night in Washington, D.C., LeBron James did what LeBron James has always done, often had to do, when his teammates were struggling. He loaded them onto his back and dragged them, kicking and screaming, to the win.
James scored 57 points against the Washington Wizards at Verizon Center to power the Cavaliers past an Eastern Conference rival and snap a four-game losing skid that was threatening to become a slide into crisis, even this early in the season. James’s monster night included 23 of 34 shootings, 11 rebounds, seven assists, three steals and two blocks. It was the second-most productive game of his NBA career, and his biggest-ever single-game points haul as a Cavalier.
There’s a paragraph from  SB Nation’s report of the game that gives a pretty accurate portrayal of how James decided to take the Wizards on by himself. “You could see this James emerge slowly over the game: He scored 24 points in the first half within the normal confines of the offense,” Tim Cato wrote. “By the start of the fourth quarter, though, the offense turned into him in a pick-and-roll with Dwyane Wade. As the quarter progressed, even that went to the wayside. It was just James, the ball, and him trying to score.” It was one man’s will against a franchise, and the man won. And it wasn’t even that surprising. James will do something similar again this season, if only because he will be forced to by the Cavaliers’ deficiencies. It’s becoming increasingly clear that if the Cavaliers are going to make a championship run this season, it’s going to be by leaning on James.
LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers at Cleveland's Quicken Loans Arena on November 1. James and the Cavaliers fell to the Atlanta Hawks Sunday night.   Gregory Shamus/Getty
And that’s a problem. One, because every prospective suitor is going to get several good looks at just how well James still plays, even at 32. Two, because how long will James want to keep carrying a team, given his history of surrounding himself with uber-talented supporting casts? At this point—albeit it’s a terrifyingly early conclusion—there’s only one winner from the decision to send Kyrie Irving to Boston in exchange for an injured Isaiah Thomas. At least from the Cavaliers’ perspective, the Nets’ early-season hints of promise appear to have vanished, so the first-round draft pick the Cavaliers are getting come spring should be a good one.
On the night James piled up those 57 points in the nation’s capital, Paul Pierce dropped a firecracker into the free-agency speculation around The King. "If it’s not Cleveland [James’s team for 2018], it’ll be difficult to see him going out west, because the west is so tough, and the road to the finals is not easy,” Pierce said in quotes reported by  CBS. “Now, there’s one Eastern Conference team that I think he’s the best fit, and I believe it’s the Washington Wizards.
“I mean, you have a young back court still, guys where LeBron doesn’t have to carry the load every night. You have a young small forward in Otto Porter. You can play LeBron at the four.”
Let’s talk about “carrying the load.” On Sunday, the Cavaliers hosted the 8-2 Atlanta Hawks and produced their most embarrassing performance of the season so far: a 117-115 loss in which several starters struggled mightily. Derrick Rose was minus-27 in 20 minutes,  ESPN reported. Jae Crowder was minus-24 in 24 minutes.
James finished with 26 points, 13 assists and two blocks, and a comparatively excellent minus-four. Somehow the point had been made, if not by James, then by Rose and Kevin Love and Crowder and everyone on the Cavaliers playing staff who can’t seem to raise their game to help James right now (Dwyane Wade was excellent off the bench with 25 points). And the question hangs in the air above Quicken Loans Arena: How long is an MVP candidate going to put up with this?


When Thomas Wolfe’s novel  You Can’t Go Home Again was published posthumously in 1940, the message was clear.
It tells the story of George Webber, a young aspiring author, whose latest book has numerous references to his home town Libya Hill. But on his return he is met with fury and outrage, and his home is no longer familiar.
Nostalgia, Wolfe suggests, can be a dangerous thing, one that can ruin fond memories when attempting to relive them. A pursuit that is doomed to failure, which brings us to Dwyane Wade’s move to the  Cleveland Cavaliers this summer.
Whispers that Wade would sign with the Cavs increased as he continued to spend time with longtime friend  LeBron James. Although never a Cleveland player, the biggest success of the veteran’s career came when he was alongside James.
The two men teamed up at the Miami Heat from 2010 through 2014, when James returned to the Cavaliers. In that time, they won two NBA championships together.
Related: Is Golden State considering trading Stephen Curry?
Dwyane Wade, left, and LeBron James at the Bradley Center, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, October 20.   Stacy Revere/Getty
Wade is in the autumn of his career and, as he turns 36 in January, there were suggestions he may not return to the court this summer. But the lure of playing with James once again was too much to resist. The chance to relive their success too tempting.
But it has not come to fruition so far. Not even close. After 10 games the Cavs are 4-6 and currently 12th in the Eastern Conference. They narrowly lost to the Atlanta Hawks at the Quicken Loans Arena on Sunday night, and Wade was already laying into teammates.
"I want one time for the first unit to get on the second unit because we blew a lead. I’m waiting for that day to happen,” Wade said, as quoted by  ESPN’s Dave McMenamin.
The starters, Wade suggests, are not playing well enough to give the bench crew a chance to get into the game, constantly having to fight back from a losing position.
But ESPN’s Brian Windhorst believes Cavs head coach Tyronn Lue never even intended to start Wade. “Dwyane Wade signed, and—not (because of) anything Dwyane did but—that arrival threw five or six people out of whack, including Ty Lue,” he told The Lowe Post podcast. “I’m not saying he would admit to this publicly, but he didn’t wanna start Dwyane. But he knew that he had to because it was the right thing to do for the chemistry of the team.
“He ended up starting five different lineups the first seven games. And it displaced JR Smith who pouted, and he’s playing terribly. The Derrick Rose arrival displaced a couple people—it displaced Kevin Love.”
So Wade may be in a stage of regret, in danger of ruining the memories, in a state of realization that you just can’t go home again.


Antonio Conte was probably unaware of the significance of the tie when fixture lists were released this summer. A trip up the M1 to the Hawthorns in November wouldn't have been the standout date in his calendar. In a month when Chelsea faces Manchester United and Liverpool, West Brom looked like the least of the Italian’s problems.
But given the history between the two, maybe he should be a little worried. Sure, anytime a team like  Chelsea prepares to take on a  resolute West Brom team coached by Tony Pulis, it will have to earn its victory. But Conte will have happy memories of his last visit. In May, his team secured the Premier League title on a Friday night in the Midlands. But for some of his predecessors, losses to the Baggies have proved to be the twilight of their career at  Chelsea.
In March 2012, a scrappy, late Gareth McAuley goal defeated Andre Villas-Boas’s Chelsea at the Hawthorns. Just 24 hours later, the  club’s owner, Roman Abramovich, sacked the Portuguese coach after just one win in seven games. Roberto Di Matteo stepped up, promoted from assistant coach to interim manager.
Of course, Di Matteo’s impact on the club will forever be etched into its history. His goals as a player secured two FA Cup trophies but, more importantly, his management saw the club win its first and only Champions League silverware—the trophy Abramovich truly pined for as owner.
Related:   Alvaro Morata on Texting José Mourinho and Antonio Conte Convincing Him to Choose Chelsea
Such success still bought Di Matteo little time. He took his Chelsea team to the Hawthorns on November 17, 2012, just five months after winning the European Cup, and lost 2-1 to the Baggies. It was the last Premier League game he oversaw for Chelsea, as Abramovich sacked him four days later after the team lost 3-0 to Juventus in the Champions League group stage.
José Mourinho's Chelsea was also embarrassed 3-0 at the Hawthorns in May 2015 but had already won the Premier League title. Seven months later, after a bad run following the trip to West Brom, Mourinho was out.
Will the tie prove fatal for Conte? All the noise around Stamford Bridge now is that the Italian’s future looks less than certain at Chelsea. A power play over the summer saw him fall out with key figures in the hierarchy in west London, with some  reports in Spain suggesting Abramovich was ready to wield the axe.
Conte has driven forward regardless. His players clearly still believe in him and his methods, compounded by the 1-0 win over title rival Manchester United at Stamford Bridge on Sunday. Conte outwitted his predecessor Mourinho; Chelsea would be foolish to let him go.
And, subject to an injury-free international break, Conte’s team will be approaching full fitness once again. He has Álvaro Morata back scoring goals and N’Golo Kanté back from injury and marshaling the midfield. At full strength, Chelsea looks like a force again in the Premier League.
Conte will go into the game at the Hawthorns just one point behind second-place Manchester United. Optimism has returned to west London, but he should beware the curse of the Hawthorns.


Colin Kaepernick, the National Football League’s lightning rod, continues to pursue litigation alleging collusion on the part of team owners.
On Sunday, ESPN reported that Roger Goodell will be deposed and asked to hand over all cellphone records and emails relating to Kaepernick, who began kneeling during the National Anthem in protest at perceived police brutality toward minorities in fall 2016. Among the owners deposed so far are some of the NFL’s most powerful, including the Cowboys’ Jerry Jones and the Patriots’ Robert Kraft. Jed York, the San Francisco 49ers owner, will also be deposed. Kaepernick led the 49ers to a Super Bowl appearance and an NFC Championship game in his time with the franchise before he opted out of his contract in March 2017 prior to being released. Kaepernick has not played a game in the NFL since.
In Kaepernick’s absence—not because of it directly, though as  Forbes pointed out last week, there may be a tangential connection—the NFL has struggled through the first nine weeks of the 2017 season. Aaron Rodgers, the league’s best quarterback bar maybe an ageless Tom Brady, went down for the season, in all probability, with a broken clavicle sustained against the Vikings. Andrew Luck will not see a football field for “months,” according to NFL.com, as he attempts rehab from shoulder surgery. Luck was placed on injured reserve by the Indianapolis Colts last week and won’t play an NFL game until the start of the 2018 season. The league’s best running back, Ezekiel Elliott, is at the epicenter of a convoluted legal battle over a suspended suspension for alleged domestic violence that could or could not cost him playoff appearances—no one really knows, not even the NFL. On the defensive side of the ball, we won’t see J.J. Watt until the start of the 2018 regular season, either.
Then, last week, Deshaun Watson—one of the rare bright spots for the NFL in the 2017 season—tore his ACL in practice. Watson was on pace to break all sorts of rookie records for a Texans franchise that has been screaming for a quarterback to match its dominant defense. In came Tom Savage for Watson and down went the Texans to a redundant Colts team. “What we saw with the Houston Texans on Sunday wasn't just a glimpse of life without Deshaun Watson,” Mike Freeman of  Bleacher Report wrote on Sunday. “It was a team wasting everything. Wasting its talent. Wasting its time. Wasting your time.”
"It's the most frustrating game of my career," Savage told the  Houston Chronicle. Frustrating, too, for Texans fans potentially watching another season slip away in the entirely winnable AFC South. Frustrating for Goodell, for whom a flawed product is hard to sell. Frustrating for the television networks that have to sell that product to the viewers. The rest of the week nine slate wasn’t much better. Andy Dalton just existed for the Bengals in a defeat to the Jaguars. The Chiefs’ loss to the Cowboys in Arlington was pretty fun, as was the Panthers’ narrow win over the Falcons, who look nothing like the team that blew a Super Bowl. The Rams are good and proved it again by pasting the Giants, but no one in L.A. seems to care about football and if a touchdown lands with no one there to see it, does it really count?
Quarterback Trevor Siemian of the Denver Broncos, left, with teammate Brock Osweiler, right, at Mile High, Denver, on October 15. The Broncos' offense has struggled with Siemian and Osweiler under center.   Justin Edmonds/Getty
But it may have been the Eagles’ blowout of the Broncos that encapsulated the NFL’s problem in 2017. “In a year without an overwhelming favorite, the Eagles are as close to dominance as the NFL has right now,” Judy Battista wrote for  NFL.com on Sunday. After Watson went down, Carson Wentz may be the NFL’s most exciting young quarterback, especially when compared with his counterpart under center on Sunday, Brock Osweiler. Handed another chance to be the Broncos’ starter, Osweiler threw for two interceptions and 208 yards. If anything—and almost unbelievably—the Broncos’ offense seems to be getting worse as the season goes on.
“This [Houston] is a team that has a legitimate chance to make the Super Bowl, and it could still make it with Kaepernick,” Freeman writes. Ditto, surely, for the Broncos had they pulled the plug on Trevor Siemian/Osweiler a few weeks ago. Both teams could ride all-worldly defenses and competent quarterback play through the playoffs. But for whatever reason, they continue to ignore Kaepernick. And the NFL’s product continues to suffer.


Radio phone-ins were surely made for fanatical football fans spitting hyperbole. And on Sunday, José Mourinho’s drab record against rival teams saw one supporter label his Manchester United team a “rich West Brom.”
Dialing in to BBC Radio Five Live, presented by Kelly Cates and joined by former Arsenal and England striker Ian Wright, the United fan was clearly irritated after seeing his team  fall to a 1-0 defeat at Stamford Bridge on Sunday.
Álvaro Morata’s headed goal saw United lose to  Antonio Conte’s Chelsea and slip 8 points behind  Premier League leader Manchester City, which beat Arsenal 3-1 earlier in the day.
After the game,  Mourinho’s record away to top six rivals was highlighted. Since January 2015, while still at Chelsea, the Portuguese coach had overseen six defeats and five draws in the big games on the road. 
Related:   Five Things We Learned as Alvaro Morata Rises High to Beat Mourinho’s Manchester United
“Mourinho has played 10 times against the top six: Five 0-0 draws, six defeats, and you know what we are at the end of the day, Kelly and Ian? We’re just a rich West Brom. That’s all we are. We’re playing boring, horrific football,” the caller said.
“We are a rich West Brom. When we are struggling, we bring on a tree in [Marouane] Fellaini and lump it forwards and hope for the best. We're not going anywhere.”
 
Mourinho’s awful away record against the PL ‘top 6’. Needs to change!#MUFC pic.twitter.com/7aLRZPMvdx
 

The comparison to West Brom taps into the widely held belief that Tony Pulis, the club’s manager, plays a negative style of football that is far from pleasing to the eye. He is viewed as a safe pair of hands, but don’t expect to be thrilled.
Unlike Pulis and West Brom, however, Mourinho was able to spend around £150 million (about $197 million) to strengthen his United squad this summer.
The caller added: “Where are we going with this team? We’re paying thousands of pounds to watch our team and we’re passing it backwards. We know what’s going to happen, it’s going to be 0-0 after 20 minutes.”
Take a look here:

The statistics get even worse for Mourinho as at both Chelsea and Manchester United his teams have scored just once in the last nine of those games; Wayne Rooney scored a 71st-minute goal at White Hart Lane in May when Tottenham was already 2-0 ahead.
But the coach insisted he had little concern. “I don’t know the number, I don’t know the quality. I was on the bench following the game and not counting. I think we had chances,” Mourinho said.
“If I remember, [Nemanja] Matić's header in the face of [Chelsea goalkeeper Thibaut] Courtois. If I remember, [Romelu] Lukaku's shot in the first half, and if I remember in the last part of the game, [Marcus] Rashford's shot and Courtois without any chance. The cross to the far post to Fellaini with the chest and the volley, and the consequence of that. We had lots of chances to score a goal.”
Just a rich West Brom? Mourinho would disagree. 
José Mourinho at Stamford Bridge, London, on November 5.   Shaun Botterill/Getty


David Luiz’s future at Chelsea looks increasingly uncertain after Antonio Conte dropped the Brazilian center back from the entire squad for Sunday’s victory against Manchester United.
Luiz sat in the stands behind the home dugout while  Danish defender Andreas Christensen was promoted to the  Chelsea back line against Jose Mourinho’s team.
Christensen provided a performance that justified Conte’s decision, with  Alvaro Morata’s goal the only goal of the game. Speaking after the match, the Italian coach suggested Luiz will remain on the sidelines.
Related:   Five things we learned as Alvaro Morata downs Jose Mourinho’s Manchester United
Here’s everything Conte had to say on the matter:
“Christensen is 22 years old, he showed great personality, for sure he is the present and the future for Chelsea, the same for [17-year-old Ethan] Ampadu,” Conte told Sky Sports.
“David Luiz has to work with the others if he deserves to play, otherwise he will stay on the bench or in the stands.”
David Luiz, center, and Tiemoue Bakayoko, right, at the Stadio Olimpico, Rome, October 31.   REUTERS/Stefano Rellandini
Related:   Alvaro Morata talks to Newsweek on texting Mourinho, his chance to join Manchester United and the impact of Conte
&quot;Christensen is the present &amp; future for Chelsea&quot;After Antonio Conte&#39;s comments, is time up for David Luiz (again)?https://t.co/lUW7GJbb3M pic.twitter.com/vzMfjMmtl3
In his post-match press conference, Conte was again asked about Luiz and to expand on his comments to the television cameras:
“I don’t know. He has to work really hard, otherwise they are on the bench or in the stand.” The Italian was subsequently asked to clarify those comments, and added: “It’s very simple, no? Very simple. The coach has to make the best decision for the team and tonight the best decision for the team was to play with Christensen and to have, on the bench, [Ethan] Ampadu. Another young player. A really good player for the present and the future.
“Maybe in the future I can decide a different way or continue in this way. That’s normal. I must take the best decision for the club, not for a single player. It’s only a tactical decision. It’s normal. This can happen to every one of my players, if I see they are not in good form. It’s normal. I repeat: I have to put my face to every situation and then sometimes to make important decisions. Today I did this and I think Christensen played a massive game. I was very happy for this.”
Victory saw Conte’s team go one point behind second-place Manchester United, but it also created an eight-point gap at the top of the Premier League table. Manchester City’s win against Arsenal earlier in the day means Pep Guardiola’s team has a hefty lead heading into the international break.


At full-time, José Mourinho stood at the top of the tunnel at Stamford Bridge, lingering, just as he had done two hours earlier. But the expression on his face was entirely different: swagger had been displaced by trauma. 
It may have been down to the realisation that Pep Guardiola and Manchester City now have an eight-point lead at the top of the Premier League. Or, possibly, how short his team had fallen in west London against a Chelsea team supposedly on the verge of crisis. But, just maybe, it was watching Antonio Conte, his new nemesis in England, striding straight onto the turf at full-time, ignoring the usual post-match pleasantries between managers. 
Conte’s players deserved his full praise. He hugged the impressive, immovable Andreas Christensen, promoted to the defense ahead of David Luiz, who was dropped from the squad entirely. He pulled N’Golo Kante into an embrace, clearly relieved at how the industrious midfielder had returned a balance to his team. And he thrust his arms around Álvaro Morata, the man who has helped paper over the cracks at Chelsea this season, and who provided the moment of class here to win this tie. 
When Morata made the £60 million move from Real Madrid to Chelsea in the summer, it was Cesar Azpilicueta who helped him settle in. He welcomed him to the Spanish contingency at the club’s Cobham training ground. He helped him find a temporary home in London. The two men have a clear bond, one that proved to be the difference just ten minutes into the second half. 
Alvaro Morata at Stamford Bridge in London, November 5.   ADRIAN DENNIS/AFP/Getty
Driving in-field, Azpilicueta delivered a whipped cross into the United area that found Morata, alone and unmarked. The striker rose high, arched his neck, and sent the ball back toward the far post, looping into the net. David de Gea in the United goal could only stand and watch. It was a sumptuous header, the type of skill that impressed Mourinho so much he gave Morata his debut at Real Madrid in 2010, and has seen the two men keep in touch ever since. Morata shouldn’t expect his next text from Mourinho too soon now, though. 
Related: Alvaro Morata on texting Jose Mourinho, his transfer options and working with Conte
This match ended up being the tight and tense clash that the Premier League was made famous for when Mourinho first arrived in English football. Fears that it would be the type of drab non-contest that he has been accused of creating lately, tactically nullifying games against title rivals, were unfounded. Within the first 10 minutes, both teams could and should have scored. 
Chelsea actually did in the sixth minute, but the goal was disallowed—a decision that appeared slightly unfair. Marcos Alonso’s cross was turned past De Gea by Phil Jones, but referee Anthony Taylor adjudged Morata to have fouled the England center-back. Two minutes later at the other end, Marcus Rashford found himself unmarked at the far post but headed over Thibaut Courtois’ crossbar. He should be studying footage of Morata this week, who has scored five of his eight goals for Chelsea via his head. 
Prior to kick-off though, the headline news had been Conte’s decision to drop Luiz, but also the return of Kante, who had been out injured since the start of October. Kante’s involvement returned a balance to Conte’s team. His industry and artistry provides a significant difference to Chelsea, giving Cesc Fabregas license to roam and freeing Tiemoue Bakayoko of the defensive responsibilities—which was clear in the first half. 
Fabregas was dictator in the middle of the field. He picked out Davide Zappacosta on the right wing who sent a cross that squirmed and skid through a crowd of players, falling to Bakayoko. He took his shot first time and sliced it wide. Minutes later, he picked up the ball again in United’s half but his shot, once again, failed to test De Gea. Chelsea was taking control of the game, dominating in possession. 
United’s best chance of the half came through Romelu Lukaku in the 16th minute. A cross ball was chested down by the Belgian striker, who shifted the ball to his right but his fierce drive was saved by the outstretched Courtois. Lukaku failed to impose himself on the game and the criticism begins to rise again on whether he can perform in the big games, having drawn a blank against Liverpool, Tottenham and now Chelsea. 
Conte’s team continued to create chances. Morata shot straight at De Gea after the half-hour mark and Christensen headed over from a Fabregas corner just before half-time. Conte simmered on the sideline but began to boil as his team spurned each opportunity. 
So when the goal came 10 minutes into the second half, the Italian threw his fists to the sky with relief. He punched the air at Morata’s eighth goal of the season. It was money well spent. 
"Antonio, Antonio," reverberated around Stamford Bridge. Mourinho reacted quickly. Within five minutes, he had Anthony Martial and Marouane Fellaini warmed up and ready to come on. The big Belgian’s impact was almost immediate when he knocked down to Rashford, but the 20-year-old’s shot was deflected to safety. Conte introduced Antonio Rudiger and removed Zappacosta which eased the impact of Fellaini. 
Fellaini’s lack of fitness was clear to see. He was caught in possession by Fabragas and Morata failed to convert the opportunity. Just 10 minutes later, it was Bakayoko who nicked the ball from Fellaini but shot wide. Mourinho and United were let off. 
The story could have been very different for Fellaini. But for the fingertips of Courtois, he would have been the hero, allowing Mourinho to take a point back to the north west of England. With only a minute to go, Fellaini sent a cross toward the bottom corner of the Chelsea goal but his countryman tipped away to safety. 
Mourinho's last switch saw Jesse Lingard introduced for Ashley Young but Conte responded by bringing on Danny Drinkwater for Fabregas, who receieved a standing ovation. United pushed in the final minutes but Chelsea held firm. It wasn't meant to be. 
Conte purred with excitement and Mourinho trudged back down the Stamford Bridge tunnel. This used to feel like home to him. 


Alvaro Morata scored a superb header to see Jose Mourinho lose a third consecutive game at Stamford Bridge and fall eight points behind Premier League leader Manchester City. 
The Spanish striker met a Cesar Azpilicueta cross in the 55th minute with a powerful header that looped over David de Gea and won the game for Chelsea with his eighth goal of the season.
City's 3-1 win over Arsenal earlier in the day meant United had to win in west London, but many now see the title race as practically over.  
Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho at Liberty Stadium, Swansea, Wales, October 24.   Michael Steele/Getty
Antonio Conte's team is within a point of Manchester United in the table now, in fourth. Here are five things Newsweek learned from the game:
It could have been any of Conte’s back line. So far this season the Chelsea defense has been a shadow of last season, with the trusty Cesar Azpilicueta showing signs of uncertainty and Gary Cahill prone to mistakes, but it was David Luiz who was cut. Not just from the team but the squad. A sign of how frustrated Conte has been this season with how his resolute defense of six months ago looks to be strangers. So in came the Dane Andreas Christensen, and fully justified it was. Composed and trustworthy, the 21-year-old kept the back line in order with Cahill to his left and Azpilicueta to his right. He could have even helped Chelsea at the other end when he headed over from a corner just before halftime. It will have made worrying viewing for Luiz, though. 
The memories of Chelsea fans will, Mourinho says, eventually fade. Before his second return to Stamford Bridge since becoming Manchester United manager, Mourinho insisted his time in west London will soon be forgotten and the significance of his return will wane. "In a couple of years it will be even more natural and in four or five years probably no one will remember that I was Chelsea manager and it becomes absolutely normal,” he said. But until then, he will make sure he’s remembered. Mourinho appeared from the tunnel at Stamford Bridge well before kick-off on Sunday, standing at the entrance. He greeted each and every Chelsea player as they arrived, and waited for Antonio Conte to shake hands, his dominance asserted. 
Related: Jose Mourinho still texts me and I could have joined Man United, Says Alvaro Morata 
In an interview with Newsweek this week, Álvaro Morata revealed that he could have been playing at Old Trafford this season and that he has remained in touch with Jose Mourinho, his former coach, via text message. “It’s good and I appreciate these things because he was my first coach,” Morata said, “but now he’s—not my enemy—my rival.” And so it proved to be, his bond with Mourinho insignificant when Cesar Azpilicueta delivered a whipped cross in the 55th minute. The friendship didn’t matter when Morata met the ball and sent it looping over a helpless David de Gea and into the net. 
Moments after Chelsea took the lead, Mourinho was ready to react Marouane Fellaini and Anthony Martial was prepared and sent on to Phil Jones and Henrikh Mkhitaryan, the intention clear. Immediately, United began to send the ball up toward the fluffy frame of Fellaini. Marcus Rashford almost benefitted when the towering Belgian knocked the ball down to him, only to see his shot deflected away. Fellaini’s cameo was short and rather painful. Although not fully fit, the Belgian was booked for catching Morata with an elbow and almost allowed Chelsea to double the lead when Bakayoko nicked the ball from him but sent his effort wide. The story could have been entirely different, though, as Thibaut Courtois saved low from a Fellaini shot with just a minute remaining. 
The headline news for Antonio Conte ahead of kick-off was the return of N’Golo Kante to his starting line-up. Kante has watched from the sidelines for almost a month as Chelsea verged on implosion; the defeat to Crystal Place, fortunate victory over Watford and embarrassment in Rome. And his importance to this team was clear on Sunday. Not only his industrious nature in midfield that saw United overwhelmed and outnumbered, but his link to attack. He is both the pen and eraser. Romelu Lukaku was given the job to reduce his impact, Mourinho imploring the Belgian striker to drop in onto Kante when Chelsea had possession. 


Adebayo Akinfenwa has become a cult icon in the footballing world, with a big personality and even bigger biceps.
He rose to fame in youth culture after his rating as the strongest player on FIFA, the vastly popular football simulation video game, and procured the name ‘The Beast’ due to his size and power. His time playing for Wimbledon AFC grabbed the nation’s attention with an FA Cup-run reaching the third round in 2015 and then a promotion winning penalty in 2016.
So he is no stranger to the spotlight, despite playing in lower leagues for most of his career. Which is why he gives the strong sense he really enjoys the publicity surrounding his autobiography, The Beast: My Story, published this week.
“It’s just become life, I prefer to be busy than not busy,” the Wycombe Wanderers striker told Newsweek.
“Putting my life on a piece of paper, it’s mad for people to want to read it.”
As a life-long Liverpool supporter, Akinfenwa was delighted that Liverpool legend Steven Gerrard contributed to the book.
“For one of England’s best ever players to write a foreword for my book, I would hope that that would inspire people to say you know what the sky is not the limit and anything can happen. For me, it’s humbling in that sense.”
Adebayo Akinfenwa at the Wycombe Wanderers FC Training Ground, High Wycombe, England, January 26.   Jordan Mansfield/Getty
The striker has joked about his frustration with FIFA after he scored 18 goals last season and yet his stats on the videogame had not improved this year.
“That’s what’s driving me you know! The aim out here is to try and beat 18!”
On the videogame he revealed he always plays with whatever team he is currently playing for in real life, so that he can play as himself.
“I shout at myself all the time! I put myself on corners and free kicks just to see how it feels to take dead balls because I’m never good enough to take them in real life!”
When asked who his dream strike partner would be, Akinfenwa unsurprisingly named Lionel Messi, the five-time Ballon D’Or winner and arguably the best player in the world. In terms of who he thinks would suit his style of play, Leicester City striker Jamie Vardy was his choice though.
“If I were to say someone who would complement me, it would have to be someone really quick because he’d have to do my running for me! I do think me and Vardy would work well together, just because his whole game is about running in behind and it works well when you’ve got someone who is – well I won’t say I’m slow but let’s just say I’m less fast – and someone who is faster!”
The Wycombe wonder clearly knows his strengths and weaknesses. Now 35, Akinfenwa has had a long career in football, an aspect he is grateful for.
“Sometimes you’re not blessed with the materialistic stuff but you’re blessed with a work ethic,” he said, attributing his determination to his upbringing.
The striker was born and raised in Islington, London, and grew up in a council estate. He says football is all he knew from the age of five, when he would play every day until his feet hurt. His work ethic and discipline was instilled in him from a young age by his parents.  
“I think you’re a product of your environment so I will be teaching my kids the same that you can strive to achieve whatever you need to achieve but it doesn’t come easy, you have to put in the work.”
Akinfenwa has been putting in the work for almost 18 years now and is conscious of people categorising him as ‘past it’.
“I’m feeling good and I’m still scoring goals so it’s a mind-set for me – don’t allow anyone to put you in boxes and keep defying limitations,” he says.
“I’m no spring chicken but as long as I feel good mentally and physically I’ll keep playing as long as possible.”
Mentality is one of his main focuses in life and he has now put plans in motion for a footballing academy and a mentoring scheme to help young people across London deal with the trials and tribulations of trying to make it in the game, open to “any and everybody who wants to play football.”
Set to start in summer 2018, Akinfenwa said psychological mentoring will play a crucial role in what he teaches the youngsters.
“I feel that the mind is as important as ability in the body,” he says.
“People concentrate on ‘oh you can’t do that’, or ‘you’re a bit too big for that’ or whatever, rather than just concentrating on what you’re good at.
“It’s about being comfortable with the skin you’re in, being comfortable within your own mind.”
His philosophical attitude may stem from his long stint in the game, playing for 13 clubs to date including teams in England, Wales, and Lithuania. As a footballer in the autumn of his career he feels he can now give something back to the sport.
“I do think there is a responsibility for myself as being a senior professional footballer to be able to pass on my experiences to the younger generation.
“As a leader, as a way to try and channel and get the best out of people, I think I’m pretty good at that.”
However, Akinfenwa is also known for not taking life too seriously and advocating the lighter side of sport.
“For the last four years I’ve really tried to embrace the enjoyment of football, I know sooner or later I’m going to hang up my boots.
“As long as I’m enjoying it I’ll keep putting my body through it.”
Another sport he feels he would enjoy is American football and supports Miami Dolphins.
“I’m a real fan, the last couple of years I’ve been learning and I’ve been watching and the atmosphere is insane. I’ve played in a play-off final, I’ve watched the FA Cup final and then I watched just a normal NFL game and you would think it was a final because the atmosphere was so electrifying.
“I think I would have held my own in the NFL… but I like being the biggest on the pitch so I’ll stick to football!”
Akinfenwa certainly is the biggest on any pitch he walks on, but his character off the pitch is just as giant, moulded by the experiences of many years in the footballing trade and a career including lows as well as highs.
Adebayo Akinfenwa's book, The Beast: My Story, details his life and is available from booksellers across the U.K. and online. 


Álvaro Morata sits at a table in a large conference room just behind the Shed End at Stamford Bridge, a pensive look on his face. He is weighing up the differences between two of the most influential managers of his short career: José Mourinho, the man who gave him his first chance at Real Madrid in 2010, and Antonio Conte, who signed him for Juventus in 2014 and then made him the most expensive player in Chelsea’s history this summer.
A wry smile. “Antonio has the long hair, blue eyes!” he says, before bursting into laughter. “No, they’re two kinds of coaches; they’re different. Both are winners but different in character. It’s wonderful playing with Mourinho and winning with Mourinho [but] now it’s time to try to win with Antonio. It’s a wonderful opportunity.”
And it is an opportunity that, so far, he has thrived upon. Despite his hefty £60 million cost to  Chelsea, charged with replacing  Diego Costa as the main striker at Stamford Bridge, Morata has excelled under the pressure. While  Chelsea may, at times, miss the domineering style of Costa, Morata has added a touch of class to Conte’s attack, developing a natural partnership with Eden Hazard.
The Spaniard, a double Champions League winner who only turned 25 last week, scored seven times in his first eight appearances in  Conte’s team—the last coming in September at the Wanda Metropolitano when Chelsea pulled off an impressive victory against Atletico Madrid in the Champions League. But a lot has changed since then. A hamstring injury saw  Morata limp out of the 1-0 defeat to Manchester City in September and watch the shock 2-1 loss to Crystal Palace from the sidelines.
Related:   Jose Mourinho wants Manchester United to swoop for Chelsea star
Alvaro Morata at the Olympic stadium, Rome, Italy, October 30.   ALBERTO PIZZOLI/AFP/Getty
Despite winning the Premier League title just six months ago, Conte’s future at Chelsea is suddenly in doubt, especially after his team was humbled by a 3-0 defeat to Roma in the Champions League on Tuesday. But Morata’s soft voice reflects his message: He is calm and thoughtful, ignoring the hyperbole outside the club. “Unfortunately,” he says, “football is like this: When we take the three points at Atletico we are one of the best teams in Europe, and this week we lose against a very good team and they think the world ends.”
Chelsea will still likely advance to the knockout stages of the competition as it is four points ahead of third-place Atletico in Group C, but that hasn’t stopped the storm cloud forming above Stamford Bridge. This is not the first time Morata has experienced a tough night on the European stage, though. He recalls an October evening in Athens in 2014 when he and Juventus looked to be heading out of the competition after two defeats from the first three games of the group stage. “I remember when I was at Juventus we lost against Olympiakos and we were in a worse position than we are after this loss against Roma. That year, we arrived in the final [but lost to Barcelona]. It doesn’t matter. The most important thing is to be in the next round.”
Morata and Chelsea must quickly switch their attention back to the Premier League, for on Sunday a familiar face will step out of the tunnel at Stamford Bridge and into the away dugout. Mourinho’s Manchester United travel to west London with 10 wins in the last 12 games, and Morata could well have found himself in the away dressing room this weekend.
“I had the chance to go to Manchester United and other teams in the Premier League,” he says. “The important thing is I’m part of Chelsea and I’m very happy with this and now it’s time to fight for the blue shirt. I want to play well and win with this shirt.”  
Angel Di Maria, left, Jose Mourinho, center, and Alvaro Morata at Valdebebas training ground, Madrid, Spain, April 29.   Gonzalo Arroyo Moreno/Bongarts/Getty
While Morata recognizes the need for victory this weekend, he remains close to his former coach. Mourinho is known to stay in touch with players even after they part ways; he called Costa this summer during his exile at Chelsea; he texted Romelu Lukaku when he signed for Everton. Is that the case with Morata as well? “Yeah,” he says. “Not only this summer. I have a good relationship with Jose. He was my first coach in professional football and he gave me the chance to be a professional. He made me the first contact. Sometimes we send messages but not speaking about football, asking if everything’s OK and some jokes.
“It’s good and I appreciate these things because he was my first coach, but now he’s—not my enemy—my rival. We need to win.” The worry for Mourinho, however, is how much Morata will be keen to impress him on Sunday.
Kick-off?  11.30 a.m. Eastern Time
Channel?  NBCSN
Live stream?   Fubo Premier (seven-day free trial)


The Banana Boat Photo has become NBA canon, part of the lexicon of the league and something immediately recognizable to people who pay attention to (and crack jokes about) hoops.
For the remaining few who are uninitiated, the picture shows actress Gabrielle Union and NBA superstars Dwyane Wade (Union's husband), Chris Paul and LeBron James all sitting in an inflatable banana boat, ready to be tugged along the water. The group was on vacation together in the summer of 2015 and decided to take an excursion off their yacht. The photo became an instant internet sensation because it showed these untouchable stars—all of which are massively wealthy and talented as well as effortlessly cool—looking, well, kind of dorky. 
The photo, which was snapped surreptitiously by a photographer, still comes up in interviews with those involved, including Union in the most recent episode of First We Feast's Hot Ones, which features stars being interviewed as they eat chicken wings laced with increasingly spicy sauces. (Newsweek recently published a story on Complex Networks, which owns First We Feast, that you can read here.)

"Whose idea was it? Who put the credit card down? Was it as much fun as it looked?" asked host Sean Evans.
Union can certainly spin a tale. Much of her answer dripping with sarcasm, she explained how she'd actually planned the activity and that the photographer missed the best part: the group of NBA superstars and the leading actress tumbling into the water. Here's what she told Evans:
“I will take credit for the banana boat fiasco or glory, depending on how you look at it. The first year that we started going on the couple trip, LeBron and Savannah [James], they chose the boat, they chose the location, and that boat had all kinds of bells and whistles. There was, like, a three-story slide into the ocean, they had jet skis and then they had other inflatable toys that could be pulled because this smaller boat called the tender. So I saw that banana boat and I wanted to ride it… I was like, ‘Who’s coming with me?’ And none of the girls wanted to go. So I had to try to convince Bron and D and CP to get on the banana boat. It took some convincing. Though we had not been photographed, everyone was convinced we were being surveilled. And I was like, ‘No, not everyone cares about us guys. No one is gonna see us. And if anyone is coming down the slide or dancing or whatever, we’re safe. Get over yourselves.’ So we mount the banana boat, I am in front, then my spouse, then I think it’s CP [and LeBron]. Then what they did not capture was actually the best part. Once we had all mounted the banana, that boat took off and no one was really prepared. We were there for the initial jolt, and then [the driver] hung a hard left and we flew off and landed, side-face first, like [claps loudly]. All of us were like, ‘Fuck, fuck, fuck,’ like that’s all you heard in the water. It hurt, it was painful, but magically, [photographers] only got us astride.”
Of course, despite Union's assertions, the picture got out, and the NBA stars ribbed her about it. NBA fans made their jokes, and many still refer to that group of superstars as the "banana boat crew." 
James and Wade, who were once teammates in Miami, joined forces again this season on the Cleveland Cavaliers. The full interview with Union goes into their friendship, Union's impressive career in Hollywood and her own high school career on the basketball court. You can watch it embedded below.



The college basketball season begins Friday, November 10, amid fallout from an ongoing FBI investigation into alleged bribery among coaching staffs at several of the nation’s top schools.
But the hype, expectations and excitement—all the stuff those schools would probably be really happy to focus on—is already with us, courtesy of the preseason rankings.
How do the nation’s best basketball analysts see Duke’s chances of fulfilling the lofty achievements expected of it? Will the recruiting scandal affect highly-rated Arizona? Read below to find out.
The Associated Press
AP has Duke ranked first in the country, followed by Michigan State, Arizona and Kansas. The Wildcats round out the top five.  NCAA.com has a word of warning, though: While it’s hard to argue against Duke’s No. 1 ranking, Duke was ranked first going into the 2016-17 season, too, and lost in the second round to South Carolina. The Gamecocks, who lost in the Final Four to Gonzaga on April 1, are unranked. In a national media poll published Wednesday, Duke, which will start the season with the top-ranked recruit in the nation, Marvin Bagley III, received 33 of 65 first-place votes, according to  ESPN. North Carolina, the defending national champion, will begin the season ranked ninth.
ESPN
John Gasaway’s exhaustive and labyrinthine effort makes the AP Top 25 look like a comic strip next to  War and Peace. In a piece for ESPN Insider published Friday, and via some methodology you can read about  here, Gasaway comes out with Arizona, followed by Wichita State, followed by Duke. Michigan State and Villanova round out his top five. Gasaway’s 351st-and-last ranked team in the nation? Mississippi Valley State Delta Devils. This is some piece of work.
Sports Illustrated
SI has also produced an impeccably comprehensive list of all 351 teams in college ball this season. Claiming its rankings have been “more accurate than similar 1–351 rankings produced by ESPN, CBS Sports and noted analyst Ken Pomeroy for three consecutive years,” and using a combination of “college and AAU statistics, recruiting rankings and coaching data,” SI places Arizona first in the country, followed by Michigan State, Duke and Wichita State. SI’s reasoning for Duke only being third-ranked? “Even if Bagley is as gifted as scouting reports imply, this is still a young team, and SI’s model isn’t looking past head coach Mike Krzyzewski’s less-than-stellar track record coaching defense in recent seasons,” the publication opines.
Ken Pomeroy
The noted basketball analyst lists his ranking for 2017-18 on his website  here. As usual, Pomeroy has crunched a volume of data that would make mere mortals feel a little queasy. At the end of it all, he lists Villanova as his top team in the nation. Arizona is third, Duke a relatively lowly sixth. Gonzaga, fresh off a loss in the national championship game, is down in 20th.


Top of the Eastern Conference and on a six-game winning streak, life has been pretty good for Kyrie Irving since he traded Cleveland for Boston.
After three years in  LeBron James’ shadow, Irving was part of the summer’s most sensational trade, joining the Celtics from the Cavaliers with  Isaiah Thomas going the other way.
But the 25-year-old point guard has clearly shown flashes of resentment toward his former team. He was fined $25,000 last month for lashing out at a  fan who taunted him about James, and snapped at reporters when asked whether he had  spoken to James about leaving the Cavs.
And, now, it seems he has subtly criticized Tyronn Lue, his former coach in Cleveland, by describing Brad Stevens of the Celtics as the kind of coach he had been “unbelievably craving.”
“Brad fits perfectly in terms of that because he has an intellectual mind and is an intellectual human being,” Irving told Geno Auriemma on the  Holding Court podcast. “It was something I was unbelievably craving in terms of what I wanted for my career.”
Related:   LeBron James is still driving Kyrie Irving mad
Kyrie Irving at the Wells Fargo Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, October 20.   Mitchell Leff/Getty
Stevens is widely regarded as one of the brightest young coaches in the league since he took over the Celtics in 2013, a sentiment shared by Gregg Popovich, who knows a thing or two about great coaching.
“He’s going to be a great one before it’s all over with, and he’s already a hell of a coach,” the San Antonio Spurs coach said.
The Cavs, meanwhile, have struggled without Irving, and with Thomas likely to be sidelined with injury until the new year. The team is 13th in the Eastern Conference and currently on a four-game losing streak.
The latest defeat came against the Indiana Pacers on Wednesday, ending 124-107 at the Quicken Loans Arena. “It’s a new month,” James said, as quoted by  ESPN. “We have an opportunity to be very good and then you see some of the lulls that we have and it's just very difficult on our team right now.
"We're just trying to figure it out on the fly. So, our team is kind of depleted as well, both on and off the floor."


Coaching at an elite level, we are regularly assured, is an awful lot about making the tough and unfriendly decisions about individuals in order to improve the prospects of the collective.
Like benching Lonzo Ball, for instance?
On Thursday night at Moda Center in Portland, the Lakers lost for the fifth time this season, on a three-pointer by Damian Lillard as time expired. Lillard, a two-time All Star, finished with 32 points, six rebounds and five assists—the kind of numbers you expect regularly from an elite point guard eight games into his sixth NBA season.
And Ball? Ball, in his eighth game of a rookie season that has soared, occasionally, and explored the hinterland of rough promise, sometimes, was held to zero points.
Nul points, as they tell the United Kingdom at the Eurovision Song Contest, or the Brexit negotiations, as that discordant musical show has come to be known. Ball attempted two shots, according to  ESPN, missed both of them, and ended the game with four assists, three rebounds, two blocks and a steal. That the Lakers pushed the Trail Blazers into the final second of the game was mostly down to Ball’s supporting cast. Brook Lopez led the Lakers in scoring with 27 points. Brandon Ingram and Kentavious Caldwell-Pope chipped in with 14 each, Jordan Clarkson too. Since he broke out with 29 points against the Phoenix Suns on October 21, Ball’s points per game have read eight, six, five, nine, 13, and nada. In the Lakers’ past two games, and past two losses, against the Pistons and Trail Blazers, Ball has played 28 minutes in each and attempted four three-pointers in total, hitting one.
"I thought he was a little too passive tonight," Luke Walton, the Lakers head coach, said after the defeat as reported by  ESPN. "I think that'll continue to be [an area to work on]. The hardest thing for young players is the consistency when you just play so many games. He's so unselfish. We want him to be more aggressive with attacking the defenses. I feel like tonight was one of those nights where he was more passive with it than looking to really attack them."
Points totals can fail to tell the whole story, especially with a facilitator like the Lakers’ rookie. Ball was a plus-10 in his 28 minutes of action on Thursday night—even when he is struggling to be noticed offensively, there is evidence to suggest he is improving the players around him. There were moments against the Trail Blazers—as there have been throughout the season—when Ball flashed the kind of promise that Walton and the Lakers hope will become consistent excellence. You can watch one slick feed to Lopez in the video below.
 
&quot;A great feed by Lonzo Ball&quot; #LakeShow(_: TNT) pic.twitter.com/Tf11RKer2K
 

The Lakers have stressed regularly that this season is about Ball, and the Lakers, showing off enough rough promise to convince interested parties—impending free agents among them—that the franchise is on track to contend again. The hype around Ball, though, means stat lines like Thursday night’s are going to be noticed and blown up in widescreen and feed the ravenous desire to polarize Ball’s abilities and achievements. Maybe it’s time for Walton to take Ball out from under the NBA’s sunlamp. Then again, maybe that would just increase the feeding frenzy.


Antonio Conte is set to become the ninth manager sacked during the Roman Abramovich era at Chelsea, despite winning the Premier League title six months ago, according to reports.
Conte led  Chelsea to a surprise championship in his first season in English football after suffering a poor start, but rumors of rifts and poor results have followed this season.
The Italian was reportedly unhappy with the transfer business the club completed over the summer, missing out on Fernando Llorente and Antonio Candreva.
And now, it seems, Abramovich has once again seen enough. According to Spanish newspaper  Marca, the ruthless Russian has already decided that he is ready to sack Conte and is not even on speaking terms with him.
But his second season at the club has been far from a disaster.  Chelsea is fourth in the Premier League, nine points short of Pep Guardiola’s rampant Manchester City, but looks set for the knockout stage of the Champions League.
Related: Jose Mourinho wants Manchester United to swoop for Chelsea star
Antonio Conte at Stadio Olimpico, Rome, Italy, October 31.   Paolo Bruno/Getty
Chelsea beat Atletico Madrid at the Wanda Metropolitano last month but a disastrous 3-0 defeat away to Roma on Tuesday sent dark clouds over Stamford Bridge.
Conte’s opportunity to lift them comes on Sunday, ironically against  Manchester United and  Jose Mourinho, the last man Abramovich sacked as Chelsea manager—for the second time—in December 2015.
Mourinho, like Conte, had won the Premier League the previous year but player unrest and an alarming slide down the table saw Abramovich act early and bring in Guus Hiddink as interim manager.
Abramovich has a track-record in English football for being relentless with managers. His ultimate aim, winning the Champions League, was achieved in May 2012 by Roberto di Matteo. Six months later, he was sacked and replaced by Rafael Benitez.
Before them, Carlo Ancelotti won the double with Chelsea in 2010, his first season at the club, but was sacked the following season after finishing second in the table. 


The end doesn’t come suddenly. That would be too easy, too clean and too painless. One day you’re here, and the next you’re not—no. Sport may be a metaphor for death but death is mostly unlike sport, or the opposite way around. Even the noblest declines have a malingering quality—unavoidable and inevitable, maybe, with a kind of death that presages another life.
"This was probably the worst training camp for me in my career because of the injury," LeBron James told  ESPN on Wednesday morning, before the Cleveland Cavaliers hosted the Indiana Pacers at Quicken Loans Arena. "I didn't get an opportunity to do the things that I like to do and with the summer that I had, I kind of had a setback."
James was talking about a left ankle sprain he suffered in September, that caused him to miss four of the Cavaliers’ five preseason games. It wasn't always this way—so much so that one wonders, as may be de rigeur in 2017, quite which version of the truth to believe. "This is one of the best offseasons I've had in my career," James said on September 26. "And I'm extremely excited."
On Wednesday night the Cavaliers got beaten for the fifth time in eight games this season, by a Pacers team that now lacks Paul George, that’s meant to be shuffling somewhere in the middle of the deck of the Eastern Conference, maybe around that eighth seed at best, certainly craning its neck up at the regal Cavaliers led by their King, James.
"We have an opportunity to be very good and then you see some of the lulls that we have and it's just very difficult on our team right now," James told  ESPN on Wednesday night. "We're just trying to figure it out on the fly. So, our team is kind of depleted as well, both on and off the floor." Tristan Thompson limped out of that Pacers loss with a left calf strain. Isaiah Thomas won’t be seen on a basketball court in Cleveland until January, at the earliest. Kyrie Irving’s Celtics are 6-2, younger, faster, more dynamic than the Cavaliers, further into a rebuild and, maybe, closer to a Championship too. Extraneous, maybe, to anyone who doesn’t have a claim of being the greatest basketball player of all time.
The start of the end comes with little white lies, maybe, to convince yourself that everything is going to be as it always was. Maybe it comes when you find yourself playing on a team that can’t manage defense, regularly giving up more than 100 points, with a starting point guard you can only watch through your fingers. A team that you have to carry at a stage of your career when it should be at least pulling as much weight as your 32-year-old body.
James is averaging 24.6 points per game, 7.1 rebounds and 8.6 assists. James has played all over the court, including at point guard, just to haul the Cavaliers to 3-5.
He hasn’t even begun the great malingering decline. So how bad are the Cavaliers going to be when he does?


There was little surprise when, at the end of last season, as Stephen Curry entered free agency he decided to re-sign with the Golden State Warriors.
Curry had just won his second championship in three years with the Warriors, easing to a 4-1 win in the NBA Finals against  LeBron James and the  Cleveland Cavaliers.
Signing a new deal and committing his future to  Golden State seemed inevitable, and so followed his $201 million five-year contract.
There is, however, a pang of doubt about whether Curry will make it to 2022 with the Warriors, especially after the team refused one of his requests during the negotiations.
Curry wanted a no-trade clause included in his new deal but Golden State declined, according to  Marcus Thompson of  The Athletic, and author of Golden: The Miraculous Rise of Stephen Curry.
Related:   Popovich for president? Warriors want the Spurs coach to run against Trump in 2020
Stephen Curry at ORACLE Arena, Oakland, California, October 17.   Ezra Shaw/Getty
The 29-year-old, according to Thompson, also preferred that the fifth year of the deal be a player option. Again, the Warriors refused his request.
Curry, a four-time All Star, has been at the center of the Warriors’ success over the past few years, but the fact he will be 34 by the time his contract expires is clearly in the minds of those at Golden State.
So, are the Warriors considering trading Curry? For the time being, certainly not. After giving him such a bumper contract they now need him to deliver.
The team is sixth in the Western Conference after a slow start to the season with losses to the Rockets, Grizzlies and Pistons. But on Monday they beat the Western Conference-leading LA Clippers with a resounding win at Staples Center.
“Our defensive effort really got us to where we wanted to be,” Curry said, as quoted by  Associated Press. “The coach gave us a challenge before the game to just try and win the possession and field-goal game. Throughout the course of the game, that was the key. We played Warriors basketball and now we have to sustain it.”
On Thursday, they travel to the AT&T Center in San Antonio to take on Gregg Popovich and the Spurs.


In the biggest moment of his career, on the grandest stage, under the brightest lights, Yu Darvish failed in a way that is unlikely ever to be forgotten by the Los Angeles Dodgers, Houston Astros or anyone with even a remote interest in baseball.
Darvish, a four-time All-Star, gave up five runs to the Astros on Wednesday night, bringing to a dramatic conclusion one of the finest World Series in modern collective memory. By the time Darvish was finished, having registered only five outs and failing to complete the second inning—having thrown 47 pitches and given up a home run to George Springer with his 47th and last pitch of the game, “almost certainly the last one he’ll throw as a Dodger,”  ESPN opined while sifting through the debris—the game was pretty much up. Clayton Kershaw came in and pitched four scoreless innings, leading to predictable howls about why he hadn’t started. But the Astros got lights-out pitching all the way through, and their young hitters delivered in the clutch for their first-ever title, leaving the Dodgers to contemplate a 104-win regular season and the biggest payroll in Major League Baseball alongside a loss that will burn, sting and hurt like a deep bruise for years to come.
“Darvish did the unimaginable and inexcusable, following one historically atrocious start with another,” the  Los Angeles Times wrote Wednesday night, when the bruises were still coming up purple all over Dodger Stadium. Darvish went 0-2 in the World Series, his Game 7 debacle following up a Game 3 start where he threw 49 pitches, lasted one-and-two-thirds innings and gave up four runs at Minute Maid Park, where he had a previously impeccable record. The Astros wouldn’t fall behind again in the Series. The man the Dodgers acquired in July to hop them over the hump ended up tripping over his own obstacles.
Yu Darvish of the Los Angeles Dodgers in Game 7 of the 2017 World Series, at Dodger Stadium in California on November 1. Darvish pitched two bad games against the Astros.   Tim Bradbury/Getty
It happens, doesn’t it? Was it really “unimaginable?” Well, Kershaw pitched a horrible Game 5, as the  L.A. Times noted in the same article. The idea that a human could malfunction under this kind of stress test hardly seems inconceivable. “Inexcusable?” That’s the funny thing about professional sports, a postmodern magnifying glass where everything matters completely, totally, fatally, and simultaneously doesn’t really matter at all. “Games like this can happen to anyone,” the  L.A. Times wrote. Quite. It’s baseball, a game, fun and frolics on a Wednesday night. It’s Game 7, the most important moment of the life of anyone involved, for those hours at least, the hours they will be remembered for forever on film. Schrödinger should have been given a free ticket in the plushest seats at Dodger Stadium on Wednesday evening.
“Everyone has really awful days,” Darvish said, in quotes reported by the  L.A. Times on Wednesday. “When I have an awful day, what I think about is how for every awful day I’ve had, I’ve had a great day and I’ve added another wonderful person to my life. When I think like that, it’s easier. But what I did today affected everyone on the Dodgers, so I don’t know if that’s going to work.”
Even those deep-purple bruises heal. It’s easy to forget—the  Times seemed to—how cruel this Series was on Darvish. In Game 3, he was the subject of a racist taunt from Yuli Gurriel after the Astros first baseman struck a home run off of Darvish. There’s a legitimate question as to whether Gurriel should even have played the rest of the Series; some grim poetry, maybe, in Darvish having to watch on as Corey Seager hit a ground ball to Jose Altuve, who threw to Gurriel to end an epic in seven acts.
“I would like to return here with the Dodgers,” Darvish said after the game. Do the Dodgers have capacity for forgiveness and its second cousin, redemption? With their wounds still open, can they see Game 7 for what it was—a game of baseball? If so, Darvish may get another chance in L.A.


NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell proved Tuesday that he either doesn't understand or won't acknowledge the true cause of the national anthem protests that have drawn President Donald Trump's anger. 
Goodell circulated a letter around the league saying he wanted players to stand during the pre-game national anthem, in effect ending the protests that were first started by quarterback Colin Kaepernick. But something was conspicuously absent from the note sent to all 32 NFL teams—any mention of what the protests are actually about. The commissioner does his best to avoid discussion of police brutality and the oppression of black people in America, instead insisting players are addressing vague "issues."
"I am very proud of our players and owners who have done the hard work over the past year to listen, understand and attempt to address the underlying issues within their community," Goodell wrote in the second paragraph of the letter (emphasis added). 
"We also care deeply about our players and respect their opinions and concerns about critical social issues," he wrote. "The controversy over the anthem is a barrier to having honest conversations and making real progress on the underlying issues. We need to move past this controversy, and we want to do that together with our players."
Commissioner of the National Football League Roger Goodell looks on prior to a game between the Los Angeles Chargers and the Philadelphia Eagles at StubHub Center on October 1 in Carson, California.   Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images
The letter from Goodell only hints at the larger problem as the protests have garnered more national attention amid Trump's many broadsides. The demonstrations have been cast as a referendum on patriotism, the military, the flag, the anthem, the president or countless other things that were never the point. But, to steal Goodell's phrase, the real issue is, and always has been, the oppression of black people in America.
San Francisco 49er Eric Reid has been taking a knee since just about the time former teammate Kaepernick began the demonstration last year. He has been very clear about what the protests mean. 
"I have the utmost respect for the military, for the anthem, for the flag. So I will say that every time ya’ll interview me," Reid told reporters after his game this weekend, which Vice President Mike Pence walked out of, claiming he was offended by the protesters. "This is about systemic oppression that has been rampant in this country for decades on top of decades. And I will continue to say and encourage people to educate themselves of how we got to where are today, because it didn’t happen overnight."
That's what Kaepernick began kneeling for and what the protests have been about ever since—even if the president inspired more folks to take a stand by calling anyone who kneeled a "son of a bitch."
"I'm going to continue to stand with the people that are being oppressed. To me, this is something that has to change," Kaepernick said when he was first asked about his protest.
But it appears owners, the vast majority of whom are white men, have grown tired of the protests. The Dallas Cowboys' Jerry Jones said he would bench any player who didn't stand for the anthem, and ESPN wrote "many NFL owners have grown concerned about the appearance of unpatriotic acts." The league power brokers are now considering a rule mandating that players stand during the anthem, exactly as Trump demanded in one of his many tweets slamming the NFL.
But even if the kneeling is forced to go, the issues remain. Just don't Roger Goodell what they are. 


After Friday’s victory over Panama, the pressure on Bruce Arena’s USMNT has been relieved somewhat, but they still have one hurdle to jump to reach next year’s World Cup.
On Tuesday night, at 8 p.m. Eastern Time, the U.S. men’s team takes on Trinidad and Tobago in the final game of the qualification stage before confirming their place at Russia 2018.
Arena’s team won the crucial game against Panama on Friday night at the Orlando City Stadium 4-0, with goals from Christian Pulisic, Jozy Altidore and Bobby Wood.
Jozy Altidore at Orlando City Stadium, Orlando, Florida, October 6.   Sam Greenwood/Getty
The USMNT leapfrogged Panama and now sits third in the group, in the final automatic qualification place, behind first-place Mexico and Costa Rica which are already through.
Anything but defeat—and even that may be enough—should confirm the USMNT’s place at the World Cup next year. The game is being shown live on television on beIN Sports, with coverage starting at 7.50 p.m., while it can also be streamed at  fuboTV.


Donald Trump launched into a new tack in his battle with the NFL on Tuesday morning, demanding the league’s “massive tax breaks” be taken away if its players keep protesting during the national anthem.
“Why is the NFL getting massive tax breaks while at the same time disrespecting our Anthem, Flag and Country? Change tax law!” Trump tweeted. In another tweet, posted late on Monday evening, Trump had praised Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones for stating that he would not tolerate kneeling while the “Star-Spangled Banner” plays before NFL games.
It’s all part of the long-running dispute Trump has been engaged in with the NFL since he told a rally in Alabama on September 22 that NFL players should be “fired” if they knelt during the anthem. The practice has caught on since it was started by Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback, at the start of the 2016-17 regular season in protest at police brutality against black people in the U.S.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell called Trump’s comments “divisive,” while Trump has continued to retaliate by taking jabs at the league’s television ratings. On Sunday, Vice President Mike Pence left the game between the Indianapolis Colts and San Francisco 49ers at Lucas Oil Stadium early after around 12 49ers players kneeled for the anthem. Trump said in a tweet later on Sunday evening that he had asked Pence to walk out if more protests occurred.
Trump’s latest angle of attack represents a fresh direction for the president; before Tuesday, he had never criticized the league for its tax affairs. And perhaps that should have remained the case. While the league has attracted criticism for using public money for new stadiums—a March 2017 ESPN article said new stadiums and renovations to old ones since 1997 cost the taxpayers $6.7 billion, including the Oakland Raiders’ upcoming transition to Las Vegas, which will come in at almost $1 billion—it has moved in recent years to close up one tax loophole. As fact-checking website  Snopes.com explained, the NFL’s tax-exempt status prior to 2015 applied only to the league central office, which handles the administrative side of the game. The 32 teams themselves, private organizations, all pay tax as normal. Anyway, in 2015, the league office voluntarily gave up its tax-exempt status.
If Trump was making a point about using taxpayers’ money for shiny new billion-dollar arenas, he might have a point. The NFL may have many questions to answer, but its teams do pay taxes. As The New York Times pointed out, any change to the way the NFL pays tax would be “more about symbolism than impact.” Trump, of course, spent in the region of $250,000 flying Pence to Indianapolis on Sunday, apparently to make a political statement. As  Business Insider noted, he also stands accused of wasteful spending of taxpayer dollars for that incident. The president’s latest attack on the NFL was not an entirely successful one.


In less than two weeks, President Donald Trump has tweeted to criticize the NFL on 27 separate occasions.
His issue with the organization began when players started kneeling during the national anthem, a form of protest started by former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in 2016.
In preseason this year, more players began to take a knee during the anthem, prior to kick-off, which Trump attacked on September 23. At a rally for Republican senator Luther Strange, Trump urged NFL players be sacked for protesting.
“Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out! He’s fired. He’s fired!’” the president said. But this only led to more players protesting and Trump has taken to attacking the NFL from his Twitter account.
Related:   Trump’s bashing worked, NFL quietly changes rule on protesting national anthem
Below,  Newsweek  recaps all of the posts Trump has made in reference to the NFL and its national anthem debate:
Why is the NFL getting massive tax breaks while at the same time disrespecting our Anthem, Flag and Country? Change tax law!
 

 
A big salute to Jerry Jones, owner of the Dallas Cowboys, who will BENCH players who disrespect our Flag.&quot;Stand for Anthem or sit for game!&quot;
 

Referring to the game between the Indianapolis Colts and San Francisco 49ers that Vice President Mike Pence walked out of when players began protesting the national anthem:
 
The trip by @VP Pence was long planned. He is receiving great praise for leaving game after the players showed such disrespect for country!
 

 
I asked @VP Pence to leave stadium if any players kneeled, disrespecting our country. I am proud of him and @SecondLady Karen.
 

 
19,000 RESPECTING our National Anthem! #StandForOurAnthem__ pic.twitter.com/czutyGaMQV
 

 
Very important that NFL players STAND tomorrow, and always, for the playing of our National Anthem. Respect our Flag and our Country!
 

 
Spoke to Jerry Jones of the Dallas Cowboys yesterday. Jerry is a winner who knows how to get things done. Players will stand for Country!
 

 
Ratings for NFL football are way down except before game starts, when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!
 

 
The booing at the NFL football game last night, when the entire Dallas team dropped to its knees, was loudest I have ever heard. Great anger
 

 
But while Dallas dropped to its knees as a team, they all stood up for our National Anthem. Big progress being made-we all love our country!
 

 
The NFL has all sorts of rules and regulations. The only way out for them is to set a rule that you can&#39;t kneel during our National Anthem!
 

 
Even Usain Bolt from Jamaica, one of the greatest runners and athletes of all time, showed RESPECT for our National Anthem! ____ pic.twitter.com/zkenuAP9RS
 

 
So proud of NASCAR and its supporters and fans. They won&#39;t put up with disrespecting our Country or our Flag - they said it loud and clear!
 

 
Many people booed the players who kneeled yesterday (which was a small percentage of total). These are fans who demand respect for our Flag!
 

 
The issue of kneeling has nothing to do with race. It is about respect for our Country, Flag and National Anthem. NFL must respect this!
 

 
#StandForOurAnthem
 

 
NFLplayer PatTillman joined U.S. Army in 2002. He was killed in action 2004. He fought 4our country/freedom. #StandForOurAnthem #BoycottNFL pic.twitter.com/k1FXHRoozY
 

 
Tremendous backlash against the NFL and its players for disrespect of our Country.#StandForOurAnthem__
 

 
If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag &amp; Country, you will see change take place fast. Fire or suspend!
 

 
...NFL attendance and ratings are WAY DOWN. Boring games yes, but many stay away because they love our country. League should back U.S.
 

 
Great solidarity for our National Anthem and for our Country. Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable. Bad ratings!
 

 
You can boycott our anthemWE CAN BOYCOTT YOU! #NFL #MAGA pic.twitter.com/ryYzZnXjXE
 

 
Courageous Patriots have fought and died for our great American Flag --- we MUST honor and respect it!  MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
 

 
Sports fans should never condone players that do not stand proud for their National Anthem or their Country. NFL should change policy!
 

 
If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL,or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect....
 

 
...our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem. If not, YOU&#39;RE FIRED. Find something else to do!
 

 
Roger Goodell of NFL just put out a statement trying to justify the total disrespect certain players show to our country.Tell them to stand!
 



As if anyone needed another strand to the storyline of LeBron James and Kyrie Irving staring each other down across a court for the first time in Cleveland on October 17, Tyronn Lue may just have provided it.
Lue, the Cavaliers head coach, said Monday he would play free-agent acquisition Dwyane Wade at shooting guard, alongside Derrick Rose, Jae Crowder, Kevin Love and James, in his starting five. Barring injury, that lineup will be expected to take to the court against the Celtics in a week.
Lue’s decision is something of a surprise.  NBA.com noted that Wade, who arrived from the Chicago Bulls at the end of September, had been expected to play point guard for the Cavaliers’ second unit. He filled that role for Lue during the Cavaliers’ preseason training camp. That means J.R. Smith, a regular starter over the past two seasons, is relegated to a bench role.
Wade wasn’t terrible for the Bulls in 2016-17, the first season of his professional career outside of Miami. He averaged 18.3 points per game on a team that shuffled into the playoffs, exactly five ppg lower than his career average, according to  Basketballreference.com. Wade’s statistics have been declining since his career year of 2008-09, in line with what you would expect from an aging star. He’s 35, so it seems unlikely those numbers are going to go up again significantly.
Maybe that doesn’t matter, though—or at least that is what Lue must be hoping. In the Heat’s back-to-back championship years, Wade could rely on James and Chris Bosh to share the scoring burden. Four years on from the “Big Three” winning their last title together, and with James seemingly as good as ever, Lue is attempting to recapture that lightning in a bottle, or at least two-thirds of it. If James and Wade can re-create something approaching their original connection, maybe it won’t mean so much that the Cavaliers are starting a 35-year-old on the downslope of his career in the backcourt.
But then, there are other points of conjecture for the Cavaliers, not least the Derrick Rose question. If and when Isaiah Thomas is ready to play, he will presumably replace Rose at the point in the starting five. But as  The Ringer points out, while Rose starts and Wade plays next to him, the Cavaliers are stuck with two players who would prefer to be creators than scorers, in a league where the three-pointer is increasingly important. It’s a staggering statistic, pointed out by that website, that Rose tried less than one three-point attempt per game last season. The 2017 Cavaliers are basically going to defy everything the Warriors have taught everyone about basketball over the past few seasons. It’s going to be interesting, to say the least.
And even if Rose can stay healthy, James’s desire to be the primary ball-handler looks as if it could create problems. And as  The Ringer notes, perceptively, again—what happens to the Cavaliers defense without Smith, and with one player entering his late 30s and one whose career has been stalled, repeatedly, by injuries? In a week’s time, James will face down his old teammate Irving, leading a team that looks to have more questions about it than answers.


The NFL quietly changed its rules on players protesting the national anthem following a torrent of criticism from President Donald Trump, according to reports.
Trump slammed the organization last month as more and more players took a knee during the anthem prior to games. “NFL must respect this!” he tweeted on September 25, followed the next day by: “The NFL has all sorts of rules and regulations. The only way out for them is to set a rule that you can’t kneel during our National Anthem!”
On Sunday, as Cowboys GM  Jerry Jones spoke to reporters, it emerged that he had spoken to Trump “about an NFL policy in game operations manual that dictates players stand for the national anthem.”
The rule that Jones was referencing was published on Twitter by ESPN’s Chris Mortensen:
.@mortreport referencing @NFL game operations manual policy for national anthem on Monday Countdown. Here it is in full: pic.twitter.com/ifSMYuvOV9

Related: Trump searched the NFL rule book to stop players taking a knee, and it worked
Crucially, it warns that failure to follow these rules “may result in discipline, such as fines, suspensions, and/or the forfeiture of draft choice(s) for violations.” This rule, however, seems to have been altered.
Donald Trump has suggested the network should lose its license. The president accused the network of making up a story about his alleged request for more nuclear weapons.   Chip Somodevilla/Getty
According to  Deadspin, the 2014 edition of the game operations manual—officially named the Policy Manual for Member Clubs—is significantly different when it addresses punishment. It says: “Failure to be on the field by the start of the National anthem may result in disciplinary action from the League Office.”
The version currently being pushed out by the NFL differs in two ways: Firstly, there are increased penalties for not standing for the national anthem, but also the punishment does not have to come from the league office now.
Following the Cowboys’ 35-31 defeat to the Green Bay Packers on Monday, Jones said that “if there’s anything that is disrespectful to the flag, then we will not play,” a move Trump was quick to praise.
A big salute to Jerry Jones, owner of the Dallas Cowboys, who will BENCH players who disrespect our Flag.&quot;Stand for Anthem or sit for game!&quot;

“A big salute to Jerry Jones, owner of the Dallas Cowboys, who will BENCH players who disrespect our Flag. “Stand for Anthem or sit for game!” Trump tweeted Monday night.
It is unclear when the change was made to the language in the manual, and  Newsweek  is yet to hear back from the NFL for comment.


In his seemingly neverending series of skirmishes with the National Football League, Donald Trump at last found support from an old friend.
Jerry Jones, the charismatic oil billionaire and owner of the Dallas Cowboys, performed something of a  volte-face on Monday night, telling  ESPN that his players “need consequences” should they feel the desire to kneel during the national anthem.
Jones outlined those consequences on Sunday night after the Green Bay Packers beat his Cowboys at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas. "If there's anything that is disrespectful to the flag, then we will not play," Jones told assembled reporters. "Understand? We will not... if we are disrespecting the flag, then we will not play. Period."
Jones told  ESPN that the policy of suspending Cowboys players from games if they fail to stand during the anthem is not a new one, and has been in place since last season when Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback, first began to kneel in protest at perceived police brutality toward minority groups in the United States.
But it still appeared a departure from Jones’s previous stance displayed earlier this season, when he knelt along with the Cowboys players prior to the anthem, before a game against the Arizona Cardinals in Glendale on September 26 on Monday Night Football. Jones and the Cowboys then stood and linked arms for the anthem.
Jones, who donated $1 million to Trump’s inauguration fund, drew praise from the embattled president late on Monday. “A big salute to Jerry Jones, owner of the Dallas Cowboys, who will BENCH players who disrespect our Flag."Stand for Anthem or sit for game!" Trump tweeted. Trump has faced strident criticism since he told a rally in Alabama on September 22 that any NFL player who knelt for the anthem should be “fired.” On Sunday, Vice-President Mike Pence left Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis early after around half a dozen 49ers players knelt during the anthem. Trump explained later that evening in a tweet that he had instructed Pence to leave the game between the Indianapolis Colts and 49ers if “any players kneeled, disrespecting our country.”


Barcelona will consider entering the race to sign Atletico Madrid’s Antoine Griezmann next summer, potentially scuppering Jose Mourinho’s transfer plans once again, according to reports.
Griezmann agreed a new deal at Atletico this summer, following intense speculation that he would leave for  Old Trafford. The Frenchman said it would have been a “dirty move” for him to leave given the transfer ban placed on Atletico that would have prevented it signing a replacement.
So Griezmann stayed, but the move just looked to be delayed. That looked especially true when the club bought Diego Costa back from Chelsea (though can't register him until January), and when Griezmann’s new contract still had the same buyout clause. His move to United still seemed likely.
But now, it seems,  Mourinho has a rival, and an old rival at that. The club he worked for as an assistant, and has come up against frequently throughout his managerial career, is looking to swipe their top target next summer.
Related:   Manchester United rocked as Barcelona makes striker its top summer target
Jose Mourinho in Moscow, Russia, September 27.   KIRILL KUDRYAVTSEV/AFP/Getty
According to Spanish newspaper  Mundo Deportivo, Barcelona will meet Atletico’s asking price of £89 million (about $117 million), which United is also reportedly willing to match. So, it may either become a bidding war between the two clubs or Griezmann will have to make a decision between the two.
The 26-year-old Frenchman is believed to be friends with United midfielder Paul Pogba, who reports suggest played a big role in the capture of Romelu Lukaku from Everton in the summer. United, once again, looks an attractive proposition. Although not the three trophies he would have wanted, Mourinho delivered silverware in his first season at the club and took it back to the Champions League. This season, he is already building on that as United sits joint top of the Premier League with  Manchester City.
Barcelona, meanwhile, is top of La Liga with seven wins from seven games in Ernesto Valverde’s first season at the club, but there is uncertainty off the field. Neymar left in the summer for Paris, and it remains unclear whether Lionel Messi’s future lies at the Camp Nou. An opportunity, perhaps, for Griezmann to become one of the leading men at Barcelona. Griezmann will likely have a decision to make.


President Donald Trump told Dallas Cowboys general manager Jerry Jones he’d found a policy from the NFL that dictates players must stand for the national anthem, according to reports.
Last month,  Trump urged owners of  NFL teams to fire any player that  protested during the national anthem, a message which backfired when the numbers of players kneeling and linking arms increased.
But on Sunday, Jones emphatically announced that any players from his team who “disrespected” the national anthem by not standing would not play. “If there's anything that is disrespectful to the flag, then we will not play,” Jones said after the Cowboys' 35-31 defeat to the Green Bay Packers.
Following other teams protesting the national anthem,  Trump reportedly called Jones and repeatedly implored him to prevent the Cowboys from kneeling. On Sunday, Jones spoke about his conversation with the president and revealed how he had advised him on the NFL rules.
Related:   Was Mike Pence’s NFL Walkout Just a PR Stunt?
Baltimore Ravens players kneel for the national anthem at Wembley Stadium at the start of Week 3 protests in the NFL.   Alex Pantling/Getty Images)
According to Brandon George of  The Dallas Morning News, Jones said part of their conversation was “about an NFL policy in game operations manual that dictates players stand for the national anthem.”
Trump said to Jones: “This could have all been resolved.” The NFL rule book may not mention the national anthem, but the game operations manual certainly does.
Speaking to  Sports Illustrated, an NFL spokesperson said: “The national anthem must be played prior to every NFL game, and all players must be on the sideline for the national anthem. During the national anthem, players on the field and bench area should stand at attention, face the flag, hold helmets in their left hand and refrain from talking. The home team should ensure that the American flag is in good condition. It should be pointed out to players and coaches that we continue to be judged by the public in this area of respect for the flag and our country. Failure to be on the field by the start of the national anthem may result in discipline, such as fines, suspensions and/or the forfeiture of draft choice(s) for violations of the above, including first offenses.”
The NFL is not considering fining players or teams who choose to kneel, link arms or remain in the locker room during the national anthem, the spokesman added.
Despite Jones claiming Trump had informed him of this rule, the president didn’t seem to have this view when tweeting, for he said on September 24 that the “NFL should change policy” to force players to stand.


Manchester City is seriously considering making a bid that would almost double the current transfer world record if Lionel Messi doesn’t sign a new contract at Barcelona, according to reports.
Barcelona announced in June that Messi was signing a contract extension that would keep him at the club until 2021. But that is yet to materialize, and the 30-year-old's current deal expires on June 30, meaning Messi could leave the club for free next summer. 
Manchester City isn't willing to take the risk of waiting that long, though, according to Spanish newspaper  AS, which says Pep Guardiola's team is monitoring the situation and could be ready to make a serious bid. So serious, in fact, that the fee being mentioned would shatter a transfer record that was already devastated this summer.
According to the report, City is preparing an offer of €400 million (about £358m/$470m) for Messi in January if he hasn’t agreed to stay with Barcelona by then. That would see the world transfer record almost quadruple in just six months.
Related:   Manchester United Rocked as Barcelona Makes Old Trafford Forward Its Top Transfer Target
Lionel Messi, left, and Pep Guardiola in Munich on May 12, 2015.   ODD ANDERSEN/AFP/Getty
In August,  Paris Saint-Germain activated the release clause in Neymar’s contract, paying Barcelona £199 million for the Brazilian forward. The transaction saw the world record more than double following Paul Pogba’s £90 million move from Juventus to Manchester United in summer 2016.
But Manchester City has always had its sights set on Messi. In addition to making the Etihad Stadium look appealing to Pep Guardiola, employing Ferran Soriano and Txiki Begiristain, two former Barcelona executives, was also intended to attract Messi.
The question, however, was whether the Argentinian would ever leave Catalonia, and it remains that way. Since joining the famous La Masia academy as a 14-year-old boy in 2001, Messi has won eight La Liga titles, the Champions League four times, and the Ballon d’Or five times.
It seemed increasingly unlikely that he would ever leave. But with Neymar’s departure and Barcelona entering a new era under Ernesto Valverde, the team’s new manager, the prospect of reuniting with Guardiola in Manchester may appeal to Messi.


The New York Yankees kept alive their season—barely and thrillingly—Sunday night with a 1-0 win over the Cleveland Indians in the Bronx in Game 3 of the American League Division Series.
The victory, secured at Yankee Stadium thanks to a solo home run from Greg Bird, may have kept Joe Girardi in a job, too, for one more night at least.
"I've never worried about my future," Girardi said before the game, quoted by Sports Illustrated. "I worry about other people’s future, but not my own. Whatever happens, happens."
The 52-year-old Girardi, who is out of contract at the end of the season, is under pressure for a variety of reasons and was booed by sections of the crowd during the introductions prior to Game 3.
The crowd’s anger stemmed principally from a decision Girardi made on Friday, which may have cost the Yankees victory in Game 2. 
With the Yankees leading 8-3 in the sixth inning at Progressive Field, the Indians’ Lonnie Chisenhall walked after he was hit by a pitch from Chad Green. Catcher Gary Sanchez pointed out that the ball had hit the end of Chisenhall’s bat, but Girardi opted not to review and then watched as Francisco Lindor hit a grand slam. Yan Gomes walked the game off in the 13th inning.
Giradi had two challenges remaining at the time, but explained his decision after the game in quotes reported by ESPN. He said: "I think about the rhythm and never want to take a pitcher out of rhythm and have them stand over there to tell me he wasn't hit."
Girardi's decision continues to influence the series. The Yankees could, and probably should, be 2-1 up going into Game 4 on Monday night rather than facing elimination at the hands of the powerful Indians.
“There’s a lot of people that are upset with me, and that’s all part of it," Giradi told  Boston.com. "And that’s something that I have to deal with. The only thing I can do is give my best to this team moving forward, and that’s what I’ll do.”
He said he had cleared up any lingering drama with Aroldis Chapman after the closer “liked” an Instagram post calling Girardi an imbecile after Friday’s game. Chapman apologized to Girardi, according to the manager, and said liking the post had been an accident.
It seems strange that Girardi could leave after this of all his 10 seasons, when the Yankees have surprised everyone in baseball, and maybe even themselves, by contending a year ahead of schedule with a young core led by Sanchez, Aaron Judge and Luis Severino, and bolstered by Bird’s comeback from injury.
But  NJ.com did report in the spring that there was a possibility Girardi could leave after this year, to return to the broadcast booth.
In Monday's Game 4, the Yankees will look to prolong his career in the Bronx by one more game again.


Vice President Mike Pence left the NFL game between the Indianapolis Colts and San Francisco 49ers early on Sunday night—apparently at President Donald Trump’s bidding—after around a dozen 49ers kneeled during the anthem.
Pence was ostensibly visiting Indianapolis to honor Peyton Manning, the Colts’ Super Bowl-winning quarterback who had a statue of himself unveiled before the Colts’ overtime victory. The vice-president was Governor of Indiana from 2013 to 2017.
Pence didn’t get to see any of the game, though. "I left today's Colts game because @POTUS and I will not dignify any event that disrespects our soldiers, our Flag, or our National Anthem," Pence  wrote in a series of explanatory tweets on Sunday evening.
“I stand with @POTUS Trump, I stand with our soldiers, and I will always stand for our Flag and our National Anthem.” Trump tweeted about an hour later on Sunday evening that he had orchestrated Pence’s walkout. “I asked @VP Pence to leave stadium if any players kneeled, disrespecting our country,” Trump wrote. “I am proud of him and @SecondLady Karen.” Eric Reid, the 49ers safety, called Pence’s walkout a “stunt” after the game, as reported by Jennifer Lee Chan of  NinersNation.com.
Trump has been engaged in a battle with the NFL and its players since he told a rally in Alabama on September 22 that any player protesting the perceived treatment of black people in the United States by kneeling during the anthem should be “fired.” The practise has caught hold in the NFL since former 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick began to kneel at the start of the 2016-17 season.
Curiously, Pence was never meant to take in the whole of the game.  The Guardian reports that Air Force Two was scheduled to take off from Indianapolis International Airport at 4 p.m. E.T. to get the Vice-President to a political fundraiser in Los Angeles. The Colts and 49ers finished their game, after overtime, after 4.30 p.m. ET.
That, as well as a report from  NBC that the Vice-Presidential pool never got to enter the stadium and was told that Pence could leave the game early, seemed to have angered Democrats who pointed out the potential cost of Pence’s trip. Brian Schatz, the Senior United States Senator from Hawaii,  tweeted, “Wait. This was orchestrated to make a point? That's not an inexpensive thing to do,” in response to Trump’s explanation.
Schatz was probably about right. Totalling up the money spent flying Pence from Las Vegas to Indianapolis and then on to Los Angeles,  CNN calculated the entire trip would have cost around $242,500. Flying from Las Vegas to L.A. would have cost around $45,000. A Pence aide told  CNN on Sunday that the game had been on the Vice-President’s schedule “for several weeks.


Updated | Miami Dolphins offensive line coach Chris Foerster resigned his position after a video appeared on social media showing him snorting white powder. 
The  Miami Herald reported late on Sunday evening that the Dolphins are “aware” of the video. The newspaper cites an unidentified club source as confirming that the man in the video is Foerster, though it is unclear when the footage was taken. But another  Herald source told the publication that the video looked like it had been filmed inside the Dolphins facility.
“I want to apologize to the organization and my sole focus is on getting the help that I need with the support of family and medical professionals,” Foerster said in a statement released by the Dolphins and reported in the Sun Sentinel. 
The video was posted to Facebook late on Sunday by a user named Kijuana Nige, who describes herself as a model from Nevada. “ I really don't do this often but... since it's NFL Sunday let's talk about these coaches folks” Nige posted on her account on Sunday. Introducing Christopher Foerster Miami Dolphin [sic] offensive line coach. Hey honey are you still high.”
In the video Foerster begins by talking to someone off camera. “Hey babe, miss you. Thinking about you. How about me going to a meeting and doing this before I go?” He says. He then snorts one of three lines of the white substance on the table, referencing “those big grains falling” before taking the second line. After snorting the third and final line, the subject of the video raises a finger to his lips with a remnant of the drugs on it and says, “I wish I was licking this off your p****.”

It is unclear whether the video was intended for Nige, although she appeared to claim it was in another Facebook post published in the early hours of Monday morning. “The white people mad at me like I forced blow down this mans nose and like I recorded it on tha low,” she wrote. “No those are his habits and he recorded himself and sent it to me professing his love.” She goes on to draw a parallel between perceived sympathy for Foerster and attitudes towards black players in the NFL.
“We were made aware of the video late last night and have no tolerance for this behavior. After speaking with Chris this morning, he accepted full responsibility and we accepted his resignation effective immediately. Although Chris is no longer with the organization, we will work with him to get the help he needs during this time," the team said in a statement. 
This story was updated on 9 October to include details of Chris Foerster​'s resignation. 


San Francisco 49ers safety Eric Reid has accused Vice President Mike Pence of "a PR stunt" after walking out an NFL game when players kneeled during the national anthem.
Reid, one of the NFL players who began protesting a year ago alongside Colin Kaepernick, was in Indianapolis for Sunday’s game against the Colts, which ended 26-23 to Indianapolis.
Pence made a special appearance at the game but didn’t get to see a minute of play. The vice president rose to his feet for the national anthem, but after seeing members of the 49ers team take a knee he walked out of the stadium.
“I left today's Colts game because @POTUS and I will not dignify any event that disrespects our soldiers, our Flag, or our National Anthem,” Pence wrote on Twitter. But Reid, the 25-year-old from Louisiana, thinks it was all part of a set-up.
“My honest reaction … Does anybody know the last time he’s [Pence] been to a football game?” Reid said, as quoted by  Jennifer Lee Chan of Niners Nation.
“With that being said, he tweeted out a three-year old photo of him at a Colts game so with the information I have the last time he was at a Colts game was three years ago. So this looks like a PR stunt to me.”
 
Statement by @E_Reid35 regarding the Vice President&#39;s brief appearance at the game. &quot;This is what systemic oppression looks like.&quot; pic.twitter.com/Aoy2GWons2
 
Reid continued: “He knew our team has had the most players protest. He knew that we were probably going to do it again. This is what systemic oppression looks like. A man with power comes to the game, tweets a couple of things out and leaves the game with an attempt to thwart our efforts. Based on the information I have, that’s the assumption I’ve made.”
Later, on Twitter, President Trump explained how he had been behind Pence’s departure from the Lucas Oil Stadium. “I asked @VP Pence to leave stadium if any players kneeled, disrespecting our country. I am proud of him and @SecondLady Karen,” he wrote on Twitter.
 
I asked @VP Pence to leave stadium if any players kneeled, disrespecting our country. I am proud of him and @SecondLady Karen.
On Monday morning, he claimed on Twitter that Pence's trip to Indianapolis was "long planned," but the VP was never going to see the whole game, anyway. According to the Guardian, Air Force Two was due to take off from Indianapolis international airport at 4 p.m. on Sunday, while the game finished at 4.30 p.m. after overtime.
Trump has been in an on-going feud with the NFL ever since he suggested players who protested the national anthem should be “fired.” At a rally last month he said: “Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out! He’s fired. He’s fired!’
“You know, some owner is going to do that. He’s going to say, ‘That guy that disrespects our flag, he’s fired.’ And that owner, they don’t know it [but] they’ll be the most popular person in this country.”
His comments led to mass protests across the sport the following weekend, which looks set to continue through the season.


Barcelona is considering making a move for Manchester United forward Anthony Martial as he struggles to get a start at Old Trafford, according to reports.
Martial has made significant progress under  Jose Mourinho since last season, scoring five goals in nine appearances already this campaign. The statistics are even more impressive given that the 21-year-old has only started four games—and there lies what Barcelona sees as an opportunity.
But despite his quality, Martial has struggled to get into  Mourinho’s starting line-up. Barcelona,  Mundo Deportivo says, believes he is capable of playing at the Camp Nou and will look to take advantage of Mourinho’s reluctance to start him.
The French forward moved to United in the summer of 2015, then under Louis van Gaal, and he impressed at the age of 18, scoring 17 goals in his first campaign in English football.
Related:   Manchester United forward can be better than me, says Thierry Henry
There was friction between the player and his manager last season as Mourinho spoke publicly about Martial’s need to improve: “Do I think Anthony is player with great potential? Yes. Do I think he can play successfully for me? Yes. But he needs to give me things that I like,”  Mourinho said in April.
“We are together for almost 10 months or something like that. The same way I know the players much better now, the players should also know me much better now.”
Martial, as  Mourinho said, has clear potential to thrive in England and Europe’s top leagues, which is a belief shared by his fellow countryman, Thierry Henry.
Henry, the former Arsenal striker who moved to Barcelona, believes Martial could progress to a similar level to him in the Premier League, which saw Henry named PFA Player of the Year on two occasions.
“Anthony Martial is a far better player than I was at that age,” Henry said, as quoted by the  Daily Mail. “He can become a world-class player.”
Henry, now a pundit for Sky Sports, moved from north London to Catalonia in 2007, where he won two La Liga titles and the Champions League in three years at the club.
Barcelona’s blockbuster summer-signing Ousmane Dembele from Borussia Dortmund for £135 million (about $177 million)—after selling Neymar to PSG for £199 million—is injured and expected to be out until the new year.
Jose Mourinho at Old Trafford, Manchester, England, September 20.   Richard Heathcote/Getty


For the first and only time this postseason, Major League Baseball presents four playoff games in one day on Friday. A double doubleheader of sorts. To help you prepare for the four divisional series (Boston Red Sox–Houston Astros and New York Yankees–Cleveland Indians in the American League, and Chicago Cubs-Washington Nationals and Arizona Diamondbacks-Los Angeles Dodgers in the National League), we present a diamond dozen: 12 players who will most impact the outcomes of these four matchups.
Predictions? We like the Astros and Indians to advance in the AL and the Nationals and Diamondbacks to move forward in the senior circuit.
The 5-foot-6 inch Altuve smote three home runs in Thursday’s Game 1 victory against the Boston Red Sox. He will likely be the shortest Most Valuable Player in baseball since 1952, when Bobby Shantz, also 5 feet, 6 inches, of the Philadelphia Athletics, won the award.
How does the 2011 Cy Young winner, who arrived in Houston in August via trade from the Detroit Tigers, like his new clubhouse? Verlander is 6-0, including Thursday’s Game 1 win, with a 1.35 ERA.
The team leader in home runs (24), RBI (102) and stolen bases (26) would love to celebrate his 25th birthday (a day early) on Friday by evening up the series before it returns to Fenway Park.
New York Yankee Aaron Judge hits a two-run home run against the Minnesota Twins during the fourth inning of the 2017 American League wild card playoff game at Yankee Stadium.   Brad Penner/USA Today Sports/Reuters
Baseball’s most celebrated rookie led the American League in home runs (52) and strikeouts (208) this season. In Thursday’s Game 1 in Cleveland, the 6-foot-7-inch slugger only increased the latter stat, whiffing four times.
The Tribe’s ace is the American League’s presumptive Cy Young winner (it would be his second), as he led the AL in wins (18), ERA (2.25) and WHIP (.869).
In 21 career postseason innings (excluding last year’s World Series), the 6-foot-7-inch southpaw reliever has yet to allow a run. As fans of both the Indians and  Major League know, Miller is about as far from Ricky “Wild Thing” Vaughn as you get.
Washington Nationals right fielder Bryce Harper rounds third base en route to scoring a run against the Pittsburgh Pirates in the seventh inning at Nationals Park.   Geoff Burke/USA Today Sports/Reuters
The Nationals have yet to win a postseason series in three tries since the wild-maned slugger became the bedrock of their lineup. Harper missed most of August and September with a knee injury after slipping on a wet first base while legging out a hit.
The two-time Cy Young winner tweaked his hamstring in his last start, but he should be on the mound for either Game 2 or 3. Another former Tiger, Scherzer has led the National League in strikeouts and WHIP each of the last two seasons.
Overshadowed by his former Rookie of the Year and MVP teammate Kris Bryant, Rizzo led the reigning world champions in home runs (32) and RBI (109).
Los Angeles Dodger Clayton Kershaw pitches at Dodger Stadium.   Jayne Kamin-Oncea/USA Today Sports/Reuters
The most dominant hurler since Sandy Koufax, if not World War II, in the regular season, Kershaw has been abysmal in October. How does a three-time (and possibly soon four-time) Cy Young winner with a career 2.36 ERA have a 4-7 record in the playoffs with a 4.55 ERA?
The Dodgers embarked on a 56-11 tear in June, July and August, and the precocious slugger was the fulcrum behind that machine. Just 22 years old, Bellinger set an NL rookie record with 39 home runs.
Since being traded from Detroit at the advent of August, Martinez has crushed 29 home runs in only 65 games. The Dodgers remember well the four home-run game he had against them on Labor Day in a 13-0 rout.


England officially qualified for the FIFA World Cup 2018 in Russia last night, beating Slovenia 1-0 to top the group with a game still left to play.
Current world champions Germany has also already qualified, along with seven other sides including Brazil, Iran, Japan, Mexico, Belgium, Saudi Arabia, and South Korea.
But other nations are yet to secure a spot and there are upsets on the cards if they do not perform.
The three-time World Cup runner-up is balancing on the edge of qualification for the finals and will need to win all its remaining games to have any chance of making it to Russia next year.
Having won only half of its games so far—having suffered a heavy defeat by France in August—the Dutch team face bottom of the table Belarus tomorrow in Borisov. It should be a comfortable win but Sweden on Tuesday will be a challenging clash that will decide which team secures a play-off position.
The hosts of Euro 2016 lead Group A by only a single point, France will need to secure at least a win on Saturday away to Bulgaria in order to settle manager Didier Deschamps' nerves.
He will be confident in his team, though, with star players such as Kylian Mbappe and Thomas Lemar shining in the Champions League recently.
But the French will have to shake off the last result, a 0-0 draw with Luxembourg, and be clinical on Saturday to increase the pressure on the rest of those in Group A hoping to secure a play-off spot.
If France fails to win the last two games in their group, Sweden and Holland could both pounce and beat the French to Russia.
In a two-horse race with the Spaniards for qualification in Group G, Italy will be desperate for a win against Macedonia.
Gian Piero Ventura can only hope Spain drops points in its last two matches for any chance at winning the group—if the Italians cannot manage a draw at the Stadio Olimpico tonight, the team will not even guarantee second place in the group.
The Euro 2016 champions face Andorra away on Saturday, with three points to make up on Switzerland who lead Group B.
Portugal must at least match Switzerland's result to keep hopes alive of top spot, otherwise they will be staring down the prospect of missing out on the chance to become simultaneous European and World champions.
In what is turning out to be the toughest-fought of all the battles for top spot, the Croatian team is far from securing a place at the finals next year.
Croatia only leads the group with a superior goal difference to Iceland, with Ukraine and Turkey both only two points behind.
The team faces Finland at home tonight followed by a vital encounter in Ukraine on Monday. Iceland plays Turkey tonight but end with an easier fixture against bottom team Kosovo on Monday.
Spain has progressed through the World Cup qualifiers with a point to prove after going out of Euro 2016 at the quarterfinal stage.
They are yet to lose a match going into the weekend and the clash against Albania tonight would provide a comfortable points cushion with only one game remaining.
On the other hand, if Italy win tonight and Spain fail to do so, both nations would be on equal points going into the last qualifier on Monday.
This means that the top spot in Group G is still all to play for and could see one of the European footballing giants face strong opposition in a play-off scenario to secure their path to Russia.
The Swedes are currently second in Group A, a point behind leaders France, and host Luxembourg on Saturday.
If Sweden wins, a top two finish will be confirmed; should they lose and the Netherlands beat Belarus, the Swedes will be on equal points to the Dutch and risk losing out on the chance for a play-off spot and consequently a place in the finals.


The United States Men's National Soccer Team (USMNT) may be 32 places higher than Panama in the FIFA world rankings, but that will count for nothing on Friday night. If Bruce Arena’s team loses, the U.S. will not qualify for next year’s World Cup in Russia.
Panama sits third in the qualifying group, one point and one place above USMNT, and in the final qualifying position, along with Costa Rica and first-place Mexico. The U.S. must beat Panama and then get either a draw or a win from their match against Trinidad and Tobago on Tuesday.
Lose, and it will be the first time the U.S. has not been at the World Cup finals since 1986 in Mexico. Since then, the USMNT has been ever present, reaching the quarterfinal stage in 2002 and the last 16 at the previous two tournaments. 
So the pressure is high on Arena and his team, especially as Panama has no World Cup experience; victory would see Hernán Darío Gómez become the first man to take the country to the finals. 
The game kicks off Friday night at 7:35 Eastern time and is being televised on ESPN2 and Univision Deportes. You can also live-stream the game through fuboTV.
Related: U.S. Men’s Soccer Doesn't Need a Pep Talk Before Panama Game. Just Hit Play, Bruce
Bruce Arena in San Pedro Sula, Honduras, on September 5.   JOHAN ORDONEZ/AFP/Getty
Arena, meanwhile, needs look no further than former U.S. player and current Fox Sports analyst Alexi Lalas for his team talk. Last month Lalas tore into individual members of the team after losing to Costa Rica and drawing with Honduras.

Former Premier League goalkeeper Tim Howard was the first to be criticized by Lalas, who said, “The Belgium game ended three years ago; we need you to save the ball now.” Lalas was referring to the World Cup 2014 quarterfinal, eventually won 2-1 by Belgium, but only after Howard had made the most saves in a single match in World Cup history.
Speaking to Sports Illustrated this week, Howard hit back at Lalas. “He’s been blowing hot air for a long time,” Howard said. “He was an average player. He was a failed GM. And I think he gets the great thing about sports: Now you have an opportunity to get paid for your opinion when you’re finished playing, and it’s a good thing.”
Howard added: “Everyone has an opinion. And I think you have to deal with praise and criticism the same way. If you deal with praise the wrong way, it can be detrimental. This is my 20th year playing as a professional. I’ve gotten criticized a lot. But I’m still doing something right. If Alexi wants to speak to me personally, he’s always around. He can find me. The likelihood is he won’t speak to me personally. But that’s just who he is. He’s a character.”


The New York Yankees can overcome a 1-0 deficit and beat a mighty Cleveland Indians team to make it to the American League Championship Series if Aaron Judge’s bat stays silent.
Some offense from Judge wouldn’t go amiss, though—especially if the Yankees starting pitching continues to be as bad as it has been through the wild-card game and Game 1 against the Indians.
The Yankees got terrible pitching from Luis Severino in the wild-card win over the Minnesota Twins Wednesday; the 23-year-old ace was pulled after one out of the first inning. But the bullpen did a cleanup job, and the offense, led by Didi Gregorius and backed up by Judge, hammered and clawed them out of a hole.
On Thursday the Yankees got bad pitching from Sonny Gray, acquired in July from the Oakland A’s before the trade deadline. In three-and-one-third innings, Gray gave up three runs. “Jay Bruce is the guy that really hurt him,” Yankees manager Joe Girardi told the  New York Post. “Besides that, he pitched pretty well.” Bruce, the former New York Met, struck a two-run home run and drove in three of the Indians’ four runs on the night.
Girardi got a bad Judge, too—not the one who lit up the early season and September, but the guy who struck out so many times in the lean summer months. Against the Twins, Judge struck a memorable line-drive home run, on a good night all around for the Yankees in the Bronx. Against the Indians, he struck out four times in four at-bats—three to the starting pitcher Trevor Bauer, and once to closer Cody Allen.
"That's the beauty of baseball,” Judge told  NJ.com after the game when asked if he could forget his bad night. “You get to go out there again and do it tomorrow. So if we go out there and win, we can forget about today. It's just about learning from today, regroup and get them tomorrow."
The same website also reported Judge had an ice pack on his knee during the interview.
"I thought he had some good swings tonight and he'll be back tomorrow," Girardi said, echoing his star rookie. The difference is Judge and the Yankees have to face the Indians’ ace, Corey Kluber, on Friday. Hitting won’t get easier, at least until Game 3.
They can get offense from elsewhere, of course. Maybe Gary Sanchez can fill the hole if Judge keeps striking out, or Todd Frazier, or Greg Bird, or the phenomenally consistent Gregorius. It’s difficult to shake the feeling, though, that when Judge goes cold, so do the Yankees.
Girardi could do with some fire from his baby behemoth in Ohio on Friday night.


The New England Patriots just about squeezed past the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Thursday night on the strength of a previously pilloried defense.
That doesn’t mean their worries are over.
The Buccaneers got to Tom Brady repeatedly at Raymond James Stadium, sacking him twice and forcing one fumble. That’s the same defense that came into the game with one sack in three games on the season so far, as reported by WEEI Radio,  which covers Bill Belichick’s team.
“Just football,” the quarterback said when asked about the hits, quoted by  Yahoo Sports. “Just football. I’ll be there next Sunday.”
Quarterback Tom Brady of the New England Patriots at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida, on October 5.   Brian Blanco/Getty
The phlegmatism is very Brady, very Patriots, very NFL. You take the licks, you struggle back up, you go again next Sunday.
Or do you, if you’re past the age of 40? We’re still less than a year removed from that strange controversy in the spring, when Gisele Bundchen let slip that her husband is not as immune to the stresses and strains and brutality of football as he might appear. “He had a concussion last year. He has concussions pretty much every... I mean, we don’t talk about it. He does have concussions,” Bundchen told  CBS in May.
The NFL could find no record of a Brady concussion in the 2016 season. But the cloak of immunity was lifted, partially, at that point. It was easy, before that, to imagine Brady as he appears on the field, a kind of constantly exhorting cyborg fashioned to play the quarterback position as well as it has ever been played. Now? There’s a vulnerability creeping in. Brady has been sacked 15 times in five games of the 2017 season, according to  Yahoo Sports. He is well on pace to break his record for sacks taken in a season, set in 2001.
It’s not too difficult to work out why Brady is getting hit so often. A pocket quarterback not known for his mobility, and now on the wrong side of 40, he needs to be releasing the ball quickly. But the Patriots’ chronic injury problems at wide receiver mean New England lacks downfield threats. Brady is having to hang around in the pocket, and he doesn’t even have a dominant run game to fall back on and hand the ball off to. He threw the ball 40 times against the Buccaneers; six times fewer than his counterpart Jameis Winston, sure, but still probably too many. Worst of all, Brady is playing behind a struggling offensive line. “There are always things you can fix,” left guard Joe Thuney told the  Boston Herald after Brady had been harried against the Houston Texans. “It’s all about execution, little details here and there. There’s always room for improvement.” It’s one thing taking sacks from the Texans’ fearsome defense, though, and quite another allowing pressure from the Buccaneers.
The Patriots are struggling to win with Brady; had Buccaneers kicker Nick Folk not missed three field goals on Thursday night, they would have dropped to 2-3. Without Brady—if they keep letting a 40-year-old man get hammered to the turf—a season that promised dominance for Belichick and Co. is going to go south, fast.


Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton has issued an apology for his sexist remarks after being dropped by one of his sponsors.
On Wednesday, during a news conference, Jourdan Rodrigue of  The Charlotte Observer  asked Newton a question regarding the route-running of receiver Devin Funchess. Newton began his answer by saying, “It’s funny to hear a female talk about routes.”
Newton received a backlash for his comment, with the N.F.L., the Pro Football Writers of America and The Observer condemning his remarks as unacceptable. Rodrigue also made clear she didn’t find it funny.
Dannon, the yoghurt manufacturer, ended its advertising agreement with Newton, which was soon followed by him apologizing via a video on his Twitter account. Take a look:
 
pic.twitter.com/Rwxzcu883T
 
“We are shocked and disheartened at the behavior and comments of Cam Newton toward Jourdan Rodrigue, which we perceive as sexist and disparaging to all women,” Dannon's Michael Neuwirth said in a statement, as quoted by  The New York Times. “It is entirely inconsistent with our commitment to fostering equality and inclusion in every workplace. It’s simply not O.K. to belittle anyone based on gender.”
And then came Newton’s apology. “After careful thought, I understand my word choice was extremely degrading and disrespectful to women,” Newton said. “And, to be honest, that was not my intentions, and if you are a person who took offense to what I said I sincerely apologize to you.
He continued: “I’m a man who tries to be a positive role model in my community and tries to use my platform to inspire others, and I take ownership to everything that comes with that. And what I did was extremely unacceptable.”
 
Here&#39;s the video of Cam Newton saying &quot;it&#39;s funny to hear a female talk about routes&quot; pic.twitter.com/hd9Kg4CCeu
 
Newton is also sponsored by Under Armour, Gatorade and Beats headphones, all of which are yet to comment on his actions.
Cam Newton at Gillette Stadium, Foxboro, Massachusetts, October 1.   Maddie Meyer/Getty


In the majority of polls rating the best players the Premier League has ever had, Thierry Henry is the last man standing.
One hundred and seventy four goals in 254 appearances is a pretty impressive return, but it was the grace with which the Frenchman played the game that saw him adored by many, even outside  Arsenal.
He won two Premier League titles and three FA Cups with Arsenal, also being named PFA Player of the Year twice, before lifting the La Liga and and Champions League trophies at Barcelona. 
So it will come as quite an ominous message to the rest of the  Premier League when it hears that Henry believes  Manchester United, one of Arsenal’s biggest rivals, has a player with quality that usurps him.
“Anthony Martial is a far better player than I was at that age,” Henry said, as quoted by the  Daily Mail. “He can become a world-class player.”
Thierry Henry at Stade Louis II, Monaco, Monaco, May 3.   Julian Finney/Getty
Martial, who turns 22 in December, has shown his true potential for United this season, scoring five goals already and starting just four games.
Related:   Mesut Ozil identifies three clubs he’d leave Arsenal for–and it won’t please Arsene Wenger
It seems the French forward has responded to his manager’s words, for Jose Mourinho was critical of him at times during the coach’s first season at Old Trafford.
“Do I think Anthony is player with great potential? Yes. Do I think he can play successfully for me? Yes. But he needs to give me things that I like,”  Mourinho said in April.
“We are together for almost 10 months or something like that. The same way I know the players much better now, the players should also know me much better now.
“The same way I know what the players like, I think the players also know what I like. The same way I have to go with the direction of the players, the players have to come in my direction.”
Martial, like many of United’s players, has given Mourinho reason to be pleased this season, and he was rewarded with the club’s player of the month award.


When Arsene Wenger confirmed that Mesut Ozil would not be leaving the Emirates Stadium this summer but that he also hadn’t signed a contract extension, the Arsenal manager seemed to be hopeful that over the next six months he could persaude the German to stay.
If not, Ozil is able to sign a  pre-contract agreement with another club in January and join for free in the summer.
That plan has not gone too well so far. After seven games of the new  Premier League season, Arsenal is fifth, already six points off the two Manchester clubs at the top of the table. It is early days, but as things stand that leaves them out of the Champions League places where they finished last season.
So Ozil looks to be on his way, but he will only leave north London for three clubs, according to  Goal. The 28-year-old would be keen on rejoining  Real Madrid, the Spanish giant he left for Arsenal in 2013, or, alternatively, the other force in La Liga, Barcelona.
Related:   Meet the team of Premier League stars who could join your club for free next summer
Mesut Ozil at Emirates Stadium, London, September 9.   Clive Rose/Getty
There is also one other destination that appeals to Ozil, and that is heading up the M1 to Manchester and reuniting with  Jose Mourinho, who worked with in Madrid, at Manchester United.
The prospect of Ozil, one of Arsenal’s best players, leaving to join United for nothing would drain the blood from any supporter’s face, partially because they remember what happened last time.
Although Wenger and Arsenal for £24 million for Robin van Persie in 2012, the Dutch striker went on to score 26 league goals that guided United to the title, while Arsenal finished fourth.
There is still time for Wenger to convince Ozil to stay. The German likes his life in London and has just bought a new house which suggests he’s not desperate to flee the club, but Wenger doesn’t have long.
After the international break, Arsenal faces Watford at Vicarage Road on October 14 with a chance to get some more points before traveling to Red Star Belgrade in the Europa League. Midweek Europa trips to Serbia will not appeal to Ozil.


On Friday, the USMNT faces an era-defining match. Bruce Arena’s men are teetering on the brink of missing out on next year’s World Cup in Russia and face Panama in the penultimate game of the group.
Panama sits third in the table, one point and place above USMNT, and in the final qualifying position, along with Costa Rica and first-place Mexico. They have to beat Panama and then get either a draw or win from Trinidad and Tobago on Tuesday.
Despite winning the Gold Cup in July, Arena’s men risk watching the 2018 World Cup from the couch, having failed to win their last three qualifying games. Defeat on Friday night would end all hope.
So Arena needs the pep talk of all pep talks. Though, all he needs to do to get his players fired up is show them the clip below, which sees former U.S. player and current Fox Sports analyst Alexi Lalas rant about certain members of the team.
Related:   Did anti-American prejudice end Bob Bradley Premier League dream?
Just hit play, Bruce:

Former Premier League goalkeeper Tim Howard was the first one picked out by Lalas, who said “the Belgium game ended three years ago, we need you to save the ball now.”
Speaking to Sports Illustrated this week, Howard hit back at Lalas. “He’s been blowing hot air for a long time,”  he said. “He was an average player. He was a failed GM. And I think he gets the great thing about sports: Now you have an opportunity to get paid for your opinion when you’re finished playing, and it’s a good thing.
“Everyone has an opinion. And I think you have to deal with praise and criticism the same way. If you deal with praise the wrong way, it can be detrimental. This is my 20th year playing as a professional. I’ve gotten criticized a lot. But I’m still doing something right. If Alexi wants to speak to me personally, he’s always around. He can find me. The likelihood is he won’t speak to me personally. But that’s just who he is. He’s a character.”
But Howard, and the rest of the team, will still need to prove themselves on Friday night. The game kicks off at Orlando City Stadium at 7 p.m. ET and is on ESPN2.
Tim Howard, center, at Levi's Stadium, Santa Clara, California, July 26.   Ezra Shaw/Getty


The head of Brazil's 2016 Olympics in Rio De Janeiro was arrested Thursday after it was revealed he had 16 bars of gold stashed away in a Swiss bank. It's alleged Carlos Nuzman was involved in a vote-buying scheme. 
The revelations come after prosecutors from across the globe launched the so-called "Unfair Play" investigation last month.
"In the past 10-22 years of his presidency of the Brazilian Olympic Committee, Nuzman increased his wealth by 457 percent, without a clear indication of [where this came from], as well as maintained a part of his wealth hidden in Switzerland," prosecutors said, according to the Financial Times. "For example, he only declared 16 bars of gold, each weighing one kilogramme… on September 20, 2017, after the start of Operation Unfair Play."
Carlos Nuzman at the The Qatar National Convention Centre on November 15, 2016 in Doha, Qatar.   Steve Welsh/Getty Images for ANOC
Brazilian and French authorities have alleged Nuzman played a key role in funneling $2 million to former IOC member Lamine Diack, who helped land Rio the 2016 games, ESPN reported. Rio won the games in 2009 with 66 votes in the third round of voting among the IOC members.
"Nuzman was the agent responsible for uniting the different interests, making contacts, oiling the relations and arranging the mechanism for passing the bribes from [former Rio State Governor Sergio] Cabral directly to African members of the International Olympic Committee," the prosecutors' office said after Nuzman was questioned by authorities, according to the Financial Times. 

Just two weeks after being questioned, Nuzman amended his tax forms to add some $600,000 in income.
It's not particularly shocking that the 2016 Olympics have been tainted by corruption charges. The international sporting event, alongside its soccer counterpart the World Cup, has regularly been the subject of various shady plots involving millions of dollars in alleged bribes as well as vast cheating schemes (remember the 2014 doping scandal in Russia?).
Nuzman, 72, who has headed up Brazil's committee since 1995, has denied any wrongdoing. The International Olympic Committee has offered to work with prosecutors, but defended Nuzman.
"The IOC’s Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer has asked the Brazilian authorities for full information in order to proceed with the IOC’s investigation, and has offered the IOC’s full cooperation," the group said in a statement, but added later, "[The IOC] also reiterates that the presumption of innocence prevails."


President Donald Trump is good at golf—but he may be overstating his talent a bit. 
An article published Wednesday by CNBC looked at Trump's golf game, with quotes from legendary golfers like Gary Player and Tom Watson. But it also featured a throwaway line with a pretty remarkable claim. 
"He even holds the title of 'club champion' at each of the 19 courses around the world with his name on it," the article says. 
"I told him that if anyone beats him, he kicks them out. So he had to win," Player joked to CNBC about the titles. 
Donald Trump hits a tee shot as he opens the Trump International Golf Links in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, on July 10, 2012.   Andy Buchanan/AFP/Getty Images
Again, Trump is good at golf—a fair bit of the CNBC article, titled "Golfers Say Trump Has the Best Game of Any President," featured professionals praising his game. But his game isn't perfect. The president is known to have a lot of power off the tee but struggles around the green, where the game requires a deft touch and attention to detail. And winning a club championship is hard. Trump has said it himself.
“You know, I’ve had great success," Trump told Time magazine in 2015. "Even in golf, I’ve won many golf club championships. I don’t know if you guys play golf. But to win a club championship is hard, literally hard. And you have to beat scratch players. You got a lot of good players."
That's true. Elite, members-only clubs feature men and women who have the means to play very frequently at tough courses with the best equipment. Club tournaments are likely chock-full of scratch golfers, who typically shoot par over 18 holes. The CNBC article seems to suggest Trump currently holds a club champion title—an honor that is typically up for grabs every year—at each of his 19 clubs, which would be quite a feat (and likely one with logistical challenges involving quite a bit of travel). Past articles have said Trump claims to have won 18 or so championships total, which would be more realistic if still difficult. 
The Washington Post this year poked holes in his championship boasts. For instance, the paper found that Trump claims the 1999 club championship at Trump International Golf Club in Palm Beach, Florida. But the club didn't officially open until 2000, and the president apparently won the title during a "soft opening" when only a few select members were allowed to compete in the tournament.
The Post article also found that Trump claimed on Twitter that he won the 2013 championship at Trump International but saw on a plaque at the club that the honor actually belonged to a man named Tom Roush. Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks told the Post he actually won the senior championship, which is certainly an accomplishment but not the outright club title. He has apparently won the senior title a few times at his club in Bedminster, New Jersey, as well.

And that gets to the point of the 19-title claim about Trump. It seems a bit outlandish to believe a man in his 70s is hitting the links and thoroughly crushing his younger competition. It's not quite the same as the late North Korean leader Kim Jong Il famously making anywhere from five to 11 hole-in-ones in a single round of golf—but it would be quite an accomplishment on the links.
Maybe Trump has won 19 championships, and one at each of his clubs. It seems quite unlikely he's had the time to hold the title at each of his clubs right now. Like most things with Trump, it seems a layer of bluster conceals the truth. 


Manchester United is set to miss out on would-be free agent Mesut Ozil as the Arsenal man looks most likely to join Inter Milan, according to reports.
Ozil’s contract at the Emirates Stadium runs out at the end of the season, meaning he is free to come to a pre-contract agreement with any club he wishes in January.
On Tuesday,  The Independent reported that  Jose Mourinho was keen on a reunion with Ozil at Old Trafford, a move that would be devastating for Arsenal and Arsene Wenger–and one they could do little about.
But on Wednesday the  London Evening Standard suggested that the German playmaker’s most likely destination is Italy, joining Inter Milan.
Arsenal, the report says, is still in negotiations with Ozil but is not likely to meet his demands of £350,000-a-week. The club is offering him an increase of £110,000, from £140,000-a-week to £250,000-a-week. But Ozil is showing no signs of committing his future to north London.
Related:   Jose Mourinho identifies Arsenal star as January target–and he won’t cost a penny
Last summer, Serie A giant Inter Milan was taken over by Chinese investors Suning Commerce Group, which is expected to lead to considerable investment in the coming years.
It would, however, be a coup for  Mourinho to convince the 28-year-old to join him at Old Trafford. The  Manchester United manager worked with Ozil at Real Madrid from 2010 through 2013, both leaving at the same time for London.
Mourinho returned to Stamford Bridge to become the Chelsea manager, where he took the club to the Premier League title in 2015. Ozil became Arsenal’s most expensive signing at the time.
Arsenal’s attempts to negotiate a new deal with the 28-year-old German have been unsuccessful, and could lose both him and Alexis Sanchez to  Manchester at the start of 2018.
Sanchez’s contract in north London also finishes next summer and Arsenal looks certain to lose him for nothing, despite Manchester City’s deadline day offer of £60 million (about $79 million).
Jose Mourinho at WEB Arena, Moscow, Russia, September 27.   Dan Mullan/Getty


There’s a moment in Youth, director Paolo Sorrentino’s uneven but frequently hilarious follow-up to his masterpiece, The Great Beauty, that seems to sum up the nature of celebrity in the modern age.
“But who were you? Who? That’s what I always ask myself,” Rachel Weisz’s character demands of her father, a once-famous composer now living out the remainder of his days in a strange, sterile Swiss health farm.
The famous become alien even to their closest family members and friends, Sorrentino seems to suggest, let alone to those who seek to peer into their lives from the outside. It’s a theme that seems applicable to Cristiano Ronaldo, the world’s most famous footballer if not one of the world’s most famous faces, period. The public knows a little about Ronaldo, the Portuguese forward who made his name at Sporting Lisbon and Manchester United before magnifying his fame at Real Madrid, many times over. We know he grew up on the small Portuguese island of Madeira, that he dotes over his mother, that he is almost fanatically committed to keeping his body healthy. That he has three children with another on the way, the first born to a surrogate mother in the United States. Glimpses through a frosted window-pane—even a long-form 2016 piece in  GQ seemed designed to show you can get close to Ronaldo, physically, and remain at several arms’ lengths.
Perhaps it shouldn’t be such a surprise that if Ronaldo were ever going to open the window a little more, it should be to the  Players’ Tribune. Sportspeople seem to like Derek Jeter’s publication, and with reason. They can be heard, or read, in their own words; they can transmit the message they want. Sometimes that is a problem in the case of controversies, but it can also produce unexpectedly honest results. With a pen, or keyboard, rather than a microphone and journalist comes a certain increase in freedom, a decrease in tension.
Jeter, the face of the New York Yankees turned Miami Marlins co-owner, has got Ronaldo to divulge details on his life and emotions. In a piece penned for the website and published on Tuesday, Ronaldo indulges in a little Proustian reminiscence about his childhood. “I would look to the sidelines before every match and see my dad standing there alone,” he writes. “Then one day—I will never forget this image—I was warming up and looked over and I saw my mom and sisters sitting together on the bleachers. They looked...how do I say this? They looked cozy. They were kind of huddled close together, and they were not clapping or yelling, they were just waving to me, like I was in a parade or something. They definitely looked like they had never been to a football match before. But they were there. That’s all I cared about.”
“When you lose, it’s like you’re starving. When you win, it’s  still like you’re starving, but you ate a little crumb. This is the only way I can explain it.” Ronaldo writes later in the piece. It’s good stuff—the kind of insight into the mind of an uber-elite athlete that he would never give you on your terms. Ronaldo even gives insight into the most private part of his very private life, his children. “When I was on the pitch after the final whistle [of the 2017 Champions League final won by Real Madrid], it felt like I had sent a message to the world,” he writes. “But then my son came on the field to celebrate with me... and it was like the snap of a finger. Suddenly, the entire emotion changed.”
It’s kind of odd, perhaps, that a former baseball icon got a European football icon to provide more emotion than he ever has in a newspaper interview. This is probably as open as Ronaldo is ever going to be, so make the most of it.


Aaron Judge has accomplished and endured many things in his rookie season with the New York Yankees: 52 home runs, an American League rookie record; a much-publicized slump; highlight reel grabs in the outfield and, on Monday night, a booming line-drive into the bleachers in the Bronx in his first-ever postseason appearance.
That’s saying nothing, either, of Judge’s intangibles: the easy smile, the quiet, confident manner and the aura that his size lends him. Whether or not he is named American League M.V.P., Judge has been the breakout star of baseball in 2017, a superheroic figure for a sport and a league in need of some youthful zip.
The crack of his bat when he smashes a ball in the middle of the plate is probably the loudest thing about Judge, a reserved character whose political views remain a source of mystery at a time when professional sport in the United States is humming with the spirit of political and social rebellion. The National Football League has found itself at the epicenter of the debate over the treatment of black Americans by police, after San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick began kneeling during the National Anthem last October. President Donald Trump’s remarks at a rally in Alabama on September 23 that NFL owners should “fire” anyone choosing to kneel seemed to unite the league against him, as well as provoking arguments over the place of the NFL, and professional sport, within social justice movements.
Type “Aaron Judge and politics” into Google, though, and you get nothing. Judge, who was adopted as a child and who is listed by a June 2013 MLB article as African-American, has said nothing about the great issue currently meshing sport and politics together in the U.S.
Conservatives seem to have picked up on Judge’s apparent reluctance to speak out. A  National Review article published on Tuesday with the headline, “A Judge Both Conservatives and Liberals Can Admire” listed his feats as usual before moving on to his politics, or lack of it. “In a time where sports has become politicized on both the left and the right, Aaron Judge has remained refreshingly above the fray,” the piece read. “Aaron Judge is the one judge in this country that both conservatives and liberals can unite behind, except of course for those who are Boston Red Sox fans.”
Judge’s silence may be less his own than MLB’s in general. In an interview with  GQ magazine published on Tuesday, Gary Sheffield lamented the declining number of African-American players in professional baseball. “When I was a kid, you had all these guys, athletes like Jim Brown, Muhammad Ali, and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, following Dr. Martin Luther King. I’ll only speak for baseball, but nowadays we don’t have an Ali,” Sheffield said. “We don’t even have the  personalities of my generation and the one before me. Baseball has become so soldier-like, bow your head type stuff.” Only Oakland A’s catcher Bruce Maxwell has taken a knee so far of all the players in MLB.
Of course, there is no obligation for Judge to say what he thinks. His job is to crush baseballs, a job he continues to do extremely well. As his fame grows due to his on-field accomplishments, though, the man waking baseball up with his bat may come under increasing pressure to be woke off the field, too.


Bizarre advertisements for Fox Sports 1 caught the attention of many taking the 42nd Street shuttle between Times Square and Grand Central Terminal in New York this week, but one man took particular offense.
Pictures of  New York Knicks duo Tim Hardaway Jr. and Joakim Noah, who in 2017 will earn $16.5 million and $13.4 million, were featured on the sides of the train next to the word "hopeless."
Once on the train, there was more. One seat featured a sign that said: “Sit here if you’re hopeless,” while another said, “The high point of the last 25 years was the movie Eddie,” referring to the 1996 film in which fan Whoopi Goldberg is named as the Knicks coach.
A third seat with a print on it sent a very direct message: “Nothing will change until Dolan sells the team” in reference to Knicks owner James Dolan. And it seems to have caught his attention. According to  SNY’s Adam Zagoria, Dolan was “furious” and called Rupert Murdoch, Executive Co-Chairman of Fox Sports parent company 21st Century Fox, directly to complain.
Related:   LeBron James was asked about Knicks move, and failed to deny it
 
On the shuttle that runs between grand central and Times Square lmao pic.twitter.com/iWMrHJijU7
 
 
Maybe this is like Triangle marketing... pic.twitter.com/3DVfNBIKCL
 
The campaign was meant to last four weeks, the  New York Post reported, but came to a premature end on Tuesday evening after Dolan’s complaint.
Fox bosses found themselves “dealing with a shitstorm internally,” an industry source told Zagoria. “If you post something like this you have to expect Dolan’s wrath.” In the end, the Fox campaign lasted little more than 48 hours.
Related:   Who is Laurene Powell Jobs? Meet the NBA’s Newest Billionaire Owner
It wasn’t all doom and gloom, however. Players like Kristaps Porzingis, Michael Beasley and Mindaugas Kuzminskas were presented as the light at the end of the tunnel for the Knicks. The word "hopeful" appeared next to their photos.
The Knicks haven’t won a Championship since the 1970s, when two-time Most Valuable Player Willis Reed led the team to victory.
The preseason began for the Knicks on Tuesday night with a 115-107 loss to the Brooklyn Nets. They play four more times before the regular season begins against the Oklahoma Thunder, when they come face-to-face with the just-traded Carmelo Anthony once again.
James Dolan at Madison Square Garden, New York City, March 18, 2014.   Maddie Meyer/Getty


Supporters of Arsenal Football Club may have yet another reason to be grumpy. 
Arsenal’s largest shareholder, Stan Kroenke—who also owns several U.S. sports franchises, including the Los Angeles Rams—has made a bid of around £525 million ($696.7 million) to buy out Alisher Usmanov, the second-largest shareholder at Emirates Stadium, according to  The Guardian newspaper.
Kroenke owns 67 percent of Arsenal’s shares while Usmanov, the Uzbek-born Russian billionaire, has a 30.4 percent stake. If Kroenke is successful in buying out Usmanov he will own 97.4 percent of the club, with the remaining 2.6 percent belonging to minority shareholders, many of whom have long-standing interest in the club handed down through generations according to  The Guardian.
Kroenke, who also owns the Denver Nuggets, Colorado Avalanche and Colorado Rapids of Major League Soccer, would potentially be in a position to buy up the remaining shares should Usmanov accept his offer of £28,000 per share, making Arsenal a private business.
Usmanov has previously tried to outmanoeuvre Kroenke to increase his own stake in the club. The Telegraph reported in May that Usmanov had made a $1 billion bid to buy Kroenke’s shares. Usmanov was described by the newspaper at the time as “increasingly frustrated” at his lack of influence over the north London club.
The attempt by Kroenke to buy out Usmanov not likely to go down well with Arsenal fans. The move to Emirates Stadium from Highbury in the summer of 2006 was meant to ensure the club remained one of English football’s superpowers. But Arsenal has not won the Premier League since 2004 and is not playing in the lucrative Champions League this season, having finished fifth in England’s top division in 2016-17.
While Manchester United, one of Arsenal’s great rivals, has mostly prospered since the Glazer family took control in 2005,  The Guardian claims a similar move from Kroenke would be “troubling,” as the American would no longer need to hold A.G.M.s or publish accounts and could also leverage debt against the club.
Kroenke’s interest in Arsenal has raised considerable interest in the U.S. that is certain to increase should he assume full control. A  USA Today piece from October 2016 described Kroenke as “even more of an enigma” in the U.K. than in the U.S.
Still struggling to regain its form and success of the early 21st century on the pitch, Arsenal may now be forced into more upheaval off it.


One of the wealthiest women in the world has reportedly become the newest owner of an NBA team. Laurene Powell Jobs, the billionaire philanthropist, has bought a stake in Monumental Sports & Entertainment which controls the NBA's Washington Wizards and NHL's Capitals, according to The Washington Post.
Her investment, said to be worth hundreds of millions of dollars, will see Powell Jobs own 20 percent of Monumental, the second largest stake after Ted Leonsis. Though the deal is yet to be approved by the NBA and NHL, Powell Jobs is set to become one of the most influential women in sports.
She would be only the fourth female NBA franchise owner, joining Jeanie Buss of the Lakers, Ann Walton Kroenke of the Nuggets, and Gail Miller of the Jazz. 
On March 18, 1991, Laurene Powell’s surname got a little longer, adding what would become one of the world's most well-known names: Jobs. She married Steve Jobs, the late chief executive and co-founder of Apple Inc. who died in 2011, and much of her $20 billion fortune comes from her stock in the company.
Laurene Powell Jobs at Pier 48, San Francisco, California, September 20.   Steve Jennings/Getty
According to the Post’s report, Powell Jobs also owns four percent of the Walt Disney Company. This vast wealth has allowed her engage in philanthropic work. In 2004, she launched Emerson Collective, which is an organization “dedicated to removing barriers to opportunity so people can live to their full potential.”
It focuses on education, immigration reform, environmental issues and social justice. Earlier this summer, Emerson Collective also bought a majority stake in The Atlantic  magazine, sharing ownership with David Bradley. The name Emerson Collective, Powell Jobs says, was inspired by the co-founder of  The Atlantic, Ralph Waldo Emerson.
“What I loved about Laurene from the first is that her confidence was forged on a different coast,”  Bradley said. “And, if anything, her ambition is greater than my own.”
Owning an NBA franchise has clearly been a target for Powell Jobs. A few years ago, she reportedly launched an ultimately unsuccessful bid for the L.A. Clippers and, according to NetsDaily, she was also interested in purchasing the Brooklyn Nets in 2015. Fortunately, for Powell Jobs, she looks to have been more successful this time round with the Wizards, valued at $1 billion in 2015 but likely to be worth more now.
Her desire to get involved in an NBA team is intended to help drive forward the Emerson Collective goal. “Laurene and Ted share the same commitment to a double bottom line, that the best companies are those that do good in their communities,” a source told the Post.


Luis Severino dug the New York Yankees, and himself, a hole on Monday night in the Bronx.
The Yankees’ mix of young sluggers and veterans dug them out of it, seeing off the Twins in a raucous American League wild-card game 8-4. After Severino gave up three runs for one out and was pulled without completing the first inning, Didi Gregorius hammered a home run to even up the score at 3-3.
Brett Gardner, the longest-tenured Yankee on the roster, hit his own home run in the second inning to put his team ahead, waking up a crowd that had been stunned by Severino’s struggles.
And then, in the fourth inning, Judge hammered his name into MLB postseason history. The 25-year-old took a pitch in the center of the plate from Jose Berrios, who had replaced a struggling Ervin Santana, a line drive that went low and hard into the front rows of the bleachers.
"He's just very intimidating—the size and the strength," Twins manager Paul Molitor said post-game in quotes reported by  ESPN. "There's just a very small margin of error."
Judge exploded out of the blocks early in the season but slowed down markedly after he won the 2017 Home Run Derby at Marlins Park in Miami on July 10.
He found form, though, in the final weeks of the regular season and ended with 52 home runs to lead the American League. That feat broke Mark McGwire’s previous American League rookie record of 49, set in 1987 for the Oakland Athletics. With his home run on Monday, Judge became only the third rookie in Yankees history to homer in his postseason debut, according to  Elias Sports Bureau.
The Yankees move on to a five-game Divisional Series matchup against the Cleveland Indians, which begins at Progressive Field on Thursday. It remains to be seen whether Severino gets another start in Game One. Judge, though, looks set to take over the postseason as he did in the regular part of a remarkable rookie campaign.



Real Madrid is considering making a £177 million (about $235 million) offer for Tottenham striker Harry Kane next summer, according to reports in Spain.
Kane has stood out as one of the most prolific players in the Premier League in recent years, finishing the last two seasons as top scorer. The  England striker, who only turned 24 in July, has scored 13 times in his last eight games for club and country.
Such numbers are reminiscent of only two players in world football: Real’s  Cristiano Ronaldo and Barcelona’s  Lionel Messi. Messi is the only player to have more goals than Kane this season in Europe’s top leagues.
According to Spain’s  Don Balon, Kane’s continuous prolificity has caught the attention of the Madrid and they will not be scared off by a €200 million price tag, which equates to about £177 million.
Related:   Man United identifies Arsenal star as January target–and Jose Mourinho won’t pay a penny
Cristiano Ronaldo at Estadio Santiago Bernabeu, Madrid, Spain, October 1.   Denis Doyle/Getty
Kane signed a new deal at  White Hart Lane in December, which would keep him at the club until 2022, but his wages only reach £120,000-a-week–relatively low for a player of Kane’s ability.
He would, also, not be the first player to trade the Lily White of Spurs for the Los Blancos of Spain. Four years ago, Gareth Bale became the most expensive footballer in the world when he signed for Madrid from Tottenham for £86 million, joining Luka Modric who had made the same move a year before.
Both have thrived since signing, winning the Champions League three times, La Liga once and a Copa del Rey. While Spurs has improved dramatically under  Mauricio Pochettino’s guidance, becoming one of the most complete team’s in English football, the Argentine is yet to win any silverware.
Spurs chased Leicester City for the majority of the way in 2016 before falling away in the last weeks of the season, finally finishing third. Then, Pochettino’s team was the only competition for Chelsea throughout the last campaign, ending as runner-up.
Kane’s importance to the team is clear, scoring a third of the team’s goals last season and half so far for this campaign. The lure of silver in Madrid is strong for most players, but Tottenham will, once again, be desperate to resist.


As the face of the New York Yankees for so many years, Derek Jeter built a legacy on being able to deliver repeatedly in high-pressure situations.
Now Jeter finds himself in another, if very different, high-pressure situation as the Miami Marlins co-owner. And it sounds as if he’s going to try and put those clutch, Hall of Fame nerves to good use.
In a series of essays for the  Players' Tribune, the publication he founded, Jeter laid out a general blueprint for how he plans to run a franchise that was touched by tragedy last year with the death of Jose Fernandez, and finished the 2017 regular season with a losing record.
Jeter and controlling owner Bruce Sherman led the investment group that made the $1.2 billion purchase from Jeffrey Loria, who oversaw eight straight losing seasons in Miami—the longest streak in Major League Baseball.
“The way I see it, doing things the right way, over and over, leads to sustained success,” Jeter wrote on Tuesday. “I’m not just talking about wins and losses—winning games is very important to everyone—but also about developing a winning culture throughout the organization. That’s what is most important, and that journey starts today. It will not happen overnight. But our ownership group is focused on building a team that this community can be proud of.
“The next era of Marlins baseball begins now. Let’s have some fun—it’s the Miami way.”
Alongside Jeter’s piece, the  Players Tribune' published a photo essay of a mostly-smiling Jeter on his first day at work as co-owner. In one, Jeter signs a ball for a small boy in a Giancarlo Stanton jersey.
The timing is interesting, for sure. The decision over whether to trade Stanton, the probably National League M.V.P. and MLB home-run king this season, is the most pressing on-field challenge Jeter faces. Stanton slugged at a historic rate in the 2017 season, hammering 59 homers.
But the face of the franchise, as Jeter was in New York, has that vast $325 million contract tying him to the Marlins through the 2029 season. “I don’t want to rebuild… I’ve lost for seven years,” Stanton told  FanRag Sports last Friday, on a weekend when he could have broken Roger Maris’s mark of 61 home runs in a season. In an article published on Tuesday,  Yahoo Sports noted the debt the new Marlins ownership has taken on, claiming that Jeter will look to slash the payroll and naturally enter a rebuild. In which case, Stanton’s contract no longer fits in Miami. Of course, with a full no-trade clause it’s Stanton’s decision where he goes, if he goes.
Interesting timing, too, on the day the young, rebuilding Yankees play the Twins in the Bronx in the American League wild-card game. The Yankees look to have a core in place now with Aaron Judge, Gary Sanchez, Luis Severino and Greg Bird. The Marlins can’t hope to accomplish the same, really, unless they trade Stanton.
It’s unlikely someone as savvy as Jeter would use Stanton’s name in a picture, on his own publication no less, without some kind of significance behind it. Perhaps he stays; more likely he goes—either way, it’s a decision that will define the first part of Jeter’s tenure.


God bless Joel Embiid. He's a fun-loving dude who seems to create that fun wherever he goes. 
If Embiid isn't dancing, he's either sleeping, training or playing basketball—I don't think he walks, he just dances from place to place. The massive Philadelphia 76er center cracks jokes on the regular—he nicknamed himself "The Process" in homage to the motto "Trust the Process" adopted by diehard Philly fans and listeners of the hit Sixers podcast The Rights to Ricky Sanchez. And oh, if he's healthy—which granted, is a big if—Embiid is an absolute monster on the basketball court. In short: right now, there's nobody as beloved in Philly as Embiid—it's hard to overstate the level of beloved-ness. It's like he has gone out of his way to ensure he's exactly the star the town has been craving. (If you can't tell, I grew up outside of Philadelphia and I'm well acquainted with Embiid's story and Philly fans.) 
So, folks in Philadelphia predictably got excited when the seven-foot center was spotted on a somewhat random jog through the city late at night Monday. Embiid is slowly returning to full health after suffering a knew injury last year, hopefully to return to the team for the start of the regular season later this month.
A Lyft driver captured Embiid running through streets—a la fictional Philly hero Rocky—with a dash-cam video. According to the time stamp on the dash camera, this happened at about 9:15 p.m. Monday night. 
Sports Illustrated's Twitter account uploaded the video (credited to Evan Bowen-Gaddy's YouTube channel), which begins with Embiid and another unidentified person running through an intersection, entering the frame of the Lyft dash-cam video out of nowhere.
The Lyft driver, clearly excited, only manages to say, "YO!" as Embiid crosses through the street. From there, according to the text of the video, the driver got a pick-up request that happened to be in the same direction as Embiid. He rushes that way, slowing down behind a driver in a truck who appears to be chatting up the Sixer. "I panic... and say the only words I know" reads the text of the video. 
"Yo, trust the process," yelled the driver, to which Embiid raised both his hands triumphantly. "I love you!"
Read the text of the video, "Pure happiness." 
Watch the video in the embedded tweet below (also if you have more video of Embiid running or doing pretty much anything, hit me up at @timmarcin on Twitter or email t.marcin@newsweek.com.)



Jose Mourinho is planning to make a move for Arsenal midfielder Mesut Ozil in January which would see him move to Old Trafford for free in the summer, according to reports.
The  Manchester United manager worked with Ozil at Real Madrid from 2010 through 2013, and is highly confident about convincing him to join him in the north west of England,  The Independent says.
Ozil, who joined  Arsenal in 2013 for a then club record fee, is free to speak to any club in January as his contract at the Emirates Stadium will expire in the summer.
Arsenal’s attempts to negotiate a new deal with the 28-year-old German have been unsuccessful, and could lose both him and Alexis Sanchez to  Manchester at the start of 2018.
Sanchez’s contract in north London also finishes next summer and Arsenal looks certain to lose him for nothing, despite Manchester City’s deadline day offer of £60 million (about $79 million).
Related: Why Jose Mourinho was furious with one of his players but had to forgive him
Jose Mourinho at St Mary's Stadium, Southampton, England, September 23.   Clive Rose/Getty
Reports in the summer suggested City forward Raheem Sterling had been part of the deal proposed to Arsenal, as a cash-plus-player offer.
But now Arsene Wenger looks in danger of losing two key players for free.
It would not be the first time the French manager saw his best players move to Manchester. In 2012, Arsenal sold Dutch striker Robin van Persie to United for £24 million, and he went on to win the Premier League title and the Golden Boot in his first year at Old Trafford.
Manchester United, meanwhile, is joint top of the Premier League table with neighbour City heading into the international break. Mourinho’s team has scored an average of three goals a game in the first seven fixtures, conceding just twice.
Arsenal has begun to recover from a poor start to the season with back-to-back victories against West Brom and Brighton and Hove Albion. 


Ever since Carmelo Anthony was traded to Oklahoma City Thunder last week, there has been one question on the mind of Knicks fans.
Who, they want to know, will replace  Anthony as the new star forward in New York and help propel  the Knicks back up the Eastern Conference? They will be pleased to hear, then, that Jeff Hornacek has a man in his team with the qualities of  Kevin Durant, equal with  LeBron James and “up there with the best guys in the world.” Michael Beasley says that man is Michael Beasley.
The 28-year-old small forward signed with the Knicks at the beginning of August after just a year with the Milwaukee Bucks. He says he is underestimated.
"[It's] mostly perception. As far as talent-wise, I match up with Kevin [Durant], LeBron, I match up with the best guys in the world," Beasley told  Bleacher Report. "I'm not being cocky, it's just always how I felt. But I got into trouble as soon as I got into the NBA, and it left a bad taste in a lot of people's mouths."
Read More:   Why Knicks had the 23rd worst defense in the NBA last year revealed
Michael Beasley at New York Knicks Media Day, Greenburgh, New York, September 25.   Jeff Zelevansky/Getty
In nine years, Beasley has already played for 10 teams, including three stints with the Miami Heat, where he started his career. He was with the Timberwolves for two years, and then spent a year with the Phoenix Suns. Beasley also spent time in China, playing for the Shanghai Sharks and Shandong Golden Stars before returning to the U.S. in 2016.
He joined the Houston Rockets in March 2016 but was traded to the Bucks seven months later, before making his move to New York two months ago. His record, he says, shows his quality but he has never been given a fair chance.
"If you look over the past nine years, I never played more than 24-25 minutes a game,” Beasley said. “Being a No. 2 pick, especially in my first 3-4 years, that should raise a question mark. Not to toot my own horn, but not a lot of guys come into the NBA after the kind of year I had at Kansas State. For whatever reason, I just never got a fair shake."
He may be given his first opportunity in Hornacek’s team on Tuesday night when the Brooklyn Nets are the Knicks’ opposition at Madison Square Garden. Hornacek’s team then plays four more preseason games before the regular season begins on October 20 against the Thunder.


Remember what happened when Zaza Pachulia landed on Kawhi Leonard’s precious left ankle on Sunday, May 14, 2017 at Oracle Arena in Oakland?
Leonard, the two-time All-Star, two-time All-NBA, two-time Defensive Player of the Year, limped off with eight minutes remaining in the third quarter of the Western Conference Finals Game One against the Golden State Warriors, with the San Antonio Spurs leading by 25 points.
What happened next was accurately, if tangentially, captured by Spurs head coach Gregg Popovich in his post-game words. Bear in mind that Popovich—an articulate, reasonable, not to mention woke soul—had a whole night to sleep off his anger. "Who gives a damn about what [Pachulia's] intent was?” Popovich said in quotes reported by  Sports On Earth. “You ever hear of manslaughter? You still go to jail, I think, when you're texting and you end up killing somebody, but you might not have intended to do that…A two-step, lead-with-your-foot closeout is not appropriate. It's dangerous, it's unsportsmanlike. It's just not what anybody does to anybody else. And this particular individual has a history with that kind of action."
Popovich was angry with Pachulia, of course, but also with what Leonard’s absence would mean for the Spurs. Without Leonard on the court, Popovich watched that lead evaporate. Without Leonard for the series, the Spurs were swept 4-0, bounced from the Western Conference’s exclusive club without ceremony.
And now the Spurs are without Leonard again, for the whole preseason, The Washington Post reported over the weekend. The 26-year-old has what is described as a “lingering” quadriceps injury. “We’re not going to put a timetable on it,” Popovich said on Saturday. “But he’s working at it, and we’ll get him back as soon as we can.”
With Leonard’s extraterrestrial two-way game, the Spurs have a chance of upsetting the Warriors in the playoffs. History, frustratingly, won’t tell us what might have happened in Game 1 had Leonard not gone down but logic suggests the series would not have turned into a procession for the Warriors.
Without Leonard, and as well-coached as they are, the ageing Spurs look a step or several behind the Western Conference’s monoliths. The Rockets, to name but one, re-tooled in the summer after the Spurs edged by them in the semifinals in May—a series in which Leonard took over. Popovich needs his All-Star back, as soon as possible.


Despite starting preseason with two defeats, Luke Walton and the Lakers are not feeling too down about their prospects this season after Lonzo Ball starred in his first games for the team. He does, however, have some room for improvement.
Lakers lost their first game 108-99 to the Minnesota Timberwolves on Saturday and were then beaten by the Denver Nuggets on Sunday.  Ball, the 19-year-old point guard who has been described as the “new face of the Lakers,” scored five points, made eight assists, seven rebounds and two steals against the Timberwolves.
Although the youngster is already exciting  the Lakers fans, Walton wants him to improve on his quality in and around the basket, and actually be more selfish.
“Lonzo is so gifted as far as the way he always makes everyone on the court a threat," Walton said, as quoted by  ESPN. "With him, we have been working on that. He is so unselfish that sometimes he has good shots for himself and he tries to get someone else a shot. We want him taking those.
Related:   Lonzo Ball, Lakers big hope, seems to think he’ll go down in NBA history
"We are looking for him to be a little more aggressive to score the ball, especially early on. I thought he was great the way he was moving around out there and getting people involved."
The rookie did, however, receive a standing ovation from  the Lakers president of basketball operations Magic Johnson, who has been effusive over Ball ever since he signed in the draft.
Take a look:

After Ball signed for the Lakers in June, Johnson said the point-guard reminded him of himself, saying they had the same “basketball IQ.”
“I'm going to put a little pressure on you right now," Johnson said to Lonzo Ball. "You look to your right, there's some jerseys hanging on that wall. We expect a Ball jersey hanging up there one day, all right? Good."
Walton, for now, is the man charged with getting him there. Ball has some work to do yet with six games to go until the regular season resumes on October 20 against the Clippers.
Lonzo Ball at the Thomas & Mack Center, Las Vegas, Nevada, July 16.   Ethan Miller/Getty


The NFL’s last unbeaten team in 2017 is a franchise with one playoff victory since January 8 1994.
The Kansas City Chiefs maintained stayed perfect on Monday night when Alex Smith calmly took his offense for a late field goal to see off the talented but error-riddled Washington Redskins.
CBS put it neatly in its post-game wrap-up: “The Patriots’ defense stinks, the Seahawks’ offensive line is a catastrophe, the Packers always need their quarterback to perform like a god, the Falcons have been playing down to their level of competition… the Chiefs have been the lone exception.”
In a league where all the supposedly elite teams have at least one major flaw, the Chiefs have reached 4-0 by doing everything pretty well.
The receivers, led by Tyreek Hill and Travis Kelce, are excellent. The defense, when fully healthy, can be great. Special teams, and in particular the return game again led by Hill, are dangerous. The quarterback, as he showed on Monday night, is rarely less than good.
They get good coaching—outside of the playoffs at least—from Andy Reid and Bob Sutton, one of the NFL’s sharpest defensive minds. The running game now looks borderline elite with the emergence of Kareem Hunt.
But it is the absence of major mistakes that is allowing the Chiefs to win tight games. The Redskins, with an inarguably more talented quarterback in Kirk Cousins and a talented defense, tripped themselves up on Monday with penalties—head coach Jay Gruden admitted as such. The week before, Philip Rivers threw three interceptions at StubHub Center, while Smith did not turn the ball over. The Chargers—and the Redskins, for that matter—can seem like the reverse of Reid’s group, repeatedly finding ways to lose.
That a mid-market, fiscally prurient franchise—outside linebacker Justin Houston carries the heaviest cap hit this season at $22.1 million—can lead the NFL will please the league’s powerbrokers, including Commissioner Roger Goodell.
Good drafting means key offensive players like Hill and Hunt are on comparatively tiny contracts, allowing money to be spent on the defense and Smith. Even then, Smith will earn the 15th-highest salary of all franchise quarterbacks this season, at $16.9 million. That’s less than the injured Sam Bradford, Eli Manning, Rivers and Carson Palmer, whose vast deal looks a weight around the Cardinals’ neck. Kelce, locked in through 2021, is surely on one of the NFL’s best contracts. The tight end will make $5,418,400 this season according to  SpotRac .
But it seems a good bet that despite all that the Chiefs will come unstuck in the playoffs, possibly in the AFC Championship game against the Steelers. At this rate, the Patriots could also lurk as a nasty wild-card team. Still, they may be showing the league’s rich, talent-stocked and underperforming franchises a safer, more solid way forward in the strange, topsy-turvy world of the NFL in 2017.


Kyrie Irving got his first outing in a Celtics uniform at TD Garden on Monday night, a 94-82 win over the Charlotte Hornets at TD Garden in Boston.
Irving’s Celtics debut was solid—though it was strange to see him in green-and-white and not lining up next to LeBron James in red-and-yellow.
Along with Gordon Hayward, the Celtics’ major free-agent summer acquisition and a man also making his debut, the Celtics had a very different look from the team that lost to the Cavaliers in the Eastern Conference finals at the end of May.
Irving, who was benched along with Hayward for the second half, has been pretty quiet since  that trade in August that sent Isaiah Thomas, beloved in Boston, to the Cavaliers along with a draft pick that relies on the Brooklyn Nets playing down to expectations.
Even in his  ESPN First Take interview with Stephen A. Smith and Max Kellerman, Irving was careful to keep his criticism of James, the Cavaliers and their coaching staff veiled. The nearest Irving came to outright criticism of James was when he described the leaked trade news as “hurtful.” (Smith had  previously claimed Irving’s camp believed James had leaked the news).
Irving’s apparent shot at James on Monday night was in the same vein. The point guard wore a cap after the game that read, “Popularity contests are not truth contests,” in a video posted to YouTube by the Boston Globe’s national NBA writer Gary Washburn.

Irving and James meet on opposite sides of the court for the first time on October 18 when the Cavaliers visit the Celtics in the NBA season opener at TD Garden. Perhaps only then will the weird passive-aggressiveness stop.


As the Knicks prepare to begin their preseason on Wednesday, there seems little to be excited about in New York.
The team lost  Carmelo Anthony last month, traded to the Oklahoma Thunder in return for Enes Kanter, Doug McDermott and a second-round pick for the 2018 draft. There isn’t much optimism over the deal.
And that comes after a season in which the Knicks had the 23rd worst defense in the league, with a points differential of minus 3.7. But coach Jeff Hornacek is pretty certain he knows why.
Last year,  Hornacek left the defensive organization to the veteran players in his team, giving them the opportunity to determine the opposition. That didn’t work out so well, so Hornacek and his staff have learned from their mistakes.
Related:   Carmelo Anthony has left New York, so do the Knicks have a plan in place?
“We're not doing that this year," Hornacek said, as quoted by  ESPN. "When we go to shoot around that (defensive) plan will be in place. We'll know the adjustments, instead of trying to give the guys the idea, ‘Hey, you guys play, you guys know these guys. What's the best way to do it?'"
Hornacek suggested the errors last season may have been down to him, but insisted the Knicks have spent this summer focusing on defensive work.
"I played on teams that had great veteran players,” he added. “We had a basic thing, but most of the time it was, ‘Okay, I'm going to be doing this, you're going to be doing this and we worked it out.' That's maybe what I thought we'd be able to do last year with the guys. But that's, we found out that didn't work the best for us. This year we worked all summer to try to figure these things out."
The Knicks launch their preseason at Madison Square Garden on Wednesday, with the Brooklyn Nets traveling to New York for the first warm-up game of the campaign.
They then face the Wizards twice, Nets again, Rockets, and Thunder before starting the regular season in Oklahoma where Anthony will face his old team in his first competitive start for the Thunder. The defense, by then, may not be as easy to beat as he remembers.
Jeff Hornacek at TD Garden, Boston, Massachusetts, January 18.   Maddie Meyer/Getty


Fortunately for Dwight Howard there is still 15 days and five warm-up games remaining for Charlotte until the regular season resumes.
On October 19, the Hornets travel to the Little Caesars Arena in Detroit to take on the Pistons and, by then, the team will hope that Howard will have spent much of his time on the court—at the free-throw line.
Howard is becoming increasingly notorious for his inaccuracy from the line, so on Monday night there was anticipation when the Hornets were awarded a free-throw in the first quarter against the Celtics, with the scores at 17-12 to Boston.
Howard, a 13-year  NBA veteran, stepped up, stretched his arms out and sent his effort looping to the left of the net, hitting nothing but air.
A stunned silence filled the arena and the NBC commentator simply said: “Wow.”
Related:   Do Knicks have a plan in place post-Carmelo Anthony? They’ve got the next Kyrie Irving, apparently
Take a look:
 
It&#39;s ok Dwight Howard...you can still work on your free throws before the season starts _(via @clippittv) pic.twitter.com/ESASAei3Wt
 
This is not the first time Howard has made an airball from the charity stripe, and has record of just 56.6 percent as a shooter.
Hornets went on to lose the game 94-82, and although Howard’s miss made little difference in the scheme of things, Steve Clifford will want him perfecting his shot over the next two weeks or his duties may have to be passed on.
Kyrie Irving, meanwhile, making his first game for Boston, may have had a little sympathy for Howard: “You know what it felt like, it was just so wide out there," said Irving, quoted by  ESPN.
"I don't know if you even understand what I'm saying, like when we start off the game, like my eyes were just wide. And the basket was a little bit smaller and things were just a lot bigger than what they are. And that's just literally not playing basketball on an NBA floor for a few months.”
Not playing basketball in a few months won’t be an excuse for Howard if he’s hitting airballs by the end of October, though.
Dwight Howard at Regal Atlantic Station, Atlanta, Georgia, May 14.   Paras Griffin/Getty


A former Marine kicked two Texas students off a school football team, telling them to remove their jerseys and leave the field, after they protested the national anthem before a game.
The two Victory & Praise Christian Academy football players and cousins, Cedric Ingram-Lewis and Larry McCullough, protested the anthem by raising a fist and kneeling Friday night in solidarity with former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick who kneeled because he could not stand for “a country that oppresses black people and people of color,” he once told reporters.  

Kaepernick’s kneel has spurred copycats and sparked a nationwide debate that led President Donald Trump to throw his two cents into the ring when he called anyone who refused to stand a “son of a b***.”
The debate is now playing out in classrooms and high school football fields like the Crosby field where Ingram-Lewis and McCullough played. The school coach, Ronnie Mitchem, told the Houston Chronicle that he had a deal with his students that no one would kneel during the anthem. Mitchem, a veteran and pastor, said kneeling is offensive to veterans.
"Like I said, I'm a former Marine,” he told the Chronicle. "That just doesn't fly and they knew that. I don't have any problem with those young men. They chose to do that and they had to pay for the consequences."
Mitchem would have preferred for his students to kneel after a touchdown or hand out papers about the issues.
The students went against their coach’s wishes Friday night and the coach told them to leave their uniforms on the field.
"He told us that disrespect will not be tolerated," Ingram-Lewis, a sophomore, told the Chronicle.
Before the game, one of the teens had posted about kneeling on social media. The team has previously discussed the subject of kneeling in the locker room.
Ingram-Lewis’s mother told ABC13 that the coach can't keep students from exercising their right to protest. 
"He has a slave master mentality," she said. "If you were to go back to that when they wanted to tell us this is what you are going to do and this is how you do it. And if we didn't comply, we were beaten, whooped or even killed."
Courts have long upheld that students have the right to abstain from standing for the national anthem or saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
“In terms of student rights, there seems little to discuss,” JoAnn Bartoletti, executive director of the National Association of Secondary School Principals, said in a statement.  “Courts have affirmed and reaffirmed that students do not check their First Amendment rights at the schoolhouse gate, and speech cannot be curtailed unless it creates a material disruption to the educational process.”


Though the Kansas City Chiefs would go on to win the game, they were dealt a crushing blow in their season-opening game against the defending Super Bowl champion New England Patriots. Eric Berry, the team's best defensive player, tore an achilles while covering Patriots tight end Rob Gronkowski and his season was over. The Chiefs have certainly missed his presence in the defensive backfield, but not as much as one might think. Entering Monday night's game against the Redskins, they're the only remaining undefeated team in the NFL.
Related: 'Monday Night Football' injury news for fantasy owners
The secret to the Chiefs's success has been breakout rookie running back Kareem Hunt, who has rushed for a league-leading 401 yards in three games, and the near-flawless play of quarterback Alex Smith, who had been known mostly as a game manager rather than someone who could light up a box score. Throw in a top-of-the-line defense (even without Berry) and a dominating home-field advantage, and you have what may be the best team in the league, a quarter of the way through the season—that is, if they can take care of business against the Redskins Monday night.
Before the season began, experts didn't think much of the Redskins. They'd be average, maybe, which is about how good they looked after a Week 1 loss to the Eagles and a Week 2 victory over the Rams. Things changed last week, though, when they demolished the undefeated Oakland Raiders, holding the AFC West frontrunner's high-powered offense to a measley 128 yards. Speaking of their defensive might, the Redskins have allowed only 816 yards through three games. In fact, the Redskins so far have allowed only 15 more rushing yards (187) than Kareem Hunt tallied last week against the Chargers alone (172). In other words, something's gotta give.
Both teams are in extremely competitive divisions, so every game is crucial. If the Chiefs win, they will be a game ahead of the 3-1 Broncos in the AFC West, and two games above the 2-2 Raiders. The 2-1 Redskins will need to win to keep pace with the 3-1 Eagles atop the NFC East. If they lose, they'll fall into a tie for second place with the 2-2 Cowboys. Fortunately for the Chiefs, Broncos and Raiders, the 0-4 Chargers don't look like they're going to challenge for a playoff spot. Same goes for the 0-4 Giants in the NFC East. Outside of the cellar dwellers, though, both of these divisions are up for grabs.
So, yeah, it's looking like a good game, but how do you watch it? As always, this week's edition of Monday Night Football will be broadcast on ESPN and live-streamed on the WatchESPN app. Kickoff is at 8:30 p.m. ET, and Sean McDonough, Jon Gruden and Lisa Salters will call the action.


In an NFL season where it seems that anyone really can beat anyone (OK, not the Browns), the Kansas City Chiefs stand alone in front of the pack.
The Atlanta Falcons’ loss to the Buffalo Bills at Mercedes-Benz Stadium on Sunday left Andy Reid’s Chiefs as the only unbeaten team left in the league, at 3-0. With the New England Patriots—whom the Chiefs beat in Foxborough the opening night of the 2017 season (September 8)—struggling at 2-2, the Chiefs have possibly the best chance they will ever get under Reid to take the top seed in the AFC and secure home advantage through the playoffs. Perhaps the Pittsburgh Steelers, who knocked the Chiefs out of the divisional round last season during an ice storm at Arrowhead, now offer the stiffest opposition in the AFC.
Once derided in the mold of their quarterback Alex Smith as good but too safe to actually win a Super Bowl, the Chiefs have benefited from several good drafts. In his second year in the league, Tyreek Hill remains probably the NFL’s most dynamic receiver-runner-returner hybrid. Travis Kelce is one of the league’s best tight ends, while the Redskins may have to stack the box to deal with the threat of rookie sensation Kareem Hunt. Hunt is averaging 8.5 yards per carry, numbers that demand respect and could open up room in the passing game for Smith, Kelce and Hill.
The Chiefs will definitely be without outside linebacker and premier pass-rusher Dee Ford and center Mich Morse. Ford and offensive tackle Eric Fisher both have back injuries, according to the  Kansas City Star, though Fisher could play on Monday.
The Redskins, currently at 2-1, can take advantage of the NFC East's logjam after the Cowboys lost at home to the Los Angeles Chargers on Sunday. The Giants are already out of contention, at 0-4, but the Redskins need a win to keep pace with the Philadelphia Eagles. The NFC East looks almost as tricky to work out as the NFC North—such is the lack of a dominant, consistent team.
The Redskins have concerns on offense before Monday night’s game at Arrowhead. The latest injury report lists wide receiver Jamison Crowder as questionable with a hamstring problem. Tight end Jordan Reed was limited in practice on Saturday with what the Redskins  describe as a “rib/sternum” injury. Rob Kelley has a rib injury and is also questionable, but Jay Gruden can lean on Chris Thompson to provide the Redskins’ running game. Thompson is averaging 8.5 yards per carry after three games.


A season of baseball—spring training, epic road trips, homestands, injuries, tears, smiles, 400-foot homers and too many pop-ups to count or remember, of 162 games—comes down to one night in the Bronx between the New York Yankees and the Minnesota Twins.
The Yankees, the “Baby Bombers,” are probably ahead of schedule in reaching the playoffs this year. Few expected Aaron Judge or Gary Sanchez to be quite this good this soon in their careers. Judge has powered the offense in his first full season and led the American League with 52 home runs—and strikeouts. Sanchez hammered 33, helping the Yankees heat up again at the end of the season following a sticky patch in the early summer. Joe Girardi got another baby back in Greg Bird for the closing stretch of the regular season, while General Manager Brian Cashman added depth to the pitching before the trade deadline as it became clear that Girardi’s team was in the playoff race. David Robertson, acquired in midseason from the Chicago White Sox, has a 1.03 ERA through 30 games; Tommy Kahnle, another player added by Cashman this year, has also impressed.
Girardi has already confirmed that his ace, Luis Severino, will be starting on Tuesday at Yankee Stadium. But with the American League Division Series against the Cleveland Indians starting at Progressive Park on October 5, how deep Severino pitches into the game is a matter of conjecture.  ESPN 1500 noted last week that the depth of the Yankees bullpen means Girardi could potentially pull Severino after three innings and rely on his relievers the rest of the way, to save his starting pitcher for the Indians.
All that presupposes, of course, that the Yankees jump out to a lead early. The Twins, who finished the regular season with 85 wins and a stroll of a victory against the Detroit Tigers on Sunday, have the more experienced starting pitcher in Ervin Santana. And while they have an infamously terrible record against the Yankees over the past 15 seasons, the Twins have young slugging power of their own in Miguel Sano. It was a veteran who led the team in home runs, though, as 30-year-old Brian Dozier hit 34. Dozier also led the Twins in RBIs with 93.
You can watch the Yankees and Twins from 8 p.m. E.S.T. via  ESPN and ESPN Deportes. Those streaming the game can use the  Watch ESPN service.


The NFL in 2017 is really, really odd.
Not in a stylish, avant-garde, fashionable kind of way, though: The league this year is wild, messy, scruffy and unkempt. There’s a lot of very poor football and a glut of very average teams. And that is making it tremendous fun to watch.
Take Week 4, for example. The Los Angeles Rams at best were expected to show flashes of promise this season under rookie head coach Sean McVay, but they went into AT&T Stadium on Sunday, withstood a first-half onslaught from Dak Prescott and the Cowboys, and then munched the clock—and the Dallas defense—led by Todd Gurley and the surprisingly effective Jared Goff. The Rams are now 3-1, a game ahead of the Seattle Seahawks in the NFC West.
So far, so odd, and the strangeness kept coming. The Buffalo Bills somehow pulled out a road win in Atlanta to end the Falcons’ undefeated streak. The Bills got just enough offense from Tyrod Taylor and a huge defensive effort to shut down Matt Ryan. They too sit at a surprising 3-1, and lead the AFC East by a game.
Oh, and the Patriots lost for the second time this season—in Foxborough. Cam Newton and the Carolina Panthers jump-started a hitherto sluggish offense, exploiting what is now the NFL’s worst defense through four weeks. Bill Belichick’s team conceded 42 points on Week 1 to the Kansas City Chiefs, 20 points to the Saints, 33 to the Texans and now 33 to the Panthers.  NFL.com, in a fairly brutal takedown, pointed to a chronic lack of pass-rush and confusion in the secondary. Arguably as important, the same article noted, is the pressure the failing defense and lack of receiving threats is putting on Tom Brady. His brilliance got the Patriots out of trouble against the Texans last week, but he cannot be asked to pull off fourth-quarter miracles every game. Brady was hit seven times and sacked three more, which is going to happen when you have no rushing attack to speak of. Brady is 40, and the Patriots can’t afford to have him hit this much.
All of this early-season oddness has given a psychedelic look to the AFC East standings. There are the Bills at the top, followed by the New York Jets and then the Patriots. Weirdness of weirdness, the Jets haven’t been the 1-15 team even sage people were predicting. At least the Browns look set to be as bad as, if not a bit worse than, everyone thought.
It might not be fun to watch, exactly—the Jaguars-Jets overtime game was best viewed through fingers and with frequent breaks for fresh air. But it has been fun so far, and that’s not something you can always say about the NFL.


In hindsight, the first-ever NFL game at Wembley may have been a warning of things to come.
On October 28, 2007, rain fell in great sheets over Wembley Stadium. Eli Manning and Cleo Lemon—a pub-quiz answer if ever there were one—combined for 168 total passing yards as the New York Giants beat the Miami Dolphins 13-10.
It was ugly. And while London’s enthusiasm for the NFL hasn’t waned over the subsequent decade, the games the U.K.’s capital has hosted—or been subjected to—have not increased in prettiness.
Sunday’s fixture between the New Orleans Saints and the Dolphins at Wembley fit the pattern. The Dolphins mustered zero points, Jay Cutler threw a red-zone interception and got sacked, lots. Jay Ajayi, the London-born running back, was forgotten after a promising first half as the Dolphins fell further and further behind. The Saints defense, with all its holes and rookies in the secondary, looked like the 1985 Chicago Bears. The great Drew Brees only had to be adequate.
“New Orleans Saints beat Miami Dolphins in Wembley stinker” was British newspaper  The Guardian’s headline on Sunday evening in a report of the game, describing it as “error-riddled” and “penalty-strewn.” “There rightly remains a healthy degree of scepticism about whether a full-time London NFL team is viable,” Sean Ingle wrote, before continuing pithily: “But perhaps this was another small step forward in realizing the ambitions of the sport’s power brokers. If people tolerate this, perhaps a franchise will be next.”
It isn’t entirely fair to say that the International Series has never seen a good game. In October 2014 Matthew Stafford did a Matthew Stafford and dug the Detroit Lions out of a hole against the Atlanta Falcons, the game eventually finishing 22-21 to the Lions after a fierce comeback. The Redskins-Bengals tie last year was exciting, and amusing for the result alone (it ended 27-27 to the delight of London fans.) The novelty factor has provided more and better memories, though, than the games themselves.
The NFL is in something of a bind, of course. The teams that really want to come over—with the aim of eventually establishing a London-based franchise—would like to relocate because they are struggling in the U.S., as in the case of the Jacksonville Jaguars. And they are struggling, at least in part, because they are not very good. The NFL used to send over matchups like the Steelers against the Vikings or the Broncos against the 49ers. But where is the logic in reducing your television audience for big-market teams when you could be promoting a luckless, unhappy franchise to a new audience?
There’s a serious question here for the NFL. While the London games continue to sell out on the experience of going to an NFL fixture, the league need not worry. But will London put up with games like the Saints’ win over the Dolphins every week? While Mexico only gets one game this year, that game is the Patriots against the Raiders. Twickenham, the home of English rugby, has the delights of the Cardinals against the Rams and Vikings against the Browns to come. The choice of teams isn’t the only factor to consider, of course. There’s also the travel element, and in the Dolphins’ case this year the stress caused by Hurricane Irma. London has been a boon for the NFL and will likely be for many years to come. But it won’t put up with the novelty of terrible football forever.


With three weeks remaining until the start of the new NBA season, there is just one question on the lips of Knicks fans: Is there a plan in place to cope without Carmelo Anthony?
But, according to point guard Ramon Sessions, the Knicks have a player in their ranks who has the qualities and potential to succeed  Anthony, who traded to  Oklahoma Thunder. Knicks got Enes Kanter and Doug McDermott for Anthony, plus a second-round pick in the 2018 draft, but Sessions’s praise was for a youngster in the ranks.
The veteran has been assigned to work as a mentor with Frank Ntilikina, a 19-year-old point guard from Belgium, and he believes the Knicks could have a superstar of the future, comparing him to  Kyrie Irving.
"I played with Kyrie when he was young. He’s got a lot of Kyrie tendencies," Sessions said. "Not the most athletic guy but can handle the ball in tight spots. It’s still early on, but he definitely gives me that Kyrie feel when Kyrie was a rookie."
When told about Sessions's comments, Ntilikina was flattered by the praise. “Kyrie is Kyrie,’’ Ntilikina told the New York Post. “That’s something. He’s an All-Star, has done crazy things. Hearing that is a blessing. Ramon is here for me. Giving me a lot of advice. I’m learning a lot from him.”
Related: Steph Curry slams “terrible” ‘Sports Illustrated’ cover for forgetting Colin Kaepernick
Knicks players at Madison Square Garden, New York, March 29.   Elsa/Getty
Head coach Jeff Hornacek has also been impressed by the work of the young Belgian, and says he is gradually becoming more and more confident, and imposing himself on the group.
“I think he’s playing with more confidence every day,’’ Hornacek said. “In the beginning, he was probably more tentative which is understandable—19-year-old kid coming across and playing with these guys that he’s probably seen on TV and now he’s in the middle of it. But now he’s just one of the guys out there playing and he looks good.’’
Irving, meanwhile, is preparing for the start of a new season but with a different team. After the sensational trade of the summer to the Boston Celtics, with Isaiah Thomas going the other way, Irving will begin the campaign by playing his former team, the Cleveland Cavaliers on October 18.


A week after the Rams and 49ers shocked Thursday night viewers by combining for 80 points, Week 4 brings a Thursday Night Football matchup that is actually pretty good on paper...which of course means the game is likely to be boring.
Related: Can the Giants return to form and do the Panthers have a chance?
The Packers needed overtime to beat the lowly Bengals in Week 3, but Aaron Rodgers and company have been one of the most exciting teams this season, and at 2-1 are tied with the Lions and Vikings atop the NFC Central. A game behind them at 1-2 are the Bears, a team many predicted would be one of the worst in the league. This hasn't been the case. Though the Buccaneers blew them out in Week 2, they nearly beat the Falcons, who appear to be the class of the NFC, in the season opener, and last week they took down the Steelers in overtime.
A good game on paper, indeed. So, how do you watch? The game will be broadcast on CBS and the NFL Network at 8:25 p.m. ET. Jim Nantz and Tony Romo will be in the booth. It will be available to stream on Amazon Prime Video, which this season will host 10 Thursday Night Football games and a Christmas Day game. Check out their commercial for the showdown between the Bears and Packers.

Not bad.
Following last week's to-kneel-or-not-to-kneel controversy, it will be interesting to see to what extent player protests continue into Week 4. Thursday night will be our first indication, and the Packers have made it clear that they are not going to let up. On Tuesday, players including Aaron Rodgers urged fans at Lambeau Field to lock arms during the national anthem, as many players, coaches and even owners did last Sunday.
“This is about equality,” Rodgers said Tuesday, according to ESPN's Rob Demovsky. “This is about unity and love and growing together as a society and starting a conversation around something that may be a little bit uncomfortable for people.
“But we’ve got to come together and talk about these things and grow as a community, as a connected group of individuals in our society, and we’re going to continue to show love and unity, and this week we’re going to ask the fans to join in as well and come together and show people that we can be connected and we can grow together.”
The show of solidarity will be a turnoff for many, including country music legend Charlie Daniels, who on Wednesday night tried and failed to boycott Thursday Night Football.

We'll be watching for more from Charlie's Twitter feed tonight.


We are yet to even gain a halfway decent inkling as to how Lonzo Ball will do as a point guard in the NBA—and no, summer league basketball doesn’t count, as impressive as he was at times.
Still, the hype surrounding Ball and the constant buzz around the Los Angeles Lakers means the rookie is being made a part of Dream Teams before he has even started a regular-season game. The latest report comes from  Metro.us, and it should get Lakers fans very excited indeed while remembering that there is almost no chance this actually happens as perfectly as described.
Russell Westbook,  Metro  notes, is approaching the October 16 deadline for signing a “supermax” contract extension with the Oklahoma City Thunder. The 2016-17 regular-season M.V.P. is out of contract with the Thunder in the summer of 2019 but he can test free agency next summer.
As can LeBron James.
Now, the Thunder have bent over backwards to keep Westbrook. They signed Paul George on a rental this past summer and just added Carmelo Anthony at the power-forward position. They look like a contender again in the Western Conference, at least for a season.
But that still may not be enough to keep Westbrook, especially if the rumors and reports turn into reality and James decides to spend the final portion of his career in a city where he has business interests.
In that case, there is a possibility that the Thunder are just incubating the Westbrook-George partnership in a laboratory before both hop across to a bigger, if far more recently dysfunctional, franchise.
While the Lakers have Ball on a rookie contract, they can probably just about find a way to fit three more superstars around the salary cap. It sounds extraordinary to be talking in these terms when Ball could still be a bust, but this may be too tempting a proposition for Magic Johnson to ignore.


The eyes of the nation and the rest of the world may be on the NFL again this weekend to see how players act before kick-off, but there are still games to play.
After the  national anthem is played and the teams are out and on the field,  President Donald Trump will be forgotten. Games are there to be won.
On Thursday night, Chicago travel to Green Bay for the first game of Week 4, and the Packers will be hoping to take the momentum from their overtime win against Cincinnati into this week.
Here,  Newsweek  makes score predictions for every game in  the NFL this weekend. 
Prediction: Bears 13, Packers 31
Prediction: Dolphins 27, Saints 31
Prediction: Falcons 25, Bills 14
Prediction: Browns 20, Bengals 24
Prediction: Cowboys 28, Rams 17
Prediction: Lions 28, Vikings 23
Prediction: Patriots 35, Panthers 13
Prediction: Jaguars 28, Jets 17
Related: Steph Curry slams "terrible" Sports Illustrated cover 
Corey Clement and LeGarrette Blount at Lincoln Financial Field, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, September 24.   Mitchell Leff/Getty
Prediction: Steelers 25, Ravens 21
Prediction: Texans 24, Titans 13
Prediction: Cardinals 35, 49ers 21
Prediction: Chargers 28, Eagles 31
Prediction: Bucs 24, Giants 20
Prediction: Raiders 33, Broncos 21
Prediction: Seahawks 35, Colts 19
Prediction: Chiefs 20, Redskins 17


Once upon a time—even as recently as a year ago—the Chicago Bears visiting the Green Bay Packers would have existed in a bubble as a battle for supremacy in the NFC North (yes, let’s enter a parallel reality for the moment where the Bears are contenders).
In 2017, though, the NFL can no longer stay divorced from the political climate of the country. Colin Kaepernick awoke a protest movement by kneeling during the national anthem last September, transmitting a message about the treatment of black and minority Americans by the police. But it took President Donald Trump’s extraordinary intervention last Friday to light another fire under U.S. professional sport. Trump’s statement to a rally in Alabama that NFL owners should “fire” any player kneeling during the anthem provoked a show of unity across the league at the weekend from players and owners. In London, England, the Baltimore Ravens and Jacksonville Jaguars knelt for the Star Spangled Banner and stood during the rendition of God Save the Queen. NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell called Trump’s words “divisive.”
On Monday night, the Dallas Cowboys knelt briefly before the national anthem, accompanied by owner Jerry Jones, before defeating the Arizona Cardinals at University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale. Jones, who  donated $1 million to Trump’s inauguration, had previously voiced his belief in “respect for the flag.”
And so to Thursday Night Football, and a game that might once have revolved around whether Mitch Trubisky should replace Mike Glennon, or whether Aaron Rodgers can shed some unusually inconsistent early-season form. The Packers released a  statement on Tuesday evening calling on their fans to join in their own gesture at Lambeau Field, by linking arms as the players and coaches intend to do.
“Let’s work together to build a society that is more fair and just,” the statement read. “Join us this Thursday by locking arms with whoever you’re with, stranger or loved one, wherever you are—intertwined and included—in this moment of unification.”
On Sunday before the overtime win over the Cincinnati Bengals, only Martellus Bennett, Lance Kendricks and Kevin King sat on the bench at Lambeau for the anthem while the rest of the team linked arms on the sideline. Bennett is the brother of Michael, the Seattle Seahawks defensive end who has been one of the most prominent faces and voices in the debate.
The Packers’ behavior is an illustration of how Kaepernick’s original message has become diversified—Kendricks told  ESPN that he sat in order to bring awareness to the plight of Puerto Ricans affected by Hurricane Maria. Rodgers, meanwhile, said the Packers’ gesture was about “unity” not protest. "This is about equality," Rodgers  said. "This is about unity and love and growing together as a society and starting a conversation around something that may be a little bit uncomfortable for people. But we've got to come together and talk about these things and grow as a community, as a connected group of individuals in our society, and we're going to continue to show love and unity, and this week we're going to ask the fans to join in as well and come together and show people that we can be connected and we can grow together."
The Bears were involved, indirectly, in one of the most visually arresting moments of last weekend when the entire visiting Pittsburgh Steelers team except left tackle Alejandro Villanueva declined to come out of the locker room for the anthem. The Bears linked arms while the Star-Spangled Banner played.
CBS  will air the anthem before tonight’s game, according to the  Chicago Tribune—the first "Thursday Night Football" game since Trump blundered into the debate and set the NFL, social justice and politics rushing head-on to meet each other. In a superheated political climate, the actual game is an afterthought.


There was a sense of deja-vu on Champions League Matchday Two, at least for the English clubs involved in the competition.
While Manchester United and City strolled to victories, and Tottenham Hotspur and Chelsea won away impressively, Liverpool again dominated but failed to put away limited opposition. Celtic, meanwhile, registered its most impressive European victory in several seasons. Here’s how they, and the Premier league teams, rated.
Even without the injured Paul Pogba (and Marouane Fellaini, who remains important to Jose Mourinho), United ran a steamroller over CSKA Moscow. What should have been a difficult away trip became, thanks to Romelu Lukaku and some horrendous defending from the home side, a stroll to the top of Group A. Basel hammering Benfica in Switzerland means everyone else is now pretty much fighting for second in the group behind United.
Grade: A
Woah, that was impressive. Chelsea marched into the Wanda Metropolitano, not as intimidating yet as the old Vicente Calderon in terms of atmosphere but still a tremendously difficult place to visit, and fully deserved a victory given to them by a last-minute goal from Michy Batshuayi. Antonio Conte’s team created multiple chances against Atletico’s suffocating defense and midfield, while limiting the Spanish side’s best attacking player in Antoine Griezmann to half-chances. If Chelsea takes four points from the double-header against Roma, it should win what looked like a tricky Group C.
Grade: A+
It wasn’t always easy for Spurs in Cyprus but in Harry Kane Mauricio Pochettino has a genuine world-class striker. Kane’s hat-trick means Tottenham is level at the top of Group H with two delicious matchups against Real Madrid and their former player Gareth Bale to come. Borussia Dortmund’s surprising ineptitude means Madrid and Spurs should be fighting it out to win the group.
Grade: A
Once Kevin De Bruyne had opened the scoring with a delicious long-range strike, City had little problem in easing past their Ukrainian opponents. Napoli’s surprising opening-day defeat to Shakhtar means City’s path to winning Group F is simpler than it might have been.
Grade: A
It’s no good creating two games’ worth of goalscoring chances if you can’t put them away. Call it profligacy or bad luck, but games like Tuesday night’s are becoming a recurring theme for Jurgen Klopp in the Premier League and in Europe. Liverpool should still qualify from a weak Group F, along with Sevilla. But what should have been easy progress to the knockout rounds now looks like a struggle.
Grade: B-
Anyone can be beaten handily by Paris Saint-Germain, as Bayern Munich showed on Wednesday night. With a vibrant performance and 3-0 victory in Belgium, Brendan Rodgers’ team put themselves forward as serious challengers to Bayern to claim the runner’s-up spot in Group B. At the very least, Celtic should now progress to the Europa League.
Grade: A


Steph Curry has ripped into the latest Sports Illustrated cover on the unity of sport for not including NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick, according to reports.
Released earlier this week,the magazine features an image of Curry, star of the Golden State Warriors team, arm in arm with LeBron James and Roger Goodell. Warriors coach Steve Kerr also features, along with football players such as Michael Bennett.
All 10 people on the new cover have spoken out against  President Trump in the last week after he urged  NFL owners to fire any players who kneeled down during the anthem. But Curry said there was one crucial absentee: Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who started the idea of taking a knee.
“That was terrible,” Curry said,  according to the  San Francisco Chronicle. “It’s just kind capitalizing on the hoopla and the media and all that nonsense. The real people understand exactly what’s been going on, and who’s really been active and vocal and truly making a difference.
Related:   NBA is Trump’s next big problem, and it’ll be worse than the NFL
“If you don’t have Kaepernick front and center on that, something’s wrong. It’s kind of hard how certain narratives take place, being prisoners of the moment.”

Curry also criticized the idea to have him pictured linking arms with Goodell, as he “had the most on-the-fence comment.” Curry was not the only one to notice the absence of Kapernick.
Related:   Steph Curry could still celebrate Championship in Washington, just not with Trump
“I looked at it and went, ‘Where the hell is Kap?'” Kerr said,  according to  The Athletic. “If the article is about activism in sports, how is Kaepernick not on the cover? I just don’t understand how you can omit the guy who basically began this movement.”
The backlash from the sports world came after Trump hit out at the NFL for kneeling, saying it was “disrespectful to our country and our flag.” Curry, a member of the Warriors Championship winning team this year, was quick to make clear he would not be attending the visit to the White House, a tradition for the NBA champions.
Stephen Curry at Oakland, California's Rakuten Performance Center on September 22.   Ezra Shaw/Getty
“By acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change when it comes to what we tolerate in this country and what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye to,” Curry said, as quoted by  The Washington Post.
Though a rival on the court, James, of the Cleveland Cavaliers, backed Curry both on social media, calling Trump a “bum”, and to reporters on Monday. “Going to [the] White House was a great honor until you showed up!” James  wrote on Twitter.


Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho has sent scouts to watch Roma midfielder Radja Nainggolan and is considering fighting Chelsea to sign him, according to reports.
The Belgian midfielder was the subject of interest for  Chelsea throughout the summer, but the move never materialized and Antonio Conte ended up signing Tiemoue Bakayoko.
Nainggolan remains on the club’s radar for when the transfer window reopens, but the 29-year-old is also now a target for  United and Mourinho, according to  The Sun.
The Manchester United manager, the report says, sent his scouts to go and watch Nainggolan during Roma’s  Champions League tie with Atletico Madrid earlier this month.
But they also had an eye on two players in the red and white of Madrid, with Mourinho a long-term admirer of both  Antoine Griezmann and Saul Niguez.
Related:   Chelsea is favorite to sign unwanted Paris Saint-Germain striker
Griezmann has a buy-out clause of £88 million (about $117 million) and reports suggest United will activate it next summer, while midfielder Niguez is also expected to cost around £85 million.
Both players featured in the Champions League last night, in a 2-1 defeat to Conte’s Chelsea at the Wanda Metropolitano, the first time Atletico has been beaten at home by English opposition.
Griezmann opened the scoring from the penalty spot before Alvaro Morata, Chelsea's shiny new striker from Real Madrid, equalized and Michy Batshuayi came off the bench to grab the winner in injury time.
Jose Mourinho, left, and Antonio Conte at Old Trafford, Manchester, April 16.   Shaun Botterill/Getty
Mourinho would not have been watching the game, however, as his United team was in Russia in its own group stage tie against CSKA Moscow.
Romelu Lukaku grabbed two, Anthony Martial scored from the spot, and Henrikh Mkhitaryan put United four ahead before the hour mark. United and Chelsea both put in performances into impress Nainggolan.


The director of the Michigan State Police has apologized for calling NFL players who kneel in protest of police brutality "anti-American degenerates"—but critics are still calling for her resignation, citing the agency's long history of racial discrimination.
Col. Kriste Kibbey Etue posted the controversial meme on her personal Facebook account, which appears to have been deleted, saying athletes who are kneeling during the national anthem in protest are "millionaire ingrates who hate America and disrespect our armed forces and veterans."
"We stand with the Heroes, not a bunch of rich, entitled, arrogant, ungrateful, anti-American degenerates," she posted. 
Etue later apologized, calling the post "a mistake," but critics called for her resignation from a department already facing criticism after an officer killed a black teen under questionable circumstances in August. 
"Etue's words simply reflect the continued racist actions of the Michigan State Police, both in how they treat our citizens and in how their hiring demographics fail to even approach equity," Kenneth Reed, a spokesman for the Detroit Coalition Against Police Brutality, told the Detroit Free Press. 
The department has been sued by troopers 52 times since 1993, with the majority of the suits filed by black officers charging racial discrimination, the Detroit Free Press reported.
Meanwhile, President Donald Trump continued his tirade against the NFL on Twitter on Wednesday, starting his morning with a post claiming that the Dallas Cowboys, who all kneeled at their game on Monday night, will in future "stand for Country." 
The NFL protest, started by Colin Kaepernick after a number of high-profile police shootings of black men, gained more attention last week after a fiery speech by Trump where he called on the NFL to fire athletes who take a knee during the anthem. 
“Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out! He’s fired. He’s fired!'" Trump said. 


Chelsea is favorite to sign Paris Saint-Germain striker Edinson Cavani after the striker’s public fallout with teammates earlier this month, according to reports.
Cavani, the Uruguayan forward, reportedly fell out with teammates in the French capital following a dispute with the team’s new £198 million (about $265 million) signing Neymar.
French newspaper  L’Equipe  claimed Neymar and Cavani had to be kept apart following a 2-0 French league win over Lyon earlier this month in which Neymar took a penalty over Cavani.
It is increasingly expected that Cavani will be on his way out, with far too much invested in Neymar to go against the Brazilian. And, according to  The Sun, it is Premier League club Chelsea that leads the race for him.
Cavani, the report says, rejected an offer of £880,000 from the club to step aside and allow Neymar to take over penalty duties; he refused.
Related:  Jose Mourinho hasn’t given up on £88 million target just yet
Antonio Conte at Wanda Metropolitano stadium, Madrid, Spain, September 26.   Gonzalo Arroyo Moreno/Getty
PSG is also under pressure to sell players after spending such a massive amount of money this summer, breaking the transfer world record to take Neymar from Barcelona plus the addition of Kylian Mbappe.
Mbappe, the French teenager, is currently on loan with Unai Emery’s team but an agreement is in place to make the move permanent, which will cost PSG up to £163 million.
The idea of Cavani joining Antonio Conte’s team in west London is an ominous prospect for the rest of the Premier League. Cavani has scored 56 goals in his last 57 games for PSG, and with Alvaro Morata easing into life at Chelsea, scoring six in his first six games for the club, Conte would have a lethal strike force at his disposal.
For now, Morata remains the new main man at Chelsea. But on Wednesday night he and the rest of the squad will come face-to-face with his predecessor. Chelsea takes on Atletico Madrid at the Wanda Metropolitano in the group stage of the Champions League, with Costa expected to be in attendance.


The Golden State Warriors may still, it seems, celebrate their NBA championship in Washington with politicians—just not President Donald Trump.
In a week in which  Trump’s relationship with sports has nosedived, the Democrats have tried to take advantage by inviting Steve Kerr and the Warriors to D.C. for a visit. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi posted an image to Twitter of a letter she had sent to Kerr and his team, tagging  Stephen Curry and the Warriors. “The offer still stands,”  she wrote.
The letter, from June, invites Golden State to celebrate the championship at the United States Capitol. “We look forward to honoring your championship in the heart of our democracy,” Pelosi wrote.
.@StephenCurry30 &amp; @warriors – the offer still stands. #DubNation pic.twitter.com/qfi2DEsKLk

It comes just days after Curry publicly said he wouldn’t be attending the White House to visit  Trump, who then withdrew the offer.
“You can talk about all the different personalities that have said things and done things—from Kaepernick to what happened with Michael Bennett to all sorts of examples of what has gone on in our country that has led to change,”  Curry said. “We’re all trying to do what we can using our platforms, using our opportunities to shed light on that. That’s kind of where I stand on that. I don’t think us not going to the White House will miraculously make everything better, but this is my opportunity to voice that.”
Related: Trump drags Usain Bolt into anthem debate with NFL
Justin Houston at the StubHub Center in Carson, California, on September 24.   Sean M. Haffey/Getty
The president tweeted the following day to say that the invitation was withdrawn. He wrote: “Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team. Stephen Curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!”
Championship teams visiting the president at the White House has become something of a tradition, but Kerr says that has become increasingly tricky to continue. “The president made it really, really difficult for us to honor that institution,” he told The New York Times.
Trump’s warring with the NBA wasn’t even the main subject of conversation in sports this week following the president’s message to NFL owners that they should fire players who take a knee during the national anthem.
“Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now! Out! He's fired. He's fired'?” Trump said at an Alabama rally Friday.
But there was no firing, just backfiring for Trump. And the image of the Curry, Kerr and the Warriors celebrating with the Democrats will not please him any more.


John Kasich has the answers to more than just Ohio’s politics. The state governor says he even knows how the Oklahoma City Thunder can win the NBA Championship: playing with two balls.
Kasich, governor of Ohio since 2010 and a fervent basketball fan, followed the summer’s trades and signings with intrigue, especially  Carmelo Anthony’s move from New York Knicks to the Thunder.
Asked by  TMZ in the streets of New York what he thought about the trade on Monday, Kasich gave his advice to  Anthony’s new coach Billy Donovan.
“I don’t know,” Kasich said. “They’re gonna need two basketballs when Oklahoma City plays, one for him and one for his teammates.”
Seems Kasich believes the addition of the 33-year-old forward is not going to transform  the Thunder into Championship contenders overnight, even with Russell Westbrook and Paul George in the team.
Related:   Trump drags Usain Bolt into national anthem debate with NFL
Carmelo Anthony at Life Time Athletic At Sky, New York City, New York, September 11.   Shareif Ziyadat/Getty
Like many Cavs fans, it took a while for Kasich to decide what he made of the departure of Kyrie Irving to Boston, with Isaiah Thomas arriving in Cleveland in the trade of the summer.
“At first, I didn’t know what to think,” Kasich added, “because Kyrie is so great, but now, as people say, Thomas is healthy.
“A couple of the other pics they got, the guy plays good defense. So on balance it's a draw or maybe slightly Cleveland but I'm not sure.”
The  big debate that has gripped the nation as well as the sports world over the past week and beyond is players taking knees in the NFL. On Friday, President Trump urged the heads of football teams to fire any player who chose to kneel during the national anthem.
“Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired. He's fired',” Trump said at an Alabama rally Friday. But the reaction was not what he’d hoped for.
Prior to the  NFL games Sunday, many players protested—some took a knee, others linked arms and some remained in the locker room—during the national anthem.
Asked what he made of the debate, Kasich simply said that “everybody has a right to protest in America.”


No-one, it seems, is safe from being dragged into the national anthem debate, not even Jamaican sprinters. On Tuesday night, President Trump chose eight-time Olympic gold medalist Usain Bolt to put on a pedestal for respecting the anthem.
Trump posted a video of Bolt from the 2012 Games in London, during an interview with a television crew. Bolt asks the interviewer to pause as the American national anthem sounded over the loudspeaker in the stadium.
Five years on,  Trump uploaded the footage to his Twitter account and wrote: “Even Usain Bolt from Jamaica, one of the greatest runners and athletes of all time, showed RESPECT for our National Anthem!”  
Even Usain Bolt from Jamaica, one of the greatest runners and athletes of all time, showed RESPECT for our National Anthem! ____ pic.twitter.com/zkenuAP9RS
Trump's latest tweet on the matter comes six days after he urged the heads of football teams to fire any player who chose to kneel during the national anthem. 

Related:   The NBA is Trump’s next big problem, and it’ll be worse than the NFL
“Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired. He's fired',” Trump said at an Alabama rally Friday. But the reaction was not what he’d hoped for.
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick was the first to kneel during the anthem during preseason last year, protesting about the social inequality and treatment of blacks across the country.
Donald Trump at the White House, Washington, DC., September 26.   Alex Wong/Getty
Prior to the  NFL games Sunday, many players protested—some took a knee, others linked arms and some remained in the locker room—during the national anthem. Players came out after the games and commented on the act and defying  the president’s words, including Patriots’ quarterback  Tom Brady.
“Yeah, I certainly disagree with what [Trump] said. I thought it was just divisive,” the 40-year-old said on WEEI’s  Kirk & Callahan. Like I said, I just want to support my teammates. I am never one to say, 'Oh, that is wrong, that is right.' I do believe in what I believe in. I believe in bringing people together, and respect and love and trust. Those are the values that my parents instilled in me.”
Trump is refusing to back down from the debate, however, and on Tuesday urged football to create a ban on kneeling. “The NFL has all sorts of rules and regulations,” he tweeted. “The only way out for them is to set a rule that you can’t kneel during our National Anthem!”
Bolt is yet to comment on the post, but the debate over the national anthem seems far from over—especially if Trump has anything to do about it.


Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool is in the Russian capital tonight to take on Spartak Moscow in the second game of Group E in the Champions League.
Klopp’s team drew with Sevilla in the opening match of  the competition and has now made the 2,000-mile journey to Moscow.
The game kicks off at 2:45 p.m. Eastern Time and will be shown on Fox Sports 2 on television. It will also be live-streamed on fuboTV which you can find  here. For U.K. viewers, coverage begins on BT Sport 2 at 6:45 p.m. BST with kick-off an hour later.
One of the main issues for  Klopp ahead of the game has been how to fit all his attacking players into his team, with Philippe Coutinho available once again.
The Brazilian midfielder, who was reportedly the subject of a £140 million offer (about $188 million) from Barcelona last month, returned to action for  Liverpool’s 1-1 draw with Burnley 10 days ago. He fitted in, conveniently, for Sadio Mane, who was suspended after being dismissed for a high boot in the 5-0 defeat to Manchester City, and showed his quality against Leicester Sunday.
Related:   How Will Jurgen Klopp Fit Philippe Coutinho into His Liverpool Attack?
Jurgen Klopp at Melwood Training Ground, Liverpool, England, September 25.   John Powell/Liverpool FC via Getty
But Mane is available for European action, along with new signing Mohamed Salah, who has eased into life at Anfield with five goals, and Roberto Firmino. So Klopp has all Liverpool’s weapons at his disposal.
The German prefers a front-three of attacking players with two deeper midfielders behind. Should he remain with this formation, one of the four will have to watch from the sidelines Tuesday night.
Alternatively, Klopp could go all-out attack, play the quartet together and look to overpower Spartak with talent; Firmino upfront, Mane on the left and Salah on the right, with Coutinho picking up the No. 10 role in behind.
The issue for Klopp of late has not been his team’s attacking potential, though. Defensive woes have haunted the Liverpool manager, cost his team crucial points and irritated him in press conferences. So he may be unwilling to leave his defense even more exposed by adding to the attack.
Liverpool, meanwhile, has no new injury concerns. Klopp is still without Adam Lallana (thigh) and defender Nathaniel Clyne (hamstring).


Donald Trump tweeted an amendment to his usual statements about falling NFL television ratings early on Tuesday morning, noting the trend of pregame show audiences rising in line with the conjecture over whether, and which, players will kneel during the national anthem.
“Ratings for NFL football are way down except before game starts, when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!” Trump  wrote.
There was certainly huge interest in the preamble to Monday Night Football, when the Dallas Cowboys travelled to the Arizona Cardinals. In the end, Jerry Jones and the Cowboys knelt briefly before the anthem before standing to acknowledge it, linking arms with the Cardinals at the same time in what  ESPN called a “unity statement.” Trump tweeted on Sunday that standing arm-in-arm during the anthem was acceptable. “Great solidarity for our National Anthem and for our Country. Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable. Bad ratings!" He wrote.
As it turned out, television ratings for the Cowboys’ 28-17 victory over the Cardinals rose 63 percent on the same date last year, when the Atlanta Falcons visited the New Orleans Saints in the Mercedes-Benz Superdome.  ESPN reported on Tuesday that Nielsen measured a 9.3 overnight rating for the game, peaking at 10.3 between 9:15 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. ET.
There are a couple of major reasons for this that have little to do with interest in, or displeasure at, the current player protests. The Saints-Falcons game took place on the same night as the first Presidential debate between Trump and Hillary Clinton at Hofstra University in New York. The Cowboys, meanwhile, are a consistent ratings monster capable of bucking trends and forces that would negatively affect smaller markets and teams.
Trump, for his part, seemed satisfied with the way the Cowboys had conducted their protest. After praising the “great anger” of the University of Phoenix crowd for booing while the Cowboys knelt, Trump  tweeted, “But while Dallas dropped to its knees as a team, they all stood up for our National Anthem. Big progress being made—we all love our country!”
While ratings fluctuated between the major television networks on Sunday—CBS saw an improvement for the Packers-Bengals game while Fox and NBC experienced dips—the popularity and notoriety of the Cowboys ensured Monday’s rating held up for ESPN. Next weekend’s games will shed a little more light on if, and how, the protests are going to affect NFL television audiences in the long-term.


It is seven years since the Lakers last won the Championship, beating the Boston Celtics 4-3 in the NBA Finals. Seven long years.
Among  the Lakers roster that day was Luke Walton, also part of  the Lakers team that won the championship the previous year. Now, however, Walton is on the sidelines, charged with returning the team to those heady days—but he insists he knows how to do it.
As  the Lakers prepare to begin a new campaign, starting with a training camp this week, Walton says there will be one main focus for the team in the days to come.
“Until we fix the defense it’s gonna be tough to win ballgames, which is ultimately what we want to do,” Walton told  SportsNet.
“First practice: All defense. We are not doing a single offensive drill in our first practice. Everything to us going into training camp is getting better on defense.”
Related:   The Lakers Are Pumped About A Rookie, And it’s Not Lonzo Ball
Last season, the Lakers had the worst points differential of the whole league, with minus 6.9 points per game. But the team’s offense was far from outstanding given that they were only 17th in the league for scoring.
New additions to the roster will already help Walton and  the Lakers. Brook Lopez, Kentavious Caldwell-Pope, and Andrew Bogut will all help protect the team defensively, while Josh Hart, a rookie, adds more depth for Walton.
Luke Walton, left, and Magic Johnson at the Thomas & Mack Center, Las Vegas, Nevada, on July 16.   Ethan Miller/Getty
Lakers shouldn’t have any problems in attack, however, especially after getting  Lonzo Ball in the draft earlier this summer, who then excelled in the summer league. His biggest admirer in L.A. seems to be the team’s president Magic Johnson.
Johnson has been effusive about the 19-year-old all summer, and the feeling has been mutual. “He’s the best point guard to ever play,” Ball said Monday, so it will please him to hear that Johnson believes that he possesses strong comparisons to him.
Related:   Lonzo Ball, Lakers Big Hope, Seems to Think He’ll Go Down in NBA History
“I told him he's just like me. When I came here, there were a lot of expectations put on my shoulders and put on the Lakers as an organization,” Johnson said, as quoted by  NBC.
“I think now, as I told him, I'm his boss but I'm also his big brother. So, when he comes into my office, I don't want to be his boss. I just want to be his big brother and give him either a pat on the back or give him some information to help him.”
For now, however, Ball and the gang will have to focus on the defensive work if they want to win a championship again.


President Donald Trump, who over the last few days has repeatedly inserted himself into the country's most popular sport, tweeted Tuesday that he wants the NFL to create rules against football players kneeling in protest during the national anthem. He has a pretty good example for such a move in the U.S. Soccer Federation.
"The NFL has all sorts of rules and regulations. The only way out for them is to set a rule that you can't kneel during our National Anthem!" Trump tweeted Tuesday morning. 
The president has slammed players who kneel during the anthem to protest the oppression of black Americans. (It should be noted that the protests, sparked by Colin Kaepernick, have never been aimed at the anthem or the flag, as some have claimed. Rather, they're a peaceful demonstration during a quiet moment when folks are paying attention.) Trump even yelled at a rally that the league should fire any "son of a bitch" who kneeled. 
After much of the league, including owners, coaches and players, banded together last weekend over the issue, it seems unlikely the NFL will create new rules against demonstrations. But U.S. Soccer has already done so.
After the women's national team participated in protests last year, U.S. Soccer in March created a new bylaw that decreed: "All persons representing a Federation national team shall stand respectfully during the playing of national anthems at any event in which the Federation is represented." That's a slight but vastly important difference from the NFL regulation that "encourages" players to stand but does not require it. 
Star player Megan Rapinoe largely inspired the new rule. She had demonstrated in league games, and she sparked backlash after she kneeled before the U.S. team took on Thailand last September. 
“I'm very proud to pull on this shirt and play for this country, and also represent my country in a different way in speaking out for people that are oppressed,” she said during the ESPN broadcast, according to the Los Angeles Times. 

Rapinoe indicated at the time that she had planned to continue her protest. "As of now I plan to keep kneeling," she said, according to the Times. "I'm trying to kind of formulate a better plan and an action step moving forward. But until then, this is how I can help." 
But the bylaw stopped the star in her tracks. After the new rule from U.S. Soccer banning kneeling was adopted, Rapinoe said she would accept the decision. "I will respect the new bylaw the leadership at USSF has put forward," she said in a statement, via Fox Sports. "That said, I believe we should always value the use of our voice and platform to fight for equality of every kind."
It's unclear what the punishment for a player might be, should she or he disobey the rule, but it would reportedly be decided on a case-by-case basis. 


Donald Trump Jr.’s entrance into the argument around NFL player protests against racism provoked by his father last Friday night was at once entirely predictable and curious.
“If only Roger Goodell cared as much about domestic abuse and traumatic brain injury as he does about disrespecting America.” Donald Jr. tweeted on Monday, attacking the NFL Commissioner for a perceived lack of action over players kneeling during the national anthem. The NFL’s game operations manual states the league “may discipline” players who aren’t on the field by the start of the national anthem. That would include every member of the Pittsburgh Steelers apart from Alejandro Villanueva. The Steelers stayed in the locker room during the anthem prior to Sunday’s loss at Soldier Field against the Chicago Bears. The NFL, though, has yet to fine any player involved in the protests.
That Donald Jr. believes Goodell is guilty of double standards is hardly surprising. On Monday he tweeted out two stories, one from the Daily Caller that pointed out the NFL prevented the Dallas Cowboys from wearing police-themed decals, the other from Fox Business referencing the NFL fining players for sporting shoes honoring 9/11 victims. The son has been vociferous in his support for the father’s stance on social media.
So perhaps Donald Jr. was deflecting when he tweeted about “traumatic brain injury,” using concussions as a rhetorical tool to hammer on Goodell’s head. Just before he posted that, Donald Jr. retweeted a post apparently mocking those NFL players suffering from brain damage.
 
President Trump just proved that the folks with the highest rate of brain damage (according to science) think he&#39;s Hitler. #concussions https://t.co/jlRWOflDc9
 

And yet, the post still revealed a level of awareness surrounding concussions that Trump has yet to display. At the same rally in Alabama last Friday where he called on NFL owners to “fire” any player taking a knee during the national anthem, Trump called out football for “ruining” itself by adopting rules designed to limit hits to the head. (Despite what Donald Jr. says, the NFL has made serious attempts under Goodell to protect its players’ brains better). “Today if you hit too hard—15 yards! Throw him out of the game!” Trump said, reported by Sports Illustrated. “They had that last week. I watched for a couple of minutes. Two guys, just really, beautiful tackle. Boom, 15 yards! The referee gets on television—his wife is sitting at home, she’s so proud of him. They’re ruining the game! They’re ruining the game. That’s what they want to do. They want to hit. They want to hit! It is hurting the game.”
Trump’s comments on player safety came the day after the family of Aaron Hernandez, the former New England Patriots tight end, announced he had committed suicide in prison in April while suffering from Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy, the degenerative brain condition found in more than 100 deceased NFL players in a 2017 study conducted by the Boston University researcher Dr. Ann McKee. Shayanna Jenkins, Hernandez’s wife, plans to sue the NFL and the Patriots on behalf of their daughter for alleged negligence regarding Hernandez’s brain injuries.
Trump’s views on football and brain injury are consistent. At a campaign rally in Lakeland, Florida, in October 2016 the future president used the example of someone fainting in the crowd to pour scorn on the seriousness of concussion. “The woman was out cold and now she’s coming back,” Trump said, as reported by Sports Illustrated. “See? We don’t go by these new, and very much softer, NFL rules. Concussion. Oh, oh! Got a little ding on the head. No, no, you can’t play for the rest of the season. Our people are tough.”
In defending his father over a row about race, Trump Jr. perhaps inadvertently revealed himself to be at least a little wider awake than the president about concussion and brain injury, one of the NFL’s other, permanently looming crises. In these febrile days of their surreal war with America’s sporting institutions, the Trumps will surely cling to what succor they can.


Manchester United is already considering reigniting its interest in Atletico Madrid forward Antoine Griezmann following the return of Diego Costa to the Spanish capital, according to reports.
Chelsea finally came to an agreement for Costa to resign with Atletico last week, in a deal said to be worth around £57 million (about $76 million). That,  United hopes, will loosen Atletico’s hold on Griezmann who  United had a strong interest in during the summer, according to  ESPN.
Griezmann, the French forward, was expected to move to  United for a club-record fee at the beginning of the transfer window, but news of Atletico’s transfer ban ended that. The La Liga club is not allowed to register new players until January, which saw Griezmann commit his future to the club.
Related:   Being Injured Isn’t Going So Badly For Paul Pogba
Jose Mourinho at St Mary's Stadium, Southampton, England, September 23.   Clive Rose/Getty
Instead,  Jose Mourinho added Romelu Lukaku to his attacking line for £75 million, Nemanja Matic made the switch from Chelsea, and Victor Lindelof bulked up his defense. The United boss wanted a fourth signing, an attacking player who could cut in from the wing, but that will have to wait.
Despite the deal appearing to go dead as Griezmann signed a one-year extension, ESPN  says United is as keen in signing the forward as he is on moving to Old Trafford. Griezmann’s new deal still has his original release clause of 100 million euros (£88m/$118m), which would see him become United’s second most expensive player.
Griezmann will be visiting England in December, but he’ll be in London. Atletico will face Chelsea at Stamford Bridge on December 5, but the two teams play first on Wednesday night at the Wanda Metropolitano in the second Group C Champions League game.
United, meanwhile, is in Russia for its Group A tie with CSKA Moscow. Mourinho’s team tops the group after winning the opening game 3-0, but is without midfield pair Marouane Fellaini and Paul Pogba, who are both injured.


The problem, for Jurgen Klopp this week, is that four doesn’t go into three. It’s a nice problem, one he wanted to have, was determined to have, but now finally faces.
His  Liverpool team is in Russia, preparing to take on Spartak Moscow in the second game of Group E, having drawn the first with Spanish side Sevilla. After recovering from a back injury, and his desire to leave Anfield in the summer, Philippe Coutinho is available for selection in Moscow.
The Brazilian midfielder, who was reportedly the subject of a £140 million offer (about $188 million) from Barcelona last month, returned to action for Liverpool’s 1-1 draw with Burnley 10 days ago. He fitted in, conveniently, for Sadio Mane, who was suspended after being dismissed for a high boot in the 5-0 defeat to Liverpool, and showed his quality against Leicester Sunday.
Jurgen Klopp at Sheraton Sheremetyevo Airport Hotel, Moscow, September 25.   KIRILL KUDRYAVTSEV/AFP/Getty
But Mane is available for European action, along with new signing Mohamed Salah, who has eased into life at Anfield with five goals, and Roberto Firmino. So Klopp has all Liverpool’s weapons at his disposal.
Related:   English Teams’ Injury News Ahead of Champions League Return
The German prefers a front-three of attacking players with two deeper midfielders behind. Should he remain with this formation, one of the four will have to watch from the sidelines Tuesday night.
Alternatively, Klopp could go all out attack, play the quartet together and look to overpower Spartak with talent; Firmino upfront, Mane on the left and Salah on the right, with Coutinho picking up the number 10 role in behind.
The issue for Klopp of late has not been his team’s attacking potential, though. Defensive woes have haunted the Liverpool manager, cost his team crucial points and irritated him in press conferences. So he may be unwilling to leave his defense even more exposed by adding to the attack.
Liverpool, meanwhile, has no new injury concerns. Klopp is still without Adam Lallana (thigh) and defender Nathaniel Clyne (hamstring).


There was a resounding message that took up many column inches on Monday discussing the NFL’s backlash toward the president: Donald Trump took on the NFL but lost, and he got it very wrong. Now, he needs to prepare himself for an even more impassioned opponent.
The  president’s message on Friday urged team owners to back him, saying “wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired. He's fired.'”
They, of course, didn’t. In fact,  Trump underestimated the impact of his words, seeing more and more players take a knee, link arms, or remain in the locker room during the national anthem. Even New England Patriots QB Tom Brady, who is a friend of the president's, came out and condemned his words, as “divisive.”
Trump thought he would have the backing of football, but he surely knows he doesn’t when it comes to the NBA. For a long time, key figures, such as  LeBron James and Steph Curry have spoken out about the president’s influence. The new NBA season is yet to start, but the players are managing to make their views heard in any way.
Related:   Trump Loses Tom Brady Support, His Biggest Ally in The NFL
Donald Trump at Virginia Beach, Virginia, September 6, 2016.   Alex Wong/Getty
Curry made clear last week that he will not be attending the White House, as the championship-winning team usually does, which was followed on Saturday by Trump saying Curry’s invitation was withdrawn.
“By acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change when it comes to what we tolerate in this country and what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye to,” Curry said, as quoted by  The Washington Post. Though a rival on the court, James backed Curry both on social media, calling Trump a “bum”, and to reporters on Monday.
“Going to [the] White House was a great honor until you showed up!” James  wrote on Twitter. Speaking to the media on Monday, the Cavs man said he wouldn’t be surprised if the NBA staged protests when the season begins.
“He doesn’t understand the power that he has for being the leader of this beautiful country,” James said.
“He doesn’t understand how many kids, no matter the race, look up to the President of the United States for guidance, for leadership, for words of encouragement.”
James continued: “It’s powerful what all these athletes are doing. It’s not about disrespect for the flag and military and people who served. It’s about equality and having the option and freedom to speak about things they feel are unjust.”
L.A. Lakers legend  Kobe Bryant was also keen to have his voice heard on the subject over the weekend. On Saturday, he wrote on Twitter: “A #POTUS whose name alone creates division and anger. Whose words inspire dissension and hatred can’t possibly “Make America Great Again”.”
So while Colin Kaepernick remains on the sidelines, without a team in the NFL after being the first player to take a knee during the national anthem, the NBA’s biggest stars are ready to make even greater noise against Trump. Will the president be wise enough not to take on the NBA?


Donald Trump wants everyone to believe that player protests over the national anthem are negatively affecting the NFL’s popularity, hitting the league in its most sensitive area of television ratings. “Great solidarity for our National Anthem and for our Country. Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable. Bad ratings!” Trump tweeted on September 24. As a former—some might say current—television personality, Trump knows that falling ratings lead to a decline in advertising revenue for companies like CBS, NBC and Fox, the NFL’s major national television broadcasters. The controversy  could be bad news for television networks, if vast numbers of viewers decide to tune out all at once.
Trump isn’t right about “bad ratings,” though. Not exactly. In fact, he may be completely wrong in one sense. NFL pregame ratings on CBS and Fox were “significantly higher” on Sunday in comparison with previous weekends, the  Los Angeles Times reported on Monday, when purely football-related topics were discussed.  The NFL Today on CBS scored its highest rating since 2010, the newspaper reported, but viewership of the live games themselves still depended on the quality of the action and the teams involved. CBS benefited from an overtime thriller between the Packers and Cincinnati Bengals, while NBC and Fox showed less appealing games that contributed to an overall dip in viewership compared to the same weekend in 2016. The Redskins-Raiders game on NBC’s Sunday Night Football was down 11 percent on the equivalent game from Week Three in 2016,  Forbes reported.
Still, the dip in audience is hardly “way down” as Trump claimed again on September 24 in a separate tweet, on a weekend when he told a rally in Alabama that NFL owners should consider “firing” any player that kneels for the national anthem in solidarity with black America.  Forbes notes that the rise of internet streaming likely accounts for the NFL’s declining cable ratings, compounded more recently by the spate of hurricanes that have hit the south and east coasts. Trump acknowledged the popularity of the weekend's pregame shows in a tweet posted on Tuesday morning. "Ratings for NFL football are way down except before game starts, when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!" He wrote.It seems likely, and logical, that Trump’s vast social media presence—his personal Twitter account has around 39.3 million followers—is helping to bring a new audience to a league and sport electrified by the president’s very public opposition. Austin Karp, an editor at the respected  SportsBusiness Daily, tweeted on Monday: “Fans wanted to see NFL talking heads react to Trump.”
 
Fans yesterday wanted to see NFL talking heads react to Trump. Fox 11am NFL show, +30%. Fox NFL Sunday, +9%. CBS&#39; The NFL Today, +33%.
 

The president wants the American public to turn off the NFL. But he may have enlivened a whole new audience to the league.


Donald Trump continued his running battle with the NFL Monday night, dragging Chief of Staff John Kelly and CNN into the debate.
“.@CNN is #FakeNews. Just reported COS (John Kelly) was opposed to my stance on NFL players disrespecting FLAG, ANTHEM, COUNTRY. Total lie!” Trump tweeted late Monday.
CNN had claimed in a report Monday evening that Kelly, a former United States Marine, was “not pleased” with the way Trump’s comments erupted into a fight over the weekend between the president and the country’s biggest sports leagues, including the NFL and NBA. At a rally in Alabama Friday, Trump spoke of his desire to see NFL owners “fire” NFL players who kneel during the national anthem, a gesture that has become widespread since former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick first performed it in a regular-season game last September in protest at the mistreatment of minorities in the United States.
Kelly, whose son Robert Michael was killed in combat in Afghanistan in 2010, told CNN Monday night he believed players should stand for the anthem. "I believe every American, when the national anthem is played, should cover their hearts and think about all the men and women who have been maimed and killed," Kelly said.
Trump’s comments—he also attacked Stephen Curry, the Golden State Warriors point guard, on Twitter on Saturday by rescinding his invitation to visit the White House—have drawn widespread condemnation from inside the NFL. Commissioner Roger Goodell called them “divisive,” while the players made their point during Sunday’s games.
The Pittsburgh Steelers, with the exception of Alejandro Villanueva, refused to leave the locker room during the national anthem, while the Baltimore Ravens and Jacksonville Jaguars knelt for the Star Spangled Banner before their game at Wembley Stadium in London. On Monday Night Football, the Dallas Cowboys and owner Jerry Jones knelt briefly but stood for the anthem, with the Cowboys and home-town Arizona Cardinals linking arms during the anthem. Jones had previously voiced his belief in “respect for the American flag.”
The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, spent the first part of her press briefing Monday answering questions on Trump’s row with the NFL. “It’s always appropriate for the president of this country to promote our flag, to promote the National Anthem, and ask people to respect it,” Sanders said in defense of Trump, who himself  claimed Monday that his comments had “nothing to do with race.”
Sanders also, somewhat confusingly, appeared to suggest NFL players should “protest officers on the field” rather than the American flag. “I think if the debate for them is really about police brutality they should protest the officers on the field that are protecting them instead of the American flag,” she said in quotes reported by  Variety, later clarifying, “That if the goal is and the message is police brutality which they have stated, then that doesn’t seem very appropriate that they would protest the American flag.”
Trump was not finished at one tweet, sending out another two minutes later refuting CNN’s story. “General John Kelly totally agrees w/ my stance on NFL players and the fact that they should not be disrespecting our FLAG or GREAT COUNTRY!”
In a more general tweet returning to his theme of the NFL losing popularity over the protests, Trump ended his barrage with: “Tremendous backlash against the NFL and its players for disrespect of our Country.” Trump vs. the National Football League shows no sign of abating any time soon.


Two National Football League teams largely steered clear of a controversy over national anthem protests that have ensnared U.S. President Donald Trump and threatened to damage the game’s popularity, staging a “moment of unity” on Monday instead.
The entire Dallas Cowboys team, including owner Jerry Jones, linked arms and knelt on the playing field for a moment before the game, but then stood respectfully as the “Star-Spangled Banner” was performed by singer Jordin Sparks.
“We all agreed that our players wanted to make a statement about unity and make a statement about equality,” Jones said after his team beat the Arizona Cardinals 28-17.
Jones has previously expressed pride that no players on his team had taken to one knee as the anthem was played and said he was disappointed to see such protests.
Cardinals players joined arms as a giant flag was unfurled on the field but did not kneel.
“Prior to the National Anthem, the @DallasCowboys and @AZCardinals shared a moment of unity on the field,” the NFL said in a Twitter post that was retweeted by the Cowboys.
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick stirred a polarizing national debate in 2016 after refusing to stand during pre-game renditions of the “Star Spangled Banner” to protest against police violence against African-Americans.
Kaepernick was not signed by an NFL team this season but several players have made similar gestures.
Trump kicked off his battle with the largest-grossing U.S. professional sports league at a rally on Friday, when he said any protesting player was a “son of a bitch” who should be “fired.”Those remarks touched off protests by dozens of NFL players, coaches and even some owners at games on Sunday, along with criticism from many corners of the sports world.
“The childishness, the gratuitous fear-mongering and race baiting has become so consistent that we almost expect it, the bar has been lowered so far,” Gregg Popovich, head coach of the San Antonio Spurs basketball team, told reporters.
The head of the U.S. Olympic Committee (USOC) spoke out in support of the protesters at NFL games.
“The athletes you see protesting are protesting because they love their country,” USOC Chief Executive Scott Blackmun told reporters in Park City, Utah.
The International Olympic Committee’s charter prohibits “demonstrations of political, religious or racial propaganda” at Olympic venues.
Not all players joined in Sunday’s protests. Notably, Pittsburgh Steelers lineman Alejandro Villanueva, a U.S. Army veteran, stood alone at the entrance to the stadium for the anthem on Sunday while his teammates waited in the locker room.
Villanueva jerseys and other apparel have outsold those of all other players in the past 24 hours, said a spokesman for online retailer Fanatics, which operates NFLShop.com.
Villanueva’s teammate, Ben Roethlisberger, said on Monday he regretted having missed the anthem.
“I was unable to sleep last night,” Roethlisberger said in a statement. “I personally don’t believe the Anthem is ever the time to make any type of protest.”
Trump kept up his verbal battle with the players on Monday, saying on Twitter that his objection to the protests had nothing to do with race but was “about respect for our Country, Flag and National Anthem. NFL must respect this!”
The president, who has called for a boycott of NFL games, also tweeted: “Tremendous backlash against the NFL and its players for disrespect of our Country.”
The demonstrations have become a thorny issue for the league, which has sought to support players’ rights to protest while trying to keep politics from overshadowing games.
CBS Corp said overall viewership of games it broadcast on Sunday was up 4 percent from last year and 1 percent from last week. NBC, owned by Comcast Corp, said viewership for its Sunday night game was down compared with the week before.
“The protest has nothing to do with respecting the flag. I agree with their message but not doing it during the anthem,” U.S. Air Force veteran Jimmy Phillips, 43, said before Monday’s game in Phoenix.
Nike Inc said it supported athletes who had joined the protests.
“Nike supports athletes and their right to freedom of expression on issues that are of great importance to our society,” Nike said in a statement.
The debate attracted intense attention online, with the hashtag “#TakeAKnee” racking up 2.4 million mentions and “#TakeTheKnee” used 1.2 million times by Monday, while “#BoycottNFL” had 101,500 mentions.
Prominent players continued to speak out against Trump on Monday.
New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, who has said he considers Trump a friend, said on Monday he disagreed with the president’s remarks.
“I thought it was just divisive,” Brady told Boston’s WEEI radio.
At the same time as he berated the NFL, Trump praised car-racing league NASCAR, which saw no protests at its Sunday race in New Hampshire.


Mauricio Pochettino will have to shuffle his Tottenham team Tuesday night as Spurs has been hit with a flurry of injuries before the Champions League tie.
The Argentine’s team is in Cyprus for the second game in Group H, facing Apoel Nicosia while Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool and Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City are also in action.
Pochettino has known he will be without midfielder Dele Alli and central defender Jan Vertonghen due to suspension, but is missing key players due to injury.
Alli’s absence is even more concerning for Pochettino as he will be without Danish playmaker Christian Eriksen due to illness.
Moussa Dembele is unlikely to feature after getting a knock to his ankle during Spurs’ 3-2 win over West Ham at the London Stadium on Sunday. Victor Wanyama remains on the sidelines with a knee injury.
Erik Lamela has not played since October 2016 due to a hip injury, and will not be back for the trip to Cyprus, nor will left-back Danny Rose, who has been out for eight months.
Ahead of Manchester City’s Group F match against Shakhtar Donetsk, Guardiola’s is sweating over the fitness of Benjamin Mendy, the City left-back signed from Monaco in the summer who has eased into the Premier League. The Frenchman limped off during City’s 5-0 win over Crystal Palace at the weekend.
Guardiola knows he will be without club captain Vincent Kompany due to a calf strain. The Belgian center back has not played since August, following a 9-0 win for his country over Gibraltar.
After Ilkay Gundogan’s 10-month return from an anterior cruciate ligament injury in his right knee, the German midfielder suffered a sprain to his left knee in a the Carabao Cup last week. Gundogan is not expected to be available for Tuesday.
Liverpool has no new injury concerns ahead of its game against Spartak Moscow, but Klopp is still without Adam Lallana due to a problem with his thigh and Nathaniel Clyne who has a hamstring issue.
Jurgen Klopp at the Sheraton Airport Hotel, Moscow, Russia, September 25.   Andrew Powell/Liverpool


Donald Trump says he is “so proud” of NASCAR after team owners backed the president by threatening to fire drivers who protest the national anthem.
Trump tweeted his support of the sport on Monday morning following strong words by NASCAR owners including Richard Childress and Hall of Fame driver Richard Petty against the "take a knee" protests in the NFL.
“So proud of NASCAR and its supporters and fans,” Trump wrote on Twitter. “They won’t put up with disrespecting our Country or our Flag - they said it loud and clear!”
Both Childress and Petty were direct with their views, with Petty threatening to fire anyone that didn't stand for the anthem.
“It’ll get you a ride on a Greyhound bus,” Childress said, as quoted by The Guardian. “Anybody that works for me should respect the country we live in. So many people gave their lives for it. This is America.”
Related:   Donald Trump is "condemning footballers more than neo-Nazis"
Petty went even further, saying that “anybody that don’t stand up for the anthem oughta be out of the country. Period. What got ’em where they’re at? The United States,” adding that any protester from Richard Petty Motorsports would be fired.
The threats follow Trump’s call on Friday for owners of  NFL teams to fire any player that takes a knee during the national anthem, which didn’t receive the reaction in the sport that he’d hoped.

On Sunday, there were protests across the league, with more than 20 players kneeling at London’s Wembley stadium on Sunday where the Jacksonville Jaguars were playing the Baltimore Ravens. Jaguars owner Shahid Khan also joined in the protest.
Back home, members of the Titans and the Seahawks opted to stay in the locker rooms during the anthem.
Trump continued to comment on the subject on Twitter. “Many people booed the players who kneeled yesterday (which was a small percentage of total). These are fans who demand respect for our Flag!
“The issue of kneeling has nothing to do with race. It is about respect for our Country, Flag and National Anthem. NFL must respect this!”


Amid the brouhaha caused by his repeated attacks on the NFL and NBA over the weekend, Donald Trump sought support from an unlikely source Sunday evening.
“Please [sic] to inform that the Champion Pittsburgh Penguins of the NHL will be joining me at the White House for Ceremony. Great team!” Trump tweeted Sunday.
The Penguins, led by superstar Canadian center Sidney Crosby, beat the Nashville Predators in the Stanley Cup finals in June by four games to two. The Penguins released a statement Sunday confirming Trump’s tweet, saying they “respect the office of the President.”
“The Pittsburgh Penguins respect the institution of the Office of the President, and the long tradition of championship teams visiting the White House,” the statement read as reported by the  Pittsburgh Gazette. “We attended White House ceremonies after previous championships—touring the historic building and visiting briefly with Presidents George H.W. Bush and Barack Obama—and have accepted an invitation to attend again this year.”
“Any agreement or disagreement with a president's politics, policies or agenda can be expressed in other ways. However, we very much respect the rights of other individuals and groups to express themselves as they see fit.”
Trump began his stormy weekend of feuding with the United States’ professional sports organizations at a rally in Alabama Friday, when he called for NFL owners to “fire” players who kneel during the anthem.
Then Trump called out Stephen Curry, the Golden State Warriors point guard, announcing via Twitter that Curry’s invitation to the White House as part of the Warriors’ NBA Championship-winning team had been rescinded. Curry had already said he would not take up the invitation, while rival NBA star LeBron James called Trump a “bum” for the tweet.
While Trump looks to have turned most of the NFL and NBA against him—Sunday’s NFL games featured widespread gestures of defiance from players in light of his comments—ice hockey and the NHL seem like odd bedfellows for Trump. The Penguins’ roster features 17 players from the United States, par for the course in a sport and league dominated by Canadians and Russians.
A friend in need is a friend indeed, though. Having done his best to alienate football and basketball, Trump could probably do with some support from the neglected half-brother of American sports.


President Trump has condemned NFL players more harshly than he did neo-Nazis, says Kansas City Chiefs quarterback Alex Smith.
Trump urged the owners of football teams to fire any players who took a knee during the national anthem, and for fans to leave the stadium. “Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired. He's fired',” he said.
Smith described the criticism as “alarming” as the president was “targeting the NFL, targeting the quality and character of guys in this league for that very protest.”
The 33-year-old said he felt uncomfortable talking about politics but that Trump’s comments had “upset” him.
“It’s the same guy who couldn’t condemn violent neo-Nazis,” Smith said, as quoted by  The Hill. “And he’s condemning guys taking a knee during the anthem.
“There are bigger issues out there that he probably should be worried about. But for some reason the NFL is on his mind.”
Last month, one person died and 19 others were injured when a car, allegedly driven by a white supremacist, rammed into a crowd of people opposing a far-right rally in Virginia.
At the time Trump condemned “in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry, and violence on many sides,” failing to specifically denounce the far-right.
Smith continued to say that the NFL is “not perfect” but that he is proud of teammates. On Sunday, many players, coaches and owners took part in a protest following Trump’s criticism.
“There are so many good things, great things that go on in this league,” Smith said. “It struck a chord a little bit to see guys get attacked for a peaceful protest.”


Over the years, footballers’ celebrations have become as choreographed as the plays that produce touchdowns. From the Redskins’ fun bunch celebration to the Falcons’ dirty bird, players have continually reacted to TDs in entertaining ways.
But  Odell Beckham Jr. produced one of the more bizarre celebrations after his first score on Sunday, in the Giants 24-27 defeat to the Eagles in Philadelphia. The 24-year-old wide-receiver fell to all fours and crawled along the floor before simulating the act of peeing like a dog.
Inevitably, Beckham was asked after the game for the meaning behind his celebration, but gave little explanation. “I don’t know,”  he said. “I’m in the end zone, I’m a dog, so I acted like a dog.”
Take a look at the celebration:
Odell Beckham pees like a dog. pic.twitter.com/uBZqGNIZ1o

When Beckham hit the end zone for a second time, he raised his first to the sky. This act seemed more in tune with a theme running throughout the NFL this weekend, with teams defying the words of  President Trump.
On Friday,  Trump said NFL owners should fire players who took a knee during the national anthem. "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired. He's fired,'" Trump said.
“You know, some owner is going to do that. And that owner, they'll be the most popular person in this country.”
On Sunday, before the Baltimore Ravens and Jacksonville Jaguars met at Wembley Stadium in London, the players defied the words of Trump and took a knee during the national anthem.
But Beckham wouldn’t reveal whether his fist to the sky was a message to Trump. “Did it look like it [meant something]?”  he said. “Then it might have meant something.”
Odell Beckham Jr. at Lincoln Financial Field, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, September 24.   Abbie Parr/Getty


Donald Trump went into battle with the NFL over the weekend, sparking a backlash and a show of unity from the league’s players and team owners on Sunday night.
After provoking a defiant reaction with his comments at a rally in Alabama on Friday that NFL owners should “fire” any player taking a knee during the national anthem, Trump continued his barrage on Sunday evening.
“Sports fans should never condone players that do not stand proud for their National Anthem or their Country. NFL should change policy!” Trump tweeted during the league’s Sunday night schedule.
Sports fans should never condone players that do not stand proud for their National Anthem or their Country. NFL should change policy!

While the president was likely trying to appeal to his right-wing supporter base with his calls for defense of patriotism, there could be another, less obvious reason for Trump’s decision to take on one of the world’s biggest and most lucrative sports brands.
During  Sky Sports’ broadcast of the Kansas City Chiefs’ victory over the Los Angeles Chargers at StubHub Center Sunday,  Sports Illustrated  and Monday Morning Quarterback writer Peter King appeared via video link to provide analysis of the weekend’s events.
Trump, King suggested, has held a grudge against the NFL since 2014, when he failed in an attempt to buy the Buffalo Bills franchise.
“I’m going to give it [buying the Bills] a heavy shot,” Trump told the  Buffalo News in April 2014. “I would love to do it, and if I can do it I’m keeping it in Buffalo.”
It didn’t happen, of course. While Trump did join the bidding process, part of an eclectic cast including Jon Bon Jovi, the team was eventually sold to Terry Pegula. “I bid a billion dollars, all cash on the table,” Trump told  Sports Illustrated in September 2015. “He [Pegula] bought it for a billion-two, I believe, although they say it was a billion-four. I think he got it for a billion‑two.”
Trump’s bruised ego was evident from his tweets following the Bills’ sale. In October 2014 he wrote:
Even though I refused to pay a ridiculous price for the Buffalo Bills, I would have produced a winner. Now that won’t happen.

While the Bills have mostly been terrible since Pegula took control, they have shown signs of life this season. Under head coach Sean McDermott, the Bills are first in the AFC East ahead of the New England Patriots and took out an impressive victory over the Denver Broncos at Ralph Wilson Stadium on Sunday.
At least Trump could once count on the team he failed to buy being terrible. The Bills’ improvement may just compound a difficult weekend for the president.


The weekend that woke the United States up—and reminded everyone including President Donald Trump that athletes can have a powerful political voice—also dragged a famously reticent megastar into the debate.
Michael Jordan, the current owner of the Charlotte Hornets and de-facto greatest basketball player of all time, told the  Charlotte Observer Sunday night that those athletes taking a knee during the national anthem should not be “demonized or ostracized.”
“One of the fundamental rights this country is founded on was freedom of speech, and we have a long tradition of nonviolent, peaceful protest. Those who exercise the right to peacefully express themselves should not be demonized or ostracized,” Jordan said.
“At a time of increasing divisiveness and hate in this country, we should be looking for ways to work together and support each other and not create more division.
“I support Commissioner Adam Silver, the NBA, its players and all those who wish to exercise their right to free speech.”
Trump provoked one of the more extraordinary weekends in the history of U.S. professional sport when he told a rally in Alabama on Friday that NFL owners should respond to their players’ peaceful protest by saying, “Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, he's fired. He's fired!"
In a separate gesture, Trump then rescinded via Twitter an invitation to the White House for Golden State Warriors point guard Stephen Curry that Curry had already refused. Trump’s behavior appeared to solidify the NFL against him, with players linking arms on the sidelines and the Pittsburgh Steelers refusing to exit the locker room altogether for the anthem.
“Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.Stephen Curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!” Trump tweeted. Curry described the rejection as “surreal” in quotes reported by the  Washington Post.
Jordan’s intervention is significant because, as perhaps the United States’ highest-profile black athlete, he has been known for his reluctance to comment on political issues. A  Slate article published in July 2016 recalls Jordan’s controversial non-endorsement of Harvey Gantt, the black North Carolina Democrat, against Jesse Helms in the 1990 Senate race. Legend has it that Jordan justified his decision to stay out of the election by saying, “Republicans buy sneakers too,” although that has never been verified.
Trump’s comments, though, are dragging even the most politically bashful athletes out of their shells. Jordan’s intervention is another significant moment on an extraordinary long weekend.


President Donald Trump tweeted Sunday about the NFL's television ratings being down—and for the most part that's correct. But he seemed to be somewhat wrong about why the ratings were down.
"NFL attendance and ratings are WAY DOWN. Boring games yes, but many stay away because they love our country. League should back U.S." he tweeted early Sunday as NFL players took knees and locked arms during the national anthem amid the president's repeated recent criticisms of players who do so. 
"Great solidarity for our National Anthem and for our Country. Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable. Bad ratings!" he tweeted later. 
President Donald Trump holds a jersey given to him by New England Patriots head coach Bill Belichick, left, alongside team members during a White House ceremony honoring them as Super Bowl Champions on April 17.   Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images
For the most part, NFL ratings are down. (It's worth noting that even bad NFL ratings are amazing compared with nearly everything else on television, including every other major American sport.)
The website Sports Media Watch posted a helpful graphic of the major games thus far in the NFL season (not counting Sunday's matchups since the ratings were not out yet) and nearly every important game had ratings that were down or relatively flat. This week's Thursday Night Football game, however, was actually up 38 percent. The late game on Fox last week was up 17 percent as well. But most of the other major games were down anywhere from 3 percent to 28 percent. CBS's Sunday games, for instance, were down about 10 percent from last year. The Hollywood Reporter reported that ratings were down 15 percent in Week 2, even after ratings were down 8 percent last year.
Trump tweeted that the NFL being "boring" had some effect on its ratings, and he might have a point there. Some league observers have noted the quality of play has been down, including Kevin Clark at The Ringer in a story titled "How Football Stopped Being Fun." 
But experts have said the ratings in the first week were likely affected by massive hurricanes that the struck the country. It's also very early in the season and—importantly—if ratings are actually down and stay that way, it's likely more a sign of the changing media landscape rather than fans tuning out because of protests. 
"In general people's attention spans have changed," Brian Hughes, a senior vice president at audience tracking firm Magna, told CNN. "There's evidence that people are intensely interested in fewer things and generally interested in more things, and I think that's a function of deluge of content that we are finding ourselves in nowadays."
Sports Illustrated's media reporter Richard Deitsch wrote this week that you "can make some legitimate ratings assessments by Week Four," while Ad Age's Anthony Crupi wrote about NFL ratings on Twitter: "It's early yet. No need to snort a Xanax."
The effect of the protests on ratings, which Trump apparently feels is real, is not 100 percent clear either. Even as the Kaepernick controversy continues (many league observers think he deserves an NFL job), the protests were actually less of a story this season until Trump resurfaced the issue. It wasn't as much a part of the national conversation as it was last year, when the quarterback was in the league.
But some fans certainly have expressed the anthem protests playing a part in tuning out. As reported by ESPN, a J.D. Power poll found that just 12 percent of respondents (who went to at least one major sporting game) described watching fewer NFL games. Of those who said they watched fewer football games, 26 percent described doing so because of anthem protests (note the survey was not open-ended, meaning this option was presented to them). Still, other reasons combined to outweigh the anthem protests, such as domestic violence issues within the league (24 percent), excessive commercials (20 percent), being distracted by the 2016 election (16 percent) and cord-cutting (5 percent). 
This survey has been oft-cited by conservatives like Trump, but as a Washington Post analysis of the poll pointed out that if you actually look at the data it shows some people likely did tune out because of the protests but it's not a "fair conclusion" to say it was the main driver for a ratings decline. 
So Trump was correct that ratings have been down and he's not wrong that some may have tuned out because of protests. But a lot of nuance got lost in the 140 character missives. 



If Thursday night's game between the Rams and 49ers was any indication, we could be in for an action-packed third week of the NFL season. Jared Goff and the Rams held on for a wild 41-39 victory against their division rival, bucking Thursday Night Football's habit of producing sluggish, boring football. Bring on the points!
Related: Tony Romo May Be a Better Analyst Than Quarterback​
In addition to the Broncos trying to move to 3-0, the Giants trying to stave off 0-3 and the Colts and Browns trying to draw viewers who aren't in the immediate families of the players, Week 3 will also bring the first London game of the season, between the 2-0 Ravens and the 1-1 Jaguars. You'll probably have to set an alarm if you want to watch it, though. It begins at 9:30 a.m. on the East Coast and, gulp, 6:30 a.m. out west.
TIME: 9:30 a.m. ETTV: CBS (Baltimore and Jacksonville)STREAM: YahooANNOUNCERS: Andrew Catalon, James Lofto
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: CBSSTREAM: CBS All AccessANNOUNCERS: Spero Dedes, Adam Archuleta
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: CBSSTREAM: CBS All AccessANNOUNCERS: Greg Gumbel, Trent Green, Jamie Erdahl
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: FoxSTREAM: Fox Sports GoANNOUNCERS: Chris Myers, Daryl Johnston, Laura Okmin
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: CBSSTREAM: CBS All AccessANNOUNCERS: Beth Mowins, Jay Feely
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: FoxSTREAM: Fox Sports GoANNOUNCERS: Thom Brennaman, Chris Spielman, Peter Schrager
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: CBSSTREAM: CBS All AccessANNOUNCERS: Ian Eagle, Dan Fouts, Evan Washburn
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: CBSSTREAM: CBS All AccessANNOUNCERS: Tom McCarthy, Steve Tasker, Steve Beuerlein
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: FoxSTREAM: Fox Sports GoANNOUNCERS: Joe Buck, Troy Aikman, Erin Andrews
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: FoxSTREAM: Fox Sports GoANNOUNCERS: Kenny Albert, Ronde Barber, Kristina Pink
TIME: 4:05 p.m. ETTV: FoxSTREAM: Fox Sports GoANNOUNCERS: Kevin Burkhardt, Charles Davis, Pam Oliver
TIME: 4:25 p.m. ETTV: CBSSTREAM: CBS All AccessANNOUNCERS: Jim Nantz, Tony Romo, Tracy Wolfson
TIME: 4:25 p.m. ETTV: CBSSTREAM: CBS All AccessANNOUNCERS: Kevin Harlan, Rich Gannon
TIME: 8:30 p.m. ETTV: NBCSTREAM: NBC Sports Live ExtraANNOUNCERS: Al Michaels, Cris Collinsworth, Michele Tafoya


“The Black Mamba” struck Saturday away from the NBA court. This time on Twitter and against President Donald Trump.
Retired five-time NBA champion Kobe Bryant, who famously nicknamed himself after a black snake, used Trump’s signature phrase “Make America Great Again” against him.
“A #POTUS whose name alone creates division and anger. Whose words inspire dissension and hatred can't possibly ‘Make America Great Again,’” the retired Los Angeles Lakers superstar, destined to be inducted into the Hall of Fame, tweeted.

Initially, the tweet had a typo that Bryant fixed, and a Twitter user pointed out Bryant’s renowned work ethic. That prompted Bryant to tweet back “#mambamentality.”

The comment followed a whirlwind 24 hours for Trump, the NBA and some of its biggest stars. Before Bryant, Golden State Warriors point guard Stephen Curry said he would not visit the White House if the rest of his team did, which prompted Trump to tweet Saturday he rescinded the invitation.
Trump’s disinvite of Curry then resulted in Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James to clap back and call the president a “bum” and state visiting the White House was an honor before the Republican billionaire moved in. Thus far, the tweet has garnered more than 600,000 likes.

Other NBA stars like Houston Rockets point guard Chris Paul also took to Twitter in Curry’s defense to tell Trump he should be focused on other matters while serving as president rather than players refusing to stand for the national anthem or visiting the White House.

Paul also touched on Trump calling NFL players a “son of bitch” for not standing for the anthem, doubting Trump would insult them to “their face.”

Championship teams from professional sports leagues, as well as college teams, traditionally visit Washington and meet with the president after claiming their titles. Most recently, the NFL’s New England Patriots went in April but several players skipped the event, with some citing Trump’s politics. Quarterback Tom Brady did not attend but cited “family matters.”


Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James has faced comparisons to NBA Hall of Fame and Chicago Bulls great Michael Jordan throughout his career, with most claiming Jordan was the greatest of all time, or the GOAT, for winning more championships.
Jordan claimed six championships during his career, twice winning three consecutive titles in a row, while James has hoisted three championship trophies—two with the Miami Heat and one with Cleveland.
That is until James took to Twitter Saturday to call President Donald Trump a “bum” while defending rival Golden State Warrior Stephen Curry, who said Friday he did not want to visit the White House with the rest of his championship squad.

Trump tweeted Saturday that the invitation to the Warriors, who defeated James’ Cavs in June for their second championship in three years, was “rescinded.”
James fired back by stating such visits were an honor until Trump became president. That tweet became the most “liked” James has ever sent out with almost 500,000, while Trump’s call out of Curry garnered more than 100,000 likes.
Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James at a press conference after game five of the 2017 NBA Finals against the Golden State Warriors at Oracle Arena.   USA Today Sports via Reuters/Cary Edmondson
The feud has since taken over social media, with many pointing out how Jordan, who is alleged to have said that Republicans also buy sneakers, has not been more outspoken on political and social issues.
The trends, including the hashtag “#uBum,” all pointed to James coming to Curry’s aide, as well as other current stars like the Houston Rockets’ Chris Paul and James’ teammate JR Smith. 









The users are, of course, speaking figuratively since Jordan and James never shared a court or faced head-to-head.
The reactions appear to be based more on Trump’s widespread unpopularity and attack Friday during a rally in Alabama. Trump also called for NFL owners to fire players who kneel or sit during the national anthem.


Shortly after making controversial comments about the NFL, President Donald Trump moved on to the NBA.
On Saturday morning he tweeted that the Golden State Warriors--the 2017 NBA Champions--are no longer invited to the White House. It’s not clear whether his statement is referring to the entire team or just Warriors guard Stephen Curry.
“Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!” he wrote.
Trump's comments come less than 24 hours after Curry, two-time MVP, said he doesn’t have any intention to go to the White House and hopes his team can make a statement.
“I don’t want to go. . .my beliefs stay the same,” Curry told reporters during a news conference.

“By acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change when it comes to what we tolerate in this country, what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye toward,” Curry said when asked what declining the visit would mean, according to Anthony Slater,  who covers the Warriors for The Athletic.

Many have took to Twitter to support Curry’s decision.




Curry isn’t the first player on the Warriors to speak out against the visit, which is a tradition by U.S champion teams that dates back to at least 1865. In August, his teammate, Kevin Durant, said he would skip it too.
"I don't agree with what he agrees with, so my voice is going to be heard by not doing that," Durant told ESPN. "That's just me personally, but if I know my guys well enough, they'll all agree with me."

Earlier in the year, New England Patriot's Tom Brady skipped the celebratory White House visit, citing 'personal family matters,' but Trump did not comment on Brady's decision.
On Friday night, Trump also criticized NFL players who choose to protest by sitting during the playing of the national anthem. During the political rally in Huntsville, Alabama to campaign for Sen. Luther Strange (R-Ala.), he said: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now. Out. He's fired! He's fired!"
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell released a statement on Saturday morning responding to Trump’s comments.
“The NFL and our players are at our best when we help create a sense of unity in our country and our culture.  There is no better example than the amazing response from our clubs and players to the terrible natural disasters we've experienced over the last month.  Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities.”


Tottenham Hotspur striker Harry Kane scored twice as Tottenham survived a late fight back from West Ham to move into third place in the Premier League.
In-form striker Kane fired the visitors into a two goal lead before half time, marking seven goals in six outings against West Ham and a total of 21 in 29 Premier League outings against all the London clubs combined, the Daily Mail reports.
West Ham United's Italian defender Angelo Ogbonna (L) vies with Tottenham Hotspur's English striker Harry Kane during the English Premier League football match between West Ham United and Tottenham Hotspur at The London Stadium, in east London on September 9, 2017.   Getty
Kane was inches away from a hat-trick for the second time when he hit a 59 minute free-kick against the post but barely a minute passed before midfielder Christian Eriksen claimed a third for Spurs, as he slipped in Serge Aurier's deflected cross.
However, five minutes later West Ham claimed a goal back through Mexico forward Javier Hernandez, who headed in from close range.
Twenty minutes from time and Tottenham were down to ten men, after defender Serge Aurier was shown a second yellow card for a late tackle on forward Andy Carroll.
West Ham pressed forward, and claimed another goal back three minutes from time when Cheikhou Kouyate blasted in a ball from substitute Arthur Masuaku.
Tottenham held on to claim their third consecutive league victory, and consigned West Ham to their fourth league defeat this season.


In 1971, international tennis star Billie Jean King began a secret relationship with Marilyn Barnett. What unfolded between the two women was marked by the repression of that period, and their affair nearly destroyed King's career.
This Friday, audiences will fall in love with King, as played by Emma Stone, in Battle of the Sexes. They'll also watch a fictionalized version of King meeting Barnett (Andrea Risenborough), the hair stylist who eventually became King's personal assistant and girlfriend, though King was married. The true nature of their love affair was much more toxic than the film suggests.
Emma Stone and Steve Carell in "Battle of the Sexes."   Fox Searchlight
Because of the legal limitations on lesbian relationships at the time, Barnett and King’s breakup was particularly damaging to King’s tennis career when it was exposed. The world now celebrates King’s monumental gift to women’s tennis, but the rest of her story is a reminder of how the world treated women just years ago. When Barnett sued King in 1981, for instance, King's counsel was able to use the fact that no legal protections existed for lesbian couples. "Palimony law," which Barnett tried to invoke, had never protected two women's assets after a romantic relationship, and she lost her case against King. The scandal of having been in a relationship with a woman, King says now, kept her on the court, earning money though she had wanted to retire.
Though our society is slightly more inclined to celebrate queer athletes than we were in the 1970s, the law hasn't fully caught up to public opinion. Gay marriage became legal across the United States only in 2015. Before 2017, it was still legal in many states for an employer to terminate someone simply because the person identified as queer; the decision to protect LGBT employees' jobs was made at the federal level only this year, and even then, the decision wasn't unanimous. If King was faced with coming out now, she'd still have to grapple with possible damage to her public image, finances and career.
Related: A guide to the legendary match between Billie Jean King and Bobby Riggs
King is now considered a feminist and a lesbian icon, but she didn't have agency in her own coming-out story; Barnett forcibly outed her when they broke up. Pressure from her family and colleagues meant King had to distance herself from both Barnett and her actual sexuality, telling the press that her affair had been a product of deep loneliness and not a real attraction to women. It took decades for King to reclaim what had been taken from her.
King told The New York Times in a 2006 feature that she discovered her attraction to women in 1968. “The whole world was in tumult, and so was I," King said. "I was so ashamed." She didn’t tell her family or husband about her feelings and was unprepared to cope when she met Barnett.
Barnett and King began their affair in 1971, six months after first meeting, according to The Boston Globe. Also in 1971, King privately had an abortion, which her husband made public without her knowledge in 1972, by giving his wife’s name to Ms. magazine. King appeared in a feature about high-profile, pro-choice women and didn’t know the piece was being published. It was yet another example of King's public image being manipulated by those around her.
Billie Jean King and then-husband Larry King hold a press conference in response to Marilyn Barrett's lawsuit.   Associated Press / Scott Harms
According to one biography of King, she compartmentalized her romantic feelings for Barnett by hiring her as a personal assistant and bringing her on the road, reportedly paying her $600 a month. Barnett and King ended their seven-year relationship in 1979, and King asked Barnett to vacate the Malibu beach house where King had been allowing Barnett to stay. Until 1981, news of their affair and breakup stayed private, until Barnett sued King publicly.
Barnett attempted suicide unsuccessfully in 1981, the same year the trial concluded, and was left paralyzed from the waist down. To date, King has never commented on Barnett's actions.
Emma Stone and "Battle of the Sexes" co-star Andrea Riseborough pose for Out magazine in 2017.   Out Magazine / Kai Z Feng
It took decades for King, whom President Barack Obama gave the National Medal of Freedom in 2009 for her work in women’s advocacy and LGBT initiatives, to publicly admit to being gay, not because of a lack of courage (as Vanity Fair suggested in 2008) but because her livelihood would have been crushed if she had come out during her career. Battle of the Sexes, though it frames the initial attraction between King and Barnett in a lovely way, doesn’t fully engage with the insidious world in which the two women met.
Battle of the Sexes paints King as a triumphant figure in athletics, but it doesn't fully explore how King's queerness was treated widely as perversion for years. While her true story doesn’t negate what she did for women’s tennis in 1973, it exposes how our culture pounded guilt and shame into an American icon for decades. The film does King's legacy a disservice by not taking those around her to task, and it has already been called into question for letting Bobby Riggs off the hook for his performative misogyny, putting the onus instead on promoter Jack Kramer (Bill Pullman).
By telling a famous lesbian's story in soft focus, romanticizing her first connections with women and not taking to task the system that controlled her, Battle of the Sexes ignores some of the most difficult aspects of King's life. One recalls other historical biopics about queer figures in the media, The Imitation Game and The Danish Girl included, which integrate their subject's sexuality and gender identity into their portrayal while communicating the full scope of the distress they felt as they became self-actualized.
There has to be a way to tell stories about queer women without characterizing their sexualities as "alternative" and by forcing society to contend with its historical errors. Though large-scale changes in law to support queer Americans are undoubtedly important and worth celebrating, King's story proves that discrimination against lesbians often happens within legal loopholes. By shedding a light on the way insidious homophobia finds a way into our world, future projects about queer American heroes will enact cultural change of their own. It's not enough to tell an uplifting story; we have to find art in our mistakes.
Battle of the Sexes is in theaters nationwide.


Chelsea forward Pedro will return to Antonio Conte’s squad for the trip to Stoke on Saturday, while Tiémoué Bakayoko is available despite being involved in a car accident on Thursday.
Bakayoko, the midfield summer signing from Monaco, was in a minor car crash on his way home from Chelsea's training complex on Thursday, according to ESPN. Conte confirmed that it would not affect the Frenchman's involvement in Saturday's game at the Bet365 Stadium. 
Conte will also have Pedro, the Spanish forward, available to him, as well as PFA Player of the Year Eden Hazard. "All the players are available apart from [Danny] Drinkwater," the Italian coach said. 
The main talk in west London over the past few days has been about a striker who will not be available to Conte in a Chelsea shirt again this season. Diego Costa completed his acrimonious departure from Stamford Bridge on Thursday, moving to Atlético Madrid in a deal said to be worth £53 million (about $72 million). 
Antonio Conte at Chelsea Training Ground in Cobham, England, on September 11.   Dan Istitene/Getty
Speaking to reporters on his way to Madrid, Costa said he had "no grudge" toward Conte, and the coach echoed the sentiment. 
"We want to thank him for what he did with this club. We wish him all the best for the future," Conte said. "Don't forget, we won together last season. I repeat: For sure we want to thank him for his effort, not only last season but in the period that he played for Chelsea."
Conte had texted Costa to tell the Spaniard that he was not in his plans for the future at Chelsea, with Álvaro Morata signed from Real Madrid in the summer as Costa's replacement. 


We are into Week 3 of the NFL season, and that means the attrition rate is growing and teams' injury lists are lengthening.
Thursday night’s game between the L.A. Rams and the San Francisco 49ers was pretty brutal, with no fewer than five players going down with concussions. Ahead of Sunday’s (and Monday’s) games, here are the key injury details for each team.
Terrance West, who ran for 80 yards on 19 carries in the Ravens’ Week 1 shutout of the Cincinnati Bengals, has a calf injury and did not appear at practice, according to  CBS.
Cornerback Jalen Ramsey was held out of practice Thursday,  CBS reports. But he played through the same ankle injury last week against the Tennessee Titans.
All-pro linebacker Von Miller injured a knee on a low hit against the Texans last week but participated in practice on Thursday. Bennie Fowler, the wide receiver, is in concussion protocol and out of Sunday’s game.
LeSean McCoy, the running back and centerpiece of the Bills’ offense, has been battling wrist and groin problems over the first two weeks of the season but participated fully in practice on Thursday.
Marshon Lattimore, the 11th overall pick in the 2017 NFL draft, collided with teammate Vonn Bell in the defeat to the New England Patriots last Sunday and remains in concussion protocol. Cornerback Sterling Moore should play after recovering from a chest injury as the Saints’ struggling defense attempts to rebound.
Quarterback Cam Newton did not throw in practice on Thursday, according to  USA Today. Newton was sacked against the Bills on Sunday and hurt a knee in the process.
Ben Roethlisberger is listed on the Steelers’ injury report this week but participated fully in practice on Thursday.
Running back Jordan Howard has been limited in practice this week.  NFL.com says he was limited in practice on Wednesday.
Vic Beasley, the NFL’s sacks leader from last season, is likely to miss a month with a hamstring injury, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reports. Beasley was dominant Sunday in the Falcons’ impressive defeat of the Packers.
Ezekiel Ansah, the pro bowl defensive end, was limited in practice on Wednesday with a knee injury, according to The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
Kenny Britt, the wide receiver, is listed on the  Browns’ injury reports this week although he participated fully in practice on Wednesday. Britt has been challenged to produce more by head coach Hue Jackson.
The ailing Colts are still without Andrew Luck, whose shoulder injury again kept him out of practice this week.
The Buccaneers, who look ready to challenge in a crowded NFC South, have no offensive injuries. Gerald McCoy, the brilliant defensive tackle, returned to limited practice on Thursday, according to  CBS. McCoy was seen limping on Wednesday.
Sam Bradford was limited in practice on Thursday, according to  1500ESPN.com. Bradford missed the Vikings’ loss to the Steelers last week with a knee injury.
The Texans’ struggling offense could use a running game. Alfred Blue, who suffered a high-ankle sprain in Houston’s preseason training camp, could return against the Patriots.
The Patriots, already thin at wide receiver, have had Chris Hogan, Rob Gronkowski and Phillip Dorsett listed as “limited in practice” all week.
Running back Jay Ajayi was limited in practice on Wednesday, according to the  Sun-Sentinel. Wide receiver Jarvis Landry is battling a knee injury.
The Jets, who need any scrap of good news they can get, should have Matt Forte available on Sunday. Forte carried nine times for 53 yards against the Raiders.
Odell Beckham Jr., who had four catches for 36 yards on Monday night, has been limited in practice this week but should play against the Eagles, according to  USA Today.
The Eagles’ offense is fine, but they are stretched at safety.  BleedingGreenNation.com reports that Rodney McLeod is not practicing. Nor are his two backups, Corey Graham and Jaylen Watkins, forcing the Eagles to look way down the depth chart in the defensive backfield.
The Seahawks have injuries on both sides of the ball, but those to the malfunctioning offense may be most concerning. Jimmy Graham missed practice on Wednesday with an ankle injury, while Doug Baldwin was absent with a family issue, according to the  Seattle Times.
The Titans’ main offensive concern surrounds DeMarco Murray. Murray injured a hamstring against the Jaguars, but Titans head coach Mike Mularkey is “hopeful” he can start on Sunday, according to  ABC News. If Murray can’t go, the Titans can load more work onto Derrick Henry, who ran impressively last weekend.
The Bengals, who could use a connection that isn’t Andy Dalton throwing to a triple-covered A.J. Green, will likely be without tight end Tyler Eifert, who has  missed two practices with a bad back.
The Packers have Randall Cobb as a doubt for Sunday. Cobb is battling a chest injury, according to CBS, although Aaron Rodgers’s preferred target Jordy Nelson should play.
The 2-0 Chiefs’ main worry is over outside linebacker and premier pass-rusher Justin Houston. Houston missed practice on Thursday with sickness, according to  USA Today. Houston looks like a major factor against the Chargers’ inconsistent offensive line.
Running back Melvin Gordon was limited in practice on Thursday with a knee problem, according to  Yahoo Sports.
Amari Cooper, the standout wide receiver in the Raiders’ high-powered offense, was limited in practice Wednesday but was better Thursday and should play against the Redskins, according to Michael Gehlken of the  Las Vegas Review-Journal.
Jordan Reed, the tight end, is improving from rib and sternum injuries, according to head coach Jay Gruden, who said, “We’ll see how he does tomorrow [Friday].”
The Cowboys are healthy on the offensive side of the ball. Orlando Scandrick, the cornerback, broke his hand against the Giants in the season opener but says he will be ready to go Monday night.
The Cardinals look thin, with linebackers Karlos Dansby and Deone Bucannon listed as limited in practice this week.


When Gordon Hayward was considering whether to make the 2,500-mile move from Utah to Boston, he sought advice from a colleague.
Hayward, who had spent seven years with the Jazz, becoming an all-star last season, was planning his next move. He had a lucrative offer on the table from  the Celtics but wanted to learn more about the team and the city.
The 27-year-old forward turned to  Isaiah Thomas, one of the leading players at the Celtics.  Thomas sold the team to Hayward, and on July 14 Hayward announced he was signing a four-year contract at Boston worth $128 million.
But a little more than a month later, Thomas was gone, traded to  Cleveland as part of a deal that saw  Kyrie Irving join the Celtics. “That was a really strange moment, because I’d really been looking forward to playing with him,”  Hayward wrote on his blog.
Read more:   Kevin ‘Little Egg Avatar’ Durant won’t live down his Twitter mishap
“He didn’t just help recruit me to Boston—he was a big piece of that recruitment. He had talked a lot about [the] city and how it was different to be a Celtic. He talked about the intensity of playing in the Eastern Conference Finals, playing at the Garden in the playoffs and how much fun it was, and how much fun he had playing in Boston.
“All of that ultimately helped win me over. And by the time of the trade, I had already started to build a little bit of a relationship with him.”
In what was the most sensational trade of the summer, Hayward will now be playing alongside Irving in the point guard position. Hayward continued: “I have spent enough years in the NBA to realize that things can change like that, in an instant. Still, even though we didn’t necessarily get to be teammates, I’m definitely going to be watching him as a fan.”
But it won’t be long before the two men meet Thomas once again. As fate would have it, the first regular game of the NBA season will see the Celtics travel to Cleveland on October 18 to take on the Cavaliers.
Isaiah Thomas at Las Vegas's T-Mobile Arena on August 26.   Christian Petersen/Getty


It will take some time for Kevin Durant to live down his recent faux pas on social media. And to some, like ESPN’s Stephen Jackson, the Warriors man may be in danger of being forever remembered for the mishap.
Earlier this week,  Durant was caught defending himself on  Twitter on what was likely intended to be a burner account. A fan had responded to a post from  Durant on Sunday, asking for “one legitimate reason” why the eight-time NBA all-star would leave the Thunder for  the Warriors, a move he made last summer.
Writing in the third person,  Durant responded saying that “he didn’t like the organization or playing for Billy Donovan” and went on to say that “his roster wasn’t that good, it was just him and [Russell] Westbrook.”
Related:   Has Kevin Durant Worn Out His Welcome at Golden State in Just One (Championship) Season?
Durant, who won the NBA championship in June with  the Warriors, has since apologized for the move, describing it as “childish” and “idiotic.” But Jackson, speaking on ESPN’s The Jump, was critical of the 28-year-old and doesn’t believe the incident will ever be forgotten.
 
KD has secret accounts that he uses to defend himself and forgot to switch to them when he was replying to this guy I&#39;m actually speechless pic.twitter.com/9245gnpa3c
 

“Kevin Durant,” Jackson said. “I look at you now as I look at everybody else on Twitter and Instagram that has a little egg avatar. You are that person now. You cannot be excluded from that.
“Who creates a fake page? I'm the person, if I want to respond to somebody on social media, it has to come from my page with a verified check on it.”
Hed:   Kevin Durant Makes Wager With Bill Simmons Over LeBron James Future
Speaking on Tuesday at the TechCrunch Disrupt event in San Francisco, Durant apologized for the criticism of Oklahoma. “I don’t regret clapping back at anybody or talking to my fans on Twitter,” he said, as quoted by the  Guardian. “I do regret using my former coach’s name and the former organization I played for. That was childish. That was idiotic, all those type of words. I apologize for that.”
But the damage to Durant’s reputation has been done, and his current team has noticed. According to  The Vertical, officials and players at Golden State have taken note of his “oddball off-season and are perplexed by it.”
Kevin Durant at San Francisco's Pier 48 on September 19.   Steve Jennings/Getty


Aaron Hernandez, the former New England Patriots tight end who took his own life in jail in April, was suffering from severe brain degeneration when he died.
Hernandez’s family announced the news late Thursday that Hernandez, who was serving a life term without parole for a murder conviction in a Massachusetts jail, had Stage 3 Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy.
The penultimate stage of severity of the brain disease was diagnosed in 99 percent of 111 deceased NFL players in a study conducted by Dr Ann McKee of Boston University and published in July.
McKee also conducted the examination of Hernandez’s brain. A statement from the Concussion Legacy Foundation, which collaborates with Boston University School of Medicine to collect deceased athletes’ brains for study, said Hernandez’s brain was also showing early signs of shrinkage and “large perforations” in a central membrane.
Hernandez, who was 27 when he died in Souza-Baranowski Correctional Facility in Lancaster, Massachusetts, on April 19, was drafted by the Patriots in the fourth round of the 2010 NFL Draft following a career at the University of Florida where he was named an All-American. In a three-year professional career with the Patriots he never made the Pro Bowl but formed a key part of Bill Belichick’s offense alongside Rob Gronkowski.
Hernandez’s later years became marked by violence and crime, however. He was found guilty of the first-degree murder of Odin Lloyd, the boyfriend of the sister of Hernandez’s then-fiancee and later wife Shayanna Jenkins. Hernandez was acquitted of the 2012 double homicide of Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado five days before his suicide.
Jenkins has announced plans to sue the NFL and the Patriots in the wake of Hernandez’s diagnosis on behalf of their daughter, Avielle. A copy of the lawsuit posted by the Boston Herald’s Bob McGovern claims the Patriots and the NFL “failed to disclose, treat or protect” Hernandez from repeated brain injuries.
Jose Baez, Hernandez’s lawyer, told the New York Times on Thursday that Hernandez had “the most severe case [of brain damage] they [McKee’s team] had ever seen in someone of Aaron’s age.”
But Hernandez did not have a public history of diagnosed concussions as an NFL player. A report posted by Boston.com from the Associated Press in April notes he had just one diagnosed concussion in his three seasons that caused him to miss practice the week before the 2011 AFC Championship game against the Baltimore Ravens.
The Patriots won 23-20 with Hernandez playing in the game, catching seven passes and running the ball three times. ‘‘We’re not suggesting anything,’’ Baez said in April when asked if brain damaged had contributed to Hernandez’s suicide. ‘‘You go where the evidence takes you. We need to examine every aspect of this case.’’


Injuries, for athletes, can be some of the darkest and loneliest times of an athletes career.
On Wednesday,  The New York Times published an article following the long recovery of Manchester City’s Ilkay Gundogan, who returned to the football pitch this week after 10 months out with a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his knee.
Gundogan saw his return to fitness as his new job, working hours upon hours until he felt the pain again. “The general feeling,” he said, “is of loneliness.”
Across town at Manchester United, Paul Pogba is set to endure a period on the sidelines after injuring his hamstring a couple of weeks ago in the team’s 3-0 win over FC Basel in the Champions League.
Reports suggested the 24-year-old could be out for between four and 12 weeks, but recent videos of the French midfielder have suggested the former is more likely than the latter.
 
Happiness is always there even injured..yaaaaah @axeltuanzebe_38 your laugh _#manchesterunited #dance
A post shared by Paul Labile Pogba (@paulpogba) on Sep 20, 2017 at 5:07am PDT
 
At this time of the season, with the domestic cup competitions and teams getting into European group stages, it is one of the busiest periods for a club.
Manchester United wants Pogba to return in the best possible form, and according to  The Sun, the club has told him to go on a 10-day vacation before returning to work on his injury.
Pogba had a strong start to the season with a new partner. United had paid Chelsea £40 million (about $54 million) to bring Nemanja Matic to Old Trafford, and his presence is helping Pogba, allowing him to get further upfield.
But now Mourinho will have to make do without him, which he says will be fine. “Squads are for this,” Mourinho said. “Squads are for injuries, squads are for suspensions. So if no Paul for Sunday, we have [Ander] Herrera, we have [Michael] Carrick, we have [Marouane] Fellaini and we have [Nemanja] Matic. We don't cry.”
Paul Pogba at Old Trafford, Manchester, England, September 12.   Laurence Griffiths/Getty


Manchester United may have begun the new Premier League season at a sprint, but Jose Mourinho clearly believes there’s room for improvement.
In the transfer round-up today,  United is linked with a Brazilian midfielder while rival  Manchester City may no longer be favorites to sign  Alexis Sanchez from Arsenal.
Here,  Newsweek  guides you through all the news and rumors circling the Premier League’s transfer market:
Manchester United has identified Santos’ 27-year-old midfielder  Lucas Lima as a potential target for when the transfer window reopens in January, according to  TalkSport. The Brazilian is out of contract at the start of next year, and  Mourinho sees him as a possible replacement for Michael Carrick, who is expected to retire.
Across town, Manchester City has had a blow to its hopes of signing  Alexis Sanchez from Arsenal as  Pep Guardiola’s club believes Paris Saint-Germain is now favorites,  The Sun says. City looked set to sign the Chilean forward on transfer deadline day but the move fell through, and now it fears PSG will offer the £400,000-a-week wages Sanchez wanted from Arsenal.
Related:   Jose Mourinho Makes Surprise Admission After Carabao Cup Win
Juventus chairman Beppe Marotta has revealed that his club would be powerless should Barcelona look to sign forward  Paulo Dybala, according to  The Sun. The 23-year-old has stood out as the team’s star player over the past two seasons. Liverpool, however, would argue that Barcelona can be resisted after Philippe Coutinho was prevented from joining from Liverpool this summer.
Liverpool signed Naby Keita from RB Leipzig in the summer for a club-record fee, set to join up with the team next summer, but Jurgen Klopp also wants one of his teammates. According to  Bild, Liverpool is planning to make a move for Leipzig’s 18-year-old center back  Dayot Upamecano .
And finally, after chasing Antoine Griezmann for the early stages of this summer, Jose Mourinho now even looks unlikely to get the French forward next year. According to  The Mirror, the 26-year-old has decided to stay with Atletico Madrid. On Thursday, he welcomed the arrival of former Chelsea striker Diego Costa, who was expected to be a replacement for Griezmann.


Another week of Thursday Night Football, another absolutely atrocious game for degenerate NFL fans to convince themselves they enjoy sitting through. Last week, it was a 13-9 barn-burner between the Texans and the Bengals, a team that has yet to score a touchdown in 2017. This week, it's the 49ers, who lost a similarly thrilling Week 2 game to the Seahawks 12-9, and the Rams, who are still the Rams.
Related: Tony Romo may be a better analyst than quarterback
This season's uninspiring slate of Thursday Night Football games—minus the opener between the Patriots and Chiefs—is not unusual. It's a time-honored tradition for the NFL to bequeath to its own network the week's least intriguing game (or at least one of the least intriguing games—there are plenty to go around).
But things could be looking up for midweek NFL entertainment. The rest of the 2017 slate of games features a three-week stretch of the Patriots traveling to Tampa to play the upstart Buccaneers, the Eagles playing the Panthers in North Carolina and the Chiefs playing the Raiders in Oakland, which could be one of the best games of the early season. The schedule kind of goes downhill after that, minus an intriguing matchup between the Titans and the Steelers in Pittsburgh in Week 11.
The schedule leaves something to be desired, but it's not the only problem. Teams playing on Thursday night have three days less to prepare than they would if they were playing on Sunday, and, more important, three days less to recover physically. The 49ers on Sunday endured a knock-down, drag-out defensive battle within the home stadium of one of the toughest teams in the league. It was one of the later games on Sunday too. They can't be expected to be at their peak on such short rest. Neither can any team that played 60 minutes of football four days earlier.
The result is sloppy football, and when that sloppy football is being played by teams that aren't very good anyway, it can be excruciating to watch. Ask anyone who tuned in to watch the Texans and Bengals last week.
If this Thursday night you are indeed bored enough to strap in and watch the Rams gut it out against the 49ers at Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara, California, the game will start at 8:25 p.m. ET, or 5:25 p.m. if you're on the West Coast. It will be broadcast live on the NFL Network and available to stream on NFL Mobile from Verizon. Next week's game between the Packers and Bears will be the first of 10 Thursday night games available to stream on Amazon Prime Video.
An added reason to watch this week, we guess, is that the Rams and 49ers will be wearing their Color Rush jerseys. Check them out.


Though the uniforms are cool, staring at those bold colors bouncing around in HD for three hours isn't easy on the eyes. Hopefully, the same won't be said for the actual game.


The Brooklyn Nets lost more games than any other NBA team in the 2016-17 season—and the Cleveland Cavaliers need them to be just as bad this year if LeBron James is going to stay in northeast Ohio.
A report from the New York Times claims James is “increasingly restless” at the Cavaliers, although he could yet be persuaded to stay if Koby Altman can revamp a team that has lost an All-Star point guard in Kyrie Irving and gained one in Isaiah Thomas from the Boston Celtics.
A key part of that deal, of course, was the Nets’ 2018 first-round draft pick that the Celtics acquired in 2013 in the trade that sent Paul Pierce and Kevin Garnett to New York.
The Times notes how a confluence of factors could lead to James’ inevitable departure from Cleveland, for a second time—or how circumstances could fall into place for the Cavaliers so that remaining with his hometown team is left as the only, logical, option.
Isaiah Thomas could perform like he doesn’t have a troubling, troublesome hip injury. Russell Westbrook and Paul George could decide they like the quietude of the Midwest over the neon glare of Los Angeles.
Most importantly, the Nets could once again finish stuck fast to the bottom of the Eastern Conference, losing 60-plus games again and sending the first or second pick in the 2018 NBA Draft to the Cavaliers.
If all of that happens, then the fantastical, purported Los Angeles Lakers team of James, Westbrook, George and Lonzo Ball directing them from the point would appear dead in the water.
Then, James gets a rejuvenated Thomas and an elite prospect to nurse through the juvenile stages of his professional career. James could be the big brother that he was to Kyrie Irving, and see out the end of his career where his emotional attachment will always be strongest.
The NBA’s worst team from last season could certainly help the Cavaliers out by being equally terrible in 2017.


Amid legal wrangles and existential concerns over the future of American football, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell continues to earn a fat wad of cash.
ESPN reports that Goodell, who took over as commissioner from Paul Tagliabue in 2006, should finalize the details of a contract extension in the next few days or weeks after a meeting with the NFL’s “compensation committee” on Wednesday that consists of six franchise owners.
"It's done from ownership perspective," ESPN quoted an unnamed source as saying. Goodell’s current contract, which paid him $32 million in 2015, the last year his salary was disclosed, ends in 2019.
Perhaps more intriguing than Goodell’s salary—$32 million earned in 2015 is more than Matthew Stafford, the NFL’s highest-paid player ever, will earn on average for the next five years of his contract—is the reaction of certain NFL owners to the news. The report claims Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, “raised issues” about Goodell’s new deal. Jones, it is claimed, thinks Goodell makes “way too much money.”
Under Goodell the NFL has set itself ambitious revenue targets. The league expects to make $14 billion in 2017 while Goodell has set a target of $25 billion in annual revenue by 2025.
Against that financial growth—the NFL generated $8 billion annually as recently as 2010—Goodell has faced controversies on his watch, including the handling of former Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice’s domestic violence case. In an August 2014 letter to NFL owners, Goodell apologized to NFL owners for only giving Rice an initial two-game suspension. After video emerged of Rice knocking out his then fiancée in an elevator Goodell extended the ban indefinitely, only for that decision to be overturned in court.
Goodell remains unpopular in New England for the “deflategate” saga, which resulted in a four-game suspension for Tom Brady at the start of the 2016-2017 season. Goodell’s tenure has also been marked by the NFL’s public-relations struggle around brain injuries and their aftereffects. The NFL is currently engaged in a high-profile legal battle surrounding the domestic violence case of Ezekiel Elliott, the Dallas Cowboys running back.
As the highest-profile face of the business side of the NFL, Goodell has taken considerable buckshot. But he survives and prospers because the NFL’s business is, on the bottom line, booming. That looks likely to win him more years in the league’s top job.


It is a little over a year now since Kobe Bryant called it a day and, after five NBA titles, retired from basketball. But the Lakers are still in a state of both celebration and mourning.
He spent his entire career, 20 years, playing for  the Lakers and the team has made it clear that it wants to thank him for his service and make sure he’s remembered in the sport.
Earlier this month,  the Lakers announced that they would be retiring not one but two jerseys, worn by Bryant—he wore numbers 8 and 24—during his time playing at the Staples Center. He becomes the 10th Lakers player to have his shirt retired, but the first to have two.
“As a kid growing up in Italy, I always dreamed of my jersey hanging in  the Lakers rafters, but I certainly never imagined two of them,”  Bryant said. But team president Jeanie Buss doesn’t believe any player would want to go near those numbers given the success of Bryant.
“My feeling is that even if we just retired one number, no one’s ever gonna wear the other, so you may as well retire… no one’s ever gonna wear 8 or 24 for the Lakers ever again,” she said, as quoted by  SB Nation.
Related:   Lonzo Ball, Lakers Big Hope, Seems to Think He’ll Go Down in NBA History
Kobe Bryant at US Airways Center, Phoenix, Arizona, February 19.   Christian Petersen/Getty
Buss and  the Lakers aren’t stopping there, though. There are possible plans, she suggested, that the Staples Center may see a statue of the 18-time All-Star outside it at some point in the future.
She added: “It just worked out that that was the right date to do it, and I think we’ll have a great celebration, and certainly someday there will be a statue as well.”
Bryant, now 39, helped guide the Lakers to five NBA Championships—in 2000, 2001, 2002, 2009 and 2010—and was voted MVP in 2008.
“Kobe was one of the greatest Lakers and NBA players of all-time and he’s definitely on my Mount Rushmore,” said Magic Johnson, director of operations at the Lakers.
“I look forward to seeing both of his jerseys be retired and celebrating this special day with Kobe and his family.”
The Lakers, meanwhile, are busy planning for the future. LeBron James, whose status in the sport is equal to Bryant’s, is the main target for Johnson and the team as he can opt-out of his contract at Cleveland next summer.
The idea of a move to Los Angeles has been backed up. In June,  The Ringer's Kevin O'Connor reported that James looked set for a move to L.A., but whether that was to join the Lakers or the Clippers was uncertain. This was echoed by  Yahoo's Adrian Wojnarowski, who claimed that James's championship win in 2016 "liberated" him to leave Cleveland once again.


Kevin Durant got his wish: He moved from Oklahoma City last summer to Golden State last summer in order to win the NBA championship—it took less than a year to achieve that.
Now,  the Warriors look like they have the potential to go on and dominate for years to come, but  Durant could be in danger of sabotaging himself. The latest incident has reportedly harmed his reputation among the team.
Durant was caught out, red-handed, defending himself on social media from what was likely intended to be a burner account. On Sunday, a fan responded to a post from the eight-times NBA all-star asking for “one legitimate reason” why  Durant would leave the Thunder for the Warriors.
Durant responded, writing in the third person, saying that “he didn’t like the organization or playing for Billy Donovan” and went on to say that “his roster wasn’t that good, it was just him and [Russell] Westbrook.”
 
KD has secret accounts that he uses to defend himself and forgot to switch to them when he was replying to this guy I&#39;m actually speechless pic.twitter.com/9245gnpa3c
 

Users of the social media site were quick to notice that the comments had come from the 28-year-old’s official, verified account. On Tuesday, speaking at the TechCrunch Disrupt event in San Francisco, Durant apologized for his actions.
Related:   Kevin Durant Apologizes For Twitter Faux Pas—But He’d Do it Again
“I don’t regret clapping back at anybody or talking to my fans on Twitter,” the 28-year-old said, as quoted by the  Guardian.
“I do regret using my former coach’s name and the former organization I played for. That was childish. That was idiotic, all those type of words. I apologize for that.”
But the damage to Durant’s reputation has been done, and his current team has noticed.
According to  The Vertical: “Many in Golden State, team officials and players alike, have taken note of Durant’s oddball offseason and are perplexed by it. They see a bright future for Durant in Oakland, league and team sources told The Vertical, and are bewildered as to why he is still addressing his past.”
Related:   Why is Kevin Durant So Angry At The Moment?
He is far from afraid of engaging with fans. Durant’s even got involved in ESPN’s ranking of NBA stars, agreeing with Chris Brickley’s suggestion that placing Carmelo Anthony at 64th in the list was purposely controversial to gain clicks. “Death to espn lol,” Durant commented.
He won’t, however, be disappearing from social media. “I don’t think I’ll stop engaging with fans,” he said. “I really enjoy it and it’s a good way to connect us all, but I’ll scale back a little bit right now and just focus on playing basketball.”
Kevin Durant at San Francisco's Pier 48 on September 19.   Steve Jennings/Getty


Having the NBA’s best all-round player on your team apparently provides no guarantee of financial success, as the Cleveland Cavaliers are finding out.
A report by ESPN shows 14 NBA franchises lost money in the 2016-17 season. Nine of those teams made losses even after revenue-sharing was taken into account.
Those teams include the Cavaliers, who reached the NBA Finals for the second year in a row in June, losing to the Golden State Warriors. The Cavaliers made a net loss after revenue-sharing and the luxury tax were factored in.
That almost half of the league’s teams are loss-making even in the wake of a new $24 billion television deal presents a headache to the NBA as it attempts to balance the desire for parity and the development of smaller-market teams with the league’s behemoths. ESPN notes that smaller-market teams like the Memphis Grizzlies (and the Cavaliers) are struggling to keep up with a rising salary cap because their local television deals are worth far less than the bigger-market franchises.
The report also highlights how financial success in the NBA often fails to correlate with on-court performances. The Los Angeles Lakers finished next-to-bottom of the NBA’s Western Conference in 2016-17 but made a profit of $115 million even after they shared out $49 million to the rest of the league. The Grizzlies, meanwhile, took around $140 million less in local television rights than the Lakers. Four teams, the Warriors, Lakers, Chicago Bulls and New York Knicks, doled out 71.9 percent of the league’s revenue-sharing payments. Only the Warriors, the eventual NBA champions, and the Bulls made the playoffs.
The NBA’s owners are going to review the league’s revenue-sharing agreement at a Board of Governors meeting in New York from September 27-28, according to ESPN. There are arguments on both sides. As the salary cap rises, so smaller-market teams need a larger slice of revenue-sharing in order to stay financially viable. But the Lakers and their counterparts in the United States’ biggest television markets will continue to bristle at sharing the benefits of their popularity with teams who then make the playoffs ahead of them. The NBA’s business continues to boom—but that doesn’t mean there aren’t bumps along the way.


Jurgen Klopp declared himself “sick” after Leicester City rode its luck and displayed some profligate finishing to beat Liverpool in the League Cup third round on Tuesday evening at the King Power Stadium.
Liverpool has now failed to win their last four games and the visceral hammering of Arsenal at Anfield back in August seems a long time ago now. Here are some of the problems with Klopp’s team.
A recurring theme under Klopp—Liverpool is sparkling in attack and holey like a Swiss cheese in defense. Once Leicester warmed to its task in the second half, it found it far too easy to cut through Liverpool.
And this, remember, is a team 15th in the Premier League averaging less than a point a game. There was little anyone could have done about Islam Slimani’s thunderous goal that made it 2-0 to Leicester, but the reactions for Shinji Okazaki’s strike that opened the scoring were far too slow.
When Liverpool is on top in games, as it was in the first half at the King Power Stadium, then Jordan Henderson looks a perfectly capable, even excellent, central midfielder.
Henderson regularly fails to convince, though, when Liverpool comes under pressure. In the second half, when he should have been leading the inexperienced Marko Grujic through the game, the former Sunderland man began to misplace passes. By the end of the game Liverpool was regularly inviting attacks on those nervous central defenders. Conceding goals regularly is rarely just the defense’s fault.
Liverpool spent £35 million on Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain from Arsenal. Oxlade-Chamberlain, the boyfriend of someone from the pop band ‘Little Mix,’ came to Liverpool to play in central midfield, rejecting Chelsea in the process.
At the moment, the pricey experiment is yet to work out for either party. On his first start for Liverpool Oxlade-Chamberlain was occasionally promising, more often clumsy especially in the second half as his team was pushed back towards its own goal. It is more than slightly dizzying to consider that Mohamed Salah, Liverpool’s other expensive summer signing, cost the same amount of money as Oxlade-Chamberlain. Salah looks more than worth the money; “The Ox,” as of yet, does not.
This comes heavily prefaced with the caveat that neither Roberto Firmino, Sadio Mane nor Salah, Liverpool’s first-choice attacking trident, played against Leicester. Even so, it was impossible not to notice the contrast between Liverpool’s performance in the first half when Coutinho was on the pitch and the second, when he was withdrawn for the prodigal teenager Ben Woodburn. Liverpool is a better team when Coutinho prods and prompts; for its supporters, the prospect of his seemingly inevitable departure must be a terrifying one.
Against Burnley at the weekend, Liverpool took 35 shots and scored only once. Against Leicester, it had 21 but just three were on target and it was held off the scoresheet. It is becoming as much of a problem as the defense that Liverpool will regularly dominate teams in terms of possession and chances, yet just as regularly fail to kill the game off.
Daniel Sturridge played against Burnley but he looks a shadow of the player who was so successful alongside Luis Suarez under Brendan Rodgers. Liverpool can be thrilling to watch but that will be remembered less than their ability to put their many chances away.


Jack Wilshere is looking to move to London rivals West Ham in January after Arsenal showed little interest in extending his contract when it expires at the end of the season, according to reports.
Wilshere, whose career has been plagued by injuries, spent last season on loan with Eddie Howe’s Bournemouth after  Arsene Wenger made it clear he wasn’t a first choice at  Arsenal.
The 25-year-old is back in north London this season but has played just 22 minutes so far, coming off the bench in a 3-1 win over Cologne in the Europa League group stage.
Wilshere was linked with a move to  West Ham over the summer but now the English midfielder is looking to make that move go through in January, according to the  Daily Star.
The Hammers had been reportedly put off from buying Wilshere last month after being given a valuation of £20 million (about $27 million) for the midfielder.
Related:   Why is Jose Mourinho in Danger of Doing an Arsene Wenger at Manchester United?
Wenger, however, has suggested Wilshere does have a future at the Emirates Stadium, challenging him to prove his fitness the season to earn a new contract.
“It’s a dream for all of us,” Wenger said, as quoted by  The Daily Telegraph. “I gave Jack his start at 17 years of age. You have to be convinced to play a boy at 17 that he is a special player. He is a special player, but we are all the same in that you need health to work.”
Wenger’s team faces Doncaster in the League Cup on Wednesday night, with Wilshere expected to be given an opportunity to prove himself in a weakened Arsenal XI.
In the Premier League, however, Wenger will need his best team out as the Gunners look to climb up from 12th in the table. Two defeats, to Stoke and then Liverpool, have left Wenger’s team six points behind leaders Manchester City and Manchester United.


Manchester United will battle Manchester City for the signing of Arsenal forward Alexis Sanchez who can leave on a free next summer, according to reports.
Sanchez, the Chilean forward, looked set to join  Pep Guardiola’s City on the final day of the transfer window in August, after a reported £80 million (about $108 million) bid.
But  Arsene Wenger resisted selling, meaning Sanchez is free to talk to any club he wishes in January and make a pre-contract agreement for the summer.
That looked set to be City, but  Jose Mourinho has thrown a spanner into the works by entering  United into the race for the 28-year-old, according to  The Sun.
Sanchez has made just one start in the Premier League this season, and scored his first goal of the campaign in a 3-1 win over Cologne in the Europa League last week.
Related:   Why is Jose Mourinho in Danger of Doing an Arsene Wenger at Manchester United?
While Arsenal sit 12th in the table after five games, Sanchez’s two potential suitors are level on points and goal difference at the top of the league. City leads only due to the fact that teams are listed in alphabetical order.
Guardiola’s men, even without Sanchez, have torn past teams at the start of this season, scoring 15 goals and conceding zero in the last three games, including a 5-0 win against Liverpool.
Manchester United’s football has not been quite as aesthetically pleasing, but  Mourinho’s team has succeeded in grinding down teams and then trampling over them. Twice, against Swansea and Everton on Sunday, United has not played particularly well but come out on the right end of a 4-0 result.
Sanchez only has to wait four months to know where he’ll be playing his football next season, and with two good choices, Mourinho has given him a nice problem to have.


Home run number 55 was one of those shots that only Giancarlo Stanton, maybe, in the whole of professional baseball can hit. In the bottom of the fourth inning, not an arcing moonshot to left field but a viciously cracked laser beam that hardly seemed to leave the ground and yet traveled 455 feet, straight, to the right of that weird tropical structure as the viewer saw it on television.
That it would be a homer was never in doubt from the moment the ball left Stanton’s bat at the bottom of the fourth inning at Marlins Park, the knockout artist formerly known as "Mike" cracking open what had been a tight game on the way to a 13-1 win over the tailspinning New York Mets.
Stanton is hitting with the certainty of a man closing in on a record. Only five players have ever hit the 60-home-run mark in a single season: Babe Ruth in 1927, Roger Maris in 1961, Sammy Sosa, Mark McGwire and Barry Bonds.
Do not hang breaking balls to Giancarlo Stanton. No. 55. pic.twitter.com/lSSnfmni92
Sosa did it three times, the first in 1998 when McGwire cracked 70, beaten only by Bonds three years later. Already, through 150 games Stanton stands at 19th on the all-time list and yet Bonds’s 73 is out of reach even in this jaw-loosening season.
Each mighty swing carries with it a physical sureness, yes, and questions trailing in the vacuum behind. The seemingly unreachable marks of McGwire and Bonds stand, officially, as do Sosa’s 60-plus seasons. Each has been tarnished. McGwire admitted to steroid use, Sosa allegedly tested positive for steroids in 2003 although he has always denied using PEDs, and Bonds became tangled up in the Balco scandal tightly enough that he still awaits entry into Cooperstown and the Hall of Fame.
“You’re never going to see that again in your life…never,” Sosa said in January of this year, as quoted by Sporting News. “You’re never going to see the show Mark and I put on…never. You’re not going to see that excitement again. We were the ones bringing more fans to the stadium.… I feel proud of what I did. The only thing is, they can say whatever they want to say about me. First of all, I’m clean. They don’t have a case on me. I never failed a drug test. Never in my life.”
Sosa is right, even in a season of unprecedented consistency in home-run hitting across the league. Behind Stanton only Judge, on 44, and the Arizona Diamondbacks’ J.D. Martinez have passed 40 this season. Which leaves more questions swirling around Marlins Park with the fast-food wrappers, around the seats dented by Stanton’s exocets. “We’ve had that talk a couple of times: Which one? What do they mean individually?” The Marlins’ Christian Yelich said last week in quotes reported by The New York Times of discussions with Stanton about which mark he is really chasing. “We were both like, ‘I don’t know.’’’
Where does Stanton stand, when he’s not threatening the roof of Marlins Park? “Considering some things, I do,’’ he said in August when asked whether he considered Maris’s 61 home runs as the true single-season record.
Each blow from now on brings him closer to that mark, answering a question of himself and posing an existential one to baseball. The Marlins’ muscled superhero is showing the gossamer uncertainty of MLB’s recent past.


Someone may need to tell Magic Johnson that secret weapons lose effectiveness when you name them on national television. That was what the Lakers president of basketball operations did earlier this week on ESPN.
Despite how effusive he has been about the newly drafted Lonzo Ball,  Johnson wasn’t referring to the 19-year-old point guard when he described a Lakers player as having the same “basketball IQ” as him. No, Johnson told First Take that he believed it would be Larry Nance Jr. who would be a key figure for  the Lakers this coming season.
“Our secret weapon is Larry Nance,” Johnson said. “We’ve gotten calls from a lot of teams wanting to trade for him and Brandon Ingram and we’ve said no. Larry is such a fundamentally sound basketball player.”
Nance, the 24-year-old forward, has averaged 6.3 points and 5.4 rebounds in his first couple of seasons with  the Lakers. Yet Johnson must be expecting those numbers to increase significantly this coming season, which begins on October 1 with the Timberwolves traveling to California.
Related:   Lakers to LeBron James: Come to L.A., Your Team’s Already Here
There may, however, be another reason that Nance could play a key role in the Lakers season, and that is due to the fact the team has less than 12 months to tempt  LeBron James to join. The  Cavs man can opt out of his contract at Cleveland at the end of the season, with Los Angeles a possible destination.
Los Angeles appears to be making itself appear as attractive as possible, given the fact that it is signing former Cavaliers center Andrew Bogut on a one-year deal, according to  ESPN. Nance may also play a role in luring LeBron considering both come from Akron, Ohio, though it's difficult to ascertain how much pull that might have.
It seems increasingly likely that James will not be playing in Cleveland come next summer, with Los Angeles as a possible destination. This theory was reported by  The Ringer’s Kevin O’Connor in June, and echoed by  Yahoo’s Adrian Wojnarowski earlier this summer, both saying James would end up in L.A. with either the Lakers or the Clippers.  Peter Vecsey, the Bleacher Report columnist, went one step further this week to say the decision had already been made and he was going to the Lakers.
At least, with Nance and Bogut, he would have something in common with his new teammates.


Eden Hazard has praised the work of Antonio Conte, Jose Mourinho’s successor at Chelsea, claiming that he improved him in just a week.
Hazard won the Premier League with both  Mourinho and Conte, in 2015 and 2017, respectively, as well as being named PFA Player of the Year and runner-up.
Conte, the former Juventus and Italy national team coach, took over from  Mourinho last summer, winning the title in his first year at Stamford Bridge, and Hazard says his impact was immediate.
“Even after a week I think I had progressed with him,” the 26-year-old Belgian said, as quoted by the  Daily Mail.
“I think he's shown not just at Chelsea but also at Juve that he's a good coach and I think he has some good years ahead of him.”
Related:   Why is Jose Mourinho in Danger of Doing an Arsene Wenger at Manchester United?
Conte is in his second season as Chelsea manager despite speculation over the summer that the 48-year-old Italian was close to leaving Stamford Bridge.
After returning the west London club to the Champions League, Conte is now aiming to take the club to its third European trophy in six years, after Chelsea won the Champions League in 2012 and Europa League in 2013.
“There's a lot of tactics,” Hazard said of training with Conte. “It's not always nice as a forward as you have to run, defend and everything, but at least at the weekend, you know exactly what to do, you can even close your eyes and play. That's good.”
Mourinho, meanwhile, is now manager at  Manchester United, tasked with bringing back the Premier League trophy, a title he has won three times, back to Old Trafford.
His team is currently second in the Premier League table, to rival Manchester City, but only alphabetically;  United has the same points and goal difference as Pep Guardiola’s City after five games.


When Pep Guardiola, one of soccer’s most coveted managers, signed as coach of English club Manchester City in January 2016, the deal had been a work in progress for four years. City had built a foundation that would make the Etihad Stadium an attractive prospect for Guardiola.
Other than the material attraction of the club, a 55,000-seater stadium and state-of-the-art academy,  City’s strongest offensive to lure  Guardiola was through recruitment. In 2012, the club made Ferran Soriano its CEO and Txiki Begiristain its director of football; both had worked with Guardiola at Barcelona, as vice president  and technical director, respectively.
City transformed itself from alien to familiar for Guardiola, and that may well be the approach the  Lakers are looking to take as  L.A. also tries to pull off one of the most sensational signings in sports.
LeBron James, the four-time MVP with three rings, has a decision to make. Next summer, the 32-year-old has the opportunity to opt out of his contract with the Cleveland Cavaliers, the team he won the championship with in 2016, and the team he also left in 2010 for the Miami Heat.
Related:   LeBron James Scouts L.A. Schools in Biggest Sign Yet He’s Heading to Lakers
But that departure worked out for James. In four years in Florida, he enjoyed the most prosperous years of his career, winning back-to-back NBA titles and three of his four MVP awards.
It seems, increasingly, that James will not be playing in Cleveland come next summer, and heading for Los Angeles instead. This theory was reported by  The Ringer’s Kevin O’Connor in June, and echoed by  Yahoo’s Adrian Wojnarowski earlier this summer, both saying James would end up in L.A. with either the Lakers or the Clippers.  Peter Vecsey, the Bleacher Report columnist, went one step further this week to say the decision had already been made and he was going to the Lakers.
The Lakers, like Manchester City, look like they’re trying to make Los Angeles seem as familiar as possible for James. According to  ESPN, they have even begun to sign his former teammates, taking center Andrew Bogut on a one-year deal.
Fortunately for the Lakers, L.A. is already home for James. He owns a house in Brentwood, and reports last week even suggested he and wife Savannah had  spent time scouting schools in the area for their 12-year-old son Bronny.
But will the Lakers, like Manchester City, get their man? Time, as they say, will tell.


In his first major interview since the blockbuster trade that took him from the Cleveland Cavaliers to the Boston Celtics, Kyrie Irving veered between succinct and testy.
Irving, the point guard who in conjunction with LeBron James took the Cavaliers to the first NBA Championship in their history in 2016, sat down for an hour with ESPN First Take’s Max Kellerman, Molly Qerim and Stephen A. Smith to discuss why he pushed for a move away from northeast Ohio.
Irving was careful to avoid direct criticism of either the Cavaliers coaching staff or James in the interview, although some of his words could certainly be interpreted that way. Asked about the factors that provoked his decision to ask for a trade, Irving said: “As a 25-year-old evolving man, coming in to perfect my craft every single day, I just wanted to be in an environment where I felt I could be taught every single day and have that demand from my coaching staff and have that demand from a franchise that would propel me to exceed my potential and see how far I can go.” As ESPN noted in its own analysis of the interview, that sounded like something of a shot at Tyronn Lue, the Cavaliers’ head coach.
Of course, most of the casual interest in the interview surrounded Irving’s relationship with James, the “big brother” who took Irving under his wing after the Duke graduate was drafted first overall in 2011.
Irving deferred on a definitive answer as to whether his trade that sent Isaiah Thomas to the Cavaliers in return was motivated by a desire to get away from James’s shadow, as had been widely reported. And he offered the shortest of answers when asked if he had spoken to James prior to demanding the trade. “No,” Irving said. “Why would I have to?”
Pressed repeatedly on the status of his friendship with James, Irving finally snapped. “Why does it continually have to be about one player? Do you realize I play with 13 other guys on the team?”
Irving sounded most hurt when talking about the way that the news of the trade leaked out in late July. Smith was the journalist who claimed back then that Irving believed James’s camp had leaked the news of his desire to leave the Cavaliers.
“I think that how ironic it was that I was on my China trip and my trade request all of sudden just came out publicly. It was hurtful, because I knew how professional I had kept it throughout the whole entire process. And how strategic it was, because I knew that it was going to be madness, and it turned out to be like that.”
It’s all a pretty compelling prelude to the first time Irving and James meet as opponents on the court, on opening night of the 2017-18 NBA season at Quicken Loans Arena on October 17.


On the pitch, Romelu Lukaku has made a rapid start to his Manchester United career.
Off it, the Belgium striker is causing controversy through no fault of his own.
To accompany their new forward’s goalscoring feats, a section of United’s support has started up a chant referring to Lukaku’s penis, to the tune of a song by English 1980s rock band The Stone Roses' called ‘Made of Stone.’ (United, it should be pointed out tangentially, walks out onto the Old Trafford pitch to another Stone Roses song, ‘This Is The One.’)
“Romelu Lukaku, he’s our Belgian scoring genius with a 24-inch penis, scoring all our goals, bellend by his toes,” the song goes.
A piece posted Monday on the well-known United blog, Republik of Mancunia, called the chant “drivel that belongs in the 1980s” and now The Independent reports that United will “seek advice” over the chant after being contacted by anti-racism organization Kick It Out.
“Kick It Out is aware of footage of alleged racist chanting by supporters of Manchester United that emerged on Wednesday evening [September 13],” a Kick It Out statement reported by The Independent read.
“The lyrics used in the chant are offensive and discriminatory. Racist stereotypes are never acceptable in football or wider society, irrespective of any intention to show support for a player.
“We have contacted Manchester United regarding the issue and will be working closely with them and the FA to ensure that it is addressed swiftly. If we receive any reports relating to the discriminatory chant, those will be passed on to the governing body and the perpetrators can expect to face punishment.”
The specter of supposedly “ironic” derogatory chanting by Premier League supporters has already raised its head earlier this month, when Chelsea condemned as “unacceptable” anti-Semitic chants from its supporters during the victory against Leicester at the King Power Stadium, aimed at the large Jewish fanbase of rival club Tottenham Hotspur. Alvaro Morata, the unwitting Chelsea striker around whom the chant revolved, appealed for “respect for everyone” in the wake of the incident.


Look, no one wants to tank, just like no one wants to have a troublesome tooth removed. Just like no one wants to cut ties with or demote a multiple Super Bowl-winning quarterback.
But when your team is lumbering as badly as the New York Giants, there may not be many better choices.
The Giants were horrible again under the spotlight on Monday night, falling to 0-2 against an intermittently brilliant but flawed Detroit Lions team.
Even the Detroit Free Press tempered its enthusiasm for the Lions’ 24-10 victory by noting that the Giants were “terrible,” pointing out New York’s preponderance for “stupid penalties” on both sides of the ball.
The Giants’ problems probably don’t start or end with Eli Manning, the 36-year-old quarterback who led both of those improbable Super Bowl runs in the last decade. Manning, who has never been a running quarterback, must work behind an offensive line that gave up three sacks on Monday to Ziggy Ansah alone. Although Brandon Marshall was added to the Giants’ offense this year—the Pro Bowl wide receiver had a disappointing evening against the Lions—Odell Beckham is yet to get up to full speed after an ankle sprain. The Giants have no running game to speak of. Manning is working, metaphorically, on one leg.
And yet…there is rarely room for nostalgia in the NFL, at least before a player has long since retired. Even Tom Brady is going to find that out. Manning wasn’t good on Monday despite completing 22 of 32 passes for 239 yards with a touchdown and an interception. “No part of the offense was functional,” head coach Ben McAdoo said in quotes reported by ESPN.
That includes the signal-caller. ESPN quotes an unnamed NFL executive as saying Manning’s age, coupled with his lack of protection, is beginning to count against him. “Combination of age and questionable offensive line isn’t a favorable pairing for Eli,” the executive said. “No one seems to think of their [quarterback] situation as a potential weakness. I do.”
Manning is signed through 2019, and the Giants did draft a quarterback in the spring in Davis Webb, a third-rounder out of Texas Tech. Manning, who says he wants to play into his 40s, almost certainly isn’t going anywhere while Webb develops.
But the 2018 NFL Draft looks like a special year for quarterbacks, with USC’s Sam Darnold the biggest prize for the league’s biggest loser. Behind Darnold there are other potential NFL starters waiting. Manning isn’t the problem, and a more measured option may be to use the draft to get Manning some premium-quality help on the offensive line. But the pot of gold lying at the end of the rainbow for any team willing to be truly awful this season means he may be one of the easier problems for the Giants to solve.


The list of criticisms provided by some quarters at the Emirates Stadium would be long: Stubborn, lacking dynamism, too purist, failure to think forward. These are some of the accusations made against Arsene Wenger, Arsenal manager for 21 years, made famous by Arsenal Fan TV.
The latest grumble that has rumbled on in north London over their manager is the gamble  Wenger and the board have taken over player contracts;  Arsenal, somehow, allowed a string of first-team players to reach the final year of their deals, leaving the club vulnerable to their departing next summer for nothing.
On transfer deadline day, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain moved to rival club Liverpool for £35 million (about $47 million); Alexis Sanchez came close to switching to Manchester City; Mesut Ozil’s future at the club was never certain. Arsenal was forced into a corner by its failure to get key players to sign contracts earlier.
And here’s where  Jose Mourinho comes in. The prospect of  Mourinho being compared to Wenger is almost unthinkable; purist vs. pragmatist, they differ in so many ways. But  Mourinho may have found himself in a similar position to Wenger, because the Manchester United manager has at least seven first-team players in the final year of their contracts.
Related:   Manchester United and Jose Mourinho in Danger of Losing Star Midfielder
According to  Sports Mole, Juan Mata, Daley Blind, Ander Herrera, Marouane Fellaini, Luke Shaw, Michael Carrick and Ashley Young are all in the last year of their deals at Old Trafford. Come January, each player, worth a combined £100 million and, possibly, more, could make a pre-contract agreement with another team and leave for free next summer.
Turning 37 next year, Carrick, the club captain who is yet to feature this season, is likely to retire from football at the end of this campaign. But Mourinho has relied heavily on Fellaini, Mata, Herrera and Blind this season, who have made a total of 23 appearances in the first team between them in United’s first seven games of the season.
United, the  Daily Mail says, has fallen short of Fellaini’s hopes with its latest deal to the Belgian midfielder. But Fellaini is turning 30 in November and United’s policy is to give one-year rolling contracts to players aged 30 and above.
Ed Woodward, Manchester United’s executive vice-chairman, will have to resolve the situation over the next few months or feel the wrath of Mourinho. The Portuguese coach won’t take kindly to being compared to Wenger.


Marouane Fellaini is yet to accept Manchester United’s offer of a new contract and could leave Old Trafford for free next summer, according to reports.
The Belgium midfielder has become a key figure for  Jose Mourinho since the Portuguese coach took over from Louis van Gaal last summer, with Fellaini featuring in all  United’s games so far this season.
According to the  Daily Mail, United’s latest offer to the 29-year-old midfielder has not met his expectations. Fellaini turns 30 in November and the club’s policy has been to offer one-year rolling contracts to players aged 30 and above.
Mourinho, however, will want to make sure the Belgian remains in his squad. Earlier this month the United boss said: “I always thought that he was a player with special qualities and players with special qualities are players with a place in your team or in your squad.
Related:   Jose Mourinho Identifies Two Potential Candidates to Replace Michael Carrick
“I knew he was a player with a lot to give, but I think the relation between the players and the managers are very important in their performance levels, confidence levels and self-esteem levels.”
Fellaini joined United in 2013, brought to Old Trafford from Everton by his former coach David Moyes who was sacked after less than a year in the job.
Despite many fans believing the midfielder’s style didn’t fit in at United, Fellaini remained under Van Gaal and is flourishing with Mourinho, becoming a key figure in his squad.
Top of the Premier League, United travels to Southampton on Saturday as it looks to keep up with rival  Manchester City, which is level on points and goal difference.
First, though, United hosts Championship club Burton Albion at Old Trafford on Wednesday in the League Cup.


Just about two weeks through the 2017 NFL season, we can see pretty clear divisions between who’s the class in both conferences. It’s also a strong enough sample size to really break down who’s a surefire bet for FanDuel, DraftKings and other daily fantasy lineups.
Thus far, very little has changed compared to last season and who DFS owners can trust on a week-to-week basis.
We waited a couple weeks for the divisions to form and it should be worth the wait since it allowed us to assess who is falling and who’s on the rise. How many of us really thought Bengals quarterback Andy Dalton would collapse and turn top DFS weapons like receiver A.J. Green and tight end Tyler Eifert into wasted salary cap? That’s something we wouldn’t have known prior to Weeks 1 and 2.
Or what if Chiefs' running back Kareem Hunt’s Week 1 annihilation of the New England Patriots’ depth-lacking defense was just an outlier? Turns out it totally wasn’t.
Hunt’s the prime example of rookie running backs — like the Jaguars' Leonard Fournette and the Vikings' Dalvin Cook — taking over this season, while Cowboys sophomore Ezekiel Elliott has failed to regain the power and speed from his rookie campaign with a suspension and court battles hanging over him.
As far as receiving goes, there’s very few, if any, fresh faces making cases for regular DFS consideration. The Vikings' Adam Thielen is currently No. 2 in the league in receiving and Eagles tight end Zach Ertz is right behind him, but otherwise, we have the regular cast of characters of the Steelers' Antonio Brown, the Falcons' Julio Jones and the Raiders' Michael Crabtree maintaining his solid connection with quarterback Derek Carr.
Speaking of quarterbacks, Carr and Kansas City’s Alex Smith are currently second in the NFL with five touchdown passes apiece, behind only…the Broncos' Trevor Siemian. That might be the only true surprise NFL fans and fantasy players have experienced so far in 2017.
The tried-and-true stars still provide the lifeblood of DFS lineups — for now — but finding that proper combo is what help owners win each week. Here are the rankings for Week 3 at each position, including FLEX.
QB
1. Matt Ryan, Falcons
2. Tom Brady, Patriots
3. Carson Wentz, Eagles
4. Dak Prescott, Cowboys
5. Drew Brees, Saints
Ryan has kept the momentum from his MVP campaign last year and his price could be lower against a Lions secondary that picked off three passes in its first game. At 40, Brady’s leading the league in passing yardage and is fifth in yards per attempt, so it makes sense to go with the hot hand. However, he is facing Houston’s No. 6 pass defense, even if it only has three sacks so far. Brady’s also expensive for DFS owners so Wentz could be a solid fill-in. The second-year passer can light up the Giants and he can make up for his three picks in two games against New York last year. Everyone expected Prescott to come back to earth and he could still struggle against an Arizona defense that looked far better in Week 2, but Brees has an even tougher matchup against a Panthers D that hasn’t surrendered a passing touchdown in its first two games.
RB
1. Kareem Hunt, Chiefs
2. Jay Ajayi, Dolphins
3. Javorious Allen, Ravens
4. Carlos Hyde, 49ers
5. Mike Gillislee, Patriots
Hunt’s the hottest and likely the most expensive back in the league, so if you opt not to blow a huge chunk of your cap on him Ajayi’s matchup with the Jets last placing rushing defense is quite tempting. Allen could the stabilizing force the Ravens’ backfield has missed since Ray Rice and he draws the Jaguars fourth-worst rushing D. Hyde has a short week, which could be a drawback, but he meets the Rams, who are letting up 4.8 yards per carry. Gillislee seems like a steady red-zone battering ram, even if he doesn’t get a ton of yards, so maybe he’s your No. 2 back or FLEX spot.
WR
1. Antonio Brown, Steelers
2. Julio Jones, Falcons
3. Michael Crabtree, Raiders
4. Keenan Allen, Chargers
5. Dez Bryant, Cowboys
Brown and Jones are expensive but locks to put up solid numbers in very favorable matchups. Brown has the Bears, who are eighth-worst in yards surrendered to receivers and Jones can muscle his way for extra yardage against the Lions. The Redskins, coughing up 559 yards and three touchdowns at 13.3 yards per catch, will have to figure out Crabtree, while a healthy Allen is worth a gamble in DFS since you would have him for just one week. Bryan is obviously reliant on Prescott, but he has the power to bust out of tackles and gain huge chunks of yardage with Arizona allow more than 10 yards a catch.
New England Patriots tight end Rob Gronkowski (87) is tackled by New Orleans Saints safety Kenny Vaccaro (32) during the first quarter of a game at the Mercedes-Benz Superdome.   USA Today Sports via Reuters/ Derick E. Hingle
TE
1. Rob Gronkowski, Patriots
2. Travis Kelce, Chiefs
3. Delanie Walker, Titans
4. Zack Ertz, Eagles
5. Jason Witten, Cowboys
Gronk has only caught eight of the 15 balls sent his way, but he’s the ninth leading pass catcher in the league, meaning he’s making the most of each target. Ertz has 190 yards and two scores, and pairing him and Wentz could mean beaucoup points since the Giants are likely to be focused on Philly’s primary receivers. Walker has snatched 11 of 13 balls and Marcus Mariota will look his way more than deep balls against Seattle. Witten is padding his Hall of Fame career and might be good for a few catches and a touchdown.
FLEX
1. Ty Montgomery, RB, Packers
2. Lamar Miller, RB, Texans
3. Adam Thielen, WR, Vikings
Montgomery will stare down the Bengals second-worst rushing defense and be even stronger than he was against Atlanta in Week 2, especially if you’re in a PPR-league. Miller gets to take advantage of the Patriots severely lacking rush defense this week, but could be a big gamble since Houston’s offense is so limited. Thielen clearly has a good rapport with Case Keenum but Sam Bradford could return from a bone bruise in his knee, although that’s a premature assumption at the moment.
Defense
1. Baltimore
2. New England
3. Denver
4. Miami
5. LA Rams
The Ravens lead the league in total takeaways with 10 and will face Blake Bortles, making them pricey but probably a sure thing. The Texans turned things over to Deshaun Watson and he was fine against Cincy, but the rookie has to face a Bill Belichick defense. Denver meets a one-dimensional Bills offense, while Miami draws the hapless Jets. The Rams, though it’s a Thursday game, get a 49ers offense averaging six points after two games.


After two Sundays of NFL football, seven teams are undefeated. The Broncos, Ravens, Panthers, Chiefs, Steelers, Raiders and Falcons all turned in impressive wins to move to 2-0 on the season (all right, the Panthers 9-3 barn-burning win against the Bills wasn't that impressive, but a win's a win). The Detroit Lions will have a chance to join the ranks of the early-season elite Monday night as they take on the New York Giants, who looked absolutely putrid in a 19-3 loss to the Cowboys in Week 1.
Related: Detroit Lions star could become NFL's highest-paid player
Many blamed the Giants' sluggish Week 1 offense on the absence of star reciever Odell Beckham Jr., who was out with an ankle injury suffered during the preseason. He'll be a game-time decision to take the field at home vs. the Lions, but the Giants better hope he plays if they want to keep up with Matthew Stafford, Golden Tate and the rest of the Detroit offense, which dropped 35 points on the Cardinals a week ago.
Both teams are competing in a tough division this year. Though the Bears look like a write-off, the Vikings are much improved and the Packers employ Aaron Rodgers. The Lions will have to fend them both off if they want to win the division, and would love to move a game clear of their 1-1 rivals.
It's anybody's guess who will emerge as the NFC East champion. Last year's surprise breakout, the Cowboys, looked great in Week 1 against the Giants, but were absolutely manhandled by the Broncos on Sunday. The Eagles took care of the Redskins, before losing to the Chiefs in Week 2, while the Redskins moved to 1-1 this week with a dramatic win over the Los Angeles Rams. If the Giants can manage a win at home Monday night, the East will be the only division locked in a four-way tie with two weeks of football in the books.
Fortunately for NFL fans who have to be at work early Tuesday morning, the Giants/Lions contest is the only Monday Night Football game this week, so no one will have to stay up until 2 a.m. trying to figure out what the hell Rex Ryan is talking about (or waiting for another appearance from sideline sensation Sergio Dipp). The lone game—which will be called by Sean McDonough, Jon Gruden, Lisa Salters—will begin at 8:30 p.m. ET on ESPN, and be available to stream on the WatchESPN app.
Now, because the game Monday night will likely be underwhelming, as most NFL games seem to be these days, let's once again enjoy the sideline stylings of Dipp. ESPN, we know you've had a rough few weeks. Give the people what they want and bring back Sergio.



If you're not obsessive about Twitter (God bless your innocent heart), you may not understand that the social media site—and I'm being generous here—generally features a breakdown of 60 percent absolute trash, 30 percent of what's effectively online sawdust, and 10 percent quality things. 
NBA superstar Kevin Durant, or at least his Twitter account, gave us a very good thing very early Morning morning. Here's another thing you should understand about Twitter: the more prominent you are in the public eye, generally speaking, the shittier your experience will be on the site. Speaking as a writer with roughly 16.9 million fewer followers than Durant—I can safely say hate tweets directed my way are a nearly daily occurrence. As a somewhat controversial NBA star, I cannot imagine Durant's steady diet of vitriol. 
Celebrities and athletes, however, rarely use Twitter to defend themselves because there's no point in them diving into the gutters with us plebeians. For starters, the volume of hate is likely too great to address, plus athletes like to be "better than the haters" and "above the pettiness." But late Sunday night, Durant's account, in what was almost definitely a mistake of some sort, bluntly defended the player's decision last summer to defect from the Oklahoma City Thunder to the Golden State Warriors.
In tweets that have since been deleted, but apparently were screenshot (hat tip to @harrisonmc15), a user with the handle @ColeCashwell tweeted, "man I respect the hell outta you but give me one legitimate reason for leaving okc other than getting a championship."
Durant's account apparently responded, "he didn't like the organization or playing for [OKC coach] Billy Donovan. His roster wasn't that good, it was just him and [Russell Westbrook]."
Not stopping at just one tweet, Durant's account then tweeted, "imagine taking russ off that team, see how bad they were. Kd can't win a championship with those cats."
(Now these screenshots could have been faked, but it appears to have been caught by multiple people and written about by sites such as Sports Illustrated and Yahoo, and the original tweet from @ColeCashwell seems to still be up.) 





Now, there's a pretty decent chance this wasn't Durant himself, since most athletes (especially someone as famous as Durant), have folks who handle a lot of their social media presence. Someone could have meant to respond from a personal account before realizing they were still logged in to @KDTrey5. It would have to be a social media manager who is relatively anonymous, however, since the NBA is a small, insular world and a league reporter would likely notice if a known Durant associate was defending him online with inside information about the star's thinking. 
Meanwhile, some have suggested the star could have meant to post the messages from a secret account he uses to defend himself online. Durant has been pretty active on social media recently, spending a fair bit of his summer ruthlessly roasting Twitter trolls in posts that were clearly from the player. On the podcast from Bill Simmons, head of The Ringer, Durant even said he felt he had earned the offseason social media MVP with his candor.
"I should be," he said. "I keep it real, man. I keep it real. I mean, I used to think, 'man, let me watch what I say about this or that'; [but] at the end of the day it’s all jokes to everybody anyway. They make jokes about whatever goes on in this basketball world anyway, so why can’t I just chime in and tell y’all how I feel?"
It's not unprecedented for someone with a large following to have a secret account. The Facebook account for polarizing Fox Sports personality Skip Bayless once infamously responded on Facebook with, "Skip, you are the man!"
Regardless of who tweeted the now-infamous post, it was amazing to see both candor and weapons-grade levels of pettiness from a world-famous athlete. (His former teammates might not agree with that sentiment.) Twitter snafus are often the best snafus, and this Durant business is no exception. And, of course, the reaction jokes have been wonderful.






By Monday, Durant had not yet issued the requisite, "I was hacked," or "the intern did a bad thing" statement, so for now, all we have is our theories. 


Anthony Martial still doesn’t seem to be trusted enough by José Mourinho to actually start a Premier League game.
For the moment, though, the situation seems to suit player, club and manager just fine.
Martial scored again after coming on as a substitute late in the second half against Everton in United’s 4-0 victory on Sunday that kept it joint top of the Premier League with cross-city rival Manchester City. The Frenchman won a penalty, then converted it, taking the kick ahead of regular penalty taker Romelu Lukaku.
Martial has made five Premier League appearances this season, starting just once. In those games, according to WhoScored.com, he has scored three goals and assisted once. In 122 minutes of football this season, Martial averages a goal or assist every 30.5 minutes.
It’s a stark contrast to last season, when Mourinho would regularly complain about Martial’s performances. “We are together for almost 10 months,” Mourinho said last April, as reported by The Guardian, after dropping Martial from United’s match-day squad altogether. “The same way I know the players much better now, the players should know me much better. Do I think Anthony is a player with great potential? Yes, I think. Do I think he can play successfully for me? Yes, I think. But he needs to give me things that I like.”
Mourinho’s strategy in the league this season, for the most part, has been to use Martial late in games as a replacement for Marcus Rashford on the left wing. Far from sulking at apparently being used as a backup option, Martial appears reinvigorated. It is no less than a horrible prospect for a full back to have to face someone so skilful, quick and powerful late in a game.
The Frenchman’s reemergence is surely one of the main reasons behind United’s rush of late goals this season. Against Everton, as against Swansea, United labored through much of the second half before Martial, in conjunction with Jesse Lingard, added zest and energy to its attack—a Rolls-Royce burning rubber and fuel in the tractor’s trail.
These are early days, of course. United’s schedule in the league has been a comfortable one so far, and maybe we haven’t yet had a true indication of how it performs under pressure. In Martial, though, Mourinho has a player who resembles a new signing, such is the difference from last year. Several of Sir Alex Ferguson’s great title-winning teams contained supersubs—think of Ole Gunnar Solskjaer or, later, Javier Hernández. Martial’s second coming should worry the rest of the league.


The Giants were boosted ahead of Monday’s clash with the Lions as Odell Beckham Jr., the team’s influential wide receiver, looks set to return from injury—and may sign a new contract as well.
The 24-year-old sprained his ankle during the NFL preseason and was expected to miss several weeks due to the injury, but could return for the team's second game.
After missing the 19-3 defeat to the Cowboys last week, Beckham’s status for the game at MetLife Stadium on Monday night remains unclear.
According to The  Washington Post, Beckham looks set to play, having practiced for the first time this week since the injury on August 21. He is said to have moved well while practicing in the red zone.
In Saturday’s final injury report, Beckham was listed as questionable. He will be assessed in the warm-up for the game.
Read more:   The Bengals may be historically bad after brutal loss to Texans
Beckham’s long-term status with the Giants is a talking point as well. The positive news for the Giants is that Beckham and his team are willing to discuss a contract extension during the season, according to  CBS.
Having totaled 288 receptions for 4,122 yards and 35 TDs in his first three seasons, Beckham has proved to be one of the most prolific players in the NFL. He also has proved to be a steal for the Giants, with New York paying him just $1.8 million this season. (That salary will rise to $8.5 million in 2018.)
Beckham’s absence in the Giants' loss to the Cowboys will only strengthen his negotiating position as he reportedly seeks a salary that reflects his value to the team.
Beckham made it clear he was frustrated being on the sidelines. Over the weekend, he tweeted those who were messaging him about their fantasy football teams: “No offense,”  he wrote. “I could care less about ur fantasy teams. This is my Real Life.”


When the NBA season resumes next month and Golden State welcomes the Rockets to Oakland on October 18, Kevin Durant will be part of a defending championship team. In his first year after signing to the Warriors from Oklahoma, Durant won his first NBA ring and now heads into the new campaign with his team as favorites again. Plenty of reasons to be cheerful, you’d think.
So why then has  Durant been sounding off so frequently of late? Earlier this week, he was angered by claims that his public dispute with teammate Stephen Curry over sports brands was a genuine falling out.
Nike athlete  Durant criticized the sportswear brand Under Armour, which uses Curry as its leading sportsman. Curry then felt the need to hit back, telling The  Charlotte Observer that  Durant’s statement “does not ring true at all.”
But  Durant insists that reports of discord are inaccurate, telling  ESPN’s Rachel Nichols that “everybody [is] trying to figure out a way to break us up, so they gonna use that too.”
“We was never in a bad place when I said it [the criticism of Under Armour],” Durant said. “So it was, like, we didn’t have to patch anything else. Me and Steph, we talked about it. He had a conversation with me about it; I understood. We moved on. We the Warriors.”
 Related: Kevin Durant takes no prisoners on the court, or on Twitter
And then there are Durant’s new sneakers. Printed on the insoles of his new shoes are messages from social media trolls from last season after Durant traded the Thunder for Golden State.
Words and phrases such as “snake,” “Can’t beat ’em join ’em,” and “follower” appear on the bottom, with Durant aiming to show that he doesn’t care about his critics and has proved them wrong.
The insoles from the Nike KD 10 “Finals” _@KDTrey5 literally stepping on his haters pic.twitter.com/o6Ppqr50gs
But even ESPN’s ranking of NBA stars is irritating the small forward. Last week, trainer Chris Brickley suggested that ESPN’s ranking of players, such as putting Carmelo Anthony as the 64th best player in the league, was purposely controversial to gain clicks.
It&#39;s funny, I was just reading that several outlets were reporting that ESPN was near collapse as a network. They lost more than 600,000 subscribers in the month of November.......I guess when a media outlet like @espn wants more clicks/views they create controversy. #TheSeasonWillTellTheStory #stayme7o
A post shared by Chris Brickley (@cbrickley603) on Sep 12, 2017 at 4:17pm PDT
Durant clearly agreed. “Death to espn lol,” he commented on the photograph.



LeGarrette Blount doesn’t care about your fantasy football team, and he wants you to know it.
Blount, the former New England Patriots running back, got one touch of the ball in the Philadelphia Eagles’ 27-20 loss to the Kansas City Chiefs at Arrowhead Stadium on Sunday night.
The Eagles’ failure to use Blount in the running game seemed to annoy the veteran less than the reaction to his futility from fantasy football owners.
“I really could care less about all y'all fantasy teams, get outta my mentions with that s***,” Blount tweeted after the game in response to fantasy owners complaining to him.
I really could care less about all y&#39;all fantasy teams, get outta my mentions with that shit. ✌_

Blount’s blowup—which he followed up by humorously quoting a tweet congratulating him on his fantasy performance last season—follows a trend of NFL stars becoming more irked by jibes over their fantasy value.
Odell Beckham Jr., who, with a sprained left ankle, may not play against the Detroit Lions on Monday night, tweeted his displeasure with fantasy football on Saturday.
No offense. I could care less about ur fantasy teams. This is my Real Life. Focusing on gettin healthy and gettin better. 1 day at a time.__

And at the start of September, Green Bay Packers tight end Martellus Bennett posted similar thoughts, saying he was a “real-life football guy.”
I don&#39;t care about your fantasy football team. Thanks! Sincerely real life football guy.

You can understand the players’ frustrations, particularly if they're dealing with injuries. While fantasy football has helped widen the NFL’s popularity and—as was pointed out to Bennett on Twitter—made him and others more marketable faces, there is a tendency among fantasy owners to talk about athletes as if they are pawns in a virtual reality first, human flesh and blood a distant second. Beckham, Bennett, Blount and others probably have enough to worry about getting on the field, and staying healthy, without having thousands of people remind them that they are currently unproductive.
Fantasy football isn’t going anywhere, of course. But expect its protagonists to continue to bite back this season.


Will he stay or will he go? While this question has surrounded LeBron James for much of the offseason and will follow him when the NBA begins play next month, a decision has already been made, according to reports.
Speculation over whether  James, the three-time MVP, will decide to opt out of his contract at Cleveland next summer and become a free agent has been rife. It would be the second time that  James has left the Cavs, after having done so for the Miami Heat in 2010.
The reports and questions will roll into the new season when it begins in October, but  Bleacher Report columnist Peter Vecsey claims that a decision has already been made. Media speculation, he says, can end here: LeBron’s off to  the Lakers.  
Related:   LeBron James scouts L.A. schools as Lakers rumors build
“Accordingly,” Vecsey wrote, “I’m publicly terminating the pandemic of speculation surrounding LeBron James’ playing plans past this season. For months, many in the media declared or composed presumption the Lakers would be the beneficiaries of his talents when he became a free agent July 1, 2018.
“I’m eradicating all conjecture and uncertainty! I’m comfortable now in stating unequivocally, LeBron will leave the Cavaliers a second time and join the Lakers, and return the team to LA Lore status.”
Related:   Isaiah Thomas trolls former teammate, promises championship in first year at Cavs
Regardless of Vecsey’s claim, the speculation will no doubt continue until confirmation comes from the mouth of James, who has been quiet on the topic.
But the idea of a move to Los Angeles has been backed up. In June, The Ringer's Kevin O'Connor reported that James looked set for a move to L.A., but whether that was to join the Lakers or the Clippers was uncertain. This was echoed by Yahoo's Adrian Wojnarowski, who claimed that James's championship win in 2016 "liberated" him to leave Cleveland once again. 
Life with the Cavaliers, meanwhile, doesn’t seem so cheerful for James at the moment. This is partly down to the Cavs having lost the NBA Finals to Golden State, 4-1, but also because of Chairman Dan Gilbert having let go popular General Manager David Griffin.
Also in the offseason, James has seen star guard Kyrie Irving leave for the Boston Celtics in a trade that brought Isaiah Thomas to the Cavs. Life in Cleveland is changing for LeBron, and so he may indeed fancy a change for himself.  


The Manchester clubs continued to set the pace in Week Five of the Premier League, as both United and City recorded comprehensive victories.
United jumps above City by dint of its ability to keep clean sheets. Jose Mourinho’s team has conceded just twice in five league games so far. Here’s how everyone else ranks.
It’s kind of cute, the way Mourinho’s United seems to hold teams at bay for 80 minutes before roaring past them in the last 10. Everton was the latest club to feel United’s wrath. Ronald Koeman’s team put up a decent fight in the second half on Sunday but somehow lost 4-0.
Watford was very obliging at Vicarage Road on Saturday, but Pep Guardiola’s team acquiesced in turn by producing something that approached the sublime. Crystal Palace, without a point or a goal, visits Etihad Stadium on Saturday.
Jamaal Lascelles may not be the best central defender in the Premier League, but he could well be the best captain. That’s three league wins in a row for Newcastle, which visits Brighton and Hove Albion next.
A strange performance from Antonio Conte’s team, which conceded the better chances to Arsenal and lost David Luiz to a straight red card late on. Chelsea travels to Stoke City on Saturday.
Sean Dyche’s team may be the toughest nut in the Premier League to crack. Burnley seems to have sorted out its terrible away form from last season though it is back to home comforts on Saturday when it hosts Huddersfield.
"Home" form at Wembley is costing Tottenham. Mauricio Pochettino’s team is already five points off the two Manchester clubs after a huffing, puffing 0-0 draw against Swansea. Tottenham visits another team ill at ease in its new environment, West Ham United, on Saturday in the early kickoff.
A big jump courtesy of a big win over utterly pathetic Crystal Palace. Arguably, just as important is getting Virgil Van Dijk back playing.
Teams with title aspirations can’t afford to be as wasteful as Liverpool was on Saturday. Up next in the league is a tricky-looking away game at Leicester City.
An instantly forgettable 0-0 draw with West Ham means West Brom hasn’t won in three games. There’s no danger of relegation under Tony Pulis, but also no danger of it doing anything really exciting or hopeful.
Scoring goals looks to be a problem for Huddersfield, which has struck more than once in a game just once in the season so far—on the opening day of the season against Palace. Still, being tough to beat is a virtue in itself and not one you can say about many newly promoted teams.
Arsenal produced the kind of performance against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge that makes you wonder why it has to be so bad, so often, in big games. Still, the top four looks to be a challenge, let alone the title following an uncertain start. Up next it's West Brom at the Emirates on Monday.
It’s possible Stoke is going to be one of those teams that turns up against the league’s giants, then fails to perform against opponents its own size. That will be put to the test when Chelsea visits the Potteries on Saturday.
Leicester missed a great chance to pick up three points at Huddersfield after a brutal run of fixtures at the start of the season. Liverpool visits the King Power Stadium on Saturday.
Swansea becomes the first team in 30 games to stop Tottenham from scoring at home in the league. Scoring goals is a concern for Paul Clement, who has watched Swansea net just two in five league games so far.
Perhaps the most important result for Bournemouth since it was promoted to the Premier League, as a Jermain Defoe goal overcame Brighton on the English south coast. Eddie Howe’s team visits Everton on Saturday.
A big fall, but Marco Silva’s team isn’t as bad as it looked against Manchester City on Saturday.
The game against Newcastle, manager Chris Hughton’s former side, looms large for a Brighton team averaging less than a goal a game.
A second clean sheet in a row is something to savor for Slaven Bilic’s strugglers.
It sounds stupid and crazy to suggest Everton could be a relegation candidate. Doesn’t it?
No points, no goals and games against Manchester City, Manchester United and Chelsea to come. It looks likely that Palace will have zero points from a possible 24 by the middle of October.


Former Celtics teammates Isaiah Thomas and Amir Johnson will start the new basketball season as rivals, and they’re making a show of it on social media.
Thomas was part of the NBA’s most sensational trade of the summer, when Boston confirmed it was taking  Kyrie Irving from the Cavs with Thomas heading to  Cleveland.
Forward Johnson also ended a two-year stay in Boston by joining the Philadelphia 76ers on a one-year deal. The 30-year-old seems pleased with his move, as he posted an image of himself to Instagram on Sunday with the hashtag “#trusttheprocess.”
Thomas, the 28-year-old point guard, commented on the image soon afterward, mocking Johnson. He wrote: “F that process LOL.” This sparked a war of words in which both players made predictions.
#trusttheprocess
A post shared by @iamamirjohnson on Sep 16, 2017 at 3:45pm PDT

Johnson claimed that “the process will be complete before you win a ring,” to which Thomas claimed he would be winning the championship in his first year with the Cavs.
Related:   Isaiah Thomas Calls Out His New Team, Tells Cavaliers He’s Not Damaged
Thomas quickly clarified that there was no real dispute between the two players, commenting: “all love big bro LOL. Don’t switch on me cuz it’s a wrap for u.”
The NBA season restarts next month, and Thomas will be very familiar with the Cavaliers’ first opponent of the season. On October 18, his former team, the Celtics, will be the first opposition Thomas faces in his first competitive match alongside LeBron James, as they take on Irving in his debut.
The first sighting of Irving in his new Celtics jersey came as an animation, as the 28-year-old posted the new NBA 2K18 game on Twitter.
2K18 For the Culture https://t.co/MKEgW9Aqf3



Tony Romo was a really good, almost great, quarterback, for 13 years with the Dallas Cowboys.
He may be an even better football analyst.
Romo was in the booth with Jim Nantz for the CBS broadcast of the New England Patriots’ win over the New Orleans Saints in the Mercedes-Benz Superdome on Sunday evening—just his second game as a color commentator.
He is putting his vast NFL experience to good use already. The Washington Post noted how in the second quarter of the Patriots’ 36-20 victory, Romo predicted that Drew Brees would throw a fade to Brandon Coleman for a touchdown.
Call him Romo or Nostradamus, because Brees indeed threw a fade to No. 16, Coleman, for the TD.
Romo also brings a sense of freshness and fun to the broadcast booth. There was a moment during Sunday evening’s game when he and Nantz were discussing the longevity of Brees and Tom Brady, and how their diets have allowed them to play toward the age of 40 (and beyond it, in Brady’s case). The broadcast cut away to a picture of Romo with a big pile of dessert. It’s that kind of levity that sometimes seems to be missing from Fox Sports’ coverage with Troy Aikman, one of Romo’s great predecessors in a Cowboys jersey.
Undoubtedly Romo is helped by his novelty. It’s going to be much harder to entertain when he’s a season into his career as a color guy, rather than two games. But he’s off to a fine start, which apparently includes an ability to get inside the head of football’s indecipherable genius Bill Belichick.
Late in the fourth quarter, with the game already won, the Patriots did something odd on defense: lining up for a blitz with five rushers on their own ten-yard line. Brees promptly hit Coby Fleener for an ultimately meaningless touchdown, unless you were Belichick or Romo. “Analytics,” Romo explained in quotes reported by SB Nation. “When they [other teams] go through it next week, they’re going to want to say, ‘On what percentage do they play man and rush five?’ He [Belichick] just added to that number right there.”
Romo, the good-to-great QB, looks like he has another potentially more successful career to come.


Of course once anyone began to suggest he might be done, Tom Brady showed he’s a long way from it.
The New England Patriots quarterback, who is the wrong side of 40, don’t you know, carved up a predictably porous New Orleans Saints defense Sunday in the Mercedes-Benz Superdome.
Brady completed 30 of 39 passes for 447 yards and three touchdowns, despite losing pretty much every previously healthy receiving target to injury.
Rob Gronkowski left the game in the third quarter with what was diagnosed as a groin injury, while Chris Hogan was limping by the end of the game. NFL.com reported Phillip Dorsett left with a knee injury, while Rex Burkhead, the running back, suffered a rib injury. With Julian Edelman out for the season with his own knee injury and Danny Amendola still in concussion protocol, the Patriots were down to one fully fit wide receiver by the game’s end.
No one schemes like Bill Belichick, though, and no one uses adversity to increase his aura quite like Brady. He looked much like his old self on Sunday, regularly exploiting the Saints’ inexperienced linebacking corps with short throws for yards after the catch. With the Saints’ defensive front struggling to generate any real pressure all game, Brady had time in the pocket to launch downfield, too. A fourth-quarter missile to Dorsett, thrown into double coverage, was a particular highlight.
Undoubtedly the Patriots were helped by that Saints defense, which is managing to look as bad as it has in the past few seasons under Sean Payton. The Kansas City Chiefs managed to hassle Brady; once it became clear that the Patriots’ offensive line was going to hold up, the Saints were in trouble. Brady also was helped by an improved defensive effort. While the Saints scored 20 points and Brees passed for 356 yards and two touchdowns, seven of those came toward the end of the fourth quarter, when the game was already sealed. Adrian Peterson gained just 26 yards on eight carries, a fact that is almost certain to increase his frustration.
It was only over a week ago that we, right here, suggested Brady’s mediocre Week One performance—under 300 yards passing and no touchdowns—might be evidence that he was in decline. Perhaps he read our story; more likely, Brady went away and studied film and came back seemingly better than ever. So Tom Brady—sorry for ever doubting you.
Click here to watch Brady’s best throws of the game on NFL.com.


The Premier League is beginning to take shape. Jose Mourinho, as he has done so often before, has guided Manchester United to an early lead in the Premier League, with Manchester City and Chelsea just behind.
This weekend, the league enters the fifth weekend of the season. Brighton and Hove Albion, which got its first win of the season on Saturday against West Brom, travelled to lowly Bournemouth on Friday night.
Seven games take place on Saturday with high-flying Watford, fourth in the table, hosting second-place Manchester City at Vicarage Road, while Tottenham looks to get its first league win at Wembley when Swansea City visits.
Super Sunday sees Arsenal travel to Stamford Bridge having beaten  Antonio Conte’s Chelsea in the Community Shield last month and the FA Cup final at the end of last season. The final match of the weekend involves struggling Everton visiting Mourinho’s Manchester United.
Here,  Newsweek  looks at five key talking points ahead of this weekend’s games.
Iceland. The word that will haunt Roy Hodgson for the rest of his career, however long that may be now. There was a suggestion that the defeat at Euro 2016 to a nation of 334,000 people may have been too painful for the former England manager, now 70, to return to the dugout. But he has, and in south London, tasked with saving Crystal Palace from relegation. It is too early for crisis talks at Selhurst Park but Steve Parish, the Palace chairman, was not willing to find out how far the club could fall under former manager Frank de Boer, who was sacked after just 77 days in charge. The Dutchman oversaw just four games in the Premier League, four point-less games that saw Palace score a total of zero goals. Time for a change, and the steady hand of Hodgson takes the reins, with Southampton standing in the way on Saturday.
De Boer may have been the first casualty of Premier League managers, but Slaven Bilic wasn’t expected to be too far behind him. West Ham is 18th in the Premier League having lost its first three games of the Premier League: mullered by Manchester United, then Southampton turned them over, before being embarrassed by Newcastle in a 3-0 defeat. But the noose was loosened on Monday when the Hammers beat newly promoted Huddersfield Town 2-0—and at the club’s London Stadium, which is yet to feel like home let alone a fortress. West Ham is on the road this Saturday, though, travelling to the Midlands to take on Tony Pulis’s West Brom. The pressure may have eased on Bilic, but the points need to keep coming.
Jose Mourinho said a “real legend” was coming back to Old Trafford this Sunday. Wayne Rooney, back in the blue of Everton after 13 years at Manchester United, will be taking on his former club for the first time since his departure this summer. Nostalgia and sentiment will be left at the door, as Rooney and Everton are in need of a return to form. Ronald Koeman’s team is 16th in the Premier League and has conceded eight goals without reply in its last three games. United, meanwhile, is looking to get back to its fine start to the new season. A blip at Stoke City last weekend, drawing 2-2, slowed down Mourinho’s charge, but Everton will be looking to cause more damage.
Mauricio Pochettino hopes that Tottenham’s 3-1 victory over Borussia Dortmund on Wednesday will end talk of a Wembley jinx for his team. But a win against Swansea will make that certain. So far, in the league, Pochettino has seen his side beaten by Antonio Conte’s Chelsea and Burnley's Chris Wood score a late equalizer to deny the first three points at the national stadium. But Spurs are beginning to shine under the arch. On Wednesday, in the Champions League, new signings Davinson Sanchez and Serge Aurier slipped into the team with ease, strengthening the starting XI and, certainly, the squad. With Harry Kane in formidable form, and a victory in midweek, Spurs will feel a greater confidence when Swansea travels to the capital on Saturday.
Arsenal fans, in recent years, rarely return from Stamford Bridge in high spirits. Only once in their last eight visits have they seen their team win, a dramatic and resounding 5-3 victory in 2011 when Robin van Persie scored a hat-trick against Andre Villas-Boas’ Chelsea. Other than that, the record is dire; Arsenal has conceded 13 goals in the last four trips to Stamford Bridge and scored just once. It may be comforting to Arsene Wenger to go into Sunday’s game knowing he has beaten Antonio Conte’s team in the last two games, both at Wembley, in the Community Shield last month and FA Cup final in May. Plus, of course, Alexis Sanchez is back in an Arsenal shirt and scoring, having hit the back of the net in the Europa League on Thursday. He will hope the curse of the Bridge can be broken.


A surprising name sits at 0-1 heading into week two of the 2017 NFL season.
The New England Patriots, heavy favorites to reach, if not win, a third Super Bowl in four years, ran into a Kansas City–shaped wall in Foxborough last Thursday night and lost their opening game.
The Patriots are one of a clutch of notable story lines to watch in week two. Here are the best of them.
Falling to 0-2 is surely unthinkable for the New England Patriots, who host the New Orleans Saints on Sunday at Gillette Stadium.
And yet there are reasons to believe Tom Brady won’t be able to bounce back as springily as he has in the past.
ESPN notes wide receiver Danny Amendola is in concussion protocol following a hit on a punt return in last Thursday night’s loss to the Kansas City Chiefs. The Patriots looked thin even before they lost Amendola, with Julian Edelman out for the season with a knee injury.
Of more concern, especially against the Saints in New Orleans, may be Bill Belichick’s defense. Torn apart for 42 points by Andy Reid’s methodical Chiefs, the Patriots could face Drew Brees without middle linebacker Dont’a Hightower. Hightower missed practice on Wednesday with a sprained knee.
If the Patriots are seeking solace, then the Saints’ defense looked progressively worse against the Minnesota Vikings after a strong start. Plus, Sean Payton seemed to spend a lot of that game arguing with Adrian Peterson. Which is to say that even with identical records at this stage of the season, the Saints have more problems than the Patriots.
With the previously mentioned Patriots already a game back, a window has opened up for teams to steal a march in the AFC. The Chiefs host the Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday at Arrowhead Stadium, while the Pittsburgh Steelers entertain the Vikings and their dominant defense.
The surprising Jacksonville Jaguars, meanwhile, will look to their own defense and the power running of Leonard Fournette against the Tennessee Titans. The Oakland Raiders will surely move to 2-0 at home against the terrible New York Jets, while the Buffalo Bills travel to Carolina to face the Panthers. There could be some unexpected teams at 2-0 atop the AFC by the end of Sunday.
While Elliott’s temporary injunction against his suspension by the NFL remains in place, the star running back is free to play for the Dallas Cowboys.
The NFL is seeking a lifting of the injunction Elliott has been granted while his lawsuit against the suspension for allegedly violating the league’s domestic violence policy progresses through the courts. As reported by the Star-Telegram, on Wednesday the NFL asked Judge Amos Mazzant, the U.S. district judge who granted the injunction, to decide by Thursday whether the injunction should be lifted. If it is, Elliott will be suspended for the remainder of the season.
Either way, Elliott will play on Sunday when the Cowboys visit the Denver Broncos. Brilliant, controversial and crucial to the Cowboys, Elliott is one example of the NFL’s arm-wrestle with morality. His will be a story to follow all season long.
Hurricane Irma prevented the Miami Dolphins from playing in week one against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. That game has been moved to November 19. Instead, Jay Cutler will make his Dolphins debut in Los Angeles against the Chargers.
Cutler enjoyed the best statistical season of his NFL career under Dolphins head coach Adam Gase while the two were together on the Chicago Bears, though he will only go as far as the Dolphins’ shaky offensive line can carry him. The Chargers, who lost a messy game 24-21 to the Broncos in week one, will look to test out Cutler’s toughness following a year out of the game with reigning Defensive Rookie of the Year Joey Bosa.


President Donald Trump sent out a tweet demanding that ESPN, the multimedia giant, “apologize for untruth.”
“ESPN is paying a really big price for its politics (and bad programming),” Trump tweeted on Thursday. “People are dumping it in RECORD numbers. Apologize for untruth!”
The president did not elaborate on his message, but it comes as ESPN is facing pressure over its handling of one of its presenters, Jemele Hill.
Hill, a co-host of ESPN’s SportsCenter, triggered a firestorm of criticism after tweeting on Monday that Trump was a “white supremacist who has largely surrounded himself [with] other white supremacists.” Hill apologized to her employer via Twitter on Thursday, noting she “regretted…painting ESPN in an unfair light.”
So, to address the elephant in the room ... #Facts pic.twitter.com/RTrIDD87ut

Among the fiercest critics was Trump’s communications director, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, who on Wednesday called Hill’s words a “fireable offense.” 
While a report published Thursday by the website ThinkProgress claimed ESPN had attempted to take Hill off the air for a night to allow the controversy to blow over, the network has not heeded Sanders’s words, and Hill remains an employee.
In his tweet, Trump may have been referring to perceived hypocrisy by ESPN over its handling of Hill and another prominent employee, former Major League Baseball pitcher Curt Schilling.
ESPN fired Schilling in April 2016 after apparently mocking North Carolina’s transgender bathroom law in a Facebook post. On Wednesday, Schilling waded into the Hill debate and appeared to compare his behavior with hers. He claimed Hill had not been fired because “Disney and ESPN are fine with liberal racism vs. conservative logic.” Schilling has in the past made clear his conservative political views.
Yahoo Finance had a less conspiratorial take on the issue, noting that Hill had transgressed the company’s policy on political impartiality only once, while Schilling had multiple offenses.
All this likely won’t be enough to appease Trump, whose tweet sounded very much like those the president has used against another bête noire, CNN.


The Cleveland Indians had to endure a wild overtime game Thursday before they made history.
In the 10th inning against the Kansas City Royals at Progressive Field, Jay Bruce ripped a shot down the right-field line for an RBI single and a walk-off victory that was the Indians’ 22nd in succession.
The previous record of 21 straight wins in Major League Baseball had stood since 1935 and belonged to the 1935 Chicago Cubs. The Indians have been particularly severe on the Kansas City Royals and Detroit Tigers, and the playoff-contending Yankees have also come in for punishment.
Here’s the Indians’ streak since August 24 in one handy list.
1. Thursday August 24 vs. Boston Red Sox at Progressive Field. Score: 13-6. Record: 70-56.
2. Friday August 25 vs. Kansas City Royals at Progressive Field. Score: 4-0. Record: 71-56.
3. Saturday August 26 vs. Royals at Progressive Field. Score: 4-0. Record: 72-56.
4. Sunday August 27 vs. Royals at Progressive Field. Score: 12-0. Record: 73-56.
5. Monday August 28 vs. New York Yankees at Yankee Stadium. Score: 6-2. Record: 74-56.
6. Wednesday August 30 vs. Yankees at Yankee Stadium. Score: 2-1. Record: 75-56.
7. Wednesday August 30 vs. Yankees at Yankee Stadium (second game of double-header). Score: 9-4. Record: 76-56.
8. Friday September 1 vs. Detroit Tigers at Comerica Park. Score: 3-2. Record: 77-56.
9. Friday September 1 vs. Tigers at Comerica Park (second game of double-header). Score: 10-0. Record: 78-56.
10. Saturday September 2 vs. Tigers at Comerica Park. Score: 5-2. Record: 79-56.
11. Sunday September 3 vs. Tigers at Comerica Park. Score: 11-1. Record: 80-56.
12. Monday September 4 vs. Chicago White Sox at Guaranteed Rate Field. Score: 5-3. Record: 81-56.
13. Tuesday September 5 vs. White Sox at Guaranteed Rate Field. Score: 9-4. Record: 82-56.
14. Wednesday September 6 vs. White Sox at Guaranteed Rate Field. Score: 5-1. Record: 83-56.
15. Thursday September 7 vs. White Sox at Guaranteed Rate Field. Score: 11-2. Record: 84-56.
16. Friday September 8 vs. Baltimore Orioles at Progressive Field. Score: 5-0. Record: 85-56.
17. Saturday September 9 vs. Orioles at Progressive Field. Score: 4-2. Record: 86-56.
18. Sunday September 10 vs. Orioles at Progressive Field. Score: 3-2. Record: 87-56.
19. Monday September 11 vs. Tigers at Progressive Field. Score: 11-0. Record: 88-56.
20. Tuesday September 12 vs. Tigers at Progressive Field. Score: 2-0. Record: 89-56.
21. Wednesday September 13 vs. Tigers at Progressive Field. Score: 5-3. Record: 90-56.
22. Thursday September 14 vs. Royals at Progressive Field. Score: 3-2. Record: 91-56.



The cramped room in Midtown Manhattan was packed wall-to-wall with YouTubers—a relentlessly cheery bunch—the lot of them excitedly live-streaming, likes and comments bobbing across their screens. 
It was August, and the crowd was previewing the latest product from the NBA 2K video game series—NBA 2K18, which was released Friday to those who pre-ordered—and the event was crowded with elite gamers, social media stars, 2K staffers and, pocked about the room, honest-to-God, in-the-flesh NBA players. Security stood at the front door. Booze flowed from a bar in the back. TVs pinstriped the length of the room, cutting it into even rows. That was the main attraction, with the gamers lining up, jostling through the morass of people to get their turn on the joysticks (all of this, of course, beamed over the internet to 2K devotees). 
In a room full of presumed NBA fans it was somewhat disorienting to see these NBA players—Brooklyn Nets guard D'Angelo Russell, or No. 3 overall pick Jayson Tatum, or Portland Trail Blazers' star C.J. McCollum—move through the place relatively un-bothered. Sure, they posed for a few photos—and yes, one particularly pushy guy inch-wormed his way into a conversation with all of them—but things were relatively calm, a break from the usual onslaught of middle-aged fans stampeding for autographs any time a pro athlete is near. The NBA stars were focused on doing NBA star things—posing for endorsement photos, chatting with press—while the gamers were focused on doing gamer things: hurriedly testing NBA 2K18's new features and describing it, beat by beat, into selfie sticks. 
The scene hints at a larger symbiosis between the NBA itself and 2K, the pre-eminent basketball video game: It's all part of the same machine. The two have grown together, not necessarily in lockstep, but in conjunction. The NBA is more popular than ever and fans now count the days each year until the release of the game. Pro players stress about, and get angry over, their 2K rating. And with each year's iteration, 2K's gameplay edges ever-closer to mirroring the real NBA—that's to be expected, sports games are judged, in part, by their realism. 
Gamers and video games, 2K chief among them, in some ways foretold years ago where the NBA is now. The recent innovations in the league—the explosion of 3-pointers, so-called tanking, the focus on "small ball"—which, combined, represent a sea-change in NBA play—nearly all of these tactics have been employed by 2K players for years. 
Virtual has met reality. 

2K debuted in 1999 on the Sega Dreamcast, a long-dead antique of a system. It has since sold 70 million units, according to the company. It's widely considered the gold standard for modern sports video games, and has benefited from the yearslong absence of NBA Live, the basketball game from giant EA Sports that's finally returned this year to middling reviews.
If you loved basketball growing up in the aughts then you almost definitely played 2K, and the controls—X button to shoot, A to pass, Y to block—are retained in your muscle memory.
"I was obsessed with the game," McCollum told Newsweek at the aforementioned 2K event, as the Portland guard stood to the side of a huddled group of gamers inspecting the demo for 2K18. "I worked out as much as I could and basically hooped all day, played the video game all night, then did it all over again."
But to understand 2K—and sports video games at large—you need to understand there's far more to it than controlling fuzzy players on a court, a la '90s arcade games. There's all different kinds of game modes that allow a user, for instance, to live through a custom-created player's entire career or control every miniscule aspect of a team, such as free agent signings, trades, city relocation, coaching hires, even the price of virtual tickets. For the uninitiated: gone are the arcade days, with sports games more like World of Warcraft or Grand Theft Auto—it's a world inside a game.  
And the gameplay itself grows more realistic ever year. You can call intricate plays. You can watch closely as virtual LeBron James chews on his fingernails just so, exactly as real world James does. 
To achieve this, 2K shuttles in NBA players and top-level talent, then uses motion capture filming to record everything they do on the court. They then tear into all that data—while also studying film of NBA games—and create something as true to life as possible. 
And people care—really care—about the game. Mike Wang, NBA 2K's director of gameplay, said they set a precedent for capturing a player's "signature style" a decade ago and now 2K enthusiasts aren't shy about pointing out if something isn't quite right. 
"The way guys celebrate after a shot. Their pre-game routines. The way they shoot. The way they dribble. All these things, if it’s a little bit off, our fans let us know about it," Wang said.
C.J. McCollum #3 of the Portland Trail Blazers attempts a layup between Jamal Crawford #11, Marreese Speights #5 and Wesley Johnson #33 of the Los Angeles Clippers during the first half at Staples Center on November 9, 2016 in Los Angeles, California.   Harry How/Getty Images
In some circles, elite 2K players are treated like celebrities. A top player at the event in New York told me "everyone knows who I am," and I didn't doubt him. He and his team had won $250,000 playing a video game tournament.
Basketball, both virtual and reality, is on the rise. Franchises are worth more than ever, broadcasting rights cost tens of billions of dollars, arenas are sold out and, importantly, the NBA is built around highly marketable young stars who draw the youngest audience, by far, of the four major American sports. 
"It’s a 365 [day-per-year] thing," said Ronnie Singh, who heads up consumer engagement, social media and digital marketing for 2K. "The NBA itself is doing a really good job at being a 365 league. But we are right alongside that."
Singh might be his given name, but everyone knows him as Ronnie2K. Tall and confident and happy to shake hands, to the hardcore folks, he's as much the face of the game as anyone. Gamers pulled him aside on the street in New York, recognizing him as the Ronnie2K. NBA players give him shit on Twitter when they think their rating is too low. In short: People are engaged. So engaged, Singh, a guy who was a top-10 player in 2K5, is now something of a celebrity with more than 800,000 Twitter followers.
People tend to get invested with a game they grow up with, a game that grew with them. Why else is Pac-Man still around? That in mind, 2K remains popular with NBA players. 
"A lot of guys play 2K, especially younger generation guys, you know, low-20s, mid-20s, even some guys high-20s," McCollum said.
The Boston Celtics' Tatum, a 19-year-old NBA rookie, backed up that assertion. "I think all kids, basketball players, play 2K growing up. I did a lot," he told Newsweek, later adding that now in the "downtime that you do have, video games is what most guys do."
Now, to avoid grizzled sportswriter clichés, this piece is not a massive effort to complain about the me-first attitude of video games that has infected the professional ranks. But video games have, at the very least, likely grown players' obsession with basketball and, on some deeper level, might have afforded them comfort with real-life hoops by ramping up the number of times they saw a pick-and-roll or a perfectly motion-captured, smooth-as-silk jumpshot. 
"The way I would put it is [like] this: When I first got behind the wheel—when I first drove a car during driver’s ed., 15 or 16 years old, for me it had felt like I had did it before, despite never doing it," said Kevin O'Connor, NBA staff writer at The Ringer. "And I think the reason why is because I logged so many hours playing games with cars in it, whether it was Grand Theft Auto, whether it was riding around in a tank in Call of Duty, whether it was Mario Kart. ... It felt like I had done it before."
O'Connor, who tracks the league closely and is great at analyzing the game, said he couldn't know for sure if 2K helped players understand the game, but he "would assume so." The father of De'Aaron Fox, drafted fifth overall this year by the Sacramento Kings, certainly thinks that's the case, and has credited 2K with helping to teach his son the intricacies of high-level basketball.
"He'd play that PlayStation, and he could master it in no time," Aaron Fox told Bleacher Report. "I tell kids if they want to learn something about basketball, go put it on pro mode on 2K and let them play."
DeAaron Fox shows his jacket lining on stage after being drafted fifth overall by the Sacramento Kings during the first round of the 2017 NBA Draft at Barclays Center on June 22, 2017 in New York City.   Mike Stobe/Getty Images
The league Fox and Tatum will enter is fundamentally different than the league LeBron entered back in the early 2000s. Basketball has changed. To put it simply, the NBA has done away with anything inefficient. For the best teams, gone are the days of one guy taking on three defenders (think Jordan and Kobe). Three-pointers (lots and lots of 3-pointers) are en vogue, as are dunks and lay-ups; smaller, versatile players are coveted; and play is increasingly up-tempo, with more open space on the hardwood. Certain teams (like the famous Seven Seconds or Less 2005-'06 Phoenix Suns) have dabbled with this style throughout the years, but it's hard to overstate how widespread and massive the shift in style-of-play has been in the last few seasons. Guys who are seven-feet tall, traditionally the lumbering type, are now firing up 3-pointers without a moment's hesitation.
"There’s always been kind of little previews of what we see today, but, with that said, the way it’s escalated in the last four or five years is really remarkable," O'Connor said. 
But for anybody who played 2K, this shouldn't come as a shock. Hell, these are the hacks we've been using for years. The video game truly began to look truly advanced (and closer to real life) in the mid-2000s, just about when the 2K4 game introduced icons that displayed whether an NBA player was exceptionally good at a certain thing—like a little "3" that indicated the player could shoot from distance—that hovered underneath the player during gameplay. It didn't take long for gamers to realize having a bunch of players with little "3" icons (or icons that indicated they were elite at other things such as defense) helped you win. 
Mitch Goldich, now a writer and social media producer at Sports Illustrated, was just the type of kid to figure out that hack back in the day. He's a self-described sports nerd, the kind of kid who trawled through box scores and rattled off memorized baseball stats at recess. Goldich (who, full disclosure, is a friend I attended journalism school with) had the original 2K on Sega Dreamcast. I asked him about his style of play in the game. 
"I definitely liked shooting threes—I have to say, now we have to go way back, I have been playing basketball video games since I was a very young child," Goldich said. "It is amazing to me that it took until just like the last five, 10 years for the whole league to get crazy about taking threes and dunks and nothing else. Because I made a living on that playing NBA Jam, when I was like 7 years old. And I would just do threes and dunks, nothing else... and I’m sure those tactics carried over [to 2K]."
What Goldich described was effectively the radical strategy the Houston Rockets employed to great success on offense last season, described by SB Nation as "the wildest scheme in basketball analytics." To be clear, it's not like gamers deeply studied complicated stats, as the Rockets did, to arrive at that strategy. Far from it. But in the mid-2000s especially, when 2K looked similar to how it does now but was not yet as complex, you could cheat the system a bit by finding a few stars, then surrounding them with shooters (prescribed positions be damned). And it didn't hurt that it was super entertaining to play that way—chucking up long shots, slamming dunks and whipping passes around the court to find the best possible shot. 
"It’s less fun to have your friends come over on Saturday to take a bunch of mid-range jumpers. That’s not what you do," Goldich said. 
Joseph Chan, a 27-year-old who works in tech in California, hooped in high school and has played 2K for many years. He has long approached the game a lot like Goldich.
"For me it was really fun to get people open, shoot jump shots," he said. "I never played the Kobe [style], I felt like it was harder to do anyways, but generally didn't like it."
In other words: it was more fun to play smart. And just like that, 2K kinda, sorta foretold the modern NBA style of play.
The NBA2K18 likeness of Philadelphia 76er Joel Embiid is pictured.   2K
Outside of a shift in style of play, the other massive, recent innovation in the NBA was losing—and losing with purpose. Sam Hinkie, former general manager of the Philadelphia 76ers, gamed the league's draft system by committing to losing. Hinkie traded veterans for draft picks, ditched high salaries and let the young Sixers lose in order to secure picks toward the top of drafts (teams at the bottom of the standings have the best chances at landing, through a lottery, the top picks to select the best, young players fresh out of college).
I grew up outside of Philadelphia—shouts to Wilmington, Delaware—and it was strange to see my hometown team do the thing I had always done in video games. Again, remember: In 2K you're able to control every last move a team makes. So a losing season in the game passes in a few minutes of simulation, and, if you're willing to wait and maneuver, your patience gives you a stacked team with young talent. In other words, it makes a ton of sense to tank in 2K. 
"People hated what the Sixers did and what Sam Hinkie did: Tanking," O'Connor said. "But it’s like, 'Dude! I was doing that shit when I was 14 years old in Madden (NFL). I was doing that in 2K and NBA Live when I was a teenager.' It's not anything new to do that, to tank and get high draft picks, and increase your assets and be able to open [salary] cap space. But what is new is seeing it happen in real life. So, in a way, seeing how effective tanking could be in a video game kind of makes it so unsurprising that it worked in real life."
And indeed, while the Sixers haven't won anything, they are now stacked with promising young players like Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Dario Saric, Robert Covington and Markelle Fultz. Bad teams have always tried to angle their way to the top of the draft, but not in the radical way Hinkie did it. He entirely abandoned the charade that the team was trying to compete with the top NBA squads. It was a uniquely bold action from an actual GM. But 2K, that's a different story—in video games you have infinite chances to fix things and there's no real consequences. So you take risks. 
"In the world there are high stakes because there are high salaries and people lose jobs and it affects their families and their career," said Sports Illustrated's Goldich. "Whereas when you’re playing video games you can throw the controller and shut down everything if things don’t go well... You can be more aggressive and have fun…messing around in a low-stakes environment you might discover something that actually works."
Hinkie didn't get to see if his strategy would actually work—he was effectively forced out in 2016. He remains a Philadelphia folk hero, however, and has inspired fans to proclaim things like "Hinkie Died For Our Sins." 
Pictured is the 2K18 likeness of Paul George.   2K
2K and the NBA will never be one-and-the-same, even if gamers predicted the brand of basketball that sparked a revolution in the game. At the end of the day, a video game is a video game, no matter how good the graphics or gameplay. It can imitate the thing but could never be the thing. That became clear to me when the Trail Blazers' McCollum described frustration over not being able to do his real life moves in a video game—pretty much the exact opposite of the common person's complaint.
But the game and the league, at least for now, are inextricably entwined. The league's stunning popularity helps 2K, and 2K's stunning popularity helps the league.
That much was clear in that cramped, sweaty room in New York City back in August. Video games aren't for the pimply, isolated basement-dwellers anymore; they're for kids with thousands (and thousands and thousands) of people who follow their every move.
I talked with that guy who pulled in $250,000 playing 2K in a hallway outside the preview event for 2K18. It shocked me; he talked just like a pro athlete. It was all careful bursts about working hard. "I took a lot of losses," Artreyo Boyd, aka Dimez, said. "But ultimately, that made me better. In order to get to where I’m at now, you have to play the better people."
The 23-year-old talked about his virtual team shooting a lot threes and priding itself on defense that earns quick, open shots. I told him that sounded a lot like how the Golden State Warriors play. Dimez bristled. The Warriors had just beaten his favorite team in the NBA Finals.
"Our play style, of course," he conceded. "But I’m a Cavs fan, man. I’m from Cleveland."
At his core, Dimez remained anchored to the authentic thing, the flesh-and-blood teams. Yes, he's one of the best 2K players in the world: He's won tens of thousands of dollars, and he's set to play in the NBA's eSports league, where real NBA teams draft virtual 2K players. But he remains a fan, imagining to life a virtual NBA with buttons and joysticks. As we talked, those honest-to-God NBA stars were just inside. Dimez could never be that—but damn if he hasn't come close to their world. And hasn't that always been the point?


Deshaun Watson passed for 125 yards and had a 49-yard run for a touchdown in his first career start on his 22nd birthday, lifting the Houston Texans to a 13-9 victory over the Cincinnati Bengals on Thursday night at Paul Brown Stadium.
DeAndre Hopkins had seven catches for 73 yards for the Texans (1-1), who avoided their first 0-2 start since 2015.
The Texans relied heavily on their rushing attack, with 168 yards, including Watson’s 67. Lamar Miller had 61 yards on 18 carries.
Cincinnati, meanwhile, has not scored a touchdown in eight quarters to begin the season. It’s the 15th time the Bengals have started 0-2, which is an ominous sign for the team, considering it has never reached the playoffs after losing two to start the season.
The mood after the game reflected the result.
“We suck,” Dre Kirkpatrick, the Bengals' 27-year-old cornerback said, according to  Fox Sports' Jeremy Rauch. A Bengals player was  also overheard shouting, “We just lost to the worst team in the league.”
Cincinnati quarterback Andy Dalton was coming off one of the worst performances of his career in last week’s 20-0 loss to the Baltimore Ravens, when he threw four interceptions. He didn’t throw an interception Thursday night but was off-target for much of the game, going 20 of 35 for 224 yards.
“If you’re going to win in this league, you have to score touchdowns,” he  said.
Watson earned the start after passing for 102 yards with a TD and an interception after taking over for Tom Savage in the second half of last week’s loss to Jacksonville. Watson was 15 of 24 and was sacked three times Thursday but maintained his composure throughout.
The teams traded field goals in the second half as Ka‘imi Fairbairn’s 42-yarder with 2:01 left gave Houston a 13-9 lead. Cincinnati’s last drive ended when Dalton threw incomplete on 4th-and-9 from his own 44.
There were a combined nine punts in the first half.
Cincinnati rookie wide receiver John Ross’s first career touch looked to be a 12-yard gain on an end-around, but he fumbled, and Jadeveon Clowney returned it 48 yards to the Bengals' 20-yard line.
That led to a 26-yard field goal by Fairbairn to put Houston ahead 3-0.
After 15 scoreless possessions to begin the season, the Bengals finally got on the board with a 39-yard field goal by Randy Bullock, set up by A.J. Green’s 50-yard catch.
Later in the second quarter, Watson was drilled by Geno Atkins for an 11-yard sack, one of three sacks for the Bengals in the half.
Two plays later, Watson scrambled on third-and-15, broke two tackles and raced 49 yards for a touchdown, putting the Texans ahead 10-3.
Cincinnati drove 64 yards in 48 seconds just before halftime but was forced to settle for a 29-yard Bullock field goal, making the score 10-6.


Could Manchester United move for Mesut Özil?
That is the claim from The Sun newspaper and SportBild in Germany. Both outlets note that German national Özil, 28, is out of contract at Arsenal in the summer of 2018 and has so far rejected all of the north London club’s attempts to sign him to a new deal.
The Sun claims Arsenal offered Özil £8.1 million a season in salary to remain at Emirates Stadium, but he appears determined to move on from the club he signed for in 2013 from Real Madrid.
Özil will be free to sign where he wants next summer, and that could mean a possible reunion with José Mourinho at United. Özil played for Mourinho at Real between 2010 and 2013.
Mourinho was searching this summer for a left-sided attacker to complement United’s attack. The United manager looked at Ivan Perišić of Inter Milan and was even linked with Real winger Gareth Bale, but he ended the summer transfer window without having filled that position. Özil, predominantly left-footed, would represent a significant addition in a position of need for United.
Arsenal could have sold Alexis Sanchez to Manchester City this summer for £60 million but chose to keep the Chile striker at the club for one more season. Sanchez, too, is out of contract in summer 2018. According to The Guardian, he has made a decision on his future and will sign for City as a free agent.
Real would like Sanchez, but as that possibility recedes, head coach Zinedine Zidane has identified several new strikers he would like to sign, according to reports in Spain. Robert Lewandowski and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang of Borussia Dortmund and Andrea Belotti of Torino are all targets for Zidane, according to Don Balon, as Real seeks to move on from the celebrated era of Karim Benzema. The French striker has a hamstring injury and Zidane wants a replacement for Alvaro Morata, who departed for Chelsea in the summer.


He was the player Antonio Conte had wanted at Stamford Bridge ever since he arrived as manager of Chelsea last summer. Last month, when Conte was finally on the verge of bringing him to west London, one phone call changed all that.
Having played under Conte at Juventus, Fernando Llorente was a striker the Italian manager knew he could rely on; one who would fit in at  Chelsea as an experienced back-up to its new, £60 million ($81 million) prize asset: Álvaro Morata, the 24-year-old signed from Real Madrid.
But then Tottenham, and Mauricio Pochettino in particular, came into the equation. “At the very last minute, Pochettino called me and convinced me [to join Tottenham]. The Tottenham project is impressive. They have done very well in the last few years, and I think I fit very well with this project,” Llorente said, as quoted by the  Daily Mail.
Related:   Chelsea Misses Out On £50 Million Target, Manchester United Now Favorite
“I think I can help them a lot,” the 32-year-old former Swansea striker added. “It is clear that Pochettino played a very important role in the decision. I have known him since he was playing in Spain.
“There is even a nice anecdote because I made my first team debut [with Athletic Bilbao] against him at San Mamés. He was at the end of his playing career, and I was at the beginning of mine. Then he was the Espanyol manager, and I faced him several more times. Now I play under him at Tottenham, and I really want to give my best.”
Llorente joins Harry Kane in what has become a lethal Tottenham team with a strong depth to it, while over in west London Conte will now rely on the 23-year-old Belgian Michy Batshuayi when Morata is rested.
Llorente made his debut for Spurs in the 3-1 win over Borussia Dortmund on Wednesday, and is likely to be involved in the squad for the visit of his former club, Swansea, to Wembley on Saturday.


José Mourinho got angry after Ander Herrera invited a friend with close links to Celta Vigo to Manchester United’s training ground ahead of the pair's Europa League clash last season, according to British media.
The Spanish midfielder, who was voted  United’s player of the season for the last campaign, has made just one start in the Premier League so far this season.
The 28-year-old invited a visitor, said to have links with Celta Vigo, to  United’s Carrington training base ahead of the Europa League semifinal, according to source quoted by the  Daily Mail. Manchester United won the game 1-0.
Mourinho, who guided United to three trophies last season, is said to have recognized the person and ordered Herrera into his office to discuss the problem.
Herrera started the game against Stoke on Saturday, but Mourinho will need to rely once again on the former Athletic Bilbao player in the coming weeks.
Related:   Manchester United Hit By Major Injury Problem, Could Be Without Star For Eight Weeks
In United’s return to the  Champions League, a 3-0 win over FC Basel on Tuesday, Mourinho had to withdraw captain Paul Pogba after just 19 minutes. The French midfielder left the stadium on crutches and could be out for up to six weeks.
Mourinho has already said he has a good depth to his squad, with Herrera being one of the players he may have to call upon with Pogba sidelined for a possible eight games.
“Squads are for this,” Mourinho said Tuesday night, as quoted by ESPN. “Squads are for injuries, squads are for suspensions. So if no Paul for Sunday, we have [Ander] Herrera, we have [Michael] Carrick, we have [Marouane] Fellaini and we have [Nemanja] Matić. We don't cry.”
The first test without Pogba comes Sunday, when Everton is the visitor to Old Trafford. Wayne Rooney will return for the first time since returning to the Toffees, while Mourinho will look to keep Manchester United at the top of the Premier League following a rampant start to the season with 10 points from a possible 12.


Rumors are growing about LeBron James heading to the Lakers next summer after he and his wife scouted a school in Los Angeles this week, according to reports.
On Tuesday,  James spent time on the court with a basketball team from Notre Dame High School in  L.A. while his wife, Savannah, got a tour of the grounds,  TMZ reported.
While James may have been innocently surprising a group of aspiring athletes, some believe it was part of the  James family’s planning for the future.
The 32-year-old can opt out of his contract with the Cleveland Cavaliers next summer, and  the Lakers have been seen as a smart fit, given that he owns a home in Brentwood.
The report suggests that the couple were looking at private schools in the area for their 12-year-old son, Bronny.
James’s future with the Cavs is far from certain. With the team losing the NBA Finals to Golden State this summer, the star was reportedly irritated by the firing of Cavs General Manager David Griffin.
Related: LeBron James agent to the Lakers: ‘Let’s talk’
He then saw the team weakened as  Kyrie Irving was traded to the Boston Celtics. Next summer, James can leave if he wishes, and the Miami Heat and Houston Rockets have been suggested as possible destinations.
In July, reports suggested James’s agent, Rich Paul, has been in talks with the Lakers, which sparked speculation over whether an agreement had already been put in place.
USA Today reported earlier in the summer that James was frustrated at how passive the Cavs’ front office had been during the offseason. James had expected the team to be more aggressive in attracting free agents.
All may have gone quiet in Cleveland, but James’s presence in L.A. will continue to fuel speculation over his next move.


The UFC stripped Jon Jones of the light heavyweight championship title Wednesday following his positive drug test and reinstated Daniel Cormier as champion.
Jones tested positive for a steroid prior to his July 29 title fight against Cormier, which he won in a third-round TKO.
The second sample from Jones’s failed test also came back positive Tuesday and the Cormier fight was subsequently ruled a “no contest” by the California State Athletic Commission.
Jones, 30, was previously banned for a year after failing a doping test in the run-up to a title fight against Cormier in July, 2016.
He was originally stripped of the title in 2015 following a hit-and-run incident. As a repeat offender, he faces a suspension of up to four years.
Read more:   Tim Hague’s Death Raises Questions For Combat Sports
Cormier, speaking on UFC Tonight, said he was unsure whether to accept the belt but was convinced by Dana White, the president of UFC.
He said: “I talked to Andy Foster (Executive Director of the California State Athletic Commission) and I was like, 'Man, you know, I lost. I lost the fight.' As a competitor, that's how I felt. Then Dana White called me today and he said, 'If it's a No Contest, then the fight didn't happen.'”
“He said, 'If one of you guys would have missed weight [and] he would have won the fight, you still would have kept the belt. He said, 'because of that the championship is getting returned to you, the fight is a No Contest. If he cheated, he could not have fought and cheated and still won the fight.”


The Boston Red Sox ejected four people from Fenway Park on Wednesday night after a banner reading “Racism is as American as baseball” was draped over one of the stands.
The sign appeared during the middle of the fourth inning of the Red Sox’ 7-3 loss to the Oakland Athletics, according to the The Boston Globe, in the front row of Section Six of the “Monster Seats” positioned behind Fenway Park’s famous “Green Monster” wall.
The newspaper reported that the sign was visible for around two minutes before security personnel intervened and removed two women and two men between the ages of 25 and 30 from the stadium.
“We are a group of white anti-racist protestors,” the fans said in a statement to The Washington Post. “We want to remind everyone that just as baseball is fundamental to American culture and history, so too is racism. White people need to wake up to this reality before white supremacy can truly be dismantled. We urge anyone who is interested in learning more or taking action to contact their local racial justice organization.”
In its own statement, the Red Sox said the fans had “violated” the club’s policy on “affixing signs to the ballpark.”
 
Statement from @RedSox regarding tonight&#39;s banner incident on the Green Monster. pic.twitter.com/u7ynJmvcod
 

In May, the Red Sox apologized to the Baltimore Orioles’ Adam Jones after the outfielder was abused with racist slogans and had peanuts thrown at him. Jones told USA Today he had been “called the n-word a handful of times.”
“It’s unfortunate that people need to resort to those type of epithets to degrade another human being,” Jones said at the time. “I’m trying to make a living for myself and for my family.”
Sam Kennedy, the Red Sox president, made a public apology to Jones and said: “No player should have an object thrown at him on the playing field, nor be subjected to any kind of racism at Fenway Park."


ESPN host Jemele Hill has apologized to the network for calling Donald Trump a “white supremacist” on social media, but not to the president.
In a Twitter exchange on Monday,  Hill, a co-host on  ESPN’s SportCenter, described Trump as a “white supremacist who has largely surrounded himself [with] other white supremacists.”
The network released a statement the following day, distancing itself from Hill’s words. “We have addressed this with Jemele and she recognizes her actions were inappropriate,” the statement said.
On Wednesday night, Hill returned to Twitter to address the “elephant in the room.”
“My comments on Twitter expressed my personal beliefs,” she wrote. “My regret is that my comments and the public way I made them painted ESPN in an unfair light. My respect for the company and my colleagues remains unconditional.”
Related:   ESPN Apologizes After Host Jemele Hill Calls Donald Trump a White Supremacist
Donald Trump is a white supremacist who has largely surrounded himself w/ other white supremacists.

Trump is the most ignorant, offensive president of my lifetime. His rise is a direct result of white supremacy. Period.

He has surrounded himself with white supremacists -- no they are not &quot;alt right&quot; -- and you want me to believe he isn&#39;t a white supremacist?

ESPN released its statement via its public relations Twitter account Tuesday, condemning the words of Hill.
ESPN Statement on Jemele Hill: pic.twitter.com/3kfexjx9zQ

Hill did, however, receive plenty of support on social media. NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick, the first athlete to take a knee during the American national anthem to protest police violence against black people, posted to Hill.
“We are with you @jemelehill,” he wrote.
We are with you @jemelehill ✊_



With the exception of Liverpool, Premier League teams enjoyed fine starts to their Champions League campaigns this week.
Alone among the five, Liverpool failed to win. Jurgen Klopp watched his team draw with Sevilla at Anfield the night after bitter rival Manchester United had celebrated its own return to European football’s elite competition with an easy victory.
Here is how all the Premier League teams involved in the competition rated.
On its return to the Champions League following a two-year absence, United encountered a supine opponent in the Swiss champion FC Basel.
United got goals from Marouane Fellaini, Romelu Lukaku and Marcus Rashford at Old Trafford to make sure it heads Group A after one game. Fellaini’s goal, though, may have come with a slightly bitter aftertaste for Jose Mourinho, who lost Paul Pogba to a hamstring injury after just 19 minutes. Fellaini proved a capable replacement but United will feel Pogba’s absence keenly.
Next up: A trip to CSKA Moscow on September 27. Win that, and Mourinho can feel confident of topping the group.
Rating: 7/10. United brushed Basel aside but Pogba’s injury should keep a lid on any overexuberance.
That Antonio Conte could rest several players against the Azerbaijani league champion and still come away with a 6-0 win is perhaps a hint in a long line of them to UEFA that the Champions League group stage requires a revamp.
Still, Chelsea did what it had to and then some more to top Group C after the first round of matches. Conte will have been heartened by a goal off the subsitutes’ bench for Tiemoue Bakayoko, and a 32-minute cameo from Eden Hazard. But this really was the entree before the meaty main courses to come.
Next up: Conte’s team visits Atletico Madrid, which drew 0-0 with A.S. Roma on Tuesday, on September 27.
Rating: 8/10. Terrible opposition but Chelsea already has a two-point advantage in the group and pragmatically, that is all that matters.
Liverpool should have beaten Sevilla at Anfield on Wednesday evening, of that there seems little question or doubt. Jurgen Klopp’s team outshot the La Liga side 24-7, according to BBC Sport, and yet familiar problems stopped it from beginning Group E with a win. Vibrant in the first half following a horrible mistake from Dejan Lovren, Liverpool allowed a 72nd-minute equalizer from Joaquin Correa. In the easiest group of all the English teams Liverpool should still progress to the knockout rounds. But it must find a way of cutting out defensive lapses.
Next up: A trip to Spartak Moscow on September 26.
Rating: 6/10. In this group, a home draw against the only other strong team is hardly disastrous. But Liverpool will probably now need to beat Sevilla away to top the group and that will not be easy.
From the time John Stones scored the first of his two goals two minutes into the game at De Kuip in Rotterdam on Wednesday, there was precisely zero danger of Manchester City leaving the Netherlands with anything but a winning start to Group F. Sergio Aguero and Gabriel Jesus also showed further signs of forming a scary partnership in attack.
Next up: City hosts Shakhtar Donetsk at Etihad Stadium on September 26. The Ukrainians defeated Napoli in Kharkiv on Wednesday.
Rating: 8/10. In its second season under Pep Guardiola, City looks ready to contend for the Champions League.
Spurs came out on top on a strange, frantic and entertaining evening at Wembley mostly thanks to the growing influence of Harry Kane. While Borussia Dortmund dominated possession and had at least one goal from Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang incorrectly disallowed, Kane bullied the Dortmund defense all night en route to two fine goals.
Next up: Tottenham travels to Apoel Nicosia on September 26. The Cypriots lost to Real Madrid 3-0 at Santiago Bernabeu on Wednesday.
Rating: 8/10. With Real Madrid lying in wait, Tottenham simply had to get off to this kind of fast start.


Manchester United’s Paul Pogba could be out for up to six weeks after suffering a hamstring injury against FC Basel in the Champions League on Tuesday, according to reports.
Pogba, the  United captain for the 3-0 win at  Old Trafford, had to be removed after just 19 minutes, and was seen hobbling away from the ground on crutches.
But the 24-year-old midfielder may be set for a lengthy stint on the sidelines as  the BBC reports that Pogba could be out for up to six weeks, which would see him miss eight games.
Jose Mourinho would be missing his most expensive signing for key games against Everton and Liverpool in the Premier League, and a trip to CSKA Moscow in the Champions League.
Related:   Jose Mourinho Makes Bizarre Criticism of Manchester United Players
Here is the full list of games Pogba could be absent for:
17th—Everton
20th—Burton Albion (EFL Cup)
23rd—Southampton
27th—CSKA Moscow (UCL)
30th—Crystal Palace
14th—Liverpool
18th—Benfica (UCL)
21st—Huddersfield Town
Mourinho, who is in his second season at Old Trafford and has guided United to the top of the table after four games in the Premier League, says he’s not too concerned due to his squad’s depth.
“Squads are for this,” Mourinho said on Tuesday night, as quoted by  ESPN. “Squads are for injuries, squads are for suspensions. So if no Paul for Sunday, we have [Ander] Herrera, we have [Michael] Carrick, we have [Marouane] Fellaini and we have [Nemanja] Matic. We don't cry.”
A player Mourinho doesn’t have this season is Wayne Rooney, who played for United for 13 years and will make his return to Old Trafford with Ronald Koeman’s Everton on Sunday.


December 9, 2014, was the last time Liverpool played a group stage match in the Champions League. Steven Gerrard hit a late equalizer but it wasn’t enough to save Brendan Rodgers’ team from elimination, and the 1-1 draw at Anfield against FC Basel saw Liverpool finish third in Group B and exit the competition with just one win in six games.
Three years on, Gerrard sits in the comfortable, modern studios of BT Sport as a pundit while Rodgers saw his Celtic team lose 5-0 to Paris Saint-Germain Tuesday night.
It is now the turn of  Jurgen Klopp, the charismatic, affable German, to lead  Liverpool onto Europe’s biggest stage. But there will be no easing back into the competition, as Liverpool’s first game is Sevilla, which beat  Liverpool in the Europa League final last year.
Klopp looks set to reintroduce Brazilian playmaker  Philippe Coutinho to the team on Wednesday night, after a turbulent summer in which the 25-year-old was denied a move to Barcelona.
Read More:   Jose Mourinho Makes Bizarre Criticism Of Manchester United Players
The teams are due to kick off at 2.45 E.T. and the game will be shown on Fox Deportes, while also being live streamed at  fuboTV.
This is only the fifth time Sevilla has made it into the Champions League, but the team has a good track record in the competition, having advanced to the knockout stage in three of four years.
Eduardo Berizzo’s team had to fight for its place in the group stage, beating Turkish team Istanbul Basaksehir 4-3 at the qualifying stages.
Liverpool, meanwhile, come into the game off a poor result at the weekend, beaten 5-0 by Manchester City in what was Klopp’s worst defeat in management since 2006.


When Lonzo Ball was drafted by the Los Angeles Lakers this summer, Magic Johnson struggled to hide his excitement. To him, the capture of Ball was the crucial moment that would set the Lakers on a path to contending.
In June,  Johnson, the team's president of basketball operations, described Ball as the “new face of the Lakers,” he compared  Ball to himself, saying they had the same “  basketball IQ.” But  Ball isn’t the only rookie who has Johnson buzzing this summer.
“I’ll tell you, the steal of the draft is going to be Kyle Kuzma,” Johnson told  ESPN. “The young man can shoot the basketball, he also can put it down on the floor and create for himself or for his teammates.”
Kuzma, the 22-year-old small forward from Utah, was the Brooklyn Nets' 27th overall pick and was traded with Brook Lopez to the Los Angeles Lakers in exchange for D'Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov. He has already spoken about how much he is looking forward to working with Ball after the two had their first taste of playing in Lakers jerseys in the summer league.
Read More:   ESPN Apologizes After Host Jemele Hill Calls Donald Trump a White Supremacist
“It was a great experience being able to play in front of the country, allowing people to see my game,” Kuzma told  Clutch Points. “You know, just for me to go out there and play the way I did was pretty tremendous. It’s a credit to my work ethic and how hard I work on my game.
“I like to score the ball, and [Lonzo] likes to pass, so me and him are a good duo because of that. He finds me on the break, and I finish baskets so he can get assists,” he added.
Kuzma was as effusive about Johnson, explaining how he was feeding from the rich experience of the five-time NBA champion and three-time league MVP.
“It’s great,” Kuzma said. “Magic is a legend, so anytime you get an opportunity to talk to a legend like Magic it’s great. He has so much knowledge about the game, and it’s really fun to learn from him.”


ESPN has issued an apology after one of its hosts, Jemele Hill, described President Trump as a “white supremacist” on social media.
Hill, a co-host on the network's SportsCenter, was involved in an exchange on Twitter on Monday in which she labeled Trump a “white supremacist who has largely surrounded himself [with] other white supremacists.”
ESPN was quick to distance itself from Hill’s words, releasing a statement on Tuesday saying the tweets “do not represent the position” of the network. It said Hill had been spoken to and claimed that she “recognizes her actions were inappropriate.”
Donald Trump is a white supremacist who has largely surrounded himself w/ other white supremacists.
Trump is the most ignorant, offensive president of my lifetime. His rise is a direct result of white supremacy. Period.
He has surrounded himself with white supremacists -- no they are not &quot;alt right&quot; -- and you want me to believe he isn&#39;t a white supremacist?
 
ESPN released a statement on Tuesday from its public relations Twitter account that condemned the words of Hill.
 
ESPN Statement on Jemele Hill: pic.twitter.com/3kfexjx9zQ
 
Hill has received plenty of support on the social media website, however. Colin Kaepernick, the NFL quarterback who was the first athlete to take a knee during the American national anthem to protest police violence against black people, posted a message backing Hill.
We are with you @jemelehill ✊_
Former basketballer Reggie Miller, who played for the Indiana Pacers for 18 years, also supported Hill on Twitter, writing: “I’m on Team @jemelehill…”


Jose Mourinho accused his Manchester United team of playing “PlayStation football” Tuesday night despite beating FC Basel 3-0 in the club’s return to the Champions League.
Marouane Fellaini opened the scoring for  United in the first half after coming on for the injured Paul Pogba, while his compatriot Romelu Lukaku continued his fine goalscoring form in the second half.
Mourinho had more to be pleased about when Marcus Rashford came off the bench to score on his Champions League debut, but the  Portuguese coach had a word of caution for his players at the final whistle.
“After 2-0 I think everything changed and we stopped to play, stopped to think, stopped to play seriously,’ Mourinho said, as quoted by the  Daily Mail. “We stopped to make the right decisions on the pitch and we could put ourselves in trouble.
“Bad decisions, fantasy football, PlayStation football, tricks and when you stopped to play as a team and when you stopped to play seriously I don't like and you gamble a little bit.
“The players probably felt that the game was under control with the 2-0 but football is football and you have to respect your opponent.”
Related:   Jose Mourinho’s last-ditch attempt to sign Chelsea star on deadline day
Pogba, who captained United on the night, was forced off after just 19 minutes with a hamstring injury, and left Old Trafford on crutches, according to  ESPN.
Mourinho said he was yet to find out the severity of the injury but was not too concerned due to the depth of his squad ahead of Sunday’s visit from Everton in the Premier League.
He added: “So if no Paul for Sunday, we have [Ander] Herrera, we have [Michael] Carrick, we have Fellaini and we have [Nemanja] Matic.”


The first week of the 2017 NFL season has been a little underwhelming thus far. It was fun to watch the Chiefs upset the Patriots on Thursday night, but Sunday didn't deliver many memorable games. The Jets and Giants looked terrible. The Falcons and Steelers squeaked out wins against inferior opponents. The Ravens, Jaguars and Panthers turned in impressive wins. The Colts put in a solid early-season bid for Worst Team in the League, getting drubbed by the formerly lowly Rams, 46-9. Ouch.
Related: The 4 best NFL Week 1 Celebrations
But Week 1 isn't over quite yet. There are still two more games to be played as part of ESPN's Monday Night Football doubleheader. The Minnesota Vikings will host the New Orleans Saints at 7:10 p.m. ET, and the Denver Broncos will host the San Diego Chargers at 10:20 p.m. ET. Both games will air on ESPN and will be available to stream on the WatchESPN app. It's a lot of football for a single evening.
The most notable story line from the first game is Adrian Peterson's return to Minnesota. The Vikings parted ways with the future Hall of Famer earlier this year after he missed most of 2016 due to injury. The Saints signed him to a two-year deal in April, but his role with his new team is yet to be determined. Now 32, Peterson is not likely to be the workhorse he once was for the Vikings. To replace him, the Vikings drafted Flordia State standout Dalvin Cook in the second round of the 2017 draft. He has a lot to live up to, though: Ten years ago, when Peterson was a rookie, he rushed for 1,341 yards and 12 touchdowns.
The Broncos and Chargers are AFC West rivals, and this opening-weekend contest will be crucial if either team wants to keep pace with the Raiders and Chiefs, who are both 1-0 and look to be two of the best teams in the AFC. It also will be the Chargers' first game since moving just more than 100 miles up the coast from San Diego to Los Angeles. Though the Broncos lost defensive coordinator Wade Phillips to the Rams, both teams have strong defenses, so this could be a low-scoring affair. Just what everyone wants from a game that will run well beyond midnight on the East Coast. If you're a displaced Broncos or Chargers fan, good luck at work on Tuesday.


The National Football League is set up to ensure, or at least attempt, some kind of parity among its 32 teams.
Revenue sharing, a salary cap and floor, the draft… All are measures that should mean fans don’t lose interest in a team that bottoms out for year after year after miserable year.
It doesn’t always work, of course. The New England Patriots have managed to override the system for the past 17 years with a genius coach and a once-in-a-generation quarterback. The Patriots have won the AFC East for the past eight seasons, a time span including two Super Bowl victories and six AFC Championship games.The Cleveland Browns, meanwhile, have endured losing seasons every year since 2007. The Browns haven’t been to the playoffs since losing to the Steelers in the Wild Card round in 2002. The Browns have been so bad for so many years it is a testament to the doughtiness of anyone who still turns up at FirstEnergy Stadium.
Something happened on the first weekend of the 2017 season, though, to suggest that many of the NFL’s basement dwellers may experience long-awaited renaissances this season. Here is how the league’s worst franchises from last season got on.
Rookie quarterback DeShone Kizer was solid on his NFL debut, completing 20 of 30 passes for 222 yards. Kizer was hit too often, though, and sacked seven times by the Steelers defense. Still, the Browns were in the game against the AFC’s second-strongest team until late in the fourth quarter.
The Bills got 110 yards rushing from LeSean McCoy, and a dominant defense held the Jets to 187 yards passing and 12 points in Buffalo Sunday. Any praise for the Bills must be tempered with “Yes, but they were facing the Jets.” But strong running from McCoy and that defense could have the Bills at least in contention for a Wild Card past October.
Jacksonville Jaguars
Leonard Fournette and Chris Ivory could be one of the better running-back tandems in the league. The Jaguars ran rookie Fournette 26 times for 100 yards and chased Houston Texans quarterback Tom Savage hard enough that Bill O’Brien was forced to put in his own rookie, Deshaun Watson, in Savage’s place. Whisper it, but the Jaguars could actually win a fairly appalling AFC South.
Speaking of the ineptitude of the AFC South, the Rams piled up 46 points against the Indianapolis Colts as Jared Goff finally won an NFL game. Without Andrew Luck, the Colts are pretty much redundant, so any prognostications on the Rams’ season ahead can wait. But Goff did look pretty good.
Next.
Kyle Shanahan may very well be an offensive genius, but he may need to be a magician to win with Brian Hoyer under center.
OK, so the Jets and 49ers still look really bad. But this was a pretty good weekend for Roger Goodell, at least in terms of the overall parity of the league. It even started with the Patriots getting blown out, which may give Goodell more than one reason to smile.


Manchester United dropped its first points of the new Premier League season on Saturday in a 2-2 draw with Stoke City, hours after Manchester City had demolished Liverpool 5-0 at Etihad Stadium.
Those results led to a shift in Newsweek’s power rankings, with City vaulting United at the top if not in the league itself. At the bottom, three Premier League teams remain winless, while Watford continues to impress in the top half. Read on to see how the rankings shake down with one game to play in week 4.
Sure, Sadio Mané was probably unlucky to be sent off for kicking City goalkeeper Ederson in the face, a decision that ultimately changed the game. But City had to be good enough to capitalize and they did so in rampant manner, with Gabriel Jesus and Leroy Sané filling their boots. This was a statement win with a caveat that may be forgotten in time, if not by Liverpool supporters. Next up for City, Feyenoord away in the Champions League on Wednesday.
United remains unbeaten, though it conceded its first two goals of the Premier League season against a Stoke City team performing above expectations through four games. Phil Jones’s mistake that allowed Eric Choupo-Moting to head Stoke’s equalizer in the 2-2 draw at the Bet365 Stadium was out of character, as was Eric Bailly’s error for Choupo-Moting’s first goal. In time, though, this may look like a good point gained. United entertains FC Basel at Old Trafford in the Champions League Tuesday.
Antonio Conte’s team was tested against Leicester at Stamford Bridge but came through unscathed, and already that opening-weekend defeat to Burnley seems a long time ago. If Alvaro Morata keeps scoring, Chelsea will be in the title race once again. Chelsea faces Qarabag at home in the Champions League Tuesday, before the big Premier League contest with Arsenal Sunday at Stamford Bridge.
This is now a seriously impressive start from Marco Silva at Watford, which went to Southampton and won 2-0 with goals from Abdoulaye Doucouré and Daryl Janmaat. Watford remains unbeaten through four games, which won’t last, of course. But Silva is building on the good work he did at Hull City last season. Next up is the trickiest test of the season so far: Manchester City at Vicarage Road on Saturday.
If only Tottenham could play all of its games away from pesky Wembley, and if only Harry Kane never had to play in August. Kane kept up his record of only beginning to be prolific in September against Everton on Saturday at Goodison Park. Spurs had better sort its Wembley problem out soon, though. It faces Borussia Dortmund at the national stadium on Wednesday, followed by Swansea City at the same venue on Saturday evening.
A terrific start to the season for Sean Dyche’s physical, well-organized team got better with a 1-0 win over Crystal Palace at Turf Moor Sunday. Chris Wood has settled quickly since his move from Leeds United.
It's not helpful for Jürgen Klopp to consider what might have happened had Sadio Mané not been dismissed. Klopp's team has now conceded eight goals in four league games. Sevilla visits Anfield Wednesday before Liverpool hosts Burnley Saturday.
West Brom’s own excellent start to the season came to a shuddering halt on the English south coast against Brighton. West Ham visits The Hawthorns on Saturday.
Mark Hughes’s side sits 12th in the league with five points from four games, hardly a rousingly brilliant start to the season. But Stoke has played Everton, Arsenal and Manchester United in that stretch. An easier run beckons.
A small step in the right direction following the hammering two weeks ago at Anfield. Arsenal was dominant against a poor Bournemouth team at Emirates Stadium, although the Chelsea game will tell us more about how it has recovered.
Two wins in a row in the league for Newcastle, with victory against Swansea City secured without the ill Rafael Benítez. Stoke visits St James’ Park on Saturday.
At last, relief for Chris Hughton, who watched his side score three past West Brom. Next up, a winnable game away at Bournemouth Friday evening.
A vicious opening stretch to the season—including games against Arsenal, Manchester United and Chelsea—means Leicester’s current position of 17 is probably a false one. A trip to Huddersfield Town on Saturday provides the chance for three points.
Slipping only by virtue of being inactive, Huddersfield travels to West Ham’s London Stadium Monday night.
One win from four Premier League games hides the fact that Everton has already played Manchester City, Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur. That, though, suggests Ronald Koeman’s club is not looking to break into those upper echelons of the league and that it did not spend heavily in the summer in an effort to do so. After Atalanta away in the Europa League comes a visit to Manchester United.
One defeat from four games, or five points from those fixtures and five points off relegation? Southampton travels to Crystal Palace on Saturday, after which its identity should be clearer.
Renato Sanches is not the answer to Swansea’s attacking woes, at least not yet. Paul Clement’s team has scored two goals in its opening four league games and faces Tottenham next on Saturday.
Monday night against Huddersfield looms horribly large for pointless West Ham. Defeat could spell the end for manager Slaven Bilić on his birthday.
Palace created more chances than Burnley and missed an extraordinary open goal through central defender Scott Dann. But no points and no goals in four games is still an extremely bad look for Frank de Boer, who must now be at risk of losing his job even this early in the season.
Has the bubble burst for Eddie Howe? Bournemouth competed against Manchester City in defeat but subsided against Arsenal. A point, at least, at home to Bournemouth on Friday is a necessity.


Thursday night's NFL season-opening game between the New England Patriots and the Kansas City Chiefs was a good one. It featured two of the best teams in the league, one of which is quarterbacked by Tom Brady. The game was high-scoring and well contested, until the Chiefs pulled away in the fourth quarter, sealing the upset win with touchdowns from running backs Charcandrick West and rookie sensation Kareem Hunt.
Unfortunately for the NFL, not many people watched it. Just over 21 million Americans tuned in, down 13 percent from last year. It was the first time in five years the game has drawn less than 25 million viewers, and its 14.6 overnight rating was the worst since 2009. Not good.
Related: How to watch the Patriots vs. Chiefs season opener
In 2016, regular season viewership was down by an average of 8 percent, according to ESPN, which is alarming. This may have been a result of presidential election coverage, but it also may indicate that people just aren't as into the NFL as they were five years ago, before Ray Rice, CTE revelations and some of the other unsavory aspects of the league surfaced. The ratings for Thursday night's game were less than stellar, but the NFL shouldn't panic just yet. Not totally, anyway.
We'll know far more about the outlook for the 2017 season after Sunday, when 12 of the 15 opening week games will take place. (The game between the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Miami Dolphins was postponed due to Hurricane Irma.) If you do decide to watch, here's a guide for who is playing whom when, and on what network.
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: CBSSTREAM: CBS All AccessANNOUNCERS: Kevin Harlan, Rich Gannon
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: FoxSTREAM: Fox Sports GoANNOUNCERS: Kevin Burkhardt, Charles Davis
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: CBSSTREAM: CBS All AccessANNOUNCERS: Spero Dedes, Adam Archuleta
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: CBSSTREAM: CBS All AccessANNOUNCERS: Greg Gumbel, Trent Green
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: FoxSTREAM: Fox Sports GoANNOUNCERS: Chris Myers, Daryl Johnston
TIME: 1:00 p.m. ETTV: CBSSTREAM: CBS All AccessANNOUNCERS: Andrew Catalon, James Lofton
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: CBSSTREAM: CBS All AccessANNOUNCERS: Jim Nantz, Tony Romo
TIME: 1 p.m. ETTV: FoxSTREAM: Fox Sports GoANNOUNCERS: Kenny Albert, Ronde Barber
TIME: 4:05 p.m. ETTV: CBSSTREAM: CBS All AccessANNOUNCERS: Ian Eagle, Dan Fouts
TIME: 4:25 p.m. ETTV: FoxSTREAM: Fox Sports GoANNOUNCERS: Joe Buck, Troy Aikman
TIME: 4:25 p.m. ETTV: FoxSTREAM: Fox Sports GoANNOUNCERS: Thom Brennaman, Chris Spielman
TIME: 8:30 p.m. ETTV: NBCSTREAM: NBC Sports Live ExtraANNOUNCERS: Al Michaels, Cris Collinsworth, Michele Tafoya


The Premier League returns this Saturday following the international break and viewers in the United States can catch all of the action, with the right combination of subscriptions.
Here is how to watch and stream the fourth week of fixtures.
Manchester City vs. Liverpool kicks off the weekend at 7.30 a.m. E.S.T. on NBCSN. NBCSN will also show Arsenal vs. Bournemouth from 9.55 a.m.
Everton vs. Tottenham Hotspur will air on CNBC from 10 a.m. on Saturday. Those three games are also available to stream for DIRECTV subscribers.
Brighton vs. West Brom, Leicester vs. Chelsea and Southampton vs. Watford are only available for those who subscribe to NBC’s new Premier League Pass service. That’s available for $50 and can be watched via live stream at NBCSportsGold.com. Saturday’s “late” game in the U.K., Stoke vs. Manchester United, is available on NBC from 12 p.m. E.S.T and via DIRECTV.
On Sunday, Burnley vs. Crystal Palace will show from 8.30 a.m. on NBCSN and DIRECTV, while Swansea vs. Newcastle airs on the same channel and DIRECTV from 11 a.m. E.S.T. On Monday, West Ham vs. Huddersfield is showing on NBCSN and DIRECTV from 3 p.m. E.S.T.


The Premier League returns on Saturday following the international break, promising the resumption of some delectable narratives—at least for neutrals.
At the top of the table there is a momentous clash between Manchester City and Liverpool at Etihad Stadium. At the bottom, Crystal Palace and West Ham United face pivotal fixtures, even this early in the season.
Here is Newsweek’s guide to the weekend’s fixtures.
United, yet to concede a goal in three games so far in the Premier League, travels to Stoke City on Saturday evening, knowing it could establish an already significant lead on its nearest challengers.
Against West Ham United, Swansea City and Leicester City, United combined ruthless efficiency with an artfulness missing from its play over the past few seasons. It also has gained increased production at the start of the season from Paul Pogba, its marquee player (although no longer the world’s most expensive, following a wild summer in the transfer market).
At some stage, United is going to run into adversity. It probably won’t be against mid-table Stoke.
Arsenal’s slow start to the season took a horrible turn against Liverpool at Anfield on August 27: a 4-0 drubbing in which many of its best players seemed disinterested at best. Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, one of the underperformers, departed soon afterward for Anfield, although Alexis Sánchez stayed.
Arsenal is already six points behind United. More significant in terms of its current prospects could be the four points that separate it from Manchester City in fourth, the final Champions League qualifying place.
Against Bournemouth at Emirates Stadium, Arsenal has a chance to rebound and release some of the pressure on Manager Arsène Wenger. Much will depend on the mood of Sánchez, and whether Mesut Özil can reproduce his international form on the club stage. Anything but a win, and the jeers for Wenger may turn into howls and screams.
Defeat to Chelsea at Wembley, the Spurs’ temporary home for the season, was hardly disastrous; a 1-1 draw with Burnley at the same venue was much more damaging. Now Tottenham faces a difficult trip to an Everton team that harbors ambitions only one notch or so below its own. Seven points from four games would be an acceptable start. Four from four would not.
Manchester City versus Liverpool should be an aesthetic treat, even without Philippe Coutinho. The Brazilian is back in training following the saga of his transfer to Barcelona that never became reality, though Liverpool Manager Jürgen Klopp is in the handsome position of having a smoothly functioning team even without his best technical player.
Sadio Mané, Robert Firmino and new signing Mohamed Salah have formed the Premier League’s slickest attack so far. City has looked impressive in bursts but needed the latest of goals to beat Bournemouth. Something—either Liverpool’s attacking verve or City’s ability to extricate itself from bad situations—must give here. Which probably means it will be a draw.
Neither de Boer, who is new to the Premier League, or the seasoned Bilic has collected a point so far this season. De Boer may be given longer by dint of being a newcomer; Bilic hangs more precariously, having bought Marko Arnautović and Javier Hernández in the summer after a disappointing first season in the former Olympic Stadium.
De Boer’s Crystal Palace faces a trip to Turf Moor against Burnley. Sean Dyche’s team is one of the best in the league at its home ground. West Ham entertains upstart Huddersfield in front of the Sky television cameras on Monday. A defeat, and an embarrassing showing against David Wagner’s commendably organized team, could leave Bilic hanging on to his job by a fingertip.


Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho has spoken for the first time about how Neymar’s world-record move from Barcelona to Paris Saint-Germain distorted the summer transfer window.
Neymar, 25, shocked the football world when he left the Catalan giant for the French capital this summer for £201.9 million ($263 million). His transfer opened up a bitter rift with Barcelona, the club that brought him to Europe from Santos in Brazil. On Tuesday, Neymar called Barcelona President Josep Maria Bartomeu a “joke,” after Bartomeu had claimed in the Spanish press that Barcelona would be better off this season without the Brazil international.
Neymar’s transfer did not just cause problems for Barcelona, though. Mourinho told The Times that the huge fee paid by P.S.G. inflated the market for other star players, though United was apparently prepared for such an eventuality.
"I think we were very clever," Mourinho said. "We thought that something could happen that could change the market forever. Normally the last part of the market is less expensive, but this season, after Neymar, everything changed and changed for the worse in terms of prices.
"I think [Romelu] Lukaku on August 31 would have been £150 million. [Nemanja] Matic would have been £60 million or £70 million. Neymar changed everything. If the biggest transfer in history had still been [Paul] Pogba, I think Philippe Coutinho would now be in Barcelona at £101 million.”
United signed Lukaku from Everton for around £75 million, while Matic cost a reported £40 million. Matic, the Serbia midfielder, signed at the end of July while the Lukaku deal was completed even earlier, at the start of July.
While Neymar has begun in vibrant fashion at P.S.G., both Matic and Lukaku have also been influential for a United side that leads the Premier League after three games with a perfect record of nine points.


It'll cost you more than ever to own an NBA team nowadays, and Texas billionaire Tilman Fertitta found out the hard way Tuesday when he purchased the Houston Rockets for a reported $2.2 billion. That's the largest sale in the history of the league.
But that's about the list price for an NBA team—Microsoft billionaire Steve Ballmer set the tone when he parted with $2 billion in 2014 to purchase the Los Angeles Clippers.
"I am truly honored to have been chosen as the next owner of the Houston Rockets. This is a lifelong dream come true," said Fertitta—who still awaits approval of the sale from the NBA—in a statement.
And, true, it must be fun for a sports fan to own a franchise, but don't chalk up Fertitta's investment solely as a vanity purchase. Season tickets, after all, don't cost billions of dollars, and they buy you a lot of fun and basketball. The NBA is in the middle of a boom. It's a league growing in popularity—especially among young people—with a massive nine-year, $24 billion TV deal.
Fertitta hasn't said much about the purchase, noting in his statement that outside of expressing excitement he wouldn't say more "out of respect for the NBA’s approval process." But he was willing to part with some 70 percent of his estimated net worth to own the team.
Ballmer, the last person to buy an NBA team, has commented on why he was willing to give up $2 billion. "It's not a cheap price, but when you're used to looking at tech companies with huge risk, no earnings and huge multiples, this doesn't look like the craziest thing I've ever acquired," he said in 2014. "There's much less risk. There's real earnings in this business. There's real upside opportunity."
In other words, NBA teams bring in real dollars with butts in seats, jerseys sold and eyeballs on TVs—unlike some tech companies with huge valuations and little to show in profits. 
Fertitta did pay more for the Rockets than Forbes estimated the team to be worth in its annual ranking. The magazine pegged the team as the eighth most valuable NBA franchise, at $1.65 billion. Yet its actual sale price of $2.2 billion would have been good enough for the Rockets to be the 30th most valuable sports team in the world, or the estimated worth of the fifth most valuable NBA franchise, the Boston Celtics, according to Forbes. 
The world's 10 most valuable sports franchises in 2017, according to Forbes, featured a couple of NBA squads, but the Rockets weren't close to breaking in. It went, in descending order, the Dallas Cowboys (NFL, $4.2 billion), the New York Yankees (MLB, $3.7 billion), Manchester United (soccer, $3.69 billion), Barcelona (soccer, $3.64 billion), Real Madrid (soccer, $3.58 billion), the New England Patriots (NFL, $3.4 billion), the New York Knicks (NBA, $3.3 billion), the New York Giants (NFL, $3.1 billion), the San Francisco 49ers (NFL, $3 billion) and the Los Angeles Lakers (NBA, $3 billion). 
And while the Rockets clearly fetched a high price, at least one NBA observer was calling it a bargain. The Ringer's editor-in-chief, Bill Simmons, tweeted: "Getting any top-7 NBA market franchise for under 2.5b is a steal in my opinion. Most marketable stars and much more streaming $$$$ coming."
Only time will tell if valuations keep rising in the NBA. A lot of that comes down to what happens with the next TV deal. But at least one thing is clear: Houston's former owner, Leslie Alexander, made out pretty damn well. He bought the team in 1993 for $85 million.


Jose Mourinho will move for Gareth Bale in the summer of 2018 as he seeks a “world-class” winger to complement Manchester United’s squad, according to reports in the British media on Tuesday.
According to  The Sun, Mourinho considered bidding for the Real Madrid midfielder in this summer transfer window, but the Spanish giant was unwilling to sell the 28-year-old.
However, Real apparently told United that while Bale would not be moving anywhere this summer, he could be available for sale in two transfer windows’ time.
While Bale is widely acknowledged to be a favorite of Real president Florentino Perez, his time in the Spanish capital has not been free from strife.
Bale has struggled with injuries and must now contend with the rise of Marco Asensio, the 21-year-old Spain international who plays in the Welshman’s position on the left wing of Real’s attack. Asensio has been in sparkling form for Real at the start of the new La Liga season.
Real could seek to cash in on Bale knowing it would receive upwards of £90 million from United, with a replacement already at the club in Asensio.
As for United, which leads the Premier League after three games, a left winger appears to be one of the final pieces in the jigsaw. Mourinho was interested in Ivan Perisic from Inter Milan this summer although a deal with the Serie A club eventually proved unworkable.
Bringing Bale back to the Premier League would represent a significant, if costly, coup for United. Bale dominated the division during his time with Tottenham Hotspur and returns a far more experienced player, albeit one with injury concerns.
As it is, Mourinho’s team looks like being a contender for the Premier League this season. Bale could tip it over the edge and make United a genuine challenger for European club honors, too.


Spending hit new heights in the Premier League in the summer 2017 transfer window.
Buoyed by a record-breaking television deal, Premier League clubs spent £1.41 billion this summer, an increase of £250 million on the summer of 2016. Since 2013, when Premier League clubs spent “just” £629.54 million, spending has risen sharply past the billion-pound mark.
Unsurprisingly, then, eight of the summer’s most expensive transfers were to Premier League teams, including the £76.2 million purchase of Romelu Lukaku by Manchester United from Everton.
With new billionaire owner Farhad Moshiri and the Lukaku money, Everton also spent heavily. Ronald Koeman’s club features in the top ten of Europe’s most expensive transfers this summer, having purchased Gylfi Sigurdsson from Swansea City for £45 million.
Neymar was the summer's most expensive transfer.   Daniele Palumbo/Transfermarkt
While the Premier League clubs collectively spent the most money of any league in Europe, the biggest individual transfer fees came from Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) and Barcelona.
PSG, the Qatari-funded French giant with its eyes on the Champions League, spent a world-record fee on Neymar from Barcelona of £199.8 million. Needing a commensurate replacement to appease its supporters, Barcelona spent £94.5 million on Ousmane Dembele from Borussia Dortmund. That deal, according to The Telegraph, could eventually rise to £135.5 million once add-ons have been taken into account.
You can view how Premier League summer spending has increased since the year 2000 via the graphic below.
Premier League transfer spending has increased steeply since 2013.   Daniele Palumbo/Transfermarkt


While its rivals, in particular Arsenal, flounder at the start of the new Premier League season Manchester United has raced into an early lead.
Jose Mourinho’s team is the only member of English football’s top division to have won three out of three games so far. In part that may be due to a settled squad, with Mourinho having concluded his dealings long before deadline day. Here is how United graded for the summer transfer window.
Romelu Lukaku has started like a runaway train, while Nemanja Matic has added control and poise to the midfield. Chelsea must already regret allowing him to leave, though they would never admit it.
Very early days, but Victor Lindelof has yet to appear in a Premier League game and looked shaky in the UEFA Super Cup defeat to Real Madrid at the start of August.
Zlatan Ibrahimovic was superb last season as United’s main source of goals but following a serious knee injury, can Mourinho trust him to produce anything like the same rate of scoring? It shouldn’t be so much of a problem if Ibrahimovic does falter, though, with Lukaku now the first-choice striker.
Mourinho never got the left winger he wanted, with Ivan Perisic of Inter Milan linked frequently throughout the summer. A deadline-day move for Leicester City’s Riyad Mahrez never materialized though the early-season form of Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial suggests United can do without that final piece of the puzzle.
United got its business done early and it is no surprise to see it topping the Premier League after three games of the season. It will be interesting to see if Lindelof can force his way into the first team, as Phil Jones has played impressively next to Eric Bailly so far. Keeping Matic fit appears crucial to United’s chances of winning the league while Lukaku’s goals will determine how far Mourinho’s team progresses in the Champions League.


The craziest—many might say overhyped and overblown—day in the professional football calendar ended at 11 p.m. last night when the Premier League transfer window closed.
As ever, some of England’s biggest teams seemed to leave their most important business until the last minute. As a result, several of the biggest mooted deals did not come off. Here are the main winners and losers from the Premier League.
Leaving deadline day and all its superheated paraphernalia well alone is a mark of how smoothly United conducted its business this summer. Yes, Jose Mourinho would have liked a left winger—it looks like Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial will have to fill in as square pegs once again this season in that round hole. But Mourinho got his striker in Romelu Lukaku and his dominant, ball-winning midfielder in Nemanja Matic. United looks well-placed to contend for the Premier League title once again.
Signing Alexis Sanchez might have tipped City over the edge into the status of title favorite but even without the Chilean, there is little doubt that Pep Guardiola will be happy enough with his summer transfer window. City addressed its biggest need, signing two full backs—albeit at vast expense. Bernardo Silva looks like a younger, faster version of his namesake David. And Guardiola will almost certainly get Sanchez for free next summer, anyway.
Tony Pulis had done excellent business even before deadline day, when he picked up Grzegorz Krychowiak from PSG on loan. The Polish midfielder will add skill and power and should help West Brom finish in the top ten of the Premier League.
Paul Clement’s connection with Bayern Munich manager Carlo Ancelotti brought Swansea one of the more intriguing deals of the final day of the transfer window: Renato Sanches. The teenager is one of world football’s most promising midfielders, even after a disappointing year in the Bundesliga. But does he really want to be at Swansea? If Clement can coax out his talent, he could be vital to Swansea’s chances of survival.
Naby Keita, who will arrive next summer, has the potential to be one of the world’s best central midfielders. Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain will add squad depth. Virgil Van Dijk would have been nice, but you can’t have everything can you?
Lordy, what a disaster. Arsenal kept hold of an unhappy Alexis Sanchez but lost Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain—how bad that deal turns out to be depends entirely on whether Jurgen Klopp can eke consistency from a player who can be flaky. Bidding £92 million ($118.8 million) for Thomas Lemar on the day he was due to play an international game for France just looks like poor planning.
Antonio Conte missed out on a long-term target in Fernando Llorente, while the Diego Costa impasse seems no closer to being solved. And is Danny Drinkwater as good as, let alone an upgrade on, Matic?
This is Chelsea’s loss, too, though really it is the Everton midfielder who has lost out. Barkley was reportedly in the middle of his medical at Chelsea when he decided to reevaluate his options in the January window. A once-promising career seems to have hit the buffers.
Llorente will be a fine addition, especially if Harry Kane gets injured. Serge Aurier is a good replacement for Kyle Walker although concerns about his character and past conduct shouldn’t be ignored. Perhaps, though, Tottenham could have pressed more to sign a creative player to provide competition for Christian Eriksen. The pursuit of Andre Gomes from Barcelona ended in failure.


Jose Mourinho is looking to raid his former club for a second time this summer and bring Willian to Manchester United from Chelsea, according to reports.
Mourinho, who led  Chelsea to the Premier League title in 2015, managed to persuade his former club to sell Nemanja Matic to  Manchester United for £40 million earlier this summer.
Matic was the third signing of the summer for United, following Swedish center back Victor Lindelof and Belgian striker Romelu Lukaku to Old Trafford.
Mourinho wanted a fourth player this summer, though, one capable of playing on the wing but cutting inside, and he sees Willian as that man.
According to  The Sun, United is making one last attempt to sign the 29-year-old Brazilian from  Chelsea this summer, expected to cost around £35 million.
Related:   Manchester United Makes Late Swoop For Rival’s Star Player
Chelsea is unlikely to sell, however, as Conte is more intent on bringing players to Stamford Bridge rather than seeing them leave.
Alvaro Morata, Antonio Rudiger and Tiemoue Bakayoko have all arrived in west London this summer, for a combined total of around £150 million, but Conte wanted at least three more signings.
Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain looked set to join Chelsea but snubbed a move to Stamford Bridge for Liverpool from Arsenal, while Fernando Llorente looks set to choose Tottenham over the Blues.
Chelsea does appear to have one deadline day deal wrapped up as Torino full back Davide Zappacosta is reportedly set to join Conte’s squad before the window closes.


With less than 12 hours remaining of the transfer window in England, Premier League clubs are looking to finalize their last deals of the summer. But their are still bargains to be had.
While  Chelsea and  Tottenham fight over Fernando Llorente,  Arsenal tries to hold onto Alexis Sanchez, and Liverpool aims for Virgil van Dijk and  Thomas Lemar, there are some cheap signings still rattling around.
Here,  Newsweek  guides you through the five biggest bargains still available in the  Premier League:
Loic Remy
Ever since Chelsea bought the French striker in 2014, he has played little Premier League football. But, before then, Remy was known for his prolificity. Wherever he went, goals were delivered. At Newcastle, he scored 14 goals in 16 league starts; with Marseille he scored 28 times in 74 games in Ligue 1 and 26 times in 68 for Nice before that. Although he is now 30 years old, Remy may be a cheap buy or loan for a club like Brighton that is struggling for goals this season, and fears the relegation places.
At Bournemouth, Wilshere failed to quite light up the south coast. He was the extreme talent that Eddie Howe felt fortunate to have, but Wilshere never quite lived up to his potential: the story of his career so far. But while he looks unlikely to break back into the Arsenal starting lineup, his ability is still clear and, for that reason, is worth taking on loan.
Related:   Liverpool Sets Up Paris Base For Last-Minute £74 Million Signing
Being number two to Harry Kane is an unenviable task. Janssen has had little opportunity in north London since his £17 million move from AZ Alkmaar last summer. But there is an obvious talent there, having scored 27 goals in 34 league games for Alkmaar, and that talent can be tapped into elsewhere. With Llorente possibly on his way to north London, Spurs may be willing to offload the striker on loan or a permanent deal.
Another forward who failed to live up to the high expectations after his arrival last summer, Lucas Perez made just two league starts for Arsenal since moving from Deportivo last summer. His prolific ability, like Janssen, is clear, having scored 18 goals in 37 games for Deportivo in the 2015/16 season. And Arsenal is keen to get rid of the Spaniard from its wage bill, so he could be a bargain for a struggling Premier League club.
There are two sides to Sissoko’s reputation. First, and most importantly, he’s a good footballer, a quick winger capable of lighting up a team, as Newcastle United saw. But, also, his approach and focus on the team is questioned, as Tottenham and Mauricio Pochettino saw this season having spent £30 million on him. Although he may be the biggest gamble on this list, it may just be worth it.


It was the move that shocked the NBA world, but now there’s an even bigger twist.
Kyrie Irving got his wish to leave Cleveland, and he was heading for Boston while Isaiah Thomas went the other way, joining the Cavs. Then, uncertainty surrounded the deal, as  the Cavaliers were not happy with the physical status of  Thomas, who was recovering from injury.  Cleveland felt it had been undersold in the deal.
So, with new doubt surrounding the deal, Irving suddenly seems to be up for grabs again—or so the Milwaukee Bucks assume, anyway. According to  ESPN, the Bucks have made an offer to the  Cavaliers, with a package that includes Malcolm Brogdon, the Rookie of the Year, and Khris Middleton.
The offer may also include a future first-round pick, but Milwaukee is yet to put that part on the table for the Cavs. It will now be up to the Cavs to take the next step, depending on whether it is happy to continue with the deal for Thomas.
Related:   Isaiah Thomas calls out new team, tells Cavaliers he’s ‘not damaged’
Speaking earlier this week to  ESPN, the point guard told the Cavs he expected to return to the court next season in the same condition as before he was injured.
“I am not damaged,” Thomas said. “I'll be back, and I'll be the same player."
He added: “There's never been an indication that I wouldn't be back, and there's never been an indication that this is something messing up my career. Maybe I am not going to be back as soon this season as everyone wants me to be, but I'm going to be back, and I'm going to be the same player again. No doctor has told me anything different than that.”
Thomas insisted that he had been in constant contact with his new team, but was unsure of what was going on. “I don't know what [the organization] is doing,” he said. “It's out of my control. I just want to talk about what I can control, and I know that this [hip] won't be a problem into the future.”


It is a new feeling for Chelsea. Being on the other end of a transfer snub as Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain opted to move to Liverpool from Arsenal despite Chelsea agreeing a fee with the Gunners.
But  Antonio Conte and Chelsea have little time to stare into space, bemused; the transfer window closes in less than 12 hours. So the club has identified a new target.
Bayern Munich’s veteran midfielder Rafinha is on  Conte’s radar with the Italian coach desperate to bring in another option for his wing back position, according to the  London Evening Standard.
The Brazilian has been with Bayern Munich since 2011, and the 31-year-old fits Conte’s role for the right wing back as an alternative option to Victor Moses.
Related:   Chelsea is Planning a Late Double Swoop on Deadline Day
Chelsea had agreed a fee with Arsenal for 24-year-old Oxlade-Chamberlain but reports suggest the Englishman took a paycut to join up with  Jurgen Klopp at Anfield.
So  Conte has looked to make Rafinha one of his final signings of the summer window. Also on his list of targets is Swansea striker Fernando Llorente and Leicester City midfielder Danny Drinkwater.
Llorente, the 32-year-old striker, has been a target for  Chelsea throughout the summer but Tottenham has reportedly made a late bid to Swansea.
Drinkwater, meanwhile, has reportedly handed in a transfer request at the King Power Stadium to push through a move to west London. The transfer window closes at 6 p.m. ET.


For most Premier League clubs, the transfer window will close at 11 p.m. on Thursday August 31—but not for Liverpool. 
Jurgen Klopp must wait another 25 hours before learning whether or not he will lose his best attacker, Philippe Coutinho, to Barcelona.
That’s because the Spanish transfer window shuts a day later than in England, at midnight on Friday, leaving La Liga clubs available to sign players from the Premier League through tomorrow.
FIFA, world football’s governing body, allows individual football associations to decide on their respective deadlines for registering players. The Spanish window opens a day after the English summer transfer window.
Barcelona has had three bids turned down already for Coutinho, who is now on international duty with Brazil. The latest bid for the 25-year-old was reported by the BBC to be £114 million ($146.8 million).
"[Transfer speculation] has affected him and will continue to affect him until the transfer window closes,” Brazil coach Tite said in a press conference on Thursday.
"If he leaves, he will continue to be affected because he'll need time to adapt to his new club. Players are human beings and they respond in different ways.
"I'm not sure how he will respond because it depends on the person.”
Barcelona’s transfer activity this summer has been sparked by the departure of Neymar to Paris Saint-Germain for a world-record fee. The Catalans have already bought Ousmane Dembele from Borussia Dortmund this summer to replace Neymar for a fee believed to be close to £100 million.
Barcelona’s determination to get Coutinho, coupled with the 25 hours’ difference between the Premier League and La Liga transfer windows, means that Klopp may be in for a nervous Friday as he seeks to hang onto Coutinho ahead of the commencement of Liverpool’s Champions League campaign.


Leicester City winger Riyad Mahrez has been given permission to leave the Algeria national team’s training camp as he closes in on a possible transfer away from the east Midlands.
Mahrez, 26, has been consistently linked with a move away from Leicester this summer although he has featured prominently in the club's Premier League campaign so far.
"Leicester City's Algerian international Riyad Mahrez, who is currently with the national team in Sidi Moussa to prepare for the double confrontation against Zambia for the 2018 World Cup qualifiers, was authorised by the national coach Lucas Alcaraz and the Algerian Football Federation to make an express trip to Europe to formalise on Thursday his transfer to his new club, read a statement on the Algerian Football Association’s website on Thursday.
"The national team will fly without him on Thursday morning to Lusaka to face Zambia on Saturday."
The identity of Mahrez’s next club, though, remains a source of conjecture. The Manchester Evening News reported on Thursday that United has “no concrete interest” in Mahrez, the creative lynchpin in Leicester’s astonishing Premier League title triumph in 2016-17.
That’s despite manager Jose Mourinho requiring and desiring a left winger to add balance to a team that nevertheless leads the Premier League with a perfect record after three games.
The BBC claims Barcelona, Chelsea and United are “interested” but only A.S. Roma has made any formal bids for Mahrez, with the third and latest worth around £32 million ($41.3 million).
Mahrez is clearly going somewhere that isn’t staying at Leicester City before the British transfer window closes at midnight on Thursday, but his destination seems to be a genuine source of mystery. As for United—having failed to land Mourinho’s first-choice left winger in Ivan Perisic, it looks like being a quiet close to the window for the Premier League leader.


Liverpool has set up a base in Paris where it can complete a medical and carry out further negotiations for Thomas Lemar should its £74 million bid for the midfielder be accepted, according to reports.
Lemar, the A.S. Monaco midfielder, has been a target for  Jurgen Klopp’s team in the final weeks of the window, as  Liverpool completes a late spree of spending.
The club has signed Naby Keita from RB Leipzig, but he won’t join until next year, it looks set to announce the arrival of  Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain from  Arsenal, and is now preparing for a potential deal for Lemar.
Liverpool is persisting in its pursuit of the French midfielder and is willing to offer £74 million (about $95 million,) according to  The Independent.
But the club is so prepared for the deal to go ahead that a team is on standby to travel to Paris and carry out the medical today, the  Liverpool Echo says.
Lemar was a target for Arsenal earlier in the transfer window, but the Gunners gave up on the deal because Monaco was unwilling to sell him this summer.
This was due to the fact that the majority of Monaco’s team has been sold, including Tiemoue Bakayoko, Bernardo Silva, Benjamin Mendy and Kylian Mbappe looks likely to leave.
But Liverpool hasn’t given up yet. It has been a successful transfer window for Klopp as he looks set to hold onto  Philippe Coutinho, who was wanted by Barcelona, and strengthen his team hugely.
The only downside will be if he misses out on strengthening his defense, having chased the signing of Southampton center back Virgil van Dijk throughout the summer.


It is finally here. After 62 days of an open transfer window in which Premier League clubs spent have spent more than £1 billion, the end is finally in sight.
Unlike in previous years, there is still likely to be big business. The future of  Arsenal’s top players is still uncertain,  Chelsea is hoping for a few more players through the door, and Manchester City’s summer spending spree may not be over yet.
Here,  Newsweek  takes you through all the news and rumors swirling around the  Premier League’s transfer market for one final time this summer:
Arsenal is preparing for a £70 million offer from Manchester City for  Alexis Sanchez, currently on international duty for Chile, according to the  Independent. City has sent a team of legal and medical officials to south America in preparation for a last-minute deal.
According to the  Daily Mirror, Arsenal will make a last-ditch attempt to sign  Julian Draxler from Paris Saint-Germain, and if it is unsuccessful the Gunners will not sell Sanchez to City.
Antonio Conte still wants three players at Stamford Bridge, according to the  Daily Telegraph. One of those targets is Spanish striker  Fernando Llorente, who has been in advanced talks with Chelsea over a move from Swansea,  ESPN say, but reports also suggest that Tottenham has made a late bid for him.
Related:   From Man United to Huddersfield, how has your club’s top signing fared so far?
Tottenham has also joined West Ham in the race for Barcelona midfielder  Andre Gomes, according to the  Daily Mirror. West Ham had originally been in negotiations with Sporting Lisbon’s  William Carvalho.
Everton looks to strengthen its defense even further as Ronald Koeman’s club has made a late bid for Barcelona center back  Thomas Vermaelen, aiming to take him on a season-long loan, according to the  Liverpool Echo.
Chelsea may finally complete the sale of awol striker  Diego Costa today as the club has been in negotiations with Atletico Madrid, Costa’s preferred destination, and has received a new offer of £49 million, according to  The Sun.
And finally, West Ham has made a last minute attempt to sign  Jack Wilshere from Arsenal, according to  The Sun. The English midfielder has struggled to break into Arsene Wenger’s team and spent last season on loan at Bournemouth.


Isaiah Thomas hasn’t even begun his fresh start to life in Cleveland, and it’s already looking rocky.
Thomas, the Celtics point guard, was part of the sensational trade with  the Cavaliers that saw  Kyrie Irving heading to Boston. But the move hit a snag due to uncertainty over Thomas’s physical state.
Reports suggested  the Cavs were looking for further compensation from the Celtics due to the 28-year-old’s injury, but Thomas has been forceful with his belief that he’ll come back stronger.
“I am not damaged,” he told  ESPN. “I'll be back, and I'll be the same player.
“There's never been an indication that I wouldn't be back, and there's never been an indication that this is something messing up my career. Maybe I am not going to be back as soon this season as everyone wants me to be, but I'm going to be back, and I'm going to be the same player again. No doctor has told me anything different than that.”
Related:   Kevin Durant makes wager with Bill Simmons over LeBron James’s Future
Thomas insisted that he had been in constant contact with his new team, but was unsure of what was going on. “I don't know what [the organization] is doing,” he said. “It's out of my control. I just want to talk about what I can control, and I know that this [hip] won't be a problem into the future.”
The extent of uncertainty surrounding the deal was confounded further by Thomas deciding not to comment on his departure from Boston, nor his arrival in Cleveland, stuck in limbo.
Related:   Isaiah Thomas may not have been the Cavs’ first choice of trade
Boston claims to have been clear about Thomas’s physical limitations throughout negotiations with the Cavaliers, but Cleveland says this was not the case.
It has put a dark cloud over Thomas’s arrival at the Quicken Loans Arena as both team and player enter a relationship with contradiction. It may not be the dream move Thomas had hoped for.


Manchester United has registered an interest in signing Riyad Mahrez from Leicester City with little over 24 hours remaining of the summer transfer window, according to reports.
Jose Mourinho has had a busy summer that has pleased him as his new signings have helped take  Manchester United to the top of the  Premier League table.
But  Mourinho was never satisfied. To be totally content with his team, the Portuguese coach wanted just one more signing this summer, a player who can play wide and cut inside.
Ivan Perisic, of Inter Milan, was his top target, but now  United has shown interest in Leicester City’s 2016 PFA Player of the Year Mahrez, according to  The Independent.
Mahrez is keen to leave the King Power Stadium this summer but Leicester is yet to receive an offer that it feels is worth selling the Algerian forward. Roma was interested in signing him, but failed to reach the £50 million valuation Leicester has for Mahrez.
Related:   From Man United to Huddersfield Town, How Has Your Club’s Top Signing Fared So Far?
Mahrez would become the fifth big name to move to  Old Trafford this summer. Swedish center back Victor Lindelof was the first through the door, joining from Benfica for £34 million, and Romelu Lukaku soon followed.​The Belgian striker transferred from Everton for £75 million and has eased into life at United, already scoring four goals in four games for Mourinho’s team.
United then managed to complete a £40 million signing of Nemanja Matic, the Serbian midfielder who Mourinho worked with at Chelsea, before renewing Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s contract at Old Trafford for another year.
Mourinho’s team already looks strong, and the addition of Mahrez would make United an even stronger contender for the title.


With Premier League clubs spending more than £1 billion on signings already this summer, there are high expectations for the purchases.
Three weeks into the new season and we are already getting an idea of who is fitting in seamlessly and who is struggling to live up to the hype.
Here,  Newsweek  rates how each club’s top signing so far this summer has fared in the season's first few weeks.
It was after Ake was recalled by Chelsea from his loan deal at Bournemouth last season that the south coast club realized how vital he was to the team. So Eddie Howe’s club paid a club record £20 million to bring him back to the Vitality Stadium. But it hasn’t been the best start for the Dutchman, as Bournemouth has failed to keep a clean sheet and has lost every game so far.
The French striker took just 94 seconds to announce himself to the Premier League and Arsenal Football Club, when he scored in his league debut in the dramatic 4-3 win over Leicester. But two games later, Lacazette, who cost Arsenal a club record £46 million, has been unable to score again and was just a substitute in the 4-0 defeat to Liverpool.
Related: Arsene Wenger could see nightmare deadline day exodus at Arsenal
With just one game played in the blue and white of Brighton and Hove Albion, it would be harsh to judge Izquierdo too severely. His job at the Amex Stadium is to bring some much-needed goals, as Chris Hughton’s team is yet to score this season. But there was some approval in the 0-0 draw with Watford on August 26, when Izquierdo made a charge back to prevent a late counter from Watford. That will please the Amex faithful for now anyway.
With even less time to fit into his new surroundings, Wood made an immediate impression for Sean Dyche’s team after joining from Leeds in a club record £15 million move. At Wembley on Sunday, just days after completing the transfer, Wood, 25, scored a dramatic late equalizer against Tottenham to show Burnley it was money well spent.
Those boots of Diego Costa are pretty big to fill, but Morata has done a fine job so far. In his opening three Premier League games since joining Chelsea for a club record £60 million, he has two goals and two assists to his name. He has linked up smartly with Cesc Fàbregas, his fellow Spaniard, as well as Pedro and Willian. His goal tally could, and should, be larger, however, as he has missed a couple of clear chances. The absence of a clinical finish prevents Morata from achieving a higher mark.
Related: How will Chelsea’s £105 million new trio fit in Antonio Conte’s team?
There are high hopes for 21-year-old Loftus-Cheek at Stamford Bridge, and he has been sent to south London to get some game time in the Premier League. And while Palace’s start to the season has verged on dreadful, losing all three games and failing to score a goal, Loftus-Cheek has been the standout performer. Athletic and powerful, with a lethal shot, the midfielder has provided a small ray of hope for manager Frank de Boer.
It was meant to be a sentimental move, but Rooney’s return to Goodison Park at the age of 31, 13 years after leaving for Manchester United, has been anything but that. He scored the winning goal against Stoke and put Everton ahead against Manchester City. It’s not even September, and Rooney has already played seven games this season.
There were never any great expectations for Huddersfield in the Premier League, and we got that wrong. And Australian midfielder Mooy was barely known before he scored the winner against Newcastle last weekend to see David Wagner’s team go—temporarily—top of the Premier League. While Huddersfield have been the surprise team of the season so far, Mooy is certainly the surprise signing.
There were times last season when Iheanacho was outshining Marcus Rashford, his youthful rival at Manchester's other club. Both young strikers were impressing, but the Nigerian appeared to be the more complete player, leading Leicester to pay £25 million for him. But so far, he has played just eight minutes of the defeat at the Emirates Stadium, and Craig Shakespeare will be hoping for more.
Philippe who? Jurgen Klopp’s front three at Liverpool have looked as deadly as ever after the arrival of Salah from Roma this summer. The Egyptian winger failed to set the league alight with Chelsea three years ago, but under Klopp he has linked up with Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino perfectly, scoring twice and assisting once.
Related: Here’s why Philippe Coutinho looks destined for Barcelona this summer
One of the Monaco alumni expected to thrive abroad. The one-footed wizard is yet to find his place on Pep Guardiola’s team, as he tries to fit in alongside David Silva, Kevin De Bruyne, Leroy Sane, Yaya Toure and Fernandinho. It’s a talented but cramped midfield, and Silva could turn out to be one of Guardiola’s key players. But for now, he’s finding his footing in English football.
The £75 million fee Manchester United paid for Lukaku is increasingly looking like good value for money. With three goals in three games so far this season, the Belgian striker is looking comfortable in the No. 9 jersey at Old Trafford. He would have had a perfect start to life under Jose Mourinho had he not seen his penalty against Leicester City saved on August 26.
Related:   Could Zlatan Ibrahimovic Actually Derail Jose Mourinho’s Season at Manchester United?
After making his move to St. James’ Park permanent, having excelled in the promotion winning season last year, Atsu, like Newcastle, is starting to ease into Premier League life. Setting up a goal in the 3-0 win over West Ham sparked life into both Rafael Benitez’s team and especially the 25-year-old winger.
Steady. It’s been a positive start to life in England for Lemina after completing his move from Italian giant Juventus this summer. In the defensive midfield position, Southampton has kept two clean sheets in the league this season with a couple of goalless draws. It may be the attacking position that is more of a concern for the Saints.
Stoke has managed to attract another European starlet. After Bojan, now comes Jese. And he was quick to make his mark on the Bet 365 crowd after joining from Paris Saint-Germain on loan. The 24-year-old scored the only goal in a 1-0 win over Arsenal and has looked like the most talented player in Mark Hughes's squad. Jese could turn out to be the best business of the summer if that form continues.
There are high hopes for Mesa after his move from Spain to Wales, but he hasn’t had the easiest start, with a 4-0 beating from Manchester United. The 28-year-old midfielder may fear Swansea’s links to signing another midfielder, Renato Sanches, on loan from Bayern Munich.
With such little business so far this summer, it is tricky to put Spurs on the list. Sanchez, the center back signed from Ajax, is expected to follow in the footsteps of Jan Vertonghen and Toby Alderweireld, who make up the most feared defensive line in England. But we’re yet to see it. He came on to play one minute against Burnley at Wembley on August 27, and, unfortunately for the 21-year-old, Burnley scored its equalizer in that time.
The signing of Gray was a big coup for Marco Silva at his new club. Burnley is a direct rival to Watford, so to take its prolific striker away was a fine piece of business. But Watford is yet to see the goals. In four appearances, Gray has not found the target. But with Watford enjoying a positive start to the season, the pressure is not too high for Gray just yet.
In 2013, Rodriguez’s performances earned him a call up to Roy Hodgson’s England squad, but injuries have hindered him since. Tony Pulis’s West Brom paid Southampton £12 million for him this summer, and he is already paying that back. Rodriguez has two goals in his last two games, and the Baggies will hope that trend continues.
West Ham could end up paying Stoke City £25 million for Arnautovic. Such a high sum comes for the fact that he guarantees a skillful ability with goals, but there are more certainties with the Austrian forward. Arnautovic is a temperamental player, and West Ham has already seen that after he was sent off against Southampton in the second game of the season, a second defeat in a row.


The speculation will go on for another 12 months. With the option to leave Cleveland next summer, what NBA jersey will LeBron James be wearing in a year’s time?
It is debated at the Quickens Loan Arena, in newspapers, in bars across the country, and on  The Bill Simmons Podcast. Simmons was joined by  Golden State star Kevin Durant to discuss the future of the  Cavaliers man, and they have different opinions.
Both men believed in their prediction so much so that a wager was placed on the outcome: The loser would buy the other man a Fat Sal’s combo meal. So, what were the predictions?
Durant expects little change. “I personally always said he was staying,” the Warriors forward said. “I told him this. That’s me. I feel like he’s going to end it in Cleveland. That’s his crib now. He run it and he gonna turn it into something mega when he’s done. He’s going to do something.”
But Simmons sees  James heading west. “I’m betting L.A.,” he said. “I think the Lakers thing makes a lot of sense.”
Related:   The Trade Cavaliers Must Make to Hold Onto LeBron James Next Summer
The turbulent offseason in Cleveland has been one signal that James may head for the exit when he has the opportunity next summer. David Griffin, the former General Manager of the Cavs, was popular with James but was fired by owner Dan Gilbert.
There has been change in the roster as well. James was disappointed to see Kyrie Irving make a trade request, and is yet to comment on the incoming Isaiah Thomas, who is coming the other way from the Celtics as part of the trade.
Simmons’ prediction that James will end up with the Lakers is partly backed up by the fact the 32-year-old has a home in Los Angeles, where he has spent much of the summer.
But the two men will have to wait until next summer to find out what James will do next, and, more importantly, who wins the Fat Sal’s combo.


Throughout the summer, no matter what subject he discussed, Arsene Wenger spoke with hope.
He was constantly questioned about the contracts of  Arsenal’s key players—how the club had allowed Alexis Sanchez, Mesut Ozil and  Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain’s contracts to run down withut trying to renew them.  Wenger’s response always suggested some belief that, through performances, those players would be convinced that they wanted to remain at the Emirates Stadium, and not leave for free next summer.
Performances and, more importantly, results it seems, have had an effect on whether Arsenal’s players want to stay or go—and in most cases it’s the latter. Arsenal has held on for as long as it can, but the board cannot risk seeing £50 million players walk out the door for nothing.
So, with just 48 hours remaining of the transfer window, Arsenal may need to install a swing door for the amount of players who could be on their way out of it.
Oxlade-Chamberlain’s exit looks inevitable; it is now just a matter of where he goes. At the moment, that looks likely to be Stamford Bridge with  Chelsea, but  Liverpool is reportedly also in the hunt for the 24-year-old midfielder, and reports suggest Oxlade-Chamberlain prefers Anfield.
Related:   How will Chelsea’s £105 million trio of deadline day signings fit in Conte’s team?
The most talked about player of the summer at Arsenal is Sanchez. Images of the Chilean forward in serious talks with Wenger have been doing the rounds, with Sanchez looking likely to leave.
On Tuesday, he looked set for Manchester City, but Arsenal reportedly wanted a player from City as part of the deal. Arsenal rejected a cash-only offer of £50 million, in the hope that Raheem Sterling or Sergio Aguero could be part of a cash-plus-player trade.
And even Shkodran Mustafi could be on his way out of north London. The German center back was signed for £35 million last summer, but found himself watching from the bench as Liverpool eased passed the Arsenal defense on Sunday to a 4-0 victory.
Mustafi could be on his way to Inter Milan on a loan deal with a view to a permanent move next summer, the  Daily Mail says.
With no Champions League football and chances of a Premier League title slipping away before the leaves even begin to darken, hope at Arsenal is increasingly disappearing.


After such a long summer, with more than £1 billion spent in the transfer market, there are only 48 hours remaining until the window closes.
Liverpool is highly active,  Arsenal may be doing more business than it wants to, and  Chelsea is desperate to get a final few deals completed before the August 31 deadline.
Here,  Newsweek  guides you through all the news and rumors circling the transfer market as the window closes:
Chelsea wanted to complete the signing of  Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain after reportedly agreeing a fee of £40 million ($55 million) with Arsenal. But the  Daily Mail says Antonio Conte’s team fears the 24-year-old midfielder is stalling on agreeing personal terms as he would prefer a move to Liverpool.
After a successful summer, Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool may have a sour end to August. According to  Yahoo, the Anfield club has agreed to sell 25-year-old Brazilian midfielder  Philippe Coutinho to Barcelona for £148 million.
Tottenham has long looked the likely destination for Everton midfielder  Ross Barkley, but now the transfer looks unlikely to happen as the  London Evening Standard says Spurs has concerns over the 23-year-old midfielder’s injury issues.
Related:   Here’s why Philippe Coutinho looks destined for Barcelona this summer
West Brom center back  Jonny Evans looks set to join Manchester City and would snub any offer from Arsenal, according to the  Daily Mail.
Southampton’s wantaway defender  Virgil van Dijk is still clinging to hope that he can get the transfer he so desires before the window closes. Liverpool has looked the likely destination, but Arsenal and Chelsea are also lurking for the 26-year-old Dutch center back, according to the  Independent.
Newly promoted Newcastle United may be about to lose its striker  Dwight Gayle as manager Rafael Benitez is willing to sell for a fee of around £18 million, according to The Guardian.


Say you're walking the streets of New York City—perhaps near my local grocery store in Astoria, Queens (shoutout Key Food)—and you happen to spot me trawling through the jalapeños attempting to discern which peppers appear especially spicy. If you, my good friend and dear reader, approach me and strike up a conversation about your fantasy football roster, know that I will grimace and nod politely. I am nothing if not a coward who avoids confrontation. 
But internally I will be screaming. 
I do not need to hear about your fantasy team. Please. Just please. It feels almost played out to complain about this in the year of our lord two-thousand-and-seventeen and yet, AND YET, without a shred of doubt before this week is done—as jabronis nationwide draft fantasy football teams—I will no doubt be regaled multiple times with tales of brilliance and mastery of all things fantasy (otherwise known as reading the ESPN position rankings like everyone else.) 
So, if you—godforsaken internet person who clicked on my content—find yourself one-on-one with me, here are a few things I would rather politely endure than listen to you describe how, "Actually, drafting Kirk Cousins as early as you did was genius."
1. I would rather hear about a stranger's ingrown toenail than listen to you jabber about running backs. God, I would happily hear about how the problem was ignored for a while then things got infected and now it's got this awful puss—goopy and yellow and thick—that just won't fix itself and "Here, why do you don't take a look..."
2. I would rather invite a college sophomore from, say, the University of Vermont or UC Boulder and fire up, at exactly the same time, The Wizard of Oz  and The Dark Side of the Moon then just see what that student has to say for the next couple of hours.
3. I would rather challenge a dad, any dad, to remember the year something happened then listen to the inevitable oscillations among, "It was '89, well no, it was '91, ah but I don't think Janet was born yet so it must have been 1990 but wait, no, yes, it was '89 because I was jogging a lot at the time and well, maybe it was..."
4. I would rather watch The Emoji Movie than hear half a syllable about "how your strategy makes sense in a PPR-style league."
5. I would rather fall into some sort of mysterious portal and be forced to relive the time I called my elementary-school teacher "mom" than be forced to bear 2 minutes of you rattling off wide receivers you think will take you over the top this year; holy shit, I don't care.
6. To ward off your fantasy preachings, I would rather sit on the New York City subway, which proves daily to be a near-Sisyphean task of fighting hordes of passengers, enduring unbearable heat and zen-acceptance of bureaucratic slothfulness. 
7. Speaking of New York things, I would rather attend a gig for Knicks owner James Dolan's shitty blues band/vanity project.  
8. Do you know that thing where you eat too much Cap'n Crunch and it scrapes the roof of your mouth, leaving little dangly bits of flesh in the wake of the deluge of crunch? I'd rather have that than hear a single thing about your fantasy draft.
9. I would rather plop myself directly across from one of those people who slurps everything really loudly—I'm talking inner-ear rattling sluuuuuuuuuuurps—and sit through them deliberately housing a family-sized pot of soup.
10. You know those YouTube personalities who start their videos with "Hey guys!"—those online monsters who peddle a witch's brew of bootstrap optimism, crap products and influence over The Teens? I would rather watch their latest 20-minute soliloquy on how a good life starts with reminding yourself of your truth and a particular avocado oil than hear one word about how, actually, taking a kicker before the last round was innovation at its finest. 


Week three of the Premier League season continued a theme, as Manchester United powered on at the top of the table.
Draws for Huddersfield Town and West Bromwich Albion meant United is the only team left in the league with a perfect record. Here’s how the power rankings look after three games.
Top of the league, still, and still no goals conceded. Mourinho’s United juggernaut keeps on rolling. A visit to Stoke City is next up after the international break for Paul Pogba and co.
No Coutinho, no problem. Liverpool carried its blistering form from its two-legged Champions League playoff victory over Hoffenheim into the weekend, toying with an admittedly woeful Arsenal. Somehow, Liverpool looks in better shape than Manchester City heading into that huge game at Etihad Stadium on September 9.
Somehow, City keeps finding ways to win despite not playing to its potential and having players sent off. Raheem Sterling saved Pep Guardiola for the second game in a row by scoring the winner against Bournemouth on Saturday in injury time before Sterling was dismissed for celebrating with the City fans. City could have easily left with nothing, though, had Bournemouth striker Benik Afobe not spurned a chance seconds earlier. At some point soon it will start playing well, and that is a concern for everyone else.
Dominant against Everton at Stamford Bridge by a wider margin than the 2-0 scoreline, talk of a crisis suddenly seems a very long time ago. Chelsea could still do with clearing up the Diego Costa stand-off before the end of the transfer window, mind.
Still unbeaten, and like United, yet to concede a goal. Unlike United, Huddersfield looks like it could struggle to score, too. David Wagner’s impressive team visits struggling West Ham United following the international break.
Still unbeaten, and it’s a measure of West Brom’s progress under Tony Pulis that his team should have felt disappointed not to beat an obdurate Stoke City team at The Hawthorns on Sunday. Now Pulis must resist offers for his best defender, Jonny Evans, before the transfer window closes.
Perhaps a 0-0 draw at home against Brighton and Hove Albion isn’t too much cause for celebration. But having lost Miguel Britos to a red card on 24 minutes, Marco Silva will have been happy to escape with his team’s own unbeaten record intact. Watford travels to Southampton on September 9.
The purchase of Chris Wood is already paying off. Wood’s calm finish grabbed Burnley an impressive point at Wembley against Tottenham Hotspur. In a reverse of last season, Burnley’s form away from Turf Moor continues to be better than at its home ground. Crystal Palace visits next.
There is no shame in being well beaten away from home, and Everton have had two tremendously tricky away fixtures so far. Ronald Koeman would like to add a striker before the end of the transfer window.
For Everton, read Leicester and vice versa. Losing Jamie Vardy would be a significant blow. Jonny Evans and/or Mohamed Elneny would be terrific additions.
A good start will become a great one for Mauricio Pellegrino if Southampton can beat Watford after the international break.
Much, much better. Mikel Merino looks a fine addition, although West Ham are poor enough to make it difficult to evaluate Newcastle comprehensively on the basis of one comfortable win alone.
Back to mid-table for Stoke, which out-shot West Brom at the Hawthorns but had to rely on a defensive mistake to snatch a draw. Mourinho’s marauders come next.
Breathing room for Paul Clement, who nevertheless needs a replacement for Gylfi Sigurdsson before the transfer window closes.
No points from its first three games, but Eddie Howe’s club played better than a team battling relegation against Manchester City.
With one point from its last two games, Mauricio Pochettino’s team is already well off the pace of Manchester United.
A point is better than none for Chris Hughton’s struggling side, but Brighton may come to rue not putting ten-man Watford away.
Frank De Boer’s side has yet to score in three completed games. That’s bad, obviously. The rot must stop soon or the Dutchman will be the first Premier League manager this season out of a job.
Rock bottom, with ten goals conceded in three games. Slaven Bilic and De Boer may be competing now to see who gets fired first.
That new contract for Arsene Wenger looks worse by the day. Liverpool schooled, roasted, humiliated Arsenal, sending red shirts scurrying back to north London in their thousands. This was the most abject performance by any Premier League team so far this season.


It is a photograph that has been doing the rounds in recent weeks, mocked for its false promise. Arsene Wenger, in 2012, stands father-like over the future of his Arsenal team that had British blood flowing through it.
From left to right, Carl Jenkinson, Aaron Ramsey, Jack Wilshere, Kieran Gibbs and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain smile as they pen long-term contracts at  Arsenal. Five years on, only Ramsey remains a key figure in the first-team, with Gibbs and Oxlade-Chamberlain both set to leave this week for West Brom and  Chelsea, respectively.
There is a possibility, come Friday, that it may be Antonio Conte who assumes the role of Wenger, standing over his new British core. Oxlade-Chamberlain is just one of three English players the  Chelsea manager reportedly wants before the August 31 transfer deadline; Everton’s Ross Barkley and Leicester’s Danny Drinkwater are also targets for the west London club, according to  The Times.
But with  Conte and Chelsea already spending £150 million (about $194 million) this summer, where would the new arrivals fit into the  Premier League champion’s new-look team?  Newsweek  takes a look:
The 24-year-old Arsenal man is on his way to Stamford Bridge in a deal worth around £40 million (about $52 million), according to the  BBC. Chamberlain is capable of playing in an attacking midfield position as well as on the wings, giving Conte options for Chelsea’s packed schedule. But Chamberlain, known as "the Ox" at the Emirates Stadium, has been an attractive addition to Conte due to his versatility. Potentially, the midfielder could fill the role of right wing-back at Chelsea, sharing the role with Victor Moses, who Conte successfully remodeled last season after three disastrous years at Stamford Bridge.
Related:   Chelsea to Confirm Double Signing, Manchester United Eyes Stunning Late Deal
Since making his debut for Everton five years ago, Ross Barkley has been full of promise. Tall, strong, athletic, fast, smart, with a lethal shot, the 23-year-old possesses all the assets a top Premier League player requires. But, three managers later at Goodison Park, Barkley has failed to progress, to take that next step in his career. Now, it seems, he wants to do that elsewhere. Conte may see him as the creative link in his midfield, able to play box-to-box unlike Cesc Fabregas. With N’Golo Kante and Tiemoue Bakayoko alongside him, Barkley could make up one of the most imposing midfield trios in the Premier League. But Conte will demand discipline. Barkley frustrated Ronald Koeman throughout last season, yet it seems the Italian manager believes he can get the best out of him.
When Chelsea sold Nemanja Matic to Manchester United for £40 million, it came as a surprise to many that Danny Drinkwater was identified as his replacement. The Leicester City man won the title alongside Kante in 2016 but, like the rest of the Foxes, failed to live up to the performance last season. But with Chelsea competing on four fronts this season, returning to the Champions League, Conte is in need of back-up in midfield. At the moment, he has three central midfielders in Kante, Fabregas and Bakayoko but needs reinforcements, and Conte sees Drinkwater’s industrious efforts as fitting with his own work ethos.


A heavy sigh of relief was almost audible across Merseyside on Monday as Ousmane Dembele was unveiled 1,150 miles away in Catalonia as FC Barcelona’s record signing.
Liverpool has little to do with the deal, but therein lies the comfort for  Jurgen Klopp and his team. The fear at Anfield this summer has been that Barcelona’s big unveiling would be centered around  Philippe Coutinho, the jewel in Klopp’s team last season.
Instead,  Coutinho remains a  Liverpool player, set to be inserted back into the team when he finally recovers from a back injury. But could there be a last-minute twist to the plot? Here,  Newsweek  looks at why everything still points toward Coutinho playing at the Camp Nou by September.
Coutinho is yet to play a minute of football for Liverpool this season. Down to injury, the club say. The official line is that the Brazilian midfielder is struggling with a pain in his back, which has kept him sidelined and away from the pitch so far this campaign. So it came as quite a surprise—or possibly not so great—for Liverpool fans to see images of Coutinho training with Brazilian teammates ahead of the international break. Just two days after missing the 4-0 win against Arsenal, the 25-year-old was ready to train for the national team with Brazil saying he is fit to play.
Having sold Neymar to Paris Saint-Germain for £198 million (about $257 million), Barcelona was seeking a replacement. Dembele and Coutinho were the two names put forward as potential candidates. Now, 20-year-old Dembele looks to have been that man, after Barca paid £135 million (about $175 million) for the former Borussia Dortmund man. But Barcelona’s pursuit of Coutinho is far from over. The Catalan club reportedly never viewed Coutinho as Neymar’s replacement, but rather Andres Iniesta’s. The 33-year-old midfielder is gracefully heading into the twilight years of his career, and Barcelona and new manager Ernesto Valverde want Coutinho to be his replacement.
Related:   Liverpool to Hijack Arsenal Deal in Late £75 Million Swoop
“We hope to present another player before the end of the month,” Robert Fernandez, Barcelona’s technical director,  said. “My intention is for one player to come or maybe two, if possible. I won’t go into names but I admit that the club is working on the possibility of signing new players.”
From being the brightest light in the Liverpool team, Klopp may now find it difficult to find a place for Coutinho in his startling line-up. Few players have begun the season better than Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino; fewer still have eased into a new team as seamlessly as Mohamed Salah, who moved to Anfield from Roma for £34 million ($44 million) this summer. Mane has three goals in three leagues games, while Firmino and Salah both have two apiece. So who makes way for Coutinho’s return? Liverpool fans also wouldn’t be best pleased with the Brazilian’s desire to leave, with uncertainty surrounding how the supporters would react should Coutinho be in the team for the trip to Manchester City on September 9.


For the neutral, Liverpool’s demolition of Arsenal on Sunday at Anfield was sadly free of much drama.
Sure, there was enjoyment to be had in Liverpool’s blistering attack, somewhere in the hinterland between a saber and a sledgehammer, some diversion in the interplay between Roberto Firmino, Sadio Mane and new signing Mohamed Salah, in the artful muscularity of Emre Can.
And there was the commentary of Gary Neville. Neville, the former Manchester United defender who has become one of English football’s most respected and forensic analysts, rarely tried to hide his distaste for United’s great rival Liverpool during his successful playing career.
On Sunday, though, it was Arsenal’s listless performance that attracted Neville’s ire. Apparently growing increasingly frustrated through a one-sided first half, Neville let fly with some zingers.
"I'm absolutely fuming watching them [Arsenal]. It's ridiculous some of the things you see from them," Neville said on commentary for Sky Sports, as reported by The Telegraph. "I'm not a Liverpool fan but this Arsenal team deserve a battering.
"I'd stick them all up on the transfer list. Some of these Arsenal players want a move. Who would buy them?"
Neville reserved his pithiest remark for Aaron Ramsey, the Arsenal central midfielder who put in a particularly ineffectual performance against Liverpool.
“They took Aaron Ramsey off, which is a shame because he would have been my man of the match… So I could get the post-match interview with him.” Ouch.
Still, it looks as though several Arsenal players will get moves away from Emirates Stadium in the remaining few days of the transfer window. Chelsea has reportedly agreed a fee for Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, while Alexis Sanchez was linked on Tuesday morning with a move to Manchester City. Raheem Sterling could head the other way, though he should be prepared to become the subject of Neville’s brilliantly barbed analysis.


There's an endearing distinctiveness to Conor McGregor's swagger. It's not his strut—chest puffed out, arms half-raised as though anticipating a TSA patdown on his way to the ring. Nor is it his sartorial style—the outsized shades and flashy three-piece suits that call to mind an upwardly mobile loan shark.
No. It's the lower face: the constant, contemptuous gum chewing. The jutting jaw, as solid and tested as a blacksmith's anvil. The lips that don't so much smile as offer an affable warning of lurking menace.
Yes, Conor McGregor is all mouth.
His well-rehearsed swagger had been on obnoxious display for months before the Irishman finally climbed through the ropes at the T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas to face Floyd Mayweather Jr. in a Saturday night pay-per-view spectacular that pitted Ultimate Fighting's biggest star against one of boxing's all-time greats.
Even at age 40 and retired for two years, Mayweather cuts a fearsome figure in a boxing ring. He was a perfect 49-0 in his career, having vanquished every notable fighter of his era within his weight class. He had nothing to prove against McGregor, but the promise of a $100 million payday to fight a non-boxer was too much to resist for a man who, according to Forbes, may owe $30 million in taxes. (That’s what McGregor took home for his efforts Saturday night.)
To serious fight fans and more than a few medical professionals, this woeful mismatch threatened to be a Saturday night massacre.
What McGregor lacked in boxing credentials he made up for in showmanship. During the prefight publicity routine he goaded Mayweather with gusto. "I'm a 170-pound Irish gorilla," he announced. "I'm going to rip his head off and play football with it."
But as Harambe found, even exceedingly popular gorillas can be felled by ruthless marksmen.
All weekend, the Las Vegas Strip was awash with McGregor fans, many with tricolor Irish flags draped around their necks, and even more sporting faces reddened by triple-digit temperatures—such that the Irish seldom experience outside a crematorium. Few had tickets to the main attraction, and most didn't seem to care. McGregor is one of their own made good, a man who literally fought his way out of Dublin's inner city and is loudly fuckin’ proud of it—as are his fans, who came to Vegas for the spectacle, even if they had to enjoy it at casino viewing parties rather than at T-Mobile Arena, where even $10,000 couldn't buy them a seat close enough to hear cheekbones breaking.
The mobs of over-served fans roaming the Strip while their hero was facing certain defeat made it a good bet that the night's most competitive fights would be seen on closed-circuit security cameras rather than pay-per-view. Yet the vibe remained good-humored before the main event. Local Vegas TV news shows surrounded the visitors, every one of whom confidently predicted a McGregor victory, albeit offering no support for this position other than his Irish passport. (This easy sentimentality—and whiskey—may explain why my people have never had an empire.)
"He's the king, and kings have an army. That's us!" said one fan outside the arena, his arms finding support on the shoulders of his equally enthusiastic friends. Up and down the Strip that army marched, all in green but none camouflaged. Many of its soldiers, the men and the women, looked as though they'd had plenty of experience landing punches.
McGregor's arrival in the arena was met with rapturous cheers by a crowd blind to the inconvenient fact that his credentials as a fighter weren't earned by observing the Marquis of Queensberry's rules. The UFC is like a semiprofessional bar brawl, with many deft and deafening kicks to the head. McGregor isn't the type to defer to English nobility on matters of the fist.
By the time McGregor and Mayweather left their corners for the start of round 1, a large segment of the crowd had convinced itself that an epic upset was in the offing, a delusion fueled by beer and a flurry of early punches from McGregor. But mostly beer.
On several occasions in the early going, the Dubliner openly mocked Mayweather, placing both hands behind his back and sticking out his jaw. That got his devotees hooting gleefully, proving that sport can make even the most jaded of fans happily whistle past the graveyard.
With each toll of the bell for the next round, it became more apparent that McGregor was tiring badly, while his more seasoned opponent hadn't even moved into high gear. Mayweather circled his prey, knowing that all he had to do was wait until even the showmanship was exhausted.
Starting in the fifth round, McGregor adopted a "brokeback boxing" strategy, hugging his opponent tightly to avoid receiving blows to his skull and spleen. Rather like admirers of the owner of the nearby gaudy Trump Casino, it was apparent to all but the most diehard believers than their man was ill-equipped for such proximity to power.
In the last fight of the undercard, Gervonta Davis had defeated Francisco Fonseca, aided by a punch to the back of Fonseca's head. The crowd had furiously jeered the illegal blow, but many of those same folks cheered when McGregor landed similar thumps to the back of Mayweather's head. It was about all their man had left, and they knew it.
By the eighth round, the most feared man in the UFC was scuffling with all the ferocity and accuracy of a middle manager arguing with a colleague at after-work cocktails.
In the 10th round, a fusillade of blows from Mayweather forced the referee to end things. With that TKO, Mayweather improved his record to 50-0, an impressive tally that does not include his numerous assaults against women outside the ropes that have resulted in arrests or citations.
When it was over, McGregor slouched against the ropes, battered and bruised, but still steadier on his feet than most of his supporters. It was, his fans gamely declared, a very respectable performance. In Vegas, the fight game is more about entertainment than sporting achievement, and they had been entertained. Perhaps so too had the many viewers who paid $99 to make this the most lucrative pay-per-view event in history.
That this ludicrous mismatch lasted into the 10th round—and that so many were willing to spend so much to see so little—will inevitably fuel calls for a rematch. It was already on the minds of fans as they wandered into the scorching Nevada night. "They have to fight again!" one tricolor-draped man shouted to no one in particular. "We'll make it UFC rules next time."
Eamon Lynch is a writer and editor based in New York City
 


There has been a darkness over Stamford Bridge over the last three months, an ominous cloud that made that day in May, when John Terry and Gary Cahill lifted the Premier League trophy, seem like a distant memory. But not on Sunday. No, on Sunday, as Everton traveled to west London, the sky was blue, the sun shone and scorched. Chelsea was red hot. 
Alvaro Morata is excelling in difficult circumstances since moving from Madrid to London for a club record fee this summer. After playing a role in both goals in the 2-0 win over Everton, assisting then scoring, Morata has already shown his potential for the champions. Willian and Pedro caused the Everton back line problems all afternoon, while Cesc Fabregas dictated from midfielder for the hosts. Admittedly, Everton made it look easy for Chelsea. Ronald Koeman’s team, which has hopes of Champions League football next season, struggled to truly worry Antonio Conte’s team. 
Here, Newsweek looks at five things we learned as Chelsea looked back to its title-winning best on Sunday: 
Even though it may not look like it this season, Antonio Conte’s life has gotten easier already this summer. The Italian has had a slight moan about the lack of signings at Stamford Bridge and admitted there were times his future in west London was in doubt. But there were two key reasons why Conte is happier this season, and they were sat behind him at Stamford Bridge on Sunday. Elisabetta Conte, the Chelsea manager’s wife, and their daughter Vittoria have moved to London this summer. “Honestly for sure this season wasn't easy for me about my family, because we decided my wife and my daughter would stay in Italy to allow my daughter to finish school," Conte said in May. They both sat behind the dugout for the Everton match, Conte’s daughter wearing a Chelsea shirt with "Champions 17" on the back. 
Ever since arriving in England, the pressure has been on for Alvaro Morata. With Diego Costa awol and refusing to return to west London, Morata is Chelsea’s main man in attack, a role he has not been used to at either Real Madrid or Juventus. The 24-year-old has shown his potential already, scoring and assisting in his debut against Burnley, but also missing a sitter in the victory over Tottenham at Wembley last weekend. Here, he was surrounded. An Everton back three consisted of Michael Keane, Ashley Williams and Phil Jagielka, covered by a defensive midfield of Idrissa Gueye and Tom Davies. But when the ball spilled out to Cesar Azipilcueta with five minutes remaining of the first half, and the Spaniard whipped in an inviting, arching cross, Morata was unchallenged. He leapt high and directed his header past Jordan Pickford. After setting up Cesc Fabregas for the first goal, Morata already has two assists and two goals to his name at Stamford Bridge. Diego who? 
Everton, so far, has been the surprise package in the transfer window so far this summer. The Merseyside club has backed Ronald Koeman, opening up the purse as wide as can be, sparking talk of whether the Toffees can mount a top-four challenge. But even though the core of the team may be considerably stronger, with Keane in defense, Pickford in goal, plus Sigurdsson and Wayne Rooney supporting the attack, there is still no replacement for Romelu Lukaku. Sandro, signed from Malaga, is an industrious forward but not once did he concern the Chelsea defense. Dominic Calvert-Lewin impressed in the draw with Manchester City last weekend and had a positive cameo here, but he is still only 20 years old. Koeman knows that, and he also knows how much Everton will miss Lukaku. The purse will need to be dipped into further in the next four days if those top-four dreams are to be any more than just that. 
After scoring a stunning goal from 50 yards in the Europa League on Thursday night, Gylfi Sigurdsson’s Premier League debut wasn’t quite so thrilling. The Icelandic midfielder, a club record signing, started on the left of the attack for Everton but barely had any involvement in the game. Everton paid £44 million for his creativity, but he needs the support. The introduction of Calvert-Lewin and Aaron Lennon breathed life into Everton and aided Sigurdsson, but Koeman knows his new star man will need more. 
At Wembley last weekend, Chelsea was dominated by Tottenham while also showing a sense of control. Conte’s team can win ugly; we know that. But, here, with Fabregas back in the line-up, playing at home, Conte put his team out to dominate—and it did just that. Chelsea enjoyed more possession, had 12 more shots than the opposition, and seven more on target. The champion looked back to its best, dynamic and adaptable. The sun is once again shining over Chelsea and Conte. 


José Mourinho has overseen a dominant start to the season for Manchester United in the Premier League.
Mourinho can be pretty happy about United’s prospects for the Champions League, too. In the draw in Nyon, Switzerland, on Thursday evening, United drew Benfica, the Portuguese champions, CSKA Moscow and Basel.
Benfica, as is customary, lost several of its best players this summer. United should be too strong for Basel across both legs, although a trip to Moscow on September 27 presents some difficulty. United has a Premier League game three days later, at home against Crystal Palace.
Tottenham Hotspur was handed undoubtedly the hardest draw of the five English clubs in the competition. Mauricio Pochettino’s team looks the third-strongest in its group, behind Real Madrid and Borussia Dortmund. APOEL Nicosia should provide some relief, although the Cypriots reached the Champions League quarterfinals in 2011-12, where they were beaten 8-2 on aggregate by Real.
Chelsea should make it through Group C, but Antonio Conte’s team has the potential to slip up, perhaps in the away tie against Eusebio Di Francesco’s dangerous A.S. Roma side. Diego Simeone’s Atletico Madrid is competing under a transfer ban and has begun the new La Liga campaign slowly. Chelsea will also have to travel to Qarabag. The Azerbaijanis are competing in the Champions League for the first time in their history.
Manchester City is in Group F, with Shakhtar Donetsk, Napoli and Feyenoord. Napoli can present a dizzying array of attacking talents, and no team will relish a visit to a rocking Stadio San Paolo. Liverpool should finish at least as runners-up in Group E behind Sevilla, provided Jürgen Klopp’s team can avoid calamitous defensive mistakes. Liverpool’s pace and precision in attack, at least, should be more than enough to see off Spartak Moscow and Maribor.


When the dust settled over Comerica Park on Thursday evening, the Detroit Tigers had denied the New York Yankees a series sweep with a 9-6 victory, denting the chances of Joe Girardi’s team catching the Boston Red Sox to win the American League East.
The result, though, is about the last thing anyone is going to remember from Major League Baseball’s wildest game of the season so far.
Five players, both managers and a bench coach were ejected from the game after a bench-clearing brawl that began with a confrontation between Yankees catcher Austin Romine and Tigers slugger Miguel Cabrera.
“Began” here is something of a misnomer, as often seems to be the case in baseball where tensions are allowed to fester and mutate for months between series. MLB.com noted that the Yankees and Tigers began to stew on July 31 when Tommy Kahnle, the Yankees pitcher, hit the Tigers’ Mike Mahtook on the helmet with a fastball. In the next inning, Tigers pitcher Michael Fulmer hit Jacoby Ellsbury.
And so to downtown Detroit, almost a month later, and a demonstration that baseball players have unusually long memories. Fulmer, the starting pitcher for the Tigers, hit Gary Sanchez in the fifth inning, on the hands. Then Kahnle threw a ball behind Cabrera’s back, leading to his immediate ejection. Girardi came stomping out to protest; the Yankees manager, too, was ejected, before Romine and Cabrera began jawing and throwing punches. In the melee that followed, Sanchez appeared to aim punches at Cabrera in the pile, a decision that will almost certainly lead to a multiple-game suspension for the Yankees catcher and sometime Designated Hitter.
That wasn’t even the end of it. After Cabrera and Romine had been ejected, Yankees closing pitcher Dellin Betances struck James McCann in the helmet at 98 miles per hour. Betances and Yankees bench coach Rob Thomson were both ejected. In the eighth inning, Tigers relief pitcher Alex Wilson hit Todd Frazier, leading to his ejection and another clearing of the benches.
It’s just as well, perhaps, that the Yankees and Tigers will not meet again this season.
 
Benches clear, punches thrown in Yankees-Tigers game with Miguel Cabrera and Austin Romine at the center of it. https://t.co/g32ygLF1cz pic.twitter.com/QMsJ5fEDQO
 



It is said that God created the world in six days, so Antonio Conte’s request to get two deals over the line at Chelsea by transfer deadline day shouldn’t be too hard.
The  Blues boss is the most active manager in the Premier League as the countdown begins to the window closing on August 31.
Conte wants two more signings to join his  Chelsea squad, but he’s not the only manager still looking to completes deals. Here,  Newsweek  looks at all the news and rumors circling the Premier League transfer market:
Conte, the Italian coach, has grown confident over the club’s chances of capturing  Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain from Arsenal by the time the window closes, according to the  Daily Telegraph. The 24-year-old midfielder’s club has to accept that it will have to sell this summer or face losing him for free next year, the  Daily Mirror says.
But Conte also wants another striker at Chelsea, someone to support summer signing Álvaro Morata. Ever since he moved to Stamford Bridge last summer, Conte has wanted to sign Spanish striker  Fernando Llorente, and now may be the time, according to the  Daily Telegraph. The 32-year-old Swansea City striker has worked with Conte before, during his time at Juventus.
Manchester City has finally given up hope on signing Monaco’s 18-year-old sensation  Kylian Mbappé, according to  The Sun, as the Frenchman looks destined to move to Paris Saint-Germain. City had been willing to spend £150 million (about $176 million) on the signing.
Related:   Chelsea Rocked By Bid For Star Player From Barcelona
But there may be one more player yet coming through the door at the Etihad Stadium in the next six days. City has not,  The Times says, given up on the signing of West Bromwich Albion defender  Jonny Evans, and will launch a third bid worth £25 million (about $32 million).
Crystal Palace is interested in signing Tottenham Hotspur’s second choice goalkeeper  Michel Vorm, according to the  London Evening Standard. New Palace manager Frank de Boer wants to play a more attractive style of football and sees Vorm, a skillful goalkeeper, as key to that.
And finally, England’s 37-year-old veteran  Robert Green may be back in the Premier League soon. The former West Ham goalkeeper, currently with Leeds, is wanted by newly promoted Huddersfield Town, according to the  Daily Mail.


LeBron James fired off a tweetstorm Thursday, ostensibly about fans burning jerseys, but it all got at something bigger—a double standard in the NBA. 
Players are supposed to be loyal, but teams have no such responsibility, and, in fact, are often lauded for being ruthless in their personnel decisions.
The Cavs star was responding to videos of what seemed to be (more on that in a moment) Boston Celtics fans burning the jersey of Isaiah Thomas, the pint-size superstar who was shipped to Cleveland as part of a blockbuster trade for James’s former teammate, Kyrie Irving. 
Here’s what he posted in a series of five tweets (read from the bottom up):
LeBron James called out fans for burning jerseys in a series of tweets Thursday August 24, 2017.   Twitter/Screenshot/Lebron James (@KingJames)
The whole jersey-burning thing—a played-out trope that should have been played out before it even began—kicked off years ago, back when James departed Cleveland for Miami in 2010 following the infamous broadcast on ESPN dubbed “The Decision.” Fans were legitimately angry and burned Cavs jerseys with James’s name on it. It was probably a bit much, but at least at the time it was somewhat novel. Now, any time a player leaves a team, some jamoke with a lighter rushes to set a shirt on fire. 
As many have pointed out, burning the jersey of a player has become a cheap ploy for folks desperate to go viral. And as James noted, Thomas was traded for Chrisake, meaning he had absolutely no choice in the matter. 
But the fact that anyone could somehow transfer some sort of rage to Thomas gets at an NBA truth—one that the players themselves are increasingly aware of—that we demand loyalty of players, somehow, yet expect none from the franchises. As LeBron put it, players get called “coward” for leaving a team yet when the franchise callously jettisons a player past their prime, it’s just “business.”
The NBA is a business, and the 2017 offseason has, in many ways been defined by players using their power to their advantage. The league is defined by superstars who can increasingly take control of the shape of their careers, something LeBron shone a light on with his choice in 2010. A brief recap of the splashiest moves this offseason: Paul George used his leverage as a top talent to force his way out of Indiana, Chris Paul maneuvered his way to Houston, Jimmy Butler was shipped to Minnesota, Gordon Hayward signed with the Celtics and, finally, Irving demanded out of Cleveland and ended up in Boston. Most, if not all, of those moves were initiated by the star players indicating they wanted something new. 
The players—the roughly top 20 players in the league, at least—have more power than ever and they’re using it. Good! They’re already not getting paid what they’re worth because of an arbitrary maximum salary limit, they should at the very least be permitted to play in the circumstances they prefer. The NBA is a massive $8 billion business that’s growing largely because of its best players.
Those players are not without obligations: Their job is to be very good at basketball, but not to be very good at basketball for one team forever-and-ever, amen. Loyalty is great—but it’s a two-way street. Consider that Thomas was traded at all (and briefly forget the idiocy of burning his jersey for that fact). The 5-foot-9-inch point guard was a sports god in Boston, as beloved as any athlete since the Red Sox’s David Ortiz. The Ringer’s Editor-in-Chief Bill Simmons (and the most famous Boston sports guy) put it like this on his podcast immediately following the trade: 
“Isaiah Thomas, who becomes a folk hero in Boston—every kid under age 15 has his jersey, he has this unbelievable season, he’s an MVP candidate last season, he gets hurt, he plays hurt in the playoffs, has a tragic death of his sister, plays through it anyway, we go through an emotional roller-coaster ride, they finally shut him down in round three, bled Celtic green.... Now he’s gone. We have to start there, right? That’s the biggest thing in all this.”
If a team can unceremoniously dump someone who meant so much to the franchise then it’s preposterous to expect players to feel any real sense of loyalty. 
It’s nonsense that we—the royal we referring to fans, Twitter trolls, blowhards on TV—get all bent out of shape when players leave but hardly ever direct our anger so fiercely at franchises for, say, not creating a team with a modicum of hope of winning a championship. In a reasonable world, we wouldn’t get mad at players who did an amazing job then decided to do that job somewhere else. No, in a reasonable world, if there must be ritual burnings, Knicks fans would be sewing together makeshift James Dolan jerseys and blazing those suckers in perpetuity. 


On Sunday afternoon, Manchester United’s Twitter account posted an image of Zlatan Ibrahimovic smiling, dressed in the Red Devils’ new kit. “He’s not finished yet,” the post said, as it announced his new deal.  
Ibrahimovic is returning to  Old Trafford on a one-year contract, teaming up with Romelu Lukaku, Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial in  Jose Mourinho’s lethal attack.
He is an ominous addition to the squad.  United is the early frontrunner in the top tier of English football, winning both the opening two games of the season 4-0, against West Ham and Swansea. Already tipped for the title, Ibrahimovic’s return has enthused  Manchester United fans even further. How could it be beaten now?
But this season will be different for the 35-year-old Swede. He was the savior last season for  Mourinho and his men, scoring 28 goals for United that took the team to three trophies—the Community Shield, League Cup and Europa League.
Now, he’s not the main man up front. Manchester United spent £75 million (about $98 million) to bring Lukaku to Old Trafford from Everton this summer, and he is already repaying the faith, having scored three times in the opening two games.
Related:   Paul Pogba Tempts Fate as He Sends Ominous Message to Man United’s Rivals
And here, the questions begin to arise. Will Ibrahimovic and Lukaku play together? No, probably not, given the similarity in style and Mourinho’s preference for one striker in his team. Will they share the role then? Again, it’s unlikely given the Belgian’s start to the season and his desire to be the main man at Old Trafford.
So, how does Ibrahimovic react to spending the majority of the season on the bench? Does he mentor Lukaku, the lion raising a young cub, or will this leave him disgruntled? The "great" Ibrahimovic, who has been the star everywhere he has gone, sat watching from the sidelines.
There was, of course, one club where the Swede was not the focal point of the team. Under Pep Guardiola at Barcelona, the team was built around Lionel Messi, and it didn’t end well for Ibrahimovic and Guardiola’s relationship.
“You bought a Ferrari and drove it like a Fiat,” the striker said of his former manager. With Ibrahimovic turning 36 in October, will United be able to manage him into a purring, classic car or will his presence bring the Mourinho machine crashing to a halt? 


Let me tell you a bit about the course where I learned—taught myself, really—to play golf during my high school years.
It cost 10 bucks to play—that is, if you didn’t sneak on the property through a clearing in the woods behind the green on No. 2. There was a pond on the course, but it was fenced off and seemed to function as a water-treatment plant rather than a trap for golfers. Your ball was sooner to be impeded by a drained bottle of Smirnoff than a sand trap. Basketball shorts, T-shirts, a cut-sleeve polo—you read that correctly, a cut-sleeve polo—were all considered golfing attire. I've since graduated to nicer but still modest public courses that will run you anywhere from $25 to $75 to play. But even those are a far cry from the manicured lawns of Liberty National, a luxe,  uber-exclusive golf club that cost $250 million to build in Jersey City, New Jersey, that I was given a chance to play before it hosts the best professional golfers in the world for the Presidents Cup next month.
Golfing is seen as a hobby for old, rich (largely white) dudes—data shows more than a quarter of all hobbyist golfers make at least $125,000 and the average (average!) PGA Tour viewer is 64 years old—but my retort to this typically is: It doesn’t have to be. If it’s possible for there to be an Average Joe golfer, I’m him. I play on the weekends with normal folks, using gear I bought refurbished or on sale. I’m aggressively mediocre at the sport—I don’t really track my handicap but shoot anywhere from an 85 to a 100 on a typical 18 holes—but enjoy the challenge of the game and the peace of getting outside. And I’d argue there is no feeling in sport as pure as the poetic joy of visualizing a shot, then having your body somehow make it happen. It doesn't hurt that while you do that, you can also drive around carts and drink beer with friends in the sunshine for four hours or so. 
But this all kind of goes to say that Liberty National, which boasts sweeping, panoramic views of the Manhattan skyline and the Statue of Liberty, is way outside my norm. I’m obsessive about the game and watch the PGA Tour relentlessly, but that was a golf world sort of separate from the one in which I existed. But I found myself there to play a round alongside other media members and corporate sponsors and honestly, I was nervous. I hadn’t golfed all summer before I got the invite last week and was able to squeeze in just one practice round. I’d be going in cold and completely unaware of what to expect. Liberty National, in its normal state, was already nicer than any course I’ve ever played or will likely ever play again. To make matters more frightening, I was playing it as it was in the process of getting revamped for the top golfers around the world, meaning narrower fairways, greens as smooth as glass and greater distances to travel to get to the hole. It was a beautiful, difficult course with the volume turned up to 11. So I felt a bit like a fraud as I rolled into the Cadillac-laden valet area in an Uber and attended a press conference before the golfing portion of the day began.
A scenic view of the 14th hole during previews at Liberty National Golf Club, host course of the 2017 Presidents Cup, in Jersey City, New Jersey, on August 21.   Stan Badz/PGA Tour/Getty Images
I attempted to calm myself at the driving range—equipped with pristine Bermuda grass and pearly white Titlist Pro V1 practice balls—but I flubbed shot after shot, barely able to lift the ball off the ground. I did that thing where you feign frustration and mutter soft-but-not-too-soft grievances like “God, what is happening,” in an attempt to let people nearby know you’re not this terrible despite knowing in your heart you’re precisely that terrible. My hands were slick with sweat. I’m not really sure why I was so nervous, but it felt like it had something to do with getting laughed off the course, discovered as a guy who definitely didn’t belong.
But off the range and sitting in a golf cart with my playing partner, an editor at NJ.com, I was relieved to learn we’d be playing a shamble-style round, which meant myself, my partner and a third player in a different cart would each tee off at every hole and then the three of us would complete the hole from the spot where the best of the three tee-shots landed. So basically as long as one of us started the hole decently, we’d be okay. I was also relieved to learn we’d be playing from the member tees and not the tournament tees, which effectively meant my shots wouldn’t have to travel as far as, say, world No. 3 Jordan Spieth might hit them. (Side note: Spieth happened to start a practice round at Liberty National during the aforementioned press events, and I can confirm he absolutely bombed his shot.)
Jordan Spieth, Jim Furyk, Presidents Cup U.S. team captain Steve Stricker and Charley Hoffman play shots on the sixth hole during previews at Liberty National Golf Club, host course of the 2017 Presidents Cup, in Jersey City, New Jersey, on August 21, 2017.   Stan Badz/PGA Tour/Getty Images
My group started the day on Liberty National’s signature hole, which will be hole No. 10 when the pros play the Presidents Cup. It’s a short par 3—meaning it should take three shots to complete—set to the backdrop of the Manhattan skyline and the Statue of Liberty shimmering above the Hudson River. I nervously clutched my pitching wedge, took an exaggeratedly deep breath, addressed my ball and promptly shanked that sonuvabitch about 15 feet into a dense swampy area.  Shit. I three putted from where the best shot ended up, just off the green. So, by the weird, modified rules, I ended up with a very fake bogey. All the while I took diligent notes on what happened on each shot, which proved to be the beginning of a very embarrassing document.
I tried to clear my mind before heading into the second hole. Our caddie, a supremely helpful young man named Davis, suggested an aiming on the 423-yard par 4. I pulled out my driver then clunked my shot off the heel of the club. I cringed as my ball clanked off a half-built riser—presumably where fans will watch the pros launch much better shots—no more than 15 yards away. I took a six on the hole.
It wasn’t until the fourth hole that I managed to hit a decent shot, when somehow my drive was the best out of the group’s three attempts. I wasn’t sure, exactly, what I did to correct my swing but felt a brief pang of joy that I didn’t completely suck. That didn’t last. I lined up my next shot from the fairway and hit the ball directly into the trees.
At this point, most of my fears about the day are coming true. I looked at Davis—who, throughout my struggles, displayed the patience of a monk who received total consciousness—and I felt like a fraud. He kindly doled out tidbits of advice—how far left to aim putts or how much to correct for wind gusts—but I couldn’t help but wonder if he was thinking all the while, “What the hell is this jabroni doing here, last week I caddied for Ray Romano, goddamn it.”
My notes for the fifth hole read, “Almost killed Davis.” I hit a screaming line drive off the tee of the par 4. Davis stood off to the side of the fairway so he could spot where our groups’ shots landed. My ball whistled directly at Davis’s head, and he stared it down like Neo stopping bullets in The Matrix. Panicked, I shouted, “HEADS UP, DAVIS HEADS UP,” somehow forgetting in golf you yell “Fore!” to alert folks of an errant drive. At the last second, Davis sidestepped the little white projectile. Behind me, a crew laughed as they set up what appeared to be a television set. Davis later told me he saw it all along, but I’m not sure if I believe him. I bogeyed the hole. 

I stooge my way through a third of my round before, weirdly, despite my struggles, I started to realize that I could potentially hack my way through the course. Sure, the margin for error was thinner, and a small mistake on the course was amplified, but everything was so nicely maintained—the fairways could pass as greens—that you don’t have to deal with some of the randomness of an average course. On my typical public course, any given shot might bounce off a stray rock, sink into muddy grass, take a weird roll on a shoddy green, or run up against any number of weird chance encounters. Liberty National was like playing on a clean, perfect slate—it was difficult but remarkably fair, a stern but even-keeled judge.
By the 11th hole I again feared I had physically harmed a human being with my utter lack of ability to do anything right. I hit an errant shot toward a crew constructing bleachers. At the same time my ball was set to land, a metallic ping  rang out and I briefly thought I hit a guy. Luckily, after hearing a few more pings, I ascertained it was just a hammer. I finished the hole 14 shots over par for the day.
It was about here I felt free, not even embarrassed. Both of my playing partners had hit some bad shots as well, which selfishly made me feel better. But I also realized that unless journalism starts paying a lot—and I mean A. LOT.—better, than I might never get the chance to play at a country club like Liberty National again. I decided I was going to soak it in.
The 14th hole my notes simply read: “Utter collapse.”
The 15th hole I hit a nice drive.

In an almost cruel fashion, the 17th and 18th holes remind me why I torture myself by playing golf. I have a theory about the game: One good hole a day is what keeps everyone coming back. All it takes is piecing it all together one time out of 18 attempts to make you pay to play again the next weekend.
I hit a perfect drive on 17, and my playing partner cried out, “Shot of the day!” then told me, as I went to take notes, that it was “inspired by Ron.” (His name was Ron, and, Ron, you’re welcome.) The entire group hit their next shot from where my drive ended and I somehow landed my second shot about 15 feet from the hole. I missed my birdie putt but made a God’s honest par, no help from the modified rules necessary. I immediately started thinking about playing the next weekend, albeit at a much cheaper course that wouldn’t stop me at the gate on any day besides media day.
On the final hole, I again bombed my drive. It was a par 5 and I decided to attempt to hit my second shot about 220 yards over a massive pond to the green instead of taking a safer option. I asked Davis how dumb my plan was. “You didn't come here to lay up,” he helpfully pointed out. I smashed my ball past the green. Pure euphoria. It took me three shots to end with a par, but I somehow finished the day looking like I kind of knew what the hell I was doing.
For the day my score was a 92, which sounds like it falls directly in my normal range, but considering there were modified rules that made things much, much easier it was pretty abysmal. But as I picked my ball out of the cup on the final hole, I realized I just spent a day of “work” duffing my way around an incredibly fancy golf course. Not half bad.
A view of an official polo at the 2017 Presidents Cup Media Day at Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey City, New Jersey, on August 21.   Rob Kim/Getty Images for Lacoste
I was expecting the golf course to be nice—and of course, it was. But it felt like a different experience entirely from my normal golf routine. Hell, I’d never even had a caddie before.
There were the obvious differences due to the simple fact that the place was gearing up to host an international golf competition. Liberty National was effectively in the process of building what amounts to a miniature city of risers, stands, sponsor tents and luxury boxes.  
But the most surprising thing about being a normal guy at an event held at a course for the uber-rich: Everything was free. A bar serving specialty Grey Goose cocktails handed out not just free drinks and free hats but also free bottles of Grey Goose. A pizza truck gave away slices. Golf carts came pre-equipped with hats, balls and a nametag. A rest-stop house halfway through the course was stocked with beer, sodas, Gatorade and snacks. Lacoste handed out gift cards like Halloween candy.
Keeping with that theme, the organizers issued a challenge for what will be the opening tee of the Presidents Cup in September. Any player at media day whose tee-shot found the fairway would be allowed to take home any polo shirt from the course's shop for free. The hole is a par 4 with a narrow fairway lined on the left by a man-made pond and on the right by thick rough grass. It was the same tee shot that Jordan Spieth crushed down the center of the fairway—oh, and, in case this isn’t incredibly obvious I don’t often see the best golfer in the world when I go golf.  My drive didn’t rival Spieth’s, although at first it looked all right, but then quickly took a hard left turn toward the wet stuff.  Splunk.
I was curious about the free polo I didn’t win, so after I finished my round, I walked back to the club house. It’s a term that conjures images of quaint cottages, but at Liberty National means a sleek, multifloor glass structure. Passing through the bar area, I wandered into the pro shop, found a shirt and turned over the tag. There were no list prices, which let me know they were out of my price range. Heading out of the clubhouse, I saw folks in the lobby passing out more gift bags ahead of a reception later that night. But I had to go to ensure I caught a ferry back to the city before they stopped running.
I hailed an Uber. My driver arrived in a Ford Focus, and as we rumbled down the long path out of the complex she gazed out at the clubhouse. “This is a golf course?” she asked incredulously. 
“Yeah,” I answered. “I usually can't afford to play here.”


Although it would pull the average age of the Cavaliers up considerably, Cleveland may have found a way to ensure LeBron James’ services past 2018.
James, as is well known by now, has the option to skip town next summer, to opt out of his contract with  Cleveland and join a new team. It remains unclear whether or not James is considering that option.
But there are reports that he is unhappy in Cleveland. After losing the NBA Finals to Golden State Warriors, he saw General Manager David Griffin get fired and  Kyrie Irving get traded to the Celtics.  Isaiah Thomas came the other way from Boston, but James is yet to acknowledge his new teammate.
But there is one way in which new General Manager Koby Altman could help secure James’ future at the Quicken Loans Arena, according to reports. Joe Vardon of Cleveland.com says that James wants to join forces with Dwyane Wade again.
Related:   Cavaliers Traded Kyrie Irving For Isaiah Thomas, But the Celtics Man Wasn’t Cleveland’s First Choice
“As of right now, people close to James are fairly confident that, at some point this year, Dwyane Wade is going to end up on the Cavs,” Vardon said on ‘The Wine and Gold Talk Podcast’.
“If Dwyane is healthy and he and LeBron are playing great together and they go on this crazy playoff run, that matters,” he added, referring to James’ decision on whether to stay at the Cavs next summer.
Related:   LeBron James is Asked About New York Knicks Move, and Fails to Deny it
James played with Wade while with the Miami Heat from 2010 through 2014, where the duo won two championships together and reached the NBA Finals each year.
Although there would certainly be experience in the team, at 35 years old Wade would be a player for the here and now. But that may be exactly what the Cavs need right now.


LeBron James has a lot of things on his mind: basketball, businesses and organizing the greatest children’s birthday parties known to man.
So perhaps the NBA star has just forgotten to say a public hello and welcome and all that polite, friendly, essentially meaningless stuff to Isaiah Thomas.
Thomas arrived as a Cleveland Cavalier earlier this week in a blockbuster trade with the Boston Celtics for Kyrie Irving, the man James has described before as a “little brother.”
James has tweeted about Irving since the trade: On Wednesday he urged Cavaliers fans to respect “the kid” Irving for his work in Cleveland, which included helping James to the franchise’s first-ever NBA Championship.
But “The King” has posted nothing about Thomas, the All-Star point guard expected to pick up where Irving left off and then some, by piloting the Cavaliers to another championship. Not on Twitter, where James has posted just once since August 23 about Nike’s Air Zooms. Not on Instagram, where James has posted videos of himself working out in Los Angeles with Cavaliers staff.
Indeed, James hasn’t spoken publicly since the trade, and Cleveland.com has noted he is “keeping mum” on Thomas.
His silence almost certainly doesn’t mean much, of course. James is busy preparing for the new NBA season which begins in October. If anything, he should be pleased that the Cavaliers have got such good value for a player whose desire to be traded was such public knowledge. In addition to Thomas, whose statistics from last season match up very well to Irving’s, the Cavaliers received a first-round draft pick in 2018, Ante Zizic and Jae Crowder.
The longer James goes without saying anything about Thomas, though, the more people are going to talk. Like it or not, James has a new sidekick and he is going to have to acknowledge him soon.


Paul Pogba has warned the rest of the Premier League that Manchester United is not “scared of anyone” and is capable of winning the title this season, according to reports.
Jose Mourinho’s team is the early front-runner in English football’s top division, winning both its first two games of the season 4-0 and sitting top of the  Premier League table.
Pogba, who joined the team last summer for a then-world record £90 million (about $115 million), believes  United is now capable of winning the title for the first time since Sir Alex Ferguson retired.
“I'm pleased and happy that we have started really well, but it is not finished yet,” Pogba told  ESPN. "It is just the start of the season.
“The biggest challengers? We are our own rivals and we think about ourselves first. But we don't have to be scared of anyone in the league because we know we are a strong team as well. We know we can do great this season.
“I hope [we can win the title]. Every team is strong, like when Leicester won it two years ago and nobody expected it, so you don't know what's going to happen.”
Related:   Manchester United Target to Snub Jose Mourinho For Tottenham Hotspur
United’s ominous start to the season has been partly down to Pogba’s impressive performances: Scoring in the first two games, against West Ham and Swansea, as well as adding an assist.
The signing earlier this summer of £40 million (about $51 million) midfielder Nemanja Matic, from Chelsea, has helped ease the defensive duties on Pogba.
“That helps me more be myself,” the 24-year-old said. “I still do the defensive part, but now I can go forward more and help the strikers. I like to be in front of the goals, too.”


Arsene Wenger has publicly reminded Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain of the “time and money” Arsenal has invested in him amid reports of a £35 million (about $45 million) bid from Chelsea.
Antonio Conte, the  Chelsea manager, is looking to bring in a few more signings before the transfer window closes on August 31, and  Oxlade-Chamberlain is high on his list.
The Italian coach sees Oxlade-Chamberlain’s versatility as meaning he would be capable of playing in the wing-back position. But Wenger, who signed the 24-year-old midfielder from Southampton in 2011 for £12 million, wants him to consider the effort  Arsenal has put into his career.
“I want to keep my best players—my only target is to keep everyone on board,” Wenger said, as quoted by the  Daily Mail. “We've invested time and money and confidence on players like Ox and they have a responsibility. I hope he commits.
“I want him to stay at the club and be one of the big players of the future. He is one of the players we want to build around in the future. He will be a big player in this country.  
“I've had to deal with big departures many times, and I always focus on the team and Arsenal. Of course you want to keep your best players, but you have to find a way to survive.”
Related:   Even British Police Are Mocking Arsenal on Twitter Now
Oxlade-Chamberlain featured in Arsenal’s FA Cup final win over Chelsea in May, as well as the Community Shield victory at Wembley earlier this month. But the Englishman is in the final year of his contract at the Emirates Stadium.
Should Arsenal fail to get him to sign a new deal by January, he will be free to speak to any club he wishes in January and sign a pre-contract agreement, leaving north London for free next summer.
Alexis Sanchez, the Chilean forward, is in the same position at Arsenal, and Wenger is desperate not to lose his star players. In 2012, Robin van Persie left Arsenal for Manchester United and won the title the following season.
The possibility of that happening again would be far too painful for Wenger. Pulling on the heartstrings of his players now may be desperate but may just work.  


The basketball world saw another sensational trade this week when Kyrie Irving got his wish, to leave Cleveland for Boston, while Isaiah Thomas went the other way.
Irving issued a trade request earlier this summer, with reports that the point guard wanted to escape the giant shadow of  LeBron James, to be the star of a team.
Many saw Cavs as getting a good deal.  Irving may have asked to leave, but in Thomas new General Manager  Koby Altman now has one of the NBA’s elite scoring point guards. Not a bad start to life in the hot seat.
But things could have been very different had  Cleveland had its way. According to Marc J. Spears of  The Undefeated, Altman put in a call to Cavs' biggest rival Golden State Warriors before completing the deal, inquiring about the possibility of trading Klay Thompson; there was no interest.
Related:   LeBron James is Asked About New York Knicks Move, and Fails to Deny It
Thompson has heard the rumors, and says he is flattered but mainly reassured. “It's really cool. It shows the Warriors believe in me and these other teams want me to be a part of their success. So I appreciate it,” he told  The Athletic.
“I've been in trade rumors forever. Everyone has. Except for maybe LeBron James, Steph [Curry]—well, even Steph early in his career.”
He added: “It's part of the business. It is flattering and I do appreciate it.”
Related:   LeBron James Misunderstanding Led to Kyrie Irving’s Trade Request at Cavs
Meanwhile, as Cavs say goodbye to Irving, James has urged fans to do so in the right, respectable way. Replying to a video on Twitter of a fan thanking Irving, James wrote: “That’s the only way to be to the kid! Special talent/guy! Nothing but respect and what a ride it was our 3 years together.”


In a summer when the lid has consistently threatened to blow off the transfer market, perhaps the most combustible deal is yet to come.
Cristiano Ronaldo began the season with his own explosion: a substitute’s appearance against Barcelona in the Spanish Super Cup that included a superlative long-range goal, a red card and a push of the referee that resulted in a five-game ban he called “incomprehensible.”
Ronaldo rarely seems entirely happy at Real Madrid, of course, perhaps not helped by the fact he is still jeered by sections of the club’s support at the Santiago Bernabeu, despite eight years at the club.
That apparent animosity has led to frequent reports linking Ronaldo with a transfer away from the Spanish capital. The latest comes from Spanish newspaper El Pais and the Daily Mirror, which claims there is “uncertainty” over Ronaldo’s future at Real.
There is reportedly a chance that Ronaldo could leave Real before the end of this summer transfer window, as he has become “angry” at the length of his current ban. If that came to pass then Manchester United, Ronaldo’s former club, would likely go back in to sign the player it lost for a then-world-record transfer fee in the summer of 2009.
“For now, he’s [Ronaldo] just concentrating on playing,” The Mirror quoted a source described as “close to Ronaldo” as saying.
“He is angry about the five-game ban, but he is working just as hard with the team.
“We’ll see what happens in between now and August 31.”
A transfer appears highly unlikely, not least because the summer of 2017 has seen Real move definitively ahead of Barcelona due to the latter’s loss of Neymar to Paris Saint-Germain. The departure of Ronaldo, especially so late in the transfer window, could redress the imbalance.
However, it’s also worth pointing out the enduring mutual love and appreciation between Ronaldo and United and its supporters. Despite Ronaldo’s progression at Real into one of the finest footballers of all time, the sense persists that Old Trafford is the venue to which he belonged best. Perhaps those emotional ties could yet lead to the biggest transfer of an already overheated summer.


Just one week remains for Premier League clubs to complete last-minute business in the transfer window.
After August 31, the opportunity will be closed for four months, until January, so there is quite a bit of speculation around this morning about comings and goings.
Here,  Newsweek  guides you through all the news, rumors and whispers swirling around the Premier League:
Chelsea has been rocked as  The Times reports that Barcelona will make a late bid for 29-year-old Brazilian winger  Willian, who has been the best player for Antonio Conte’s team so far this season.
But  Chelsea is trying to complete some deals of its own. According to the  Daily Telegraph,  Conte’s team has made a new £35 million bid for Arsenal winger  Alex Oxlade Chamberlain. The 24-year-old is in the final year of his contract at the Emirates Stadium.
Chamberlain is not the only Arsenal player of interest to clubs. Italian team Inter Milan has made an offer for German defender  Shkodran Mustafi, planning a season-long loan with a view to a £20 million deal the following season, the  Daily Mirror says.
After completing the signing of center back  Davinson Sanchez and goalkeeper  Paulo Gazzaniga, Tottenham is considering some more deals before the window closes. According to  TalkSport, Mauricio Pochettino’s team is preparing a new offer for Lazio forward  Keita Balde Diao, a player also linked with a move to Juventus.
Related:   The Four Major Issues Chelsea Must Address Before Transfer Deadline Day
The  same newspaper also says that  Jonny Evans’ move to Manchester City from West Brom looks likely to be completed next week, with a fee in the region of £30 million.
West Ham is considering a bid for Sunderland midfielder  Didier Ndong, according to the  Sunderland Echo, but Slaven Bilic’s team is yet to make an offer for the 23-year-old.
If you thought the Neymar deal was big, there is potential for this summer to go even bigger. According to  The Sun,  Lionel Messi’s father has been in talks with Manchester City about a potential move from Barcelona this summer.
And finally, former Liverpool goalkeeper  Pepe Reina could be on his way from Italy to France. The 34-year-old Napoli goalkeeper is wanted by Paris Saint Germain, according to  AS.


Liverpool playmaker Philippe Coutinho is considering releasing a public statement about his desire to leave Anfield for Barcelona, according to reports.
The Brazilian midfielder has been the subject of interest from  Barcelona ever since it sold Neymar to Paris Saint Germain for £198 million (about $251 million).
Coutinho has been at the top of the Catalan club’s wish list, and it has been willing to pay great sums to see him move to the Camp Nou.
On Wednesday, it was reported that Barcelona was preparing a £136 million (about $174 million) bid for  Coutinho. But, before  Liverpool even received the offer, it had reportedly got in contact with Barcelona and told the club it would not even sell for £150 million ($192 million).
Coutinho has already handed in a transfer request but Liverpool bosses have insisted they are not willing to sell the Brazilian, and he will respect his contract.
Related:   The Massive Transfer Weaknesses Liverpool Must Address Before Deadline Day
So, according to  Yahoo Sports, Coutinho could now put pen to paper, making a public statement to explain his discontent at Liverpool that would, in his eyes, hopefully push the deal through.
This was a method used by Southampton defender—and Liverpool target—Virgil van Dijk earlier this month. The Dutch defender wants a move away from the St Mary’s but the club has refused to sell, so he wrote a public letter explaining his desire to leave.
Van Dijk, at the moment, remains a Southampton player.


The blockbuster trade that sent Kyrie Irving to the Boston Celtics and Isaiah Thomas to the Cleveland Cavaliers on Tuesday night threw up a bunch of intriguing storylines, now and down the road.
The ultimate, overarching question of who actually wins one of the more eye-opening deals in recent NBA history is going to have to wait for an answer, at least until it becomes clear how badly the Brooklyn Nets are going to tank in the 2017-18 season.
At least we won’t have to wait long for the instant gratification of one narrative: Irving getting traded within the Eastern Conference means he’s going to come into direct contact on a regular basis with LeBron James, the future Hall of Famer whose looming influence over Irving was one major reason for the trade.
TNT is the lucky broadcaster that gets to air the first-ever meeting between James and Irving on opposite sides. The Cavaliers and Celtics get the NBA regular season under way on Tuesday, October 17 at Quicken Loans Arena in Cleveland at 8 p.m. EST. Watch TNT will also show a livestream of the game for those watching on a computer or via the TNT app.
Add in the intrigue of Thomas as a Cavalier, and whether he can create anything like the chemistry Irving had with James; the presence of major free-agent acquisition Gordon Hayward on the Celtics; and the fact that this is a repeat of the Eastern Conference finals from 2017 with the Celtics seeking revenge, and the NBA could hardly have wished for a more enticing build-up to the season’s curtain-raiser. The countdown to James versus Irving, Thomas versus the Celtics, Hayward versus the weight of expectation and Irving versus the franchise that pushed him toward greatness starts right about now.


It has become a bizarre, almost sadistic, trend in the NBA world: One of the top players from a team decides to leave, to take up a new challenge elsewhere, and his fans—or former fans—show their fury, their pain.
Sometimes, a jersey with the name of the player on the back is placed on the pavement, doused in fuel and ignited, a symbol of fan feelings—betrayal after being left in favor of another team. It happened when Kevin Durant last year left Oklahoma for Golden State, when Dwight Howard left the Magic and when LeBron James left the Cavs in 2010.
But James, now of course back in Cleveland, has urged Cavs supporters not to do the same as Kyrie Irving departs. The All-Star point guard is heading for the Boston Celtics, with Isaiah Thomas coming the other way.
A Cavs fan posted to Twitter on Tuesday night a video of Irving’s jersey that was reminiscent of those that featured lighters, but this user placed a note on Irving’s top instead. Take a look: 
That&#39;s the only way to be to the kid! Special talent/guy! Nothing but respect and what a ride it was our 3 years together Young Gode #Filayy https://t.co/wKYmYsmdgG

James spotted the video and retweeted it with a message for all Cavs fans to show their appreciation to Irving. “That’s the only way to be to the kid!”  James wrote. “Special talent/guy! Nothing but respect and what a ride it was our 3 years together Young Gode #Filayy”
Related:   LeBron James is asked about New York Knicks move, and fails to deny it
Of the move, Celtics President Danny Ainge said: “This has obviously been a roller coaster of a day for us, trading away Isaiah and Jae and Ante, especially Isaiah and Jae, who have been such a big part of our team and our success and our Celtic culture as leaders of our team. Very, very difficult day.” 


Tottenham Hotspur is set to beat Manchester United to the signing of Fulham’s teenage sensation Ryan Sessegnon, according to reports.
The 17-year-old, who is capable of playing anywhere on the left side of the pitch, has a few potential suitors in the Premier League, including United,  Spurs and  Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool.
Sessegnon featured 25 times for the west London club in the Championship last season, and is valued at £25 million (about $32 million) by Fulham.
According to  ESPN, the teenager will snub the advances of  Jose Mourinho’s Manchester United to join  Mauricio Pochettino at  Tottenham in the final days of the summer transfer window.
Related:   Manchester United and Chelsea on Alert as Tottenham Target Enters Crisis Talks
Mourinho has already spent £150 million (about $192 million) this summer at Old Trafford, strengthening the core of his team. Swedish center back Victor Lindelof was the first through the door, followed by Belgian striker Romelu Lukaku for £75 million (about $98 million).
Serbian midfielder Nemanja Matic was the third and, so far, final signing to arrive in the north west of England, from Chelsea for £40 million. But Mourinho reportedly wants Sessegnon, too.
But there may be more opportunity in north London for the youngster. Tottenham has been one of the lowest spenders in the Premier League so far this summer.
Keiran Trippier, center, and Ryan Sessegnon, right, at Craven Cottage, London, February 19.   Clive Rose/Getty
Related:   Four Issues Chelsea Must Address Before Transfer Deadline Day
Colombian center back Davinson Sanchez is set to become the club’s first signing, subject to a medical, joining from Ajax for a fee of around £36 million (about $46 million).
Working with  Pochettino will be an attractive prospect for Sessegnon because the Argentine coach has promoted from the Spurs academy frequently since he arrived at the club.
Kyle Walker-Peters, Harry Winks and Josh Onomah, all 21 or younger, benefitted from working with Pochettino and appeared in the Spurs first team last season.


In all the sound and fury and general astonishment at the blockbuster trade that sent Kyrie Irving to the Boston Celtics and Isaiah Thomas the opposite way, to the Cleveland Cavaliers, the two most important protagonists were the quietest of all.
While the Celtics announced the Irving signing on their Twitter account with the message, “Welcome to Boston Kyrie Irving,” the All-Star point guard was silent on social media. Irving made no announcement on Instagram, where he has 9.9 million followers.
On Twitter, Irving’s last post is a retweet from August 7 that now looks a little awkward: It is an announcement that Irving would be the cover star of the videogame NBA 2K18, in his new Cavaliers uniform, of course.
The tweet in reality is probably a lot more awkward for 2K Games than it is for Irving, who has more pressing issues to be worrying about, like acclimatizing to his new surroundings in Boston. NBA 2K18 has a release date of September 19, giving 2K Games a limited window to scramble for another cover—possibly with Irving in the right uniform.
There’s an argument that videogame companies should be prepared for this kind of eventuality, but then, how many people saw Irving being traded within the Eastern Conference, let alone to the Cavaliers’ principal rival in the East? Thomas and Irving trading places actually makes a lot of sense but only post-fact, and if basketball’s soothsayers couldn’t get it right, then 2K Games can’t be expected to be Nostradamus either.
All the same, it might be useful for all parties if Irving broke his social media silence to retweet a few Celtics-related posts, to bump that unavoidable slice of awkwardness down the page a little. Thomas is less of a problem, not being the cover star, but 2K also has to change his uniform in the run-up to the game’s release. Pity the poor videogames developer when franchises decide to pull off mega-trades.
Newsweek has contacted 2K Games for comment.


It is just 94 days since John Terry and Gary Cahill lifted the Premier League trophy at Stamford Bridge. In the process, Antonio Conte became the ninth manager to win the championship in his first season in English football. But, since then, a lot has changed at Chelsea.
Conte’s future at the club has been questioned as he battles with the  Chelsea board over signings. Diego Costa, the team’s prolific striker of last season, is unwanted and awol, refusing to return to London. And despite spending around £150 million (about $192 million) this summer, the Italian coach is far from content.
Conte and  Chelsea have just eight days to make the necessary changes, before the transfer window closes. So, here,  Newsweek  looks at the issues that must be addressed.
Alvaro Morata was Chelsea’s third signing of the summer, brought in from Real Madrid for £60 million and billed as Costa’s successor. The 24-year-old Spaniard has impressed in his first few appearances for the Blues, scoring on his debut against Burnley, but with Chelsea potentially facing 60 games this season he will need some support. Conte doesn’t appear to view Belgian Michy Batshuayi as that man despite the 23-year-old scoring four times in the final three games of the Premier League last season. So maybe someone with more experience? Swansea’s 32-year-old striker Fernando Llorente has been on Conte’s radar since he arrived at Stamford Bridge, having worked with him at Juventus between 2013 and 2015. Jamie Vardy has even been linked with a move to Stamford Bridge. An experienced striker would ease the pressure on Morata.
Related:   Chelsea and Manchester United on Alert as Top Target Discusses Future
Although he played a pivotal role from the bench last season, Conte doesn’t appear to see Cesc Fabregas as capable of playing in his team. Fabregas may not possess the intensity Conte demands. With the addition of Tiemoue Bakayoko, Chelsea’s midfield has a formidable presence but could still do with a creative addition. Conte will need options in his squad as he faces playing three games a week with Chelsea returning to the Champions League this season. Leicester’s Danny Drinkwater has been linked with a move to Stamford Bridge, but doesn’t quite have the creative intelligence Fabregas does.
Related:   Chelsea Targets Triple Transfer Swoop Before Deadline Day
The Premier League season had not even begun when Chelsea first discovered its lack of depth. When the team sheets were announced prior to Chelsea’s defeat to Burnley at Stamford Bridge on August 12, Conte had named Jeremie Boga as one of his forwards. Eden Hazard was still out injured. Pedro was not yet fully recovered. So Chelsea ended up naming a player barely known outside of west London who was born in the same year Tony Blair became the British Prime Minister. Some claimed it was a message from Conte to the board, presenting his lack of depth. He reportedly wants Antonio Candreva from Inter Milan, but is battling with the club to sanction a bid for a player aged 30.
Despite the huge success he has brought to Chelsea, Conte’s position as manager has never quite appeared certain—something he admitted to this summer. Reports in Germany on Wednesday morning even suggested Chelsea was sounding out Thomas Tuchel, the Borussia Dortmund manager, as a potential replacement. There is little certainty around any manager’s future at Stamford Bridge, but Conte will need reassurance and backing. That sunny day in late May, when he lifted the Premier League trophy, already seems a distant memory.


As opening statements in a job go, Koby Altman’s was the equivalent of Bart Simpson smashing all of Springfield’s windows by shouting down a combined 20 megaphones.
On Tuesday, Altman orchestrated one of the more remarkable trades in modern NBA history, moving an All-Star, all-world talent in Kyrie Irving to the Boston Celtics.
In his first major assignment since replacing David Griffin as Cavaliers General Manager, Altman knew he could accept nothing less than a king’s ransom for Irving, who informed the Cavaliers of his desire to leave northeast Ohio in July as he sought success away from the shadow of LeBron James.
He got it, too. In return for Irving, the Cavaliers received one of the NBA’s elite scoring point guards in Isaiah Thomas, small forward Jae Crowder, seven-foot prospect and 2016 first-rounder Ante Zizic and the Brooklyn Nets’ unprotected 2018 first-round pick.
It’s a move of extraordinary chutzpah from Altman and the Cavaliers’ front office, who could have moved Irving west to the Phoenix Suns, say, and not seen much of him again for most of the season. If Irving produces a clutch performance in an Eastern Conference series against the Cavaliers, well, Altman is not going to be very popular.
But the Cavaliers decided that the only appropriate value for Irving lay in the East. Crowder can help them out immediately, Zizic is intriguing and the Nets are almost certainly going to nosedive again so the draft pick is going to be a high one. As Stephen A Smith said on SportsCenter on Tuesday evening, if the Cavaliers lose LeBron James to free agency next summer then the pieces should already be in place to start the rebuild. Thomas, too, becomes an unrestricted free agent next summer.
“You’ve got to love what Cleveland did for itself,” Smith said. “Because remember, in the event that LeBron leaves then you can elect not to pay Isaiah. So you’re getting Isaiah’s numbers off the books, you’re getting LeBron James’ numbers off the books, you’ve still got an anticipated high first-round pick to rebuild and retool. All of those things can potentially work in your favor.”
The Celtics just entered win-right-now mode. The Cavaliers are there already but gave themselves wriggle room for regeneration if the Thomas experiment goes wrong. Altman’s first move was brassy but inspired.


Antonio Conte’s bumpy summer at Chelsea appeared to get a little smoother with a gritty victory over Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday at Wembley.
Or maybe not. 
According to a report in German football magazine SportBild, Chelsea has lost its patience with Conte, who won the Premier League in his first season as a manager in English football.
In the Italian’s place, Chelsea is reportedly keen on appointing Thomas Tuchel, the 43-year-old German manager who spent two years at Borussia Dortmund before leaving the Bundesliga giant in May.
Roman Abramovich, the Chelsea owner, and the Russian billionaire’s senior adviser Marina Granovskaia have decided that Conte’s reign as Chelsea manager has to end after Granovskaia’s relationship with the 48-year-old deteriorated, it claims. Tuchel would be “interested” in the job.
While Conte should have credit in the bank following Chelsea’s title triumph last season, two factors may count against him. Chelsea’s summer has been tumultuous, beginning with a row between Conte and star striker Diego Costa and ending with Costa in exile in Brazil.
Then Chelsea lost 3-2 to Burnley at Stamford Bridge in its first Premier League game of the season, losing two players to red cards in the process. Throughout his 14 years as Chelsea owner, Abramovich has also shown a ruthlessness in dismissing managers. Even Jose Mourinho was not spared the axe, twice, despite being the most successful manager in Chelsea’s recent history.
Tuchel has also won far less than Conte, although of course that may mean he feels he has more to prove than the former Juventus manager.
It would seem an extraordinary decision for Chelsea to dispose of Conte this early, especially given his relationship with the club’s fans. But Abramovich and Granovskaia have little room for sentiment—possibly why Chelsea has remained a consistent winner through consistent upheaval. Even after last season, Conte looks like he may be on borrowed time.


And the countdown continues. Just eight days to go until each Premier League manager will have to make do with the players he has—well, until January anyway.
Over in west London,  Antonio Conte seems the most desperate manager in the division to get deals over the line before the August 31 deadline. His  Chelsea team may be Premier League champion, but the Italian coach is linked with a few high-class players.
On Merseyside,  Jurgen Klopp has the opposite problem. The Liverpool manager cannot wait for the transfer window to close as he desperately looks to keep hold of his most valued, and sought-after players.
Here,  Newsweek  guides you through all the news and rumors in the Premier League with little over a week remaining:
Chelsea has at least three players on its list of targets over the next week, two of which currently play at Leicester City. Conte’s team is closing in on a deal for central midfielder  Danny Drinkwater, which is likely to see a fee of around £30 million (about $38 million), according to the  Daily Mirror, while also considering making a bid for 30-year-old striker  Jamie Vardy.
Related:   The Six Massive Transfer Deals That Could Still Happen
The  same newspaper also says Chelsea is keen on Italian midfielder  Antonio Candreva, who has been told he can leave Inter Milan for £25 million (about $32 million). The board at Stamford Bridge are not keen on signing players past their peak, however, because there is no sell-on value.
At Anfield, Klopp and Liverpool thought they had seen off Barcelona’s interest in Brazilian playmaker  Philippe Coutinho, but not quite yet, apparently. The Spanish giant will make a fourth and final bid for the 25-year-old in the region of £136 million, according to  The Sun.
Related:   Manchester United and Chelsea on Alert as Top Target Enters Crunch Talks
Chelsea is not the only London club looking to do some last-minute business. Mauricio Pochettino’s Tottenham is looking to sign Paris Saint Germain defender  Serge Aurier, who has been linked to both Manchester United and Chelsea, according to  Sky Sports.
Manchester City will return to West Bromwich Albion with a second bid for center back  Jonny Evans, a former Manchester United defender, having seen an £18 million offer rejected last week,  ESPN says.
French Ligue 1 club Marseille has confirmed, according to the  Daily Telegraph, that it would be interested in signing Chelsea outcast  Diego Costa this summer if he cannot complete a deal to Atletico Madrid.
Costa, the Spanish striker, is not wanted by Chelsea and his desire is to return to Atletico, his former club.
And finally, Crystal Palace is looking to sign Scottish winger  Oliver Burke from RB Leipzig, according to the  Guardian. The 20-year-old has worked with Palace’s new sporting director Dougie Freeman before, at Nottingham Forest.


“September’s coming soon; I’m pining for the moon,” Michael Stipe sings in R.E.M.’s "Nightswimming," the greatest track at the center of the elegiac masterpiece that is 1992’s Automatic for the People.
Stipe, of course, is mourning the disappearance of summer, or summers long gone, now fading in his memory. “What if there were two,” he goes on, “Side by side in orbit, around the ferrous sun.” We don’t know, of course, but we can glean that he’s wishing for another youth.
Football has its own elegiac side, though the transfer market often appears concerned only with the present and future. Arsene Wenger, for instance, wants September because that will mean the end of the summer transfer window, enabling him to free himself from worries about Alexis Sanchez, his best player.
Wenger has often appeared an unwilling participant in the transfer market, but he hasn’t survived for more than two decades by being a dreamer unable to live within the boundaries of the system. Here are the areas he needs to fix before the window slams shut.
Gabriel Paulista is leaving while Shkodran Mustafi, too, looks like he could be on his way out of Emirates Stadium to Inter Milan. Both of those players have had their faults and weaknesses while at Arsenal but Friday’s first Premier League fixture against Leicester City showed that Wenger cannot go into the new season without replacing them.
While new signing Sead Kolasinac was impressive on the left-hand side of a back three against Leicester, Arsenal’s defense was breached too many times and too often. Nacho Monreal is not the dominant central defender to carry Arsenal to that long-awaited first league title since 2004. Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain is not the wing-back to help a team to the Premier League. Hector Bellerin is assuredly not a left-wing back. Against Stoke, Arsenal’s defense looked muddled if not exactly awful. And that confusion, inevitably, filters forward to the rest of the team.
While the rumors and reports about Arsenal making another approach for Julian Draxler could be met with understandable fatigue, a transfer for Paris Saint-Germain’s German forward could actually make sense this time.
Wenger’s preferred system this season is shaping up as a 3-4-2-1 formation with Alexandre Lacazette at the point, supported by two attacking midfielders or “pivots.” Against Leicester Danny Welbeck played in one of those positions alongside Mesut Ozil. But Welbeck is a striker not an attacking midfielder. Arsenal would be exponentially more dangerous if they could team Draxler and Ozil, the two Germany international teammates, together—Ozil the passer and Draxler the dribbler who is adept at finishing, too. It appears that Draxler is available because PSG needs to clear out players after the Neymar transfer. Arsenal should move quickly to snap up an unwanted talent.
The Telegraph reported last week that Sanchez, who missed Arsenal’s victory over Leicester and its defeat at Stoke City, was being lined up by Manchester City for £60 million. The Sun claimed on Tuesday that Arsenal will accept a bid of £70 million from City for Sanchez, who has entered the final season of his current contract at Emirates Stadium.
Losing Sanchez next summer for nothing would clearly not be ideal for Arsenal, but the current state of limbo is arguably more damaging. As in the contemporaneous case of Liverpool and Philippe Coutinho, Arsenal will struggle to spend £70 million in the limited time remaining in the transfer window. Wenger has to stand firm and hold onto Sanchez or Arsenal’s season is going to begin on a discordant note.
Against Leicester, Wenger played Mohamed Elneny and Granit Xhaka as deep-lying central midfielders. Against Stoke, Xhaka played next to Aaron Ramsey, with the Welshman provided license to run forward and support the attack.
Neither combination was entirely convincing. Elneny and Xhaka should have prevented goals; instead Leicester scored three and seemed to play through and over Arsenal with some ease. Against Stoke, Xhaka’s pass towards Ozil never met its intended target, but Jese Rodriguez should not have been allowed to run so far after the mistake to score.
Xhaka is capable of excellence but he needs the right man next to him to bring out his best qualities and stop him having to lunge into tackles. Jose Mourinho went out this summer and bought Paul Pogba a supremely useful lump of granite in Nemanja Matic. Wenger should do the same.


Jurgen Klopp may have received a major fillip ahead of Liverpool’s Champions League second leg against Hoffenheim on Wednesday after a report claimed Philippe Coutinho will be staying at the club this season.
Coutinho has been the subject of several huge bids from Barcelona—which is seeking a replacement for Neymar in the final weeks of the transfer window—the latest reported to be £114 million ($146.5 million), although that apparently included Coutinho winning multiple Champions Leagues with Barcelona.
Liverpool’s response to each approach from Barcelona has been the same: a firm no.
The Guardian reported on Monday that Barcelona was weighing up a fourth offer for Coutinho, 25, who has not featured in either of Liverpool’s two Premier League games so far this season due to injury.
But the Daily Mirror claims Liverpool has “won the battle” to keep Coutinho, with the deadline for Liverpool to accept the latest bid having passed on Sunday. Coutinho signed a new five-year contract in January, and Liverpool is under no pressure to sell. Indeed, a sale at this stage even for upwards of £100 million would make it difficult for Liverpool to find a replacement before the transfer window closes on August 31.
That deadline passing means Barcelona has had to give up on the idea that it can lure Coutinho to the Nou Camp this summer. Instead it will have to look elsewhere as it seeks to spend the world-record £200 million it received from Paris Saint-Germain for Neymar.
The news will come as a relief to Klopp, who is attempting to pilot Liverpool through a tricky Champions League playoff tie against Hoffenheim. Liverpool takes a 2-1 lead back to Anfield on Wednesday night, knowing that victory on aggregate over the two legs will secure it safe and lucrative passage through to the Champions League group stages.


Premier League managers now know the strengths of their teams after two games of the new season, but, more importantly, they also know their weaknesses.
They also know that they have just nine days to fill those holes with new additions before the  Premier League transfer window comes to a close on August 31.
Premier League champion  Chelsea may have shown its grit and mettle at Wembley on Sunday but  Antonio Conte is still desperate for new signings.
Tottenham, which has only made one signing this summer, is also looking to strengthen  Mauricio Pochettino’s team, while Pep Guardiola is looking to add a final polish to his pricey Manchester City squad.
Here,  Newsweek  guides you through all the news and rumors in the Premier League’s transfer market:
Tottenham Hotspur is preparing a £20 million (about $26 million) bid for Everton’s 23-year-old midfielder  Ross Barkley, but Pochettino’s team faces a battle with Chelsea for the Englishman’s signature, according to the  Daily Telegraph. Everton reportedly wants to see a figure closer to £50 million (about $64 million) offered.
Related:   Five Things We Learned as Chelsea Gets Dramatic Late Winner Against Spurs
The  same newspaper also says that Chelsea is heavily interested in Southampton center back  Virgil van Dijk, and has been all summer. But the St Mary’s club has said the Dutch defender is not for sale and Chelsea will not bid until Southampton says otherwise.
In better news for Conte, 31-year-old midfield target  Claudio Marchisio has revealed that he wants to leave Italian Serie A champion Juventus, according to  TalkSport, leaving an opportunity for Chelsea to bid.
Related:   The Six Massive Transfer Deals That Could Still Happen Before August 31
Liverpool may have finally held off Barcelona’s pursuit of  Philippe Coutinho, rejecting a third bid from the Catalan club for the 25-year-old Brazilian playmaker, according to the  Daily Mirror.
Manchester City will turn its attention to signing  Ben Gibson from Middlesbrough if West Brom will not sell Northern Irish center back  Jonny Evans this summer, according to  The Independent. Guardiola’s team is willing to bid £20 million for Gibson, the 24-year-old defender.  
Andy Carroll could yet make a return to St James Park with Newcastle, but it would have to be on a permanent basis, according to the  Newcastle Chronicle. West Ham has ruled out the possibility of loaning out the 28-year-old striker but is open to the possibility of a transfer.
And finally, Paris Saint-Germain is on the verge of agreeing a season-long loan deal for Monaco’s 18-year-old star forward  Kylian Mbappe, according to  Sky Sports.


Le’Veon Bell kept the Steelers sweating his future this summer. But the wait may be over.
Bell has spent most of August in South Florida, skipping preseason training and games for  Pittsburgh while also failing to sign his new $12.1 million franchise tender.
According to  ESPN, the 25-year-old’s teammates expect Bell to be back with them by the time Labor Day comes round, having been in contact with him via text.
But the Steelers may have to go back to the negotiation table to ensure Bell is playing for the team in the coming years.
According to the  Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Bell wants his salary increased to an average of $15 million a year, significantly north of the $12.1 million the Steelers offered before the summer.
Related:   Steelers Accuse Patriots Of Tampering With Headsets
The Steelers have played two preseason games without Bell, beating the Atlanta Falcons on Sunday 17-13 and the Giants 20-12 on August 12.
James Conner, the third-round pick, has started in place of Bell for the Steelers and had 98 yards on 20 carries against Atlanta.


Stoke City was long a bogey team for Arsenal after it was promoted to the Premier League in 2008. Its bullish, direct style contrasted dramatically—and effectively—with Arsenal’s silky football.
But there seemed to be a change over the past few years. As Stoke established itself in the top tier of  English football and looked to play a more aesthetically pleasing style by signing former  Barcelona and Real Madrid players, the results against  Arsenal actually deteriorated.
Since the start of 2015, Stoke has managed to take just one point from five games against  Arsenal. But on Saturday, new signing Jesé scored during his debut at the bet365 Stadium, and Wenger’s team of superstars had no reply.
It was a painful return to north London for Arsenal, made even worse by Stoke’s local police force hitting a zinger on social media. An Arsenal fan with the Twitter handle @TheIwobiEffect tagged the town’s police force and wrote that he “would like to report a robbery,” suggesting the Gunners should have won.
Related:   The Six Massive Transfer Deals That Could Still Happen In The Next 10 Days
Almost 12 hours later, a reply came from the police account. It read: “apologies for the delay in replying. We’ve been busy looking for a missing person, surname Ozil. Have you seen him? #Banter”
apologies for the delay in replying. We&#39;ve been busy looking for a missing person, surname Ozil. Have you seen him? #Banter
The reply referred to Mesut Özil, the German midfielder Arsenal signed from Real Madrid in 2013 for £42.4 million (about $55 million), who's been criticized for failing to have an impact on big games.
The post got more than 10,000 likes and 8,000 retweets.


Manchester United continued to set the early pace in the Premier League at the weekend as José Mourinho’s side demolished Swansea City for its second 4-0 win in two games.
Elsewhere, Liverpool registered its first victory while Arsenal slipped up at Stoke, and there was a seesaw battle between Tottenham and Chelsea at Wembley in what could be an early preview of the title race.
Who moved up and down the Premier League form ladder? Newsweek assesses the weekend’s action.
Top of the Premier League after two games with eight goals scored and none conceded. United had to bide its time before disposing of Swansea with the same ruthlessness it reserved for West Ham United a week before. Leicester City at Old Trafford on Saturday will be a harder test.
Newcastle was a supine opponent, but this was still an impressive home debut from David Wagner’s team. The victory was more comfortable than the one-goal margin would suggest, although it’s possible that Huddersfield could come to over-rely on the excellent Aaron Mooy. Southampton visits John Smith’s Stadium Saturday at 3 p.m.
Oh ye of little faith who doubt Tony Pulis. Hal Robson-Kanu scored, then got sent off as West Brom pulled off a fine victory at Turf Moor, where Burnley is always strong. Stoke City visits The Hawthorns on Sunday.
All the promise Watford showed against Liverpool on opening weekend was present again at Vitality Stadium, with a first goal for summer signing Richarlison, a screamer from Étienne Capoue and a defensively solid effort. Marco Silva’s team hosts winless Brighton on Saturday.
Mark Hughes’s team did not look like a squad in crisis on Saturday against Arsenal. New signing Jesé Rodriguez took his goal well enough to suggest there may be more to come, too. A visit to West Brom looks a tough test next up in the league.
Antonio Conte’s side was not perfect against Tottenham at Wembley, but it was resilient, and that may be the more important quality right now. Marcos Alonso continues to be perhaps the Premier League’s most underrated full back.
Jürgen Klopp got a win and a clean sheet amid rumblings off the pitch as Barcelona continue to hurl money at Liverpool in a desperate chase for Philippe Coutinho. Liverpool faces Hoffenheim in midweek in the Champions League playoff before an early-season game of huge proportions against Arsenal on Sunday.
City plays Everton Monday night knowing it must win to keep pace with United.
Can Ronald Koeman’s team hang with the best in the league? Here’s an early indication.
Two goals, none conceded against Brighton and two assists for Riyad Mahrez, who now looks like he may remain with Leicester for another season. An injury to striker Jamie Vardy may prove costly in the weeks to come.
Spurs didn’t play badly at Wembley, but nor did Mauricio Pochettino’s team do enough to suggest it can prosper playing 19 games at the home of English football this season. And its terrible run against Chelsea continues.
Yes, Southampton picked up its first win of the season. But it also allowed ten-man West Ham back into the game at St. Mary’s Stadium, losing a 2-0 lead. A Charlie Austin penalty saved the day.
A bump back to earth for Sean Dyche’s team after the opening-weekend heroics against Chelsea. Burnley needs to stay strong at home or it could yet be in trouble.
If Javier Hernández scores regularly, West Ham will be OK, but that first win needs to come soon. Slaven Bilić’s side visits Newcastle United on Saturday in a game that already looms as horribly important for both.
Perhaps Arsène Wenger’s side got a little unlucky at Stoke with a marginal offside call against Alexandre Lacazette and penalty claims that could have been given in its favor. But great teams can override misfortune. Arsenal still seems to have a weak underbelly.
Worrying times for Eddie Howe, who must find a way of converting pretty football into goals. Bournemouth has failed to score in each of its two Premier League fixtures this season, and both have ended in defeat.
Insipid against Huddersfield apart from one Matt Ritchie shot, Newcastle looks a prime candidate to be relegated unless Rafael Benítez is allowed to add to his squad in the final days of the summer transfer window.
Palace moves a place up by virtue mostly of other teams’ ineptitude. There is no shame in losing to Liverpool at Anfield, but two defeats and no goals is not the way Frank de Boer would have wanted the season to begin.
Where are Swansea’s goals going to come from? Tammy Abraham toiled against Manchester United with little service or help. Paul Clement simply must spend all of the Gylfi Sigurðsson money to haul Swansea away from danger.
This looks like a long, hard season for Chris Hughton and his team. A visit to Watford on Saturday means the going gets no easier from here.


Breitbart has issued an apology to German World Cup winner Lukas Podolski after mistaking him for a traveling migrant on a jet ski.
The  article, published Friday, was about Spanish police shutting down a gang that was charging migrants 5,000 euros to travel from Morocco via Gibraltar on jet skis.
But the post was accompanied by a photo of former  Arsenal footballer Podolski, now at  J-League club Vissel Kobe, on the back of a jet ski, taken in 2014 during the World Cup in Brazil.
The error was corrected swiftly, but it was picked up on social media just as quickly.
Breitbart seem to think Lukas Podolski is part of a people smuggling gang on jet-skis... pic.twitter.com/0VmHDk9hi4
Breitbart amended the article with a new image and added a note from the editor.
“Breitbart London wishes to apologise to Mr. Podolski,” it said. “There is no evidence Mr. Podolski is either a migrant gang member, nor being human trafficked. We wish Mr. Podolski well in his recently announced international retirement.”
Related:   Breitbart Claims It Is Not Alt-Right And Neither Is Steve Bannon
Podolski has not commented on the error. The 32-year-old played football at Arsenal, in London, from 2012 through 2015. There, he won the FA Cup under French manager Arsène Wenger before moving permanently to Turkish club Galatasaray.
The German played 130 times for his country before announcing his decision to retire this year. He won the World Cup with Germany in 2014, the tournament at which he was photographed in the Breitbart article.


Kyrie Irving’s trade request to Cleveland Cavaliers came after he mistakenly believed LeBron James wanted him out of the team this summer, according to reports.
Irving surprised the basketball world by formally asking  the Cavs to trade him, with many believing that he wanted to get out of  James’ shadow and become the main man elsewhere.
But, according to  Fox’s Chris Broussard, Irving was angered after he thought James wanted him gone to make space for Eric Bledsoe and Paul George in this summer’s draft.
“The final straw as to why he wanted out of Cleveland, or wants out of Cleveland, I’m told the Cavaliers had a deal done heading into the draft. This was reported by Cleveland Scene magazine, no one really picked it up, but I’ve talked to a few people who said it was true,” Broussard said.
This deal, according to Broussard, would have seen  Irving move to Phoenix, with Phoenix sending Bledsoe back to Cleveland as well as the number four pick. Cavaliers would, then, send the number four pick to Indiana for George.
Related:   Kevin Durant Opens Up On Whether LeBron James Should Leave Cavs
“Now, Kyrie Irving finds out about the deal,” Broussard said. “Whether it was from David Griffin telling him after he left or however he found out. But he found out about the deal. And he assumed, he rightly assumed, that there’s no way the Cavaliers are doing this unless LeBron gives consent. That’s why he got mad with LeBron. He thought LeBron was in on it.
“LeBron’s take was more, ‘Look, I’m not trying to trade Kyrie Irving. He’s great. But that’s a heck of a deal—Eric Bledsoe and Paul George. So if you do it, hey, that’s a great deal.’ But Kyrie took it as LeBron wanted him out of there. A few days or a week later that’s when Kyrie made his trade request.”

So could this all be a misunderstanding? Regardless, it seems that the situation has gone too far to be resolved. The problem for Cleveland, however, is that there are some suggestions that James will definitely not be playing for the Cavs by next summer.
Veteran NBA reporter Chris Sheridan claimed last week that James was “100 percent leaving” the Cavs at the end of this season. The relationship with the Cleveland owners, Sheridan said, is beyond repair.


Despite spending in the Premier League reaching more than £1 billion already this summer, some of the biggest deals are yet to go through.
Just 10 days are left for English clubs to do some last-minute business. The majority of these deals have seen protracted stand-offs over the summer, with clubs desperately trying to keep hold of a player who wants to leave.
But for a while, it has become clear how much power footballers themselves now have over their future, rather than their clubs. Here,  Newsweek  guides you through six of the biggest deals that could still happen by August 31:
Diego Costa
The war between Costa and Chelsea went public at the beginning of the season when it was revealed that manager Antonio Conte had told Costa he was not in his plans going forward.
From then, the striker has spent his summer in Brazil and says he will never return to Stamford Bridge, In an interview with the  Daily Mail, the Spaniard criticized Conte as a coach, claiming he lacked “charisma” and said that he only wanted to move back to Atletico Madrid.
Chelsea wants Costa to return to its training base in London and to fitness, because the club wants £50 million (about $64 million) for him. Atletico, according to reports, is willing to pay the price tag but its transfer ban will mean Costa would not play until January.
Philippe Coutinho
The most bizarre of situations has played out with Barcelona’s desperation to make Coutinho the successor to Neymar in Catalonia. After selling Neymar to Paris Saint Germain for a world-record £198 million (about $255 million), Barcelona needs a big statement to come in and the club sees Coutinho as that man.
The La Liga giant is willing to spend £120 million of the Neymar money on Coutinho, but Liverpool is unwilling to accept: Jurgen Klopp deems Coutinho priceless, especially now with just 10 days remaining of the transfer window. Coutinho, though, has handed in a transfer request as he looks to force the move through. Will we ever see him in a Liverpool jersey again? It’s become increasingly unlikely.
Related:   Manchester United Set For New Arrival Next Week
Virgil van Dijk
And here’s where Liverpool is on the other side of the table. Klopp wanted Van Dijk to become his first signing of the summer in early June, likely to move to Anfield for £60 million (about $77 million). But then the move reached a snag: Southampton didn’t want to sell. Liverpool ended up apologizing to Southampton and ending its interest in the Dutch center back, officially anyway.
Now, Van Dijk wants to go but Southampton doesn’t want to sell, so what’s the outcome? Just like Coutinho, Van Dijk delivers his transfer request to St Mary’s. But he goes one step further by releasing a statement where he tells fans he wants to leave to progress his career. Liverpool is joined by Chelsea and Manchester City in wanting the defender.
Alexis Sanchez
Abdominal pains have kept Sanchez sidelined at the start of this season, according to Arsenal, but the pain may, in fact, be in his gluteus maximus. Sanchez reportedly wants to leave Arsenal this summer and will not sign a contract extension as he heads into the final year of his contract. But Arsene Wenger is willing to take a big gamble. He will risk Sanchez moving to a rival club next summer, for free, in order to keep him at the Emirates Stadium for just one more season. Manchester City, Chelsea and Bayern Munich are all looking to take the Chilean forward, and they don’t want to wait that long.
Alex Oxlade Chamberlain
Again, like Sanchez, Chamberlain is a player in the final year of his contract. Unlike Sanchez, however, Chamberlain has featured in Arsenal’s first two games of the Premier League season, starring in fact and showing why Chelsea is so determined to sign him. At 23 years of age, the English midfielder is a valuable asset, but Arsenal risks losing him to a Premier League rival. Antonio Conte, his biggest admirer, sees his versatility and wants him to play as a wing-back at Stamford Bridge. The Italian manager wants him this summer, and will hope the deal can be done over the next 10 days.
Danny Rose
Unlike many of the other potential transfers, Rose popped up late in the window. In an interview with  The Sun, the Tottenham left-back said that he was worth more than the north London club paid him. The interview upset Spurs and saw Rose apologize, but that has put other clubs on alert. Manchester United and Chelsea are both willing to give Rose a considerable pay rise to lure him away from north London. Conte sees Rose as a perfect player to play at left wingback, while Jose Mourinho is still in need of an orthodox left-back.


With just 10 days remaining of the transfer window, the Premier League’s biggest clubs are looking to do some last minute business.
In the north west of England,  Jose Mourinho’s early front-runner  Manchester United could get even stronger before the summer window closes. The United manager is considering bringing back an old, popular face to  Old Trafford.
At Arsenal, in north London,  Arsene Wenger is stuck with a predicament. While he would like more signings, the French manager has admitted he needs to sell before he can sign, slimming down his squad before the end of the window.
Here,  Newsweek  guides you through all the news and rumors you need to know in the Premier League’s transfer window:
Manchester United is expected to resign  Zlatan Ibrahimovic as early as next week, according to  ESPN. The 35-year-old Swedish striker is expected to return with a part-coaching role, having been the team’s top scorer last season, but he has now been replaced by 23-year-old Romelu Lukaku.
Ibrahimovic has shown on his social media accounts that he has recovered from the injury sustained at Old Trafford last season:
 
Which knee? @azsportswear #azbyzlatan pic.twitter.com/xp3Aqmgdkv
 
Arsene Wenger is prepared to offer  Alex Oxlade Chamberlain a new four-year deal worth £125,000-a-week (about $161,000) to keep him from joining Premier League rival Chelsea, according to the  Daily Star. Chamberlain is in the final year of his contract and the 23-year-old midfielder will be free to speak to any club he wants in January.
Related:   Five Things We Learned as Chelsea Beats Tottenham to Add to Wembley Woe
But Wenger has also revealed he has a problem at the Emirates. The Arsenal manager needs to trim down his giant first-team squad before he can bring in any new signings,  The Independent reports.
West Ham is on the verge of signing 25-year-old midfielder  William Carvalho from Sporting Lisbon, according to  Sky Sports. The midfielder is likely to become the club’s record signing, with Sporting demanding a fee of around £40 million (about $51 million).
Crystal Palace is unlikely to complete the permanent signing of  Mamadou Sakho, the French defender who became a fan-favorite at Selhurst Park in just a few months last season, according to the  Guardian. New manager Frank de Boer says 27-year-old Liverpool center back is too expensive.
And finally, Leicester City players are urging wantaway forward  Riyad Mahrez to remain at the King Power Stadium this summer, according to the  Leicester Mercury. Leicester rejected a £30 million (about $39 million) bid from Roma for Mahrez, as the club wants around £50 million (about $64 million) for the 2016 PFA Player of the Year.


Mauricio Pochettino believes Tottenham is actually stronger than it was last season and insists Wembley Stadium did not play a factor in his team’s 2-1 defeat to Chelsea on Sunday. 
Marcos Alonso scored twice, either side of a Michy Batshuayi own goal, that saw Tottenham’s jinx at Wembley continue, losing the eighth time in 11 games under the arch. Those on social media mocking Spurs’ record pointed out that British boxing heavyweight champion Anthony Joshua had won more times at Wembley than Tottenham. 
But Pochettino insisted that it was not an issue and that he knew why Chelsea won and his team didn’t. “I understand we need to talk [about it], but today the ‘Wembley effect’ is not the reason we lost the game,” Pochettino said. “The team played very well. It’s not fair to blame Wembley, because Wembley for me is one of the best places, if not the best, to play football.”
Tottenham dominated for much of the game, having more than two-thirds of possession and hitting 18 shots to Chelsea’s two. Antonio Conte’s tactics, Pochettino suggested, worked to perfection. 
“It was very clear the idea of Chelsea to contain us and play counter attack, with Willian and [Alvaro] Morata up front,” the Argentine said. “I am only disappointed, I am not frustrated or upset. 
“I am happy to lose in that way, keep working and prepare the team for next week here against Burnley.” 
Chelsea’s two shots on target delivered two goals, with Conte’s makeshift team delivering a performance from “fighters,” without Eden Hazard, Cesc Fàbregas, Gary Cahill and other notable absentees.
“I must be pleased,” Pochettino said. “I want to thank my players, because they showed me great desire, great spirit, great will, great art, great will to fight. I saw today fighters.”


Last weekend, there was a suggestion that Antonio Conte was sending a message to the Chelsea board with his team selection. This week, it was his team that was sending the message. 
Marcos Alonso scored twice to hand Conte and Chelsea their first win of the season, having lost the opening game at Stamford Bridge to Burnley. Alonso hit a perfect free kick in the 24th minute to put the away side ahead, but Spurs looked set to take a point when Michy Batshuayi headed into his own net with his first touch of the game. 
But, as the game opened up, and it looked like either side could win, Chelsea showed why it was Premier League champion. Alonso broke into the penalty and, with two minutes to go, shot hard and low. His shot squirmed under Hugo Lloris and drew Conte into wild celebration. 
Here, Newsweek looks at five things we learned from Tottenham’s first Premier League game at Wembley Stadium: 
Takes Time to Settle In
Tottenham did all it could to make Wembley feel like home. ‘To Do is To Dare’ and ‘The Game is About Glory’, Spurs’ two mottos, were everywhere you looked inside and out of the stadium. Some 67,000 white flags waved from side to side before kick off. And then there was the drum, the dreaded drum (we’ll get to that later). But whatever Tottenham did, this was still Wembley; it still felt like a place in the FA Cup final was up for grabs for the winner. This rented accommodation will become more homely in time, but the Premier League doesn’t allow for much of that. With so many teams in contention for the title, Pochettino’s team will have to bed in quickly. 
We Don’t Like to Bang Out Own Drum
But Spurs, apparently, do. Maybe it was through fear of seeing what happened with West Ham last year, when the east London club moved out of Upton Park and into the London Stadium. The atmosphere was flat, and the results were even worse; Tottenham can’t afford that. So, in the planning for the first Premier League home game at Wembley, someone at Spurs suggested an artificial drum. It boomed across the stadium, intended to raise the volume of the home fans. It brought jeers from the 3,000 away fans packed into the corner of Wembley, and a sense of embarrassment from the majority of fans under the arch. And, in the end, it was highly unnecessary, especially when Tottenham’s equalizer went in. Had the roof been on Wembley, it would have been blown off. 
Conte’s Men Step Up to The Task 
Injuries and ill-discipline has left Antonio Conte well short at the start of this season. Four of his substitutes were aged between 19 and 21, while Tiemoue Bakayoko was rushed back from injury to start the game while six defenders were named in the starting line-up. David Luiz was deployed in midfield, alongside Bakayoko and N’Golo Kane, and was magnificent. The Brazilian put in the all important tackle that set up Alonso’s winner. Up front, Alvaro Morata missed a glorious opportunity in the opening minutes of the game to put Chelsea ahead, but looks a lethal striker. He was bullied at times by Tottenham’s powerful defense. 
Vertonghen Should Have Seen Red 
This being a London derby, played in a venue that felt like home to neither team, there was always going to be a feisty edge to the game. A few bullish challenges went in between these two physically powerful teams, but Jan Vertonghen could—and probably should—have been sent off just five minutes into the second half. The Belgian center back saw the ball get away from him on the half-way line and, in a desperate attempt to get the ball back, he lunged toward Victor Moses. High and reckless, Vertonghen’s studs scraped along Moses’ kneecap, leaving the Chelsea man writhing in pain. Anthony Taylor, the referee, reached for his pocket but produced only a yellow card. It wasn’t too dissimilar to the challenge that saw Chelsea’s Gary Cahill receive a straight red card against Burnley last weekend, and Conte made that clear to fourth official Mike Dean. 
Who Needs Danny Rose, Anyway?
A hand flies up from Jose Mourinho and, possibly, Antonio Conte as well. Rose, the outspoken Spurs defender, has upset his club by telling The Sun newspaper that he deserved more money than he was paid; Mourinho and Conte’s clubs would both be able to offer more. Rose remains sidelined at the start of this season, not due to being disciplined but injury. Pochettino has turned to Ben Davies, and the 24-year-old Welshman has filled in well. His ability to get forward, with a dangerous left boot, has always been his strength; it is the defensive work that has the question marks. But already this season he has shown improvements, with perfectly timed challenges. Pochettino may not want Rose to leave, but he may not be missed too sorely with Davies around. 


After the first week of Premier League games came to a close, managers in each and every team were able to assess the tools at their disposal. They now know what they have and, more importantly, what they need.
In the past week, Premier League champion  Chelsea has frantically searched for new signings after losing the first game of the season 3-2.  Antonio Conte has already made four signings but wants more by August 31.
Last season’s runner-up  Tottenham Hotspur looked to be on the verge of spending its first bit of cash this summer, while  Manchester United and Jose Mourinho contemplated a fourth signing.
Here,  Newsweek  looks back on the biggest transfer news and rumors in the Premier League over the past week:
Manchester United target  Ivan Perisic had a new suitor, with Chelsea reportedly showing interest in the 28-year-old winger. Southampton defender  Virgil van Dijk was also wanted by Conte, with Chelsea willing to bid £50 million. Tottenham was considering making Lazio forward  Keita Balde his first signing of the summer, while  Gylfi Sigurdsson looked set for a move to Everton.
Chelsea was growing confident over the signing of Arsenal midfielder  Alex Oxlade Chamberlain for £35 million, with Conte desperate to strengthen his squad. But one man who wouldn’t be returning to Stamford Bridge was  Diego Costa who said he wanted to move to Atletico Madrid. Liverpool was looking to convince  Philippe Coutinho to stay at Anfield, while Chelsea and Manchester City rivalled Jurgen Klopp for  Van Dijk . The first sign of  Davinson Sanchez signing for Tottenham appeared in the news, with the 21-year-old Colombian defender likely to join from Ajax.
Related:   Arsene Wenger Prepared to Take £200 Million Gamble at Arsenal
Spurs was in the news again but this time in reference to another defender. Tottenham looked set to hijack Manchester United’s deal with Paris Saint Germain for  Serge Aurier, while Chelsea was preparing a £50 million offer for  Danny Rose. But Conte hadn’t given up on Juventus left back  Alex Sandro nor  Oxlade Chamberlain. West Ham was again looking to spend big as it considered breaking the club record to sign  William Carvalho from Sporting Lisbon.
Chelsea’s move for Spurs defender  Rose was unsuccessful, while Conte would have to pay at least £60 million for  Sandro. Manchester United looked set to bring 35-year-old  Zlatan Ibrahimovic back to Old Trafford, but with the striker set to take up a part-time coaching role. Across town, Manchester City made a shock bid for former United defender  Jonny Evans, who now plays for West Brom. Another name popped up on Spurs wishlist with Celta Vigo midfielder  Pape Cheikh Diop catching Mauricio Pochettino’s eye.
Tottenham was on the verge of completing the deal for 21-year-old center back  Sanchez, while Chelsea had a £63 million offer for  Sandro rejected. Manchester United was determined to sign Inter Milan winger  Perisic, but has only offered £38 million. Chelsea outcast  Diego Costa had a surprise offer from Everton, but only wants a return to Atletico Madrid.


When asked Friday for his reaction to Diego Costa accusing Chelsea of treating him like a “criminal,” Antonio Conte had a striking reaction. The 48-year-old Italian burst out laughing.
In an interview with the  Daily Mail on Monday,  Costa said he would not return to Stamford Bridge this summer and that he wanted a move to his former club, Atlético Madrid. The fallout at  Chelsea came after  Conte allegedly sent Costa a text telling him he would not be in his plans for the future.
“I’m not a criminal! I don’t think it is fair after all I have done to be treated like that,” Costa said. Asked for his reaction to the interview on Friday,  Conte said all he could do was laugh at the situation.
Watch the Italian’s reaction here:

“It’s great, it’s great, it’s great. I prefer to laugh,” Conte said. In the interview,  Costa claimed his Italian manager “lacks charisma” and accused him of blocking contract negotiations in January.
Related:   Chelsea Misses Out On £50 Million Target, Angering Antonio Conte
Conte is now without Costa and has signed Álvaro Morata as his replacement. The Spaniard scored and assisted in his debut last weekend, but Chelsea lost 3-2 to Burnley.
On Sunday, Conte’s team travels to Wembley Stadium for a London derby against Tottenham Hotspur, the runner-up to Chelsea in the Premier League last season.


First impressions can often be misleading.
What felt like love, until it wasn't. The cable package you were sure was a good value until you got that first bill. The promise of the Great American Novel that turned out to be hackneyed and contrived. The American President who promised to Make Your Country Great Again and brought division and violence. 
And Paul Pogba and Nemanja Matić? Well, we will have to wait on that one, but the first signs were worryingly promising. Against West Ham United, in Manchester United’s first Premier League game of the season, Matić did all the work Pogba is too creative to want to do on a consistent basis, cleaning up behind him and generally providing a sense of positional awareness that United lacked last season, especially when Marouane Fellaini played next to Pogba.
“I think we [Pogba and Matić] play together very well,” Matić told United’s official website on Friday. “We help each other. I have to say he played good in attack and also helped a lot when we were defending. He always played next to me. We are there on the pitch to fight for each other. We will continue like this, and I’m happy to have him in the team.”
It’s interesting that Matić pointed out Pogba’s defensive contribution, because that isn’t something the Frenchman has often been praised for. Criticisms of Pogba’s defensive awareness seemed justified at times last season, particularly from set pieces.
It is illuminating, though, how quickly inserting a player like Matić into a football team can improve the perception of the players around him. Another complaint about Pogba last season, less fair than the barbs about his defensive game, surrounded the idea that a footballer costing £89 million should be able to perform without players bought specifically to help him out.
It’s a nonsense theory, of course, and the signing of Matić proves it. Mourinho knows that Pogba’s game is at its best when he is allowed to break forward without concern for what is going on behind him. The fourth goal against West Ham, when Pogba strode into an advanced midfield area before unleashing a precise shot past Joe Hart, is the kind of thing Mourinho must have envisaged when he bought Matić.
Initial impressions only. If Matić and Pogba dovetail against Swansea City on Saturday like they did against West Ham, perhaps United supporters will have cause to get giddier.


Real Madrid is could be about to reignite its interest in Manchester United goalkeeper David de Gea by bidding £46 million (about $59 million) for the Spaniard, according to reports.
Zinedine Zidane, the Madrid manager, has decided against the need for more outfield players, cancelling plans to bid for Monaco’s  Kylian Mbappe, according to  The Sun, which means the club can return for  De Gea.
The rise of Marco Asensio, the 21-year-old forward who scored a stunning goal in El Clasico on Wednesday night, has reassured the French manager about his team’s strength in depth.
But Real has long been interested in bringing former Atletico Madrid goalkeeper De Gea back to the Spanish capital and the report says the club is preparing an offer of £46 million.
United puts the 26-year-old’s valuation as considerably higher than that, but Jose Mourinho is believed to have faith in his reserve choice Sertgio Romero should a deal be completed.
Related:   Manchester United Bids £39 Million For Winger, Arsenal Set to Lose Defender
Manchester United has, however, only strengthened its squad this summer, with Mourinho spending £150 million during the transfer window on three players in different areas of his team.
Swedish center back Victor Lindelof was the first through the door at Old Trafford, followed by Belgian striker Romelu Lukaku for £75 million. Then, Mourinho pulled off the shock signing of Nemanja Matic, for £40 million from Chelsea, which has significantly bolstered his midfield.
All three featured in United’s Premier League opener against West Ham on Sunday, with Lukaku scoring twice and Matic allowing Paul Pogba license to get forward.
United faces Swansea on Saturday with De Gea expected to start in goal for Mourinho’s team. But with just two weeks remaining of the window, the prospect of losing De Gea would not please either Mourinho or the Old Trafford faithful.


Through most of the summer transfer window of 2017, Tottenham Hotspur has resisted the urge to spend its share of the Premier League’s vast television contract.
Mauricio Pochettino’s team hasn’t signed a player yet, and even worse—for those who cling to their team’s activity in the transfer market with a fervor bordering on the religious—it lost one in Kyle Walker: The right-back went to Manchester City for £50 million ($64.4 million).
Tottenham, which finished runner-up in the 2016-17 Premier League and has been the league’s most consistent side over the past two seasons, may be more circumspect than its rivals, but it is not a totally different beast and knows it must speculate even to stand still, let alone move forward.
Pochettino waited until two weeks before the summer transfer window closes to move for a player. Davinson Sanchez, the 21-year-old Ajax defender, is set to arrive in a deal that could eventually rise to £42 million, according to The Guardian.
Sanchez caught Tottenham's eye during Ajax’s run to the Europa League final last season as a skilful, muscular presence in central defense. He was one of a select few players to emerge in credit from the chastening Europa League Final defeat to Manchester United in Stockholm in May. That night, José Mourinho brilliantly nullified Ajax’s talented young team, but Sanchez remained defiant. Such qualities, mental as much as physical, do not come cheap.
Despite Sanchez’s undoubted talent and potential, in a way this appears a curious signing. A club-record transfer would expect, normally, to slot straight into the first team, but Spurs already have two of the Premier League’s best center backs, and perhaps its best central defensive partnership, in Jan Vertonghen and Toby Alderweireld.
As it stands, Tottenham has paid £42 million for a backup, but Vertonghen in particular has struggled with injuries, so Sanchez should get his chance soon enough.
There wasn’t much to fix in Tottenham’s team, so Pochettino has instead chosen to patch over future problems before they appear. If Sanchez plays up to and beyond expectations, that could prove a prudent strategy.


Kevin Durant has joined the long list of American athletes protesting against President Donald Trump, with the NBA star insisting he won’t attend the White House if Golden State is invited.
Traditionally, the NBA champions visit the president in Washington at some point during the season after winning the title. In November,  President Obama hosted the 2016 champion Cleveland Cavaliers at the White House.
But ever since  Donald Trump was elected to office, there has been questions about whether the Warriors would meet with him. The answer, for  Durant anyway, is a resounding no.
“Nah, I won’t do that,” Durant told  ESPN. “I don’t respect who’s in office right now.” Durant’s words follow that of fellow  basketball star LeBron James, one of the Cavaliers players to visit Obama last fall. He said Trump had made hate “fashionable again” and described him as the “so-called president.”
Prior to that, NFL’s Michael Bennett had protested against the national anthem by sitting down, and implored white players to join in to have any impact. Last year, Colin Kaepernick set the tone by kneeling during the anthem.
Related:   Kevin Durant Opens Up on Whether LeBron James Should Be Traded
President Barack Obama, front center, with NBA champions Cleveland Cavaliers at White House, Washington, November 10, 2016.   Alex Wong/Getty
The disdain toward  Trump comes after he was condemned for defending far-right marchers that were involved in violence in Charlottesville, which saw one woman killed when a car was deliberately driven into a crowd. “Not all of those people were neo-Nazis, not all of those people were white supremacists,” Trump said.
Durant believes his teammates will support him in his boycott. “I don’t agree with what [Trump] agrees with, so my voice is going to by heard by not doing that,” he said. “That’s just me personally, but if I know my guys well enough, they’ll all agree with me.”
The 28-year-old insisted that Trump was not only having a negative effect on race relations, but was heavily involved in it. “He’s definitely driving it,” Durant added. “I feel ever since he’s got into office, or since he ran for presidency, our country has been so divided and it’s not a coincidence. When Obama was in office, things were looking up. We had so much hope in our communities where I come from because we had a black president, and that was a first.”


You can almost hear it: that deep, heavy exhale of relief coming out of north London this morning as Tottenham Hotspur finally spends some money in this transfer window.
Mauricio Pochettino’s team has plodded along all summer, retaining its best players and squeezing all the juice out of its sales (Manchester City paid £54 million, or $69 million, for Kyle Walker), while builders put together a shiny, and expensive, new stadium in  Tottenham.
But finally, the team can put an end to jibes from rival fans comparing Spurs to  Arsenal. Tottenham, it seems, has opened its wallet. Elsewhere,  Manchester United is looking to dig even deeper into its purse as it searches for a winger.
Here,  Newsweek  guides you through all you the news and rumors swirling around the Premier League’s transfer window:
Tottenham is on the verge of completing the signing of Ajax center-back  Davinson Sanchez, according to the  Daily Telegraph. And it won’t be cheap. Spurs will pay £28 million for the 21-year-old with a possible add-on fee of £14 million, according to  The Independent.
Manchester United, however, is a club that is used to spending a lot of money, particularly over the past few seasons. This summer, José Mourinho’s team has already spent around £150 million, but the Portuguese wants more and is determined to sign Inter Milan winger  Ivan Perisić. The  Daily Mirror says United has only tabled a bid of £38 million, though.  
The  same newspaper says that Chelsea has seen a £63 million offer for Juventus left-back  Alex Sandro rejected, with Antonio Conte determined to sign the 26-year-old Brazilian.
Related:   The £200 Million Gamble Arsene Wenger Is Prepared To Take At Arsenal
Barcelona has admitted it will be “difficult” to sign  Philippe Coutinho from Liverpool due to the fact he does not have a buyout clause from Anfield, the  Liverpool Echo says. The La Liga giant has reportedly been willing to pay £120 million for the Brazilian, but the  Daily Telegraph says Barca will continue to fight for the signing until the end of the transfer window.
Chelsea outcast  Diego Costa says he will not return to Stamford Bridge as he wants a move to Atlético Madrid, according to the  Daily Telegraph. But in a surprise move,  The Sun says, big-spending Everton will look to take the Spaniard on loan from Chelsea this season.
Finally, Arsenal is set to lose center-back  Gabriel for £10 million, according to the  London Evening Standard. The 26-year-old Brazilian is set to join Spanish club Valencia.


Marco Asensio’s goal in the second leg of the Spanish Super Cup against Barcelona on Wednesday was wonderful, but it was not a surprise.
Asensio, the 21-year-old winger from Mallorca, picked the ball up around 30 yards from the Barcelona goal. He shifted the ball almost imperceptibly onto his left foot and then, with minimal backlift, he sent a swerving, dipping shot into the top corner. Marc-Andre ter Stegen, the Barcelona goalkeeper, was well-positioned to save the strike and yet he didn’t move, just watched it scorch past him, a firework from a world slightly more fabulous than this one.
If you wear spectacles, sometimes you will search madly for them in drawers and on worktops before finding them on the end of your nose. Signed from Mallorca in 2014, Asensio was always meant to be good but it’s probable Real never expected his progression to be this rapid. He scored in the Champions League final against Juventus in June and he scored in the first leg of the Super Cup last week with a goal almost as ridiculous as his second-leg effort.
It takes a special talent to make Gareth Bale seem like the past. Bale continues to work his way back tentatively from injury; he was left out of the Real team on Tuesday for Asensio and when the youngster was substituted it was for Theo Hernandez, not Bale.
It’s possible to view Bale’s omission from several different perspectives, of course. Isco, too, was left on the bench and he remains a crucial part of Zinedine Zidane’s plans this season. But Isco does not have to compete with the startling Asensio. Right now, it is hard to see how it is possible for Zidane to leave Asensio out of his starting lineup. So either he luxuriates in a 86 million pound substitute or Real signals to Europe’s circling predatory birds that Bale is available for a transfer. It was revealed this week that Jose Mourinho and Manchester United have made one play for Bale this summer already. The rise and rise of Asensio should give them renewed hope for the chase.


Although the game provided drama and entertainment for the neutral, Jurgen Klopp will have been dissatisfied with Liverpool's start to the Premier League season.
Away to Watford, at Vicarage Road on Saturday,  Liverpool saw a lead slip away twice and had to settle for a draw. Free-flowing, creative  Liverpool was at its best going forward but, also, at its typical worst at the back.
Sadio Mane returned to the ranks after injury kept him out of the team at the end of last season, scoring the first goal for  Klopp’s team. Then, new summer signing Mohamed Salah, £34 million (about $44 million) from Roma, looked to have won the game as  Liverpool went 3-2 ahead with half an hour to play, only to see a late equalizer from Miguel Britos.
With Mane and Salah joining the impressive Roberto Firmino up front, Klopp’s attack looked as lethal as ever. But his defense was crying out for organization and more quality.
All three of Watford’s goals game from poor marking by the Merseysiders. The defense, it seemed, was the first area Klopp would strengthen this summer, with Liverpool set to sign Virgil van Dijk from Southampton.
Related:   Liverpool Identifies Philippe Coutinho Replacement as Barcelona Ups Offer
It has turned out not to be, so far, with Liverpool apologizing to the St Mary’s club for its pursuit of the Dutch center back and withdrawing interest. There is, though, still a chance that Van Dijk could begin September playing football at Anfield after he submitted a transfer request.
Although Liverpool possesses one of the league’s strongest forward lines, it is still lacking. Last season, of the six defeats Klopp’s team suffered in the Premier League, only one game against a team that finished in the top half of the table — and that was Eddie Howe’s Bournemouth.
Related:   Liverpool Fends Off Coutinho Bids, Now Faces Offer For Other Star Player
These losses, in most cases, came when Liverpool was up against teams that put out a regimented team, wary of throwing too many men forward. Games like this required a big man up front, a striker who could score from a set piece or bully his way to goal; a player Liverpool doesn’t have.
This is an area Klopp should consider, but the German manager seems satisfied with his squad and determined to play with his philosophy.
But with Liverpool competing in both the Premier League and Champions League this season, will one signing be enough for Klopp to finally deliver some silverware?


Arsene Wenger is willing to take a £200 million (about $258 million) gamble on keeping out-of-contract players, and insists he has the backing of the Arsenal board, according to reports.
The north London club has begun this  Premier League season with some of its best players heading into the final year of their contracts.
Alexis Sanchez, Mesut Ozil and  Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain will all leave for free next summer if new deals are not made, seeing  Arsenal write off at least £200 million worth of business.
Earlier this week,  Wenge r insisted that none of his star players would be sold during this transfer window but also refused to guarantee they would be at the Emirates after the August 31 deadline closes.
“One hundred per cent never exists, because in our job [guarantees] never exist,” said Wenger, as quoted by the  Daily Mail.
“But today, yes. I think all...three will stay. I will fight for them to stay. It’s my decision, but after the board has to, of course, agree with me.
“And if they don’t agree we have to consider it as well, and I will accept it. But the board is behind me on that. [Keeping them] is a financial sacrifice; it is a sacrifice that you have to calculate, how much it costs.”
Related:   Arsene Wenger Admits His Best Player Could Leave Arsenal
And it could be a costly error for Arsenal this season. A variety of clubs, including Manchester City, Chelsea and Bayern Munich wanted Sanchez, who looked unsettled at the Emirates last season. Offers of around £80 million are thought to have been made to Arsenal, but Wenger did not want to sell to a direct rival through fear of negatively affecting his team.
Oxlade-Chamberlain is another target for Antonio Conte’s Chelsea, with some reports saying the west London club is confident of landing the 23-year-old midfielder for £35 million.
Chelsea is desperate for signings after losing the opening game of the season 3-2 to Burnley with a slim squad.


Golden State star Kevin Durant insists the Cavaliers shouldn’t trade LeBron James but believes Cleveland could be a force without him.
Durant, who was part of the Warriors team that beat James and the Cavs in the NBA Finals earlier this summer, entered into a debate about his rival on social media.
Responding to rapper Lil Dicky, who once featured  Durant in one of his music videos, the Warriors man claimed Cleveland would be foolish to allow James to leave.
After Lil Dicky said the team should “one thousand percent” trade James, Durant jumped in and said that you “can’t trade a legend. He is Cleveland, he gets to hold the cards."
James is believed to be unsettled, though. After losing the NBA championship and seeing Cavs chairman Dan Gilbert fire General Manager David Griffin, the 32-year-old is reported to be frustrated and can opt out of his contract next summer.       
Because of this, Lil Dicky said that if he were James, he would “despise Gilbert for a variety of reasons.” He also told Durant that he thought Gilbert would want to get “something back this time” after James left Cavs for Miami Heat in 2010. “He’s gone,” Lil Dicky said.
But although Durant said he understood the situation, he added that James, the three-time NBA champion, was not a unique player, suggesting Cavs could not treat him like any other.
He added: “Last time he left they got like 3 number one picks. So either way they are good lol.”
 
u can&#39;t trade a legend. He is Cleveland, he gets to hold the cards
 
 
I feel what you&#39;re saying. Most owners think that way, but then you realize it&#39;s lebron james.
 
 
last time he left they got like 3 number one picks. So either way they are good lol
 
Cleveland, however, will not want to lose both James and Kyrie Irving, who made a trade request earlier this summer; that could be nuclear.


The Oxford English Dictionary defines F.O.M.O., or “Fear Of Missing Out,” as, “Anxiety that an exciting or interesting event may currently be happening elsewhere, often aroused by posts seen on social media.”
But this peculiarly millennial angst can seep into Premier League football clubs too. It is possible to imagine Jose Mourinho sat in darkened room at the weekend, pain in his eyes and unspent banknotes weighing heavily in his pocket, as he watched Neymar's sparkling debut for Paris Saint-Germain—in which he scored once and generally looked like one of the world’s best players, if not one worth €222 million ($261 million), 
Mourinho reportedly tried to sign Neymar this summer from Barcelona, and that is not all: on The Transfer Podcast, journalist Duncan Castles also reveals that United made approaches for Antoine Griezmann and Gareth Bale.
“Antoine Griezmann he [Mourinho] tried to get, Neymar he was involved in trying to persuade to come to Manchester United, he's tried to get Gareth Bale,” Castles said, quoted by the Daily Star.
“He obviously sees that Man Utd need more of that if he's to make them what he's expected to—contenders for the Champions League.”
Griezmann remains an Atletico Madrid player, while Bale is still at Real Madrid. Mourinho beat Chelsea to the signing of Romelu Lukaku to fill his need for a striker, and the Belgian has made a prolific start to his United career.
Still, it’s instructive to learn a little more of Mourinho’s plans this summer. Clearly, he still sees United’s left wing as a problem area. Neymar is clearly now off limits and a Bale transfer is probably unachievable too, at least this summer. But don’t be surprised to see United active in the last two weeks of the transfer window, as Mourinho tries to avoid missing out on any more invitations to parties.


The last two weeks of the summer transfer window will be frantic for Antonio Conte more than any other manager as he looks for new signings to galvanize the underperforming Premier League champion.
Despite  Chelsea spending £150 million (about $193 million) this summer, the Italian coach is desperately in search of new additions to his squad. While Tottenham hasn’t made a signing this window, it has also retained its players, something Chelsea hasn't managed—Conte lost Nemanja Matic and  Diego Costa is believed to be leaving.
But  Conte is not the only manager on the lookout for new signings. Manchester City’s £250 million spending spree doesn’t look over, while  Manchester United is planning on bringing back a fan favorite to Old Trafford.
Here,  Newsweek  guides you through all the news and rumors swirling around the Premier League as the transfer window gradually begins to shut:
Chelsea looks set to miss out on Tottenham left-back  Danny Rose as Spurs is not willing to entertain any offers for the 27-year-old, according to the  London Evening Standard. Chelsea was willing to pay £50 million for Rose and would have doubled his salary, following the defender’s comments last week that he wasn’t paid what he was worth.
But Chelsea has not given up on its other target at left-back. Conte is relying on Juventus’  Alex Sandro to hand in a transfer request after it had two bids rejected by the Italian giant, the  London Evening Standard also reported. But the fee is likely to be at least £60 million.
Related:   Manchester United’s summer spending spree is over, but Jose Mourinho already has plans for January
Manchester United might have found a way to bring  Zlatan Ibrahimovic back to Old Trafford this summer, according to  The Independent. The 35-year-old Swedish striker was released by United after getting injured at the end of last season, and is still unlikely to play until the new year. But Jose Mourinho wants Ibrahimovic to return with a part-time coaching role.
Across town, Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City has had an £18 million bid for West Brom defender  Jonny Evans rejected, according to  the BBC. The move would be controversial after Evans played for Manchester United for so many years, but it has been done before. Argentinian striker Carlos Tevez played in both red and sky blue.
Related:   Chelsea makes £50 million bid, Spurs hijacks Manchester United deal
Tottenham continues to search for its first signing of the season, but it doesn’t look likely to be Celta Vigo midfielder  Pape Cheikh Diop, according to the  Daily Mail, after Lyon outbid the north London club’s £9 million offer.
Leicester City wants £40 million from Chelsea for midfielder  Danny Drinkwater but Conte’s club has offered £25 million plus add-ons, also according to the  Daily Mail. Should Chelsea meet Leicester’s demands it would see all the cash received for Matic spent on Drinkwater.


The chorus rebuking President Donald Trump grows louder by the day, and it isn’t exactly novel for just about anyone—outside of Republicans in Congress, that is—to admonish the president. But when LeBron James does something—anything, really—it stands out.
There is no current American athlete more important, famous or relevant. For the better part of a decade he’s been the best player in a sport that’s increasingly popular with young Americans. And his entire career he’s avoided the sorts of scandals that have plagued countless other top athletes. So it matters when James criticizes the president of the United States.
He did so repeatedly and forcefully this week after Trump opted to half-heartedly condemn neo-Nazis—claiming counterprotesters were also bad—even after a white supremacist drove a car into a group of anti-Nazi marchers in Charlottesville, Virginia, killing a woman and injuring more than a dozen. Said James in front of thousands of kids at an event for his charity:
“I know there’s a lot of tragic things happening in Charlottesville. I just want to speak on it right now. I have this platform and I'm somebody that has a voice of command, and the only way for us to be able to get better as a society and us to get better as people is love. And that’s the only way we’re going to be able to conquer something at the end of the day. It’s not about the guy that’s the so-called president of the United States, or whatever the case. It’s not about a teacher that you don’t feel like cares about whatˆ’s going on with you every day. It’s not about people that you just don’t feel like want to give the best energy and effort to you. It’s about us. It’s about us looking in the mirror. Kids all the way up to the adults. It’s about all of us looking in the mirror and saying, ‘What can we do better to help change?’ And if we can all do that and give 110 percent...then that’s all you can ask for. So, shoutout to the innocent people in Charlottesville and shoutout to everybody across the world that just want to be great and just want to love. Thank you, and I love you all.”
He would later follow up with a tweet that was also critical of Trump. James wrote, “Hate has always existed in America. Yes, we know that but Donald Trump just made it fashionable again! Statues has nothing to do with us now!”
James had no obligation to speak his mind. And his decision to do so—even if to say something as ostensibly obvious as Nazis are bad, racism is wrong, and love is good—comes with potential negative ramifications. When it comes down to it, athletes are effectively in sales—they’re convincing you their thing (a ticket to a game, a sneaker, a television package) provides more value than literally anything else you could spend that money on. A lot of people voted for Trump, which means a lot of people might disagree with James. But his generation, perhaps with the Cleveland star at the helm, has done well to ignore the “Stick to sports” folks who seem to plague every message board online.
Michael Jordan lent his celebrity to a variety of products during his career, most notably Nike’s, with his signature Air Jordan sneakers.   Reuters
That hasn’t always been the case. Michael Jordan—James’ historical counterpart and the barometer by which the Cleveland Cavalier has always been measured—famously avoided anything that might put a crack in his sterling image. It’s lore that Jordan once avoided giving an endorsement on a political race in his home state of North Carolina, even though one candidate was widely considered a racist, because, “Republicans buy shoes, too.” And while that quote was secondhand and has since been called into question, it does do a nice job of summarizing the way Jordan operated.
But more and more athletes—African-American athletes, especially—have begun taking stances against things they feel are unjust, in the model of predecessors like Kareem Abdul Jabbar, Jackie Robinson and Muhammad Ali. In 2016, for instance, James and fellow NBA superstars Carmelo Anthony, Chris Paul and Dwayne Wade cited these former athletes when they opened ESPN’s ESPY Awards with a call for social change after a week defined by police-involved shootings. 
“The system is broken, the problems are not new, the violence is not new, and the racial divide definitely is not new, but the urgency for change is definitely at an all-time high,” Anthony said.
Since then, NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick began taking a knee during the national anthem to protest the oppression of people of color in the United States, inspiring others to follow suit, and has since effectively been blackballed from the league. But athletes aren’t relenting. Recently unretired Oakland Raider Marshawn Lynch sat during the anthem this week, as did Seattle Seahawk Michael Bennet. 
“The last week, with everything that’s been going on in the last couple months—especially after the last couple days seeing everything in [Charlottesville] Virginia...I just wanted to be able to continue to use my platform to be able to speak on injustice,” Bennett said. 
San Francisco 49ers free safety Eric Reid (35), quarterback Colin Kaepernick (7) and outside linebacker Eli Harold (58) take a knee during the national anthem before kickoff against the Seattle Seahawks at CenturyLink Field in Seattle, on September 25, 2016.   USA Today Sports/Reuters
It all points to a simple fact: Sports are not a haven from politics or real-world issues anymore. That’s important. The country is divided at the moment, and we largely only ingest the news and entertainment we want to ingest. Consider that the most popular TV show these days, Game of Thrones, is watched by about 16 million people while more than 105 million people watched the finale of M*A*S*H in 1983.
Live sports are one of the few things we really pay attention to en masse. About 111 million people watched the latest Super Bowl, while nearly 25 million watched Game 5 of the latest NBA Finals. LeBron James could live a sterilized public life. It’d likely be easier. But he has millions of people at his beck and call, and in a 24-hour news cycle, literally everything he does is news. (Similar to the aforementioned “so-called president.”)
It might seem a benign observation on James’ part to condemn white supremacists and to tell the world he felt heartbreak over senseless death. But the year is 2017, and amid the constant tumult and shouting, it’s helpful to have a voice—especially one massively amplified by celebrity—advocate for love.


Is the second goodbye harder or easier than the first, or does a repeated parting further numb the lover already desensitized to grief?
The Cleveland Cavaliers may be about to find out.
For most of high summer it has seemed the Cavaliers’ biggest headache is finding a suitable trade partner for Kyrie Irving, to surround James with the experience he needs to win a second title in Cleveland.
In other words, the plan appeared to be to placate James, who is likely to lose the man he has called his “little brother,” one of the NBA’s elite offensive players and a prized asset despite his suspect defense.
LeBron James, right, and Kyrie Irving at Staples Center in Los Angeles on March 19. The Cavaliers must prepare for a possible future without James or Irving.   Harry How/Getty
Not so, according to ESPN. Adrian Wojnarowski reported on Tuesday that the Cavaliers have been stung into action by Irving’s trade request and want to accelerate the process of making their roster younger. That’s at odds with James’s wishes but the Cavaliers have decided they cannot be “reactive” to James, according to Wojnarowski. Cleveland is looking at the Knicks’ Kristaps Porzingis and two of the top draft picks from 2017, the Celtics’ Jayson Tatum and the Phoenix Suns’ Josh Jackson.
What does this mean? The Cavaliers are going to rebuild with or without James, who can opt out of the final year of his contract next summer. Wojnarowski says the Cavaliers haven’t “given up” on re-signing James but they want him to commit to a long-term deal. That seems fair enough on both sides, as a proper rebuild is going to be pretty difficult while there is still uncertainty over your two marquee players in James and Irving. From James’s point of view, this will almost certainly be the last time in his career he can test free agency.
What will the mood be like in northeast Ohio should James leave for a second time? Now James has led the Cavaliers to a championship, the lover’s bile should be less poisonous but then you can never predict the strength of a sports fan’s scorn. Regardless, James has to do what’s right for James, and the Cavaliers have to consider the best option to allow them to re-tool. A parting of the ways, bitter as it may sound, may be the most logical option.


Last year, Usain Bolt had the opportunity to train with German Bundesliga club Borussia Dortmund, but it wasn’t where he wanted to be.
Bolt, the  eight-time Olympic gold medalist, would have rather been in the northwest of England, wearing the red jersey of the Red Devils. “For me,”  he said in November, “if I could get to play for  Manchester United, that would be like a dream come true. That would be epic.”
And now, having retired from athletics Saturday at the World Championships in London, he will have his chance.  Bolt is due to feature for  Manchester United in a “Legends” game against Barcelona on September 2, according to Spanish newspaper  AS.
Bolt, who says he is a fan of Jose Mourinho’s team, will be joined in the lineup by former United stars including Edwin van der Sar, Paul Scholes, Dwight Yorke and Phil Neville.
In the blue and garnet of Barcelona will be Gaizka Mendieta, Eric Abidal, Miguel Ángel Nadal, Gheorghe Popescu, Ion Andoni Goikoetxea and Julio Salinas.
Related: Usain Bolt predicts length of his 100 meters legacy
Bolt hung up his running spikes Saturday after competing in his last race, the 4x100 meter relay for Jamaica, having run the 100 meter final on August 5. The 30-year-old came third in the very last weekend, behind Americans  Justin Gatlin, who was first, and Christian Coleman.
Bolt then raced on Saturday in what would be his final competition, in the Jamaican relay team, but it ended in disaster. Running the last leg of the 4x100 meters, he pulled his hamstring and was unable to finish.
He will hope the injury recovers enough to allow him to appear in the red of Manchester United in a fortnight. Dortmund just won’t do.


In his second season as Manchester United manager, Jose Mourinho appears close to building a team capable of challenging for the Premier League.
His United team was one of the most impressive performers on the opening weekend of the 2017-18 season, bolting out of the starting gate in a 4-0 victory against a poor West Ham United team at Old Trafford on Sunday.
Two of United’s new signings, Nemanja Matic and Romelu Lukaku, played key roles in the victory and look as if they will be vital in helping United improve upon its sixth-place finish from last season.
Even Mourinho’s detractors would struggle to deny that United is close to title contention, with another new signing, Victor Lindelof, yet to be integrated into the starting lineup.
There is, though, an area of United’s team Mourinho is yet to fix completely, and he manages it then it could put the club over the top as title favorite alongside Manchester City.
Though Marcus Rashford performed strongly against West Ham, providing the assist for Lukaku’s first goal and almost scoring himself with a curling shot off the post in the second half, Mourinho cannot rely on a teenager to fill that crucial space on the left wing all season long. Nor can he totally trust Anthony Martial to track back and defend. In any case, Martial is more of an inside-forward, as he showed with his fine late goal in the West Ham victory.
Mourinho has been chasing a left winger all summer, with Ivan Perisic and Real Madrid’s Gareth Bale both linked with moves to Old Trafford. Neither of those transfers look likely to come off and if they don’t, it will not be a disaster for the Portuguese. United has enough of a threat from the right, with Henrikh Mkhitaryan, to make up for the inconsistency of youth on its left-hand side.
A left winger does look like the final piece, though, in a potential title-winning side. Expect Mourinho to go all in for one in the final two weeks of this transfer window.


Liverpool returns to Champions League action Tuesday night, but faces tough competition in the qualifying stage.
Julien Nagelsmann, the 30-year-old German manager, welcomes  Jurgen Klopp and his  Liverpool team to the Rhein-Neckar-Arena for the first leg against Hoffenheim.
Liverpool has not appeared in the group stage of the Champions League since 2014, but will end that run by beating Bundesliga club  Hoffenheim over two legs.
The game will be aired live on Fox Sports 1 and Fox Deportes, while you can also stream it at  fuboTV and  Fox Sports Go. Kick-off is at 2.45 p.m. (ET). 
Liverpool is without its star player  Philippe Coutinho, who is still linked with a move to Barcelona after submitting a transfer request, but that is not concerning Klopp.
Related:   Liverpool Sends Secret Agent to Convince Philippe Coutinho to Stay
“For three months we have been looking forward to this game,” he said, as quoted by the  BBC.
“We are here, in a good mood, looking forward to the game but aware of the qualities of the opposition and the difficulty of the game.
“But it is just good to be here and to have the chance even though we know it is really hard.”
Liverpool’s start to the season didn’t go quite as planned as Klopp’s team was held to a 3-3 draw with Watford at Vicarage Road.
Related:   Liverpool Eyes Potential Replacement For Philippe Coutinho
The positive for the Merseysiders was that new signing Mohamed Salah scored on his debut for the team, while Sadio Mane was also on target after returning from injury.
Liverpool will host Crystal Palace at Anfield on Saturday before Hoffenheim travels to the north-west of England on Wednesday, August 23 for the second leg.


Since the Major League Baseball All-Star break, Aaron Judge had been slumping, missing pitches he was crushing in the first half of the season.
On Monday night Judge broke out at one of the Yankees’ more crucial moments of the season. With Joe Girardi’s team trailing the Mets 2-1 in the sixth inning, Judge took a pitch from Rafael Montero and hammered it to right-center field.
Aaron Hicks put the Yankees ahead in the eighth inning with his own home run, before catcher Gary Sanchez added another homer for a 4-2 Yankees victory.
Judge and Sanchez both reached 40 career home runs with the hits, while the Yankees gained a game on the Boston Red Sox in the race for the American League East title. The Red Sox lost 7-3 to the Cleveland Indians at Fenway Park on Monday night.
You can watch Judge’s blast, his first home run in 11 games, here.



Arsenal has put up a fierce stance over the future of Alexis Sanchez. “He is not for sale,” is the constant message from Arsene Wenger’s mouth, but it doesn’t seem to be getting through to Manchester City.
Despite spending about £250 million this summer (around $324 million) on new recruits,  Pep Guardiola is not finished. According to the  Daily Telegraph, City will test the resolve of  Arsenal once more before the transfer window closes by making an £60 million ($78m) offer.
The report says that City is willing to make  Sanchez the highest paid player in the Premier League by offering him £400,000 a week, including bonuses and image rights, to lure him from the  Emirates Stadium.
Despite Wenger’s adamant approach to Sanchez, uncertainty still surrounds the Chilean forward due to his absence. Although he was sat in the stands at the Emirates Stadium on Friday for Arsenal’s dramatic 4-3 win over Leicester City, he is said to be unavailable due to abdominal pains. He may even miss this coming weekend’s match with Stoke City, too.
Sanchez has already worked with Guardiola, signed by the Spaniard during his time at Barcelona. Together, they won four trophies in two seasons, before Guardiola left for a sabbatical.
Related:   Chelsea to Land £35 Million Star From Premier League Rival Arsenal
Chelsea has also been linked with a move for Sanchez but, like City, Arsenal does not want to sell to a direct rival, fearing the harm he could do. The more likely destination has been Bayern Munich, capable of paying Sanchez’s high wages and not a direct rival of Arsenal.
If the saga rumbles on into January unresolved, the north London club will not have a say over the type of jersey Sanchez next wears, for he will be free to speak to any club he likes and come to a pre-contract agreement.
Arsenal already has reinforcements at the Emirates Stadium this summer. The Gunners signed Alexandre Lacazette for a club record £46.5 million ($60m), with the Frenchman scoring on his debut while Olivier Giroud came off the bench to head in a dramatic winner.
After such a positive result, Arsenal may be willing to consider a high offer for Sanchez instead of letting him go for free next summer.


It is only mid-August, but already Liverpool faces two defining fixtures in itsseason.
Jurgen Klopp’s team travels to Rhein-Neckar-Arena in southwestern Germany on Tuesday evening to face Hoffenheim in the Champions League playoffs. The prize: lucrative qualification for Europe’s premier club competition.
Failure will mean more soul-searching for Klopp and Liverpool, and the unravelling of last season’s progress in the Premier League. Here’s how defeat by the Bundesliga team could hurt Liverpool.
While the Premier League television contract still dwarfs money earned from the Champions League, that doesn’t make the prize money irrelevant. In reaching the semifinals in 2015-16, Manchester City took in €83.8 million ($98.5 million) according to The Guardian - enough to afford one more elite player, if not his wages too.
Beating Hoffenheim to reach the group stage of the Champions League would earn Liverpool €12.7 million ($14.9 million) plus its share of the market pool - the money UEFA allocates to Champions League participants according to the size of the television markets in each club’s country. Qualification from the group stage becomes progressively more lucrative thanks to UEFA’s prize money system.
Yes, footballers want to play for money. That’s not going to change, ever. But it often seems a little insulting to suggest that is their only motivation. The best players want to play in the best club competition, which remains the Champions League.
Liverpool has endured a difficult summer attempting to recruit players, with several huge, failed bids for RB Leipzig’s Naby Keita. Leipzig can hold onto Keita because they are in the Champions League; qualification could allow Liverpool to attract the players Jurgen Klopp wants and needs to improve his squad. Fail against Hoffenheim over the two legs, and Klopp will have to market the Europa League as an attractive destination.
Coutinho won’t play in the first leg against Hoffenheim as reports and rumors swirl around a transfer to Barcelona. Liverpool seems determined to keep hold of its best and most crucial player but missing out on playing in the Champions League would give Coutinho leverage to put even more pressure on Liverpool to let him leave.
It’s too early in the season to say that Klopp is a man under pressure but Liverpool showed some familiar mistakes in its first Premier League fixture of the season against Watford on Saturday, including defensive weaknesses from set pieces. Smooth progress to the group stages would relieve much of the early-season tension around Anfield.
Liverpool held its nerve at the end of last season to qualify for this stage of the Champions League but it lost two major finals in its first season under Klopp and there may remain a perception that it chokes at crucial moments. Failure against Hoffenheim would add weight to that view.
Not directly Liverpool's problem, of course. But for a league regularly marketed as the “best in the world,” the Premier League has a poor recent record of sending teams to the later stages of the Champions League. Only Leicester made it last season, harming the Premier League’s reputation compared to Serie A, the Bundesliga and La Liga.
Hoffenheim, the fourth-best team last season, against England’s fourth-best team in Liverpool is a fascinating test of how strong the Premier League really is, versus its self-regard.


The Lakers fans adored Magic Johnson on the court, but they’ll love him even more in the boardroom if he completes the move of the decade.
Johnson played a pivotal part in bringing  Lonzo Ball to Staples Center earlier this summer in the NBA trade, but he could complete the ultimate scoop next summer.
LeBron James's future in Cleveland in far from certain. The 32-year-old was left frustrated by losing the NBA Finals to Golden State, irritated by the firing of General Manager David Griffin and then seeing Kyrie Irving make a trade request.
James has a get-out clause, though. Next summer, he is able to exercise the right to opt out of his contract with the Cavs, to move away once again. Miami Heat has been mentioned as a  possible destination; Houston Rockets, too. But the potential of a move to  the Lakers grows ever more plausible.
James has a home in Los Angeles, he is wanted there by its newest asset and future star Ball—in an interview with ESPN earlier this summer, Ball said to James, “I think our games could help each other out a lot. Anytime you want the ball, just let me know, and it’s going to be there”—and he is close with Magic Johnson. On Monday, he wished the Lakers president a happy birthday and praised him for always being there for him throughout his career.
Related:   LeBron James Agent to The Lakers: ‘Let’s Talk’
"Happy birthday @MagicJohnson!! One of the few that's always showed love from day 1 to me! Thank you. Enjoy your day!!"  James tweeted.
Happy birthday @MagicJohnson!! One of the few that&#39;s always showed love from day 1 to me! Thank you. Enjoy your day!!

In July, reports suggested  James’s agent Rich Paul has been in talks with the Lakers, which sparked speculation over whether an agreement was already being put in place.
Whether James does decide to leave home for a second time next summer remains to be seen. What we do know is that he'll have plenty of offers, but the Lakers is increasingly making more sense.


The NBA released its schedule for 2017-18 on Monday night, and immediately threw up a whole clutch of intriguing story lines.
Chief among those is the unresolved question of where Kyrie Irving, the Cleveland Cavaliers’ star point guard, will be playing. Irving, linked with the Phoenix Suns this month, wants a trade away from the Cavaliers, who entertain the Boston Celtics on opening night.
Here are the games you should look out for in the first week of the new season.
A doozy from Oracle Arena on the first day of the season. Can Chris Paul and James Harden’s two-headed ballhandling monster provide a real rival for the Warriors? We will get a first hint here.
Can the Celtics repeat as Eastern Conference champions? Much will depend on how Gordon Hayward, one of the marquee free-agent signings of summer 2017, can help Isaiah Thomas.
Jimmy Butler, Karl-Anthony Towns and Andrew Wiggins could be one of the most dynamic front courts in the league. They run into Kawhi Leonard and the ever-excellent Spurs first up.
Will Kyrie Irving be playing in the Nevada desert by the middle of October? Even if he isn’t, the Suns should improve on last season with the startling talent of shooting guard Devin Booker.
Unmissable for a variety of reasons. Are the Knicks going to be dysfunctional again? Will Carmelo Anthony still be there? And how good are Russell Westbrook and Paul George going to be together?
The Chris Paul-less Clippers visit the Lakers for a first sighting on national television in the new season of Lonzo Ball and Magic Johnson’s young, exciting team.
LeBron James and friends head out on the road to Wisconsin, but will it be James and Irving in the back court or James and Derrick Rose?
The Warriors are certain to be one of the top two seeds in the Western Conference but some mystery still surrounds the Pelicans. Anthony Davis and DeMarcus Cousins is the scariest front-court combination in the league but only if they can work together effectively.
The Markelle Fultz-led 76ers should be energetic and exciting at the very least. One of the league’s elite point guards, DeMar DeRozan, needs to take the Raptors to the next level.
How far can an ageing Dwyane Wade take the Bulls now that Butler has departed? What Wade would give for a player of Leonard’s ability to pay alongside him…


The start of the Premier League season may be a whole new relaxing experience for managers next season.
By next summer, a rule could be in place that will see the transfer window close before the Premier League season begins, according to the  Daily Telegraph.
The news will please Jurgen Klopp who is trying to hold onto  Philippe Coutinho at Liverpool and Paul Clement who is desperate to have Gylfi Sigurdsson beyond August 31.
But, for now, the rules are yet to change, and  Premier League clubs are still looking to poach from rivals in the final few weeks of the window.
Here,  Newsweek  guides you through all the news and rumors swirling around the Premier League:
We begin with a club trying to land one of its rival’s star players. Chelsea is growing increasingly confident that it will sign English midfielder  Alex Oxlade Chamberlain from Arsenal for £35 million (about $45 million), according to the  London Evening Standard . Antonio Conte is desperate to add to his depleted squad.
But one Chelsea player has been ordered to return. After  Diego Costa claimed in an interview with the  Daily Mail on Monday that the west London club had treated him like a “criminal,” Chelsea has now ordered the Spanish striker back to Stamford Bridge, the  Guardian says, and that he must meet demands before being sold. Costa says he wants to return to Atletico Madrid.
Related:   Liverpool Identifies Potential Philippe Coutinho Replacement in Italy
Another player who could be on the move to Spain is  Philippe Coutinho, as Barcelona wants the Brazilian to replace Neymar at the Camp Nou. But Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp insists he will not be sold, and the  Mirror reports that midfielder and captain Jordan Henderson will look to convince Coutinho to remain at Anfield this season.
Liverpool is likely, however, to miss out on long-term target  Virgil van Dijk , according to  Yahoo. The Southampton defender wants a move away from St. Mary’s but is reportedly more likely to end up at Chelsea or Manchester City, although the club has slapped a £70 million price tag on the Dutch center back.
Tottenham has made little headlines in the transfer market this summer, bar for its notable inactivity; Spurs is yet to spend a penny while others reach up to £250 million. But that could be about to change as  The Independent says  Davinson Sanchez, the 21-year-old Colombian defender, has told Ajax he wants to leave for Mauricio Pochettino’s team.


Almost a month after he demanded a trade, Kyrie Irving remains a member of the Cleveland Cavaliers.
Moving Irving, the all-star point guard, was always likely to be a delicate process for the Cavaliers. The 25-year-old should command a huge return, likely a combination of draft picks and a star forward to help out LeBron James and Kevin Love right now. Anything less than a king’s ransom could be seen as a failure for the Cavaliers—and worse, it could upset James.
But finding a team willing to give up the combination of assets that will satisfy the Cavaliers is apparently proving tricky.
The latest report comes from Darren Wolfson of 1500ESPN.com. Wolfson claims the Phoenix Suns want Irving and would be prepared to give up Eric Bledsoe, a first-round draft pick in 2018 or 2019, and the number four overall pick from 2016, Dragan Bender.
The Cavaliers would ideally like the Suns’ rookie Josh Jackson in any deal, but Jackson, the fourth overall pick from the 2017 NBA Draft, doesn’t sound too positive about the likelihood of moving to northeast Ohio. "I think if that [a trade to the Cavaliers] was going to happen, it would have happened by now," Jackson said on Sunday in quotes reported by CBS.
Giving up Jackson for Irving would be a major risk for the Suns if Irving doesn’t resign with the franchise in 2018 and walks away after a year.
Another option for Irving, reported at the start of August, is a trade to the Detroit Pistons. The Detroit Free Press reported “conversations” between the Pistons’ front office and the Cavaliers. Neither the Suns nor the Pistons were on Irving’s reported list of preferred trade options.
The interest in Irving is not the problem. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported at the end of July that “approximately 20 teams” had registered interest in Irving. The issue for those teams is in deciding how much they can risk giving up for Irving, and for the Cavaliers, on the other side of the trade, in being adequately compensated for a perennial all-star and elite scorer.
If no one makes the Cavaliers a satisfactory offer, then the only realistic option is to head into training camp with Irving still a key member of the team, although Cleveland.com reports that Irving will be moved before the season starts. Irving does, however, have two years remaining on his contract. It isn’t completely inconceivable that Irving and James will end up playing together this season, though it would be strange. The process of moving Irving is certainly taking up time that the Cavaliers could use on getting better.  


Dennis Rodman has claimed San Antonio Spurs coach Gregg Popovich “hated” him and looked at him like he was “the devil,” according to reports.
Popovich joined the Spurs in what became  Rodman’s second and final year at San Antonio, before he left for the Chicago Bulls in 1995.
Rodman, now 56, finished his career with five NBA titles, the same number Popovich has won in his time with the Spurs.  Rodman averaged 5.9 points and 16.8 rebounds for the Spurs, but he looks back on his time with mixed emotions.
“The city kind of embraced me, but what’s his name, Popovich, he hated me,” Rodman told Joe Buck on Undeniable. “He hated my guts because I wasn’t a Bible guy. They looked at me like I was the devil.
“I said, my God, am I the same guy that helped get David Robinson a scoring title and MVP? Am I the same guy that averaged 19.3 rebounds per game for you? Am I the same guy who won 68 damn games? Am I that same guy, but you guys don’t like me? So I said, ‘OK, trade me.’ They traded me to the damn Bulls.”
Related:   Kim Jong-un’s Friend Dennis Rodman Says Otto Warmbier’s Release Partly Down To Him
Despite his feelings, Rodman performed just as well in Chicago. Under coach Phil Jackson, he managed an average of 5.3 points and 15.3 rebounds per game over three seasons. He was also part of the 1995–1996 Bulls team that set an NBA record of 72 wins out of 82 games in the regular season.
Rodman is known as one of the most outspoken players to have ever played basketball and continues to be well into retirement, taking on one of the sport’s most well-respected figures in Popovich.
In June, Rodman made headlines after traveling to North Korea, where he had befriended the country’s leader, Kim Jong-un.
He  said: “My purpose is to actually see if I can keep bringing sports to North Korea, that’s the main thing.”



Seahawks defensive end Michael Bennett believes his new book, Things That Make White People Uncomfortable, will help “start a conversation,” according to reports.
The 31-year-old followed his fellow NFL stars this weekend in protesting during the national anthem. Like Oakland Raiders running back  Marshawn Lynch on Saturday, Bennett sat down during the anthem on Sunday ahead of the Seahawks game against the Los Angeles Chargers.
Both Lynch and Bennett were moved to react after the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, involving far-right groups and white nationalists. “The last week, with everything that’s been going on in the last couple months—especially after the last couple days seeing everything in Virginia... [I] just wanted to be able to continue to use my platform to be able to speak on injustice,” Bennett said, as quoted by The Guardian.
“First of all, I want to make sure that people understand I love the military. My father was in the military. I love hot dogs like any other American. I love football like any other American. But I don’t love segregation. I don’t love riots. I don’t love oppression. I don’t love gender slander. And I just want to see people have equality that they deserve.”
Related:   Spike Lee Backs Rally For Quarterback Colin Kaepernick
THIS‼️‼️‼️THANK YOU @mosesbread72 for ALWAYS showing love! Michael Bennett Sits on Bench During Seahawks vs.... https://t.co/AcFOWf1SSc pic.twitter.com/D6PLyV1Ldk

NFL quarterback  Colin Kaepernick was the first to protest against the national anthem by taking a knee. But Kaepernick, who is now without a team ahead of the new season, was criticized and accused of disrespecting the American armed forces.
After the game, Bennett spoke about his upcoming book that he hopes will spark a new conversation in the United States. The title, Things That Make White People Uncomfortable, is considered controversial, but Bennett insists it is meant to catch people's attention.
“I think the title is just a title to start a conversation so people want to read it,” he said. “The book I’m focusing on is issues that I see that are important in America, and they are my views and opinion.”


The first weekend of the new Premier League season threw up surprises and predictability in almost equal measure.
Routine victories for Manchester United and Manchester City were counterbalanced by an opening-day implosion from defending champion Chelsea and a star turn from Huddersfield Town, which blitzed Crystal Palace in South London.
Here’s how the form guide looks after the first set of fixtures.
Further games will shed more light on whether Huddersfield is getting that strange phenomenon of the newly promoted team, the “bounce” before the bigger clubs work out David Wagner’s tactics.
For the moment, though, the club from West Yorkshire can bask in the mid-August sun. Huddersfield’s quick, clever attackers buzzed around a Crystal Palace side that must improve quickly under new coach Ronald de Boer. Huddersfield’s biggest problem was always likely to be scoring enough goals, but if new striker Steve Mounie can keep up the form he showed against Palace, Wagner may yet pull off the unlikely and keep his team away from relegation.
Presented with the best opportunity it will ever have to knock off the defending Premier League champion on its home ground, Burnley grasped the initiative and did not let go. Three first-half goals, two from Sam Vokes and one from defender Stephen Ward, stunned Chelsea, who also lost Cesc Fàbregas to a red card in the second period. Chelsea pulled two goals back, including one via Álvaro Morata on his Premier League debut. But Antonio Conte’s team could not spoil a terrific display from a Burnley side that was woeful away from home last season.
José Mourinho’s first season at Manchester United was defined by a fragility at Old Trafford that contributed to a disappointing finish of sixth in the league.
That doesn’t seem likely to be a problem this time around. United exploded out of the starting blocks against a sleepy West Ham United, with new signings Romelu Lukaku and Nemanja Matić particularly impressive. Lukaku scored twice. Mourinho would have been pleased with a sharp cameo from Anthony Martial and a fine strike to round the victory off from Paul Pogba, who showed sublime touches throughout. Mourinho finally has a team built in his image.
Sometimes you don’t have to make expensive signings to move forward as a team. In a summer when Paris Saint-Germain and Neymar redrew the boundaries of believability, Tottenham’s approach to the transfer market harkens back to a calmer, bygone era. Mauricio Pochettino sold Kyle Walker to Manchester City for 50 million pounds, safe in the knowledge he had a replacement already at the club in Kieran Tripper.
Tottenham also possesses talent coveted by Europe’s biggest clubs, and Christian Eriksen, Dele Alli and Harry Kane eventually proved too much for Newcastle, which lost captain Jonjo Shelvey to a senseless red card. The margin of victory could have been more than the two goals Tottenham ended with. Next week’s game against Chelsea at Wembley looms large.
Job done for Pep Guardiola, who had to wait until the 70th minute for Sergio Aguero to fire Manchester City in front against a durable Brighton team that had 22 percent of possession. City faces a tricky second game at home against Everton on August 21.
Everton’s heavy summer spending must be matched by results, and it got a win on the first day of the season from a returning favorite. Wayne Rooney’s header in first-half stoppage time was the highlight of a scrappy game against Stoke City.
Is Olivier Giroud ever going to get the love he deserves from pundits and supporters? The Frenchman came off the substitutes’ bench to complete a thrilling Arsenal comeback against Leicester City Friday night. It’s not the first time he has rescued Arsenal, and given the team’s defensive frailties, it almost certainly won’t be the last.
If Marco Silva can continue to coax dominant performances from Stefano Okaka like the one the Italian produced against Liverpool on Saturday, Watford will be well clear of relegation this season.
Tony Pulis will never play with the style to please everyone, but the West Brom manager is superb at what he does: keeping a team in the Premier League. West Brom ceded possession to Bournemouth and scored with a trademark Pulis goal, a set-piece header from defender Ahmed Hegazi.
Southampton remain in a hinterland while the future of Virgil van Dijk is resolved, but they had the better chances in a draw with Swansea City.
Swansea’s situation is strangely similar to Southampton’s, with their best player, Gylfi Sigurðsson, possibly on his way to Everton. In the circumstances, manager Paul Clement will have been pleased with a point.
As thrilling and heroic a defeat as you could imagine, although Leicester would have found a way to win this two seasons ago. Jamie Vardy scoring prolifically again will be a very good thing for Craig Shakespeare, who has Kelechi Iheanacho still to integrate.
Eddie Howe’s team should have made more of its possession against West Brom. Two frightening fixtures against Manchester City and Arsenal loom after it hosts Watford.
After almost a decade in the Premier League, Stoke could finally be at serious risk of dropping into the second tier again. This was a limp start, and they face Arsenal at home on Saturday evening.
Jürgen Klopp’s team is still vibrant in attack, still vulnerable from set pieces and still unable to hold onto a lead against one of the league’s perceived weaker teams. Until two of those three things are solved, a first Premier League title will remain a distant dream.
Chris Hughton’s team will have to be better on the ball if they want to stay up, though fixtures against the likes of City will not define their season.
Does Newcastle have the firepower in attack to avoid relegation? Not on this evidence. Manager Rafael Benítez must be backed in the transfer market before the window closes.
West Ham’s new signings looked good in theory, but only Javier Hernández emerged in credit from a horrible afternoon at Old Trafford. Slaven Bilić’s side was brittle in defense and insipid in attack.
Frank de Boer could hardly have had a more nightmarish start to life as a Premier League manager.
Is it too early to talk of a crisis? Antonio Conte’s team must find a response against Tottenham on Sunday or risk the recurrence of painful memories from its last failed title defense under Mourinho two years ago.


You see it in playgrounds across the world. One child picks another as her target and chases him. She pursues him, getting closer and closer, until he is near enough to reach out and touch. “TAG,” she shouts at the point of contact, and then it’s his turn.
Tag is a game without language, without cost; one that can be played from the moment a child begins to run. It is synonymous with youth, the happy memories of an adult’s childhood. But now, a father and son have relaunched the sport to a new competitive level, one that combines the pace and rules of tag with the agility and skills of parkour.
Christian and Damien Devaux, who live half an hour west of London, are the founders of World Chase Tag. Here,  Newsweek  guides you through everything you need to know about the sport.
“Chase Tag,” Christian says, “is basically the game of tag done with obstacles.” The game can be played as individuals or multiplayer, and there can be up to four athletes on the course, with only one chaser.
In 2009, the Devaux family was doing a little gardening in their family home just outside Windsor, England. They came up with the idea to play tag, using garden rubbish, benches and bins as obstacles to run around. “And then it just grew from there,” Christian says. In 2014, they submitted a patent for the sport, then arranged its first event that summer. “We had meet-up sessions in Hyde Park with a bit of barrier tape and then into parkour gyms, and then we built our first course.” The following year, they named it Chase Tag. 
There are four different formats of games: team chase off, multiplayer, singles chase off and winner stays on.
In team chase off, there are two teams with up to six competitors. The match is divided into an agreed number of sets which consist of around 10 to 16 chases. During each chase, the chaser has 20 seconds to catch and tag his opponent, with the winner staying on to face the next opponent from the loser’s team. A point is awarded to the team that wins each chase.
Similarly, in the singles chase off, there are only two competitors in the match, but the winner is the first to get 10 points, and he or she must win by two clear points. In this game, the match is played in rounds, with competitors taking it in turns to be evader and chaser. Again, there are only 20 seconds to catch your opponent.
In multiplayer, four competitors are involved in each match, which consists of four 40-second rounds. But in this format, each round starts with a different athlete on tag, and it is the competitor with the lowest accumulated tag-time who wins.
The main rules for Chase Tag are that tags can only be made with a hand, and dangerous play is prohibited. Should a competitor step outside the arena, they are considered "tagged," while tag-backs are not allowed in any of the formats other than team chase off. In the winner stays on format, no points are awarded for a tag, but competitors who evade being tagged are awarded one point. Inevitably, the last remaining athlete has the most points and wins.
Who better to ask than the two-time WCT champion Marrero Gang, made up of Jamie De Smet, Greg Ball, James Kirsop Maine, Connor O'Carroll and Kieren Owen?
Ball: “You’ve got to be versatile. The main thing is training yourself not to react how you would react normally, because that’s just fight or flight. You’ve got to take a step back and relax and think, 'What do I need to do to get myself out of this situation,' not just run. I’d say it’s more a mental game than physical.”
Maine: “You can’t just do chasing or evading, you’ve got to be good at both.”
Owen: “A good competitor is having tactics, knowing kour [parkour], having kour experience, being physically strong and physically fit.”
O’Carroll: “That stamina has got to be up there. Like cardio, focusing on your breath is one of the main things. It’s the same as any sport, you look at the best fighters in the world; if you keep yourself under control, keep breathing and getting that oxygen in, then your muscles have the power; without that, you just fall over.”
World domination, according to Christian and Damien: a global competition with the best teams and athletes from across the world. “We want to have an American qualifier, an Asian qualifier and a European qualifier, and then the winning teams will all qualify for the World Championships,” says Christian.


Diego Costa has hit out at Chelsea manager Antonio Conte and accused him of lacking “charisma” as the striker refuses to return to London, according to reports.
Costa,  Chelsea’s top scorer in the title-winning campaign last season, has been in Brazil throughout the summer after being told he was not needed by  Conte.
The  Italian coach was involved in an infamous text message exchange with Costa in which he reportedly told him he was not in his plans going forward.
In an interview with the  Daily Mail, Costa accused his manager of preventing him from signing a new contract at Stamford Bridge and claiming he is not close with any of his teammates.
“In January, things happened with the coach,” Costa told the  Daily Mail. “I was on the brink of renewing my contract, and they put the brakes on it. I suspect the manager was behind it. He asked for that to happen.
Related:   Chelsea Battles Manchester United For Final Summer Signing
“His ideas are very fixed and clear. I have seen the sort of person he is. He has his own opinion, and that will not change.
“I respect him as a great coach. He has done a good job and I can see that, but as a person, no. He is not a coach who is very close with his players. He is very distant. He doesn't possess charisma.”
The 28-year-old said he is still in contact with some of his teammates, such as David Luiz and Cesc Fàbregas, and said he admired his successor at Stamford Bridge.
Chelsea signed Álvaro Morata from Real Madrid in a deal worth around £70 million (about $91 million) earlier this summer, with the Spaniard replacing Costa as Conte’s top striker.
He scored on his debut on Saturday but couldn’t prevent Chelsea from losing the first game of the season 3-2 to Burnley.
Next Sunday, Chelsea faces Tottenham at Wembley with a weakened squad due to injuries and suspensions, after Cesc Fàbregas and Gary Cahill were sent off.


Romelu Lukaku accomplished what Manchester United paid £75 million for on Sunday as Jose Mourinho’s team opened its Premier League season with a 4-0 victory over West Ham United.
Lukaku scored twice, once in the first half with a sweet finish in off the post to set United on the way to three points, the second a glancing header on 52 minutes to double his side’s advantage.
Mourinho kept a straight face at full-time but the Machiavelli inside the Portuguese manager, barely suppressed even at his sunnier moments, will surely have been cackling.
This was the weekend when Chelsea’s apparent off-field dysfunction gained physical manifestation, in a calamitous 3-2 defeat to Burnley at Stamford Bridge. Chelsea had two players sent off, too, and a grim weekend was compounded Sunday evening when the Daily Mail published an interview with exiled striker Diego Costa in which the Spaniard laid several heavy boots into manager Antonio Conte.
Lukaku could have gone to Chelsea, Mourinho’s former club, this summer and probably would have done so had it not been for the influence of his close friend Paul Pogba. United snuck in as quickly and as quietly as you can with £75 million in a suitcase and Chelsea turned to another of Mourinho’s targets, the Spain and Real Madrid striker Alvaro Morata. The strange merry-go-round may yet benefit both clubs—Morata scored on Saturday—but Lukaku’s swagger suggests he was born to wear United’s shirt. Certainly, he did not appear cowed by the occasion and his partnership with Pogba could be a prolific one.
Behind Lukaku, a man recruited from Chelsea looks as though he could be just as important to whatever United achieves this season. Mourinho told the BBC following Sunday’s game that he had been surprised at Nemanja Matic’s availability for £40 million. Last week Conte described losing the Serbian midfielder as a “great loss” and Matic’s Premier League debut for United will not have changed his opinion.
Matic was a key figure in Lukaku’s first goal, winning the ball from Pedro Obiang midway through the United half and allowing Marcus Rashford to race forward to set up the Belgian. Matic dictated the pace of the game, playing the ball simply and quickly forwards. That enabled Paul Pogba freedom in a more advanced role to cause damage, as he did by sliding in United’s fourth goal on 90 minutes.
Mourinho and United will have plenty more difficult tasks than this one through the season—West Ham was a supine opponent. But with Chelsea already stumbling, this was something of a statement of intent. Lukaku and Matic have added pace, power, skill and control to United. Mourinho’s gain is his old club’s great loss.


Liverpool manager Jürgen Klopp will bid for Napoli forward Lorenzo Insigne if he needs to replace Philippe Coutinho, according to reports.
Liverpool’s most creative spark last season, Coutinho may be on his way out of Anfield this summer and heading for Catalonia.
The club's owners released a statement on Friday insisting that Coutinho would not be for sale after reports that  Barcelona was willing to pay £120 million ($156 million) for the 25-year-old. But hours later, Coutinho delivered a transfer request to  Liverpool.
Now, despite Klopp’s and his club’s resolve about holding onto their star player, they will have to consider a potential replacement should Coutinho end up leaving, and Insigne is a possibility.
According to the  Daily Mirror, Klopp has long been an admirer of 26-year-old Insigne, who plays in a similar position to Coutinho and scored 20 goals in Serie A last season. He is reported to be valued at around £60 million ($78m).
Related:   Liverpool Fends Off Coutinho Offer, Faces Offer For Another Star Midfielder
Like Liverpool, Napoli says Insigne is not for sale, with the club facing the start of the Italian season next weekend and a Champions League campaign. But should Liverpool give in to selling Coutinho, it would have enough financial might to prize Insigne from Napoli.
There is still the possibility that Liverpool will hold onto Coutinho, as he is not the only man lined up by Barcelona as a potential replacement for Neymar, sold to Paris Saint Germain for £198 million ($257 million) earlier this month.
Ousmane Dembélé, the Borussia Dortmund striker, is being considered and has also shown a strong interest in moving to the Nou Camp. Last week, Dembélé failed to turn up for training with Dortmund or get in contact with the club. Each team has until August 31, when the transfer window closes, to resolve the situation. 


LeBron James has often shown himself to be an athlete unready to bury his head in the sand when it comes to social justice.
James proved that again when he tweeted an apparent criticism of President Donald Trump’s actions and words regarding the events in Charlottesville, Virginia, after a white nationalist protest resulted in violence and the death of a woman.
“It's sad what's going on in Charlottesville. Is this the direction our country is heading? Make America Great Again huh?! He said that,” James wrote, referring to Trump’s 2016 electoral campaign slogan.

Trump has been widely criticized by both Republicans and Democrats for his failure to single out white nationalists for blame over the clashes that resulted in the death of Heather Heyer, an anti-fascist protester. Trump spoke of violence “on many sides” after white nationalist groups descended on Charlottesville for a “Unite the Right” march against the proposed removal of a statue of Confederate Army General Robert E. Lee.
Trump’s daughter and close adviser Ivanka went further than her father in her criticism, labeling the far-right protesters in Charlottesville as “white supremacists and neo-Nazis.” Mike Pence, the vice president, condemned the marchers in quotes reported by The Hill on Sunday evening but defended Trump’s response. “We have no tolerance for hate and violence, white supremacists or neo-Nazis or the KKK,” Pence said. “The president also made clear that behavior by others of different militant perspectives are also unacceptable in our political debate and discourse.”
James is not the only athlete to speak out over the events in Charlottesville. Chris Long, the Philadelphia Eagles defensive end, called the far-right protesters “man babies” in a tweet posted on Saturday. Long attended high school in Charlottesville and went to the University of Virginia.
“Obviously, people ask, ‘You’re from Charlottesville?’ [and] it kind of leaves a bad taste in their mouths thinking that one of their guys is from Charlottesville, where they see all these rallies and stuff happening,” Long’s brother and fellow NFL player Kyle said. “Like I said, don’t let a few bad apples ruin what is really true about Charlottesville and that area—there’s good folks there.”

In February, James, 32, was presented with the NAACP’s Jackie Robinson Sports Award for “high achievement in athletics and contributions in the pursuit of social justice, civil rights and community involvement.” The LeBron James Family Foundation, founded by the Cleveland Cavaliers small forward in 2004, works in his hometown of Akron, Ohio, to mentor inner-city children through school.


Premier League managers had the first chance to see how their new squads were working together this weekend, and where their weaknesses lie.
Manchester United set the early pace with a 4-0 win over West Ham, while Watford held Liverpool to a 3-3 draw at Vicarage Road and Burnley beat Chelsea 3-2 at Stamford Bridge, with Antonio Conte's side finishing the game with nine men. Chelsea's holes were plain to more than just managers.
But now the clubs have an opportunity to bring in some last-minute reinforcements in the next three weeks before the transfer window closes. Here,  Newsweek takes you through all the news and rumors swirling around the Premier League today:
Manchester United's pursuit of Inter Milan winger  Ivan Periš​ić has rumbled along throughout the summer without much success, and now José Mourinho has competition. According to the  Daily Mirror, Chelsea has shown an interest in the 28-year-old winger and will make a late move this August.
As part of a spending spree, Chelsea will also bid £50 million for Southampton center back  Virgil van Dijk, the  Daily Star reported, after the Dutchman released a statement last week saying he wanted to leave St Mary’s for a bigger club. Liverpool has always been the expected destination for van Dijk, but Antonio Conte hopes to pip his Premier League rival to the signing.
Related:   Arsene Wenger Says Arsenal’s Best Player Could Leave Emirates
After drawing 3-3 with Watford on Saturday, Jürgen Klopp said he will need to bring some new additions to his Liverpool squad before the transfer window closes on August 31, according to the  Liverpool Echo.  Van Dijk and RB Leipzig midfielder  Naby Keïta have both been at the top of Klopp’s wish list this summer, but he has had no success landing either.
Tottenham may make Lazio's Keita Baldé its first signing of the summer, stepping up its interest in the 22-year-old forward after he was left out of the Supercoppa Italiana squad this weekend, according to the  Daily Mirror. Mauricio Pochettino’s club is yet to spend anything in this transfer window.
Finally, Swansea manager Paul Clement has said he wants to see the transfer window closed before the Premier League season begins, as he continues to fight to hold onto  Gylfi Sigurðsson, a target for Everton, reported the  Daily Mail.


After two months off, the Premier League finally returned this weekend, after more than £1 billion was spent trying to improve its teams.
In the past week, however, many of the teams in England’s top tier have been preventing their best players from leaving, in addition to bolstering their squads.
Newsweek  guides you through the highlights of the week:   
Monday
After Chelsea lost the Community Shield to Arsenal, Antonio Conte was looking to add depth to the champion’s squad. The Italian’s team was rivaling Manchester United for Gareth Bale, who was believed to be available should Real Madrid land Kylian Mbappé. In Liverpool, Jurgen Klopp was giving up on his pursuit of Southampton defender Virgil van Dijk, while Barcelona was growing increasingly confident it would be able to sign Philippe Coutinho from Anfield for around £120 million, to be Neymar’s successor at the Nou Camp.
Tuesday
Twenty-four hours after Barcelona’s message of confidence over Coutinho, Klopp put his foot down, saying he would block any potential move. Liverpool had another boost when van Dijk released a statement saying he wanted a move away from Southampton, with Liverpool set to bid £60 million for the center-back. Chelsea and Manchester United were competing again, but this time for Serge Aurier, the Paris Saint-Germain right-back.
Wednesday
After losing the Super Cup final to Real Madrid, a game Gareth Bale featured in, José Mourinho admitted that signing the Welshman this summer was unlikely. But United had positive signs from PSG that Ivorian right-back Aurier would be available to sign. In west London, Antonio Conte was looking to sign another left-back, with Tottenham’s Danny Rose at the top of his wish list, while Inter Milan was considering a bid for Leicester City’s Riyad Mahrez.
Thursday
Chelsea was once again after an Arsenal player, swooping for English midfielder Alex Oxlade Chamberlain with a £35 million bid. But Conte’s team faced competition from United for Spurs left-back Danny Rose, while Mourinho was still keen on signing Inter Milan’s Ivan Perišić. Reports in France also suggested that Serge Aurier had agreed a five-year deal to join Manchester United. West Ham was willing to break its transfer record after bidding £25 million for Sporting Lisbon midfielder William Carvalho.
Friday
Liverpool looked to end speculation over Coutinho leaving Anfield by releasing a statement saying he would not be sold. Ousmane Dembélé, of Borussia Dortmund, looked most likely to be Neymar’s successor at Barcelona instead, after failing to turn up at the German club’s training session. In north London, Arsenal made a last-ditch attempt to keep Alexis Sanchez at the Emirates Stadium by offering him a £300,000-a-week contract, which would make him the highest paid player in the Premier League.


When the owners of Liverpool Football Club, Fenway Sports Group, issued a statement on Friday morning, a feeling of relief would have flown over Jurgen Klopp.
“We wish to offer clarity as regards our position on a possible transfer of  Philippe Coutinho,” it read. “The club’s definitive stance is that no offer for Philippe will be considered and he will remain a member of  Liverpool Football Club when the summer window closes.”
The statement followed Barcelona’s strong pursuit of the Brazilian midfielder this summer, willing to pay around £120 million (about $156 million) to take him to the Nou Camp. Having sold Neymar to Paris Saint-Germain for £198 million, Barcelona needs a successor;  Coutinho and Borussia Dortmund’s Ousmane Dembélé have been at the top of the list.
But  Liverpool’s strong stance will prevent it from being Coutinho, which will come as a relief to Klopp. Yet, after managing to fend off interest in one of his star players, reports in Italy now suggest the German faces a fight to keep hold of another of his midfielders.
According to  Gazetta dello Sport, Serie A champion Juventus is preparing an £23 million offer for Emre Can, the German midfielder who has become an integral part of Klopp’s team.
Related:   Liverpool’s Summer Finally Improves, Spurs Fears Exodus in Transfer News
With less than one year remaining on his contract at Anfield, Can will be free to talk to clubs in January about a move away from the Merseyside club.
Last month, however, Klopp insisted the club had “good talks” with the 23-year-old over the summer about a new contract.
“You can imagine we're involved in talks, and we all feel good and confident in this moment,” he told the  Liverpool Echo.
“That means they're not the worst talks, but until anything is done or signed there's nothing to say.
“Emre is a very important player for us. We don't want to sell or lose players who are in our first lineup or close to it.”
For now, Can will be part of Klopp’s Liverpool squad when it travels to Hertfordshire on Saturday to face Watford in the team’s opening game of the Premier League season.


Arsene Wenger has admitted that Arsenal is “not super optimistic” that it will be able to keep hold of star striker Alexis Sanchez beyond this season, according to reports.
Sanchez heads into the 2017-18 Premier League campaign with just one year remaining on his contract, meaning he will be free to talk with other clubs in January.
Arsenal has not given up on agreeing a new deal with Sanchez, but according to  SFR Sport, Wenger has said he is not confident that the 28-year-old will extend his contract.
The  Daily Mail says Arsenal is making one last-ditch attempt to keep Sanchez by making him the highest paid player in the Premier League. The deal would be worth £300,000 a week.
Wenger says that Sanchez will not feature in  Arsenal’s opening game of the season, against Leicester City on Friday night, and may miss the clash with Stoke City the following weekend. Sanchez, the Frenchman says, is suffering with an abdominal issue.
Related:   Arsenal faces fresh attempts to lure star striker
Manchester City and Chelsea are both reported to be keen on signing Sanchez, but Arsenal is not willing to sell to a Premier League rival. By January, however,  Arsenal will have no choice over his future.
German giant Bayern Munich is also reported to be interested in signing Sanchez, with Carlo Ancelotti keen to add the former Barcelona forward.
Arsenal, meanwhile, will begin the season without Sanchez, but new signing Alexandre Lacazette is set to make his Premier League debut. The Frenchman signed from Lyon for a club record £46 million (about $59 million).


The summer transfer window, as it always does, has left the Premier League’s biggest clubs in a precarious position.
As they try to recruit new players to strengthen the team, they also have to fend off any interest in their star players. There is always the potential of finishing the summer in a weaker position.
And that will have been the fear for  Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp, who has dipped into the transfer market but could also lose his star player. Arsenal is in a similar position.  Tottenham, too. And the biggest stories of the transfer round-up today address this issue of loss rather than gain.
Here,  Newsweek  guides you through all the new and rumors you need to know from Thursday’s transfer market:
After weeks of uncertainty at Anfield surrounding  Philippe Coutinho, Liverpool has had a major boost. The Brazilian midfielder was a target for Spanish giant Barcelona, supposed to be a successor to Neymar, sold to Paris Saint-Germain for a record £198 million earlier this month. Barca was willing to pay £120 million for Coutinho.
But the La Liga club is also interested in Borussia Dortmund’s  Ousman Dembele, who didn’t turn up to training on Thursday and looks likely to complete the move to Spain.  Spanish football expert Graham Hunter believes Barcelona would be unable to buy Coutinho as well as Dembele, which will ease Klopp and the Kop’s concerns greatly.
In north London, Spurs fears an exodus after  Danny Rose’s comments on Thursday. The English left-back, who has been linked with a move to Manchester United, said Tottenham was not paying him what he is worth. The  Daily Mirror says Daniel Levy is now battling a pay crisis while  The Sun says Rose received a “hero's welcome” from his teammates when he returned to training.
Related:   Manchester United ‘agrees five-year deal’ for top defender
Just down the road, at Arsenal, Arsene Wenger is making a last-ditch attempt to get Chilean striker  Alexis Sanchez to remain at the club, with his contract set to expire at the end of the season. Arsenal, the  Daily Mail reports, will make Sanchez the highest paid player in the Premier League to get him to stay, paying £300,000 a week.
West Ham is set to continue its ambitious spending this summer. After signing Joe Hart and Javier Hernandez, Slaven Bilic’s team has bid a club record £27.1 million for 25-year-old Sporting Lisbon midfielder  William Carvalho, according to the  Daily Telegraph.


Ivorian defender Serge Aurier has agreed to a five-year deal to join Manchester United from Paris Saint-Germain (PSG), according to reports.
Although  Jose Mourinho’s club is yet to agree on a fee with PSG,  Goal says Aurier has completed personal terms with  United and will be at Old Trafford stadium until 2022.
The 24-year-old will provide more options for  Mourinho at right-back, with Antonio Valencia currently filling the role and Matteo Darmian also an option.
There are, however, two issues for United to deal with before Aurier can complete the move. The first is a fee with PSG, and the second is ensuring he can get a visa to be eligible to enter and play in the United Kingdom.
Last November, Aurier was denied entry to England ahead of PSG’s Champions League clash with Arsenal, due to a  two-month suspended prison sentence he received in September for assaulting a police officer.
Related: Old Trafford favorite on verge of Manchester United return
Aurier has been playing at the Parc des Princes in Paris for two years, after signing from Toulouse in 2015, and he has won two Ligue 1 titles, three Coupes de la Ligue and three Coupes de France.
But the French giant brought former Barcelona defender Dani Alves to Paris this summer from Juventus, leaving Aurier down in the pecking order.
The signing would see  Mourinho’s quota of four signings completed, with Aurier following Victor Lindelof, Romelu Lukaku and Nemanja Matic to Old Trafford.
But the United manager has also said he wants to see a new winger signed, someone capable of cutting in to join the attack. Inter Milan’s Ivan Perisic has been the player most linked to a move to fill that hole.


Most reasonable folks with a modicum of boxing—or Mixed Martial Arts, for that matter—knowledge expect Conor McGregor to get soundly schooled by Floyd Mayweather, Jr, when the two meet in Las Vegas on August 26.
Most except, uh,  Conor McGregor, apparently.
On Tuesday morning, McGregor posted a seemingly ordinary training picture to his official Instagram account, showing the Irish UFC lightweight champion about to start hitting the heavy bag.
The eye is drawn up the wall, above McGregor’s head, to a painted mural of a green-gloved fist striking a boxer in the face.
In typical McGregor style, he’s already trash talking, albeit in an understated way .
Of course, it’s probably not just for show. McGregor is as meticulous in his preparation as he is flashy outside the gym and this way he gets to see Mayweather’s face every time he spars, skips rope or hammers that heavy bag.
There’s a nice level of detail to the picture, too. McGregor’s left hand is rearranging Mayweather’s face—perhaps the best chance the Crumlin man has of causing one of the biggest upsets in combat sports history at T-Mobile Arena later in the summer.

In another Instagram shot posted overnight giving a better view of the mural, McGregor called himself a “filthy Irish animal.”

The braggadocio has started early although trash talk and murals are unlikely to help McGregor if Mayweather begins to dance around him as is his style in the ring. To land the kind of shot that knocked out Jose Aldo—the kind depicted in the mural—McGregor is going to have to get close to Mayweather. Against a man of “Money’s” consummate boxing skills, that spells danger, quite possibly in the form of a K.O.
Still, at least there’s one person in the world who thinks this fantasy fight isn’t a foregone conclusion. Let’s see if visualization techniques can genuinely help McGregor pull off the greatest of all shocks.


Cristiano Ronaldo will not be leaving Real Madrid to join Manchester United or any other club, according to club president Florentino Perez.
Ronaldo, the four-time Ballon d’Or winner, reportedly wanted a transfer away from Real and out of the country after being accused by Spanish prosecutors last week of defrauding tax authorities of €14.8 million (about £12.9m/$16.5m).
But Perez, the newly reelected president at the Bernabeu, said he had not spoken to  Ronaldo since the Champions League final in Cardiff, Wales, last month, but insisted the Portuguese forward would not be leaving the club.
“Nobody at Real Madrid is contemplating that Cristiano will go,” Perez told Spanish radio station Onda Cero, as quoted in  The Times.
“He is a Real Madrid player and will remain so. I haven’t spoken to him. I have only heard what a newspaper has said. It is very strange. Life brings you unexpected situations, but you have to face them and find a solution. Cristiano is a good guy. I have a good relationship and a good friendship with Cristiano and I want to talk to him. When the Confederations Cup finishes [on July 2], we will deal with the issue.”
Jose Mourinho coached Ronaldo at Real Madrid from 2010 through 2013, and reports suggested the two could be reunited at  Manchester United this summer in what has been described as a “£183 million mega deal.”
Related:   Manchester United ‘Plots £183 Million Mega Deal’ to Sign Cristiano Ronaldo
Ronaldo has also been linked with a move to the wealthy French Ligue 1 club Paris Saint Germain, but Perez insisted that there had been no approaches from clubs.
“I have never told Cristiano to bring me an offer,” he added. “We are delighted with him as a person and as a player. If Cristiano wants to leave Madrid, it will not be for money. We have not received any offer for Cristiano, nor for [Álvaro] Morata [the striker wanted by United] or James [Rodríguez]. PSG’s owner [Nasser Al-Khelaifi] is a friend of mine. He hasn’t called me and I haven’t spoken to anyone.”
“I will always defend Cristiano as a footballer and as a person. He is a very good person. It has affected me how the news of Cristiano was treated in the media.
“The presumption of innocence was not respected. I am sure that Cristiano fulfils his fiscal duties. It must be a confusion that will be clarified. I am sure he would not want us to pay his fine if there was one. He is not like that.”


Kevin Durant is going to restructure his deal with the Golden State Warriors to take less money, according to reports.
That’s very bad news for anyone who thought the  Warriors might pose less of a threat in the new  NBA season.
According to  ESPN, Durant will voluntarily become an unrestricted free agent on July 1 before immediately re-signing with the Warriors. Durant was due a salary of $27,734,405 in 2017-18 according to  Spotrac but he will take around $4 million less than than the maximum available to him.
The reason? Durant may end up a little less rich but the Warriors should then have the capacity to re-sign Andre Iguodala, who hits the market as an unrestricted free agent this summer. The 28-year-old former Oklahoma City Thunder forward wants to win, repeatedly, in the Bay Area and it seems he is willing to delay a long-term deal in search of more championships.
Alongside negotiating Iguodala’s deal, the Warriors will also have to pay out this summer on a new contract for Stephen Curry expected to total more than $200 million across five years. After four years of making less than perhaps his performances deserve, the point guard will sign one of the NBA’s new Designated Player Veteran Contracts.
In theory, the Warriors’ core could have started to break up this summer. But Durant’s reported decision means the juggernaut will likely go on, at least until the subject of Klay Thompson’s contract extension comes up again next summer.
Somewhere in northeast Ohio, LeBron James is quietly banging his head against the wall. If James wants to win another championship with the Cavaliers, or even, as rumored, in the western conference with the Los Angeles Lakers, he will have to accomplish it against the same lineup that ended the Cavaliers’ championship hopes in 2017.


The city of Manchester dominates much of the news and rumors this morning as Jose Mourinho and Pep Guardiola look to improve their respective squads for next season.
In today’s round-up, the future of Cristiano Ronaldo, plus his potential terms for a reunion with Mourinho at Manchester United, takes a turn, while Guardiola’s Manchester City looks for  another  striker.
United is also on the hunt out for a new goalkeeper and midfielder, and reports today suggest the club isn’t looking very far to fill each department.
Liverpool’s ongoing chase for former Chelsea forward Mohamed Salah is included in the round-up, and it’s good news for Jurgen Klopp’s team. Here,  Newsweek  guides you through all the latest on Tuesday morning:
Mixed messages are found in today’s reports regarding  Ronaldo.  The Sun says the Portuguese forward will not hold United to ransom over his wage demands, but Mourinho isn’t even interested in signing the 32-year-old forward, according to the  Daily Star.
Mourinho is, however, interested in two players from rival teams. He will battle West Ham for the signing of Manchester City goalkeeper  Joe Hart, according to the  Daily Telegraph, and is looking to raid his former club Chelsea to bring midfielder  Nemanja Matic to Old Trafford,  The Sun says.
City may be keen to part company with Hart, having loaned him to Torino last season, but it is the attacking department that Guardiola continues to improve at the Etihad Stadium.  Sky Sports say that the Spanish coach is preparing a bid for Borussia Dortmund forward  Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang.
City and Liverpool are two of the teams believed to be in the race to sign  Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain from Arsenal, but now, according to the  Daily Mirror, Chelsea has also made the English midfielder a target this summer.
A player who could be on the way out of Stamford Bridge is 20-year-old midfielder  Izzy Brown, who spent last season on loan at Huddersfield and could be about to join the club permanently. The  Daily Mail say the newly promoted club will offer £8.5 million for the Chelsea player.
Barcelona is activating a £10.5 million buy-back clause for Spanish forward  Gerard Deulofeu that the club put into a deal with Everton, according to the  Daily Mail.
Swansea City is among the clubs looking to sign  John Terry after he left Chelsea at the end of last season. The 36-year-old defender is linked with a variety of English clubs, including Bournemouth, Birmingham and Aston Villa, but  The Mirror says Terry has now held talks with Swansea.


Tiger Woods said on Monday he is receiving "professional help" to manage his use of the medications he takes to relieve back pain and insomnia following his arrest for driving while intoxicated last month. 
Florida police found the 41-year-old asleep behind the wheel of his vehicle in the early hours of May 29. He tested negative for alcohol after his arrest and later released a statement saying he had experienced an unexpected reaction to prescription medicines.
"I'm currently receiving professional help to manage my medications and the ways that I deal with back pain and a sleep disorder," he posted on Twitter on Monday. 
"I want to thank everyone for their amazing outpouring of support and understanding especially the fans and players on tour." 
Woods is the winner of 14 major championships, second only to Jack Nicklaus, but has hardly played in the last 22 months after undergoing multiple back surgeries.


Among the reactions to UFC fighter Tim Hague’s death, perhaps the most sobering came from Anthony Johnson.
Hague died at age 34 on Sunday, having  reportedly fallen into a coma following a boxing match in  Edmonton, Canada, on Friday.
Hague, who fought five times in the UFC, was knocked down five times in the first two rounds by opponent Adam Braidwood, the  BBC reported.
The Canadian, who had also been an elementary school teacher, fought 34 times in Mixed Martial Arts and lost eight of those contests by knockout. He then began a boxing career in which he was knocked out in two of his four fights.
On Saturday, former UFC light heavyweight champion Johnson posted on Instagram, saying Hague’s death was a “reality check” for him.
“This is why I walked away. This is a reality check for me!” Johnson wrote. “I've knocked a lot of ppl out and idk how this didn't happen when I fought. I've been afraid of this happening to me and after learning about CTE I'm afraid of it happening to anybody.”

Johnson, 33, left the fight game on his own terms in April, following a submission defeat to Daniel Cormier at UFC 210.
Hague wasn’t so lucky.
Known as “The Thrashing Machine,” Hague was an imposing six foot four and 264 pounds, according to  Sherdog.com.
That website also shows Hague suffered, often, for his art. After opening his MMA career with ten wins from 11 contests, he lost 12 of his next 23 fights. Eight of those defeats came by technical knockout or by knockout.
Hague boxed professionally for the first time on December 9, 2011, according to  BoxRec, winning by knockout.
He fought three more times as a boxer, losing his last two bouts by technical knockout.
YouTube footage of Hague's fateful fight shows him knocked down four times before Braidwood knocks him out, his head appearing to smash into the ring surface as he falls.
His tragic death was confirmed in a statement issued by his family.
"It is with incredible sadness, sorrow and heartbreak to report that Tim has passed away," the  statement released Sunday said.
"He was surrounded by family, listening to his favourite songs," they added. "We will miss him so greatly. We ask for privacy during this difficult time."
Hague’s passing seems likely to lead to uncomfortable questions. Why was a man with a lengthy history of knockouts still allowed to fight? Should boxing’s stoppage rules come under review? Had Hague been fighting in MMA, the contest would likely have been over following the first knockdown. And why was a fight that Hague was clearly losing, badly, not halted when it became clear he could no longer defend himself?


Former Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard believes Jurgen Klopp needs just two or three signings this summer to win the Premier League title for the first time in the club’s history.
Liverpool finished fourth in the top tier of English football last season, 17 points off champion Chelsea and just one ahead of Arsenal.
But Gerrard, who now works as a coach in the club’s academy, believes  Klopp needs a few additions and a change of tactics against rigid opposition.
“I think we've got a fantastic manager at the helm, who will hopefully attract a few big names to complete the jigsaw," Gerrard told  BT Sport. "I think Liverpool are very, very close and if you look at the statistics of the top six from last season, they were the best team in terms of head-to-head.
“So Liverpool know where they need to improve and it's consistency against the teams in the bottom half of the table—the teams that sit narrow, compact and are difficult to break down.”
Virgil van Dijk looked likely to become  Liverpool’s first signing of the summer earlier this month, but the club ended its interest and apologized to Southampton.
Related:   Chelsea makes push for double signing while Liverpool offer fall short in today’s transfer round-up
Now, former Chelsea winger Mohamed Salah, currently at Roma, is reported to be Klopp’s top target. But Roma is believed to want more than the £35 million  Liverpool is said to have offered.
Gerrard thinks one of the first priorities is in defense. “I think we need someone in the left-back position. James has done a fantastic job out there, but it would be nice to have another option out there as well,” he said.
“And maybe one more attacking player to give some more firepower and help unlock the defenses that are really narrow and compact. I don't think we need major reconstruction, I think it's just a couple of pieces of the jigsaw left and I'm really happy with where we are at the moment.”


The night before he battered his ball for the fourth and final day around the wide fairways of Erin Hills, Brooks Koepka took a phone call from Dustin Johnson.
“Dustin actually called me on Saturday night and told me to take one shot at a time, just to stay patient,”  Koepka  said. “It was a case of ‘just keep doing what you’re doing, you’re going to win the thing. Just don’t get ahead of yourself’.
“It was a long phone call for us; it was like two minutes. But he just said a few things, about just staying patient. And that I’ll win if I stay patient and just keep doing what I’m doing.”
It must have worked. Koepka stayed patient and calm and outlasted the field, including a charging Hideki Matsuyama and Rickie Fowler, who fell away to finish tied for fifth in another major disappointment.
Down the field and out of view, Johnson had the quietest of tournaments for a man usually surrounded by noise of the good and bad variety. The 32-year-old ended the weekend in Wisconsin tied for 92nd.
There was drama as Koepka produced a final round of 67 to hold off Brian Harman, the 30-year-old Georgian, albeit of the purists’ variety. Harman’s previous best finish in a major was tied for 26th at the British Open in 2014. Besides the enigmatic Fowler and Matsuyama, the top ten was made up from a collection of American journeymen and those with more promise than fame, in Justin Thomas and Xander Schauffele.
They would never admit as much, but one wonders whether the good members of the United States Golf Association might have secretly wished for Johnson, and not the impressively unflappable Koepka, to be on the end of the pep talk on Saturday evening.
Koepka’s path is unusual enough that he may be more familiar to a European golf public than his countrymen. Born in West Palm Beach, he attended Florida State University before making his way through the Challenge Tour and then the European Tour.
There may be more majors to come for Koepka—as there may for Danny Willett, who shot an 81 then withdrew before the start of the second round with back pain.
They are two of the past seven major winners. Each of those tournaments have been won by a different man, dating back to Jason Day’s victory at the PGA Championship at Quail Hollow in 2015.
There is an argument that a level, almost random playing field increases excitement in a tournament. It also, indisputably, makes rivalries difficult to form and sustain.
There was no chance for a final-day shootout on Sunday between Rory McIlroy and Jordan Spieth. The American finished strongly but McIlroy had long since missed the halfway cut, before getting drawn into an unseemly  Twitter spat with Steve Elkington.
In the post Tiger Woods-void there were possibilities for a group of elite players to establish hegemony. It seems the opposite has happened, which creates a headache for anyone attempting to sell a golfer as Woods was sold for so many years before scandal and injury put buffers on his career. The best thing for Koepka, of course, would be to go on a run of victories in majors. Perhaps it would be best for the game of golf, too.


When Brooks Koepka won his first career major at the U.S. Open at Erin Hills on Sunday, he was greeted by his delighted team.
Among them was his girlfriend Jena Sims, an American actress, who embraced Koepka as he walked off the 18th green after shooting 16-under-par for the tournament, tying a  U.S. Open record.
For Fox Sports viewers, though, there was some confusion. Commentator Joe Buck incorrectly identified Koepka’s girlfriend as professional soccer player Becky Edwards. To make things even more awkward, Koepka had dated Edwards but the two broke up earlier this year.
Co-commentator Brad Faxon was on hand to correct Buck. Take a look:

The relationship between Koepka and Sims was fairly unknown before the major championship in Wisconsin. Then she posted this:

And this:



Shortly after John McEnroe approached Donald Trump’s box at the 2015 U.S. Open, the president only a Republican candidate at the time, the former tennis star ended up leaving very confused.
He’d known Trump “a little over the years.” In 2000, Trump offered $1 million to see McEnroe play either Serena or Venus Williams but none of the players had shown an interest. He had called McEnroe his “dear friend.” “[That was] news to me,” McEnroe told  The Sunday Times.
McEnroe’s father, however, was a fan of Trump. “In fact, my dad—also called John—had written to Trump at the start of his campaign for the Republican nomination, asking if there was anything he could do to help,” McEnroe recalled.
And it was this letter that caused the confusion when McEnroe approached Trump’s box at quarterfinal of the tournament between the Williams sisters at the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center.
“Donald has a box at the U.S. Open, right next to the broadcasters’ booth. At the 2015 tournament I went over to say hello, against the advice of my wife and daughter: ‘Don’t you dare go over there. He’s a misogynist and a blowhard—it could hurt your reputation.’ Sure enough, it was caught on TV, me hugging Donald like we were long-lost brothers.
“He did seem more pleased to see me than usual, and I only realised why when he said, ‘John, thank you so much for the letter. I’ve got it on the wall in my office!’ I hoped this was fake news. I didn’t want everyone who went into Trump’s office thinking I was his No. 1 fan.”
Before the election, McEnroe revealed he would be voting for Hillary Clinton but described the two presidential nominees as “not the best you could have.”


This is hardly the first time that Ronaldo has reportedly been unhappy at Real Madrid. Every time, it seems, his former club Manchester United is mentioned as a possible retirement home.
This time, though, could it actually happen that  Ronaldo returns to the team he left in 2009?  Sky Sports News claimed on Monday morning that the  Portuguese player was “interested” in a return to United.
Would that even be a good idea? It’s certainly a tempting one for United but there are plenty of reasons why it doesn’t make sense...
Ronaldo is 32 and while his dedication to diet and training means he probably has longer left at the top than most of his contemporaries, there are no guarantees when a footballer reaches his mid-30s.
Can United risk tying Ronaldo down to a long-term deal, only for him to suffer a serious injury at some point in that contract? You could say the same for almost any signing but younger players have a chance to recover and still reach their peak. Ronaldo is cresting his—he’s been round about it for years, a mark of his greatness—but the only way from here is down. Does United really want to be saddled with an ailing great?
Cristiano Ronaldo of Portugal in Kazan, Russia, June 18. Ronaldo, the Real Madrid forward, has been linked with a return to Manchester United.   Francois Nel/Getty
Which is, or would be, ridiculous even for modern transfer fees. Talk of a £132 million fee is one thing—that would obviously be a world record—but Ronaldo’s wages are a reported £365,000 at Real and he’s unlikely to accept much less at Old Trafford. The fans may see it as a nostalgic move and there may be a touch of that for Ronaldo but for club and player, this would be a commercial proposition. United can expect to make a lot of money out of a Ronaldo return just in shirt sales.
But that’s still an awful lot of money going out on someone the wrong side of 30. Real may spend a similar amount on one transfer this summer, on A.S. Monaco’s Kylian Mbappe. Mbappe, though, is 18 and has his whole career ahead of him. United could risk looking like it is desperately harking for the past. It would be an expensive slice of nostalgia.
Transfers don’t take place within a vacuum. If Real was forced to sell Ronaldo then that would almost certainly change its strategy for the summer.
For instance, United has reportedly been close to sealing a deal for Real striker Alvaro Morata for weeks. But what happens if Real loses Ronaldo and with him 40 guaranteed goals in all competitions? United may find it suddenly unwilling to sell any more players. And what, then, for the prospect of David De Gea to the Spanish capital?
Of course there are caveats here. If United buys Ronaldo it may no longer want—or be able to afford—Morata. If Real sells Ronaldo then it may just free up more funds for Mbappe. Still, there are obvious complications here that could affect United’s transfer business even past this summer window.
There’s nothing wrong with big egos in a squad but too many can risk upsetting a carefully-crafted balance. Last summer’s world-record purchase of Paul Pogba suggested Mourinho wanted to build a team around the France midfielder. Pogba is also a dominant presence and character within the dressing room. Would adding Ronaldo to the mix cause United’s team spirit more harm than good? The danger is that Mourinho ends up with a situation like at Real, where player power and factions grow more powerful than the manager. It’s why “super teams” invariably work better on FIFA than in real life.
Few United supporters begrudged Ronaldo his then world-record move to Real in the summer of 2009, given what he achieved under Sir Alex Ferguson.
Ronaldo’s United legacy remains almost pristine. What, exactly, could he do to improve upon it? He’s won a Champions League with United, he has Premier Leagues, League and F.A. Cups.
Perhaps there is the desire on his part to prove he can still dominate the Premier League into his 30s. With that desire—hubris even—comes the danger that Ronaldo’s performances could head south in his second spell at Old Trafford. He might then be remembered, at least in part, as a broken-down, aging relic, rather than the raging thoroughbred he once was. And that would be a shame.




When you’re the offspring of LeBron James, you can expect a better-than-average birthday party.
Bryce Maximus James, the youngest son of the  Cleveland Cavaliers  small forward, turned 10 on June 14.
On Sunday, James put up a video on Instagram showing the kind of wild time you can have when you’re the son of the world’s best basketball player.
A James birthday party apparently involves mini American football games, basketball, of course, and ice-throwing competitions.
James even got in some training, dunking over a group of kids half his height, if that.
As reports and rumors swirl over James’ future in Cleveland past the summer of 2018, it looks at least like he’s putting any thoughts of the new NBA season and stopping the Golden State Warriors’ juggernaut off for now.



Whether it was a dive or a push, there was certainly an Oscar in there somewhere.
Former Chelsea midfielder Oscar, who moved to Shanghai SIPG in January, was involved in an incident Sunday that sparked a mass on-pitch brawl.
The Brazilian was at the heart of a feisty game with Guangzhou R&F in the Chinese Super League that ended 1-1.
But the game could have been abandoned when Oscar went down over a challenge that saw most of the 22 players on the pitch, as well as coaches and substitutes get involved in a mass melee.
Oscar moved to SIPG, coached by former Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas, for £40 million and has been one of the standout players for the Super League team.
SIPG is second in the table, four points behind leader Guangzhou Evergrande.
Watch the fracas here:



Reports that Cristiano Ronaldo wants to leave Spain this summer shocked the football world and sparked speculation of where the Real Madrid striker will move.
The destination could be Manchester United, Real Madrid, China or even the United States. But there is plenty more going on in the transfer market today, or plenty more rumors and whispers, anyway.
Chelsea is looking to wrap up its first deals of the summer after potentially falling behind title rivals, while a Liverpool offer has fallen short putting the deal in danger of falling apart.
Here,  Newsweek takes you through all the deals you need to know about this Monday morning:
First, to the Premier League champion. Chelsea is yet to sign a player this summer, but the  Guardian reports this morning that Antonio Conte’s club will look to wrap up two deals this week. Juventus left-back  Alex Sandro and Monaco central midfielder  Tiemoue Bakayoko are the two players Conte wants to bring to Stamford Bridge.
A former Chelsea player has been on the radar for Liverpool since the Premier League season ended.  Mohamed Salah, of Roma, is the target of a £35 million offer from Jurgen Klopp’s club, according to  Sky Sports, but the offer does not meet the Italian team’s asking price and Liverpool will not increase the fee.
Should United lose Spanish goalkeeper  David de Gea to Real Madrid this summer, Jose Mourinho has lined up a replacement. According to  Calciomercato  via  Metro, Mourinho wants 18-year-old Italian goalkeeper  Gianluigi Donnarumma from AC Milan.
Former Premier League champion Leicester City is considering an offer for West Brom center back  Jonny Evans, according to the  Daily Telegraph.
Bournemouth’s  Joshua King has been linked with a move to Premier League runner-up Tottenham Hotspur and the 25-year-old striker has said he is flattered by the news, according to the  Bournemouth Echo.
At Arsenal, speculation has grown over the future of English center back  Calum Chambers after the defender dodged a question over his future at the Emirates Stadium, according to the  London Evening Standard.


Following are five key moments that helped Pakistan win the Champions Trophy for the first time with a crushing 180-run victory over holders India at The Oval in London on Sunday.
Pakistan captain Sarfraz Ahmed loses toss: 
India have done well chasing down targets so captain Virat Kohli opted to put his rivals in to bat first. 
It proved to be a good toss to lose as Sarfraz said he would also have elected to field if he had won it. 
"We wanted to bowl first. But the toss is out of our control. Hopefully, we can post more than 300," Sarfraz said.
Pakistan opener Fakhar Zaman is caught by Mahendra Singh Dhoni for three—off a no ball: 
With his bat tucked under his arm, Fakhar begins the long walk back to the pavilion as the Indians celebrate grabbing their first wicket with only four Pakistan runs on the board.
The celebrations swiftly change direction, however, when replays on the big scoreboard show that Jasprit Bumrah had bowled a no ball and Fakhar is called back to the crease. 
It proved to be a costly no ball as Fakhar goes on to score his first international century before falling for 114.
Kohli fails to capitalise on a dropped catch on five:
The Indian captain had come into the match with an astonishing batting average of 253 runs in this year's tournament, having been dismissed only once in four matches.
So when he was dropped by Azhar Ali in the slips off Mohammad Amir in the third over, huge cheers erupted around the arena. Pakistan made sure it did not turn out to be a costly mistake, though, as Amir dismissed him with the next ball. 
His departure proved to be a bad omen for the Indians as the only other time he had been dismissed in this year's Champions Trophy—against Sri Lanka in the group stage—the holders also lost the match. 
Amir back in the team after missing semi-final with back injury: 
Amir, once vilified for his role in the 2010 Pakistan spot-fixing scandal which led to him serving a prison term in the U.K., was at his brilliant best when he produced a devastating opening spell. 
He removed India's top three batsmen—Rohit Sharma (0), Shikhar Dhawan (21) and Kohli (5). 
After leaving India reeling on six for two following the dismissals of Sharma and Kohli, Amir's figures read 1.4 overs, four runs, two wickets. 
His transformation into a hero was complete as his final tally was six overs, two maidens, 16 runs and three wickets.
Hardik Pandya, India's last hope, run out for 76 after showering the ground with sixes:
Pandya came to the crease with India teetering on 54 for five after Yuvraj Singh and former captain Dhoni departed in quick succession. 
He raised hopes of pulling off a one-man Indian Houdini act as he hit three successive sixes to reach his half century. But just when it seemed that he was blazing towards a first international century, he was run out after a mix-up with Ravindra Jadeja.
India still had three wickets in hand but the deafening cheers from the Pakistan fans made clear that the end was nigh.
India lost their last four wickets for the addition of only six runs. 


Manchester United is preparing for one of the biggest deals in world football that would see Cristiano Ronaldo return to Old Trafford, according to reports.
Ronaldo, the four-time Ballon d’Or winner, reportedly wants to leave Spain this summer and United is among the clubs that he could move to, along with Paris Saint Germain.
According to the  Daily Mail, Italy’s  Tuttosport  reports that Jose Mourinho’s club will offer £183 million (about $234 million) for the 32-year-old Portuguese forward that would include other exchanges.
United’s original summer target Alvaro Morata would also be a part of the deal. Mourinho wanted a striker to replace Zlatan Ibrahimovic at Old Trafford, and Morata reportedly topped that list.
Real reportedly wanted £70 million for Morata but United will now look to put the 24-year-old Spaniard into a deal with Ronaldo.
The offer would also include David de Gea, the United goalkeeper formerly of Atletico Madrid. Real has been targeting the Spaniard as a replacement for Keylor Navas at the Bernabeu this summer.
The deal appeared to have disappeared but United is now looking to use De Gea as a bargaining chip to get both Ronaldo and Morata to Old Trafford.
Manchester United has already secured the signing of center back Victor Lindelof this summer and has a number of other transfer targets.
Inter Milan’s Ivan Perisic is high among that list, with spending at United looking certain to climb above £200 million (about $255 million).


It is unlikely to get much mainstream exposure in the United States, but that doesn’t mean there won’t be plenty of people across the 50 states tuning into what is likely to be one of the most-watched, if not the most-watched, global sporting events of 2017. Renewing a sporting rivalry that puts almost all others in the shade, India will take on its neighbor Pakistan Sunday in the final of cricket’s ICC Champions Trophy, a scaled-down, elites-only version of the World Cup.
Related: India vs. Pakistan: While You Watch U.S. Open Final Round, A Billion Will Tune Into Champions Trophy Final
To get a scale of just how big the occasion is, when the two teams met in the 2015 World Cup, in what was just a preliminary game, an estimated worldwide audience of one billion people tuned in. This time a trophy will be on the line.
But the sporting prize is just a part of what will make the occasion such a spectacle and so intense.
India and Pakistan rarely compete at cricket, the game which dominates both the sporting and cultural landscape in both countries. That has been the scenario since heated political tensions between the two were dramatically exacerbated by the Mumbai attacks in 2008. The attacks were carried out and orchestrated by Pakistanis, who India accused the Pakistan state of supporting and later shielding.
Cricketing relations were soon cut and ever since the two teams have met only sporadically, almost exclusively when they are compelled to face off in major tournaments.
In recent months, relations have taken a further downward turn as a result of frequent clashes over the Line of Control in the contested region of Kashmir. During that time, Pakistani actors have been banned from Bollywood, while Indian films were forbidden from being shown in Pakistan. Cricket is now one of the few vehicles that bring people of the two countries together, albeit there will be little togetherness on show in the heart of the battle in Sunday’s final at London’s Oval cricket ground.
While the vast majority of those tuning in will be among the huge populations in India and Pakistan, not completely insignificant number are also likely to be watching from the United States. There are, after all, more than three million Indian-Americans in the U.S. and several hundred thousand Pakistani-Americans.
The sport’s governing body has made a recent push to try to grow the game in the U.S. In 2015, a group of retired legends played three matches across the country, in New York City, Houston and Los Angeles, with each game drawing over 20,000 fans. And when India and Pakistan met in last year's World Cup for the shortened 20-over version of the game, the average audience in the U.S. was a non-too-shabby 1.4 million.
While far from every American household will be able to tune into the biggest cricketing occasion of 2017 on Sunday, the game, which is scheduled to start at 5.30 a.m. EDT, it will be shown on the subscription TV channel Willow, also available to live stream via Sling.


When India played Pakistan in the Cricket World Cup of 2015, a worldwide audience estimated at one billion tuned in.
That was just for a group game.
On Sunday the two countries will meet at The Oval in London, England, in the final of the  ICC Champions Trophy, a pared-down version of the  Cricket World Cup involving just the world’s top eight teams.
Pakistan, mixing inconsistency with occasional luminous brilliance under new captain and wicketkeeper Sarfaraz Ahmed, struggled to even qualify for a tournament that began doused in rain and will finish on the hottest weekend of the year so far. Then, the side ranked seventh in the world beat top-ranked South Africa at Edgbaston, Birmingham, and ignited a sodden competition. Pakistan advanced to the semifinals, where a powerful England team should have ended its run. Instead, a sublime bowling performance and a calm chase with the bat saw off the host country.
India, perennially excellent especially in limited-overs cricket, and in the biggest tournaments, suffered a shock defeat to Sri Lanka in the group stages before pummelling another neighbor, Bangladesh, in the semifinal.
Pakistan supporters show their colours during the ICC Champions Trophy match between India and Pakistan at Edgbaston, England, June 4. Meetings between the two countries in international cricket are rare.   Michael Steele/Getty
The teams have already met once in the competition. At Edgbaston on June 4, an India team powered by captain and preeminent superstar Virat Kohli posted 319 for three, a total Pakistan could not begin to approach.
The suspicion is that Pakistan’s batting, frail even in the good times, will let down the tournament’s most talented bowling attack. India’s big-game nous should see it through to a second successive Champions Trophy victory.
But then, when India and Pakistan meet it’s risky to take anything as read. Partly, that is because they meet so seldom. The game at Edgbaston was the first since February 15, 2015, that World Cup group game. Between the World Cup semifinal in 2011 in Mohali and Saturday’s final, there have been just eight 50-over games featuring the sides. Pakistani players have not participated in the 20-over Indian Premier League since 2008, in the aftermath of the Mumbai bus attack India  claimed was planned from inside Pakistan by militants from that country.
The separation creates a feverish desire, and the febrile political atmosphere adds to the mixture. “As far as the Indians and Pakistanis go, I don’t think they watch this game as a game of cricket. It’s more of a border rivalry,” the India offspinner Ravichandran Ashwin  said before the countries met in the 2016 World Twenty20 in India. “They want to get one up on each other. There’s much more rather than this game taking center stage. As far as people are concerned, they put their emotions into the game.”
Before this tournament began, there were  clashes along the Line of Control between Indian and Pakistani Kashmir. The 2016 World T20 fixture was moved from Dharamsala, in India’s far north, to Kolkata in the east as Pakistan sought security assurances. None of these games can ever be divorced from a context far wider than sport.
That won’t be necessary, of course, in a tournament held in England. The atmosphere this time around seems more akin to a party than a proxy war. In Birmingham two weeks ago, both sets of fans danced during the rain breaks. Edgbaston, situated in a city where 19.5 of the residents are Indian or Pakistani, wants to host a series between the two on  neutral ground.
It’s all half a world or more away from the U.S. Open, that other great sporting event of the weekend. The closest golf in the 21st century gets to politics is Rory McIlroy playing a round with President Donald Trump.
That isn’t to say that Erin Hills won’t provide its own brand of visceral excitement. It’s just that, potentially, more than a tenth of the world’s population will have its eyes turned elsewhere.


There may still be eight weeks until the Premier League season starts, but English football’s biggest clubs are already busy trying to spend their millions.
After finishing outside the top four last season,  Arsene Wenger is busily trying to prevent his best players from leaving Arsenal while attempting to strengthen his squad with new additions.
Jose Mourinho has said he’s staying out of  Manchester United’s transfer business this summer. Yeah, sure he is. United has already wrapped up one signing and has been, apparently, chasing plenty more over the past week.
Here,  Newsweek  takes you through all the news, rumors and whispers circling the Premier League over the last five days.
Monday
Last weekend,  Manchester United confirmed the signing of Swedish center back Victor Lindelof from Benfica in a deal believed to be worth £30.7 million. On Monday, Jose Mourinho’s team was already looking to bolster his squad further, linked to  A.S. Monaco central midfielder Fabinho.  Chelsea, meanwhile, was yet to add to its squad after winning the Premier League but Antonio Conte was reported to want  Real Madrid’s James Rodriguez as a replacement for Cesc Fabregas. Much excitement about who was signing who was swirling around on Monday, but the only confirmation was 25-year-old Jon Nolan making the switch from  Chesterfield, which was relegated to League Two, to  Shrewsbury Town in League One.
Tuesday
Mourinho was back in the gossip columns on Tuesday, after a different midfielder. Mourinho was looking to weaken his former club  Chelsea  by attempting to sign Nemanja Matic, the giant central midfielder, as well as Blues target Tiemoue Bakayoko who currently plays for A.S. Monaco. United’s interest in Antoine Griezmann was brought to an end, while  Real Madrid’s  Alvaro Morata became the club’s main attacking target of the summer. Wenger, meanwhile, found out he would have to pay £60 million to sign the prolific Lyon forward Alexandre Lacazette, who has scored 91 goals in the last three seasons.
Wednesday
Lacazette remained on Wenger’s wishlist at  Arsenal , but on Wednesday he was joined by Kylian Mbappe and Thomas Lemar, both of  A.S. Monaco. Across London,  Chelsea  was looking to pounce on Willy Caballero, the Argentine goalkeeper released by  Manchester City at the end of last season, while Mourinho was also beginning the Old Trafford clearout. Chris Smalling was reported to be on his way out of  Manchester United while a change on the club website suggested Wayne Rooney’s exit was imminent.  Liverpool’s  long pursuit of former Chelsea winger Mohamed Salah seemed to take a positive turn when the Egyptian told  Roma  he wanted to leave the club and move to Anfield.
Thursday
From Morata becoming a clear  United  target on Tuesday, by Thursday there were suggestions that he could sign from  Real Madrid by next week.  Everton  had been named among the clubs that could sign Chris Smalling, along with  West Brom  and  West Ham. Gareth Bale’s turbulent season in Madrid brought speculation over whether the Welshman could push for a move away from the Bernabeu this summer, but Bale reportedly didn’t want to leave despite  United’s  interest. Alexis Sanchez’s future was again up in the air Thursday, with  Arsenal  desperate not to sell to a Premier League rival, such as  Manchester City  or  Chelsea. But the Premier League’s biggest spenders of the day—and week, it turned out—was  Everton as the club announced the £30 million signing of  Sunderland  goalkeeper Jordan Pickford and Davy Klaassen from  Ajax  for £23.6 million.  Leicester City  also had confirmation of a signing as Harry Maguire joined from  Hull City  after impressing during the last campaign.
Friday
Chelsea  was said to be back in the hunt for  Napoli  center back Kalidou Koulibaly, with the Italian club believed to have rejected a £53 million offer from the Premier League champion.  United  was after a new target, with Friday bringing news that Mourinho wanted Ivan Perisic from  Inter Milan, and he wanted him before the club went on its U.S. tour in July. The most staggering news of the week came on Friday afternoon when Cristiano Ronaldo’s future at  Real Madrid was thrown into doubt when multiple publications reported that the Ballon d’Or winner wanted to leave Spain. But to go where? Maybe we’ll be able to tell you next week.


Cristiano Ronaldo will seek to leave Real Madrid next month, according to a shock report.
Ronaldo, 32, has been at Real for eight years, during which time he has won the Ballon d’Or award for world’s best player four times.
But  A Bola in Portugal claims the star forward wants to exit Spain following the 2017 Confederations Cup with his national team, which takes place this June and July in Russia.
Ronaldo is facing a potentially fraught summer as Spanish prosecutors decide whether to pursue charges against him over allegations of tax fraud dating back as far as 2011. The player is apparently “disgusted” by the investigation.
Even as he enters the final phase of his career, there are only a select few teams Ronaldo could depart for.  A Bola reckons Paris Saint-Germain would be interested, and—deep breath—Manchester United would also like to take him back to Old Trafford.
Ronaldo is a very different player from the man who left United for a then world-record fee in the summer of 2009, but his powers of reinvention mean he is now perhaps even more threatening in front of goal.
Bringing him back to the place where he made his name would certainly be one of the most popular moves United manager Jose Mourinho could make. Ronaldo only signed a new five-year contract in November 2016, but if he were to become available, it’s difficult to imagine United not inquiring, if only politely, after his services.


The Golden State Warriors will resume their rivalry with the Cleveland Cavaliers when the new NBA season begins on October 20.
In the meantime, it appears LeBron James and Draymond Green are going to do their best to keep the pot bubbling.
Green, the Warriors’ starting power forward, trolled James on Thursday during the franchise’s championship parade by sporting a “Quickie” T-Shirt in reference to Quicken Loans Arena, the Cavaliers’ home.
James fired back on  Instagram, reposting the picture of Green and writing, “That’s what she said, HUH?!?!?"

But Green wasn’t done. Later at the championship parade he took to the stage and mocked James for his post-Finals claim that he “didn’t believe” in superteams and had never played for one.
“And can somebody give Bob [Myers, Golden State Warriors general manager] some f****** credit?” Green said. “They wanna talk about superteams this, superteam that. 'I never played on a superteam.' You started the superteam, bro. I ain't join a superteam. Hey Slim [Kevin Durant], I don't know what you just did Slim but you did something to them boys."
He then made fun of James’s new bald haircut, screen-shotting a clip from James’ video and posting it to his own Instagram. “Them dubs finally made him go bald!!! Congrats bro @kingjames.”

All in jest, maybe. But do Green and the Warriors really want to poke an already fired-up James?


The pressure on Arsene Wenger this summer is possibly greater than it’s ever been. After Arsenal failed to qualify for next season’s Champions League, Wenger has to retain the club’s best players this summer while recruiting others to propel the team up the table.
Alexis Sanchez could be heading for the Emirates exit. The Chilean forward was  Arsenal’s top scorer last season and is one of the best players in the team, but  Sanchez grew frustrated by Arsenal falling short of its  Premier League rivals. Mesut Ozil, also in the last year of his contract, could be set to leave Arsenal this summer, but  Wenger has at least had some good news.
Hector Bellerin, the 22-year-old right back, has developed into one of the club’s most exciting players, having joined from Barcelona’s academy in 2011, aged 16. Now, however, the Catalan club wants him back. A valuation of around £40 million (about $51 million) has been put on Bellerin but, according to a teammate, the Spaniard will remain at  Arsenal.
“He’s an Arsenal player and almost certainly he will stay here,” Nacho Monreal told Spanish newspaper  Mundo Deportivo , as quoted by the  Daily Mail. “Hector is a very important player for us and the boss has already reiterated that he counts on him.”
Monreal, the Arsenal left-back and Bellerin’s teammate with the Spanish national team, added: “Now they will have to negotiate between the clubs and we will see what happens but almost for sure he will continue with us.”
Wenger, meanwhile, is in the pursuit of players this summer to bolster his squad, with three fellow Frenchmen as his main target. According to  The Daily Telegraph, Monaco duo Thomas Lemar and Kylian Mbappe are on Wenger’s wishlist, as well as Lyon striker Alexandre Lacazette.
Lacazette is the kind of player Wenger has needed at the Emirates in recent years, having scored 91 goals in his last three seasons. But such scoring prowess is going to see Arsenal need to pay around £60 million for the 26-year-old.
If the club can convince Mbappe to join, he is also going to demand a big transfer fee, possibly even a world record. The 18-year-old was the star of Monaco’s Champions League campaign last season, taking the club to the semifinals of the competition. Arsenal faces competition for his signature, including Spanish giant Real Madrid.


Manchester United will have to pay £48 million if Jose Mourinho is to land Ivan Perisic from Inter Milan, according to a report published Friday.
Perisic, 28, has emerged as one of Mourinho’s principal transfer targets as he looks to add skill and pace to United’s counterattack.
But Inter has no need to sell, and  ESPN claims it is holding out for a huge transfer fee for the Croatia international. That could present a problem as United is reportedly only willing to pay £35 million, although Mourinho will surely be backed with the extra cash should Inter refuse to budge from its current asking price.
Arsenal’s pursuit of Kylian Mbappe, meanwhile — always a longshot — appears destined to end in failure after Real Madrid closed in on the prodigiously talented A.S. Monaco teenager.
Mbappe, 18, struck 26 goals last season as Monaco won Ligue 1 and reached the Champions League semifinals.
Those feats have caught the eye of Mbappe’s fellow Frenchman Zinedine Zidane, Real’s manager. Monaco and Real have held preliminary talks according to  Goal.com but with the French champion unwilling to sell Mbappe, his price could rise as far as a world-record £118 million.
Chelsea has been slow to match its rivals in the transfer market so far this summer, leading to reports of disagreements between Antonio Conte and the club’s board.
However, that could soon change as  The Telegraph claims Premier League champion Chelsea is all in for Kalidou Koulibaly, the Napoli center back.
Napoli has rejected a £53 million offer from Chelsea for the 25-year-old defender, though there remains plenty of time left to close a deal this summer.


A role-reversal seems to have taken place at Old Trafford this summer.
After  Manchester United secured the Europa League final on May 24, the team’s 64th game of a gruelling season that saw it win three trophies, coach  Jose Mourinho delivered a message to the club’s board.
He had done his job.  Mourinho had won silverware as well as returning Manchester United back to European football’s top table, the Champions League. Now, over the summer months, it was their turn to deliver with the signings Mourinho wanted.
“Ed Woodward [the United chairman] has my list, what I want, what I would like for more than two months,” he said, as quoted by the  BBC. “So now it’s up to him and the owners. But I don’t care about football for now.”
Mourinho went on to say that he was now “on holiday.” He said he was “fed up” and “tired of football” and that he wouldn’t be involved in transfer negotiations. It was a clear message that, if United didn’t get the players he wanted, the blame fell solely on the board, and, ultimately, Woodward.
The United chairman has had a positive start to the summer months. Before the transfer window even opened, United had announced the arrival of  Benfica center back Victor Lindelof for £30.7 million (about $39 million) to strengthen Mourinho’s back line. Goalkeeper David de Gea looks likely to stay at Old Trafford instead of signing with Real Madrid. And United is now chasing the services of striker Alvaro Morata, from Real, as a replacement for the released Zlatan Ibrahimovic. But Mourinho wants more.
According to the  Daily Mail, United will sign Inter Milan winger Ivan Perisic for £44 million (about $56 million), with the deal set to be confirmed within weeks. Although we are still only in the middle of June, the new season two months away, Mourinho wants the deal complete as soon as possible.
Mourinho, the report says, wants Perisic in a United shirt and ready to be part of the squad for its pre-season tour of America next month. The team will play five matches while in the States, including games against LA Galaxy, Manchester City, Real Madrid and Barcelona, traveling from California to Utah and Texas.
United’s first match, against the Galaxy at StubHub Center in California, is on July 15. Woodward now knows his deadline for keeping his employee, Mourinho, happy.


Some may say Erin Hills is a gamble from the United States Golf Association (USGA). On a mammoth 7,693-yard course, an incredibly heavy rough—sorry, fescue—lines a wide open fairway without any trees in sight, and known for its unpredictable gusts of wind. For some, the Wisconsin course looks more like the venue of a British Open rather than the 117th U.S. Open major championship.
In fact, Jon Rahm, the Spaniard who is ranked 10th in the  golfing world, described it as playing “like a links course on steroids.” He added, as quoted by  the BBC, “I think it’s [the] U.S. Open, they expect our best.”
And that’s exactly what the USGA will hope to see: the world’s best golfers, playing at their maximum on a course that is challenging but beatable. (Workers at Erin Hills cut the fescue back on holes four, 12, 14 and 18 this week after wet weather made it unplayable, organizers said.) The  U.S. Open needs to be entertaining this year, remembered for the entertainment on the course rather than the debacle off it.
Last year, in Oakmont, Pennsylvania, the world no.1 and favorite for this year Dustin Johnson held the shimmering trophy aloft on the 18th green as the new champion. Sure, the weekend had been good, Johnson shooting an impressive 69 to finish five under par, but it was the image of blazered officials approaching Johnson on the 12th tee that made the 2016 U.S. Open memorable.
Seven holes earlier, on the 5th green, Johnson’s ball moved slightly as he was about to make a putt. He was told there would be no penalty, but then, on the 12th, he was now told this could change.
Related:   Everything you need to know about the 2017 U.S. Open at Erin Hills
Officials at Oakmont were criticized for the uncertainty hanging over Johnson. Rory McIlroy wrote on Twitter: “No penalty whatsoever for DJ. Let the guy play without this crap in his head. Amateur hour by the USGA.” Regardless of how well Johnson played, the 2016 U.S. Open will forever be remembered for the controversy.
The year before that, in 2015, the Sunday at Chambers Bay in Washington saw  Jordan Spieth crowned champion. Spieth had shot five under par, winning the tournament at the age of 21, but his win was down to Johnson’s collapse. He three-putted on the final hole to lose by one shot, an anti-climatic end to the weekend that saw players complaining about the quality of the course.
You would have to go back to 2008, almost a decade ago, for the last classic at the U.S. Open. The 19-hole play-off between  Tiger Woods and Rocco Mediate at Torrey Pines will remain in the highlights packages for years to come, especially being Woods’ last major win.
So this year is big. Big for  Erin Hills as it looks to make a mark on the golfing world, and even bigger for the U.S. Open. It can’t afford another year of mediocrity.


So it’s actually, properly happening, in real life. Floyd Mayweather, Jr, versus Conor McGregor is no dream.
McGregor, UFC’s first dual-weight world champion, and undefeated boxer  Mayweather will meet in Las Vegas on August 26 for a boxing superfight that not so long ago appeared a fantastical idea at best.
There are plenty of reasons to be cynical about a bout that appears, at least on the surface, to be about money first, ego second, and sport a distant third.
But there are also reasons to be excited, even if the action itself seems an interminably long way away right now. Here are some of the factors to look out for.
Should Mayweather dance around McGregor and outpoint him by a wide margin—which seems the most likely result right now—Mixed Martial Arts is going to look pretty bad to a huge number of casual viewers on the world’s biggest stage.
That perception will be highly unfair, of course. McGregor would surely take Mayweather within a round or two were this a UFC venture. What said casual viewer will see, however, is the world’s most famous Mixed Martial Artist appearing technically inferior to the world’s most renowned professional boxer.
On the other hand… should McGregor land the sweet overhead left that has done for so many of his opponents in UFC, it’s boxing that looks terrible. Bear in mind that no boxer has knocked Mayweather down since Carlos Hernandez did it in 2001. McGregor’s movement will be unique among fighters Mayweather has faced and beaten but it would still be a shock, and a boon for MMA, if he stopped the American.
While the actual purse is the subject of a confidentiality clause, we do have UFC president Dana White’s words from April to fall back on. “If the fight sells as well as I think it can, Floyd makes a little north of $100 [million] and Conor makes $75 [million],” White told  The Herd podcast.
As ever with a Mayweather fight, at least in the second half of his career, there is a lurid fascination with the vast sums of money that the fight will undoubtedly gross.  Forbes predicts this could become the highest-grossing boxing match of all time, with both Mayweather and McGregor earning over $100 million for their efforts.
That’s music to the ears of Mayweather—whose nickname is “Money,” after all. And whether McGregor makes $75 million or $100 million or even more, this stands to be the biggest payday of his career by a distance.
It’s not just the fighters that have a lot riding on this fight. UFC president Dana White tweeted a smile on Monday evening to signal his delight at the deal being done, and there is no doubt that White stands to benefit from another significant move from MMA, and UFC, into the mainstream.
Equally, and aptly for a fight being held in “Sin City,” White has taken a gamble. McGregor—the undisputed face of UFC since Ronda Rousey lost her unbeatable aura—has not fought in UFC since he stopped Eddie Alvarez for the lightweight belt in November 2016.
White will make sure that the UFC name is prominent in the run-up to August 26 but by the time the dust has settled, it will have been almost ten months since McGregor last stepped into the Octagon. White says McGregor will turn around and fight again in UFC before the end of the year but that’s still a hefty period of inactivity for the face of a promotion.
Mayweather has perfected the art of luring people into parting with cash in the hope of seeing him get pummeled.
It’s a strategy that works, principally, because Mayweather is so good at selling an obnoxious personality. Without his ability to talk himself up, often in the third person, his supreme defensive skills would be admired by purists instead of infuriating those casual pay-per-view buyers who tune in to see him receive a comeuppance that never seems to arrive.
McGregor has something of Mayweather’s extraordinary brashness, though he’s an offensive fighter where Mayweather is the master at slipping punches for 12 rounds. We have already seen a little of what to expect from the build-up to the fight, when McGregor tweeted a picture of Floyd Mayweather Sr, Mayweather’s uncle, none too subtly suggesting that his 40-year-old opponent is over the hill.
The noise is only going to get louder over the next two months. Neither Mayweather or McGregor will ever approach the poetry of the great Muhammad Ali but in modern combat sports their voices carry the furthest of anyone. We’re about to find out what happens once they start shouting at each other.


Manchester United is nearing a deal for Inter Milan winger Ivan Perisic, according to a report.
Inter had reportedly been demanding £50 million for the Croatia attacker with  United unwilling to meet that price.
But the  Manchester Evening News claims Perisic’s advisers are now confident he will move to Old Trafford this summer, with the opportunity of playing Champions League football next season a major factor in his decision.
Left wing, where Perisic plays, is a key area of need for Mourinho as he seeks to turn United into a credible challenger for the Premier League. The Portuguese stationed Anthony Martial out there last season, but would prefer a natural left-footer to provide balance especially when United counterattacks.
Like rival Manchester City, United appears to be conducting much of its most important transfer business early in the summer, before prices can become inflated by increasingly desperate clubs. On Wednesday evening it was confirmed that the club had completed the signing of Victor Lindelof, the Benfica defender, for £31 million.
In addition to Lindelof and Perisic, Mourinho ideally needs a defensive midfielder to free up the attacking talents of Paul Pogba, and a striker. United is understood to be in talks with Real Madrid over a deal for Alvaro Morata but as with Perisic, the two parties have yet to agree upon a fee.


No decision has been made yet over whether the NBA Finals champion Golden State Warriors will visit President Donald Trump at the White House, a team statement reads. But Steph Curry knows what he wants to say.
Curry starred in the series, combining with Kevin Durant to score 41 points in Game 5 on Monday, and beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 4-1 for the Warriors second championship in three years.
Usually, the NBA champions are invited to the White House to meet the president, an event that tends to take place at some point during the following season. But speculation has centered whether  the Warriors would refuse a meeting with Trump.
Coach Steve Kerr called Trump a “blowhard” and said he “couldn’t be more ill-suited to be president.” A decision has not yet been announced, but  Curry has made his feelings clear.
“Somebody asked me about (going to the White House) a couple of months ago, like a hypothetical, if the championship were to happen would I do it and I think I answered 'I wouldn't go'. I still feel like that today,” he said, as quoted by  USA Today. "But, obviously as a team, we're going to have a conversation.
“This is a moment we all need to enjoy together and nothing should distract what we were able to accomplish together. The different kind of ceremonies and traditions that have happened around championship winning teams, we don't want that to taint what we've accomplished this year.
“So we'll handle that accordingly and responsibly and do the right thing for us individually and as a group.”
Curry and the Warriors did visit the White House the last time they won the championship, in 2015, but that was to visit the former president, Barack Obama.


For the third year in a row, LeBron James powered the Cleveland Cavaliers to the NBA Finals.
For the second time in two, the  Cavaliers fell short against a  Golden State Warriors team fast establishing itself as among one of the best of all time. That may be enough to get James moving again.
James’ legacy as a Hall of Famer is surely already secure but aged 32 his window on a fourth Championship may be closing. The Cavaliers can expect to win the Eastern Conference again next season, even with an improving Boston Celtics team, but Golden State will likely still present too high a hurdle in the Finals.
One solution? James, whose contract with the Cavaliers expires in 2018, could move out west according to Adrian Wojnarowski, host of basketball talk show  The Vertical Podcast with Woj.
“Not only is there no guarantee he’s coming back, I’m not sure there’s an expectation he’s re-signing there [with the Cavaliers],” Wojnarowski said. “I think they feel, I think within Cleveland and around the league, they feel that he’s very much in play to leave again and likely head out West to one of the two L.A. teams. The Lakers could very well be a target.”
Wojnarowski added that the Miami Heat, with whom James won his first two NBA Championships, could also be a possibility.
Of course, by moving out west James would encounter Golden State before the Finals. But the Lakers, who seem likely to pick UCLA point guard Lonzo Ball second overall in the upcoming draft, would offer intriguing possibilities and allow James to pursue his interests outside of basketball in the city.
Another option among many—James stays with the Cavaliers who sign a superstar to play alongside him and Kyrie Irving, dragging Cleveland closer to Golden State in the offseason. Whatever happens, as always with James, it will be must-watch.


Another day, another batch of transfer news and rumors.
Manchester United is, of course, set to spend big this summer and has already announced the signing of Victor Lindelof for £31 million. In today’s transfer roundup, United could announced its second incoming next week.
Elsewhere, Manchester City is having a clearout during the offseason in order to bring in some more players, while Arsenal tries desperately to hold onto Alexis Sanchez.
Here,  Newsweek  takes you through all the whispers going around the Premier League on Thursday morning:
Manchester United could announce the signing of  Alvaro Morata as early as next week, according to the  Daily Mirror, as the the 24-year-old makes a £65 million move to Old Trafford.
But it seems United defender  Chris Smalling is heading for the exit at Old Trafford, with Everton, West Brom and West Ham keen on the English center back, according to  The Daily Telegraph.
West Ham is also chasing another English target. The club is looking to pounce on the news that Manchester City does not want to keep  Joe Hart this summer, so the Hammers will look to take him on a season-long loan, the  London Evening Standard says.
Plans from City for a big-spending summer will require a clearout. Hart is a likely departure and the  Manchester Evening News says  Kelechi Iheanacho could also be sold, valued at £25 million.
City is one of the clubs keen on taking  Alexis Sanchez from Arsenal this summer, along with Premier League champion Chelsea, as the Chile forward heads into the final year of his contract. But according to  The Independent, Arsenal will resist selling to its rivals.  
Manchester United has also shown interest in Real Madrid forward  Gareth Bale but the Welshman, who moved to the Bernabeu in 2013, does not want to leave the club, the  Daily Mail says.
The  Daily Mail is also reporting that Arsenal target  Kylian Mbappe, the 18-year-old sensation at Monaco, will have to “sort” through his offers this summer, as Arsene Wenger’s club is not the only suitor. Mbappe said this week that Real Madrid had been trying to sign him since he was 14 years old.


The Golden State Warriors found themselves at the center of both the political and basketball universe in the days since they captured their second NBA title in three years. Unconfirmed reports stated the team had unanimously decided not to visit President Donald Trump’s White House, a perceived protest and admonition of the Republican and a tradition that’s seen all of the country’s four major sports’ champions enjoy the West Wing.
Owner Joe Lacob said the team had yet to be invited at all, and that it would decide in the future to attend if asked.
The hot-button controversy seemed to be over, until the comments made by Warriors forward Andre Iguodala to USA Today before Golden State clinched the title Monday in Game 5 of the NBA Finals.
The 33-year-old swingman, known as a ferocious defender and dunker as well as being socially conscious, suggested it’s possible Trump may not even be in the White House by the time the team potentially heads to Washington D.C. and that a scheduling conflict could eventually lead to the country’s buzzy aspersion, “fake news.”
“Maybe (Trump) doesn’t (invite us) and we don’t go, or we don’t say anything and make a big deal of it, and he doesn’t make a big deal of it and we go our separate ways,” Iguodala said, though the report noted he’s also known to be sarcastic.
“Y’all might write about it. I might call him and say, ‘If they ask, just say our schedules conflicted.’ And then if y’all write something, we’ll say, ‘Fake News,’” Iguodala said.
He also added that the team will go with whatever decision leader and two-time league MVP Stephen Curry makes. Though he also said “hell nah” when asked about his taking part in the visit.
“We’re going to do what our leader (Curry) does,” Iguodala said. “I think we handle (the White House situation) when it gets there. I mean, it may be different. There might be somebody different in (office). That’s a realistic thing to say though, right? So you don’t know what’s going to happen.”
Iguodala also said he believed that Trump has made the racial divide in the country worse since he was sworn in.
“We all know (that it is getting worse),” he said. “I think it’s just the ignorance, the convenient ignorance. (It’s) not to say that people aren’t aware, but they just don’t want to address it (because) they don’t want to be attached to it so they ignore a lot of the bad things that happen. I feel like there are actions that occur, that continue the dividing of everyone. And I think that’s done on purpose.”
The issue has been a bed of controversy for the Warriors this season, though not necessarily from Iguodala. Golden State head coach Steve Kerr often blasted Trump and his policies, saying last month that Trump is a “blowhard” who was “ill-suited” for office.
And in February, Curry took umbrage with the chief executive of one of his sponsors, who claimed Trump was a “real asset” to the country.
Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank made the comment to which Curry shot back later: "I agree with that description," Curry said, "if you remove the 'et'" from asset. ”
Some members of the Super Bowl-champion New England Patriots refused their White House visit and ceremony earlier this year. 


Arsenal’s attempts to sign Lyon striker Alexandre Lacazette this summer have been hit by the Lyon club’s preference to sell to a French rival, according to reports.
Lacazette, who scored 36 goals in 44 games last season, is believed to be high on  Arsene Wenger’s list of transfer targets this summer.  The Daily Telegraph says Wenger is also keen on Kylian Mbappe from Monaco and his teammate Thomas Lemar.
But Lyon would prefer not to sell the 23-year-old forward to  Arsenal, or any other club in England, the club’s president Jean-Michel Aulas told France Football, as quoted by the  Daily Mail.
In a bizarre move, Aulas suggested Lyon would be happy to sell Lacazette to the likes of Paris Saint Germain or another club in Ligue 1, as he urged owners to invest in French football.
“I know Nasser suggested to Noel Le Graet [president of the French Football Federation] that he is not investing that much in French players, because he thought other presidents of French clubs looked badly upon it,” Aulas said.
Related: Mourinho begins clearout, and Wenger targets French stars in today’s transfer roundup
“I want him to know that if he makes an offer for Alexandre at least equal to that of the other clubs bidding for him, then Alex can go to Paris without problem.
“I am a businessman and a modern club president. Transfer money must be reinvested into French football, as I always did when we were at the peak of our powers.”
Aulas added, “When transfer money is shared abroad, it strengthens our competitors instead.”
Wenger will also do well to bring Mbappe, the 18-year-old starlet who took Monaco to the Champions League semifinal last season, to the Emirates Stadium this summer.
Wenger faces competition from Spanish giant Real Madrid, which is reportedly willing to pay a world-record sum for the talented forward.
There is hope for Wenger, however, as Didier Deschamps, the France national team coach, has warned players not to move to a club where they will not play regularly, a concern for Mbappe should he move to Real Madrid’s Bernabéu.


After spending the day with Emmanuel Macron, British Prime Minister Theresa May joined the French president at the Stade de France on Wednesday night.
The stadium in Paris hosted a friendly football match between the two leaders’ countries following qualifiers for the  2018 World Cup in Russia.
May sat alongside  Macron for the game, watching England take the lead through Harry Kane but, in the end, coming out on the wrong end of a 3-2 scoreline to a youthful, but incredibly talented French team coached by Didier Deschamps. England lost despite France going down to 10 men when Raphael Varane was sent off two minutes into the second half.
May has also seen her team lose men recently, after her Conservative party lost a majority in the British parliament following the country’s general election on June 8. But May, who remains Prime Minister, was happy enough to get involved in a Mexican wave during the game.
Take a look here:

Twitter reacted to the footage as Twitter usually does:






On Wednesday, football fans were able to get their first look at the Premier League fixtures for the 2017-18 season.
Here,  Newsweek  takes you through the dates of the biggest derbies and games, as well as the key matches for your club:
Five Biggest Derbies:
1. Manchester United vs Manchester City—December 9, 3pm  
2. Arsenal vs Tottenham Hotspur—November 18, 3pm  
3. Liverpool vs Everton—December 9, 3pm  
4. Southampton vs Bournemouth—December 2, 3pm  
5. Huddersfield vs…Well, anyone really—Various
Five Top Clashes:
1. Chelsea vs Manchester United—November 4, 3pm
Jose Mourinho returns to his former club, the home of the Premier League champion, a title he is aiming to capture for the fourth time. Antonio Conte and Mourinho clashed in this fixture last year.
2. Liverpool vs Manchester City—September 9, 3pm  
Jurgen Klopp and Pep Guardiola, the two revolutionary tacticians in the Premier League, go head-to-head in what is always expected to be a goal fest.
3. Arsenal vs Manchester United—December 2, 3pm
Any match involving Mourinho and Arsene Wenger is likely to be feisty, hyped up and, hopefully, entertaining. These are two teams desperately looking to return to the Premier League summit.
4. Manchester City vs Tottenham—December 16, 3pm
Mauricio Pochettino’s Spurs derailed Guardiola’s perfect start in the Premier League last season. Pochettino’s club has been, statistically, the best team over the past two seasons but trophyless.
5. Arsenal vs Manchester City/Chelsea—or whichever club Alexis Sanchez joins, anyway.
Sanchez looks set to be on his way out of the Emirates Stadium, and if he joins a Premier League title rival, his return to north London will be a tense affair.
Important fixtures for your club:
Arsenal- Tottenham—February 10, 3pm- Chelsea—January 1, 3pm
Bournemouth- Southampton—December 2, 3pm- Brighton and Hove Albion—September 16, 3pm
Brighton and Hove Albion- Crystal Palace—April 15, 3pm- Manchester United—November 25, 3pm
Burnley- Watford—April 7, 3pm- Swansea City—November 18, 3pm
Chelsea- Tottenham—August 19, 3pm- Manchester City—September 30, 3pm
Crystal Palace- Brighton and Hove Albion—November 28, 7.45pm- Watford—December 12, 8pm
Everton- Southampton—November 25, 3pm- Tottenham—September 9, 3pm
Huddersfield Town- Brighton and Hove Albion—December 9, 3pm- Manchester United—February 3, 3pm
Leicester City- Tottenham—November 28, 7.45pm- West Ham—May 5, 3pm
Liverpool- Chelsea—May 5, 3pm- Manchester United—March 10, 3pm
Manchester City- Chelsea—September 30, 3pm- Manchester United—December 9, 3pm
Manchester United- Liverpool—October 14, 3pm- Manchester City—April 7, 3pm
Newcastle United- Liverpool—March 3, 3pm- Brighton and Hove Albion—December 30, 3pm
Southampton- Bournemouth—December 2, 3pm- Liverpool—February 10, 3pm
Stoke City- Arsenal—August 19, 3pm  - West Brom—August 26, 3pm
Swansea City- Watford—December 30, 3pm  -  Burnley—February 10, 3pm
Tottenham Hotspur- Chelsea—March 31, 3pm- Arsenal—November 18, 3pm
Watford- Arsenal—October 14, 3pm- Huddersfield—December 16, 3pm
West Brom- Leicester City—October 14, 3pm- Arsenal—December 30, 3pm
West Ham- Tottenham—December 30, 3pm  ​- Chelsea—December 9, 3pm
*All kick-off times are UK


As Manchester United prepares for another summer of spending in the summer, Jose Mourinho’s team has to make room for its new additions.
In today’s round-up, we look at who is likely to be heading out the exit door at  Old Trafford, while  Arsene Wenger makes three France internationals his priority to sign at  Arsenal.
Chelsea is also in the news as it swoops on a Manchester City outcast, while clubs are fighting for the services of a former Blues players. Here,  Newsweek  guides you through all the news and rumors:
Chris Smalling will be one of those players heading out of Manchester United, according to  The   Daily Telegraph, with West Ham, West Brom and Everton believed to be keen on signing the defender.
A change on the club’s Facebook page has also suggested the future of  Wayne Rooney has been decided, the  Manchester Evening News has reported.  Rooney had, originally, been featured alongside Jesse Lingard, Paul Pogba and Ander Herrera on the club’s banner but the 31-year-old has been removed, with a departure from Old Trafford expected.
Arsenal boss Wenger has shortlisted three France internationals for the summer transfer window, according to  The Daily Telegraph. These include 18-year-old  Kylian Mbappe, also a target for Real Madrid, his Monaco teammate  Thomas Lemar and Lyon’s prolific striker  Alexandre Lacazette.
But there are also fears at the Emirates Stadium that  Alexis Sanchez will not sign a contract extension with one year left on his deal. According to the  Manchester Evening News, Manchester City believes it will be able to sign the Chile forward for £50 million if he refuses to extend his stay at Arsenal.
Across London, at Stamford Bridge, Chelsea has pounced on City’s decision to release goalkeeper  Willy Caballero .  ESPN say the 35-year-old Argentine will become backup to Thibaut Courtois.
Former Chelsea captain  John Terry’s future is still uncertain. Aston Villa was reported to be keen on signing the 36-year-old center back, but has now been joined by Midlands rivals in chasing his signature. According to  The Times, Birmingham City is in the race for Terry and  Sky Sports say West Brom has begun talks with the former England captain as well.
Liverpool target  Mohamed Salah has told Roma that he wants to leave the Italian club and move to Anfield this summer, according to Sky Italia, as reported by  Liverpool Echo. Salah, a 24-year-old Egyptian winger, spent two years at Chelsea but made just 13 appearances.
A former Anfield favorite,  Pepe Reina, could be on his way back to the Premier League. Newly promoted Newcastle wants to sign the 34-year-old goalkeeper currently playing at Napoli, according to the  Newcastle Chronicle.


Human Rights Watch (HRW) said Wednesday it had documented cases where workers building venues for Russia's 2018 soccer World Cup had been left unpaid, made to work in dangerously cold conditions, or suffered reprisals for raising concerns.
Soccer's world governing body, FIFA, announced a monitoring system in 2016 for labor conditions at Russia's World Cup stadiums, and says the system has helped improve labor standards.
But in a statement accompanying the New York-based campaign group's report, Jane Buchanan, HRW's associate Europe and Central Asia director, said:
"Construction workers on World Cup stadiums face exploitation and abuse, and FIFA has not yet shown that it can effectively monitor, prevent, and remedy these issues."
FIFA said that "while incompliances with relevant labor standards continue to be found—something to be expected in a project of this scale—the overall message of exploitation on the construction sites portrayed by HRW does not correspond with FIFA's assessment."
A spokesperson said this assessment was based on quarterly inspections conducted by independent experts and trade union representatives.
FIFA also said that it was Russian authorities who "ultimately have the responsibility to protect human and labor rights on their territory and ensure that construction companies are held accountable".
Russia is set to host the World Cup next summer in 12 stadiums spread across 11 cities, including Moscow, St Petersburg, Kazan and Sochi.
These four cities are set to host matches in the Confederations Cup, a two-week tournament kicking off Saturday that will feature world champions Germany, the various regional champions and the host country.
Russia's World Cup organizing committee was not available for immediate comment. In May, Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Mutko told TASS news agency that construction works at the stadium in St Petersburg were in compliance with FIFA requirements and that workers' rights were not being violated.


Rory McIlroy turned from excited to flabbergasted on Tuesday after the world No. 2 was told that U.S. Open officials had decided to mow down some areas of the tall fescue that frames the fairways at Erin Hills.
Four-times major winner McIlroy, one of the game's best drivers of the golf ball, had just spoken with reporters about how eager he was to attack the long, links-styled, rolling farmland course off the tee.
However, he was left incredulous when informed that some of the fescue lining the generous fairways was being mowed.
"Really? We have 60 yards from left line to right line," an exasperated McIlroy said. "You've got 156 of the best players in the world here. If you can't hit it within that avenue, you might as well pack your bags and go home.
"These are the widest fairways we've ever played in a U.S. Open. Even the first and second cut (of rough) is another 10 yards on top of that."
Some players in the field for the year's second major that gets underway on Thursday had grumbled about how hard it was to advance the ball out of the fescue that stood almost knee high.
Early on Tuesday morning, U.S. Golf Association officials told a small group of reporters that areas of fescue would be mowed because the tall, thin grass was laying down due to the heavy rains that hit the area on Monday night and into Tuesday.
"I get that it's thick and whatever, but it's a hazard," McIlroy said. "It's a U.S. Open, it's supposed to be a tough test. And if guys can't put it into play within a 50-yard zone, I don't think they've got much to complain about."
McIlroy, who has played sporadically this year due to a rib injury, said he believed the 7,741-yard Erin Hills course suited him.
"I don't feel like it's a secret that I feel like my driver is one of the biggest weapons in my bag," said the 2011 U.S. Open winner at Congressional.
"I wasn't crying when I saw that rain last night and this morning. It's a long golf course and it's only going to play longer. That benefits a few guys, and luckily I'm one of them."


LeBron James has sparked speculation over his future—particularly whether he will remain with the Cleveland Cavaliers—after the team lost the NBA Finals Monday night.
Golden State Warriors secured  the title by winning Game 5 129-120 at Oracle Arena to take the series 4-1, the team’s second in three years.
Despite being on the losing side,  James was one of the stars of the Finals, scoring 41 points in Monday’s game. But he refused to confirm whether he would remain with the Cavaliers.
Asked about his future in the league, he said, as quoted by  The Guardian: “For me personally, I don’t know. I need to sit down and figure this thing out. And so I don’t know as far as me personally right now.”
“For me personally, I left everything on the floor every game, all five games. So for me personally I have no reason to put my head down. I have no reason to look back at what I could have done or what I shouldn’t have done or what I could have done better for the team.”
Related:   Watch the LeBron James play that sums up the 2017 NBA Finals Series
That was backed up by the numbers.  James became the first player in NBA history to average a triple double in the NBA Finals after scoring 41 points with 13 rebounds and eight assists on Monday. He ended the series averaging 33.6 points, 12 rebounds and 10 assists.
Having joined the Cavaliers from the Miami Heat in 2014, there is a suggestion that he could be on the move again, with the Los Angeles Lakers one of  the rumored destinations.
Wherever he ends up, James is sure the Warriors will be back to defend the championship title.  
“They’re going to be around for a while,” he added. “Pretty much all their guys are in their 20s. Pretty much all their big-name guys are in their 20s, and they don’t show any signs of slowing down. So there’s going to be a lot of teams that’s trying to figure out ways to...match that if they’re able to actually face them in the playoffs.”


Updated | The Golden State Warriors said Tuesday they have not decided whether they will go to the White House following their NBA Finals victory. "Today is all about celebrating our championship," the team said in a statement. "We have not received an invitation to the White House, but will make those decisions when and if necessary."
Reports surfaced early Tuesday morning that the team had "unanimously" decided to forgo a visit to the White House, a tradition for the NBA championship-winning team. "I can't believe we're getting this question already," owner Joe Lacob said Tuesday. "But honestly, that's something we'll worry about at the time. That's a long time from now."
After the New England Patriots won the Super Bowl earlier this year, six players ended up announcing they would not be visiting the White House to celebrate the win with the president. Even President Donald Trump's favorite athlete, Tom Brady, dropped out at the last minute, which pretty clearly hurt the president's feelings.

Shortly after the Warriors won Monday night, sportswriter Richard Deitsch tweeted that "there is zero chance this @warriors team is going to the White House." Attached to the tweet was a quote from Warriors forward David West, who in January spoke out against Trump.
Related: The dueling politics of the NFL and NBA
"All the tactics he used to get elected are the very things that someone like me, who works with youth on a consistent basis, are the things we try to talk our young folks out of being," he said. "We try to talk our young people out of being bullies. We try to talk our young men out of disrespecting women. We try to talk our young people into being accepting of other people's opinions and other people's walks of life."
West isn't the only member of the Warriors to speak up. Stephen Curry, the team's clean-cut superstar, voiced his opinion on the president after Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank called Trump "a real asset" to the nation. Curry is the brand's marquee endorser, but he doesn't quite agree with its CEO. "I agree with that description," Curry said of Plank's comments, "if you remove the 'et' from asset."
In February, guard Shaun Livingston said he "definitely wouldn't go" to the White House if the team were to win the championship. "I really feel that my views would keep me from going and visiting," he continued. "Just with everything that's going on right now. I just don't agree with a lot of stuff that's happening."
Livingston also said that the decision to visit the White House would ultimately rest in the hands of head coach Steve Kerr. "At the end of the day, it would be his decision, and I think we would talk about it as a team, as we usually do. We would come together, and it would be a panel of us, and we would really sit down and talk about it," he said. "Everybody would give their own opinion and have their own side, and I think he would leave that up to each individual."
As the NBA season has coincided with Trump's election and first few months in the White House, the league has emerged as staunchly anti-Trump. The prevailing sentiment seems to be one of opposition, and two NBA figures have led the charge, San Antonio Spurs coach Gregg Popovich and Kerr. Both have been refreshingly outspoken in their views on the president, delivering rant after rant when asked by reporters about Trump's latest news-making decision.
"I have no idea what kind of president he’ll be because he hasn’t said anything about what he’s going to do," Kerr said after the election. "We don’t know. But it’s tough when you want there to be some respect and dignity and there hasn’t been any. And then you walk into a room with your daughter and your wife, who have basically been insulted by his comments, and they’re distraught. Then you walk in and see the faces of your players, most of them who have been insulted directly as minorities, it's very shocking. It really is."
After Trump announced his travel ban plan, Kerr spoke about his father's killing by gunmen in Beirut (Islamic Jihad, a precursor of Hezbollah, claimed responsibility) but said he disagreed with the president. "If we're trying to combat terrorism by banishing people from coming to the country, we're really going against the spirit of what our country is about, and [we're] creating fear. It's the wrong way to go about it. If anything, we could be breeding anger and terror. I'm completely against what's happening. It's shocking. It's a horrible idea."
In May, Kerr called Trump a "blowhard" who "couldn't be more ill-suited to be president."
There's little doubt that his comments have emboldened his players to take stands of their own. Athletes are conditioned to be tight-lipped to the media, especially when it comes to politics. Trump's divisiveness has made it more acceptable for players to voice their opinions. It shouldn't come as a surprise if other speak up when asked about the team's potential decision to forgo the traditional victory trip to the White House, and it isn't hard to imagine the team "unanimously" coming to that decision enthusiastically over some champagne in the early hours of Tuesday morning.
This story was updated with the Warriors' statement that they have not decided on a White House visit following their NBA Finals victory​.


Jose Mourinho will target Chelsea’s  Nemanja Matic ahead of Fabinho, the A.S. Monaco midfielder, according to a new report that suggests a change in Manchester United’s transfer plans that could upset a fierce Premier League rival.
United was thought to be in for the 23-year-old but the  Manchester Evening News claims Matic, the  Chelsea enforcer, is more likely as Mourinho seeks a way to release Paul Pogba’s creativity.
Major transfers between Premier League rivals can be fraught but with Chelsea reportedly targeting Monaco’s dynamic Tiemoue Bakayoko it seems Matic could be surplus to manager Antonio Conte’s plans.
It seems, though, that the prospect of Mourinho signing  Antoine Griezmann has disappeared altogether.
Griezmann, the 26-year-old France striker, has agreed a new deal with Atletico Madrid that will keep him in the Spanish capital until 2022. "The first thing I want to do is apologise to people who misunderstood my statements," Griezmann said in a statement given to Atletico’s club website.
"Since I have arrived, I have given everything for my club, my colleagues and my coaching staff." Griezmann had claimed in May that there was a “six out of ten chance” he would be joining United this summer.
United will probably now turn more of its attention towards Alvaro Morata, with  reports claiming Andrea Belotti of Torino is now a target for Paris Saint-Germain.
Arsenal will have to pay a fee of £60 million if it wants to land  Alexandre Lacazette from Lyon. Lacazette, the prolific France striker, is Arsene Wenger’s main attacking target according to the  Daily Telegraph although Wenger would still like Kylian Mbappe, A.S Monaco’s prodigious teenager who is wanted by Real Madrid.


Alvaro Morata’s agent has revealed that Manchester United has made a “very important offer” for his client, according to reports.
Jose Mourinho gave United’s CEO Ed Woodward a list of players he wanted the club to sign this summer, with a striker likely to be high on the list after releasing Zlatan Ibrahimovic.
Real Madrid forward  Morata, 24, looks to be United’s main target after it lodged a bid that his agent, Juanma Lopez, said would leave Real with a decision to make, according to the  Daily Mail.
Lopez, the reports says, also confirmed that Italian giant AC Milan had also made attempts to sign the Spanish striker but the offer was “unsatisfactory.”
He said of United: “It’s a club with a lot of charm, a very interesting option.
“I can say that there’s a very important offer and the decision now rests with Real. I cannot tell [if an agreement is close], we’ll see.”
Related:   Manchester United signing is latest product from Benfica’s talent factory. Remember the others?
United confirmed its first major signing of the summer on Saturday when  Victor Lindelof joined for £31 million (about $39 million) from Benfica.
Morata would become the second major signing, likely to take United’s summer spending over £100 million with Real valuing him at £70 million (about $89 million).  
But Torino forward  Andrea Belotti, 23, is also reportedly among the strikers Mourinho has considered as Ibrahimovic’s replacement.


When Manchester United announced Saturday that it had agreed a deal for Swedish defender Victor Lindelof, the focus was on how he would benefit Jose Mourinho’s team.
An unsteady defense would be strengthened by  Lindelof’s arrival as the start of a summer spending spree to help  Mourinho’s team challenge for the Premier League title, as well as in Europe.
Alvaro Morata, of Real Madrid, is the striker expected to replace Zlatan Ibrahimovic in attack, costing around £60 million (about $76 million). Torino’s  Andrea Belotti is being considered, too, as part of the rebuild.
But on the other end of the deal for Lindelof was Benfica, the Portuguese club that has won the Primeira Liga for the past four seasons despite selling off many of its best players.
Lindelof, 22, is the latest product of the Benfica talent factory, but there were many before him. Here,  Newsweek  takes a look at some of those players:
David Luiz
Sold to Chelsea in 2011 for £22 million (about $28 million), Luiz went on to win the FA Cup, Champions League and Europa League, as well as the Premier League after returning to the club for a second stint last summer. He was criticized for his adventurous style of defending when he first arrived at Stamford Bridge but was praised for playing a key part in Antonio Conte’s title-winning team last campaign. Luiz, 30, also won two league titles with Paris Saint Germain, and has been named in the team of the year on four different occasions.
Angel Di Maria
After playing a key role in Benfica’s title victory in 2010, Real Madrid paid £22 million for Di Maria that summer. The left-footed forward won La Liga, two Copa del Rey titles and the Champions League in four years at the Bernabeu, becoming a favorite during Jose Mourinho’s time at the club. Di Maria’s stock rose and Manchester United paid £59 million (about $75 million) for him in 2014, but the Argentine stayed for just one season before joining Paris Saint Germain where he has won Ligue 1.
Bernardo Silva at Louis II Stadium, Monaco, November 22, 2016. Silva, who was produced by Benfica, joined Manchester City last month.   Michael Steele/Getty
Bernardo Silva
Manchester City’s first signing of this summer, costing Pep Guardiola’s club £43.5 million (about $55 million), was developed through the Benfica academy. Silva, who like Di Maria is heavily left-footed, spent a year on loan at Monaco before joining the club permanently in January 2015. The 22-year-old Portuguese starred in Monaco’s team that reached the Champions League semifinal last season, before being plucked by Guardiola’s City.
Renato Sanches
Still only 19, Sanches was the last star product of the Benfica academy to leave when Bayern Munich paid £27.5 million (about $35 million) for the teenager last summer. Manchester United was also  reportedly interested in the midfielder’s services. He joined the Benfica academy in 2006, aged 9. He was named in the European Under-17 Championship team of the tournament in 2014 and, two years later, was named young player of the tournament at Euro 2016 in France, before his move to Bayern was confirmed.
Nemanja Matic at Wembley Stadium, London, April 22. Matic has won two Premier League titles since joining Chelsea from Benfica.   Richard Heathcote/Getty
Nemanja Matic
The giant Serbian midfielder was at Chelsea at the age of 21 but failed to secure a place in the first team. The Premier League club opted to sell Matic to Benfica in part of a swap deal for Luiz in 2011 but would end up paying £21 million ($27 million) to bring him back three years later. He played a key role in Mourinho’s title-winning team in 2015, and in Conte’s last season.
Ramires
Another Benfica product to have been picked up by Chelsea, Ramires joined Benfica in 2009 at the age of 22 for £6.5 million (about $8.2 million) from Cruzeiro Esporte in his home country of Brazil. After just a year at the Estadio da Luz, Chelsea paid £20 million for the industrious midfielder. He spent six years at Stamford Bridge, where he won the Premier League, FA Cup, League Cup, Champions League and Europa League. His most memorable goal came in the semifinal of the Champions League in 2012 when he lobbed Victor Valdes, the Barcelona goalkeeper, to take Chelsea toward the final. In January, Chinese Super League club Jiangsu Suning bought him for £25 million.
Axel Witsel
Part of Benfica’s brilliance is setting a buyout clause for its players. When the Portuguese club signed Witsel in 2011, it set a £35 million clause on his contract for any potential buyers that was met by Zenit Saint Petersburg just a year later. After four years in the Russian Premier League, Witsel, like Ramires, moved to the Chinese Super League in January.
Andre Gomes
Gomes broke into the Benfica team in 2012 at the age of 18 having developed through the club’s academy. He helped the team to the Liga title in 2014 and joined Valencia the following year after a season on loan at the Mestalla. In Spain, the Portuguese midfielder impressed so much that Barcelona paid its La Liga rival £30 million. However, readers of  Marca, a Spanish newspaper, voted Gomes the worst signing of 2016-17.
Fabio Coentrao
After three loan spells away, Coentrao established himself in the Benfica first team in 2010. His impression on Europe saw Real Madrid sign the left-back for £26 million on a six-year deal. Coentrao has won two La Liga titles, two Champions Leagues and the Copa del Rey in his five years at the Bernabeu.


Dennis Rodman is in North Korea again to meet supreme leader Kim Jong Un and if his previous visits are anything to go by, the trip promises to be odd at the very least.
Rodman, the 56-year-old five-time  NBA champion, has been to North Korea on five previous occasions but not since January 2014.
"My purpose is to actually see if I can keep bringing sports to North Korea, so that's the main thing," Rodman said on Tuesday in quotes reported by the  BBC.
Here’s how those previous trips played out.
Visit One: March 2013
Rodman’s first visit to North Korea set a terrifically zany precedent. A tour of the country with the Harlem Globetrotters included a basketball exhibition in Pyongyang during which Rodman called Kim a “friend for life.” The game, also featuring North Korean players, ended 110-all before Kim was presented with a Globetrotters jersey. The full, out-of-body experience is now available to watch on YouTube.

Visit Two: September 2013
Rodman returned to North Korea sponsored by Paddy Power, the Irish betting company. “I’ve come out here to see my friend [Kim],” he said at the time in quotes reported by the  New York Times. “I want to talk about basketball.” Rodman had tweeted in May 2013 that he wanted Kim to “cut Kenneth Bae loose,” referring to the South Korean-born U.S. citizen imprisoned with 15 years’ hard labor at the time. Bae, returned home in November 2014, later thanked Rodman as the “catalyst” for his release. “He has to do his job,” Rodman said of Kim in a press conference defending his visit. “He’s a very good guy.”

Visit Three: December 2013
Rodman returned to North Korea for the third time in the space of a year. His visit, to hold trials for a basketball exhibition game on Kim’s birthday, came days after the execution of the supreme leader’s uncle Jang Song-thaek. Amid criticism, Paddy Power  withdrew its sponsorship of Rodman’s trips.
Visit Four: January 2014
Before the game between a team of retired American basketball professionals and North Koreans, Rodman huskily sang Happy Birthday to Kim. Later on the trip he was forced to apologize for a rant on CNN in which he appeared to suggest that Bae deserved his imprisonment.



Arsenal will block Alexis Sanchez from moving to a Premier League rival this summer, with Chelsea and Manchester City both keen suitors, according to reports.
Sanchez, who grew increasingly frustrated in  Arsene Wenger’s team last year, is reportedly wanting a move away from the Emirates Stadium.
A reunion with Pep Guardiola at Manchester City is one possibility as is joining the Premier League champion Chelsea, but  Arsenal is looking to learn from its mistakes, according to the  Daily Mail.
Sanchez’s representatives, the reports says, have looked into a possible move to the Etihad Stadium or across London to Stamford Bridge.
But  Arsenal will not allow Sanchez to join a  domestic rival, fearing that the sale could come back to haunt them by propelling another club to the title.
Related:   Is Arsenal Already Straggling Behind its Premier League Title Rivals?
This was the case in 2012 when Arsenal sold Robin van Persie to Manchester United, and the Dutchman scored 30 goals in his first season to help Sir Alex Ferguson’s team become Premier League champion.
“It’s never great to lose players of that quality but he only had a year contract so we do not have a choice,” Wenger said at the time to French TV, as quoted by the  BBC. Sanchez, incidentally, has one year left on his contract at Arsenal.
That leaves the 28-year-old Chilean forward with only one likely option. Bayern Munich, the German Bundesliga champion, is believed to be in the market for Sanchez, and Arsenal would be more willing to sell to an indirect rival.
Juventus, the Italian champion, is another possibility, with a valuation of around £45 million put on the forward.


LeBron James threw everything he had, and then a little bit more, at the Golden State Warriors in Game Five of the 2017 NBA Finals.
Turns out 41 points, 13 rebounds and eight assists won’t get you past a  potential dynasty.
James was dominant as he had been all series against the Warriors at Oracle Arena on Monday. But Stephen Curry was good and Kevin Durant was great, and for the fourth time in the series the Warriors found enough offense to beat the Cleveland Cavaliers.
James led the Cavaliers in points per game through the Finals, his 31.8 second only to Durant’s 34.3 among both teams. With Durant performing at MVP level, the Warriors could afford an average series from shooting guard Klay Thompson as they took home a second championship in three years from three consecutive Finals against the Cavaliers.
Watch James’ highlights from the Cavaliers’ 129-120 defeat below.



Steph Curry celebrated winning the NBA championship for the second time in three years in some style. The Warriors point guard swapped the traditional champagne dousing for a cigar — and he smoked it on live TV during his postgame interview.
Curry had 34 points and 10 assists in contributing to the Golden State Warriors victory to wrap up the NBA Final series in Game 5, with a 129-120 win over the  Cleveland Cavaliers.
Golden State became the first team to score at least 100 points in every game of the playoffs, and Curry was clearly delighted when he joined  NBA TV for his postgame chat with a cigar.
Curry, 29, explained that this was no regular smoke; this had been a year in the making. “The backstory to this is, after Game 7 last year, I told one of my close friends to save this for a year from now,” Curry said.
In last year’s NBA Finals, the Warriors took a 3-1 lead heading into Game 5, the same as it had this year, but Curry’s team didn’t manage to wrap up the series. LeBron James’ Cavaliers turned the series on its head, winning the last three games to take the title 4-3.
“To be able to enjoy the process and journey,” Curry added. “I’ve been waiting a whole year to smoke this, so I’m going to enjoy every last bit of this.”
Take a look as Curry lights up:



This piece has been updated to correct LeBron James' scoring statistics from Game Five.
Kevin Durant hugged his mom in the moments after victory in Game Five of the NBA Finals brought him his first championship.
But first,  Durant embraced another special someone too.
LeBron James, whose 41 points and triple-double average through the series could not hold off the Golden State Warriors’ multiple offensive juggernauts, was there to greet Durant with a hand slap, a hug and a pat on the head.

Durant has attracted ire for his decision to join the Warriors, who won 73 games last year but lost a 3-1 lead in the 2016 Finals to James’ Cleveland Cavaliers.
This time, James and Cavaliers point guard Kyrie Irving dragged the team to one dominant victory, in Game Four, while they blew an 11-point lead in Game Three. With the addition of Durant, the Warriors found enough ammunition to hold off James.
On Monday night at Oracle Arena, Durant had 39 points—the difference-maker in the Finals as teammate Draymond Green had predicted—and walked off as Finals MVP.
James—at his lowest ebb—was there to greet him, magnanimously.
Correction: This piece originally stated James achieved a triple-double in Game Five. He averaged a triple-double through the series.


Former NBA star Dennis Rodman said on Tuesday he was about to visit North Korea as a private citizen.
Rodman met North Korean leader Kim Jong Un on previous trips to Pyongyang.
He was expected to arrive in North Korea later on Tuesday for a trip that the State Department said was not an official U.S. visit, CNN reported on Monday.
In a tweet posted on Tuesday morning, Rodman confirmed what will be his fourth visit to the secretive east Asian state, saying he "will discuss when I return."
 
Headed back to North Korea. Thank you https://t.co/zBtIFz1QBr for sponsoring my mission. I&#39;ll discuss when I return. https://t.co/oCEsSvI90B

 
The Washington Post, meanwhile, noted that Rodman's visit to Kim, a basketball fan, comes at the same time as U.S. President Donald Trump is reportedly attempting to establish "back channels" of communication to the supreme leader.
Four U.S. citizens are currently being held by North Korea, including Otto Warmbier, a student at the University of Virginia given 15 years in prison with hard labor for the attempted theft of a propaganda poster in January 2016.


The Golden State Warriors beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 129-120 on Monday to win their second NBA championship in three seasons and cap a near-perfect run through the playoffs.
The Warriors, who beat Cleveland in the 2015 Finals only to lose to them last year after squandering a 3-1 series lead, went a record-setting 15-1 in the playoffs, their only loss coming in Game Four of the best-of-seven championship.
The win spelled redemption for the Warriors, who brought forward Kevin Durant over from the Oklahoma City Thunder last offseason to bolster their already high-powered offence.
Durant, who lost in his only previous Finals appearance, led the way for the Warriors with 39 points and was relieved after feeling pressure to deliver prior to the game.
"I couldn't sleep for two days," Durant, who was named the Finals MVP, said during an on-court interview. "I was anxious, I was jittery.
"I just wanted to lay it all out there. I put in work, I just had to trust in it. We were really good tonight."
Durant tipped his hat to Cleveland, especially guard Kyrie Irving and forward LeBron James.
"You have to tip your hat to Cleveland," he said.
"LeBron and Kyrie I've never seen nothing like them two before. But we prevailed, we're champions and it's amazing doing it on our home floor."
James had a game-high 41 points and Irving hit tough shots all night but defensive breakdowns by Cleveland led to easy baskets late in the game for the Warriors, igniting a deafening crowd.
"We learned from everything we've been through," Warriors point guard Stephen Curry said during the trophy celebration. "Our perspective, being blessed to play on this stage three years in a row.
"To be back here and bring gold Larry (O'Brien) back home, I'm just excited to be a part of this group and accomplish something special. I'm ready to do it again."
An unprecedented third straight Finals clash between the Warriors and Cavaliers was hyped as the ultimate championship rubber match and expected to be the antidote for a postseason that had little in the way of drama.
But that idea fizzled fast when the Warriors opened with a pair of lopsided wins at home, fought back late to steal the next game in Cleveland and then, after dropping their first game of the postseason, closed out the series at home.
In the end, the Cavaliers simply did not have the requisite star power to topple the talent-laden Warriors, even with four-time league MVP James doing all he could to keep his team in it.
For James, already a three-times champion, the loss puts him in rare - but not ideal - company as only the fourth player to come up short in five NBA Finals.
Cleveland's inability to give the Warriors much of a fight has already sparked talk that James, who left the team in 2010 for Miami before returning four years later, could consider another move during 2018 free agency.


Manchester United is closing on its second signing of the 2017 summer transfer window, according to reports.
Having agreed a deal for Benfica’s Victor Lindelof to partner  Eric Bailly in the center of defense,  Jose Mourinho has turned his attention to adding steel and energy to his midfield as he seeks the balance that would allow Paul Pogba to roam.
His target?  Fabinho, the A.S. Monaco central midfielder who was so impressive last season during the French club’s run to the Champions League semifinals.
According to  The Independent, “progress” has been made towards a deal for the 23-year-old who can also play at right back, where he could cover for Antonio Valencia.
After a season in which it crashed out of the Champions League, humiliatingly, to Barcelona and surrendered the Ligue 1 title to Monaco, Paris Saint-Germain is determined to “send a strong signal” to the rest of Europe, according to  L’Equipe.
That could be bad news for Premier League clubs because P.S.G. apparently has its sights set on another Monaco player, teenager  Kylian Mbappe.
Mbappe, 18, made a name for himself last season with a series of startling performances in Monaco’s Champions League campaign. He was reported to be an Arsenal target but  L’Equipe  says P.S.G.’s chairman Nasser al-Khelaifi has established contact with Mbappe’s representatives over a summer deal through Antero Henrique, the Parisians’ new sports director.
Chelsea,  meanwhile, has watched rivals United and Manchester City make early progress in the transfer market and may now be prepared to move. According to  AS , the Spanish newspaper, manager Antonio Conte wants Real Madrid’s James Rodriguez as a replacement for Cesc Fabregas.
Conte wanted Alvaro Morata as a replacement for Diego Costa but Morata appears set for United and the Italian is said to be “confident” that he will not be outbid for Rodriguez as well.


Jose Mourinho has left Manchester United’s summer transfer dealings to CEO Ed Woodward, with a striker at the top of his list.
Alvaro Morata, of Real Madrid, is among the targets for  United along with Torino’s Andrea Belotti, who United has made a £70 million ($89 million) bid for, according to  The Independent.
Belotti, 23, is currently on international duty with Italy, and on Sunday night he scored the second goal of a 5-0 victory over Liechtenstein in group B of the 2018 World Cup qualifiers.
Belotti, who scored 28 goals in 37 goals for Torino last season, linked up with Napoli forward Lorenzo Insigne and finished coolly past Peter Jehle.
Take a look:



“Come to me, you will be important.”
Those are the words  Jose Mourinho used to convince Real Madrid striker  Alvaro Morata into a move to Old Trafford, according to a report in the Spanish press.
Marca, the Madrid-based newspaper, claims Morata, 24, has made up his mind on a transfer that will cost United somewhere between £62 million and £79 million.
For much of last season it seemed a foregone conclusion that Mourinho would take Antoine Griezmann from Atletico Madrid. But a serious injury to Zlatan Ibrahimovic, who is no longer at the club, left the Portuguese needing a “number nine” to hold the ball up as well as score goals.
Morata has emerged as the most likely signing to replace Ibrahimovic in part due to his dissatisfaction at Real.  Marca claims he is unhappy predominantly playing as a substitute. Mourinho has promised to make him feel loved and valued while Morata, who played at Juventus in Serie A for two seasons before returning to Santiago Bernabeu for the 2016-17 campaign, has heard good things about United from Spain teammates Ander Herrera and David De Gea.
Morata’s price may yet be a sticking point. The report claims United and Real are going to meet on Monday, though they remain a way apart on a valuation. United would like Morata for £62 million while Real wants £79 million, which would make the player the fourth most-expensive transfer of all time.
It seems likely the two clubs will meet somewhere in between though huge transfer fees pose little problem to United, as it proved last summer by sanctioning a world-record deal for Paul Pogba. If Morata has been so convinced by Mourinho, United may now hold the power in the deal, making it reasonable to expect to see Morata lining up in United red for the first game of the new Premier League season in August.


The United States Men’s National Team took a point out of the Azteca Stadium Sunday night against Mexico to remain on course for 2018 World Cup qualification.
The way it did so will live long in the memory.
Michael Bradley, the Toronto FC midfielder who spent many of his formative years in European football, conjured up something his former AS Roma teammate  Francesco Totti would have been proud of on six minutes. Intercepting a pass in the center of the field, one touch took Bradley clear of the Mexico defense. Then, spotting Mexico goalkeeper Guillermo Ochoa off his line, the 29-year-old carved a parabola over his head.
Carlos Vela equalized to deny Bruce Arena’s side three points and keep Mexico top of the North, Central American and Caribbean (CONCACAF) qualifying group.
See the move below:



FIFA president Gianni Infantino does not believe that the diplomatic crisis which has embroiled 2022 World Cup host nation Qatar will threaten its staging of the tournament, he said on Sunday.
The global soccer body also confirmed that it had replaced a Qatari refereeing team who were due to officiate at a World Cup qualifying match involving the United Arab Emirates on Tuesday.
In an interview published in Swiss newspapers Le Matin Dimanche and Sonntagszeitung, Infantino said he expected the diplomatic situation to be back to normal by the time the tournament is played in five-and-a-half years' time.
Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Bahrain cut links with Qatar last Monday, accusing Doha of supporting terrorism. Qatar says the allegations are based on lies.
Asked if he believed that Qatar's hosting was in danger, Infantino replied: "No. In any case, I am not in the habit of speculating and I'm not going to this time either."
Infantino said that FIFA was watching the situation and was in regular contact with the Qatari authorities.
"The essential role of FIFA, as I understand it, is to deal with football and not to interfere in geopolitics," he said.
"We are indeed facing a diplomatic crisis. But on the other hand, I am confident that the region will return to a normalized situation. The World Cup is in 2022. In five years. Obviously, if football can make a small contribution, in any way, to an improvement, I will not hesitate to offer my help."
FIFA confirmed in an emailed statement to Reuters that the UAE's match away to Thailand on Tuesday would no longer be refereed by Qatari officials.
"We can confirm that FIFA has replaced the match officials originally appointed for the... game," it said. "The decision has been taken for sporting reasons and in view of the current geopolitical situation."
FIFA added that it had changed the officials of its own accord and denied it had responded to a UAE request.
The UAE federation said on Twitter that the match referee would now be Muhammad Taqi from Singapore.


Claycourt master Rafael Nadal was too hot to handle as he crushed Swiss third seed Stan Wawrinka 6-2 6-3 6-1 to claim a record-extending 10th French Open title on Sunday.
The fourth seed, who has lost only two matches at Roland Garros since his debut in 2005, is now just one short of Margaret Court's all-time record of 11 titles at a single grand slam.
Nadal, who has now won 15 grand slam titles in total, was never troubled in a one-sided final.
He claimed the Musketeers Cup without dropping a set in the tournament for the third time, having lost only 35 games en route to achieving what has been dubbed 'La Decima'.
Wawrinka, who had won his three previous finals at a major, bowed out on the second match point when he sliced a backhand volley into the net.
2003—Became the youngest player to reach the third round at Wimbledon since Boris Becker in 1984.
2004—Defeated then-world number two Andy Roddick to help Spain clinch the Davis Cup title. He won the tournament again in 2008, 2009 and 2011.
2005—Won the French Open on his debut in 2005 and a year later beat Roger Federer in the final for his second title.
2007—Became the first man since Bjorn Borg in 1980 to win a hat-trick of Roland Garros titles.
2008—Won gold medal at Beijing Olympics for Spain in singles. He won the doubles gold with Marc Lopez at 2016 Rio Games.
2009—Suffered his first French Open defeat when he lost to Robin Soderling in the fourth round.
2010—He came back to regain the title, beating Soderling in the final. He also won his first U.S. Open title, becoming the seventh man to win all four grand slam titles.
2011—Matched Borg's record of six French Open titles.
2013—Became the first man with eight titles at the same grand slam tournament when he beat fellow Spaniard David Ferrer in the French Open final. He also won the U.S. Open.
2014—Became the first man to win five successive French Open titles.
2017—Reached the Australian Open final where he lost to Federer in five sets. The Spaniard won three titles on the Tour before entering Roland Garros.


Russian tennis star Maria Sharapova will not return to the Wimbledon tennis tournament in her first season since her controversial doping ban.
Sharapova has not played since pulling out from her second-round match at the Italian Open on May 16 with an injury. The tournament was part of an ambitious return schedule, following a 15-month ban from all competitions after testing positive for meldonium — a banned substance that increases exercise capacity in athletes. She faces a race against time to recover a high ranking and seeded entry into Grand Slam tournaments.
The return of the five time Grand Slam winner has prompted some negative backlash from fellow tennis players, particularly since she has been awarded wild card status in some tournaments including next week’s Aegon Classic in Birmingham as well as ranking tournaments in Stuttgart, Madrid and Rome. Those who argued for her participation said that, as a five-time champion, her return would drive up ticket sales, especially for the less prominent events on the tour.
Read More: Here is how Maria Sharapova responded to her French Open rejection
The debate about whether the famous Russian should benefit from a career boost is a thorny one, with some of her competitors angered by treatment that they perceive as too lenient. Canadian ace Eugenie Bouchard claimed Sharapova should be banned  from the sport  for life  for the drugs ban. The pair’s showdown on the court in Madrid was then billed as a grudge match.
The French Open, Roland-Garros, denied her wildcard status because of the drugs ban, announcing its decision shortly before Sharapova pulled out of the Italian Open. Her performance in Italy meant she ranked high enough for entry into Wimbledon qualifiers starting June 26, but she needed to reach the semifinals in Rome to enter the Wimbledon main draw.
In a post on  Facebook, Sharapova confirmed her injury would keep her out of the entire grass season, missing the opportunity to recover her ranking from her current world position of 178.
“After an additional scan, the muscle tear that I sustained in Rome will unfortunately not allow me to compete in the grass court tournaments I was scheduled to play,” she wrote. “I want to thank the LTA (Lawn and Tennis Association) for their amazing support on my return and providing me with a Birmingham wild card, a tournament which I hope many of you will be able to attend.”
As a result, Sharapova will not be ranked highly enough for direct entry into the U.S. Open on August 28.  She has not played a Grand Slam since her ban.
Sharapova plans to return to action at the week-long tennis tournament in Stanford, California, in late July.


Arsene Wenger is facing the toughest summer of his 21 years as manager of Arsenal after failing to qualify for the Champions League for the first time in two decades.
Winning the FA Cup last month came as little consolation after finishing fifth in the  Premier League and missing out on Europe’s top club competition. That will make the prospect of joining  Arsenal less attractive, and, possibly, add to the price of potential signings.
This summer, the board has urged  Wenger to be more  assertive in the market after years of frustrating transfer windows for the club. But the Frenchman also faces three months of holding off the interest of other clubs in his key players. Here,  Newsweek  looks at the business Wenger will have to consider this summer, both for incomings and outgoings:
Don’t Go  —  Again!
For years, much of the criticism pointed at Wenger has been regarding his failure to hold onto players. Robin van Persie, most notably, left Arsenal in 2012 to join Manchester United, where he won the Premier League title as top scorer. There are fears this summer than Alexis Sanchez could be the Van Persie of 2017, with Manchester City, Chelsea and, even, Manchester United circling for the disgruntled forward. Abroad, Bayern Munich is reported to be offering Sanchez a lucrative deal and, of course, Champions League football. Convincing Sanchez to stay may be the hardest task of the summer for Wenger.
Another headache for Wenger is  Barcelona’s interest in Hector Bellerin, the 22-year-old Spanish defender. Bellerin was developed through the La Masia academy but left to join Arsenal in 2011 at the age of 16 where he stayed and excelled. With Barca reportedly offering more than £40 million for the right back, Arsenal has to decide whether to cash-in once again.
Steel in Defense
The joke circling Wembley Stadium on the afternoon of the FA Cup final, when Arsenal beat Chelsea to lift its only silverware of the season, concerned the man of the match. Per Mertesacker, the club captain, had been named in the Arsenal team for the first time that season after recovering from injury, and his stellar performance drew some to call for him to be named Player of the Year at the Emirates Stadium.
Such praise also cast disdain on the rest of Arsenal’s team, and defense. Laurent Koscielny has been the mainstay at the heart of the backline, the skillful Frenchman capable of launching attacks and preventing them, but lacking in consistency. The man meant to strengthen the defense was Shkodran Mustafi who signed from Valencia for £35 million on the final day of the transfer window last summer. Mustafi, a German international, has struggled to get up to speed with the pace and intensity of English football. So, will Wenger look to shore up his defense once again? He has already added left-back Sead Kolasinac to the squad and has been urged by former Gunner  Sol Campbell to sign Virgil van Dijk from Southampton.
Goalscoring Galactico
Arsenal has relied heavily on Alexis Sanchez’s goals—30 last season—to win games, but may not be able to do so next year. The next highest scorer was Olivier Giroud with 16 in 40 matches. With the club in danger of losing Sanchez, it will desperately need a forward capable of scoring at least 20 goals a season. Reports have suggested Wenger has travelled to France to try and bring Kylian Mbappe, the Monaco forward and Europe’s most exciting prospect, to north London. Mbappe is still only 18 years old but starred in a Monaco team that reached the semifinal of the Champions League, scoring 24 goals in 41 matches for the Ligue 1 side. The problem, of course, is that Monaco is said to want a world-record sum to sell Mbappe. Another issue for Arsenal is that Real Madrid, with all its financial might, is keen on signing the forward. And, worse still, Mbappe is even believed to want to remain in the south of France for at least one more season.
Wenger, instead, has looked at another of France’s prolific attackers, and one in his prime. Alexandre Lacazette, the Lyon striker, has been linked with a move to Arsenal for the past two summers, but a deal was never agreed. Lyon is likely to demand around £50 million for the 26-year-old but if Lacazette can take the goalscoring form that saw him score 36 in 44 games last season, it would be money well spent for Wenger and Arsenal.


Jose Mourinho has described himself as “fed up” and “tired of football” after an exhausting first season at Manchester United that left him needing a break.
This, the Portuguese coach said, would mean the burden of transfer business at Old Trafford would be  left to United CEO Ed Woodward while he took a step back.  Mourinho added that he had given a list of players he wants to Woodward.
United’s three trophies last season included the Europa League, which qualified United for next season’s Champions League, in turn making the Premier League club a much more attractive destination for prospective players. Here,  Newsweek  looks at the areas that  Mourinho —or, rather, Woodward—will have to address this summer:
Dealing With Rooney
When Wayne Rooney came on for Juan Mata in the 89th minute of the Europa League final last month, the move was seen as a sentimental gesture from Mourinho; a way of allowing him to say goodbye and leave on a high. Rooney had been linked with a lucrative move to the Chinese Super League, but reports suggest he wouldn’t be keen on the move. The MLS in the U.S. is an option, too. Rooney, however, is said to want to make a return to Everton, the club he left for United in 2003, aged 16, and the club he grew up supporting. More sentimentality; but that all ends as reports suggest Everton would not be able to afford his wages and the  Daily Mail says he would be willing to sit on his contract at Old Trafford until it expires next summer. That wouldn’t suit United, nor Mourinho.
Replacing Ibrahimovic
“Thank you and goodbye” seems to be the message from United to Zlatan Ibrahimovic. At the age of 35, Ibrahimovic has come to the end of his one-year contract at United having scored 28 goals in 46 appearances, with crucial goals that helped Mourinho’s team to three trophies. But a cruciate ligament injury sidelined the Swede before the end of the season, and the  BBC says United will not offer him a contract extension.
This leaves Mourinho in need of a striker. Everton’s Romelu Lukaku was believed to be a target but the Belgian reportedly prefers a return to Chelsea, so now Alvaro Morata, the Real Madrid forward, is believed to be United’s top target, according to  The Guardian. The pace and aerial threat Morata possesses would fit as a replacement for Ibrahimovic, and the 24-year-old has also shown his prolific ability having scored just under a goal every other game last season with 22 in 47. Andrea Belotti, of Torino, is also said to be an option but the Italian club is demanding £70 million for him. United is in a compromised position; it needs a striker and everyone knows it, so inflated valuations will be charged.
Related:   Jose Mourinho Makes Big Bid While Chelsea Deals With Diego Costa in Today’s Transfer Round-Up
Settling The Defense
That Daley Blind played a large chunk of games at center back for United last season shows the faith Mourinho had in his defenders. Injuries ravaged Chris Smalling’s season but the United manager has criticized the English defender, and doesn’t appear to have great faith in him. The expectation is that a center back would be high on that scribbled list Mourinho handed to Woodward. In January, Benfica’s Victor Lindelof was sought after but the deal didn’t make it over the line. This summer, the 22-year-old Swede could be one of United’s first confirmed transfers, as reported by  The Independent.
Adding Experience to Midfield
Manchester United has one year of 35-year-old Michael Carrick left. The club said goodbye to Bastian Schweinsteiger earlier this year. Morgan Schneiderlin, too. The midfield at Old Trafford is lacking experience, with pressure mounting even greater on the shoulders of the world’s most expensive midfielder Paul Pogba. The highly sought after Belgian Radja Nainggolan, 29, is one of the possible targets for the club. Tiemoue Bakayoko, of Monaco, is another midfielder linked with a move to Old Trafford, but for all his quality, the Frenchman is still only 22 and lacks the experience Mourinho likes—and needs. 


And they’re off. The transfer window slides open today with the English football's wealthiest clubs deciding how to spend their money.
Jose Mourinho’s Manchester United is set to make a £60 million bid as he looks to bring in a big-name, prolific striker.  Chelsea, meanwhile, is looking to do the opposite after news of Diego Costa’s rift with  Antonio Conte on Thursday.
Arsene Wenger has been urged to be more assertive in the transfer market this summer, but reports today suggest that the  Arsenal manager is trying to hold onto players rather than sign them. Here,  Newsweek  takes you through all the news and rumors in the Premier League’s transfer market:
One of the certainties at Old Trafford this summer seemed to be that captain  Wayne Rooney would be heading for the exit. Everton was a possible destination, as was going to China or the MLS in the United States. But, according to the  Daily Mail, Rooney is considering remaining at Manchester United and seeing out his £250,000-a-week deal that has one year to run.
Zlatan Ibrahimovic is unlikely to be at the club next season, though, as the  BBC say United is not going to offer the 35-year-old striker a new contract. His replacement could be Real Madrid’s  Alvaro Morata, and United are set to make an improved bid of £60 million for the 24-year-old, according to  The Guardian.
Related:   ‘Fed Up’ Jose Mourinho Gives Transfer Ultimatum to Manchester United CEO
News that Antonio Conte wants to get rid of Chelsea striker  Diego Costa has seen various rumors about his next move. The  Daily Mirror says the Spanish striker is in talks over a £40 million move to AC Milan, but  The Sun claims Costa has begged Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich to help him stay at Stamford Bridge.
Chelsea is among the suitors, who also include Manchester City, for Southampton’s  Virgil van Dijk after Liverpool ended its interest in the defender. According to the  Daily Mail, Southampton will not let him leave for less than £70 million.
In north London, Arsenal is confident that Spanish right-back  Hector Bellerin will remain at the Emirates Stadium this summer, according to the  London Evening Standard, despite strong interest from Barcelona. The  paper also says Brighton, Newcastle, Watford and Stoke are keen on signing Gunners’ left-back Kieran Gibbs.
Arsenal is, however, preparing for  Alexis Sanchez to leave. The  Daily Mirror says Bayern Munich will offer the 28-year-old striker £350,000-a-week to take him to the Allianz Arena.
Jurgen Klopp has been keen on signing former Chelsea winger  Mohamed Salah but, according to the  Liverpool Echo, Roma’s valuation of £35 million is pricing  Liverpool out of the market.


The Saudi Arabian Football Federation has apologized after its national team did not properly observe a minute's silence for the victims of the London attacks before the start of a World Cup qualifier in Australia.
The Australia team lined up in the centre circle ahead of the match at Adelaide Oval late on Thursday but all bar one of the Saudi players, although silent, dispersed around the pitch and continued to jog and stretch.
Eight people were killed and 50 injured after three Islamist militants drove into pedestrians on London Bridge last Saturday, then attacked revellers nearby with knives. Two of the dead were Australian.
Football Federation Australia (FFA) said it had "sought agreement" from the Saudis and regional governing body, the Asian Football Confederation (AFC), to hold the minute's silence. 
"Both the AFC and the Saudi team agreed that the minute of silence could be held," a spokesman said. 
"The FFA was further advised by Saudi team officials that this tradition was not in keeping with Saudi culture and they would move to their side of the field and respect our custom whilst taking their own positions on the field."
The governing body of Saudi football later issued a statement saying it "deeply" regretted and "unreservedly" apologised for their players not "formally" observing the minute's silence.
"The players did not intend any disrespect to the memories of the victims or to cause upset to their families, friends or any individual affected by the atrocity," it added.
"The Saudi Arabian Football Federation condemns all acts of terrorism and extremism and extends its sincerest condolences to the families of all the victims and to the government and people of the United Kingdom."
The AFC said it had monitored the incident, as well as "various statements", but that any disciplinary action against the Saudis would have to come from world governing body FIFA, who have jurisdiction over all World Cup qualifiers. 
The incident prompted a social media storm and comes at a time when Australians are still mourning victims of recent attacks.
In addition to the Australians who died in London, a deadly siege in Melbourne on Tuesday that Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull called "an act of terrorism" claimed one victim, while an Australian schoolgirl was one of more than a dozen killed in a Baghdad car bomb blast last week. 
Turnbull said on Friday that he had not seen video of the incident at the Adelaide Oval but thought everybody should condemn "terrorism".
"The whole world, the whole free world, is united in condemnation of that terrorist attack and terrorism generally," he told reporters in Tasmania.
"The heartbreaking, heartbreaking loss of young Australians in London, of course in Baghdad, and just this week in Melbourne to these murderous terrorists - everybody, everyone should be united in condemnation of the terrorists and love and sympathy and respect for the victims and their families."
Australia won the match 3-2 to move level on 16 points in Group B with the second-placed Saudis and leaders Japan, who have a game in hand, with two rounds to play.
The top two teams win a place at the World Cup finals in Russia next year.


On May 25, 1969, Midnight Cowboy was released with an X rating (it would win Best Picture the following year), the Sudanese government was overthrown in a military coup d’état and Jon Sutherland did not go for a run.
Hundreds of millions of men and women eschew running each day, but Sutherland’s day off has become newsworthy. It is now more than 48 years later, and that date marked the last time the Earth made one full rotation without the long and lean loper dashing at least one mile. "On May 25, 1969 I got off crutches after a very painful bout of shin splints," says Sutherland. "I was cleared to run on May 26th that began the journey."
When the 66-year-old Southern Californian downs his customary swig of Dr. Pepper (“I’ve never drank coffee in my life,” Sutherland says) before his early morning run on Thursday, it will mark the 17,546th consecutive day that he has gone running. He has run every day and has even, in December of 1971, run every hour of one day. "I did it with nine college teammates," says Sutherland, who attended Los Angeles Valley College for two years (where he also threw a no-hitter) and later Cal-State Northridge. "I ran 29 miles in a 24-hour period, averaging right around five-minute miles."
Sutherland’s is the longest known run of running still running. Three-time British Olympian Ron Hill, who won the 1970 Boston Marathon, ended his streak of more than 52 years last January due to heart problems. Sutherland established the United States consecutive-days record a little more than three years ago, when he eclipsed the mark of 45 years set by his former Los Angeles Valley College cross-country teammate Mark Covert. “It was Mark who inspired me to begin this,” says Sutherland, the cross-country coach at Chaminade Prep in West Hills, California. “I always looked up to him—and at his back during races—and he told me in 1969 that he had run every day for a year. So I thought, Why not?”
Sutherland runs daily on the trails behind his West Hills, California, home   COURTESY JON SUTHERLAND
Wednesday marked the second annual Global Running Day, in which millions of people from both hemispheres renewed their pledges to running. Sutherland, who went for runs in the morning and afternoon at El Escorpion Park, not far from his home, was blissfully unaware that such a day existed. “Is it?” he said. “I had no idea.”
The 6-foot-4-inch, 158-pound harrier has long been fueled by the twin passions of running and rock ’n’ roll. (His email address begins “jonrunrock@.”) A music journalist for three decades, Sutherland recalls watching Jimi Hendrix tune his guitar before a show across the street from his alma mater Granada Hills High School in 1969. Like a scene out of Almost Famous, the teenage Sutherland approached the guitar god and asked, “What’s happening?” Hendrix replied matter-of-factly, “Me!”
Running has long set Sutherland apart from most of the human race, and for that he has zero regrets. During his final two undergrad years at Cal-State Northridge, where Sutherland was a philosophy major, he wrote a paper titled “Is It Okay to Dedicate Your Life to Running If You’re Not Any Good?” The irony is that the former sub-4-minute-10-second miler, sub-2-minute-25-second marathoner and sub-29-minute 10K racer is very, very good.
Sutherland has taken part in more than 600 races of varying distances and won approximately half of them. In the 1970s, he led Boston Marathon legend Bill Rodgers in a 10K for most of the race before Rodgers beat him by two steps, turning backward as he broke the tape and asking, “Who are you?”
Sutherland alternates between fond memories of running and rock with the ease of an inveterate runner transitioning between trails and roads. And he is hyperaware that this streak has taken him from Running on Empty (Jackson Browne) to The Long Run (Eagles) through Running With the Devil (Van Halen), all of which were penned by fellow Los Angelenos.
Sutherland’s top 10K on a track was a blazing 28 minutes, 51 seconds.   COURTESY JON SUTHERLAND
In one moment he will talk about premeet training runs with the legendary Steve Prefontaine and New Zealand’s Rod Dixon (the 1,500-meter bronze medalist at the 1972 Olympics), a lifelong friend. In the next, and with no less enthusiasm, Sutherland will share how he helped Metallica find a new bassist. “I was talking to Lars [Ulrich] and they were looking for someone,” says Sutherland. “I was known as the guy who knew all of the L.A. musicians, and I suggested Jason Newsted. He stuck with them for 15 years.”
After Newsted played a few dates with Metallica in 1986, Sutherland stopped by a show to see how the new guy was working out. “I walked through a door,” he says, “and the guys spotted me and dogpiled me.”
Sutherland (center) hanging with heavy-metal band Armored Saint back in the Eighties   COURTESY JON SUTHERLAND
Sutherland’s running stretch has never been tested by familial obligations (he is a lifelong bachelor and has no children), but there have been physical tribulations: He has broken 10 bones and undergone two arthroscopic knee surgeries. “The trick is to have the surgery early in the morning,” he says, “and then bribe the doc into giving you time-release painkillers.”
Related: Top running coach quits so wife can rock NASA
During a half-marathon run on Ventura Boulevard, Sutherland slipped on a patch of ice and, like the character in the Tom Petty song that references the street, found himself free-falling. He suffered a hip avulsion—part of his pelvic bone literally broke off—but he still kept running. “I was in pain for nine months after that,” says Sutherland, “but I never stopped.”
He has squeezed in 11:30 p.m. runs in order to maintain the continuity. He has yet to be derailed by weather, although he vividly remembers an ice storm in Atlanta where "trees and telephone poles were falling due to the weight of the ice." Late nights covering bands never stopped him (“I won a 10K the morning after a David Bowie concert”) nor has Southern California’s notorious traffic. “I always carry a running kit in my car,” says Sutherland, a “head-to-toe” Nike guy, “so that if I have to pull over, park and get in a run, I will.”
Sutherland has dozens and dozens of meticulously kept running journals in his home dating back decades.   COURTESY JON SUTHERLAND   
He knows what you’re wondering. “My dad used to ask, ‘Why do you do it?’ ” Sutherland says. “I had a local CBS station follow me around for four days, and they talked to a psychologist and tried to prove I was crazy. It’s as simple as this: I always wanted to have fun. Memories over money. How many people can say they’ve run with Steve Prefontaine and been dogpiled by Metallica?”
Few. So he continues to run. Thursday is day number 17,546 and Friday, after a swig of Dr. Pepper, is day number 17,547. For decades, he has had a runner drafting off him: Jim Pearson of Marysville, Washington, whose own streak began on February 16, 1970. Pearson is 246 days behind Sutherland, but he is also 73, and Sutherland shows no signs of relinquishing the lead. “What will get me to stop?” he asks. “Death, I guess. I love to run, and this is who I am. It’s not negotiable.”


After the final game of the Premier League season, Jurgen Klopp said his team had “pretty much done” its work after qualifying for the Champions League.
Liverpool finished fourth in the table and will enter the European competition’s qualifying stages in August, a position that makes the club far more attractive to players. Officially, the  transfer window opens on Friday, but  Liverpool has already made headlines for its attempts to sign Southampton center back Virgil van Dijk.
Here,  Newsweek  looks at the areas that  Klopp needs to address this summer as he prepares for his third season at Anfield.
Lots of goals
Everybody wants one, but Liverpool needs one. Liverpool’s top scorers in the league last season were Philippe Coutinho and Sadio Mane, with 13 goals each—that’s less than half the total of Tottenham’s Harry Kane, who won the Golden Boot with 29 goals.
Klopp’s team is based on the strategy of every player flooding forward with such pace and fluidity is capable of scoring. But, as seen throughout last season, this style came unstuck whenever a team sat behind the ball and defended. The six defeats Liverpool endured in the league came against Burnley, Bournemouth, Swansea, Hull City, Leicester and Crystal Palace, teams it was expected to beat. Klopp needs a 20-goals-a-season striker, but that is going to cost him.
A reliable goalkeeper
After signing Loris Karius from Mainz last summer, Klopp looked to bring him into the team as his first-choice goalkeeper, ahead of Simon Mignolet. In the end, it caused him a headache. Karius’s mistakes drew criticism from players and pundits, notably the former Manchester United players Gary and Phil Neville, comments Klopp got particularly annoyed about.
The German flipped back to Mignolet as his number one in December, and Karius was between the posts for the cup competitions. Clearly, Klopp doesn’t have complete faith in either goalkeeper. The suggestion is that he may capitalize on Joe Hart’s inevitable exit from Manchester City.
Read more:   Jose Mourinho target valued at £87 million, Arsenal deal breaks down in today’s transfer round-up
Daniel Sturridge: stay or go?
The England striker could be the answer to Klopp’s problems in attack. In 2014, when Liverpool finished second in the Premier League under Brendan Rodgers, Sturridge scored 28 goals in 42 appearances for club and country. He is capable, but doesn’t seem to fit into Klopp’s style. He is also a big injury risk, having sat out significant amount of the past two seasons with illness and injury. If Klopp doesn’t want him, Liverpool should cash-in on the 27-year-old forward to create funds for a striker who does fit in and will score the goals the team needs.
A capable center-back
Virgil van Dijk was meant to be that man. The Dutchman had chosen Liverpool, the club said it was willing to pay £60 million for him, but then it all came crashing down on Wednesday when Liverpool abruptly ended its interest and apologized to Southampton, Van Dijk’s club, for its approach. So Klopp is still on the lookout. Michael Keane, of Burnley, is one of the most sought-after center-backs after proving to be resolute in defense and creative outside it. Middlesbrough’s Ben Gibson fits into that category, too.


The Golden State Warriors are now just one game away from the perfect postseason after taking a 3-0 lead over Cleveland Cavaliers in the NBA Finals on Wednesday night.
Win on Friday and  the Warriors will become the first team in history to win 16 out of 16 in the postseason. The Cavaliers gave it everything on Wednesday but were stunned by the Warriors scoring the game’s final 11 points in the last three minutes to turn the score on its head. The game ended 118-113 to the Warriors.
LeBron James, once again, starred for the Cavaliers, hitting 39 points, 11 rebounds and nine assists. But James and the Cavaliers’ whole series was summed up in just one play, posted to Twitter by Bleacher Report, where  Stephen Curry snatches the ball from James as he goes for the hoop.
Related: Watch the moment LeBron James passed Michael Jordan for career playoff points
Watch the moment here:



Kellogg Co faced off with Australian tennis player Thanasi Kokkinakis in court on Thursday, with the cereal giant accusing the sportsman nicknamed "Special K" of using its intellectual property for commercial purposes.
The United States-listed firm wants to stop the 21-year-old from using its trademarked product name as a moniker in advertisements for tennis clothing, a spokeswoman told Reuters.
The matter had its first hearing in Federal Court of the city of Adelaide, Kokkinakis's hometown, on Thursday, according to court filings.
Kellogg's lawyer declined to comment, while Kokkinakis's lawyer did not respond to two calls requesting comment.
The tennis player's official Twitter account on Thursday published a crying laughter image with no words.
 
_
 
Kellogg, which dominates the Australian cereal market, promotes Special K as a healthy, low-fat, low-sugar breakfast, often featuring physical activity in its advertisements.
"His association (with the brand) could help, but at the end of the day it's a trademark that we own and we want to continue to own," said the Kellogg spokeswoman, referring to Kokkinakis.
The Davis Cup player reached his highest world ranking of 69 as a teenager in 2015 before a series of injuries sidelined him for the best part of 18 months. He made his singles return in Bordeaux last month.


Less than 24 hours until the transfer window slides open and the Premier League’s top teams are being linked with spending big this summer.
Manchester United paid a world-record sum to sign Paul Pogba last summer, and it may have to do so again during this window as Jose Mourinho seeks a new striker. His former club  Chelsea is also in the market for a new forward, as well as Antonio Conte considering a swap deal to strengthen his defense.
Arsene Wenger looks to have been hit with a blow in his pursuit of one of Europe’s finest young talents, while  Tottenham seeks a defender to join its already solid backline. Here,  Newsweek  guides you through the news and rumors on Thursday morning:
Jose Mourinho’s hunt for a striker has seen him linked with Europe’s finest. Manchester United has had a £52.4 million bid for Real Madrid’s  Alvaro Morata turned down, according to  Sky Sports.
Mourinho’s other option has been Torino’s 23-year-old striker  Andrea Belotti, the Italian who scored 28 goals in Serie A last season. But the  Manchester Evening News says United will have to meet Belotti’s £87 million release clause if it wants to bring him to Old Trafford.
Antonio Conte is looking to strengthen his Chelsea squad ahead of the new season, and his pursuit of center back  Leonardo Bonucci has been widely reported. This morning,  The Sun says Chelsea is willing to offer £48 million for the Italian plus midfielder  Nemanja Matic.
After reports yesterday that  Romelu Lukaku had told his agent, Mino Raiola, that he wanted to join Chelsea, the  London Evening Standard says the west London club will pay £80 million for  the Belgian striker and pay him more than £150,000-a-week.
Lukaku looks set to replace  Diego Costa as the club’s main striker after the Spaniard told reporters that Conte told him he was no longer needed at Chelsea and would need to find a new club, as quoted by the  BBC.
In north London, Arsene Wenger has been reportedly chasing the signature of Monaco wonderboy  Kylian Mbappe, 18. Arsenal is also facing competition from the might of Real Madrid, with some suggestions saying the young forward would cost a world-record sum. But, according to  Le Parisien, Mbappe will reject any move away from Monaco and sign a new contract.
Real Madrid has also ended its interest in Manchester United goalkeeper  David de Gea, according to  Marca, and will stick with Keylor Navas and Kiko Casilla instead.
Mauricio Pochettino will spend the summer trying to hold onto Tottenham’s best players, but he is also aiming to strengthen the team that finished runner-up in the Premier League last season. Borussia Dortmund defender  Matthias Ginter, 23, is on his list of targets,  The Independent says, and he would cost around £15 million.
Southampton defender  Virgil van Dijk is back up for grabs after Liverpool, which was set to pay £60 million for the Dutchman,  released a statement apologizing to the south coast club and ending its interest in him.


The Golden State Warriors beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 118-113 on Wednesday to take a 3-0 stranglehold on the NBA Finals and move to within one game of an unprecedented perfect run through the playoffs.
Kevin Durant scored a team-high 31 points for the Warriors, who improved to 15-0 in the postseason and will get a chance on Friday in Cleveland to become the first team to go unbeaten all the way to a title.
Cleveland had looked like they might prevail when they led by six points with three minutes to play but Durant led the Warriors on an impressive 11-0 run to close out the game.
Durant's pull-up three-pointer over LeBron James with 45 seconds remaining gave the Warriors their first lead since late in the third quarter and silenced what had been a raucous crowd.
"All I was looking at was the bottom of the net," said Durant, a four-times scoring champion playing his first season with Golden State. "I've been working on that shot my whole life."
James led the way for Cleveland with 39 points while Kyrie Irving added 38 in an electrifying performance.
The NBA's best-of-seven championship was billed as the ultimate grudge match between the league's last two champions and some pundits felt it could go down as one of the most hotly-contested series of all-time.
But the top-seeded Warriors are playing at another level and barring a meltdown of epic proportions, will soon be celebrating their second NBA title in three seasons.
There was a scary moment late in the first quarter when James collapsed to the floor after running head-first into the shoulder of teammate Tristan Thompson. The four-times MVP laid on the floor several seconds before being helped up.
 


On Tuesday evening, Scooter Gennett of the Cincinnati Reds did two things he had never before done in 502 previous Major League games: First, the 5-foot-10-inch utility infielder played left field. Second? He smote four home runs.
On most nights in June, at least 30 men play left field in Major League Baseball games. In the 148-year history of the national pastime, only 17 men—including Gennett—have ever hit four home runs in one game. It is a feat rarer than a perfect game, of which there have been 23. “It’s just short of a miracle,” Gennett, who entered the game in the midst of an 0-for-19 slump, told reporters. “It’s surreal, man. It really is.”
In this photo taken Monday night, Gennett hit an RBI double versus the Cardinals.   USA TODAY SPORTS
Baseball’s 162-game season is an epic odyssey as opposed to a sprint. It is Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales, not a spell-binding whodunnit. During a six-month journey there are plenty of side streets along the main boulevard of standings and statistical leaders. Thus, even though the Houston Astros, who have baseball’s best record (42-17), had an 11-game win streak snapped last night by the Kansas City Royals, the unlikely feat of Gennett, who only two months ago was cut by the Milwaukee Brewers, is far more enthralling.
The Reds beat the St. Louis Cardinals 13-1 Tuesday night. Gennett went five-for-five, hitting his four home runs off three Cardinal pitchers and amassing 10 RBI. Batting fifth, he had an RBI single in the bottom of the first inning. The 27 year-old Cincinnati native added a grand slam in the fourth inning, a two-run blast in the fourth, a solo bomb in the sixth, and a second two-run shot in the eighth. His first two home runs each traveled over 400 feet.

Gennett, who entered Tuesday night with three home runs in 111 at-bats this season, joins Hall of Famers such as Lou Gehrig, Willie Mays and Mike Schmidt on the short list of four-homer standouts. In his fifth major league season, he entered Tuesday night’s game with 38 career home runs and only got the start because Monday’s batting practice was rained out, preventing Reds manager Bryan Price from getting injured left fielder Scott Schebler some much-needed cuts before rejoining the lineup. He is the first member of the Reds, a franchise whose origin (1866) predates professional baseball and that counts Pete Rose and Ken Griffey Jr., as alumni, to hit four home runs in one game.
Related: Oregon State baseball is making it rain
The first pro player ever to hit four home runs in a game was second baseman Bobby Lowe of the Boston Beaneaters, who on May 30, 1894 went for the quadruple in a 20-11 win against the Cincinnati Reds. Lowe played 18 seasons but only totaled 71 career home runs. His career dinger total was the lowest of any player to smack four over the fence in one game…until Tuesday night.
Only one week ago, the career .281 hitter made national news, or at least his jersey number did. When former Cincinnati All-Star second baseman Brandon Phillips, now with the Atlanta Braves, learned that the Reds had given his jersey number to an unheralded utility infielder named Scooter Gennett, he groused “I still can’t believe that…someone is wearing my number. I think that’s a slap in my face.… ”
As it turns out, someone with the Reds’ equipment staff may be prescient. The number in question that Phillips ceded to Gennett: 4.
 


Over the past two seasons, the role of chasing pack for the Premier League title has been left solely to Tottenham Hotspur.
In 2016, Mauricio Pochettino’s team trailed Leicester City for the majority of the season but couldn’t keep up the pressure, coming in second, after Arsenal. A year later, Spurs forced  Chelsea to the penultimate game of the season to wrap up the title, but, ultimately, there was no trophy for Pochettino’s men.
His team faces a transitional period with its 2017–18 season home games at Wembley Stadium, while its White Hart Lane arena is demolished and rebuilt next door. As Pochettino prepares for his fourth season in north London,  Newsweek  looks at what he needs to address this summer.
Pochettino’s only concern between the posts will be if one of Europe’s giants looks to lure goalkeeper Hugo Lloris away from Spurs. Lloris has proven to be a world-class goalkeeper, worthy of a Premier League–winning team. His deputy, Michel Vorm, is more than capable to stand in when called upon.
With defenders Toby Alderweireld and Jan Vertonghen at its center, Tottenham Hotspur had the best defense in the Premier League last season. Pochettino also adopted a back-three later in the season, with Eric Dier at the heart. And it is Dier who is believed to be a subject of interest for  Jose Mourinho at Manchester United, and one worth £40 million, according to  The Daily Telegraph.
Like much of the squad, defenders in the first team are of the highest quality, but Spurs may have to look for reinforcements. Kyle Walker’s exit from the club appears inevitable, with Pochettino preferring Kieran Trippier in the latter stage of last season. Manchester City reportedly wants to sign the English right back. So Pochettino will need to be in the market for a fullback to deputize for Trippier, as well as backup to Alderweireld and Vertonghen, who face playing more than 40 games again next season. Southampton’s  Virgil van Dijk is said to have been on that list, and would fit in well as a competent, skillful center back, but Spurs is likely to be priced out of the market as Southampton wants at least £50 million for him.
Related: Mourinho’s bargain, Romelu Lukaku’s decision and Kylian Mbappe is courted in today’s transfer roundup
Much of the noise around Spurs so far this summer has been to do with players heading for the exit. Moussa Sissoko, who signed from Newcastle last summer, called his first year at White Hart Lane the “worst season” of his career. “If I have to leave, I hope they [Spurs] won’t cause a problem,” the Frenchman told  L’Equipe. The concern for Pochettino, however, will be if Barcelona comes in for Christian Eriksen, the Dane who has starred in Spurs midfield since he moved from Ajax in 2013. “Barcelona are a great club, and I do not think there are many who say no to Barcelona,” Eriksen told  Ekstra Bladet.
In terms of incomings, news in Germany that Bayern Munich is willing to sell Renato Sanches and Douglas Costa this summer will spark the interest of Pochettino. The Argentine coach has been on the lookout for a pacy winger—Sissoko was meant to be that man—and Costa would fit that profile. Tottenham is likely to face competition from United, however, for his signature.
Ever since Pochettino took over at Tottenham, he has been searching for a second striker to take the burden of goals from Harry Kane. Pochettino thought Roberto Soldado would be that man, but the Spaniard scored just seven times in two years at the club. Kane has consistently delivered, winning the Premier League Golden Boot last season with 29 goals, as well as providing seven assists. Last summer, he was joined by Vincent Janssen, the 22-year-old Dutch striker, but he has failed to fulfil the expectation in his first year at Spurs; Janssen scored just six goals in 38 appearances for the club.
He is still only 22 and scored twice for Holland on Wednesday night, showing his capability. But Pochettino will need to decide whether to stick or twist on Janssen before the start of the new campaign, with a second striker pivotal to Tottenham breaking its 10-year wait for a major trophy.


Antonio Conte’s first season in English football could have hardly gone better. Chelsea stormed to the Premier League title, qualified for the Champions League and would have done the double had it not lost the FA Cup final to Arsenal.
But  Conte has known for some months that his club will need to work hard this summer to improve the squad and prepare it for the arduous European campaign ahead. And  the Italian wanted to make sure that he was at the center of those preparations.
In March, he  reportedly told Chelsea he wanted to have greater control over transfers if he were to sign a contract extension.  Conte was unhappy at the way experienced first-team players—Oscar, Branislav Ivanovic and John Obi Mikel—were allowed to leave in January. Here,  Newsweek looks at the business of comings and goings expected at Stamford Bridge this summer:
Goalkeeper
Asmir Begovic has already gone through the exit door at Chelsea and through the entrance at the Vitality Stadium, joining Eddie Howe’s Bournemouth and leaving the Londoners in need of a reserve goalkeeper. Eduardo may be that man after signing a one-year extension at the Bridge that may see him fill the role behind Thibaut Courtois, however PSG’s Alphonse Areola has also been  linked with a move to the Bridge.
Courtois, the Belgian goalkeeper who won the Golden Glove award last season, has long been linked with a move to Real Madrid, but the Spanish giant sees Manchester United’s David De Gea as its main target this summer.  Reports in March said the 25-year-old would turn down a move to the Bernabeu if an offer came in anyway.
Defense
Who would have thought a defense with David Luiz at its center could have proved so solid? But it did: Chelsea had the third best back line in the Premier League last season. But Conte is said to be keen to add strength and experience, and at the heart of his defense in particular, with Juventus’ Leonardo Bonucci believed to be a main target.
The club has, of course, said farewell to its captain John Terry, who leaves Chelsea this summer after 22 years at Stamford Bridge, where he won every trophy available. This leaves Conte with Kurt Zouma and Nathan Ake, both 22, as his options outside starters Luiz, Gary Cahill and Cesar Azpilicueta.
One of the defining features of Conte’s team and his first season at Chelsea was his 3-4-3 formation, with two wingbacks. Victor Moses and Marcos Alonso have filled those roles but, due to their importance, Conte will need reinforcements on both sides this summer.
Midfield
The future of Cesc Fabregas remains uncertain. The creative Spaniard was a key figure in Conte’s title-winning team, but his involvement frequently came from the substitutes’ bench. That is unlikely to change next season, leaving the 30-year-old to make a decision on whether to stay or go.
Chelsea is favorite to sign Monaco’s talented center midfielder Tiemoue Bakayoko, according to the  Daily Mail, which says the 22-year-old is valued at around £40 million ($52 million). With the industrious insurance of N’Golo Kante in midfield, Conte can afford to have someone with more license for creativity alongside the PFA Player of the Year. PSG’s talented and creative Marco Verratti is one of the leading contenders to also have been linked with a move to Stamford Bridge.
Attack
Diego Costa: Does he stay or does he go? Costa was meant to be on his way out in January, linked with a move to the Chinese Super League, but a Chelsea player he remained. This summer was expected to be the end, but  Costa has said he would only leave Chelsea for a return to Atletico Madrid; that won’t be happening this summer because the Spanish club is under a transfer ban.
But Conte will recognize that his team was heavily reliant on the 28-year-old’s goals last season, many of them game-winners for the champion. So, the club will be seeking the services of a competent striker to support—or possibly replace—Costa.  Romelu Lukaku could be set to return to Stamford Bridge and, according to  The Times, he wants to. Real Madrid’s speedster  Alvaro Morata, who is also dangerous in the air, is believed to be on Conte’s wanted list, while the club is also monitoring the situation with Alexis Sanchez at Arsenal.
There is a concern among Chelsea fans that  Eden Hazard could be heading for the exit this summer, with Real Madrid potentially paying a world-record fee for the Belgian. But Hazard broke his ankle while in training with the national team this week which is likely to stall any deal with Real.


With just two days to go before English football’s transfer window slides open, news and rumors of comings and goings in the Premier League are rife.
On Friday, June 9, clubs will have an opportunity to improve: right the wrongs of last season by signing a dependable center back to retain  Premier League status; capture that 20-goal-a-season striker who can take you closer to qualifying for the  Champions League; or bring in that playmaker who was the missing link last year.
Record numbers are expected to be spent, but, somehow, some clubs have already begun. On May 27, six days after the final game of the season and two weeks before the window opened,  Manchester City announced the signing of  Bernardo Silva from Monaco, a deal believed to be worth £43.6 million (about $56.6 million).
The club released an  in-house interview with the winger. “It feels great,” he said. “Now, I’m in one of the best teams in the world and to be part of this club and part of this team, I’m very happy.” Five days later, Benfica announced that City had paid £35 million (about $45.2 million) for its goalkeeper Ederson, according to the  BBC.
After his first trophyless season as a manager,  Pep Guardiola has been swift to prepare for the new Premier League season that will begin in August. But, how was he able to spend $110 million before the transfer window even opened?
In a statement sent to  Newsweek , FIFA said: “The registration period concerns the registration of a player for a club. According to art. 6 par. 1 of the Regulations on the Status and Transfer of Players, players may only be registered during one of the two annual registration periods fixed by the relevant association.
“Furthermore, in order for a player to be eligible to participate in organised football for a specific club, he or she must be registered at an association to play for that club (cf. art. 5 par. 1 of the aforementioned Regulations).”
Put simply, a club can sign a player any day of the year it likes. The transfer window only stipulates when a player can be registered to a club.
In the case of Manchester City, the club may have paid more than $110 million for players this summer but, until the paperwork is complete with FIFA, they cannot officially represent the club competitively.
An example of these rules in play was seen in Catalonia in July 2015. Barcelona completed the signing of Arda Turan from Atletico Madrid, in a deal believed to be worth £24 million (about $31 million), but the Turkey international would be unable to play for the club until January 2016.
This was due to the fact Barcelona was under a transfer ban for breaching rules on acquiring players under the age of 18. Even though the ban was in place, the La Liga giant could buy players, it just couldn’t register them.


The burden of signing players at Manchester United this summer will fall solely on the shoulders of CEO Ed Woodward after Jose Mourinho says he is “fed up” of football after an exhausting first year at Old Trafford.
United is expected to have another busy summer when the transfer window opens on June 9, with  Mourinho reportedly giving Woodward a list of four players he wants. Reports have linked the club with strikers  Romelu Lukaku, Alvaro Morata and Antoine Griezmann and defender Victor Lindelof.
Signing for  United has become a more attractive prospect after the club qualified for next season’s Champions League by winning the Europa League in May,  Mourinho’s third trophy of the season, after the League Cup and Charity Shield. And it was after the Europa League final in Stockholm that  Mourinho revealed that Woodward knows the targets he wants.
“Ed Woodward has my list, what I want, what I would like for more than two months,” he told BT Sport. “So now it’s up to him and the owners. But I don’t care about football for now.”
He reiterated the message Tuesday, insisting the signings would be up to Woodward, who became executive vice-chairman at the club in 2012.
Read more:   Mourinho’s bargain, Lukaku’s decision and Mbappe is courted in today’s transfer round-up
“This year, I had the most difficult season of my career,” Mourinho told VLT, as quoted by the  Manchester Evening News. “We played all of the games that were possible minus two.
“I got fed up and tired of football until the last day. I promised that you would not see me in football stadiums, and I stopped negotiating for players and being worried.
“I handed my list to the CEO in April and he has until August 31 to give me what I want, or not.”
If Everton striker Lukaku was on that list, United appears to have had a poor start to the summer after the Belgian chose a move back to Chelsea over joining Mourinho,  The Times reported.
A striker will certainly be on Mourinho’s list as Zlatan Ibrahimovic suffered an injury that will likely see him miss the start of next season. The 35 year old’s contract at United will expire in the summer, though the club said it will continue to support his recovery from injury.
Woodward has delivered top transfers in the past. Last summer, he oversaw the signing of Paul Pogba from Juventus for £90 million (about $116 million) that broke the world transfer record. That summer the club also signed Ibrahimovic, the top scorer last season, as well as Henrikh Mkhitaryan and Eric Bailly.


With just two days to go before the transfer window officially opens in English football, the Premier League’s big players are all in action in the market.
Jose Mourinho has suggested he wants to take a step back from negotiations this summer but, in today’s round-up, the  Manchester United manager is looking to grab a bargain from one of Italy’s biggest clubs.John Terry needs a new home following his departure from  Chelsea after 22 years, and his former club has pipped all its rivals to what could end up being the signing of the summer. Here,  Newsweek gives you all the news and rumors circling in the  Premier League today:
Mourinho is looking to capitalize on Inter Milan’s need to meet Financial Fair Play regulations by making £26 million by June 30, as he looks to sign  Ivan Perisic below market value, according to  Gazzetta dello Sport .  The 28-year-old winger is said to be valued at closer to £45 million.
Another team looking for a bargain today is Bournemouth and its manager Eddie Howe who has been in talks with  John Terry, the former Chelsea captain, about bringing him to the Vitality Stadium,  The Sun says. Brighton and Hove Albion, newly promoted to the Premier League, has withdrawn its interest due to Terry wanting £100,000-a-week in wages, the  London Evening Standard says.
Terry’s former club Chelsea has also had a boost this morning after  The Times reported that  Romelu Lukaku, the Everton striker, wants to rejoin the Premier League champion. The  Belgian striker was the subject of interest for Manchester United but has told his agent Mino Raiola to take him back to Stamford Bridge.
Lukaku’s departure will see Ronald Koeman lose his best player at Goodison Park, but, according to the  Liverpool Echo, the Everton board will give its Dutch coach a record sum to spend this summer.
Real Madrid is looking to snap up Monaco’s 18-year-old star  Kylian Mbappe from Premier League rivals, says  The Independent. But Arsene Wenger, the Arsenal manager, has told the French forward to choose a club where he will play regular football, the  Daily Mail says.
Wenger may also be in danger of losing one of his most talented youngsters this summer.  The Independent reports that Barcelona is willing to offer the London club £45 million for 22-year-old defender  Hector Bellerin.
Manchester United flop  Bebe could be on his way back to English football form Eibar. The Portuguese forward is in talks, the  Daily Mail says, with Championship club Wolves.


On the run-in to the start of the America’s Cup semifinal on Tuesday, New Zealand’s catamaran capsized in spectacular style.
Three members of the crew were thrown overboard in the waters off Bermuda while some were suspended in the hull above the water. When it was all over, all were accounted for, though.
New Zealand was competing in the best-of-nine semifinal against Great Britain, and it still holds a 3-1 lead in the series despite losing on Tuesday.
“In 30 years of racing, I’ve never seen anything like that,” Sir Ben Ainslie, skipper of Britain’s Land Rover BAR boat, said, as quoted by the  BBC.
“All of us sitting here are not going to pass criticism—these boats are incredibly hard to sail and these things can happen.”
In the other semifinal, Japan recorded two more wins over Sweden to take its lead to 3-1 in the series. The first team to reach five in each tie will progress to the challenger final for a chance to take on the American team.
The fifth and sixth races of each semifinal will take place on Wednesday.



Pixie haircuts may be the new rage on the girl's soccer field now that superstar Mia Hamm cheered an 8-year-girl whose Nebraska team was booted from a tournament after officials insisted she was a boy.
U.S. soccer legend Hamm and Olympic soccer gold medalist Abby Wambach launched a Twitter defense of Mili Hernandez, the Omaha, Nebraska girl whose team, Assurri Cachorros Chicos, was disqualified from a Springfield Soccer Club tournament over the weekend.
After a typo on the team roster misidentified the short-haired Hernandez as male, her family told NBC affiliate WOWT News that tournament officials ignored insurance documents produced to prove she is female and instead kicked out the entire team.
"Mili, don't EVER let anyone tell you that you aren't perfect just as you are. I won championships with short hair," Wambach tweeted late on Monday.
Hamm also took to Twitter to invite Hernandez to her TeamFirst Soccer Academy.
"Be you!" Hamm added to the tweet late on Monday.
The club has filed a complaint with the Nebraska State Soccer Association, local media reported.
The Hernandez family could not be reached for comment. Neither Nebraska soccer officials or the Azzuri club immediately responded to requests for comment.
Hernandez told WOWT that she was "not happy" that officials disqualified her team because of her appearance.
"They only did it because I look like a boy," Hernandez told WOWT News in a televised interview.
TeamFirst spokeswoman Cori Boyle told Reuters on Tuesday the academy would consider running a camp in Nebraska if Hernandez is unable to attend any of the other camps currently scheduled in the U.S. Midwest. TeamFirst camps focus on "being yourself, being proud of who you are, being the best you can be, as a person," Boyle said.
She added, "A lot of professional athletes have short hair... I have short hair."


Jurgen Klopp spent much of last season in between Antonio Conte and Pep Guardiola, chasing one and trying to get away from the other. His Liverpool team ended fourth, behind Chelsea and Manchester City.
But, in today’s  transfer round-up of news and rumors, the Liverpool manager looks to have beaten the pair. Conte’s Chelsea and Guardiola’s City are in the market for a center back but Klopp appears to have been the most attractive prospect, and the deal looks likely to break a world record.
Arsene Wenger, meanwhile, has been snapped in his home country of France but is said to be there to wrap up a deal that could break the world transfer record. But other reports say he’s already been beaten by the might of  Real Madrid.
Here,  Newsweek  takes you through all the reports and whispers going round in the transfer market:
Real Madrid center back  Pepe has confirmed he is leaving the Santiago Bernabeu this summer, and the 34-year-old told Spanish radio station Cope that “there are more offers, also from England.”
Virgil van Dijk is close to becoming the world’s most expensive defender, according to the  Daily Mail, as Liverpool is willing to pay £60 million to Southampton for him. Van Dijk, 25, is said to have chosen working with Jurgen Klopp at Liverpool over Chelsea’s Antonio Conte and Manchester City’s Pep Guardiola.
Conte will, instead, look to his former club Juventus and  Leonardo Bonucci as a defensive signing this summer, according to  The Sun. Conte won three Serie A title with the Italian defender during his time with Juventus.
Barcelona’s new head coach  Ernesto Valverde is looking to make Arsenal defender  Hector Bellerin his first signing since taking over at the Camp Nou,  The Mirror says.
But the same  newspaper also believes that Arsene Wenger, the Arsenal manager, is currently busy in Nice, France looking to wrap up signings, in particular for Monaco’s  Kylian Mbappe.
However, the 18-year-old is also being targeted by some of Europe’s biggest clubs, including Real Madrid, which, according to  The Sun, has made a world-record £118 million offer for  Mbappe.
Everton’s  Romelu Lukaku has been the subject of interest for both Chelsea and Manchester United over the past couple of years, but German giant Bayern Munich is looking to sneak in and sign the prolific Belgian, according to the  Manchester Evening News. Lukaku, 24, was the second highest goalscorer in the Premier League last season after Harry Kane, of Spurs.
And it is the north London club, Spurs, which may have concerns this morning about the words of one of its key players.  The Independent has quoted  Christian Eriksen, via  Ekstra Bladet, as saying a move to Barcelona would be tempting.  


For good reason Austria's Dominic Thiem knows he will have to find a new weapon when he takes on defending champion Novak Djokovic for a place in the French Open semi-finals on Tuesday.
The sixth seed's single-handed backhand ranks as one of the best shots in men's tennis but so far it has been feeble against Djokovic who he has scraped one set against in five matches and who thrashed him 6-1 6-0 in the Rome semi-finals.
He was also beaten in straight sets by Djokovic in last year's semi-finals at Roland Garros—his best run at a slam.
"I have to change something compared to the last matches," Thiem, the youngest of the quarter-finalists, said.
"I will talk to my coach, to my team. Then maybe change something up and hope I play a good match."
Second seed Djokovic's progress has been troublesome in comparison, being stretched to five sets by Diego Schwartzman in round three—but the battle-hardened Serb is well-versed in the business end of slams and usually raises his game.
Former champion Mats Wilander thinks 23-year-old Thiem's easy run could actually work against him.
Of course, it's good to have conserved your energy, but for Thiem I think I'd have liked to see him answer a few more questions," the Swede, in Paris as a presenter for Eurosport's daily flagship show "Game, Set and Mats", told Reuters.
"For someone like Thiem it's vital to have energy left. But at the same time when you are standing up against Novak Djokovic it's just a different animal in terms of pressure."


On Sunday, 70,000 fans packed into Old Trafford, the home of Manchester United football club, to see a special reunion.
Former goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar, now director of football at Ajax, returned to the stadium he played at for six years, from 2005 through 2011. Patrice Evra traded the sky blue of Marseille back to the red of United.  Ryan Giggs, Rio Ferdinand and  Paul Scholes took their boots down off the hanger and pulled the club jersey on once again.
The team in red was full of representatives of the  Manchester United team of 2008, the team that won the European Cup and Premier League. Its opposition: Michael Carrick All-Stars, for this day was all about the 35-year-old midfielder; it was his testimonial match.
But what is the point of a testimonial match, and where did the craze in football begin?  Newsweek  takes a look:
At its core, a testimonial is intended to raise a sum of money at the end of a player’s career, having been with a club for a significant period—but it is the recipient of those funds that has changed over the last two decades.
When the idea was formed in the early 1900s—and still to present day in lower leagues—a testimonial was a game played at the end, or nearing the end, of a player’s career. The proceeds from the game would all go to the retiring player to help ease him into retirement. Billy Meredith, of Manchester United, is one of the earliest recorded testimonials having taken place in 1912, but Meredith claimed not to have been given the full amount.
Football is not the only sport to hold testimonials. In 2005, former England rugby captain and World Cup winner Martin Johnson had a testimonial held at Twickenham stadium in London as he retired from the sport.
Even to the turn of the Millennium, the highest paid footballers were still getting a bumper paycheck at the end of their careers. In 2001, a year before he retired as Arsenal’s goalkeeper, 33,297 paid to get into Highbury and watch the testimonial for David Seaman in north London. The match, according to  The Daily Telegraph, saw Seaman receive around £600,000 (about $776,000). Former Sunderland striker Niall Quinn is said to have raised £1 million at his testimonial in 2002. Nowadays, however, players in the Premier League receive such high wages that a new trend has begun—giving the proceeds to charity.
Former Liverpool center back, Jamie Carragher, now a pundit for Sky Sports, held his testimonial at Anfield in 2010, nine years after Seaman’s. He called upon former teammates, such as Michael Owen, Emile Heskey and Jerzy Dudek, to play against an Everton XI. The match at Anfield raised £1 million that went to Carragher’s 23 Foundation, which releases the proceeds to charities within the Liverpool area.
Michael Carrick’s testimonial also saw all funds being donated to charity. But, as with Carrick’s match, the event has also become a celebration of a player’s career with the subject addressing the crowd at the end of the match. On Sunday, as quoted by  The Guardian, Carrick said: “The atmosphere was incredible. There was no way I could have hoped for anything like this. I know we get full houses here every week but it is not something I take for granted and to get so many here today is sensational.”
John Terry and Frank Lampard are the two players synonymous with Chelsea FC over the past two decades but neither player was given a testimonial. Terry and Lampard have won the Premier League, Champions League, FA Cup and League Cup together but there was no match to mark their departures.
In December 2013, the MLS had its first ever testimonial match. Players from the 2006-07 Houston Dynamos squad attended BBVA Compass Stadium in Texas for Brian Ching’s final game for the club. He left the pitch to a cheer of “Thank You Brian.”


Former Newcastle United and Ivory Coast player Cheick Tiote collapsed and died during a training session in China Monday. The 30-year-old was training with the Chinese second-tier side Beijing Enterprises, which he joined just four months ago, when he collapsed and was taken to hospital. He later died after receiving emergency treatment.
After a flood of reports on social media, Tiote’s agent confirmed the news.
“It is with deep sadness that I confirm that my client Cheick Tiote sadly passed away earlier today after collapsing in training with his club Beijing Enterprises,” Emanuele Paladino said, according to Sky Sports News.
“We cannot say any more at the moment and we request that his family's privacy be respected at this difficult time. We ask for all your prayers."
Cheick Tiote agent Emanuele Palladino: &quot;I confirm that my client Cheick Tiote sadly passed away today.&quot; #nufc

Reports have suggested Tiote suffered a heart attack. His wife was said to be expecting a baby this week.
Even more tragically am told Cheick Tioté&#39;s wife is expecting a baby this week #rip

Prior to joining the Chinese club, Tiote spent more than six years at English Premier League side Newcastle, where he established himself as a fan favorite with a series of committed midfield performances. He is best remembered for a stunning long-range goal in February 2011 to complete a famous comeback for Newcastle from 4-0 down to draw 4-4 with Arsenal. It was his first and only goal for the North-East club.
Tiote’s former manager at Newcastle United, Rafa Benitez said: “It is with great sadness that I have this afternoon learned of Cheick's death. In the all the time that I have known him, he was a true professional, dedicated and above all, a great man. Our hearts go out to his family and friends at such a sad time.”
We are devastated to have learnt of the tragic passing of former Newcastle United midfielder Cheick Tioté in China today. #NUFC pic.twitter.com/PCrIEUyugv

Before his stay on Tyneside, Tiote made a name from himself in Europe, first in Belgian with Anderlecht and then more notably in the Netherlands with FC Twente, which he helped to win its first ever league title. After representing Ivory Coast in the 2010 World Cup, he earned a transfer to Newcastle and went on to make almost 150 league appearances.
He also played more than 50 times for his country, including at the 2014 as well as the 2010 World Cup. He was a part of the Ivory Coast team that won the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations.
Some of his former teammates quickly took to social media to express their shock and condolences. 
Gutted to hear the awful news about my former teammate Cheik Tiote today. Thoughts with his friends and family.
Terrible news, R.I.P. Tiote. Always enjoyed sitting next to you in the dressing room my friend.
Ya akhi, narakum fi jannah inshallah.I see you in heaven my brother #rip https://t.co/h32efMsCXc
 
Goodnight brother, You will be missed. My heart goes out to his family. Gone too soon #RIPcheiktiote
 
 
This story has been updated to include further reaction.



Steph Curry starred in the best play of the NBA Finals on Sunday when he slipped past LeBron James to score and ultimately help Golden State Warriors toward a 2-0 lead in the series.
Early in the third quarter at ORACLE Arena in Oakland, Curry picked up the ball but found his route to the basket blocked by James. He dips back, and pivots from side to side before effortlessly slipping past  James to put the Warriors 10 points ahead.
James’ triple-double on Sunday saw him shine once again in the postseason but his Cavaliers still fell to a 132-113 defeat in Game Two, and being beaten by Curry will have added to James’ pain. Take a look here:  



On Sunday, Eden Hazard suggested there was a chance he could finish the summer with the champion of Europe rather than England.
The  Belgian, who starred in  Chelsea’s title-winning campaign this season, was on international duty when he answered questions over his future.
Hazard has been  constantly linked with a move to Real Madrid, and he refused to rule out the transfer, having watched the Spanish giant win the European Cup for successive years on Saturday.
“If you look at the last two season, it looks easy for them,” he said, as quoted by the  Het Laatste Nieuws newspaper. “The Champions League is a particularly difficult competition to win. Real Madrid were stronger than anyone in the last two to three seasons. But that doesn’t mean it’ll be the same in the next five years. The Champions League is a goal for me for next season. I’ve never won it and I’m always trying to improve.”
Asked whether he would consider an offer from  Real Madrid, Hazard said: “Of course I’ll listen. We all have dreams. It could be Spain, it could be staying with Chelsea. I’m good where I am now. I think I can stay at Chelsea for many years. But it’s not something I’m thinking about right now. We’ll see.”
Those words would have troubled Chelsea as it prepares for a summer of speculation over Hazard’s future, with the transfer window open for three months, until September 1. Potential replacements would have been lined up in the event that Hazard did head for the exit at Stamford Bridge, but just hours after his comments on the move, he suffered a fracture to his ankle during a training session.
Hazard, crowned PFA Player of the Year for 2015, is  reportedly back in London and preparing for surgery on Monday, with his recovery set to take two to three months.
According to the  Evening Standard, Real Madrid has cooled its interest in Hazard after the fracture to his ankle, and is looking at Monaco’s  Kylian Mbappe instead.
The 18-year-old is said to be a target for Arsenal this summer but is likely to be trumped by the financial might of Madrid.
Mbappe scored 24 goals in 42 appearances for the Ligue 1 club last season, helping take the team to the semifinals of the Champions League.


After Cleveland Cavaliers slipped further behind in the NBA Finals on Sunday night, LeBron James was in no mood for questions over his team’s tactics.
James, 32, made a triple-double for the  Cavaliers in a spirited performance, but he couldn’t stop Golden State Warriors winning Game Two 132-113 and taking a 2-0 lead in the series.
After the match,  James chose not to attend the post-game press conference and instead spoke to a media scrum. But he wasn’t too pleased with the line of questioning. Take a look:
LeBron James was obviously not in a talking mood after the #Cavs Game 2 loss. #NBAFinals pic.twitter.com/rlsDEHPYRF



Three times Wimbledon champion Novak Djokovic said Sunday he will not change plans or preparations for the tournament next month after an attack in London on Saturday left seven people dead and 48 injured.
A van rammed into pedestrians on London Bridge and three attackers with knifes charged out and stabbed others nearby.
"Everything will progress the same in terms of my plans for Wimbledon and I will try to go there with family, and of course be conscious," Djokovic said at the French Open.
"I think it's always about being conscious of what time of the day or night you go, where do you go, but, you know, it's very unpredictable."
A French national and a Canadian were among those killed. Australia said one of its citizens was among the injured.
Police, who fired about 50 bullets, shot dead the three male assailants in the Borough Market area near London Bridge within eight minutes of receiving the first emergency call shortly after 10 p.m. (2100 GMT).
"It's very disturbing that one of the biggest cities in the world, most important cities in the world, some of the most popular locations in the town suffering these terrorist attacks," said Djokovic.
"So of course it makes you wonder a little bit, makes you question certain things.
"I mean, if we live in fear, you know, that's not life. I also believe that you kind of attract, you know, certain things that when you are, you know, living under stress and fear of everything," he said.
Wimbledon, the year's third grand slam, runs from July 3 to 16.


The standout of today’s Premier League transfer round-up has to be Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool.
Fourth in the table, with Champions League football to prepare for, Klopp’s approach to the transfer market, according to these reports, has reflected his gegenpressing style of play.
The Anfield club is looking to wrap up the signing of a world-class striker, a skillful winger, and sneak in to sign a defensive target of its Premier League rivals.
Arsenal also features heavily as it looks to secure the future of key players, while Leicester City is facing the prospect of its Premier League winning team crumbling apart. Here,  Newsweek  gives you the latest on today’s comings and goings:
Liverpool has had a good start to the week as the club is set to meet the representatives of  Alexandre Lacazette , the prolific Lyon striker, according to the  Daily Express. The club is also still confident about luring Southampton center back  Virgil van Dijk to Anfield, the  Liverpool Echo say, despite Manchester City’s reported £50 million bid.
Klopp’s club is also edging closer to wrapping up a £35 million deal for former Chelsea winger  Mohamed Salah , currently with Italian club Roma, according to the  Daily Mirror.
But Klopp is also having to fend off interest. Juventus, which lost the Champions League final on Saturday, is said to be keen on  Emre Can but Liverpool will offer the German midfielder a new contract, the  Daily Mail say, to secure his future.  
The  Daily Mail is also reporting interest from Juventus in Arsenal goalkeeper  Wojciech Szczesny as the Italian giant looks for a long-term successor to Gianluigi Buffon.  
Arsenal is keen to secure the future of some of its key first-team players, such as Alexis Sanchez and Mesut Ozil, and the club also looks set to keep  Olivier Giroud . According to  ESPN, the French striker wants to remain at the Emirates Stadium to win the Premier League.
Arsene Wenger has tempered fans expectations this summer over incomings at the Emirates,  The Independent say, after claiming there will be no more than three signings at Arsenal.
Across London, champion Chelsea has two concerns about star forward  Eden Hazard this morning. First, he broke his ankle while on duty with Belgium this weekend. Second, that may not be their problem after the 2015 PFA Player of the Year told  FourFourTwo he would consider a move to Champions League winner Real Madrid if an offer came in.
And, finally, the transfer merry-go-round may see Leicester’s title-winning team of last year continue to be torn apart. N’Golo Kante left last summer for Chelsea; Riyad Mahrez says he wants to go during this window; and now, according to the  Daily Express, Everton has settled on  Jamie Vardy as  Romelu Lukaku’s replacement should the Belgian be snapped up, having been linked with Chelsea and Manchester United.


Golden State Warriors head coach Steve Kerr will take charge of the team for the remainder of the NBA Finals, he told reporters on Sunday.
He relinquished his role during the first round of the playoffs in late April due to complications resulting from back surgery two years ago.
Speaking shortly before Game Two against the Cleveland Cavaliers, Kerr said he was feeling somewhat better.
"I wanted to string together a few good days,” he told reporters. “I did that. I’m excited, and it’s good to be back.”
And it will have felt even better when the Warriors took a 2-0 lead in the series after beating the Cavaliers 132-113 in Game Two. 
The Cavaliers produced a significantly improved performance on the first game of the series as LeBron James made a triple-double, the team forced 20 turnovers and 15 steals, and yet it still wasn't enough. 
Victory for Golden State was the team's 14th consecutive win in the playoffs, equaling the longest post-season win streak in the league's history. 
The performances of James, Steph Curry and Kevin Durant, saw the battle for MVP heighten while the championship looks close to being tied up. 
But the biggest cheer from the crowd at the Oracle Arena was saved for Kerr as he returned to the bench for the first time during the post-season. 
 
Steph feeds Livingston with the DIME for the #AssistOfTheNight! pic.twitter.com/fCLYcnTHXg
 


Cristiano Ronaldo struck twice as Real Madrid became the first team to successfully defend their European title in the Champions League era with a 4-1 win over Juventus in Saturday's final for their third triumph in four years.
Real, who now have a record 12 European Cup wins, grabbed the lead in the 20th minute through Ronaldo, who slotted the ball low into the corner after a clever cut-back from Dani Carvajal following a classic counter attack.
But determined Italian champions Juve drew level seven minutes later, with one of the finest goals seen in a Champions League final, as Croatian forward Mario Mandzukic beat Real keeper Keylor Navas with a perfectly executed overhead kick.
The Spanish champions took charge after the break, however, restoring their lead through a deflected long-range shot from Brazilian Casemiro in the 61st minute before Portugal forward Ronaldo struck again, from close-range, after fine work by Luka Modric, to score his 600th goal for club and country.
Juve finished with 10 men after Juan Cuadrado was sent off in the 84th for a second yellow card after pushing Sergio Ramos and in the final minute of normal time substitute Marco Asensio added a fourth after some poor defending from the Italians.


Plans to host Major League Baseball’s regular-season games in Europe have been revived, with a target start date of 2019.
London is likely to be one of the first cities on the continent to host MLB. Last year, talks over hosting a match at the London Stadium, home to the West Ham United football team, fell through, but London Mayor Sadiq Khan met with MLB commissioner Rob Manfred in September to discuss the idea further.
A Baseball Battleground event, organized by MLB, will be held in London’s iconic Hyde Park on July 4. Representatives of the Boston Red Sox and Los Angeles Dodgers will compete in a home-run derby.
London has already  hosted sporting events from the States, such as American football and  NBA at Wembley Stadium and the O2 Arena.
MLB has already presented regular season matches in other parts of the world, with Australia, Japan and Mexico hosting games. Manfred is keen to add the English capital to the list.
“It is something we would really like to do in 2019,” he said, as quoted by  The Guardian. “We do think it’s time, whether it’s 2019 or shortly thereafter, that we play in Europe.”
Charlie Hill, the managing director of MLB Europe, said the event in Hyde Park next month represented the “statement of intent to grow Major League Baseball” across the continent.
“Hyde Park is the perfect location to bring a flavor of our game to London, with two of the most popular teams in the sport—the Red Sox and the Dodgers—set to provide a night of big hitting,” he said.


When manager David Moyes stepped out of the Stamford Bridge dugout in the last game of the Premier League season, his Sunderland team beaten 5-1 by Chelsea and already well relegated from the division, he had a message for the club’s fans.
“We have to give them the positives and aim to get back [to the Premier League] as quickly as we can,” he told the  BBC. Moyes resigned hours later, but the words he had spoken reflected the club’s feeling.
Sunderland, like every other team in English football, is desperate to be in the  Premier League. Sure, for the prestige of playing against the likes of  Manchester United and Liverpool, but more importantly, for the lucrative position it gives the players.
Moyes’s Sunderland dropped down to the second tier after just six wins from 38 games, conceding 69 goals along the way. And yet, the club bows out with $120 million in prize money payments, according to  sportingintelligence.com.
That figure is made up of “merit” for where the team finishes, “facility fees” for live games shown on TV in the U.K. and shares of the domestic and overseas TV deals, plus commercial income from Premier League sponsors.
According to  sportingintelligence.com, this sees Sunderland awarded more money than the winners in the German (Bayern Munich), French (Monaco) and Italian (Juventus) leagues.
A total of $3.09 billion was awarded across the Premier League. At the top, champion Chelsea was awarded just over $194 million for winning the domestic title. Manchester City was second with $190 million, and Liverpool third with $189 million.
Those great sums of money come from Sky and BT Sport, paying £5.136 billion (about $6.62 billion) between them to show Premier League matches in a deal lasting between 2016 and 2019. According to the report, another £3 billion ($3.87 billion) is made through foreign broadcasters.
 
Sunderland&#39;s £93.5m for finishing LAST in the Premier League is about 5 times the prize cash in Scotland&#39;s Premiership. All of it combined. pic.twitter.com/P77puR7vX4
 



The 24-time Grand Slam winner Margaret Court believes a “conspiracy” by the “U.S. gay lobby” is aiming to strip her name from one of the courts at Melbourne Park, home of the Australian Open.
Martina Navratilova, an 18-time major winner,  renewed the call for renaming the Margaret Court Arena on Thursday after saying the Australian’s comments were “racist and homophobic.”
Speaking to a Christian radio station the day before, Court said “tennis is full of lesbians” and that she believes transgender children are the work of “the devil.”
But Court believes the backlash to her comments is part of a conspiracy. “They have a lot of money behind them,” the 74-year-old told 3AW radio. “I think I’ve won more Grand Slams than any man or woman, and if [the stadium] is [renamed], I don’t believe I deserve it.
“They could probably get 100,000 petitions in 24 hours because that's how they work. There's a lot of money behind it, and it's coming from America.”
Asked about a possible conspiracy, Court added: “Yes, I believe there is… I think the [gay] lobby, yeah.”
Controversy surrounding the tennis great began in March, when she said she would boycott the Qantas airline “where possible” due to its support of same-sex marriage.
Navratilova responded to Court’s comments through a letter in  The Sydney Morning Herald. The Czech-American said she had forgiven Court for comments she made in 1990, when she said Navratilova was a bad role model due to her homosexuality. Navratilova added that she had been unaware of Court’s remarks about the apartheid regime in South Africa.
“South Africa has the racial situation rather better organized than anyone else, certainly much better than the United States,” the Australian said in 1970, according to the  BBC.
“It is now clear exactly who Court is: an amazing tennis player, and a racist and a homophobe,” Navratilova wrote. “Her vitriol is not just an opinion. She is actively trying to keep LGBT people from getting equal rights (note to Court: we are human beings, too). She is demonising trans kids and trans adults everywhere.”
World No.1 Andy Murray also has criticized Court’s comments and said an effort to change the name of the venue should be made in the lead-up to the next Australian Open in January.


On Wednesday, at the Court Suzanne Lenglen, Roland Garros, Ons Jabeur made history.
After beating world No. 6 Dominika Cibulkova 6-4, 6-3 at the  French Open on Wednesday, Jabeur held the Tunisian flag aloft in celebration: She had become not only the first woman from  Tunisia to make it to the third round of a Grand Slam tournament, but also the first Arab woman.
“It feels like history, of course,” Jabeur said, as quoted by  The New York Times. “But me, I like to just stay focused on the victory so I can continue to make history even more. For me, it’s not over. It’s the beginning of my dream.”
Selima Sfar, retired Tunisian player and mentor to Jabeur, is the only Arab woman to ever reach the top 100. She said: “The first emotion that awakened in me was overwhelming, tears came straight to me eyes. In a way, I feel like Ons gave meaning to whatever sacrifices I made, or difficult times I had through my journey to make it happen.”
Sfar used the words of Billie Jean King to show the impact that Jabeur’s win could have. “I love this sentence: ‘You have to see it to be it,’” she said. “And it’s really important for all the Arab countries, because we know how is the image of women in Arab countries and everything. So, if girls grow up now, they can see more and more women who did it. And they can think, ‘What is possible?’ That belief is enough to do something.”  
Jabeur said: “Well, when I win, I’m like, ‘Yeah, I represent the Arab world.’ When I lose, I try to be just Ons Jabeur.”
Newsweek  takes a look at Jabeur’s rise through the tennis world:
Age?  Born on August 28, 1994, Jabeur is 22 years old.
Where is she from?  Tunis, the capital of Tunisia. But Jabeur is based in Paris and trains in Slovakia due to the high altitude.
When did she turn professional?  2010, aged 15.
Ranking?  Wednesday’s win lifted Jabeur to No. 114 in the world. A win in the next round would lift her into the top 100.
Favored surface?  She has performed best on clay, as seen this week.
Best tournaments?  As a talented junior, she reached the girls’ final in 2010, aged 15, and then won it a year later. Here, she became the first North African woman to win a Grand Slam in any category.
Other notable appearances?  Jabeur represented Tunisia at both the 2012 and 2016 Olympic Games, but didn’t make it past the first round. She also reached the first round of the U.S. Open in 2014 and the first round of the Australian Open a year later.
Who will she face in the third round?  Timea Bacsinszky, the world No. 31, of Switzerland, on Friday.



NBA commissioner Adam Silver is frustrated by a lack of Chinese players in an otherwise highly international league and is committed to ensuring the basketball-loving Asian nation has greater representation in the United States. 
"It frustrates me that there are no Chinese players in the NBA right now," he told reporters prior to Game One of the NBA Finals in Oakland on Thursday.
"There's probably more basketball being played in China than anywhere else in the world. And more NBA basketball is being watched in China than anywhere else in the world," he said.
While there are currently no Chinese players in the NBA, two were selected in last year's draft: Zhou Qi by the Houston Rockets and Wang Zhelin by the Memphis Grizzlies.
Silver said he was consulting with retired eight-time NBA All-Star Yao Ming, now the head of the Chinese Basketball Association (CBA), who he said was committed to seeing China excel at the Olympics, World Cup of Basketball and the NBA. 
"One of the things that we have worked on with Yao is the creation of academies in China," Silver added. 
"So we can bring together some of the best players at a young age, they can compete against each other, they can compete internationally in the summer, because ultimately that's what enables them to become NBA players."
Silver added that it made little sense a country of 1.3 billion should have no representation in the NBA while nations with a fraction of the population, like Lithuania, Serbia and Latvia, each provided several players. 
"We need to increase the pool of top-notch Chinese players," Silver said. "I think it will have a great impact on our league, and I think it will be good for Chinese basketball as well."


The suggestion from Arsenal after Arsene Wenger signed a two-year extension to his contract was that there would be some changes at the Emirates Stadium.
An incoming director of football was a possibility, a youthful coach to learn and, eventually, succeed  Wenger was also among the considerations. But it is in the transfer market that Wenger has been told to change, to be more assertive.
In today’s round-up of the comings and goings in Premier League football, there are certainly noises that he is doing that. Elsewhere,  Jose Mourinho looks to other striking options after “cooling” interest in Antoine Griezmann, and Bayern Munich’s players are acting as recruiters at the Allianz Arena.
Here,  Newsweek  takes you through all the news and rumors circling English football on Friday morning:
And where better to start than Arsenal’s world-record £87 million (about $112 million) bid for Monaco’s outstanding 18-year-old forward  Kylian Mbappe.  L’Equipe in France claims Wenger’s club has already made an offer for the young sensation who lit up the Champions League and scored 26 goals for Monaco last season.
Further good news for Arsenal fans comes from  The Sun, which says  Mesut Ozil will be signing a new contract at the Emirates, worth £280,000-a-week (about $360,000).
But the club’s other leading player,  Alexis Sanchez, could be on his way out of north London if his fellow Chilean international Arturo Vidal has anything to do with it. In the  Evening Standard, Vidal, the Bayern Munich midfielder, is quoted as telling Sanchez to abandon Arsenal and join him at a “big team.”
After the news that  Manchester United’s pursuit of Griezmann has cooled, Mourinho has turned his attention to securing the services of Werder Bremen striker  Max Kruse, according to  Goal.com. But Everton’s  Romelu Lukaku also remains on the list of targets, the  Daily Express say, as United seeks a replacement for the injured Zlatan Ibrahimovic.
Mourinho is also said to be prepared to offer £50 million (about $64 million) for  Alexandre Lacazette , an Arsenal target a year ago who scored 37 goals last season,  The Mirror says. The 26-year-old currently plays for Lyon in Ligue 1.
Chelsea is edging closer to beating Manchester United to the signing of Monaco midfielder  Tiemoue Bakayoko , according to the  Daily Mail. The French club values Bakayoko, 22, at £43 million (about $55 million) but the report says Monaco are keen on taking Chelsea forward  Michy Batshuayi as part of the deal.
Reports on Thursday suggested Manchester City would blow out all other competition in the pursuit of Southampton’s  Virgil van Dijk, offering £50 million (about $64 million) as a transfer fee and £180,000-a-week (about $232,000) in wages. However, the  Liverpool Echo says that Jurgen Klopp’s team has not given up hope that the Dutch center-back will snub the lucrative deal to join him at Anfield. But, according to  The Sun, Southampton is looking to get £70 million for him this summer, a world-record fee for a defender.
Liverpool has also made an offer for former Chelsea winger  Mohamed Salah, according to  Gazzetta dello Sport, which has been accepted by Roma. The Italian giant has asked for a fee of £30.4 million (about $39 million).


Kevin Durant scored a game-high 38 points and Stephen Curry hit six three-pointers as the Golden State Warriors cruised to a lopsided 113-91 win in the first game of the NBA Finals on Thursday. 
The highly anticipated meeting between the defending champion Cavaliers and the top-seeded Warriors did not disappoint initially, with sensational dunks by LeBron James and Durant during a see-sawing first quarter.
But the wheels came off quickly for the visiting Cavaliers in the second half, with Durant sinking a three-pointer and Warriors center Zaza Pachulia hitting a lay-up on their way to a 10-0 run.
The final outcome was all but a formality by the start of the fourth quarter as the Warriors forged 21 points ahead. 
The Warriors, who had not played in nine days, were rusty at the outset, missing shots close to the basket and looking anxious when they had possession.
"Our first half was sloppy on the offensive end, we were missing a lot of lay-ups," said Curry.
"A little gun shy with our shots. But our defense allowed us to create some momentum until we got our flow."
But the Cavaliers hurt themselves with 20 turnovers, tying an NBA record for a playoff or Finals game.
The Warriors, meanwhile, committed just four, tying the record for the fewest in a Finals game.
The Warriors and Cavaliers are meeting in their third consecutive Finals, a matchup many predicted when the season began after Golden State signed Durant in a blockbuster move.
The Warriors won the 2015 championship but let a 3-1 lead slip last year as James's Cavaliers finally brought the Larry O'Brien trophy back to Ohio.
The Warriors know better than to relax against James and their rivals, Durant said.
"We’re playing a great team, we're playing the champs. You know they’re not going to give up at all," he said on court. 
The Warriors improved their postseason record to an unprecedented 13-0 while the Cavaliers suffered just their second loss since the playoffs began in mid-April.
"It wasn't just the third quarter, it was the whole game," James, who gave up eight turnovers, told reporters after the Cavaliers were outscored by 13 points in the period.
"It started with myself having some turnovers, especially in the first half. I pride myself on not turning the ball over and I did it too much."
When asked what was different about the Warriors compared to their two previous Finals, James was succinct. 
"K.D.," he said, referring to Durant. 
"We got to figure out how to combat that, which is going to be a tough challenge for us," he said.
The teams will meet again in Oakland on Sunday for Game Two of the best-of-seven series.


What streams may come.
Speaking at the Recode Conference in Southern California on Wednesday, Bill Simmons, the godfather of sports blogging and the podfather of sports podcasting, opined that technology companies soon will hold the rights to major sporting events. “I think it’s going to be Amazon, Netflix, Google and Facebook deciding everything,” said the CEO of The Ringer, a sports and pop culture website whose first anniversary is today (June 1). “Including what we’re wearing, in like five years.”
Related: Is ESPN crawling toward extinction?
Simmons, 47, has become a nexus of schadenfruede for sport and media writers in the past couple of years, following the failure of his HBO show, Any Given Wednesday, and his unceremonious exodus from ESPN. His petulant streak is no secret in the industry. When CNBC’s Julia Boorstin, who interviewed him at Recode, mentioned that he had been fired by ESPN, he interjected: “I was not fired! Yeah, I was not fired. I don’t know how that got started that I got fired. They decided not to renew my contract.”
Nevertheless, Simmons also has a well-deserved reputation as a visionary or, as they say in Silicon Valley, an "early adopter." He launched his sports blog, Boston Sports Guy, on an AOL account in the mid-1990s and it became the snowflake that incited the avalanche of sports blogging that has crushed traditional sports media. His podcast just celebrated its 10th anniversary, and how many media personalities can say they were doing podcasts a decade ago?
Hence, when Simmons declares that traditional broadcasters such as CBS, NBC, Fox and ABC/ESPN will one day forfeit the rights to the Super Bowl, the NBA Finals and the World Series to Silicon Valley, it is worth exploring the merits of that statement. The traditional broadcast networks are all subsidiaries of larger, monolithic corporations. NBC, for example, is an arm of General Electric and ABC/ESPN is part of Disney. Those networks are not autonomous, being beholden to higher corporate structures and budgets.
ABC/ESPN and TNT have exclusive rights to the NBA Finals through 2025, but then what?   USA TODAY SPORTS
The four tech companies that Simmons mentioned are all independent, and they are among the fastest-growing businesses on the planet. Google (a.k.a. Alphabet), Amazon and Facebook are among the top six U.S. companies in terms of market capitalization (none were in the top 10 a decade ago). All three companies have more liquid assets than General Electric or Disney (or Fox’s NewsCorp or CBS’s parent company, Viacom), and all are anxious to expand their footprints in terms of providing content. “I just think [the tech goliaths] are going to be the sports rights people because they’re going to have so much money,” Simmons said.
ABC/ESPN’s currents NFL rights package extends through 2021 at a cost of $1.9 billion per year. CBS, Fox and NBC all have rights packages with the NFL through 2022. ABC/ESPN and Turner Sports (i.e., TNT) pay the NBA a combined $2.6 billion per year in a deal that runs through 2025. By the time those contracts are up for renewal, it is anyone’s guess how much more prevalent tech companies such as Amazon, Google, etc., will have become in consumers’ lives.
Netflix, which is not even 20 years old, has seen shares of its stock soar a multiple of 32 times in the past five years alone. It is now a $70 billion company. “Look at what Netflix did with stand-up comedy,” said Simmons. “They were just like, ‘Hey, we like stand-up comedy. We’re just buying it. We’re buying everybody. We’re getting every single stand-up comedian.’ And they just did it. Eventually, they’re going to look at the NBA or the NFL and say, ‘Hey, we like the NFL. We’re just buying it.’”
Boorstin asked Simmons if he thought it was good or bad for consumers, this encroachment of tech companies using streaming services to air the most popular sporting events in the United States. “As long as it’s part of my Amazon Prime,” replied Simmons, “I don’t care.”


Manchester United’s long-drawn out flirtation with signing Antoine Griezmann has come to a sudden halt, according to reports, but the club seems to have wrapped up one signing this summer.
Griezmann, of Atletico Madrid, has a buy-out clause of £86 million ($111 million) that  Manchester United was expected to activate this summer. The 26-year-old forward has spoken out about the move himself, giving it a “six out of 10” chance of happening.
But widespread reports on Thursday, including from the BBC, suggest Griezmann is no longer a priority for  Mourinho as he aims to replace the Zlatan Ibrahimovic instead.
Ibrahimovic, the club’s top scorer this season, suffered a long-term injury in the closing weeks of the season but his contract at Old Trafford expires on June 30.
The club will now turn its attention to signing a main striker rather than a number 10, the position Griezmann holds, the report says.
At the other end of the field, however,  United looks to have signed a target of Mourinho’s in January. According to Portuguese newspaper  Record, the Premier League club will pay up to £35 million ($45 million) for Victor Lindelof, the Sweden international.
The 23-year-old center back had been linked with Spain’s top two clubs, Real Madrid and Barcelona, as well as Newcastle, which was promoted to the Premier League last month.
Lindelof signed a long-term deal at Benfica earlier in the season but that wouldn’t scupper the move to United. The transfer window officially opens on June 9.


The 2017 NBA Finals, which begin at Oracle Arena in Oakland, California, Friday, will be LeBron James’s seventh in a row.
Even during an  NBA era lacking parity—partly thanks to the talents of the likes of James, and Golden State Warriors’  Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant —32-year-old James’s consistency stands out.
On the eve of another Finals appearance, here’s how “King James” has fared since his debut a decade ago.
A 22-year-old James, in his fourth NBA season, went to the Finals for the first time. The Cavaliers, in a first-ever appearance in a NBA Finals series, ran into a brick wall in the form of the San Antonio Spurs, though. MVP Tony Parker averaged 24.5 points per game, while James could only manage 22 ppg, as the Spurs swept the series.
James wouldn’t get back to the Finals until the season of “The Decision,” when he teamed up with Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh at the Miami Heat. James had moved to South Beach to win a title but he would still have to wait for that. This time is was Dirk Nowitzki as MVP who usurped him, as the Dallas Mavericks defeated the Heat in six games. James averaged 17.8 ppg to finish third on the Heat in scoring.
James only had to wait a year for his first title. The Heat faced the Western Conference champion Oklahoma City Thunder following a classic seven-game series against the Boston Celtic in the Eastern Conference Finals. James exploded in scoring with 28.6 ppg and was crowned MVP as the Heat took the series in five games.
In a seven-game classic, James gained a measure of revenge for six years previous. He put up 25.3 ppg as the Heat defeated the Spurs four games to three, and was named MVP again. James’s game seven performance may be the finest of his career, with 37 points and 12 rebounds.
The Spurs took revenge and then some, in one of the most lopsided statistical Finals in history. Kawhi Leonard was MVP and James’s fine individual performance—28.2 ppg, leading the Heat in minutes—could not prevent a 4-1 series defeat.
After four seasons with the Heat, James returned to Cleveland and sure enough, the historically bad Cavaliers began winning again. However, they were not yet good enough to win a championship. James averaged 35.8 ppg and led both teams in points, assists and rebounds. But with Kevin Love and Kyrie Irving both missing significant chunks of the series, Cleveland lost a 2-1 lead in the series. Andre Iguodala was Finals MVP, mostly for guarding James.
For the third time in his playing days there, J ames took Cleveland to the Finals and this time brought home the title. Everything seemed lost after the Warriors took a 3-1 series lead. But James dragged the Cavaliers back from the brink to win the seven-game series, averaging 29.7 ppg as he was named Finals MVP again.


Finally, after a full week without professional basketball—ESPN was thisclose to launching another Stephen A. Smith show titled Pardon The Intermission—the NBA Finals will commence Thursday night in Oakland. For the third consecutive year, it will be the Cleveland Cavaliers facing the Golden State Warriors.
Who will win is at best an educated guess (Las Vegas likes the Dubs), but what is certain is that in this trilogy, the past is not prologue. The Warriors defeated Cleveland in six games in 2015, but the Cavaliers were without Kevin Love (dislocated shoulder) the entire series and lost Kyrie Irving (fractured kneecap) in overtime of Game 1 at Oracle Arena. He would miss the remainder of the series. Minus his two All-Star sidekicks, LeBron James would average nearly 36 points and more than 13 rebounds per game, but the Warriors won the final three games and the series.
Irving's presence in last year's NBA Finals made a huge difference for the Cavs   USA TODAY SPORTS
Last year, the situation was nearly reversed. After taking a 3-1 series lead, Golden State lost forward Draymond Green to a one-game suspension (multiple technical fouls) in Game 5, and then center Andrew Bogut to injury in Games 6 and 7. As the Warriors had done the previous year, Cleveland capitalized on the absence of two injured Golden State starters and won the final three games of the Finals.
(An aside: the NHL, NFL and Major League Baseball each have one instance of two teams meeting for the championship three consecutive years: Detroit and Montreal, 1954-1956, in hockey; Detroit and Cleveland, 1952-1954, in football; the New York Giants and Yankees, 1921-1923, in baseball. For the NBA, though, this is unprecedented.)
This year? The Warriors are undefeated in the playoffs, at 12-0, but they were trailing by 25 points at home in the second half to San Antonio in Game 1 of the Western Conference finals before the west’s LeBron James doppelganger, Spurs forward Kawhi Leonard, suffered an ankle injury. Leonard was lost for the remainder of the series. Would the Warriors be playing tonight if Leonard had not gotten hurt? No one will ever know, but probably nobody along San Antonio’s Riverwalk believes so.
Curry is pacing the Warriors this postseason with a 28.6 points per game average   USA TODAY SPORTS
Cleveland has been more mercurial than the Warriors this spring. The Cavs destroyed the Boston Celtics by 44 points in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference finals, then lost two days later after squandering a 21-point third-quarter lead. It was their only loss of the postseason, making the two teams’ combined records during these playoffs 24-1 (which, coincidentally, was Golden State’s record over the first 25 games of last season and is their record in their past 25 games).
Is there anything to glean from such overwhelming dominance by both franchises this postseason? The Warriors failed to match or even eclipse last season’s record-breaking 73-9 record, but they added Kevin Durant, one of, at worst, the NBA’s five best players. The Cavaliers also failed to win as many regular season games as they did a year ago, but for them, as with the Dubs, the playoffs thus far have been akin to Usain Bolt’s qualifying heats. These are two teams that have been waiting all spring, with the exception of a fully healthy Spurs squad, for someone to test them.
Will the acquisition of Kevin Durant give the Warriors that tiny extra edge over Cleveland?   USA TODAY SPORTS
Last June, in the closing moments of Game 7, LeBron made a career-defining block from behind on Andre Iguodala (2015 NBA Finals MVP), Irving drained the go-ahead three and Curry attempted and failed to break down the seven-footer Love off the dribble for a potential game-tying bucket. The Cavs won, 93-89.
This June? Golden State has added 2014 NBA MVP Durant, so at tipoff on Thursday seven of the past eight MVP awards (with the exception of Derrick Rose, 2011) will be represented on the court in the persons of James, Stephen Curry and Durant. It will mark the first time since 1983 that three former MVPs (Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Julius Erving and Moses Malone) will appear in the same NBA Finals. The Warriors have barely been tested these playoffs, they have superior shooting from beyond the arc and they also have home-court advantage.
Related: LeBron versus Jordan is an avocado toast argument
The pick here, however, is Cleveland. In game-, series- and even career-defining moments, they have in Irving and James two of the best closers the NBA Finals has seen. Last Christmas Day, Cleveland trailed Golden State by 14 in the fourth quarter, but came back to win. There is a sense, and it is little more than that, that the Dubs are the more proficient team but also the softer one...which, granted, is a remarkable thing to say about a club that has won 24 of its past 25 games.
This is a legacy series: two outstanding franchises with at least two future Hall of Famers per side who each have won an NBA Finals when the opponent was at less than full strength. Assuming that neither team is victimized by injury this next fortnight, this should be the series between Cleveland and Golden State that will be most vividly remembered. It’s difficult to believe that in a Finals with that much at stake, LeBron James will not succeed. Stephen Curry may be the best shooter the NBA has ever seen, but LeBron James is its toughest competitor since Michael Jordan.
Cavaliers in seven. Again.


Martina Navratilova, the 18-time tennis Grand Slam champion, has penned an open letter calling for the renaming of the Margaret Court Arena at Melbourne Park after the Australian’s “racist and homophobic” comments.
Navratilova’s letter comes after Court, a former world No.1, said she would boycott Qantas airline “where possible” due to its support of same-sex marriage. “I believe in marriage as a union between a man and a woman as stated in the Bible,” Court, 74, said in March, as quoted by  The Guardian.
On Wednesday, speaking to a Christian radio station, Court said "tennis is full of lesbians" and that she believed transgender children are the work of "the devil." 
Melbourne Park is the venue the Australian Open every January.
Navratilova opted to respond through a letter in  The Sydney Morning Herald, where she wrote: “We celebrate free speech, but that doesn't mean it is free of consequences—not punishment, but consequences.
“We should not be celebrating this kind of behaviour, this kind of philosophy. The platform people like Margaret Court use needs to be made smaller, not bigger.”
Navratilova said she had forgiven Court, who has 24 Grand Slam titles, for comments she made in 1990, when she said the Czech-American was a bad role model due to her homosexuality. But Navratilova went on to explain that she was unaware of Court’s remarks about the apartheid regime in South Africa.
“South Africa has the racial situation rather better organized than anyone else, certainly much better than the United States,” the Australian said in 1970, according to the  BBC.
“It is now clear exactly who Court is: an amazing tennis player, and a racist and a homophobe,” Navratilova wrote. “Her vitriol is not just an opinion. She is actively trying to keep LGBT people from getting equal rights (note to Court: we are human beings, too). She is demonising trans kids and trans adults everywhere.”
On Wednesday, men’s world No.1 Andy Murray also questioned Court’s views. “I don’t see why anyone has a problem with two people who love each other getting married,” he said, as quoted by  The Times.
But Murray also believes an effort to change the name of the venue should be made in the lead up to next year’s Australian Open.
Navratilova finished her letter by suggesting the venue in Melbourne be renamed as the Evonne Goolagong Arena, a 14-time Grand Slam winner of Aboriginal descent, adding: “Now there is a person we can all celebrate. On every level.”


Manchester United finds itself at the center of transfer rumors again as June begins and the opening of the summer window draws nearer.
United has rejected a huge bid from Real Madrid for goalkeeper David De Gea worth £60 million, according to  Sky Sports News.
De Gea, 26, came to United from Real’s rival Atletico Madrid in the summer of 2011 but has been frequently linked with a move to the Santiago Bernabeu stadium.
Sky claims United rejected another offer from Real this week but the  Manchester Evening News says there has been no bid and the Spain international is happy to remain at Old Trafford on a contract that runs until 2019.
Away from De Gea, Mourinho continues to work on signing a new striker. According to Italian journalist  Gianluca Di Marzio, he has whittled his options down to three targets: A.S. Monaco’s Kylian Mbappe, Real’s Alvaro Morata and the man who remains the priority, Atletico’s Antoine Griezmann.
Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp, meanwhile, is in need of a new left back. As is Pep Guardiola at Manchester City. Naturally — according to  ESPN anyway — both are interested in one of Europe’s best in the position this season, Monaco’s Benjamin Mendy. Klopp played James Milner out of position at left back for much of last season while Guardiola’s City struggled with an ageing Gael Clichy in the same position. The dynamic, attacking Mendy would improve both although City’s financial largesse, combined with the presence of Mendy’s former Monaco teammate Bernardo Silva at Etihad Stadium, may give it the edge.
If reports are to be believed, City and Liverpool are going to be duking it out all summer over defensive transfer targets.  The Times claims City is preparing a vast, £100 million offer for Southampton defender Virgil Van Dijk comprised of a £50 million transfer fee and £180,000 a week in wages, which would almost certainly be enough to end Liverpool’s interest in the center back.


Little more than a week since Jose Mourinho returned Manchester United to Europe’s top table, he has been given a warning for next season by one of the club’s most iconic figures.
Sir Alex Ferguson, who won 38 trophies in 26 years as manager at Old Trafford, says  United has a duty to entertain while playing in the Champions League.  Mourinho’s team finished sixth in the Premier League but qualified for next season’s competition by winning the  Europa League.
Ferguson, 75, says European football has changed. “The counter attack has become more prominent today; the condition of pitches is superb today; and also the protection of footballers has become more prevalent,” he told  UEFA.com. “So a lot of these things add up to what you're seeing as a far better spectacle.
“I think you have a duty and a responsibility to entertain. We have to always remember that there's a public to be entertained. In my time at United, it was ‘as long as you win.’ If it was 4-3, OK, or 5-4, OK. My last game was 5-5 (at West Brom in 2013). I couldn't ask for a better score in my last game at United.”
Although  Mourinho won three trophies—the Charity Shield, League Cup and Europa League — in his first season at Old Trafford, the style of football was widely criticized. United recorded 15 draws in 38 league matches last season, the most of any Premier League team.
“They don’t get you on the edge of your seat,” Graeme Souness said last month while working as a pundit for Sky Sports. And Mourinho’s tactics have been criticized at each of the clubs he has coached.
The Portuguese manager famously brought the phrase “parking the bus”—referring to defensive-minded football—during his first stint as Chelsea manager from 2004 through 2007, but it has also been used against him.  
When Mourinho’s Chelsea sat deep against league leader Liverpool in 2014 and then grabbed a late winner, Brendan Rodgers, then manager at Anfield, said Mourinho had “parked two busses.”
But that won’t be an option for him in the Champions League at Manchester United next season, as Ferguson continues to watch from the stands, expecting to be entertained.


For a glorious while there it seemed Groundhog Summer in the transfer window could be averted.
David De Gea didn’t play in the  Europa League final against Ajax on May 24 in Stockholm, Manchester United’s most important game of the season. Amid strong reports of heavy interest from Real Madrid, one of the world’s top three goalkeepers seemed to be finally on his way to the Spanish capital.
Or not.  The Guardian claims United has “no intention” of selling De Gea, 26, on the basis the club will not sell players it wishes to keep.
That seems logical, as does avoiding the onerous result of selling De Gea. José Mourinho would have to spend around £50 million on a replacement, who might not be quite as good as the Spanish international.
Unless De Gea rocks the good ship United—and the suggestion is he won’t do that—then United, swimming in television money and sponsorship revenue, has no need to let him go.
As in 2015, when only slow faxes prevented him from moving to Real, and in 2016, when Spanish radio station  Cadena Cope claimed Mourinho had blocked another prospective transfer to La Liga, it seems De Gea is going to stay at Old Trafford.
“It's the same thing every day, clean up your room, stand up straight, pick up your feet, take it like a man, be nice to your sister, don't mix beer and wine ever, oh yeah, don't drive on the railroad tracks,” said Bill Murray as Phil Connors in  Groundhog Day .
He might have added, dally with Real Madrid every season before you realize that Old Trafford isn’t so bad, after all.


The summer transfer window may be yet to open, but the rumor mill is already spinning.
Officially, clubs are able to buy and sell from June 9 but some deals are already done, with Bernardo Silva set to join Manchester City for £43.6 million (about $55.8 million).
Here,  Newsweek  looks at the latest rumors on who could be going where and who’s staying put:
Manchester United’s hope of signing Atletico Madrid forward Antoine Griezmann got a boost after the Frenchman told the La Liga club Tuesday that he wants to leave this summer, according to  Cadena Cope. Griezmann, 26, is expected to cost Jose Mourinho’s team a world-record sum should he join.
Reports have also linked Mourinho with a move for Paris Saint-Germain’s Blaise Matuidi, and the French midfielder said PSG has made him an offer to stay but he doesn’t know whether he will take it, according to  The Independent.
After the Arsenal board  reportedly told Arsene Wenger to be more assertive in the transfer market when he signed a new two-year contract Tuesday,  the club is being linked with a handful of players.
The London side has struck a deal with Belgian club Eupen for 19-year-old Nigerian forward Henry Onyekuru worth £6.8 million (about $8.7 million), according to the  Daily Mail. Wenger is also keen on Riyad Mahrez after the Algerian forward told Leicester City he wanted to leave, reported the  Daily Mirror, and he has his eye on AC Milan striker Carlos Bacca and Monaco’s 21-year-old midfielder Thomas Lemar.
While Diego Costa was the striker at Chelsea linked with a move away from Stamford Bridge all season, it is Michy Batshuayi who could be heading for the exit. The Belgian forward was a clear second choice to Costa at the Premier League champion this year and he is interested in a loan move to West Ham to get first-team football, according to the  Evening Standard.
After Asmir Begovic left the club Tuesday for Bournemouth, Chelsea is looking to bring in PSG’s Alphonse Areola as his replacement and reserve goalkeeper to Thibaut Courtois, according to  The Sun.
Chelsea is expected to confirm another exit in Dominic Solanke, the 19-year-old forward, who will join Liverpool for £3 million (about $3.85 million), said the  BBC. The deal will be official on July 1.
In defense, Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool is looking to sign from fellow Premier League clubs. The  Daily Mirror reported the Anfield club is after center-back Virgil van Dijk, 25, who is valued at around £50 million ($64 million), while  The Sun said Liverpool will also look to bring Gael Clichy to Merseyside after he was released by Manchester City.


Albert Pujols is going to become the ninth man in professional baseball history to reach 600 home runs. The only questions are where, and when.
With a bomb to right field in Anaheim on Tuesday, the  Los Angeles Angels first baseman moved to 599. He’s now within sight of Sammy Sosa, eighth on the all-time list on 609.
Pujols, 37, has declined in production since he left the St Louis Cardinals for a ten-year, $240 million contract with the Angels in 2012. In a February 2016 article,  ESPN called it the worst contract in Major League Baseball,  despite 40 home runs in 2015.
But that’s the Angels’ problem. Now Pujols is within a hit of 600, it’s too tempting not to wonder where that hit is going to come.
In another season of decline for a future Hall of Famer, Pujols has seven home runs in 46 games for the Angels, or one home run every 6.57 games.
The Angels are on a homestand, with a game against the Atlanta Braves on Thursday followed by three against the Minnesota Twins on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. They have one more game against the Twins on June 6 before they go on the road, for three games against the Detroit Tigers and three against the Houston Astros.
Pujols could belt one into the top tier of Angel Stadium tomorrow, of course. Or it could happen on June 8 at Comerica Park in the Motor City. Either way, inevitably, number 600 is coming.
Barry Bonds: 762
Hank Aaron: 755
Babe Ruth: 714
Alex Rodriguez: 692
Willie Mays: 660
Ken Griffey Jr: 630
Jim Thome: 612
Sammy Sosa: 609
Statistics taken from  Baseball-reference.com


It started with a Nashville Predators tradition.
A fan, throwing a catfish onto the ice—a practice begun around 2003, similar to the  Red Wings’ octopus-hurling, only less historic and maybe weirder.
It’s possible, though, that no Predators fan has ever gone to the lengths of one Jacob Deveral Waddell to act it out.
With the Predators down 3-0 in the first game of their first-ever Stanley Cup Finals at PPG Paints Arena in Pittsburgh, Waddell, 36, chucked a catfish onto the rink. He was promptly escorted from the game.
 
So this dude just got kicked out of Game 1 of the Stanley Cup Final for throwing a catfish on the ice. pic.twitter.com/DzLK6l1Mv5
 

Behind the dead fish, though, lies a story of heroism. One does not simply bring a catfish to a hockey game unopposed—in an interview with  104.5 The Zone in Nashville Tuesday, Waddell explained how he had bought the fish in a market in Tennessee, sprayed it with Old Spice and put in in a cooler for the trip northeast, removed half of its spine before running it over with a truck so that it could be better hidden.
After all that, he hid it under a pair of compression shorts. He also paid $350 to watch a game he didn’t get to see finish and now, according to  Triblive.com, he has been charged by Pittsburgh police for possessing an “instrument of crime” (the catfish, in case you were wondering).
 
Here&#39;s the #catfish criminal complaint against @JacobDeveral #PENSvsPREDS #StanleyCupFinal pic.twitter.com/Z2MygrNAuE
 

The episode provoked a delightfully silly  statement from William Peduto, the mayor of Pittsburgh. "This has turned into a whale of a story. From my perch, I agree with Mayor Barry [Megan Barry, the mayor of Nashville] that we shouldn't be baited into interfering with this fish tale, but if the charges eventually make their way to a judge I hope the predatory catfish hurler who got the hook last night is simply sentenced to community service, perhaps cleaning fish at Wholey's [a famous Pittsburgh fish restaurant]."
And Waddell may have won in the end. Carrie Underwood gave him a shout-out on Twitter. Underwood is married to Predators center Mike Fisher, which given the tone of this story, seems an appropriate unintentional joke on which to end.
 
My hero... ____ https://t.co/2sW9P7mrOg
 



Albert Pujols, the Los Angeles Angels slugger, hit the 599th home run of an illustrious career on Tuesday evening to draw nearer the marks of some of Major League Baseball’s greatest players.
Pujols’ homer—a trademark swing to right field off a pitch from Bartolo Colon—came in the third inning of a 9-3 victory over the  Atlanta Braves at Angel Stadium in Anaheim.
The 37-year-old, born in Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic, established himself as one of the game’s most-feared hitters in the early part of the 21st century with the St Louis Cardinals. He won two World Series with the franchise in 2006 and 2011.

With the hit, which came as part of a nine-run third inning that opened up the game for the Angels, Pujols draws a little closer to those famous sluggers. Only eight men have ever hit more 600 home runs, with Sammy Sosa now closest to Pujols on 609. Barry Bonds, the controversial former outfielder who played for the Pittsburgh Pirates and San Francisco Giants, leads the way on 762.


French tennis player Maxime Hamou has been kicked out of the French Open for repeatedly kissing and groping a female reporter on camera.
Related: ESPN's '100 Most Famous Athletes' list omits baseball
During a post-match interview, the 21-year-old Hamou, ranked 287th in the world, put his arm around Eurosport reporter Maly Thomas and, over the course of about 35 seconds, repeatedly kissed her as she attempted to interview him. Thomas tried to wriggle away from Hamou, but his grip on her shoulder remained firm. Toward the end of the interview, he moved his hand closer to her neck and, ultimately, across the front of her blouse before she flung it away and escaped.

The French Federation of Tennis called it a "reprehensible act."
Also reprehensible was the response from studio host Henri Leconte, a former tennis pro who laughs and claps heartily as Hamou assaults Thomas.
Though the interview came after Hamou lost in straight sets to Pablo Cuevas of Uruguay in the tournament's first round, the Open still felt the need to publicly ban the Frenchman from the rest of the tournament. “The management of the tournament has decided to revoke Maxime Hamou’s accreditation following his reprehensible behavior with a journalist yesterday,” the French Tennis Federation said in statement provided to The Telegraph.
Thomas smiles throughout the interview before throwing Hamou's arm off of her chest, but don't be mistaken: “If I hadn’t been live on air, I would have punched him," she told Huffington Post France.
Hamou on Tuesday released an apology via his Instagram account (translation via Deadspin):
After the show “Avantage Leconte,” I have to give my deepest regrets to Maly Thomas if she felt hurt or shocked by my attitude during her interview. I just lived a magnificent week here at Roland Garros as I lived my most beautiful thrills as a tennis player, and I allowed my overflow of enthusiasm to bleed clumsily toward Maly, who I know and respect sincerely. Nothing but what is written was my intention. I am at her disposition to present my apologies in person if she would like it. I again learn from my mistakes every day to become a better tennis player and a better person.
Thomas's network, Eurosport, issued a statement provided to Retuers on Tuesday. "We sincerely regret the incident that occurred during yesterday evening’s interview between Maly Thomas and Maxime Hamou. The behavior of the interviewee was highly inappropriate and we do not condone such conduct in any way. Maly is a highly respected journalist and we are pleased that a full apology is being offered."
The French Tennis Federation has said that it will continue to investigate the incident.


As obsessed as ESPN is with LaVar Ball, the world’s most obnoxious sports dad failed to make its annual “100 Most Famous Athletes on the Planet” list. Then again, no baseball or hockey player cracked ESPN’s top 100, either.
The list, released Tuesday, is headlined by Real Madrid soccer superstar Cristiano Ronaldo, whom ESPN.com dubs “The King of Social Media” with his 261 million followers on various platforms. The striking Portuguese striker is one of 38 footballers in ESPN’s top 100, by far the most of any sport. Ronaldo’s La Liga rival, F.C. Barcelona striker Lionel Messi, is third on the list.
Serena Williams is not the world's most famous female athlete, according to ESPN's list.   Jason Reed
LeBron James, second on the list, is one of 13 basketball players in ESPN’s top 100, while Phil Mickelson, at No. 5, is the top-ranked of 11 golfers. A decade of tennis players, headed by Switzerland’s Roger Federer at No. 4, appear, as do eight NFL stars, topped by New England Patriot quarterback Tom Brady at No. 20 (Houston Texan defensive end J.J. Watt is the only defensive player to make the cut).
The list, which excludes college athletes because of their amateur status, is a measure of fame—or infamy—as opposed to achievement in the past year. Tiger Woods placed 10th, 48 spaces ahead of reigning Masters champion Sergio Garcia. Mixed-martial artist Ronda Rousey, who was knocked out in the first round of her only bout in the past year, is the top-rated female—three places ahead of Serena Williams—at No. 16. (Rousey moved up seven spots from last year’s ranking.) Kawhi Leonard of the San Antonio Spurs failed to make not only the top 100 but is nowhere to be seen on the total list of 377 names considered (ESPN.com only published the top 100), a fact that must please his hype-averse coach, Gregg Popovich.
Related: Bundesliga names first female referee
“The formula is a mix of social media popularity, Google search optics and endorsements,” says ESPN spokesman Paul Melvin. “Within that realm, you’re going to have some outliers. Mickelson, at No. 5, is an example of that because he is tilted heavily toward endorsements.”
Ichiro is the world's most famous baseball player—though not among the world's top 100 athletes—according to ESPN.   USA TODAY SPORTS
Retired athletes are not on the list, which explains the absence of Olympic swimming legend Michael Phelps, who competed at the Rio Olympics just 10 months ago, and boxer Floyd Mayweather, who will likely come out of retirement to fight MMA icon Conor McGregor (No. 25) this autumn. “Until that fight is officially set, Mayweather is technically ineligible,” says Melvin.
The most famous hockey player, according to ESPN’s Melvin, citing figures outside the top 100, is Sidney Crosby of the Pittsburgh Penguins (111). The top-rated baseball player was neither Mike Trout (155) nor Bryce Harper (158), but rather 43 year-old Japanese native Ichiro Suzuki (124), who is now in his 17th major league season. South Korean sensation Hyun Jin-Ryu, a relief pitcher with the Los Angeles Dodgers, also finished ahead of Trout and Harper, placing 152nd.
As for female athletes, the battle of the sexes remains a one-sided fight in terms of fame and endorsements. Only eight of the top 100 athletes are female, and only two of them (Williams and gymnast Simone Biles) are African-American. Twice as many Indian cricket players made the list as black female athletes.
The rankings were overseen by ESPN’s director of analytics, Ben Alamar. As for LaVar Ball, who as of late has been ubiquitous on ESPN and social media, Melvin says, “It’s interesting, because he is not an athlete. But with the potential for sales in terms of the [Big Baller] family brand, there’s a good chance [his son] Lonzo Ball could crack the top 100 next year.”


When you ask Oregon State baseball coach Pat Casey how he has led his top-ranked Beavers to an otherworldly 49-4 record this spring, or how the Corvallis-based program over which he has presided for 23 seasons is the only school north of Palo Alto to win the College World Series in the past half-century, he provides a succinct answer.
“I had the good fortune,” says Casey, “of not having anybody take care of me.”
Long before he became a Beaver, the Oregon native demonstrated the industriousness of one of nature’s engineers. While finishing up his undergrad degree at George Fox University in Newberg, Oregon, Casey played on the basketball team, coached the baseball team and worked as a janitor.
“In the seven years I was at George Fox, I earned $30,000 cumulative,” says Casey, 56, who led the Beavers to NCAA championships in 2006 and 2007. “When Oregon State offered me the job, I didn’t care if I had to ride a tricycle to get there. I was going to make it.”
Oregon State baseball coach Pat Casey accepts a hug from his oldest son, Jon, after winning his 1,000th career game earlier this season.   COURTESY OREGON STATE
The Beavers will open the NCAA baseball tournament this Friday as the top overall seed by hosting Holy Cross (23-27) at their historic Goss Stadium, which predates Fenway Park by five years (it opened in 1907). Oregon State enters the tournament on a 16-game winning streak, and they had a 23-game win streak earlier this spring. Of the 13 three-game series Oregon State has played this season, the Beavers have won all 13.
“This is where the value of short-term goals lies,” says Casey. “Of course, we want to win the College World Series, but we set a goal of winning every series this season.”
Oregon State, should it win a third national championship this June, would likely set the all-time mark for top winning percentage in a season. The Beavers’ .924 winning percentage is better than the NCAA mark set by Arizona State in 1972. (The Sun Devils finished 64-6, for a .914 average, losing to fellow Pacific-12 school Southern California in the College World Series.) No opponent has defeated Oregon State more than once. Only Mother Nature has stopped Oregon State on multiple occasions this spring, inflicting four rainouts at Goss Stadium (this Casey also presides over a Mudville nine).
“As a baseball player, I look at our record and think this is a joke,” says sophomore second baseman Cadyn Grenier. “As a member of this team, I’m really not surprised.”
While beavers are magicians with wood, Casey’s Beavers are more renowned for how they work with leather. Or at least how they operate from an earthen mound. Paced by southpaw Luke Heimlich’s 0.81 earned-run average, tops in the nation, the Beavers pitching staff leads the country in both ERA (1.84) and walks plus hits per inning pitched (0.98). Casey’s players like to credit their grounded coach, though, for the team’s success.
“Coach Casey is one of the only coaches I’ve ever met where 100 percent of what he does is for us,” says Grenier. “Earlier this year, we played at Stanford, and there were six of us whose hotel rooms were not ready. Coach was a little irritated, but he stayed down in the lobby with us until everyone had a room. He doesn’t put himself before anyone.”
Beavers second baseman Cadyn Grenier says he felt he was being recruited as much on character as on talent.   COURTESY OREGON STATE
That Casey guided the Beavers to consecutive national championships in 2006 and 2007, making them the first non-Sun Belt school to do so since Ohio State in 1966, is remarkable. That a program moored in the rain-blessed Pacific Northwest has become perennially dominant in the Pac-12 conference, which has produced five Sun Belt schools that have won 19 NCAA championships since that Buckeyes triumph a half-century ago, is borderline miraculous.
The Pac-12 is to collegiate baseball, after all, what Mexico is to tequila manufacturing, but Oregon State should be the padre-y-madre facility in Tijuana. The Beavers lack the obvious advantages of their counterparts’ sun-splashed campuses (e.g., Arizona and Arizona State, UCLA, USC, Stanford), but they still thrive. In fact, when Casey arrived in Corvallis in 1995, the Beavers and three other then-Pac-10 schools located in the Pacific Northwest were embargoed from competing in conference play.
So how did Casey overcome these obstacles? By being, in the manner of his school’s mascot, industrious.
In Casey’s third season, Oregon State finished 38-12-1 but failed to earn a wild card berth to the NCAA postseason. He knew that as long as Oregon State remained segregated in baseball, as opposed to all other sports in the Pac-10, his program was opening each season with two strikes against it. “How do you tell a kid you’re recruiting that we play in the Pac-10 but that we don’t play Stanford or USC or Arizona State?” asks Casey. “So I started rallying coaches in the north to fight for inclusion.”
Luke Heimlich's 0.81 ERA is the lowest in all of college baseball.   COURTESY OREGON STATE
Casey’s Ned Stark act did not play to universal acclaim, either above or below the California-Oregon border. “The coaches in the south were very opposed to it, and I don’t blame them,” says Casey, who in the late 1990s was earning less than $40,000 a year and traveling with his players by bus to Pullman to play Pac-10 counterpart Washington State. “Some of the coaches in the north didn’t like it either because that meant a dramatic upgrade in competition.”
Related: When will baseball open its Doors to women?
In 1999, the Pac-10 eliminated the “Six-Pac” (Arizona, Arizona State, Cal, Stanford, UCLA and USC) and opened up conference play to all 10 members. The Beavers would finish below .500 in conference play every season for the next six years. In 2005, led by future Major League All-Star Jacoby Ellsbury (currently patrolling center field for the New York Yankees), Oregon State finished 46-12 and made its inaugural trip to Omaha, Nebraska, for the College World Series. In nine of the 12 years since, the Beavers have won at least two-thirds of their games.
“Everything we’ve achieved since we’ve gotten here,” Casey says without a trace of arrogance, “we’ve earned.”
The current 49-4 record, though, represents a new summit not just for the program but for all of college baseball. “I’ve never seen anything as odd as our record in 30 years of being involved in college baseball,” Casey says. “On the other hand, when you examine it game by game, I don’t think we’re doing anything crazy. We’re bold but humble.”
When the skies do clear, 110-year-old Goss Stadium, located in the heart of Oregon State's campus, is a sublime spot to watch a game.   COURTESY OREGON STATE
Humility comes easily to a man who spent seven years riding buses betwixt baseball backwaters. Casey once played 144 games in 150 days in the Texas League. The closest the former outfielder, a 10th-round pick by the San Diego Padres in 1980, got to The Show was a one-game call-up during spring training in the early 1980s.
“I was with Seattle, and they called up me and Danny Tartabull on the same day,” recalls Casey. “My first at-bat, I hit a home run off [13-year Major Leaguer] Vern Ruhle, and I thought, I’ve made it. After the game, they put me back on a bus to the minors.”
Casey glances at his past without a trace of regret but rather with appreciation and fondness for the wisdom that it allows him to pass on to his players. He smiles at memories of the early days in Corvallis, when he signed 11 consecutive one-year contracts (the Beavers finally offered him a long-term deal after he took them to the College World Series). He laughs about a recruiting budget that did not allow for hotel expenses, so that he’d change into his suit in the men’s room of a fast-food joint.
“My assistant coach and I would take turns changing into our suits during lunch, and then after the visit we might stop for a ‘coldie’ on the drive back home,” Casey says. “Those were good times.”As are these. Casey understands that he does not have the built-in advantages of fertile recruiting grounds or being located in a sexy college town or even, on far too many days on the western side of the Cascade mountains, a blue sky. He relishes the type of player who chooses his program despite those superficial disadvantages.
“It’s no secret that coaching young men gets more difficult each year as society loses its grip on reality,” says Casey, whose distinctly Irish name is accentuated by his birthdate: March 17. “But what I’ve learned is that kids haven’t changed that much, only their outside influences have. When we take the team photo each year, I ask my guys, ‘Ten years from now, do you want to be one of the guys that people point out or are you going to be happy being just another face?’”
This spring, the Beavers’ team photo is loaded with faces worth pointing out. Not the least of which is the skipper’s.


Ander Herrera will turn down a move to Barcelona and a reunion with his former coach Ernesto Valverde to remain at Manchester United, according to reports.
The 27-year-old midfielder, who starred in  Jose Mourinho’s team this season, earned a reputation at Athletic Bilbao under the  management of Valverde, who was appointed Barca boss on Monday.
According to  The Times, Valverde is keen on signing the Spanish midfielder in his first transfer window in the job to increase his options in the center of the pitch.
Together,  Herrera and Valverde helped put Bilbao back into the  Champions League in 2014, having spent 16 years outside Europe’s top club competition.
But the report says Herrera will reject an attempt from his former boss as Manchester United heads back into the Champions League next season having won the Community Shield, League Cup and Europa League.
Herrera has just one year left on his contract at Old Trafford but is likely to extend his deal this summer after proving to be a key member of  Mourinho’s team during the past season. This was reflected in his winning of the club’s player of the year award earlier in May.
He was instrumental in the Europa League final win against Ajax, after which he gained the man of the match award, and his most memorable performance of the season came when he nullified Eden Hazard in United’s 2-0 win over Chelsea in April.
Valverde will be looking to boost his Barcelona side in order to make his mark, and improve on the Spanish giant’s relatively poor showing last season, when it couldn’t beat arch rival Real Madrid to the La Liga title.


On Monday evening, Barcelona president Josep Maria Bartomeu revealed Ernesto Valverde as the new manager at the Camp Nou.
Valverde succeeds  Luis Enrique, who confirmed in March that he would be vacating the manager’s seat after three years in charge of  Barcelona.
Enrique’s team won the Copa del Rey this year but lost out to  Real Madrid in La Liga and was knocked out of the Champions League by  Juventus at the quarterfinal stage.
Valverde is charged with guiding Barca back to the top in both Spain and Europe, but how qualified is he for the position? Here,  Newsweek  takes a look at the new man at the Camp Nou:
Valverde announced last week that he would be leaving Athletic Bilbao after four years in charge at San Mames. Before that he had managed several Spanish clubs, including Valencia and Villarreal.
This was Valverde’s second stint as manager at the club. In his first, from 2003 through 2005, he saw the club qualify for the UEFA Cup, now known as the Europa League. He then led the club to its first trophy in 31 years when he returned in 2013, when Bilbao won the 2015 Spanish Cup. He did this at a club that has a strict transfer policy that prevents it from signing certain players.
Technically, it’s an unwritten rule. But it is widely known that Athletic Bilbao only signs players who were born in the Basque Country, or learned football within the region in northern Spain. This requires the likes of Valverde to promote and nurture youth players rather than looking to the transfer market.
No, Valverde was born in Viandar de la Vera, in central Spain, in 1964—but he moved to the Basque Country as a child, and it was here that he learnt his trade. He began his playing career at Deportivo Alaves and Sestao in the second tier of Spanish football in the early 1980s before moving to Espanyol in La Liga.
Valverde was a forward in his playing career, scoring 77 goals in 320 appearances at the professional level. He represented Spain just once in the first team, when he played 19 minutes of a Euro ‘92 qualifier against Iceland.  
After two years at Espanyol, Valverde moved over to Barcelona in 1988 and played at the Camp Nou for two years, where he won the Copa del Rey and a UEFA Cup Winners’ Cup. Valverde was part of a squad managed by Johan Cruyff that included the likes of Gary Lineker, Julio Salinas and Andoni Zubizarreta Urreta, but injuries limited his first-team action. He played just 22 times for the club and scored eight goals. But his impact on Cruyff was positive. In January 2007, Cruyff wrong in Spanish newspaper  La Vanguardia: “Valverde always gives fans reasons to be proud of their team.”
Valverde moved on to Athletic Bilbao in 1990 where he spent the majority of his career and where he is most linked with. He scored 44 times for Bilbao in 170 matches over six years, and then spent one season with Mallorca before retiring.
A 15-year career has seen Valverde manage in Spain for the majority of his career, with two stints at Bilbao and two years at Espanyol, as well as stints in charge at Villarreal and Valencia before being appointed at Barcelona this summer. The only club he managed outside Spain is Greece’s Olympiacos, which he managed twice, from 2008 through 2009 and 2010 through 2012. He won the league in each season with Olympiacos as well as two Greek Cups. Valverde’s other standout moment in management came when his Espanyol team lost the final of the 2006-07 UEFA Cup on penalties to Sevilla.
Valverde has an intelligent management style, with the ability to play swift football, but his arrival at the Camp Nou hasn’t been met with a great deal of excitement. This is due to his Bilbao team finishing seventh in La Liga and its meek performance in the Europa League—it was eliminated by Cypriot club Apoel Nicosia, a minnow in the European leagues.
Valverde’s task is great. Barcelona is in a transitional phase—it is far too reliant on the aging Lionel Messi, and opposition teams are not as intimidated by the red and yellow stripes as they once were. Barcelona lost the first leg of its Champions League last 16 tie with Paris Saint Germain 4-0. Though it made a miraculous comeback to make it through, it lost 3-0 to Juventus in the next round and went out. Valverde will have to strengthen the defense at the Camp Nou and ease Neymar into the main role as Messi heads toward his 30s. It is certainly the biggest job of Valverde’s life.


NBC’s affiliate station in West Palm Beach, Florida, WPTV, reported that golfer Tiger Woods was arrested on a DUI charge at 3 a.m. Eastern time on Monday morning. Woods, 41, was arrested on Military Trail South of Indian Creek Parkway in Jupiter, Florida, not far from his home on Jupiter Island. According to the station’s report, Woods was released from Palm Beach County Jail at 10:50 a.m.
Only five days ago, the 14-time majors champion announced on his website that “unequivocally, I want to play golf again.” Woods underwent his fourth back surgery in April, a spinal fusion procedure. In February, he pulled out of an event in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, after shooting a first-round 77 a week after missing the cut at the Farmer’s Open. He sat out almost all of 2016 due to lower-back problems.

Since winning the 2008 U.S. Open at age 32, Woods has not won a major and has fallen far from his lofty perch as one of sports' most iconic figures. On Thanksgiving weekend of 2009, he crashed his vehicle after a domestic dispute with his then wife, Elin. The couple has since divorced, and in the ensuing years, Woods has battled a plethora of physical setbacks related mostly to his back but also to his knee—he won that final U.S. Open on a torn ACL. 
Related: The long list of setbacks since Tiger's last major
In a 17-month span between March of 2012 and August of 2013, Woods won eight PGA Tour events and appeared to be returning to form. Further back problems have plagued him, however. He dated Olympic and World Cup downhill ski champion Lindsey Vonn for a couple of years, but the couple has since broken up.
Monday morning’s arrest is the latest shot into the rough from a once-legendary figure. Florida DUI laws stipulate a six-month loss of driver’s license for a blood-alcohol content of .08 percent or more. There is no mandatory minimum jail term.


The season may be over for Premier League clubs but in one sense, business is just beginning.
With the summer  transfer window opening for English clubs on June 9, rumors and reports are gathering pace.
A select few clubs, like  Manchester City, have started sealing deals even before the official start of the window. Bernardo Silva, the winger from A.S. Monaco, is a particularly eye-catching buy at a reported £43.6 million.
Here are the latest reports, rumors and news from May 30.
José Mourinho has a “pyramid structure” of summer transfer targets, according to the  Manchester Evening News, with several players identified for each position of need.
United manager Mourinho wants  Antoine Griezmann as his number one priority in attack. But he’s also prepared to sanction bids for Everton’s Romelu Lukaku and Andrea Belotti, should Griezmann prove too tricky to prise from Atletico Madrid.
Another of Mourinho’s reported targets,  Ivan Perisic, could end up being the rope in a tug-of-war between United and Chelsea.  Sky Sports claims Mourinho has made an opening offer of £36 million for the 28-year-old but Antonio Conte would also like a left winger to provide competition within his squad as he seeks to defend the Premier League title.
Manchester City has been the title contender most active in the transfer market so far this summer but the  Daily Mail reports on a possible outgoing transfer.  Kelechi Iheanacho  may be deemed surplus to requirements at Etihad Stadium with West Ham United interested, though City wants a buyback clause in case Iheanacho turns into a world-beating striker in east London.
Arsenal’s transfer business will surely remain shrouded in uncertainty until the future of Arsène Wenger is sorted—possibly as early as a board meeting on Tuesday. Still, that uncertainty encompasses the futures of  Mesut Ozil and  Alexis Sanchez  too and the  Daily Mirror reports Arsenal will make “one last push” at keeping them with two huge new contract offers.
Also in that  Mirror report is the claim that Arsenal will move for  Riyad Mahrez in the summer though should the Leicester City winger arrive it will surely be as a replacement for Ozil, as their skills are so similar.


Arsène Wenger is set to be offered a contract extension at Arsenal on Tuesday but will be warned by the club to be more aggressive in the transfer market, according to reports.
The Frenchman, who will enter his 22nd year as  Arsenal manager if he stays on at the Emirates Stadium, has built a reputation for not buying his  marquee signings until the final days of the window.
This has seen the club miss out on key players. Last summer,  N’Golo Kante, the PFA and FWA Player of the Year, is said to have wanted to join Arsenal but ended up starring in Chelsea’s Premier League title-winning team after signing for £30 million ($38.5 million).
Arsenal, instead, signed Granit Xhaka from Borussia Monchengladbach for £35 million ($45 million) but the Swiss struggled this season, picking up 13 yellow and three red cards.
Wenger also  reportedly had a deal wrapped up to sign Gonzalo Higuain from Real Madrid in 2013 but switched his attention to Luis Suarez at Liverpool. Arsenal didn’t end up with either player.
The club’s board is looking to avoid this trend continuing as part of a restructuring at Arsenal, and, according to the  Daily Mail, it will tell Wenger not to dither on deals this summer.
The report claims that Sandro Ramirez and Pablo Fornals, both of Malaga, are among the list of targets the club is aiming for while the summer window is open.
Wenger also has to secure the futures of Arsenal’s key players, Alexis Sanchez and Mesut Ozil, whose contracts expire at the end of next season.


Frank Deford, the longtime sports commentator for NPR and  Sports Illustrated writer, died on May 28 at the age of 78.
Deford made his last broadcast, transcribed in full below, on NPR’s  Morning Edition on May 3.
“Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, children of all ages. I always wanted to use that in a commentary. That wonderful circus introduction, ballyhooed by the splendid ringmaster. But I could just never find the ideal spot.
Of course had I, there would be some people who’d say that a circus doesn’t belong in with sports. But hey, just because there’s clowns around doesn’t disqualify certain daredevils from being certified athletes. Equestrians, tightrope walkers, and those who fly through the air with the greatest of ease.
That’s why I was so upset to learn that the grandest big top ever, Ringling Brothers Barnum & Bailey, was going out of business later this month. The greatest show on earth. And it probably was exactly that, once upon a time.
Well, by coincidence, this particular tiny show on earth that consists of me talking about sports on NPR, is also folding its tent flaps this May of 2017. Yes, this is my swansong, my farewell, my last hurrah.  Adieu,  adios,  arrivederci,  auf wiedersehen.
I’ve been delivering these little homilies since 1980. That’s 37 years, and altogether, NPR’s statisticians tell me, my bloviation total is 1,656 commentaries. And I trust you’ve hung onto every word. I have survived so long because I’ve been blessed with talented and gracious colleagues. And with a top brass who let me choose my topics every week, and then allowed me to express opinions that were not always popular. Well, someone had to stand up to the yackety-yak soccer cult.
And perhaps just as important—I’ve been blessed with you, with a broad and intelligent audience, even if large portions thereof haven’t necessarily given a hoot about sports. Nothing has pleased me so much as when someone, usually a woman, writes me or tells me that she has appreciated sports more. Because NPR allowed me to treat sports seriously, as another branch on the tree of culture.
Thank you for listening. Thank you for abiding me. And now, ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, children of all ages. I bid you goodbye, and take my leave.”


Washington Nationals right fielder Bryce Harper stands 6 feet 2 inches tall and weighs 230 pounds. San Francisco Giants pitcher Hunter Strickland is 6 feet 4 and only 10 pounds lighter. On Monday, we found out what a fight between them looks like.
In the eighth inning of the  Nationals’ 3-0 victory at AT&T park, Strickland hit  Harper with a 98-mile-per-hour fastball. The reaction was more ice hockey than baseball. Harper, 24, pointed his bat at Strickland and charged toward him, throwing his helmet to the ground as he ran.
Strickland stood his ground, and the pair swung at each other before the benches cleared. Asked what he had thought when Harper began swinging, Strickland replied: “It’s go time.”
It’s kind of funny to watch, though the consequences for Harper and Strickland, a relief pitcher, could be severe.  Forbes reports both are likely to be suspended.
"You either go to first base or you go after him, and I decided to go after him," Harper said in quotes reported by  ESPN.
Harper had not faced a pitch from Strickland since the 2014 National League Division Series between the Nationals and the Giants, when Harper hammered two home runs off Strickland’s pitches.
I love Bryce Harper. #Nats pic.twitter.com/LcMnIxNXka



Frank Deford, who as a journalist for Sports Illustrated was known as a master of long-form storytelling and as a regular commentator for National Public Radio brought sports to life for many listeners with only a passing interest in athletics, has died at age 78, his wife said on Monday.
Deford died suddenly on Sunday at his home in Key West, Florida, after an illness, his wife Carol Deford said by phone.
In 2012, then-President Barack Obama presented Deford a medal from the National Endowment for the Humanities, which honoured him "for transforming how we think about sports." He also was named to the National Association of Sportscasters and Sportswriters Hall of Fame.
Deford retired from NPR earlier this month after 37 years with the broadcast network.
"Nothing has pleased me so much as when someone, usually a woman, writes me or tells me that she's appreciated sports more because NPR allowed me to treat sports seriously as another branch on the tree of culture," Deford said in his final commentary.
A native of Maryland, Deford attended Princeton University and began his career as a reporter and researcher for Sports Illustrated magazine in 1962.
He excelled at long-form profiles of major sports figures, such as tennis star Jimmy Connors, college basketball coach Bobby Knight and the late professional football quarterback Johnny Unitas.
Deford was known for musing philosophically about the role of athletics in American life.
Writing in Sports Illustrated about his boyhood hero Johnny Unitas, who played for Deford's hometown Baltimore Colts in the 1950s, Deford said he wondered how people "in olden times connected back to their childhoods."
"After all, we have hooks with the past," Deford wrote. "When most of us from the 20th century reminisce about growing up, we right away remember the songs and the athletes of any particular moment. Right?"
Deford wrote more than a dozen books, including several novels such as "Bliss, Remembered" set during the 1936 Olympic Games, and the football saga "Everybody's All-American"—made into a 1988 movie starring Dennis Quaid and Jessica Lange.
In "Alex: The Life of a Child," Deford described his daughter who died at age 8 of cystic fibrosis.
Deford is survived by his wife Carol and two adult children, Christian and Scarlet.


Former world No. 1 golfer Tiger Woods said an unexpected reaction to prescribed medications was to blame for his early-morning DUI arrest near his Jupiter Island home in Florida on Monday.
Woods, who underwent surgery last week to relieve lingering back pain, was booked at 7:18 a.m. (1118 GMT) and released several hours later on his own recognizance, Palm Beach County Police said in an online report.
Woods said in a statement released by his spokesman that alcohol was not a factor in his arrest but apologized and added that he took full responsibility.
"I want the public to know that alcohol was not involved," he said.
"What happened was an unexpected reaction to prescribed medications. I didn’t realize the mix of medications had affected me so strongly.
"I would like to apologize with all my heart to my family, friends and the fans. I expect more from myself, too."
Woods, who is second on the all-time list with 14 major titles, said he cooperated with police and wanted to thank the Jupiter Police Department and the Palm Beach County Sheriff's office for their professionalism.
"I will do everything in my power to ensure this never happens again," he added.
The incident occurred less than a week after Woods expressed optimism about his future following back surgery, saying on his website that he experienced "instant relief" and had not "felt this good in years."
Woods has previously made headlines away from the golf course. His private life unraveled in late 2009 over allegations about affairs with several women and ultimately led to the end of his marriage.
Those allegations followed a bizarre early morning car accident outside his Florida home that rapidly ballooned into a fully-fledged sex scandal which turned his previously unblemished life and career upside down.
The scandal ultimately cost Woods a number of lucrative endorsement deals, while other sponsors shifted away from using him in marketing but did not end their contracts with him.
Woods, whose current sponsors include Nike, Bridgestone, Hero, Kowa, Upper Deck, and Monster Energy was ranked 12th on Forbes' list of the highest-paid athletes in 2016, with total earnings of $45.3 million, despite missing much of the year recovering from back surgery.
A 79-time winner on the PGA Tour who was world No. 1 for a record 683 weeks, Woods lost form in recent years due to injuries and the mastering of a new swing while his ranking has plummeted to 876 after his long spell on the sidelines.
He has competed in only 19 events on the PGA Tour since the end of 2013, recording just one top-10 during that period along with seven missed cuts and three withdrawals.


On Thursday night, in the 212th postseason game of his NBA career, LeBron James scored 35 points as the Cleveland Cavaliers eliminated the Boston Celtics from the playoffs. The win means that for the seventh consecutive year, James is headed to the NBA Finals. His point total means that by a margin of 5,995 to 5,987, King James has passed Michael Jordan as the all-time leading scorer in the NBA postseason.
James’s latest milestone provided the overly disputatious debate-embracers, aka mass debaters, with another opportunity for verbal assault. Is James, he of three NBA championships and four Most Valuable Player awards, a greater all-time great than Jordan, who earned six rings while winning five MVP honors? Why do such arguments exist? Because humans have an innate need to rank things and/or include slideshows. Even the Son of Man was not immune to this predilection: “So now faith, hope and love abide, these three,” said Jesus, “but the greatest of these is love [I Corinthians 13:13].”
(Note that’s a lowercase “l,” though Kevin Love has had a magnificent postseason thus far.)
In his final seven seasons with the Bulls, Jordan's teams were 25-1 in postseason series.   Yuri Gripas
Could Batman take Spider-Man in a no-webs-barred fight? We’ll never know: different comic universes. Was Casanova more skilled in the romantic arts than DiCaprio? It’s an unfair question, as Victoria’s Secret did not exist in the 18th century. Who would win in a fight between Floyd Mayweather and Conor McGregor? Again, we’ll never know, bec—what’s that, you say? They’re going to step into the ring this autumn? OK, scratch that one.
The Jordan vs. James debate is not really a referendum on which one of these legends is superior, though. It’s an avocado toast argument: your era versus mine. A few weeks ago, Tim Gurner, a 35-year-old Australian developer, admonished millennials for their dissolute spending habits. “When I was trying to buy my first home,” said Gurner, whose fortune is estimated at $464 million, “I wasn't buying smashed avocados for 19 bucks and four coffees at $4 each.”
Of course, a dozen years ago, Gurner probably did not graduate college as deeply in debt as today’s grads do, but why ruin a pithy avocado toast metaphor? Still, MJ vs. LeBron is basically sports fans (mostly esteem-challenged adult males) sticking up for their era, which by the transitive property is them sticking up for themselves. One can imagine fathers and sons in the 1940s tossing flaming emojis at one another as to which Roosevelt was the superior president. (“Who won World War II?” countered with “Whose face is on Mount Rushmore?!?”)
At 6'9" and 260 pounds, James has an athleticism never been seen before in the NBA.   USA TODAY SPORTS
It’s no coincidence that a majority of the pro-Jordan camp, this writer included, were born before 1980 and that the far greater swell of those born after 1980 lobby for LeBron (of course, this is an unofficial observation, completely unsubstantiated by a Nate Silver poll, so its validity is most likely to be dismissed by anyone who thinks of “war” as a baseball stat as opposed to the last resort in international disputes).
Related: Mission completed, will LeBron leave Cleveland?
Anyway, even though Jordan retired in 2003, roughly six months before James made his NBA debut, there exists an insatiable appetite on talk shows and online to determine which player is superior. The fact that Wilt Chamberlain’s name never appears in these conversations, even though he is the league’s all-time leader in rebounds per game and is second only to Jordan in points per game (they are the only two players to eclipse 30 points per game), is a product of two factors: 1) many people participating in these arguments never saw him play (Big Dipper truthers) and 2) as a dominant center, he played a position to which none of these arbiters of hoops prowess can relate. (A third potential reason is there is the nagging suspicion that he may have bedded their mother, grandmother or great aunt.)

Let’s eliminate Chamberlain and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Magic Johnson and Bill Russell and George Mikan and even Kobe Bryant from this debate, if only to allow ourselves a chance to focus. Here is a classic blow-for-blow between MJ and King James supporters:
LBJ: “LeBron just broke Jordan’s playoff career scoring record.”
MJ: “Yeah, but it took him 33 more games [212 to 179] to do it.”
LBJ: “Sure, but Jordan took 118 more shots overall [4,497 to 4,379]. Jordan may have a higher playoff scoring average [33.4 to 28.3], but he also took nearly five more shots per game than 'Bron. He was a chucker!”
MJ: “The Decision!”
LBJ: “Birmingham Barons!”
MJ: “Temecula!”
LBJ: “Now why you do you need to drag Kobe into this?!?”
Without running through every last statistical comparison (e.g., Jordan ranks first all-time in playoff Player Efficiency Rating, while James is third, behind Mikan), it seems reasonable to say that James is a more dominant physical specimen whose teams would never have made one of the seven NBA Finals without him. Jordan was a superior one-on-one scorer as well as—and this may be the defining difference—the ultimate closer in any sport. In defining-moment time, no one, with the possible exception of baseball’s David Ortiz, ever had a higher rate of success over a prolonged period of time.
Chamberlain would have had a few thoughts on this debate.   Jeff Taylor
James’s block of Andre Iguodala in Game 7 of last June’s NBA Finals was his postseason career highlight. It helped erase the missed three-pointer in Game 6 of the 2013 NBA Finals (only Ray Allen’s buzzer beater following the errant shot kept the Miami Heat from losing that series to the San Antonio Spurs), but it was also the paragon of his virtues: a superhuman athletic feat that did not require James to drain a do-or-die shot.
Jordan played in six NBA Finals and not only never lost one, his Bulls were never even taken to Game 7. James has already played in more NBA Finals, and when his career ends he will likely have surpassed Jordan in all total individual stats, if not per-game figures. He may even win as many NBA championships and MVPs as Jordan did. There is no winner in this debate: There are only losers who attempt to tear down the player not of their era in an attempt to promote their own.
Now shut up and finish your avocado toast.


Has Wayne Rooney played his last game for Manchester United?
Rooney says he has “  more or less decided ” his future and  Sky Sports claims he’s expected to leave  Old Trafford this summer.
United’s record goalscorer, Rooney has also been dropped from the England squad for the internationals against Scotland and France in June by manager Gareth Southgate.
With the end of his United career likely near, here are Rooney’s best, and worst, moments in a United shirt.
The debut
Rooney announced himself on the elite stage of European football in a thunderous manner. Against Fenerbahce in the Champions League he sent Old Trafford into raptures with three exceptional finishes. The first was a left-footed piledriver, the second a daisy-cutter from outside the penalty area. The hattrick was completed with a free-kick that arced unstoppably past Rustu Recber.

The Header, 2010 League Cup final
The apogee of Rooney’s finest goalscoring season. Aston Villa had taken an early lead at Wembley before Michael Owen equalized. Rooney came on just before halftime to replace the injured Owen and made the decisive intervention. In the 74th minute, he arched his back to meet an Antonio Valencia cross, producing enough power to send the ball beyond Brad Friedel in the Villa goal.

The overhead kick
Rooney later described his overhead kick against Manchester City as the “most important” goal of his career. It may also be the most beautiful. Luis Nani’s cross was no more than adequate until Rooney leapt sideways, contorting his body and sending one of the sweetest shinned finishes of all time past Joe Hart, whose only movement was to watch the ball disappearing into the back of his net.

The 2008 Champions League
Rooney didn’t score or assist in the 2008 Champions League final against Chelsea, and he was taken off before the end of extra time for Nani so he didn’t even get to take a penalty. That game is remembered for John Terry’s slip in the shootout, and his tears in the rain. But it may be, too, one of the best examples of Rooney’s team-first ethos. In a United team built around Cristiano Ronaldo, with Carlos Tevez as second violin, Rooney performed a defensive role on the left wing without complaint. It brought him his only Champions League.
The contract wrangles
Rooney’s legacy with Manchester United’s supporters is tricky to define, partly due to perceived disloyalty in the past. In October 2010 he came  perilously close to making what would have been one of the most rancorous transfers of all time, crossing Manchester from United to City. In the end he stayed but there may be the sense that for all his goals, Rooney has held United to ransom at times. He signed a new  £300,000-a-week deal with the club in February 2014; such sums require elevated performances and since then Rooney has not delivered consistently.
The 2011 Champions League final
Rooney scored a fine individual goal, and was one of the few United players to emerge in credit from a chastening evening at Wembley Stadium. Barcelona, spearheaded by a player Rooney might once have expected to rank alongside in Lionel Messi, ran around and over United in a 3-1 victory that signalled the beginning of the end of the epic Sir Alex Ferguson era.

The Europa League final
A bittersweet evening in Stockholm for Rooney. If this proves his final game then it will have been a more elegant exit than might have been expected. Brought on by Jose Mourinho in the last four minutes to preserve United’s 2-0 lead — and yes, perhaps, to give him a suitable send-off — Rooney put in one crunching tackle before the final whistle. United’s record goalscorer may have bowed out with a trophy, at least.


Saturday’s FA Cup final at Wembley Stadium represents two managers and clubs in very different positions.
Chelsea boss Antonio Conte has just won the domestic title and is on the verge of becoming the first manager in his first year to win a Premier League and  FA Cup double. Arsene Wenger, meanwhile, is looking to the  FA Cup as a consolation after Arsenal failed to qualify for the Champions League for the first time in 19 years.
Conte and  Wenger have faced the media to talk about their respective clubs’ seasons, their chances in Saturday’s final, summer transfers, plus security at Wembley following the Manchester attacks. Here,  Newsweek  picks out the key topics the two men have been discussing.
On injuries
Wenger: “Gabriel is out for 6-8 weeks. We had a scare about his cruciate but it’s medial. He avoids surgery.
“Alexis Sanchez is OK, Oxlade-Chamberlain is in contention for final. [Shkodran] Mustafi is still sick and hasn’t trained yet.”
Conte:  “Everyone is good.
“In a final it's not important to miss one, two players. It's important to play with the right hunger, will, desire."
On Saturday’s final
Wenger:  “I just want to win the cup. The team has addressed the situation on the sporting side and that would be a good crowning of the last two months. The players really want to win something. If I have some benefit on top of that too it’s OK.”
Conte: “It's important to keep the right concentration. In this aspect, we start as underdogs because we face a team that lost Champions League football.
“To play at Wembley is a fantastic experience for me and my players, above all if the stadium is full. We have to try to put our best."
On their futures
Wenger: “I do not know if it will be my last match at Arsenal—but it will not be my last match whatever happens because I will stay in football.”
Conte: "I don't trust that tomorrow will be the last game for Arsene.
“For sure. When you stay in the same team for such a long time, we must consider him one of the best.
“I have two years contract with the club. Then if they give me possibility to stay, I'm available to do this.”
On qualifying for the Champions League. Or not…
Wenger: “It’s not only about money. We are in a much better position. I guided this club for years with very limited resources and we had to sell our best players. Some clubs are stronger financially. We have a strong enough basic squad to compete at top level.”
Conte: “Only this year Arsenal missed out on the CL. For 19 years they played in this competition and this shows his [Wenger’s] work.”
On the attacks in Manchester
Wenger: “I was in Paris in November for the attacks. It’s a huge shock and our solidarity and compassion is with the city of Manchester.”
Conte:  “Before we start the press conference, we don't forget what happened in Manchester. We are very close to the people who died.”
On security at Wembley
Wenger:  “Usually when you are involved you don’t realise what is happening all around, we are in a bubble and isolated from all that but you want of course the best level of security.”
Conte:  “This situation creates difficulty in your mind, but if we think we are always in danger, we are dead before we die.”
On the summer transfer window
Wenger:  “[We are] not braced to lose players. We have nobody at the end of contracts. That will be completely our decision.
“I believe we have a big job to do in the summer. We want to keep players like Alexis and all the speculation can happen.”
Conte:  “We have to finish this season, but we’ve started to work for next season. We have the same point of view [Chelsea and Conte].
“For sure, we’ll try to strengthen our squad because we have to face an important competition in the Champions League.”


Formula One’s finest will line up on the grid in the streets of Monaco on Sunday for the most highly anticipated race of the season.
The championship has been held since 1929 at the Circuit de Monaco in the south of France. It is considered the hardest course to overtake because of its narrow streets.
Championship leader  Sebastian Vettel of Ferrari finished fastest in practice on Thursday, while his closest rival,  Lewis Hamilton of Mercedes, ended the session in eighth place.
Here,  Newsweek  looks at how the contenders for the top of the podium got on in last year’s race.
Ferrari’s resurgence this season should see Vettel threaten to improve on the fourth-place finish he had last year. In Monaco, qualifying is vital for a good starting position on the grid because of the narrow track around the streets. The car failed to deliver for the German, who started and finished the race in fourth and was unable to thwart Sergio Perez’s Force India, which finished third. The four-time world champion will expect to start at the front of the grid after proving fastest in practice on Thursday.
The Monaco Grand Prix tends to attract celebrities, and 2016 was no different. When  Hamilton climbed past teammate and championship rival Nico Rosberg (the eventual world champion) and Daniel Ricciardo to finish first, he was met at the podium by pop star Justin Bieber, and the two men shared champagne. Hamilton had capitalized on Ricciardo of Red Bull after a slow pit stop and defended his position for 45 laps to win his first race of the season and reignite a title charge with Rosberg. But the Briton will have to improve this weekend after being eighth-fastest in practice.
Bottas’ chances of a podium finish in Monaco have increased dramatically from last year, after he traded Williams for Mercedes. Bottas started 10th on the grid and dropped to 11th after being overtaken by then-teammate Felipe Massa. Despite being in the better car, the Finnish driver was 10th fastest in practice on Thursday, 0.025 seconds slower than Hamilton.
Second in the championship before the race in Monaco last year,  Raikkonen was one of the favorites to take the checkered flag. But while his teammate Vettel had a frustrating day, Raikkonen’s was awful. The Finnish driver, who is fourth in the standing this year, crashed into the walls at the hairpin in Monaco and had to retire early despite trying to drive on with his front wing scraping along the street. On Thursday, Raikkonen was third-fastest in practice ahead of Saturday’s qualifying.
Despite finishing third last year, Ricciardo left the racetrack furious with his team. The Australian had started the race in pole position and at one point built up a lead of 13.1 seconds on Nico Rosberg. Mercedes ordered Rosberg to allow his teammate Hamilton to pass him and put the pressure on the  Red Bull driver. Hamilton could only take two seconds off Ricciardo, but then the Australian was called into the pit lane by Red Bull—and the team didn’t have the tires ready. Hamilton passed Ricciardo as he exited the pits. “Nothing you could say would make that any better. Save it,” Ricciardo said over the team radio.
Just two weeks after Max Verstappen’s dream start at Red Bull by winning the Spanish Grand Prix, the teenage driver crashed heavily into the walls. It was a reminder to the Formula One world that although Verstappen’s talent was clear, he was far from a finished product. This week, the 19-year-old finished sixth in practice, the same position he holds in the driver standings.


LeBron James, the Cleveland Cavaliers small forward, broke a long-standing NBA record Wednesday when he scored his 5,989th career playoff point.
With a three-pointer in the third quarter of Game 5 of the Eastern Conference Finals at TD Garden,  James passed  Michael Jordan’s total of 5987.
Jordan famously set his mark with the final shot of his postseason career, a jump shot that gave the Chicago Bulls victory over Utah Jazz with 5.2 seconds remaining of Game Six of the NBA Finals in Salt Lake City on June 14, 1998.
Take a look at both shots below—James’s is at two minutes, 37 seconds. The 13-times All Star will appear in his seventh consecutive NBA Finals, and his third successive against Golden State Warriors, after his 35 points powered the Cavaliers past the Boston Celtics 135-102 in Game 5 to take the series 4-1.




Antonio Conte will walk out at Wembley Stadium on Saturday afternoon aiming to become the first manager to win a Premier League and FA Cup double in his first season in English football.
His  Chelsea team stormed to the domestic title, winning 30 of a possible 38 games that is the second most in the  Premier League. Conte did so with a constant core to his starting lineup.
But, ahead of the FA Cup final against  Ars è ne Wenger’s Arsenal, he has decisions to make. Here,  Newsweek  looks at how the Italian may put out his team.
Thibaut Courtois will be one of the first names on Conte’s team sheet. The Belgian goalkeeper featured in all but two of the matches in Chelsea’s title-winning campaign, with Asmir Begovic deputizing due to a sprained ankle. Courtois picked up the Golden Glove award after keeping 16 clean sheets this season.
Conte got sentimentality out of the way in Chelsea’s final game of the Premier League season. Club captain  John Terry started the game against Sunderland but was substituted after 26 minutes, and given a guard of honor in what was his farewell from the club he has been part of for 22 years. So, the Italian can stick with his trusted 3-4-3: David Luiz at the center of a back-three with Cesar Azpilicueta and Gary Cahill either side of him. In the wing back positions, Victor Moses will finish the season in his new position, having been Conte’s most miraculous work at Chelsea, and Marcos Alonso on the left.
Read More:   How Arsenal and Chelsea Compare in FA Cup Finals
Here, Conte has his biggest decision to make. Does he look to go on the attack by starting former Arsenal midfielder Cesc Fabregas, who has been a key member of the Chelsea team this season despite starting much of the campaign on the bench? Or, does he opt for conservatism in the shape of the imposing and powerful screen of Nemanja Matic? Double Player of the Year winner N’Golo Kante is certain to start against a team that could — and should — have signed him last summer.
With 21 goals this season, Diego Costa will surely start for Chelsea, right? Possibly not. The last time Conte sat in the dugout at Wembley Stadium, he had Costa sat behind him on the substitutes’ bench. The Italian chose Michy Batshuayi for the FA Cup semifinal against Tottenham, and Chelsea advanced to the final. Since then, the 23-year-old Belgian has scored four times in the last three games, giving his manager a decision to make ahead of Saturday.
Eden Hazard will likely start on the left side of attack, but Conte has switched between options on the right side throughout the season. He has preferred the Spaniard Pedro, who has made 42 appearances but Brazilian Willian has also featured 40 times, most of which came from the bench.


With a Champions League campaign to come next season, Manchester United will target quality over quantity in its summer transfer dealings.
That’s according to a  BBC report that claims manager  Jose Mourinho will make “three or four” summer signings including a world-class striker, as he attempts to make  United a viable challenger for the Premier League title once again.
Here’s how United could look next season if Mourinho spends the reported £200 million available to him.
Goalkeeper
Mourinho would like  Jan Oblak  to replace  David De Gea if the Spaniard leaves for Real Madrid but Paris Saint-Germain could scupper his plans with an offer of £52 million to blow United out of the water.  Kasper Schmeichel,  of Leicester City, may be a more realistic option that would allow Mourinho to spend some of the De Gea fee on other areas of his squad.
Defense
Antonio Valencia will remain the first-choice right back but it’s next to him that things get interesting. According to the BBC, Mourinho would like  Michael Keane  of Burnley to partner  Eric Bailly  at center back. He also needs a left back amid uncertainty around  Luke Shaw  but may have been priced out of a move for A.S. Monaco’s  Benjamin Mendy .
Midfield
United’s midfield lacks balance when  Paul Pogba  and  Marouane Fellaini  play ahead of  Ander Herrera .  Michael Carrick remains a technically gifted footballer but lacks the energy to make up for Pogba’s forays forward. Mourinho needs a battler and a runner to provide a defensive screen alongside Herrera so a  reported link with Paris Saint-Germain’s elegant, dynamic midfielder  Blaise Matuidi  is intriguing.
Attack
Antoine Griezmann  rates his chance of a move to Old Trafford this summer at a platry “six out of ten” but if he did come where would he play? The France international has turned himself into a deep-lying striker for Atletico Madrid in the past two seasons so perhaps Mourinho could bring in Griezmann  and  Andrea Belotti, a traditional No. 9 who could lead the line. The prolific Torino striker continues to be linked with a move to Manchester.  Anthony Martial, Marcus Rashford, Juan Mata  and  Jesse Lingard provide options for the left flank of a 4-3-3 formation.
Manchester United’s possible starting lineup, 2017-18:  Kasper Schmeichel-Antonio Valencia, Michael Keane, Eric Bailly, Luke Shaw-Ander Herrera, Blaise Matuidi-Paul Pogba-Anthony Martial, Andrea Belotti, Antoine Griezmann.


Cleveland forward LeBron James moved past Hall of Famer Michael Jordan as the leading scorer in NBA playoff history on his way to helping the Cavaliers ease into a third successive NBA Finals series on Thursday.
James needed 28 points to surpass Jordan (5,987 points), as he entered Game Five of the Eastern Conference Finals against the Boston Celtics and reached the milestone in style late in the third quarter with a three-point jump shot.
James celebrated the record by raising his right index finger to signal No. 1, but quickly retreated to the backcourt to defend as the game continued.
The three-pointer put the Cavaliers up by 32 points.
James promptly knocked down two more three-pointers before the end of the third period.
With victory in the bag, he sat out the fourth quarter as the Cavaliers routed the Celtics 135-102 to clinch the best-of-seven series 4-1, and set up a third successive championship series against the Golden State Warriors.
The 32-year-old James, who is seeking a fourth NBA title, took 212 post-season games to surpass Jordan, a six-time champion who played 179 playoff games.
James said he was honored to pass Jordan, his boyhood idol.
"I think first of all I wear the number (23) because of Mike," he told reporters after finishing the game with 35 points to take his total to 5,995 points.
"I think I fell in love with the game because of Mike, but when you're growing up and seeing Michael Jordan it's almost like a god, so I never did believe I could be Mike.
"The biggest thing for me sitting here after breaking the all-time scoring record in playoff history, is I did it just being me.
"I don't have to score to make an impact on a game and that was my mindset when I started playing, if I'm not scoring how can I still make an impact on the game?
"It's carried me to this point now and it's going to carry me for the rest of my career because scoring is not No. 1 on my agenda."

