
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday that Russia would not prevent its athletes from competing at the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics if they so desired.
Putin added that Russia accepted some responsibility for the International Olympic Committee (IOC) decision to ban the country from the upcoming Games but said the accusations against Russian athletes banned for alleged doping violations were baseless.
The IOC on Tuesday banned Russia from the Olympics after evidence emerged of an “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of the anti-doping system.
The door was left open, however, for Russians to compete as an “Olympic Athlete of Russia” as long as they satisfy strict conditions that show they have a doping-free background.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday questioned why the country’s competitors at the Winter Olympics next year will not be able to compete under the Russian flag, Russian news agencies reported.


LAUSANNE, Switzerland (Reuters) - Pyeongchang 2018 daily ticket sales have tripled since the start of the Olympic torch relay in South Korea last month with the International Olympic Committee (IOC) hopeful of 90 percent of them being sold by the start of the Winter Games on Feb. 9.
Organizers have so far sold about half of the expected 1.1 million ticket target after months of lagging sales.
But IOC Olympic Games Executive Director Christophe Dubi said on Wednesday the numbers had picked up in the first Asian country outside Japan to host the Winter Games since the flame arrived in South Korea from ancient Olympia on Nov. 1.
“We discussed about the ticketing situation, which is improving,” Dubi said after a progress report on the Pyeongchang Games to the IOC Executive Board.
“It is true we can see a big difference in tickets sales on a daily basis. Sales have tripled from prior to the torch relay,” he said.
Low numbers in the previous months triggered alarm bells among organizers who decided to enforce a back-up plan of mobilizing 17 local governments and schools to boost sales.
“We are now at 55 percent. We average 1,200 a day without counting school sales,” Dubi said.
“We have to trust the Koreans. They said there would be a last minute surge of sales. The intention is to get to 90 percent at the start of the Games which would be a fabulous result.”
The run-up to the Games has been overshadowed by the ongoing crisis on the Korean peninsula and the IOC decision on Tuesday to ban Russia from the Games over “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of the anti-doping system.
Political tension has risen in recent months with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and U.S. President Donald Trump exchanging threats and insults over the North’s nuclear missile development program.


JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - Local favorite Louis Oosthuizen has pulled out of the Johannesburg Open starting on Thursday after a freak accident that will go down as one of sport’s more unusual injuries.
The 2010 British Open champion hurt his fingers when they were caught between two airport trollies as he returned to South Africa from competing at the Mauritius Open this past weekend.
Oosthuizen, who is in severe pain and unable to grip his clubs, said he did not want to risk starting a tournament he could not finish and deny another player the chance to compete.
“This morning is even worse than it was yesterday, so I tried to grip a golf club but there’s no way I can go to my grip position,” he said in a news conference on Wednesday.
“It’s a bit of an unfortunate one, but I don’t want to tee off Thursday and play one hole or a few shots and then withdraw after taking someone’s spot. You know, I just can’t do that. So, I’m going to have to withdraw from this one.”
Cody Martin of the United States has been drafted into Oosthuizen’s three-ball that also includes last week’s winner in Mauritius, Dylan Frittelli, and Jazz Janewattananond of Thailand.
The Joburg Open at the Royal Johannesburg & Kensington Golf Club is part of the European Tour’s International Schedule, co-sanctioned by the Asian Tour and South Africa’s Sunshine Tour.


ZURICH (Reuters) - Kuwait can return to international football following an absence of more than two years after FIFA lifted a ban on the country’s football association on Wednesday.
Kuwait was suspended in October 2015 over a government bill which the global soccer body said interfered in the independence of the country’s FA and fell foul of the FIFA statutes.
FIFA said in a statement that the lifting of the ban followed official confirmation “that the Kuwait Parliament has adopted a new Sports Law of Kuwait, which replaces all the previous ones and has been amended in order to be fully compliant with the FIFA Statutes and requirements.”
The lifting of the ban means Kuwait’s national teams and clubs can take part in international competition again and it again becomes eligible for FIFA grants.


LAUSANNE, Switzerland (Reuters) - Russia has been banned from the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics after the IOC found evidence of an “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of the anti-doping system that has led to a series of suspensions for the country’s athletes in recent months.
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) did not impose a blanket ban on Russia ahead of the Rio 2016 Summer Games but said on Tuesday that the evidence unearthed by the Schmid Commission made the doping situation impossible to dispute.
It therefore suspended Russia, which finished top of the medals table at its own 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, from next year’s Games in South Korea that run from Feb. 9-25
However, in a bid to protect “innocent athletes” the door has been left open for Russians to compete as an “Olympic Athlete of Russia”, as long as they satisfy strict conditions that show they have a doping-free background.
The IOC also decided to suspend Russian Olympic Committee (ROC) president Alexander Zhukov as an IOC member, while   Russian Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Mutko, sports minister at the time of the Sochi Games, was also banned from any future participation at the Olympics.
Former Switzerland President Samuel Schmid told a news conference his report focusing on allegations of government involvement in Russian doping at the Sochi Games confirmed “the systematic manipulation of the anti-doping rules and system”.
The results were not based only on testimony by Russia’s former anti-doping chief-turned-whistleblower Grigory Rodchenkov. There was also scientific evidence, witness statements documents and correspondence, he said.
“The facts are that in Russia there was systemic manipulation of doping and the anti-doping system... that also took place at Sochi 2014,” added Schmid.
IOC President Thomas Bach said: ”Today we gave the Russian delegation the opportunity to express themselves. In this meeting this afternoon the president of ROC (Russian Olympic Committee) has apologized.
“As a former athlete I am feeling very sorry for all the clean athletes who are suffering from this manipulation... but because we are allowing clean athletes to participate they can set about building a bridge for the future (rather) than erecting a new wall between Russia and the Olympic movement.”
Zhukov described the IOC decision as contradictory. “There are positive and negative sides,” he said. “The IOC has allowed all clean athletes in all sports.”
Other Russians were more forthright, with Alexei Kravtsov, president of the Russian Skating Union, saying: ”The decision is offensive, insulting and completely unjustified.
“I consider that this decision will deal a great blow to the whole Olympic movement.”
Alexei Kurashov, president of the Russian freestyle federation, added: ”The Olympic movement has discredited itself and there will be fundamental consequences to this.
“These are not the principles of Olympism. I can’t say that the activities of the IOC are honest.”
“WELCOME STEP”
U.S. Senator John McCain, a frequent critic of the Kremlin, praised the IOC announcement.
“The International Olympic decision to ban Russia from the 2018 Winter Olympics is a welcome step in serving justice to Vladimir Putin’s government for its elaborate doping scheme in 2014,” he said in a statement.
“Today’s announcement sends an important message to Putin’s Russia that being a member of the international community means abiding by rules, norms, and standards - and that anything less will not be tolerated.”
The IOC’s decision comes 18 months after it decided not to impose an outright ban on Russian athletes ahead of Rio and told international sports federations to decide individually on the participation of Russians at the Olympics in Brazil.
While all of Russia’s track and field athletes bar one and the weightlifting team were banned from Rio, about 70 percent of Russia’s original 387-strong squad took part at those Games.
Bach said on Tuesday, however, that the situation was different now.
“(Ahead of Rio) there was no opportunity to hear the Russian side and at the time of Rio it was mainly about the failure in the Moscow lab. Now it’s about the manipulation of an Olympic lab. The conditions then and now are totally different.”
The Schmid report said the IOC had “not found any documented, independent and impartial evidence confirming the support or the knowledge of this (anti-doping manipulation) system by the highest State authority” after Richard McLaren’s independent report for the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) had said the Russian government and secret service were involved.
McLaren’s report in 2016 found more than 1,000 Russian competitors in over 30 sports had been involved in a conspiracy to conceal positive drug tests over a five-year period.
In the last month, the IOC’s own commission has banned more than 20 Russian athletes from the Olympics for life over doping violations at the Sochi Games, while the country’s athletics federation remains banned from that sport.
McLaren welcomed Tuesday’s decision, saying: ”By holding Russia accountable for its actions, which date back at least to the (2012) London Games and continued through the Sochi Games, the sports community is demonstrating its commitment to ensuring athletes benefit from an even playing field and drug-free competition.
“This decision further confirms the conclusions of my investigation, and I wish to thank all those who helped me with my work -- some of whom did so at great personal risk.”
World Anti-Doping Agency president Craig Reedie said the IOC had taken an informed decision to sanction Russia for its involvement “in institutionalized manipulation of the doping control process before, during and after the 2014 Sochi Olympic Games”.
Travis Tygart CEO of the United States Anti-Doping Agency said: “Over the past three years, a high stakes game of chicken has been played between those willing to sacrifice the Olympic ideals by employing a state-directed doping program to cheat to win and, on the other side, athletes unwilling to stand silent while their hopes and dreams were stolen and the Olympic Games hijacked. Today the IOC listened to those who matter most – and clean athletes won a significant victory.”
The decision comes seven months before Russia hosts the soccer World Cup, though Bach declined to comment on what, if any, impact Tuesday’s decision might have on that tournament.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - A decision by the International Olympic Committee to bar Russia’s team from next year’s Winter Olympics is part of a larger international campaign to pressure Russia, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Wednesday.
She told a news conference that because attempts to isolate Russia economically and politically had failed, the focus of Russia’s adversaries had switched to sport instead.


ZURICH (Reuters) - Twenty-two Russian athletes banned for life by the International Olympic Committee for doping offences at the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics are appealing their ban, the Court of Arbitration for Sport said on Wednesday.
Their appeal comes a day after the IOC banned Russia from next year’s Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, allowing only invited clean athletes to participate as neutrals.
“The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) has registered 22 appeals filed by Russian athletes against decisions taken by the Disciplinary Commission of the International Olympic Committee,” CAS said.
It said the athletes had asked CAS to rule before the start of the Feb. 9-25 Pyeongchang Olympics in South Korea.
Among those appealing are gold medalist bobsledders Aleksandr Zubkov and Dmitry Trunenkov, cross-country gold medalist Alexander Legkov and champion skeleton racer Aleksander Tretiakov.
The IOC found the athletes violated anti-doping rules as part of a wider, systematic doping effort by Russia at the Sochi Games. It barred them from the events they had competed in, confiscated all medals they had won and banned them from taking part in any future Olympic games.
Lifetime Olympic bans have been overturned at CAS in the past, with the court ruling that athletes who had been suspended for doping could not be punished again by being left out of the Olympics.
The 22 Russians are set to miss February’s Games whatever happens, because doping violations carry bans of two to four years for first-time offenders.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Tuesday’s National Hockey League games:
Kings 5, Wild 2
Marian Gaborik scored two third-period goals, the second representing the 400th of his NHL career, and the Los Angeles Kings came from behind to win their sixth consecutive game, 5-2 over the Minnesota Wild on Tuesday night.
Jake Muzzin had a goal and an assist, Drew Doughty had three assists and Jonathan Quick made 19 saves for Los Angeles. Gaborik scored the first goal in Wild history and remains the franchise leader in several categories.
Anze Kopitar recorded an assist -- the 500th of his career -- and scored an empty-net goal with 56 seconds left.
Charlie Coyle and Tyler Ennis scored and Dubnyk made 23 saves for Minnesota.
Lightning 6, Islanders 2
Yanni Gourde scored twice in 94 seconds to snap a 2-2 tie as Tampa Bay defeated New York in a matchup of the league’s top scoring teams.
Brayden Point, Andrej Sustr, Vladislav Namestnikov and Chris Kunitz also scored for the Lightning, who have 100 goals this season -- one more than the Islanders. Andrei Vasilevskiy made 29 saves to earn his league-leading 18th victory.
Mathew Barzal and Jordan Eberle scored, and Thomas Greiss stopped 26 shots for New York.
Rangers 4, Penguins 3
Pavel Buchnevich scored the tiebreaking goal with 8:48 left as New York halted Pittsburgh’s four-game winning streak.
Buchnevich attempted a pass across the slot, but the puck hit the stick of the Penguins’ Kris Letang and sailed over the glove of Tristan Jarry (25 saves) to break a 3-3 tie. Ondrej Pavelec, who was pegged to start in net when Henrik Lundqvist developed a flu-like illness, stopped 41 shots for the Rangers, who have won six of their past seven and 12 of 15.
Patrik Hornqvist scored for the fourth consecutive game for Pittsburgh.
Devils 4, Blue Jackets 1
Taylor Hall and Stefan Noesen scored second-period goals to propel New Jersey over Columbus.
Travis Zajac and Jesper Bratt scored, and Nico Hischier collected two assists for the Devils, who moved into first place in the Metropolitan Division ahead of the Blue Jackets. Cory Schneider stopped 41 shots to earn his 100th victory with New Jersey.
Nick Foligno scored for the Blue Jackets. Oliver Bjorkstrand and Seth Jones picked up assists while Sergei Bobrovsky made 32 saves for Columbus.
Predators 5, Stars 2
Juuse Saros stopped 43 shots as Nashville crushed Dallas.
Kevin Fiala, Cody McLeod, Pontus Aberg, Kyle Turris and Calle Jarnkrok each scored for the Predators, who jumped out to a 5-0 lead en route to their third consecutive victory. Turris added an assist and Mattias Ekholm had two assists for Nashville.
Stephen Johns and Jamie Oleksiak scored for the Stars, who saw their five-game winning streak snapped. Kari Lehtonen stopped 15 of 17 shots in relief of Ben Bishop.
Red Wings 5, Jets 1
Gustav Nyquist recorded two goals and an assist, and Jimmy Howard made 25 saves as Detroit snapped a seven-game losing streak.
Justin Abdelkader, Darren Helm and David Booth also scored for the Red Wings, who had gone 0-4-3 since a 3-1 victory over the Buffalo Sabres on Nov. 17. Detroit came into the Tuesday game off its worst loss in four years, a 10-1 drubbing Saturday in Montreal.
Patrik Laine scored his 14th goal of the season for the Jets, who are 0-2-1 in their last three road games. Connor Hellebuyck stopped 27 shots for Winnipeg.
Golden Knights 4, Ducks 3 (SO)
Alex Tuch scored on a backhand for the only goal in the shootout to give Vegas a victory over Anaheim.
James Neal, Oscar Lindberg and Erik Haula scored in regulation for the Golden Knights, who improved to 11-2-0 at home this season. Malcolm Subban stopped 26 shots for Vegas.
Francois Beauchemin, Antoine Vermette and Perry scored for the Ducks. John Gibson made 40 saves for Anaheim.
Blues 4, Canadiens 3
Brayden Schenn scored three goals as St. Louis stopped a three-game slide and ended Montreal’s five-game winning streak.
Scottie Upshall also scored for the Blues and Jake Allen made 22 saves.
Shea Weber scored two goals, including the 500th point of his career, and Jordie Benn scored for the Canadiens. Carey Price made 26 saves. It was Price’s first loss since returning from a lower-body injury six games ago.
Sabres 4, Avalanche 2
Jack Eichel had a goal and two assists, and Jake McCabe and Benoit Pouliot had a goal and assist apiece as Buffalo snapped a four-game losing streak.
Evander Kane scored a tiebreaking goal in the third period and Robin Lehner had 35 saves and for the Sabres.
Nathan MacKinnon scored two power-play goals, Alexander Kerfoot had two assists and Semyon Varlamov stopped 31 shots for the Avalanche. Colorado has lost three straight and dropped four of five on their homestand.
Canucks 3, Hurricanes 0
Jacob Markstrom stopped 30 shots for his first career shutout and defenseman Derrick Pouliot scored a goal and added two assists as Vancouver defeated Carolina.
Thomas Vanek and Nikolay Goldobin also scored for the Canucks, who won their third consecutive game. Markstrom’s shutout came in his 129th game and 115th start.


(Reuters) - The postponed rematch between former heavyweight world champion David Haye and fellow Briton Tony Bellew has been scheduled for May 5 at the O2 Arena in London, according to promoter Eddie Hearn.
Bellew beat Haye after a thrilling 11-round bout in March and their rematch was scheduled for Dec. 17 but the 37-year-old Haye pulled out after suffering a bicep injury in a freak accident.
“I‘m thrilled to confirm that the rematch between myself and Tony Bellew will take place on Saturday 5th May, returning to The O2 Arena,” Haye told promoter Hearn’s website Matchroom Boxing.
“Tony has boasted that the rematch gives him the opportunity to force me into retirement. Unquestionably, I step into the ring in May with both my career and legacy on the line.”
WBC cruiserweight world champion Bellew has also vowed to end the career of compatriot Tyson Fury, who is hopeful of returning to the ring next year.
“I‘m pleased to get a new date in the diary and I look forward to giving boxing fans a great night on May 5... my mind is still very much on this fight and I will punish him,” Bellew said.
“I now have a very clear plan for 2018 and that is to knock out David Haye and then knock out Tyson ‘Stavros Flatley’ Fury and end both their careers...”
Former world heavyweight champion Fury is waiting for the conclusion of a UK Anti-Doping hearing and is yet to renew his boxing license.


LAUSANNE, Switzerland (Reuters) - Following are the key findings of a report by the IOC disciplinary commission, headed by former Switzerland President and Federal Council member Samuel Schmid, that led to Russia being banned from the Pyeongchang Games on Tuesday.
The commission based its findings on an independent report by Canadian lawyer Richard McLaren that was commissioned by the World Anti-Doping Agency and published last year.
Russia has denied that the state was involved in doping cover-ups.
* The commission confirmed that the Russian authorities developed a system that allowed a Moscow laboratory to routinely change positive test results to negative, as well as to tamper with samples during the Sochi Games in 2014.
It said this confirmed the “unprecedented nature of the cheating scheme and, as a consequence, the exceptional damage to the integrity of the IOC, the Olympic Games and the entire Olympic Movement.”
However, the commission said it had not found “any documented, independent and impartial evidence confirming the support or the knowledge of this system by the highest State authority.”
* Thirty-four Russian athletes tested positive in re-analysis of samples from the 2008 and 2012 Olympics, the commission said. This confirmed “a widespread culture of doping in Russia, affecting numerous sports for a long period of time.”
* The commission said it found “some similarities” with the doping situation in the former East Germany but “considers that the system in the former GDR was different from the one described.”
* The commission said it was able to confirm allegations that some individuals received payments to conceal positive doping tests, having previously encouraged athletes to purchase doping substances.
* Before around 2011-12, athletes were obliged to purchase doping products, pay to cover up their individual test results or both, the commission said. Afterwards, the program covered the costs of the manipulation of the doping tests.
* The commission said that the system progressed along with anti-doping technologies. It began with deceit on the reporting system, escalated with the creation of false biological profiles and ended with the tampering of samples.
* The commission said that evidence in the McLaren report showed “failure to respect the WADA Code within the various entities under the responsibility of the Russian Ministry of Sport.”
It said that ”the then Russian Minister had the ultimate administrative responsibility for the acts perpetrated at the time within the Russian Ministry or the entities under its responsibility.
* The commission noted that the McLaren Report did not mention that the Russian Olympic Committee (ROC) participated in the system. However, it said that “the ROC must be held legally responsible for the breach of its legal and contractual obligations.”


TORONTO (Reuters) - The Seattle Sounders hope to silence critics in Saturday’s MLS Cup rematch with Toronto FC following last year’s triumph on penalty kicks after they failed to put a single shot on goal during regulation.
During last year’s final, an energetic Toronto side pushed forward for set pieces while Seattle seemed more content to pick their spots on the counter but ultimately set an MLS Cup record with no shots on target.
“Certainly for the soccer pundits, for the sportscasters, for some of the people that classified our win last year as ‘no shots on goal,’ sure I’d like to silence some of those critics,” Seattle coach Brian Schmetzer told a conference call on Tuesday.
“But we never do not try and go out and score. We don’t bunker in for 90 minutes because we understand that that’s the way you don’t win soccer games.”
Toronto will again host Seattle in the MLS Cup and both teams are expecting a more open contest than last year but the Sounders are mindful of letting the game get away from them.
Seattle goalkeeper Stefan Frei said his team are at their best when they are defensively sound and so will do their best to avoid getting into a back-and-forth match with Toronto and risk opening up space for Jozy Altidore and Sebastian Giovinco.
“We’re going to want to stay compact and organized and make it difficult for them but also take care of our chances when we get them,” said Swiss Frei, who was named the MLS Cup Most Valuable Player last year.
“Does that mean we are going to try and go for 0-0? No, not at all. We are going to try to be organized but definitely carve out some chances, hopefully more than last year.”
Italian Giovinco and American Altidore combined for 42 percent of their team’s goals during the regular season, but the dynamic duo will have their hands full against the Sounders.
Seattle have not conceded in a playoff record 647 minutes dating back to the first leg of the 2016 Western Conference Championship — a streak of nearly seven matches — and have not allowed a goal in their last 542 minutes dating back to their match with the Philadelphia Union on Oct. 1.
But Altidore, who shrugged off an ankle injury to score the goal that put Toronto into a second consecutive MLS Cup final, said he is not concerning himself with Seattle’s string of shutouts.
“It’s a final, it’s a different game,” said Altidore.
“Everything you’ve done up until this game, I‘m not going to say it goes out the window entirely, but it’s just a different animal now than the games before.”


MOSCOW (Reuters) - The President of Russia’s Olympic Committee, Alexander Zhukov, said on Tuesday that Russian athletes will appeal the International Olympic Committee (IOC) ban from the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics at the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS), R-Sport news agency reported.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian bobsleigh federation president Alexander Zubkov said on Tuesday he was shocked by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) decision to ban Russia from the 2018 Pyeongchang Olympics.
“I am simply shocked by what is happening and what happened and by Thomas Bach’s decision regarding our country and our athletes,” Zubkov told Reuters.
Zubkov was stripped last month of the two gold medals he won at the 2014 Sochi Games and banned from the Olympics for life over alleged doping violations.
He says he is innocent and has vowed to appeal the bans against Russian bobsledders at the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS).


MOSCOW (Reuters) - The head of Russia’s curling federation on Tuesday slammed the IOC decision to ban Russia from the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics as unprofessional.
“I consider that the IOC’s decision is unprofessional,” the federation’s president, Dmitry Svishchev, told Reuters. “I am profoundly convinced that it was made under pressure. Someone needed Russia not to participate in the Games.”


MOSCOW (Reuters) - The Russian Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday Russia would not be rattled by the International Olympic Committee’s (IOC) decision to ban it from the upcoming winter Olympics and would survive the ordeal.
It was responding after the IOC said on Tuesday that Russia had been banned from the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics after evidence emerged of an “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of the anti-doping system.
“We can never be knocked down,” Maria Zakharova, a ministry spokeswoman, wrote on social media. “Not by a world war, not by the collapse of the Soviet Union, not by sanctions. We take it and we survive.”


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian ice hockey star Ilya Kovalchuk on Tuesday told his country’s clean athletes to make sure they took part in the 2018 Pyeongchang winter Olympics if they satisfied strict conditions that showed they had a doping-free background.
He was speaking after the International Olympic Committee (IOC) said on Tuesday it had banned Russia from the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics after evidence emerged of an “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of the anti-doping system.
“We all perfectly understand that the IOC decision is pure politics and we understand against whom it is directed,” Kovalchuk told the R-Sport news agency.
“It was clear that there would be such a decision. But if the athletes go there, it will unite the country. All clean athletes must go.”


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian state television holding VGTRK said on Tuesday it would not broadcast the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in the absence of Russia’s national team, Interfax news agency reported.
Russia’s Olympic Committee (ROC) has been banned from the Pyeongchang Games after a prolonged doping scandal but some athletes will be allowed to compete under the tag of “Olympic Athlete of Russia.”


(Reuters) - The New York Rangers, worth $1.5 billion, are the most valuable franchise in the National Hockey League for a third consecutive year, according to the annual list published by business magazine Forbes on Tuesday.
The Rangers are worth nearly triple the average of the NHL’s 31 teams, which Forbes said rose 15 percent to $594 million due in part to the $500 million expansion fee that was paid by the expansion Vegas Golden Knights, who were 14th on the list.
The Toronto Maple Leafs, who were rated the most valuable franchise from 2005-14, moved up a spot from last year to No 2 with a value of $1.4 billion.
The Montreal Canadiens ($1.25 billion), Chicago Blackhawks ($1 billion) and Boston Bruins ($890 million) rounded out the top five while the reigning back-to-back Stanley Cup champions Pittsburgh Penguins ($650 million) were 10th on the list.
According to Forbes, the big market NHL teams have received a boost to their values from what they called the ever-increasing premium being paid for teams in all the major sports.
For the complete list visit www.Forbes.com/NHL-valuations.


LONDON (Reuters) - Australian Daniel Ricciardo replaced Red Bull team mate Max Verstappen as Formula One’s pass master in 2017 but the season saw half the number of overtaking moves following the introduction of faster and wider cars.
According to figures released by tyre supplier Pirelli on Tuesday, there were a total of 435 overtakes over the 20 races. In 2016, when there were 21 rounds, the sport racked up 866 moves.
That worked out at an average of 21.8 per race in 2017, compared to 41.2 last year.
Azerbaijan Grand Prix winner Ricciardo made 43 overtakes, including 13 at Silverstone where he went from 19th on the  British GP starting grid to finish fifth.
Verstappen, who topped last year’s Pirelli statistics with 78 passes in a season that also brought him a first victory, managed only 22 this time around.
On the plus side, the 20-year-old Dutch driver tied with Mercedes’ four times world champion Lewis Hamilton as the drivers who were overtaken least (twice in total).
The likely lack of overtaking had been flagged up before the season as a consequence of Formula One’s new-look cars which were faster through corners but harder to get past on slower circuits like Monaco.
The worst race for passing was the Russian Grand Prix, with just one overtake registered, while the liveliest was Azerbaijan’s chaotic race with 42.
Red Bull were the team with the most overtakes and, along with championship runners-up Ferrari, the ones who were passed the least.
An overtaking maneuver was deemed to be one that occurred during a complete fast lap, but not the first of any race. Any position changes due to major mechanical problems or drivers being lapped were not included.
Pirelli said pole position in 2017 was on average 2.450 seconds faster than in 2016, and the fastest race lap was on average 2.968 seconds quicker.
The highest speed recorded was 362.4 kph by Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel in Mexico.
Next season will see an even faster tyre introduced, with softer compounds generally.


ADELAIDE (Reuters) - James Anderson took five for 43 as England continued their bowling resurgence to dismiss Australia for 138 just before tea on Tuesday and set themselves an imposing victory target of 354 over the last five sessions of the second Ashes test.
Although the hosts managed to add only 85 runs to their overnight tally in bright sunshine at Adelaide Oval, that was enough to push their lead well past the record successful fourth innings run chase at the ground of 315.
Anderson picked up where he left off in Monday’s night session with a superb display of seam bowling to dismiss nightwatchman Nathan Lyon, a jittery Peter Handscomb and Mitchell Starc.
Chris Woakes (4-36) chipped in to see off Tim Paine and Shaun Marsh, ensuring the latter was unable to repeat the unbeaten 126 that underpinned Australia’s 442 for eight declared in the first innings.
Although the debate over whether Steve Smith should have enforced the follow-on after England were dismissed for 227 on Monday evening will continue to rage, Australia remain strong favourites to win the match and take a 2-0 lead in the series.
England’s best individual total over the 10-wicket defeat in Brisbane and the first innings in Adelaide was the 83 James Vince put together at the Gabba.
Australia’s pace attack will also be licking their lips at the prospect of bowling at the Englishmen under the lights in the final session of the day.
It was in that session on Monday night that England found their mojo with the ball and they continued to ride that momentum on Tuesday when Australia resumed on 53-4.
Handscomb was reprieved in the first over on referral when the TV pictures showed Anderson’s delivery had hit his shoulder rather than his bat, but he rarely looked comfortable.
Lyon was the first batsman to fall, however, when he chipped the ball to Stuart Broad at mid-off for 14 with Handscomb following soon afterwards for 12 courtesy of a fine catch from Dawid Malan in the slips.
Woakes got in on the act to remove Paine for 11 when Craig Overton also displayed fine catching skills to take a low catch at fine leg before Marsh (19) misjudged a fuller delivery and the ball made a mess of his stumps.
Anderson took a nasty tumble when he tried to catch Starc out off his own bowling but was soon back at the other end to get his man for 20 and record his first five-wicket haul in Australia.
Overton ended the innings when Josh Hazlewood spooned the ball to Malan at gully.


(The Sports Xchange) - Chris Boswell’s 38-yard field goal as time expired lifted the Pittsburgh Steelers to a 23-20 victory over the Cincinnati Bengals, capping an injury- and penalty-ridden Monday night matchup at Paul Brown Stadium.
The Steelers lost linebacker and leading tackler Ryan Shazier to a back injury in the first quarter. He was taken to a local hospital, reportedly with no feeling below his waist.
Antonio Brown had eight catches for 101 yards and a touchdown, and Ben Roethlisberger passed for 290 yards and two TDs in helping Pittsburgh (10-2) rally from a 17-0 second-quarter deficit for its seventh straight victory.
Cincinnati (5-7) had a franchise-record 173 penalty yards, including an offside penalty that gave Boswell 5 extra yards on his game-winner.
Andy Dalton passed for 234 yards and two touchdowns for the Bengals (5-7), who also sustained several key injuries.
Cincinnati lost cornerback Adam Jones to a groin injury and running back Joe Mixon to a concussion in the first half.
Late in the fourth quarter, Bengals linebacker Vontaze Burfict sustained a head injury on a block by receiver JuJu Smith-Schuster, who was flagged for unsportsmanlike conduct and taunting on the play.
The Steelers captured some momentum with a field goal just before halftime. Then on their first possession of the third quarter, Le‘Veon Bell caught a short pass and tiptoed the sideline past Bengals corner William Jackson III for a 35-yard touchdown to make the score 17-10.
Bell rushed for 76 yards on 18 carries.
Dalton had a 61-yard touchdown pass to A.J. Green negated by a holding penalty, and Martavis Bryant had a 96-yard kickoff return touchdown called back, also due to a hold.
Cincinnati led 20-13 with eight minutes left, but Roethlisberger’s 6-yard TD pass to Brown tied the score with 3:51 remaining.
The Bengals dominated the first quarter with 112 total yards on 16 plays.
Brown, who was questionable coming into Monday’s game, caught a 20-yard pass on his first target. However, Jones made a diving interception of a Roethlisberger pass three plays later, helping set up a 35-yard field goal by Randy Bullock to put Cincinnati ahead 3-0. Jones injured his groin on the play and did not return.
The Bengals then drove 85 yards on 12 plays on their next possession, and a 9-yard TD pass from Dalton to Green increased their lead to 10-0. Coty Sensabaugh, who was starting at left cornerback in place of Joe Haden, was beaten on the play.
Green again beat Sensabaugh for a 15-yard TD pass to Green with 31 seconds remaining in the first half. Cincinnati led 17-3 at the end of an injury-riddled first half.
Dalton was 16 of 23 for 173 yards and two touchdowns in the first half. Both of his scoring passes came on third down.


(Reuters) - Stephen Curry suffered a right ankle injury in the closing stages of Golden State’s win over New Orleans on Monday and left the arena on crutches, but later X-rays cleared him of any damage.    Curry hurt the ankle when he lunged for a steal and turned the ankle awkwardly with just over a minute remaining in the game.
Curry finished with 31 points and 11 assists as the Warriors (19-6) rallied to a 125-115 victory.


MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Having felt “angry” to have to compete with Russian dopers, Australia’s race walking champion Jared Tallent hopes the International Olympic Committee will heed calls from clean athletes to exclude the nation from the Winter Games.
The IOC is set to decide later on Tuesday whether to ban Russia from Pyeongchang over alleged institutional doping, a decision that will be watched closely by athletes and anti-doping authorities.
Moscow has vehemently denied state involvement and claimed the allegations are politically motivated.
Four years after coming second behind a Russian drug cheat at the London Olympics, Tallent was belatedly awarded the 50km walk gold last year after Sergey Kirdyapkin was stripped of the medal.
The 33-year-old Australian remains highly suspicious of the strength of Russia’s anti-doping program, however, and doubtful the country can move on from the scandals that have engulfed it in recent years.
”As a clean athlete, I would like to see them banned from the Winter Olympics,“ he told Reuters in a phone interview on Tuesday. ”I think the evidence has been pretty clear around what they did over the leadup to the last (Rio) Olympics.
”It would be disappointing to see them allowed at Pyeongchang.
“I don’t even like the fact they let them compete as neutral athletes. It’s still allowing Russians into competition.”
Russia’s anti-doping agency (RUSADA) has been suspended since a 2015 report by a World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) commission found evidence of state-sponsored doping in Russia.
A further WADA report last year found more than 1,000 Russian competitors in over 30 sports had been involved in a conspiracy to conceal positive drug tests over a five-year period.
Last month, the IOC’s own commission has banned more than 20 Russian athletes from the Olympics for life over doping violations at the 2014 Winter Games that Russia hosted in Sochi.
The Kremlin has continued to deny any culpability, however, and said it would defend the “legitimate interests” of its Sochi athletes who were disqualified and had their medals stripped.
WADA has demanded Russia own up to state-sponsored doping as a condition of lifting its suspension on RUSADA, but Tallent could not imagine any admission would come.
“They’re just trying to save face to their people,” he said.
”It would be a pretty devastating to admit to their people that they’ve sponsored doping.
“But they aren’t going to move forward in sport until they admit they were involved. I don’t think they will move forward.”
The 15-member IOC Executive Board can opt to issue a blanket ban on Russian athletes, or allow them to compete in South Korea as neutrals.
They could also defer to international sports federations to decide on their participation as they did at Rio.
Although Russia was barred from athletics and weightlifting at the summer Games, it was able to send around 70 percent of its original 387-strong squad.
Tallent felt the IOC missed a chance to make a strong statement at Rio but was pleased the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) maintained a hard line.
The IAAF banned the Russian athletics federation in 2015 and confirmed last week that it would continue its suspension.
Russia’s race walking program has been notorious for producing drug cheats, and Tallent said his sport was better off without the nation competing.
“There’s certainly less suspicion around competition, I can tell you,” said the four-times Olympic medalist.
”Athletes feel like they’re competing in a cleaner field.
“Particularly in my event, there were always suspicions and it did make you quite angry when you knew you were up against athletes who were playing dirty.”


(Reuters) - Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker Ryan Shazier suffered a back injury and was carted off the field after a head-first collision with Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver Josh Malone during the first quarter on Monday.
Shazier slammed into Malone and immediately grabbed at his back while signaling for trainers to tend to him.
Steelers team mates kneeled around Shazier as he was strapped to a stretcher and taken off the field. The team announced that Shazier had been taken to the hospital for further evaluation.
Shazier, 25, was the team’s leading tackler through 11 games.


(The Sports Xchange) - Portland Timbers midfielder Diego Valeri was named Major League Soccer’s Most Valuable Player on Monday.
Valeri received the honor by vote of the league’s club managers, media members and current players. The other nominees included Atlanta United’s Miguel Almiron, Toronto FC’s Sebastian Giovinco, Chicago’s Nemanja Nikolic and NYCFC’s David Villa.
The 31-year-old Valeri recorded an MLS-record nine-game goal-scoring streak from July 29-Sept. 24 and finished with 21 on the season, trailing only Nikolic and Villa.
Valeri also had 11 assists in 32 games for Portland (15-11-8), which finished with the most points in the West before falling in the conference semifinals to the Houston Dynamo.


(Reuters) - A UCLA basketball player who was arrested for shoplifting in China and whose father later engaged in a public dispute with U.S. President Donald Trump will leave the university and prepare for the NBA draft next year, the player’s father told media on Monday.
“We learned today of LiAngelo Ball’s intention to withdraw from UCLA. We respect the decision he and his family have made, and we wish him all the best in the future,” UCLA Coach Steve Alford said in a statement released by the university.
Ball, a freshman, was arrested along with Cody Riley and Jalen Hill in November for stealing sunglasses at a Louis Vuitton store in Hangzhou, China. The UCLA team was touring China ahead of a visit by Trump, who said he intervened by personally speaking with Chinese President Xi Jingping to get the players released.
Trump on Nov. 15 asked on Twitter for the players’ gratitude, which came in a news conference later that day when they also admitted to the shoplifting and apologized.
Trump then got into a public dispute with Ball’s father, LaVar Ball, the outspoken head of a sports apparel company who has two other basketball-playing sons. LaVar Ball publicly downplayed Trump’s role in freeing his son and refused to offer the praise that the president was expecting.
The slight prompted at least seven tweets from Trump over eight days in which he called the elder Ball an “ungrateful fool” and bragged that “IT WAS ME” who got the players released, sparing them from potentially up to 10 years in a Chinese prison.
LiAngelo Ball, 19, has remained suspended and has not played for UCLA, prompting LaVar Ball to announce his son would leave the university and seek to enter the National Basketball Association draft next June.
“He’s not transferring to another school. The plan is now to get Gelo ready for the NBA draft,” LaVar Ball told ESPN.
“I‘m not going to let UCLA take the fire out of my boy by not letting him play for two months,” Ball told the Los Angeles Times.
Reuters was unable to reach Ball for comment.
The oldest Ball son, Lonzo Ball, 20, also played at UCLA and was chosen second overall by the Los Angeles Lakers in the 2017 NBA draft. The youngest brother, LaMelo Ball, 16, has verbally committed to playing for UCLA.


(Reuters) - British weightlifter Sonny Webster has been banned from competing after admitting on his Facebook page on Monday that he had tested positive for the banned substance ostarine.
Webster, 23, who finished 14th in 94kg category at the Rio Olympics, has been an outspoken advocate for clean sport and said he was devastated when notified four months ago.
“I was in complete shock when I found out and I still do not know how this substance came to be in my system,” Webster said in a statement on his Facebook page. “Weightlifting is my life and everything that I live and breathe and I would never risk losing this by knowingly taking a banned substance.”
Webster said in the months since learning of his positive test he has spent his life’s savings trying to find out how the banned substance got into his system.
”The money was spent on lawyers, analysis of samples and supplements and on the legal team who did all they could to establish the source,“ said Webster. ”Whilst this has been a strain financially, I knew that I had to do all that I could in order to attempt to prove my innocence.
“If I had known the source of the ostarine, I would never have spent so much money in trying to pinpoint where it came from. This whole experience has highlighted that my integrity is worth far more than any amount of money.”
While Webster maintains his innocence, he said he will grudgingly accept a four year ban without the financial resources to appeal the decision.
”This is the largest possible ban you can receive for a doping case,“ he said. ”Given the circumstances of the test and how hard I tried to find the source I felt this length of ban was wholly unjustified in comparison to athletes who cheat intentionally in competition.
“I had attempted to appeal this further but was ultimately stopped due to future legal cost and difficulty around using new experts to perform re-testing.”


KINGSTON (Reuters) - Multiple Olympic and world champion Usain Bolt has described the unveiling of his statue in front of Kingston’s National Stadium as one of the greatest moments of his career.
The statue, commissioned by the Jamaican government and revealed by Prime Minister Andrew Holness, stands in front of the place where 15 years ago Bolt won the junior championships to announce himself to the world.
“For me this is up there, it can’t be doubted that this is one of the greatest moments in my career,” Bolt told Reuters after the unveiling on Sunday.
“Having a statue in the National Stadium where it all began; there are no words, I am just happy and really excited about this.”
The statue was sculpted by Jamaican artist Basil Watson and features the 31-year-old in his trademark ‘lightning bolt’ pose, seen many times over the years as he set world records in the 100 and 200 meters, winning 11 world and eight Olympic golds.
“It was all worth it: the losses, the injuries, everything I’ve been through, it’s all worth it,” said Bolt, who signed off his stellar career with bronze in the 100m at the world championships in London earlier this year.
“It’s a wonderful thing to look back and see what your career has brought you. I‘m very happy and proud of myself for the work. It’s just a good time and I am in a good place.”
Holness has previously said that Bolt’s performances over the years has elevated the status of Jamaican sport.
“I have always aimed to make my country proud and to put my country in the best light possible so for the Prime Minster to say that it showed that my work paid off and it’s something that I am happy about,” Bolt added. “In any way that I can continue doing that, it would be great.”
Bolt was stripped of one of his nine Olympic gold medals when his former 4x100m relay team mate Nesta Carter retroactively tested positive for the banned stimulant methylhexanamine at the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
Carter has appealed to the Court of Arbitration for Sport against the decision resulting from the doping test.
Bolt, the only sprinter to win the 100m, 200m and 4x100 relay titles at three consecutive Olympics (2008, 2012, 2016) until Carter’s test result, was not losing any sleep over the medal missing from his glittering collection.
“I haven’t really been following it (the appeal). I‘m just waiting on the time for them to say what is what. I‘m just focusing on which direction I want my career to go,” he said.


(The Sports Xchange) - The New York Giants fired second-year head coach Ben McAdoo in a housecleaning on Monday morning, less than a week after the benching of quarterback Eli Manning created a backlash from fans.
The Giants also fired general manager Jerry Reese, who becomes the first GM known to be let go in-season by the team.
McAdoo is the first Giants head coach to be relieved of his duties in-season since 1976 when Bill Arnsparger was fired.
McAdoo’s short era ends with a 13-15 record. Reese’s nearly 11-year tenure ends with a 90-82 record, two Super Bowl championships (2007 and 2011).
The firing ends a tumultuous week as the 2-10 Giants are going through one of the worst seasons in franchise history. After Sunday’s 24-17 loss to the Oakland Raiders, the Giants are tied for the second-worst record in the NFL.
McAdoo made the playoffs in his first season last year after the former offensive coordinator took over for Tom Coughlin. In 2016, the Giants had an 11-5 record and ended a five-year playoff drought.
McAdoo’s decision last week to bench Manning led to his firing and may take the heat off of Giants owner John Mara, who reportedly was not happy with how the coach presented the plan to the franchise’s two-time Super Bowl MVP quarterback.
Manning, who started 210 straight games for the Giants, fought back tears last Tuesday as he talked about the stunning decision by McAdoo to name Geno Smith the starting quarterback for Sunday’s game.
The Giants finish with three of their final four games at home -- Dallas on Dec. 10, Philadelphia on Dec. 17 and Washington on Dec. 31. The Giants also play at Arizona on Dec. 24.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Sunday’s National Hockey League games:
Jets 5, Senators 0
The Winnipeg Jets made sure their stay atop the standings in the Western Conference was more than a 48-hour thing with an utterly dominant 5-0 victory over the Ottawa Senators on Sunday night at Bell MTS Place.
The Jets improved to 17-6-4, good for 38 points, one ahead of the Los Angeles Kings.
Connor Hellebuyck stopped 21 shots for his first shutout of the season, while Ottawa’s Mike Condon was pulled after giving up five goals on 22 shots. Craig Anderson weathered the storm the rest of the way, stopping all 27 shots he faced.
Blake Wheeler had a goal and three assists for the Senators, who got a goal and two assists from Mathieu Perreault plus a goal and one assist from Mark Scheifele. Tyler Myers and Patrik Laine added goals.
Golden Knights 3, Coyotes 2 (OT)
Reilly Smith scored at 3:51 of overtime to give Vegas a victory over Arizona.
Smith took a pass from Jonathan Marchessault on the edge of the left circle and rifled a shot past Arizona goalie Scott Wedgewood. The win snapped a three-game losing streak for the Golden Knights, who improved to 5-0 in overtime.
Marchessault and Alex Tuch also scored goals for Vegas while Malcolm Subban had 31 saves in net to pick up the win. Wedgewood stopped 42 shots for the Coyotes, who got goals from Jakob Chychrun and Derek Stepan.
Stars 7, Avalanche 2
Tyler Seguin and Brent Ritchie scored two goals each, Devin Shore had a goal and an assist, and streaking Dallas beat Colorado.
Jason Spezza and Greg Pateryn also scored, Alexander Radulov and John Klingberg had two assists each, and Kari Lehtonen made 25 saves for Dallas. The Stars won their fifth in a row and their seven in the past eight.
Mikko Rantanen and Blake Comeau had goals for the Avalanche. Colorado starting goalie Jonathan Bernier was replaced after allowing five goals on nine shots.
Kings 3, Blackhawks 1
Christian Folin snapped a scoreless tie midway through the third period, and goaltender Jonathan Quick shined, helping Los Angeles to a victory against Chicago.
The Kings earned their fifth consecutive victory.


ANAHEIM (Reuters) - Chile’s Arley Mendez returned from more than four years of international competitive exile to defeat Iran’s Olympic champion Kianoush Rostami in the men’s 85 kilogram class at weightlifting’s World Championships on Sunday, while Sohrab Moradi broke two world records in the 94kg class.
Mendez, who never returned home after competing for his native Cuba in the Pan American Junior Championships in Santiago in 2013, posted a total of 378kg to win gold ahead of Poland’s Krzysztof Zwarycz (359kg). Italy’s Antonino Pizzolato lifted 358 kgs to clinch third.
Mendez was only granted citizenship by Chile this year.
He could have also taken Rostami’s clean and jerk world record had he not failed with his final attempt at 221kg.
“My finger got stuck on the bar, a technical problem,” said Mendez. “Next year the records will come. I prepared well and I knew I would win here.”
Rostami, who injured his left knee last week, missed all three clean and jerk attempts and failed to register a total.
Moradi, who won gold in Rio last year, broke two world records in winning the 94 kilogram class, to take an easy win over Lithuania’s Aurimas Didzbalis by 29 kilograms.
Iran’s Seyedayoob Mousavijahari was in third place, three kilograms behind the Lithuanian.
The 29-year-old Moradi jumped from 220kg to 233kg on his fifth lift to break the clean and jerk world record of 232kg set in 2000 by Poland’s Szymon Kolecki, and better by four kilograms his own world record for the total, which he improved to 417kg.
”I wanted to surprise everybody and I did,“ said Moradi. ”I am proud to make every Iranian across the world very happy.”
In the women’s 75 kilogram class, Spain’s Lydia Valentin, a medalist at the past three Olympic Games, was the clear winner on 258kg from Ecuador’s Neisi Dajomes on 240kg with France’s Gaelle Ketchanke a further three kilograms behind.


(The Sports Xchange) - Shohei Ohtani is regarded as the “Babe Ruth of Japan” but he will not playing for the New York Yankees.
Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said Sunday night that the agents for Ohtani told him the two-way star is not signing with New York.
The Yankees were not the only team to learn they would not be in the running for Ohtani.
According to the Boston Globe, the Boston Red Sox were informed they were eliminated from the bidding. Other media reports indicated that the Toronto Blue Jays, Pittsburgh Pirates, Minnesota Twins, Milwaukee Brewers and New York Mets are out of the sweepstakes.
Media reports indicated that the Seattle Mariners and San Francisco Giants are among nine teams to be granted a meeting with Ohtani.
Cashman told reporters that Ohtani seems to prefer West Coast teams and smaller markets.
A World Series championship celebration may have come at a cost for Dallas Keuchel.
The 29-year-old Houston Astros ace has suffered a “minor (left) foot sprain” and is in a walking boot, reportedly the result of an injury he sustained during the team’s World Series title parade last month.
Keuchel told TMZ he slipped during the celebration. The Chronicle reports Keuchel is expected to be ready for spring training in the middle of February.
The San Diego Padres signed general manager A.J. Preller to a three-year contract extension through the 2022 season, the team announced Sunday.
Preller was originally named GM of the Padres on Aug. 6, 2014.


LONDON (Reuters) - Red Bull junior driver Dan Ticktum put McLaren in an awkward position on Sunday after winning a coveted award that includes a Formula One test drive and simulator role with the Woking-based team.
Macau Formula Three Grand Prix winner Ticktum, 18, beat three other young Britons to win the McLaren Autosport BRDC Award.
Previous winners include 2009 Formula One world champion Jenson Button and three times Indianapolis 500 winner Dario Franchitti.
Last year’s winner Lando Norris is now the McLaren Formula One reserve driver.
Ticktum, however, has been contracted to rivals Red Bull since the start of the year and has been in that team’s simulator already.
McLaren sources told Reuters the prize would be honored, with Ticktum probably getting to drive a 2013 Formula One car, but a meaningful factory simulator role with them was out of the question.
McLaren and Red Bull will both have the same Renault engines next year after the former ended a three-year partnership with Honda.
Ticktum was still delighted to be the 29th recipient of the award, whose first winner was now-retired Formula One racer David Coulthard back in 1989.
“I had an amazing weekend in Macau and this has exceeded that,” said the Briton, who was handed a part-suspended two year ban in 2015 for ignoring safety car conditions. “I cannot put into words how proud I am right now.”
“People know I had a tough career to start with and there have been some very important people who believed in me, particularly Red Bull, (team principal) Christian Horner, (Red Bull consultant) Dr Helmut Marko,” he added.
“They’ve given me a chance and I hope I can do them proud.”
Mercedes’s four times Formula One world champion Lewis Hamilton, who did not attend, sent a video message after being named best international racing driver and British competition driver.
There was also an award for retired Brazilian triple world champion Nelson Piquet, who struggled to contain his emotions, honoring his contribution to motorsport.
Piquet was presented with his award by former Brabham designer Gordon Murray, whose cars took him to his first two titles in 1981 and 1983. The third crown was won with Williams in 1987.
“It is much easier to race than to see your son racing,” said Piquet, whose son and namesake also competed in Formula One and was the first champion in the Formula E electric series in 2014-15.


ANAHEIM (Reuters) - A New Zealand transgender lifter will go for gold against an American Olympic medalist when the super-heavyweight classes bring the weightlifting World Championships to a close on Tuesday.
Laurel Hubbard, 39, who competed nationally as Gavin Hubbard, has a perfect record since returning to competition after changing gender four years ago.
She has won the three events in which she has taken part, all in Australia, since her debut in international weightlifting last March and is in New Zealand’s team for the Commonwealth Games on Australia’s Gold Coast next April.
Based on the world rankings, Hubbard should be a gold-medal contender in the +90 kg class at the worlds where home hopes rest with Sarah Robles, from San Diego, who was third at the Rio Olympics last year.
Many of the world’s best super-heavyweight women are not competing because nine nations are banned for multiple doping offences. The Olympic gold and silver medalists are absent.
Hubbard complies with the conditions put in place by the International Olympic Committee (IOC), whose procedures on transgender athletes are followed by the International Weightlifting Federation (IWF).
Her presence in women’s weightlifting has irked rivals. Tim Swords, Robles’s coach, said: “I do not want to say anything negative, but in my humble opinion this is not fair.”
Tracey Lambrechs, who lost her place as New Zealand’s top super-heavyweight when Hubbard started competing, shed 17 kilos to move down to the 90kg class and qualify for the Commonwealth Games with one national team place available in each category.
Lambrechs said Hubbard had an unfair advantage because of her history as a male lifter and recently told Radio NZ: “All I can hope is that they look into it and make a more educated judgment.”
Australian Weightlifting Federation chief executive, Michael Keelan, told the Australian Associated Press last week: “We’re in a power sport which is normally related to masculine tendencies. I don’t think it’s a level playing field. That’s my personal view and I think it’s shared by a lot of people in the sporting world.”
Because of the controversy Hubbard, whose father Dick is a former mayor of Auckland, has not spoken to the media since she began competing internationally, and has declined interview requests.
“She has said she does not want to take the focus away from other athletes,” said IWF director general Attila Adamfi.
Under the IOC regulations a male-to-female transgender athlete must show, from a period starting one year before her first competition and ending when she finishes her competitive career, that her total testosterone level is below 10 nanomols per liter.
The low point of the normal range of testosterone levels for males is 9.16 nanomols per liter, according to research published by the Endocrine Society this year.
The IOC might review its regulations when the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) had considered evidence from new research relating to female track and field athletes with high testosterone levels, said Adamfi.
Ursula Garza Papandrea, chair of the IWF Women’s Commission and president of USA Weightlifting, said the presence of Hubbard “certainly has the potential to draw a lot of controversy”.
But she added: “The rules are the rules and if it’s in the rules that’s what we go by. Whether those rules are fair or not fair is not for us to decide, it’s for the policy creators to decide.”
In the men’s super-heavyweights, Iranian Saeed Alihosseini returns to competition after an eight-year doping ban.
Alihosseini, 29, who still holds the junior world records he set in 2008, was originally banned for life but successfully appealed and, since 2011 when CAS reduced the suspension to eight years, has trained at his father’s gym.


TOKYO (Reuters) - Former world number two Kento Momota will be restored to the top tier of Japan’s national badminton team next season as he continues his long rehabilitation from a gambling scandal that ruled him out of the Rio Olympics, local media reported.
“He has returned to about the level he was at before this trouble occurred,” Kyodo news agency quoted Japan head coach Park Joo Bong as saying.
“Our big goal is the (2020) Tokyo Olympics.”
Momota became the first Japanese to win a men’s singles world championship medal when he claimed bronze at Jakarta in 2015 and also won the Super Series Masters Final that year.
His career stumbled, however, when he was banned from the national team in April, 2016, for visiting an illegal casino and missed last year’s Rio Games.
The 23-year-old only returned to international competition in July at the Canada Open and has been restricted to playing in lower-level tournaments.
Badminton power Japan claimed a gold and a bronze at the Rio Games to finish second on the medals table behind China.


(The Sports Xchange) - San Jose Sharks center Joe Thornton was fined $5,000 for slashing Tampa Bay Lightning forward Tyler Johnson during Saturday night’s game, the NHL’s Department of Player Safety announced Sunday.
The fine is the maximum allowable under the collective bargaining agreement. The money goes to the Players’ Emergency Assistance Fund.
The Dallas Stars placed center Martin Hanzal on injured reserve due to a hamstring injury, the team announced.
Hanzal, 30, suffered the injury on Tuesday against the Vegas Golden Knights. The move is retroactive to Nov. 28.
Hanzal has just three points (one goal, two assists) and 13 penalty minutes in 19 games this season.
The Stars also recalled forward Jason Dickinson from the Texas Stars of the American Hockey League.
The Columbus Blue Jackets assigned left winger Sonny Milano to the Cleveland Monsters of the American Hockey League.
Milano, 21, has five goals, five assists and four penalty minutes in 24 games with the Blue Jackets this season. He has an assist in one contest with the Monsters.
Milano owns 11 points (five goals, six assists) and four penalty minutes in 31 career NHL games with the Blue Jackets. He has 84 points (32 goals, 52 assists) in 128 career AHL games with the Monsters and Springfield Falcons.
The Edmonton Oilers claimed defenseman Brandon Davidson off waivers from the Montreal Canadiens.
Davidson, 26, appeared in 13 games with the Canadiens this season, posting one assist and nine penalty minutes.
The 6-foot-2, 208-pound native of Taber, Alberta, was originally selected by the Oilers in the sixth round of the 2010 NHL draft. He appeared in 91 games with the Oilers from 2014-17, recording 13 points (five goals, eight assists).
The Arizona Coyotes recalled defenseman Jakob Chychrun from the Tucson Roadrunners of the American Hockey League.
Chychrun, 19, has been out since suffering a knee injury before the start of training camp. He recorded 20 points (seven goals, 13 assists) and 47 penalty minutes in 68 games with the Coyotes last season.


(Reuters) - Tiger Woods proved he could be competitive again after playing some of the best golf of his comeback with a final-round four-under 68 to tie for ninth at the Hero World Challenge in the Bahamas on Sunday.
No one could match Rickie Fowler, though. The world number nine birdied his first seven holes and won the elite event by four strokes thanks to a course record 11-under par 61 that left him at 18-under 270.
Woods was 10 strokes back but he had plenty of smiles as he answered the question of how he would do in his first tournament in nearly 10 months following spinal fusion surgery.
Pain free, the former world number one struck for six birdies and an eagle at the Albany course before two closing bogeys. He also had a double bogey in the elite 18-man event that featured eight of the world’s top 10.
“I showed some good signs,” Woods told NBC Sports after finishing the four days at eight-under 280. “I hit some really good shots out there (and am ready for) a bright future.... and no pain.”
The latter was especially important to the 41-year-old who once dominated the sport.
“I’ve had some tough times through the years with my back and then finally to come out on the good side and (be) able to get back out there and play. It’s pretty cool,” he said.
He also spoke positively about the future.
“When I was struggling with my back, the world seemed very small. Day to day stuff was very difficult for me to do,” Woods said. “Now I am able to sit back and enjoy it a little bit more... It’s been really nice.”
He and his team will now sit down to determine how best to build his 2018 schedule for major championships.
“Play enough, but not play too much,” Woods said.
“I don’t know what golf courses I will be playing, what’s the best way to go about it. ...We’ll figure it out.”
He definitely had the Albany course figured over the first nine holes on Sunday.
The day after a bogey-filled front nine, Woods showed flashes of his old self with three birdies and an eagle to make the turn at five-under 31.
Reality returned at 10 where he had a double-bogey at the par-four hole. But the 79 times PGA Tour winner struck back with birdies at 11, 14 and 15 before bogeys at 17 and 18.
Fowler was looking at a seven-stroke deficit when he began his round but seven straight birdies and another at the ninth put him in front at the turn, which he made in eight-under 28.
He added three more birdies on the back nine for a sizzling, bogey-free round.
“I knew I needed to get off to a quick start today to at least show (overnight leader) Charley Hoffman) I was there,” Fowler said. “We took care of that and kept it rolling.”
Hoffman, who started the day with a five-stroke lead, shot  72 and faded to second at 274. England’s Tommy Fleetwood (67) and Jordan Spieth (69) tied for third at 12-under 276.


(Reuters) - Austrian Marcel Hirscher dominated the World Cup giant slalom event at Beaver Creek on Sunday, winning his 23rd career race in the discipline on a windy and warm day at the Birds of Prey course in Colorado.
Showing no lingering issues from the left ankle fracture he suffered in a training fall in August, the 28-year-old completed his two runs in two minutes 37.30 seconds, nearly a second faster than second-place finisher, Norway’s Henrik Kristoffersen (2:38.18).
Germany’s Stefan Luitz (2:38.33) finished third.
“The last two weeks have been really intense trying to find my speed and my confidence, because when you’re injured you lose a lot of confidence,” Hirscher said.
“It is really unbelievable but it’s just one step further on the way back.”
The win puts Hirscher one career World Cup win behind American Ted Ligety, his longtime rival who is still trying to find his form since coming back from back surgery in January.
Ligety (2:38.66), whose shaky second trip down the course landed him with a disappointing seventh-place finish, said his back felt fine during the race but he was undone by the course’s slow, “grippy” snow on an unusually warm day.
With two months to go before the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, Hirscher will hope his giant slalom dominance will translate into Olympic gold.
Despite being the winner of a record six straight overall World Cup season titles, Hirscher has just one Olympic medal to his name, a silver in slalom from the Sochi Games in 2014.


(Reuters) - A plan to demolish a derelict NFL stadium near Detroit went awry on Sunday when a deafening series of blasts failed to topple the Pontiac Silverdome, to the frustration of officials and the bemusement of a crowd gathered to watch the spectacle.
Fans of the Detroit Lions, the team that called the Silverdome home until moving to a downtown stadium after the 2001 season, joked on social media that the failed implosion was by no means the first time they found themselves leaving the stadium parking lot disappointed. The Lions have not won a National Football League championship since 1957, the league’s second longest title drought.
“Guess the Silverdome went through one too many implosions in its history,” the sports desk of the Detroit Free Press wrote on Twitter.
Live video footage of the planned demolition, which Pontiac city officials said was to make way for new development, was broadcast online on Sunday morning for nostalgic fans and those who enjoy watching large structures collapsing in smoke.
What they saw, according to clips posted online, was plumes of smoke exploding out at regular intervals around the stadium’s perimeter with a smattering of loud bangs.
After the smoke wreathed upward and faded, the stadium was still standing proud, looking little different from what it has since its 1975 opening.
Demolition officials were quick to state the obvious. “That didn’t work,” one official onsite said to two colleagues, the Detroit Free Press reported.
Demolition officials said about 10 percent of the charges had failed to detonate, perhaps because of a wiring issue, the newspaper reported.
“Unless we find something in the next few hours researching the wiring, we will take it down mechanically,” Rick Cuppetilli, the Adamo Group’s executive vice president, told the Free Press. “We haven’t found the wire yet. It’s going to take us a while to research it all.” Gravity may yet belatedly pull it down anyway, he added.
Pontiac Mayor Diedre Waterman, who witnessed the failed implosion, told reporters that the stadium’s tenacity gave people “a chance to share their memories and their nostalgia a little bit longer than we expected.”
The stadium also hosted the 1982 Super Bowl and major bands like Led Zeppelin. It reopened in 2010 for various sporting events until its roof collapsed in 2013.
Still, the mayor said, she wanted the stadium down. “We didn’t want it sitting here as a blight property,” she said.


(Reuters) - American Mikaela Shiffrin notched up her first career World Cup win in downhill at Canada’s Lake Louise on Saturday, one day after reaching her first ever podium in the discipline.
The 22-year-old skiing prodigy completed the course in one minute 27.55 seconds in just her fourth career downhill race.
Germany’s Viktoria Rebensburg, in 1:27.68, finished second and Michelle Gisin (1:27.72) of Switzerland was third.
Shiffrin now leads the women’s overall World Cup standings as well as the downhill standings with just over two months to go until the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang.
The win comes less than a week after Shiffrin won the World Cup slalom for the second year in a row at Killington in Vermont. She now has 33 career World Cup wins.
A day after suffering a nasty crash toward the end of her run, fellow American Lindsey Vonn (1:28.48) took a conservative approach to the course, where she is an 18-time champion.
The veteran Vonn, who skied with a brace on her right knee, finished tied in 12th with Italy’s Verena Stuffer and was almost a second behind Shiffrin.
While Vonn completed the course without incident, her team mate Breezy Johnson was not so lucky.
The 21-year-old American slid out after hitting a bump during a turn but skied off the course under her own power.
The start of Saturday’s race was delayed by an hour and 15 minutes due to a power outage at the resort caused by a fire at a substation.
The outage meant the skiers had to ride in snowcats or get towed to the top of the hill for the start.
Speed events continue at Lake Louise on Sunday with the first women’s super-G of the season.


(Reuters) - Aksel Svindal was the first out of the gate at the downhill race in Beaver Creek on Saturday and never relinquished the lead as he cruised to his 33rd career World Cup win.
The tall, powerful Norwegian pushed hard out of the starting gate and sped down the quick Birds of Prey course in one minute 40:46 seconds for his sixth career win at the Colorado resort.
“When you’re going first you’re not going to get a course report so you really need to be committed,” the 34-year-old veteran said. “If you can do that I think it is an advantage.”
Svindal, the 2010 Olympic super-G gold medalist and five-time world champion, appears in top form after his previous two seasons were cut short due to knee injuries.
Svindal edged Beat Feuz (1:40.61) of Switzerland, who won the season-opening men’s downhill at Lake Louise a week ago. German Thomas Dressen (1:40.95) finished third.
A memorial was set up on the course mourning the death of French skier David Poisson, who died in a training accident in Alberta on Nov. 13.
Adrien Theaux (1:41.26) was the fastest Frenchman down the course on Saturday, finishing eighth after posting the quickest time in training on Wednesday at Beaver Creek.


LONDON (Reuters) - Liverpool and Chelsea maintained their pursuit of runaway Premier League leaders Manchester City with comfortable wins on Saturday but Tottenham Hotspur dropped further off the pace with a disappointing 1-1 draw at Watford.
With City home to West Ham United on Sunday, and Arsenal and Manchester United facing each other later on Saturday, Liverpool showed their continuing menace by thumping Brighton and Hove Albion 5-1. Juergen Klopp’s side have now scored 15 goals in four away games in all competitions.
The German made even more changes than his team scored goals, leaving out six of the side who beat Stoke City 3-0 in midweek.
Liverpool were not weakened and after stand-in center half Emre Can put them ahead with a bullet header, Roberto Firmino hit a double, Philippe Coutinho scored from a free kick and Brighton’s Lewis Dunk headed into his own net. With the visitors three up, Glenn Murray’s 51st-minute penalty was not enough to spark Liverpool’s usual defensive jitters.
Earlier, Chelsea came from behind to sweep past Newcastle United 3-1 at Stamford Bridge.
After Dwight Gayle gave Newcastle the lead, Belgium’s Eden Hazard produced nine shots, six on target, and two goals in a display that, according to Newcastle manager Rafa Benitez, made the difference against a side who have now gone six games without a win.
Hazard also provided a potent reminder of what England can expect when they face Belgium in the World Cup in Russia next year.
At Vicarage Road, Spurs clung on for a 1-1 draw with their near neighbors after Davinson Sanchez was sent off for elbowing Brazilian Richarlison at the start of the second half. The goals came early with Christian Kabasele’s opener for Watford canceled out by Son Heung-min. Spurs are now four points behind Liverpool and 15 adrift of leaders City.
Elsewhere, Sam Allardyce and Alan Pardew both looked to deliver the new manager bounce in their first match in charge for their clubs but only Everton delivered three points in a routine 2-0 win over Huddersfield Town.
Gylfi Sigurdsson and Dominic Calvert-Lewin scored second-half goals to give Allardyce a winning start two days after he signed an 18-month contract at Everton. But the performance was short on quality and the 63-year-old will have work to do before next Sunday’s derby visit to free-scoring Liverpool.
Pardew’s first match in charge of West Bromwich Albion ended in a 0-0 home draw with Crystal Palace, who were replaced at the foot of the Premier League by Swansea City, 2-1 losers at Stoke.
The visitors went ahead through Wilfried Bony’s first goal for them in nearly two years before Xherdan Shaqiri and Mame Biram Diouf turned the game to increase the pressure on Swansea manager Paul Clement after his side’s 10th league defeat of the season.
Demarai Gray got on the end of Riyad Mahrez’s cross to give Leicester a 1-0 win over Burnley that continued the Foxes’ bright start under Claude Puel. Burnley’s bad day was made worse by an injury to Robbie Brady, who was stretchered off before the break.


ARESE, Italy (Reuters) - Formula Two champion Charles Leclerc will move up to Formula One with Alfa Romeo-backed Sauber next season while Marcus Ericcson stays in the lineup despite the Swede failing to score a point in 2017.
The announcement was made by Fiat Chrysler (FCA) chief executive Sergio Marchionne on Saturday at a presentation of Alfa Romeo’s new partnership with the Swiss team at the Italian marque’s museum near Milan.
That deal, marking the return of the historic Alfa Romeo name to Formula One after a more than 30-year absence, was announced earlier in the week.
Saturday’s event showed off a new red and white livery, with Alfa Romeo branding prominent on the engine cover, and a redesigned logo.
The lineup leaves Pascal Wehrlein, Ericsson’s German team mate, facing an uncertain future with former champions Williams the only remaining team with a vacancy but Poland’s Robert Kubica favorite to fill it.
Ferrari-backed Leclerc, 20 and from Monaco, had been expected to get the Sauber drive after a dominant season in the official feeder series.
Ericsson’s future had been in doubt, with Ferrari-backed Italian Antonio Giovinazzi also a candidate under the new partnership.
Giovinazzi will be the reserve driver instead, taking part in Friday practice sessions.
Marchionne, who is also chairman of Sauber’s engine suppliers Ferrari, has made the title sponsorship of Sauber part of his reshaping of the FCA-owned Alfa Romeo brand.
Fiat Chrysler have invested billions of euros since 2014 to develop new Alfa Romeo models that would stand up against German premium rivals and shed a reputation for poor quality and service that has hit sales in the past decade.
“Formula One is the natural reference point for a marque like this,” he said.
Marchionne added that the partnership would also strengthen his hand in talks with Formula One about the sport’s future and warned that the deal could end in 2021 if Ferrari decided to walk away as they have threatened.
“Now there is the additional benefit that when we sit down at the table to discuss the future of Formula One, we’re playing two marques,” he told reporters. “I think the guns are loaded in a different way.”
Formula One chairman Chase Carey and former Ferrari boss Jean Todt, president of the governing FIA, both attended the presentation.
In a speech, Marchionne also thanked Sauber Holding chairman Pascal Picci and Swedish billionaire Finn Rausing for their support in reaching a deal that should boost a team that finished last overall this year.
“It’s an amazing opportunity for me but also for the team,” said Ericsson, whose financial support has long been linked to Rausing and the Tetra Laval packaging group.
“I think obviously we’re starting from quite far behind because we had a difficult season, but I think we have the potential to take a good step forward.”
Alfa Romeo have a strong heritage in Formula One with the first two world championships in 1950 and 1951 won by Italian Giuseppe ‘Nino’ Farina and Argentine Juan Manuel Fangio in their cars.
Ferrari’s late founder Enzo also started out racing and managing a team for Alfa Romeo, before setting up on his own in the late 1930s.
Alfa Romeo supplied engines in the 1960s and 1970s and returned as a constructor in 1979 before again withdrawing at the end of 1985.


(Reuters) - South Africa’s Louis de Jager joined overnight leader Arjun Atwal of India at the top of the leaderboard after the Mauritius Open third round on Saturday and the pair will take a one-shot lead into Sunday’s final round of the European Tour event in Domaine del Bel Ombre.
The 30-year-old De Jager, seeking a first European Tour success, hit four birdies in a blemish-free 67 to join Atwal on 13 under par after 54 holes.
The Indian had carded a course-record 62 in Thursday’s first round not long after completing a 16-hour journey to Mauritius and shot 68 in the third round.
Dylan Frittelli of South Africa and Miguel Tabuena from the Philippines were a stroke back in third place.
South Africa’s former British Open champion Louis Oosthuizen was in a group of 16 players within five strokes of the leaders.


HONG KONG (Reuters) - Sam Bird won Formula E’s season-opening race in Hong Kong on Saturday despite the Briton being forced to serve a drive-through penalty after crashing his all-electric DS-Virgin Racing car in the pit lane.
The 30-year-old claimed a sixth career win by 11.575 seconds from pole winner Jean-Eric Vergne following the incident when switching to his second car.
Bird was penalized for not stopping in the garage, but retained his lead after his drive-through as season four of the series began in dramatic fashion around the harbourside streets.
“That was very stressful,” said the driver, who had to see stewards afterwards and will have a 10-place grid penalty for Sunday’s second race.
”I‘m finding it hard to process what happened as it’s not very often you win after a drive-through penalty in FE. I’m amazed to have won really.
“I thought I’d come out P7 (seventh) or P8 and I got on the radio asking what position I was in. They said ‘You’re in P1, keep going’...I never expected we’d dominate round one, but I’ll take that.”
Bird took the lead just before his pit-stop on the 43-lap race, cutting past Vergne’s Techeetah car at a chicane on the 1.86km circuit.
But he overshot his stop and rammed into the side of the Virgin garage, forcing a couple of team personnel to jump out of the way.
The short pit lane helped him emerge just ahead of Vergne and Germany’s Nick Heidfeld, who were scrapping for second place.
“I hit quite a lot going into the garage,” Bird added. “The pit-lane is really filthy dirty and I tried to attack my pit-box as they have given us an almost impossible amount of time to do the pit-stop. But the car just went straight.”
Frenchman Vergne, a former Toro Rosso Formula One driver who claimed his maiden win in season three’s finale in Montreal, struggled with a lack of information about his energy levels but held onto second place.
“This race was my most difficult,” he said. “Finishing second is more like a win for us. For the long term thinking of the championship sometimes you have to finish second, third or fourth and just take the points.”
The series’ had its first red flag in 35 races after a four-car log-jam on the opening lap and the race was suspended for more than 30 minutes before resuming under the safety car.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Adidas expects a big increase in sales of soccer jerseys from the 2018 World Cup in Russia helped by its sponsorship of three of the top teams, the German sportswear maker’s chief executive was quoted as saying on Saturday.
“In football, we are the clear market leader worldwide and are sponsoring 11 teams at the World Cup next year,” Kasper Rorsted told the Rheinische Post newspaper in an interview.
“Overall, I expect a big increase in Adidas jersey sales in 2018 because of the World Cup. I hope that our teams go as far as possible. After all, we are kitting out three of the favorites with Germany, Spain and Argentina.”
Adidas is the official sponsor of the World Cup and has long been the top supplier of soccer shirts, shoes and balls.
But at the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, arch rival Nike sponsored more teams for the first time, including the hosts, and signed more of the most marketable players.
Adidas has since enjoyed a big comeback, taking market share from Nike in the United States, and revamping its soccer business. It is back in the lead with the most teams sponsored at the World Cup, including hosts Russia.
Nike’s top teams at the World Cup include France and Brazil, which is joint favorite with Germany to win, while sportswear firm Puma has only two sides in the tournament - Uruguay and Switzerland, down from eight in 2014.
Rorsted said Adidas should not focus too much on Nike.
“This is not a tennis match with two players, where only one can be victorious. We are focusing on our own business and always improving. It makes no sense to declare our main goal as beating Nike,” he said.


ANAHEIM (Reuters) - The United States’ long wait for a men’s weightlifting World Championships medal goes on after their big hope, teenager Clarence ‘CJ’ Cummings, failed to register a total on Friday.
The 17-year-old, a four times world champion at youth and junior level, failed in all three clean and jerk attempts in the 69 kilograms class, which was won by South Korean Won Jeong-sik with a total of 326kg. Tairat Bunsuk of Thailand was second (321kg) and Frenchman Bernardin Matam third (318).
Tunisian Karem Ben Hnia, who topped the rankings and had been expected to challenge for gold, also failed to register a total.
The last American man to win a World Championships medal was Wes Barnett, who was third in the now defunct 108kg class in 1997. Cummings was seen as the leading contender to end the 20-year wait.
Mattie Rogers, in Saturday’s 69 kg, and Sarah Robles in Tuesday’s super-heavyweights, are the top female medal contenders for the host nation.
The first European winner of the Championships, Romania’s Loredana-Elena Toma, timed her victory well in the women’s 63 kg class as it came on National Day in her homeland.
Toma, the European champion, was a clear winner on 237kg ahead of two Colombians, Lina Rivas and Mercedes Perez.


(Reuters) - Jordan Zunic fired 11 birdies in 16 holes on his way to matching the course record with an eight-under 64 before a late lapse left him three shots clear after the third round of the Australian PGA Championship on Saturday.
The 25-year-old, who won the 2015 New Zealand Open shortly after turning professional, was well on target for an even more remarkable round until he dropped three shots on his final two holes at the Royal Pines Resort in Queensland.
Zunic sits on 17-under for the tournament with one round remaining, while fellow Australian and playing partner Cameron Smith is alone in second after shooting a five-under 67 in the co-sanctioned Australasian and European Tour event.
Second round leader Adam Bland is a further shot back in third after the left-hander signed for a one-under 71. Fellow Australians David Bransdon (66) and Marc Leishman (74) are tied for fourth at 10-under 206.
”Obviously not the way I planned to finish,“ Zunic told reporters. ”It was 16 amazing holes and to be honest I didn’t think I did anything too wrong in the final two holes.
“It was an unbelievable day out there.”
Zunic, who was involved in a near-fatal car crash in the United States four years ago that left him with serious head and elbow injuries, played impeccable golf until the 17th where he produced a bogey-five.
He had made seven birdies on the front nine, including four in a row from the sixth, before making four more successive birdies from the 13th.
His storming run was halted on the penultimate hole before he found a fairway bunker on 18 and needed two putts to get down for a double-bogey six, while Smith saved par after a superb greenside chip left him less than two meters from the pin.
”He put on a bit of display for the first 13 or 14 holes,“ Smith said of Zunic’s round. ”It was pretty incredible to watch and he was just a magician on the greens, I think he only had 15 putts in the first 14 holes.
“But I didn’t let Jordan’s round get ahead of me and kept on doing what I was doing. I knew I was playing well and putting well and made the most of my chances.”
U.S. Masters champion Sergio Garcia was alone in seventh on eight-under 208 after shooting 70, the Spaniard mixing four birdies with two bogeys.
The final round will begin early on Sunday due to predicted thunderstorms for the Gold Coast region later in the day.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Friday’s NBA games.
Thunder 111, Timberwolves 107
The Oklahoma City Thunder’s troublesome trend of letting second-half leads disappear looked like it was going to show itself again.
The Minnesota Timberwolves cut a double-digit Thunder lead to one possession with less than a minute to play, but Paul George hit two free throws with 5.2 seconds to play as the Thunder closed out a 111-107 win Friday night at Chesapeake Energy Arena.
George had 36 points and Oklahoma City center Steven Adams had 27.
Heat 105, Hornets 100
Josh Richardson scored a career-high 27 points to lead Miami over Charlotte.
Dion Waiters finished with 19 points and Wayne Ellington scored 14 points as the Heat overcame a 15-point first-quarter deficit.
Miami took the lead for good and secured the victory with nine unanswered points late in the fourth quarter. Goran Dragic’s short jumper with 2:23 remaining in the period began the surge putting the Heat ahead 97-96.
Jazz 114, Bucks 108
Donovan Mitchell scored a career-high 41 points and Alec Burks added 24 to help Utah rally past New Orleans.
Derrick Favors chipped in 18 points and 11 rebounds for Utah as the Jazz won their fifth straight.
New Orleans had no way to slow Mitchell down after Anthony Davis exited with an apparent leg injury in the opening minute of the fourth quarter. Davis had to be helped off the court and did not return. He finished with 19 points and 10 rebounds.
Kings 107, Bulls 106
Zach Randolph scored 25 points and grabbed 13 rebounds, Bogdan Bogdanovic scored 19 points and Garrett Temple finished with 13 as Sacramento was victorious on the road.
Willie Cauley-Stein also had 10 points for the Kings, who handed the Bulls their eighth straight loss.
Bogdanovic capped the victory by splitting a pair of free throws in the closing seconds before Jerian Grant hit a 3-point field goal at the buzzer as the Bulls suffered their second one-point loss in as many nights.
Spurs 95, Grizzlies 79
LaMarcus Aldridge scored 22 points and Rudy Guy added 18 to lead San Antonio. The Spurs extended the Grizzlies’ losing streak to 10 games, the longest in the NBA this season.
Marc Gasol had 16 points to lead the Grizzlies and Ben McLemore scored a season-high 14. Chandler Parsons added 12.
The Spurs (15-7), who beat Memphis 104-95 Wednesday night in San Antonio, pulled away from the Grizzlies in the fourth quarter and led by as many as 28 points down the stretch.
Warriors 133, Magic 112
Klay Thompson scored 27 points and hot-shooting Golden State led from start to finish.
Kevin Durant scored 25 points and made 10 of 14 shots, but he was ejected with 4:52 remaining for cursing at an official following his final basket.
Steph Curry had 23 points and 10 assists. Jordan Bell had 16 points. Draymond Green scored 12 points, including back-to-back 3-pointers in the second period.
Wizards 109, Pistons 91
Washington outscored Detroit 35-15 in the third quarter and evened its record on the season without All-Star John Wall.
Markieff Morris scored a season-high 23 points and Otto Porter had 17 for the Wizards, who had lost five of seven games. That includes two of the last three without Wall. The point guard was shut down on Nov. 25 after receiving injections in his left knee to help relieve inflammation.
Tobias Harris scored 15 points for the Pistons. Detroit had won three in a row.
Raptors 120, Pacers 115
DeMar DeRozan scored 26 points and added five assists and five rebounds to lead Toronto.
It was the third win in a row for the Raptors and the second straight loss for the Pacers who got 36 points, seven rebounds and six assists from Victor Oladipo.


(Reuters) - Below are the odds for who will win the 2018 World Cup in Russia following the group stage draw at the Kremlin in Moscow on Friday.
Germany    9/2
Brazil     5/1
France     11/2
Argentina  8/1
Spain      8/1
Belgium    12/1
England    20/1
Portugal   28/1
Uruguay    28/1
Colombia   28/1
(Source: William Hill)


LONDON (Reuters) - Alfa Romeo’s return to Formula One shows the value of the sport and suggests Ferrari will not follow through on threats to leave, according to Red Bull principal Christian Horner.
Alfa Romeo is part of the Fiat Chrysler group whose chief executive Sergio Marchionne is also the head of sportscar maker Ferrari, who are Formula One’s most successful and glamorous team.
The Swiss Sauber team announced on Thursday that the Italian marque was returning to the sport as their title sponsor after a 30-year absence, with the team to be known as Alfa Romeo Sauber F1 from next season.
“They (Alfa) come under the same management as Sergio so I can’t believe he’d have brought Alfa Romeo in for Ferrari to be leaving in a couple of years,” Horner told Reuters.
“I think it demonstrates that Formula One is obviously working and creating the recognition, otherwise the group wouldn’t have brought the Alfa brand into Formula One,” he added.
Alfa has a long history in motor racing, from pre-World War Two days to the winning the first two Formula One drivers’ championships in 1950 and 1951. Enzo Ferrari worked for them  before building his first car in 1947.
Marchionne warned in November that Ferrari, who were spun off from Fiat Chrysler at the start of last year, could walk away if the sport took a direction contrary to the company’s interests.
He will attend an Alfa Romeo Sauber presentation in Arese, near Milan, on Saturday.
Horner, who was speaking at the launch of the Aston Martin R-Motorsport sportscar team in London on Thursday, has previously dismissed Marchionne’s comments as ‘bluster’.
“Formula One needs Ferrari and Ferrari needs Formula One. It’s a marriage of convenience in many respects but both entities ultimately need each other. And we certainly want Ferrari in Formula One,” he said.
“A Formula One with Ferrari in, it’s one of the biggest brands in the world and they are a great team to compete against.”
Sauber will use Ferrari engines next year, along with the U.S.-owned Haas team and Ferrari’s works outfit.
Red Bull are one of three using Renault power units but the future is clouded by uncertainty, with the engine regulations set for a change in 2021.
Aston Martin will be Red Bull’s title sponsors next season and chief executive Andy Palmer has spoken of the possibility of the British sportscar company eventually building an engine if the rules provide for a much cheaper and simpler unit.
“Liberty (the Formula One owners) are very keen to reduce costs to simplify the engine and to attract new brands into Formula One,” said Horner.
”Aston are extremely keen to have an increased presence and I think we’re all in a little bit of a holding pattern at the moment waiting to see what are those regulations going to be.
“You’d have to partner with a specialist, and research and development cost resource restrictions would have to be in place in order for there to be a playing field that they could compete on,” he added.
(This version of the story corrects the second paragraph to make clear Ferrari is not controlled by Fiat Chrysler group)


(Reuters) - Canada’s minister of sport is pushing for Calgary to bid for the 2026 Winter Olympics and said the legacy from the last time the western Canadian city hosted the Games was worth it, according to a CBC report on Friday.
At a time when many cities have pulled out of Olympics bids given concerns about massive costs, Canadian sports minister Kent Hehr told CBC he feels the 1988 Winter Games host would benefit from doing it again.
”I know an Olympic bid, deep in my heart, would be something that would be extraordinary,“ Hehr said in the report. ”But you have to balance it in a real way.
“We’re always excited when communities like Calgary are thinking about putting their hat in the ring about bringing the Olympic Games to this nation.”
Cities around the world are no longer clamoring to host an Olympics. Many in recent years have removed themselves from consideration, either scared off by the size and cost of the Games or pressured by local opposition.
Calgary’s city council recently voted to give C$1 million to continue research into bidding to host the 2026 Games. A bid exploration committee has estimated that staging the sporting extravaganza would come with a price tag of about C$4.6 billion.
According to Hehr, there was plenty of economic uncertainty in Calgary during the late 1970s and early 1980s and many people who did not want the city to host the Olympics.
“There were lots of naysayers around that as well,” Hehr told CBC. “But the legacy that was left, the opportunities it gave kids in the community to develop, I think were well worth the angst and the time.”
According to the CBC article, while Hehr feels an Olympics in Calgary would offer a sense of pride to all of Canada, he continues to maintain a balanced and measured approach.
“Of course you look at all of the possibilities and they’re exciting but you have to look at it in a real fashion. Do the numbers make sense too? Will this lead your community in a better place given all the intangibles surrounding the Olympic bid?”


EINDHOVEN, Netherlands (Reuters) - Amid the flurry of doping and corruption scandals which have hit sport over the last few years, it is often asked why athletes do not make more use their influence to force change. Brazil is a rare case where they can claim to have done so.
Latin America’s largest nation has suffered more than its fair share of sports-related scandal.
The former head of the Brazilian Olympic Committee (COB), Carlos Nuzman, is to stand trial for his role in a corruption case involving alleged bribery in Rio de Janeiro’s successful bid to host of the 2016 Games. Nuzman has denied wrongdoing.
Five Brazilians are among several dozen former soccer officials and sports marketing executives who were indicted in the United States in 2015 in a case which plunged global soccer body FIFA into its worst ever crisis.
Meanwhile, many of the venues used at the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympic Games had fallen into neglect.
But behind the scenes, changes are taking place.
Four years ago, Brazil’s Senate passed a bill that placed a two-term limit on the mandates of presidents sporting confederations which receive public funding.
It also obliged the federations to publish their annual accounts and include athletes in the decision-making process.
Those changes, considered hugely significant in a country where some officials have clung to power for decades, were forced through after intense lobbying from a group called “Atletas pelo Brasil” (Athletes for Brasil).
Founded in 2006, their members include some of Brazil’s most famous former athletes like volleyball player Ana Moser, Formula One’s Rubens Barrichello, former Brazil soccer captain Cafu, basketball player Oscar Schmidt and middle-distance athlete Joaquim Cruz.
Its president is Rai Oliveira, a member of Brazil’s World Cup winning team in 1994, and the younger brother of the late Socrates who was regarded as one of the finest footballers the country has ever produced.
“We have 67 athletes from different generations and different sports, men and women, I think that makes us unique maybe in the world,” he told Reuters on the sidelines of the Play the Game sports conference.
“It’s certainly a pioneering imitative in Brazil where athletes don’t have a culture of taking a stand and starting a movement.”
Rai said his organization scored another victory in 2015 when some of Brazil’s biggest companies agreed that sponsorship money would only be made available to federations which meet high levels of transparency and governance.
“The surprising thing was that even rivals companies got together,” he said. “A lot of company directors like sport and that helped us achieve it. They also realized there was no point in one company doing not if others did not follow suit.”
Rai said that 27 companies have so far signed the so-called Pact for Sport, representing 60 percent of total sports sponsorship money in Brazil.
The big exception have been sponsors involved in soccer but Rai said negotiations were continuing with them as well.
The latest battle is to force a change in COB statutes which would give athletes one third of the votes in its electoral college. A vote was postponed on Monday and is due to take place in December.
Rai recognized that there was still a long way to go and said the Olympic legacy was a setback.
”What was left? Abandoned Olympic venues, white elephants, lack of planning for the next Olympic cycles, decrease in public spending for sports...“ he said. ”But today, we have a voice, we are respected and we are being called to attend important discussions.
”We know the big fight is still to be won... we want better sports in our schools, better sports for all, better
governance.
“Our goal is to have a country where everyone can have access to sports - we put the bar very high.”


LAUSANNE (Reuters) - The International Olympic Committee (IOC) said on Friday it had banned two Russian cross-country skiers, Yulia Chekaleva and Anastasia Dotsenko, and Russian biathlete Olga Zaytseva for life from the Olympics over Sochi 2014 doping allegations.
The IOC is re-testing all Russian athletes’ samples from the event after Grigory Rodchenkov, the former head of Moscow’s discredited anti-doping laboratory, blew the whistle on what he said was a state-sponsored doping program.
The three Russian athletes are found to have committed anti-doping rule violations at the Winter Olympics in Sochi and are disqualified from the events in which they participated, the IOC statement said.
Chekaleva and Dotsenko competed but did not win medals in Sochi. Zaytseva won the silver medal in a four-woman race.
The number of cases opened by the Disciplinary Commission has reached 36 after additional findings from the re-analyses, the IOC said.
The head of the Russian Ski Race Federation, Elena Vyalbe, said the IOC decisions would be appealed in the Court of Arbitration for Sport in Lausanne, the RIA news agency reported.
Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev has said that  allegations that Russian athletes used doping during the 2014 Sochi Olympics are “political manipulations” in a new anti-Russian campaign.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - FIFA President Gianni Infantino on Friday dodged questions about the alleged existence of a state-sponsored doping program in Russia, the host country of next year’s World Cup finals that has dismissed the allegations.
Infantino was speaking alongside Russian Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Mutko, who also serves as the head of the Russian Football Union and the chairman of the tournament’s local organizing committee, ahead of the World Cup draw at the Kremlin.
“FIFA doesn’t participate in any speculations about any situation,” he said, referring to allegations of state-sponsored doping in Russia that could see the country banned from the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in February.
Infantino said FIFA was testing players in and out of competition and that all tests from the 2017 Confederations Cup, the 2016 European championship and the 2014 World Cup had proven negative.
“These tests are not carried out in Russia and they are carried out by non-Russians,” Infantino told reporters.
“Obviously, as it was the case in the past and as will be the case in the future as well, if it turns out that anyone has committed a doping violation, has taken some doping, then there will be sanctions.”
Infantino added that the International Olympic Committee’s (IOC) decision next week on Russia’s participation at the winter Games would have no impact on the World Cup, which will take place in 12 venues spread across 11 cities including Moscow, St Petersburg and Sochi.
Mutko vehemently denied the existence of state-backed doping in Russia and said the country was being unfairly targeted by international sports authorities.
“I am ready to go to any court, to any disciplinary body and say that there was never, isn’t and never will be any doping cover up program,” Mutko said. “We don’t need any of this.”
Despite pledges to cooperate with international bodies to help rid Russia of deep-seated doping, the authorities have refused to acknowledge the findings of last year’s McLaren report that a state-sponsored program existed.
That refusal has thwarted Russia’s efforts to have its suspended sports organizations reinstated.
The country’s athletics federation, Paralympic committee and anti-doping agency RUSADA all remain suspended over doping scandals.
The report, commissioned by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), found that more than 1,000 Russian competitors in more than 30 sports were involved in a conspiracy to conceal positive drug tests over a period of five years.
“There can be endless accusations,” Mutko said. “But I can say that we didn’t create doping.”
Mutko stressed that Russia would continue to protect its athletes and fight the recent bans against suspected dope cheats.
“The state will take a firm position and will defend its athletes until the bitter end,” he said. “We trust and believe them. We will go to civil courts. We won’t leave things like this.”
The IOC last month banned more than 20 Russian athletes as part of an investigation into alleged sample tampering by laboratory and security officials at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi.


(Reuters) - Marc Leishman and Adam Bland carved out a two-stroke lead at the top of the leaderboard after the second round of the Australian PGA Championship on Friday as former winner Adam Scott’s campaign came to an end.
Local hero Leishman struck seven birdies and an eagle in a round of seven-under-par 65 to be level on 12-under with Adam Bland who hit a second consecutive six-under 66.
“I felt really good on the range and felt good yesterday as well. I was striking the ball well and thought I would be pretty aggressive all day, especially after making birdies on the first couple of holes,” said Leishman, who had birdies on three of his first five holes.
“When you’re on a run like that and playing well, you sort of can afford to be aggressive. If you make a few mistakes, you feel like you can make some birdies.”
South Australian Bland had just one bogey in his seven birdies on Friday.
“It’s always great to get off to a flying start but if you can’t back it up in the second round or at least be thereabouts, you’re kind of just chasing your tail for the rest of the week,” Bland said.
“So it was really important to get off to a good start this morning and I seemed to do that, so it was great.”
Former world number one Scott had four bogeys in five holes to card a dismal two-over 74 and failed to make the cut at Queensland while U.S. Masters champion Sergio Garcia fell to joint-10th with a one-under 71.
Cameron Smith, early leader Jordan Zunic and Rhein Gibson were tied for fourth at nine-under.
Defending champion Harold Varner III was a further two shots behind in joint-seventh alongside James Nitties and Brett Rankin.
Garcia, Joachim Hansen, Peter Senior and Hong Kong Open winner Wade Ormsby were 10th at six-under. Varner, Garcia and Hansen were the only non-Australians in the top 10 heading into the weekend.


(Reuters) - The Seattle Sounders eased to a 3-0 victory over the Houston Dynamo in the second leg of their Major League Soccer Western Conference Championship on Thursday to set up a rematch of last year’s MLS Cup final against Toronto FC.
The defending champions will travel to Toronto for the Dec. 9 final after dispatching Houston 5-0 on aggregate, cruising to victory over a weakened Dynamo side, who were reduced to 10 men after 66 minutes and missing ailing marksman Romell Quioto.
“It’s a tremendous opportunity,” Sounders goalkeeper Stefan Frei told reporters of the chance to repeat as champions against top-seeded Toronto. “We’re going to give it our best shot to take advantage of it.”
The second-seeded Sounders were barely pushed by the fourth-seeded Dynamo as Seattle managed to avoid conceding a goal for an MLS-record sixth straight post-season tie and extended their unbeaten home streak to 15 games.
Seattle’s last home loss came at the hands of Toronto FC on May 1 but they will need to travel to Canada for the final due to their opponent’s superior regular-season record.
Victor Rodriguez opened the scoring for the Sounders at the mid-point of the first half when he lifted a deft chip over Houston keeper Joe Willis and Clint Dempsey doubled the lead in the 57th minute, tapping in a low cross from Joevin Jones.
Will Bruin completed the rout with another chip past an out-rushing Willis in the 73rd minute to send the 45,298 green-clad Seattle fans into a frenzy on a cool and clear evening.
Houston’s main threat came from Tomas Martinez, who had two smart shots saved by Frei late in the first half before he was dismissed after the break for shoving Jordy Delem on the back of the head while the Seattle midfielder was lying on the ground.
The pair had made initial contact while jumping for a high ball and the red card came after a video review of the incident by the referee.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Thursday’s National Basketball Association games:
Cavaliers 121, Hawks 114
Cleveland’s defense wasn’t what it had been during most of its winning streak, but a season-best 18 3-pointers in 39 attempts were enough to carry the Cavaliers past the Atlanta Hawks 121-114 on Thursday for their 10th consecutive victory.
Kevin Love had 25 points and 16 rebounds, and LeBron James had 24 points and 12 assists as Cleveland held on despite a scare from Atlanta.
The Hawks, down by 12 points late in the third quarter, closed to 113-112 on two free throws by Ersan Ilyasova, but James hit a 3-pointer with just under two minutes left to help the Cavaliers regain control.
Dennis Schroder had 27 points and Ilyasova 22 for Atlanta.
Celtics 108, 76ers 97
Kyrie Irving scored 36 points to power Boston over undermanned but feisty Philadelphia.
Irving and Marcus Morris keyed a 17-7 fourth-quarter run that broke the game open and gave the Celtics a ninth win in their last 10 home games. It was also the seventh straight TD Garden victory for Boston over the 76ers.
The Celtics’ Al Horford had 21 points, eight rebounds and five assists. Morris finished with 17 points off the bench, one off his season high. He scored six straight points late in the third quarter and seven more during the fourth-quarter spurt.
Dario Saric led Philadelphia with 18 points and 10 rebounds.
Nuggets 111, Bulls 110
Will Barton hit a driving layup with 3.2 seconds left to finish with a career-high 37 points, and Denver overcame Nikola Jokic’s ankle injury to pull out a win over Chicago.
Barton scored six points in the final 45 seconds to rescue the Nuggets against the team with the worst record in the NBA. Gary Harris scored 21 for Denver.
Jokic was hurt with 44 seconds left in the first half. He went to the locker room for X-rays and didn’t return. Lauri Markkanen had 20 points and nine rebounds, Robin Lopez also scored 20 and Kris Dunn had 19 points for the Bulls, who lost their seventh straight game.
Jazz 126, Clippers 107
Alec Burks scored 28 points, and Donovan Mitchell added 24 as Utah moved their win streak to four games with a victory over Los Angeles.
The Jazz improved to 2-7 away from home this year, with the other victory coming at Orlando on Nov. 18. It was only the fourth time Utah defeated the Clippers in the past 23 meetings.
Austin Rivers scored a season-high 25 points for Los Angeles, which saw its three-game win streak come to an end. Lou Williams scored 20 points for the Clippers, while DeAndre Jordan grabbed 16 rebounds and added eight points.
Bucks 103, Trail Blazers 91
Khris Middleton scored 26 points and Eric Bledsoe added 25 as Milwaukee defeated Portland.
Giannis Antetokounmpo contributed 20 points, nine rebounds, five assists and three blocked shots for the Bucks. Bledsoe scored 17 points on 8-of-10 shooting to lead Milwaukee to a 60-45 halftime edge.


MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Football Federation Australia’s embattled chairman Steven Lowy believes a FIFA takeover of Australian soccer would be a “reputational” black eye for the sport but hopes to work with the global governing body to resolve a festering power struggle.
Lowy suffered a huge blow to his credibility on Thursday when he failed to get the numbers to pass key governance reforms by a FIFA-imposed deadline.
FIFA has demanded the FFA make its Congress, which votes for members of the board, more democratic but Lowy’s proposed model was rejected by club owners and two powerful states at an annual general meeting.
That has paved the way for FIFA to install a “normalisation committee” which would mean sacking the FFA board and taking control of the game in Australia until a new administration can be formed.
FIFA is not expected to act until after a members committee meeting next week, and Lowy said he was hopeful of resolving the crisis to avert a takeover.
“We believe we will be able to work with FIFA on sorting this out going forward,” he told local broadcaster Fox Sports.
”Of course I’d be incredibly sad (if there was a takeover)... it would be a very sad day if FIFA or anyone else comes in, removed the board and basically removes the independence of the game.
“I think our game would suffer deeply. It would suffer reputationally with government, with corporate sponsors and with fans.”
Although under pressure from club owners to stand down, Lowy, the son of former chairman and shopping centre tycoon Frank Lowy, has said he will stay in the role.
The Lowy family has dominated Australian soccer since the game was re-booted following the collapse of the top-flight National Soccer League in 2003 amid allegations of fraud and mismanagement.
Australia have qualified for four successive World Cups and won their maiden Asian Cup title in 2015 under the Lowys’ stewardship but the A-League remains a bit player in a crowded sports market dominated by rugby league and Australian Rules football.
That has not prevented A-League club owners from demanding a bigger share of FFA disbursements and more seats on the powerful Congress.
Unlike his more popular father who he succeeded two years ago, Lowy has struggled to hold together the uneasy coalition of clubs and state members, and his board has been accused of being aloof and allowing the A-League to stagnate in recent years.
“His and his organisation’s tin ear, their refusal to accept that it needed to change, the insistence that Lowy and his cadre of colleagues were the only ones who knew how to run Australian soccer has plunged the sport into disarray,” prominent soccer writer Michael Lynch wrote in Fairfax Media on Friday.


LONDON (Reuters) - Olympic champion Eliud Kipchoge will seek to complete a hat-trick of London Marathon victories next year after missing the 2017 event to focus on his Breaking2 sub-two hour bid, organizers said on Thursday.
The 33-year-old Kenyan won the 2015 race and finished eight seconds outside Dennis Kimetto’s world record time of 2:02:57 to triumph again 12 months later, but he did not defend his title this year to instead focus on the Nike Breaking2 project.
In that event he ran two hours and 25 seconds, though that time is not an official world record due to aspects of the event not satisfying IAAF criteria..
The former 5,000 meters world champion’s official best marathon time of 2:03:05 set in London in 2016 is the fourth-fastest in history. He came close to the world record again in Berlin this year, clocking 2:03:32 in damp conditions..
As always, questions about a potential world record were top of the agenda as Kipchoge held a conference call with journalists on Thursday. The last six world records were set at Berlin, with London last producing one in 2002 when Khalid Khannouchi ran 2:05.38.
“First of all I race to win but London is a good course, world records can be broken here. Remember last year I missed it by a few seconds so London is truly a place to break a world record,” he said.
”Berlin was difficult because the weather was not good but my time showed I was in the right shape. As ever with marathon running, everything needs to come right on the day.
“I know that I have the world record in me so we will have to wait and see what happens.”
Although most of the rest of the elite field is yet to be announced one name already inked in is that of Briton Mo Farah, having his second attempt at the distance but first after stepping away from his track career.
Farah ran 2:08.21 in 2014 and would need a major improvement to challenge for the title next year.
Kipchoge, who has won all but one of the marathons he has raced since stepping up from the track in 2013, said he expected a strong showing from the home favorite.
“It does take time to make that switch but I’m sure Mo will be successful. Mo is a legend and has responded to all sorts of pressure before,” he said.
“It’s great he will be racing the London Marathon next year because I’m sure that will make the atmosphere even more special.”


ZURICH (Reuters) - Russian sprinter Yulia Gushchina, who has previously been stripped of three relay medals won in the 2008 and 2012 Olympics after team mates were banned for doping, has also been disqualified from the London Games after testing positive, the International Olympic Committee said on Thursday.
Re-analysis of Gushchina’s samples from London resulted in a positive test for banned substances dehydrochlormethyltestosterone and stanozolol, the IOC said in a statement, the latest sanction as it re-tests samples from Russian athletes.
Gushchina, who failed to make the final in the individual 400m in London, helped Russia to a silver medal in the 4x400m relay but the quartet were stripped of the honor after Antonina Krivoshapka was banned retrospectively earlier this year.
In Beijing four years earlier she won gold in the 4x100 and silver in the 4x400 but had those results annulled after positive tests for team mates.
The IOC also said on Thursday that Russian long jumper Anna Nazarova had failed a retrospective test from 2012, where she finished fifth.
Thursday’s announcements were the latest in a stream of recent doping positives from the summer and winter Olympics, the vast majority of them Russians.
Russia’s athletics federation is currently banned from the sport as is its Paralympic Committee and anti-doping organization in the wake of widespread doping offences and cover-ups.
The IOC has said it will decide during its executive board meeting next month on the participation of Russian competitors at the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in South Korea in February.


EINDHOVEN, Netherlands (Reuters) - Allowing Russia to compete at the 2018 Winter Games would be “a missed opportunity” which would raise doubts about sport’s willingness to root out drug cheats, the head of the umbrella group of national anti-doping agencies told Reuters.
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) is due to decide next week whether Russia can take part in Pyeongchang and iNADO chief executive Joseph de Pencier said that its decision would be critical to anti-doping efforts.
A World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) report by Canadian law professor Richard McLaren published last year found evidence of widespread, systematic doping across Russian sport.
Russia has repeatedly denied state involvement in doping and on Wednesday the Kremlin said bans on the country’s athletes were part of an anti-Russian campaign in the West.
“If they don’t exclude the Russian Olympic Committee, then I think it’s a huge mistake and a wasted opportunity,” De Pencier said on the sidelines of a sports conference.
”It’s obviously a critical decision for the IOC. If the IOC get this wrong, they set back the work of all of us.
”They create doubts about clean sport and the willingness of the anti-doping community to make sure the job is done, and the commitment of sport as a whole to clean competition and clean athletes.
“If that happens, my members are going to be dealing with their governments, their press and their public asking how they can believe in clean sport.”
De Pencier said he could accept an arrangement where Russian athletes competed as neutrals as “something we can live with” but personally preferred a blanket ban, even if it meant innocent athletes suffered the consequences.
Dmitry Svishchev, who is head of the Russian curling federation and serves on the Russian parliament’s sport and physical culture committee, urged the IOC “not to go for provocation”.
“We admit that there are some athletes, like anywhere in the world, who have taken banned substances. They need to be punished for this,” he told Reuters.
“But in no case should the whole national team, all the athletes who are preparing for the Olympic Games, all the spectators and fans of the Russian team be punished for the actions of some individuals.”
With Russia hosting next year’s soccer World Cup, De Pencier urged FIFA to “get to the bottom” of its own investigation into an allegation in the McLaren report that soccer was among the sports involved in doping.
“FIFA absolutely has to investigate this as an urgent matter and they have got to do it in good faith and with a will. Otherwise, they run the risk of having a big cloud over their event,” he said
“They have every incentive to get to the bottom of this and do it as quickly as possible.”
He added that FIFA should not be afraid of expelling Russia from its own tournament.
“Any multi-national sporting competition can carry on without a particular country being there, why couldn’t the World Cup in Russia? I acknowledge as a practical matter it’s hard to imagine that scenario and also the consequences that might cause, but why not?” he said.
Russia’s Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Mutko this month described allegations of doping in Russian soccer as “stupidity”.
FIFA said in a statement to Reuters that it was working in close collaboration with WADA “following their guidance and exploring every possible avenue.” It said it wanted the investigation finished quickly but that “robust procedures take time.”
FIFA said it had undertaken “comprehensive actions to identify potential anti-doping rule violations including retesting of all available samples” and that investigations remain open.


EINDHOVEN, Netherlands (Reuters) - The NFL’s Rooney Rule could be a way of bringing greater racial and ethnic diversity to European soccer coaching, campaigners said, as a new survey confirmed that it remains a white, male preserve.
The Rooney Rule was introduced in the NFL in 2003 and obliged clubs to interview at least one candidate for every senior head coach role at its members clubs.
A study published by Britain’s Loughborough University and the Football Against Racism in Europe (FARE) group on Thursday found that only 4.6 percent of coaches from black and ethnic minorities (BAME) occupied senior coaching roles at England’s 92 professional soccer clubs.
It described the numbers as “disappointingly low” and added that “institutionally embedded barriers which have restricted opportunities for BAME coaches in the past” remained firmly in place.
The results were an update of a survey in 2014 which found that 96.6 percent of senior coaches at clubs in England, Germany, Spain, Belgium, France and the Netherlands were white men.
FARE executive director Piara Powar said that, given that around 30 percent of players in England and 40 percent in France and the Netherlands were from a BAME background,  “the numbers don’t add up”.
“(BAME) coaches are investing time and money, they are expressing their willingness to take on responsible roles at the top level,” he told Reuters on the sidelines of a sports conference.
“But it seems that at club level, owners are not prepared to give them the opportunity.”    Powar said it was not only an issue of discrimination but also performance.
“No football team can afford to miss out on coaching talent,” he said. “If you look at the professional structures in Western Europe... marginal gains are being talked about, the importance of one, two or three points at the end of the season, so why would owners and associations not look at recruiting the best talent regardless of the ethnic background?”
Powar said that the Rooney rule could improve the situation especially in countries such as England, France, the Netherlands and Portugal.
“If it’s applied in the way that it is in the United States, with the back up the NFL has created, then it will work,” he said. “It will be seen as something that is very normal and is bringing forward the best talent.”
Jeremy Duri, professor of sports law at the American university in Washington, said the number of non-white NFL coaches went from one to three and then nine before settling between six and eight after the rule was implemented.
“Those who got the opportunity won, they were successful,” he said.
“Since 2007, ten of 20 teams who reached the Superbowl final had a coach of color or general manager of color. The fact they were winning created a business case for diversity.”


(Reuters) - Sao Paulo’s first Formula E race has been postponed to 2019  because the Brazilian city’s authorities are in the process of selling off the planned venue.
“The Sao Paulo city authorities have asked us to postpone the race to season five, due to an ongoing process of privatization of the Anhembi Park venue,” said a spokesperson for the all-electric series on Thursday.
“Racing in city centers always poses challenges and as this process is taking longer than expected, in agreement with the city of Sao Paulo, we’ve decided to place negotiations on stand-by until the privatization process is complete.”
Formula E’s fourth season starts in Hong Kong on Saturday, with Sao Paulo originally scheduled for March 17 next year as the fifth round of the 14 race season.
Brazil currently has two Formula E drivers with the inaugural champion Nelson Piquet Junior and title holder Lucas di Grassi.
The Sao Paulo race was one of four new venues on the calendar along with Rome, Zurich and the Chilean capital of Santiago.
Formula E said a replacement for the Brazilian round would be presented to the governing International Automobile Federation (FIA) in Paris next week.
Sao Paulo city authorities are also in the process of privatizing the Interlagos circuit that hosts the Brazilian Formula One Grand Prix.


(Reuters) - U.S. Masters Champion Sergio Garcia carded a bogey-free, five-under-par 67 at the Australian PGA Championships in Queensland on Thursday to trail local pair Jordan Zunic and Adam Bland by a single stroke after the opening round.
Bland surged to the top of the leaderboard with the help of six birdies in seven holes, while Zunic closed with an eagle-three on the par-five ninth to overtake Garcia, who had set the early clubhouse target at a rain-delayed Royal Pines.
The Spaniard, playing in Australia for the first time since 2010, is the only non-local in the top 14 and sits joint-third alongside Marc Leishman, Daniel Nisbet, Michael Wright and veteran Peter Senior.
“I wouldn’t say that it was amazing but it was good,” Garcia said after his round at the tournament co-sanctioned by the PGA Tour of Australasia and European Tour.
”The most positive thing for me would be to go a bogey-free round, which I didn’t realize until we got done.
“Hopefully I‘m able to do more of the same but every day’s a different story and it also depends on the weather. If it gets windy it can be quite tricky, this course.”
Former Australian Masters winner Senior announced his retirement in 2016 but returned to action on Thursday with a spotless round that included five birdies to match Garcia’s score.
Seven players, including Rhein Gibson, Greg Chalmers and Cameron Smith, were a further shot behind in joint-eighth.
Defending champion Harold Varner III, recent Hong Kong Open winner Wade Ormsby and 2013 U.S. Masters champion Adam Scott are well off the pace on one-under.


(Reuters) - Larry Nassar, the former USA Gymnastics team doctor, pleaded guilty in a Michigan court on Wednesday to additional counts of criminal sexual conduct for assaulting girls under the guise of medical treatment, Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette said.
Nassar, 54, appeared in Michigan’s Eaton County Circuit Court and pleaded guilty to three felony counts of first degree criminal sexual conduct.
He did not make a statement beyond briefly answering the judge’s questions, according to The Detroit News. Nassar’s attorneys did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Nassar was the team physician for the Michigan State University gymnastics and women’s crew teams, as well as an associate professor at MSU’s College of Osteopathic Medicine. He served as the USA Gymnastics physician through four Olympic Games.
Last week, Nassar pleaded guilty in nearby Ingham County to seven felony counts of first-degree criminal sexual conduct despite his earlier denials of wrongdoing..
Wednesday’s guilty pleas put an end to criminal sexual conduct charges brought by the Michigan Attorney General’s office against Nassar in Eaton and Ingham counties.
The Eaton County sentencing hearing will be held on Jan. 31.
The Ingham County sentencing hearing will be held on Jan. 12 when all of the 125 reported victims or their parents will be allowed to give victim impact statements.
Last week’s plea deal with prosecutors calls for a minimum prison sentence of 25 years but the judge could set the minimum as high as 40 years.
Nassar’s plea deal follows claims by two of the United States’ most decorated gymnasts, Aly Raisman and Gabby Douglas, that they had been sexually abused by the former USA Gymnastics team doctor.
Three-times Olympic gold medalist Douglas earlier this month said she was sexually abused by Nassar while Raisman, also a three-times gold medalist, made similar allegations in an interview with CBS News program “60 Minutes.”
During the Nov. 22 hearing, Nassar apologized and said it was time for his victims to begin healing, The Detroit News reported.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Wednesday’s National Basketball Association games:
Warriors 127, Lakers 123
Stephen Curry scored 13 of his 28 points in overtime to lift the Golden State Warriors to a 127-123 victory against the Los Angeles Lakers on Wednesday.
Curry was 1 of 7 from 3-point range before starting overtime with back-to-back 3-pointers to give the Warriors a 115-109 lead. He shot 5 of 6 from the free-throw line in the final 1:14 to hold off Los Angeles.
Kevin Durant scored 29 points and Klay Thompson had 20 for the Warriors. Draymond Green had 15 points, 11 rebounds and nine assists, and Zaza Pachulia matched his season high with 11 points
Brandon Ingram scored a career-high 32 points to lead the Lakers. Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Jordan Clarkson contributed 21 points apiece, and Julius Randle scored 20.
Rockets 118, Pacers 97
James Harden posted 29 points, eight rebounds and 10 assists as Houston beat Indiana.
With the Rockets leading 70-64, Harden scored 13 points over the final 3:54 of the third, including three consecutive 3-pointers after starting the game 0 of 6 from behind the arc. When Harden drilled a 3-pointer with nine seconds left in the period, the Rockets secured an 89-71 lead en route to their sixth straight victory.
Clint Capela also posted a double-double for Houston with 22 points and 13 rebounds, and Ryan Anderson fell a rebound short while scoring 19 points. Thaddeus Young led Indiana with 23 points.
Spurs 104, Grizzlies 95
LaMarcus Aldridge scored a season-high 41 points, tying the most points he has scored for San Antonio, in a victory over Memphis.
Aldridge’s performance was his best in the regular season in the three years he has played for the Spurs and his fourth 30-plus point game of the season. He had 41 points in a playoff game in 2016 against Oklahoma City in his first year in San Antonio. Patty Mills added 13 points for San Antonio, and Kyle Anderson and Tony Parker contributed 10 points apiece.
Tyreke Evans scored 22 points for the Grizzlies, who have lost nine consecutive games. The contest was the first for interim Memphis coach J.B. Bickerstaff, who replaced the fired David Fizdale.
Magic 121, Thunder 108
Aaron Gordon scored 40 points, and Orlando snapped a nine-game losing streak by beating Oklahoma City.
Gordon dominated the game by hitting 13 of 23 shots, including six of 12 from 3-point range. He produced his second career 40-point game and fell one shy of his career high set Oct. 24 against the Brooklyn Nets.
The Thunder lost their third consecutive game and their fifth in the past six despite getting 37 points and 11 rebounds from Russell Westbrook. Paul George scored 22 points and Carmelo Anthony had 16 points for Oklahoma City.
76ers 118, Wizards 113
Rookie Ben Simmons collected career highs of 31 points and 18 rebounds as Philadelphia held off Washington.
Joel Embiid had 25 points, 14 boards and four blocked shots for the 76ers, who closed out their season-high, six-game homestand with their fourth victory. Simmons, who entered the game shooting 56.6 percent at the free throw-line, was repeatedly fouled intentionally in the fourth quarter. He went 12 of 24 in the quarter and 15 of 29 in the game.
Bradley Beal scored 21 points for the Wizards despite sitting out the last 15 minutes of the first half with a facial contusion.
Pistons 131, Suns 107
Reggie Jackson had a season-high 23 points and five assists as Detroit never trailed in thumping Phoenix.
Tobias Harris and Avery Bradley contributed 20 points apiece for the Pistons, who shot 57.3 percent and won for the fourth time in five games. Andre Drummond supplied 13 points, seven rebounds and a career-high tying seven assists.
Devin Booker’s 22 points led the Suns, who lost for the fourth time in five games. Rookie Josh Jackson had a career-high 20 points and seven rebounds, and Greg Monroe added 14 points, seven rebounds and five assists for Phoenix.
Timberwolves 120, Pelicans 102
Andrew Wiggins scored 28 points, and Minnesota defeated New Orleans.
Jimmy Butler and Gorgui Dieng supported Wiggins with 19 points apiece. Tyus Jones scored 16, Jamal Crawford had 12, Karl-Anthony Towns 11 and Taj Gibson 10 for the Timberwolves. Towns and Gibson grabbed 10 rebounds apiece.
Minnesota took control midway through the second quarter after Pelicans All-Star forward Anthony Davis was ejected for the first time in his six-year career after getting two technical fouls. Jrue Holiday led New Orleans with 27 points.
Knicks 115, Heat 86
Enes Kanter had 22 points and 14 rebounds, and Courtney Lee added 17 points as New York defeated Miami.
The Knicks snapped a three-game losing streak despite the loss of the NBA’s fourth-leading scorer, Kristaps Porzingis, less than three minutes into the game with a sprained ankle. Porzingis had X-rays done on his ankle that came back negative, and the Knicks announced quickly that he was able to return, but he didn‘t.
Kelly Olynyk had 18 points to lead the Heat, who shot only 38.1 percent from the field and were outrebounded 52-31.
Raptors 126, Hornets 113
Kyle Lowry scored a season-best 36 points with six assists and five rebounds, and DeMar DeRozan added 30 points with six assists and four rebounds as Toronto defeated Charlotte.
Jonas Valanciunas added 12 points and seven rebounds, and Norman Powell had 10 points for the Raptors, who won their second straight.
Dwight Howard had 22 points and 10 rebounds for the Hornets, who lost their third straight. Charlotte played without All-Star point guard Kemba Walker, who has a shoulder injury.
Nets 109, Mavericks 104
DeMarre Carroll scored 22 points and Brooklyn finished off a winning road trip by slipping past Dallas.
Carroll, back in the lineup after missing one game with an upper respiratory infection, knocked down 7 of 14 shots as the Nets went 2-1 on a three-game trek in the Western Conference. Carroll scored 15 in the third quarter in only his second 20-point game this season.


(Reuters) - Evergreen American Venus Williams has dismissed any notion of announcing her retirement anytime soon, saying she is eager to compete at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.
The 37-year-old had a successful year in the absence of her sister Serena through pregnancy, climbing to number five in the singles rankings after finishing runner-up at the Australian Open, Wimbledon and the WTA Finals.
The seven-time grand slam winner has competed in five previous Olympics tournaments, starting in 2000, and has won three golds in the women’s doubles event with Serena and one gold in the singles competition.
“I have no plans of stopping soon,” Williams told American magazine Entrepreneur. “It seems somehow that 2020 Tokyo is on the horizon. Isn’t that wild? I‘m trying to stick around for that.”
The Williams sisters along with ATP Tour veterans Roger Federer and Rafa Nadal have re-established their dominance at the top of the sport with Serena winning her 23rd grand slam title aged 35 at the 2017 Australian Open.
Spaniard Nadal, 31, reclaimed the men’s number one spot with six trophies this year, while 36-year-old Federer finished second after winning seven titles. The pair split the season’s four grand slams between them.
The sisters will resume their rivalry next season as Serena is expected to make a long-awaited return following the birth of her daughter in September.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Wednesday’s National Hockey League games:
Avalanche 3, Jets 2 (OT)
Nathan MacKinnon scored a power-play goal 59 seconds into overtime and the Colorado Avalanche beat the Winnipeg Jets 3-2 on Wednesday.
MacKinnon also had an assist, Alexander Kerfoot produced a goal and an assist, and Nikita Zadorov scored for the Avalanche.
Goaltender Semyon Varlamov had 31 saves in his return to the lineup after missing four games because of illness. Bryan Little and Josh Morrissey scored and Connor Hellebuyck had 23 saves for the Jets.
Ducks 3, Blues 2
Antoine Vermette scored two goals and John Gibson stopped 37 of 39 shots to lead Anaheim over St Louis.
Kevin Roy also scored for the Ducks but Kyle Brodziak ruined Gibson’s bid for his first shutout of the season with 3:48 left in the game. Brodziak scored again with 17 seconds left to pull the Blues within a goal.
Canadiens 2, Senators 1
Montreal won its third consecutive game with a victory against Ottawa, which lost its seventh straight.
Jonathan Drouin, on a penalty shot, and Phillip Danault scored for the Canadiens and Carey Price made 27 saves. Price is 3-0-0 with two goals allowed since missing 10 games with a lower-body injury.
Mark Stone scored a shorthanded goal for the Senators, and Mike Condon made 29 saves.
Bruins 3, Lightning 2
Rookie defenseman Charlie McAvoy had a goal and an assist as Boston built a three-goal lead and held off league-leading Tampa Bay.
Boston’s fifth win in its last six games also marked the first victory in goal for Tuukka Rask (19 saves) since Nov. 5.


LAUSANNE (Reuters) - The International Olympic Committee (IOC) said on Wednesday it had banned for life three Russian bobsledders - Aleksandr Kasyanov, Aleksei Pushkarev and Ilvir Khuzin - over doping allegations related to the 2014 Sochi Olympics.
The IOC is re-testing all Russian athletes’ samples from the event after Grigory Rodchenkov, the former head of Moscow’s discredited anti-doping laboratory, blew the whistle on what he said was a state-sponsored doping program.
Russia denies the allegations, saying it is the victim of a politicized dirty tricks campaign designed to besmirch its reputation and curb its sporting success.
The IOC’s latest move brings the total number of Russian athletes handed life bans to more than 20 this month.
The Kremlin earlier on Wednesday said it would act to protect the rights of Russian athletes, criticizing the bans as part of a broad anti-Russian campaign in the West.
“We strongly reject all allegations that the state may have been involved in any way in forcing doping on Russian athletes,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a conference call with reporters.
Rodchenkov, who prosecutors in Russia accuse of forcing sportspeople to resort to doping, was “an odious figure in Russia”, Peskov said.
“Unfortunately, his sponsors and those sheltering him have a tin ear about this... And therefore the situation certainly remains complicated and the interests of our athletes suffer.”
Kasyanov, Pushkarev and Khuzin competed but did not win medals in Sochi, but were part of the team that won a four-man World Cup bobsleigh event last week.
The president of Russia’s bobsleigh federation, Alexander Zubkov, said the trio were “leaders of the national team” and accused international sports authorities of trying to weaken it.
“They will do everything possible for our country to go to the Olympics with a third or fourth-tier line-up,” Zubkov told a news conference in Moscow.
Zubkov was stripped last week of two gold medals from the 2014 Sochi Games and banned from the Olympics over doping. He says he is innocent and has vowed to appeal the bans against Russian bobsledders at the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS).
Zubkov’s lifetime ban from the Olympics also prevents him from being accredited to the 2018 winter Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea.
Zubkov said his absence from Pyeongchang would not affect the Russian bobsleigh team’s performance.
The IOC is set to decide next week on the participation of Russian competitors at next year’s Games.


TOKYO (Reuters) - Sumo grand champion Harumafuji announced he would retire on Wednesday to take responsibility for injuring a junior wrestler in an incident that has threatened to taint the image of Japan’s national sport just as it was regaining popularity.
The 33-year-old Mongolian-born “yokozuna” (grand champion) had already apologized earlier this month after media reported he had beaten junior wrestler Takanoiwa while drinking at a restaurant-bar with other wrestlers.
“As yokozuka I feel responsible for injuring Takanoiwa and so will retire from today,” a stern-faced Harumafuji told a news conference carried live by several Japanese broadcasters in Fukuoka, southern Japan, site of the most recent tournament.
“I apologize from my heart to the people, sumo fans, the Japan Sumo Association, to supporters of my ‘stable’ (gym) and my ‘oyakata’ (coach) and his wife for causing such trouble.”
Harumafuji gave no details of the incident -- still under investigation by police -- which media reports said occurred when he got angry because the younger wrestler was checking his smartphone after being chastised for a bad attitude.
Takanoiwa, 27, did not take part in the latest tournament due to his injuries, which the sumo association said included a  fractured skull and concussion.
“I think it is my duty as a senior wrestler to correct and teach junior wrestlers when they are lacking in manners and civility,” Harumafuji said. “But I went too far,” he said, adding that the commotion was not alcohol-fuelled.
The incident has highlighted sumo’s struggle to reform harsh conditions that can breed violence in its closed, hierarchical world, although some wrestlers say there have been improvements in the decade since a trainee was beaten to death.
“Sumo, recognizing its responsibility as the sport with the longest history in Japan, must stamp out violence so that the expectations of the people, including youth, are not again betrayed,” Education Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi, whose ministry oversees sports, said in a parliamentary committee meeting.
Former yokozuna Isegahama, the head of the gym where Harumafuji trains and his mentor since he arrived in Japan at the age of 16, told the news conference he had never seen the Mongolian engage in violence and the incident was regrettable.
But he added: “He (Harumafuji) is the one who is most to blame for harming the status of yokozuna. He shouldn’t blame others.”
The head of an advisory body to the JSA, the Yokozuna Deliberation Council, had said this week the affair warranted “extremely harsh punishment” but did not issue a final decision because both the JSA and police were still investigating.
“There is almost no doubting that an act of violence was carried out,” Masato Kitamura, chairman of the panel, told a news conference after a council meeting on Monday.
“The general feeling within the council is that a strict disciplinary measure is required,” he added.
A former oyakata was sentenced to five years in prison in 2010 after a court found he had ordered wrestlers to beat 17-year-old trainee Takashi Saito, who had tried to run away, in 2007. Saito died from his injuries.
Mongolian yokozuna Asashoryu, who often found himself at odds with sumo authorities over his behavior, quit the sport that same year after a probe into reports of a drunken scuffle in Tokyo.
Those incidents and increased competition from other sports eroded the popularity of sumo, in which giant wrestlers clad in silk loin-cloths seek to topple, throw or push each other out of a raised ring.
However, January’s promotion of Japanese wrestler Kisenosato to grand champion, the first home-grown yokozuna in 19 years, helped to rebuild the sport’s fan base.
Harumafuji, one of many Mongolian wrestlers to dominate sumo in recent years, started his career in Japan at the age of 16 and was promoted to yokozuna in 2012. He has won nine grand tournaments in all.
Reflecting on his 17-year career in sumo, Harumafuji said: “I really love sumo. The way of sumo is not simply to be strong, but through sumo... I wanted to inspire the people and give them courage and hope.”The assault affair has grabbed headlines since the news broke earlier this month and on Wednesday was the second top news story on public broadcaster NHK, after the launch of a North Korean ballistic missile that splashed down near Japan.
Harumafuji’s retirement leaves three active yokozuna, including fellow Mongolians Hakuho and Kakuryu, with the former winning the most recent grand tournament in Fukuoka to extend his all-time record to 40 titles.


(Reuters) - Former world number one Serena Williams has yet to make a decision about her participation at the Australian Open, while world number 12 Svetlana Kuznetsova is also a doubt for the first grand slam of 2018 after undergoing wrist surgery.
Williams was around two months pregnant when she captured her 23rd grand slam singles title in Melbourne earlier this year and was hoping to defend her crown next January following the birth of her daughter in September.
”Serena is getting ready for 2018,“ the 36-year-old American’s coach Patrick Mouratoglou told CNN. ”She is practicing and getting back in shape. I will be joining her soon in Florida.
“We will see how her body is reacting and how her tennis level is and we will take a decision regarding Australia.”
Russian Kuznetsova told local media that she was recovering from wrist surgery conducted earlier this month after separate injuries to the area and said there was no specific time frame for her return.
“I had two injuries in my wrist, so I had to do the operation,” the 32-year-old double major winner said.
“There’s a very complicated diagnosis. I‘m still recovering and the doctor does not talk about specific dates when I can start training and play. Australia, most likely, I will have to miss.”
Meanwhile, Victoria Azarenka, who has not played since July due to an ongoing child custody battle, is set to return at the ASB Classic in January but will be without coach Michael Joyce, who released a statement on their partnership.
“Vika is an extremely talented player. While I am excited to see her return to tennis, I encourage and respect her decision to put her family first,” Joyce said of the Belarusian two-time Australian Open champion and former world number one.
“It is with deep regret that I have decided to move forward with my coaching career while she continues to work out her private life. I look forward to seeing her on the tour soon and wish her the best of luck.”
The Australian Open will be held from Jan. 15-28.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Tuesday’s National Hockey League games:
Sharks 3, Flyers 1
Chris Tierney and Marc-Edouard Vlasic scored even-strength goals, and Joe Thornton added a power-play tally as the San Jose Sharks opened a four-game road trip with a 3-1 win over the slumping Philadelphia Flyers on Tuesday night at the Wells Fargo Center.
Goaltender Aaron Dell, who filled in for injured starter Martin Jones, stopped 22 shots for the Sharks. San Jose extended its points streak to five games (3-0-2).
Claude Giroux scored for the Flyers, who lost for the ninth consecutive time (0-4-5). The Flyers have blown leads in seven of those nine games, including a 1-0 lead against the Sharks. The Flyers are riding their longest losing streak since the 2007-08 season, when they lost 10 in a row and still made the playoffs.
Panthers 5, Rangers 4
Florida squandered a three-goal lead, but Denis Malgin’s goal with 1:09 remaining proved to be the difference in a victory against New York.
Aleksander Barkov, Jamie McGinn and Micheal Haley staked the Panthers to a 3-0 lead in the first period. Jonathan Huburdeau had the Panthers’ fourth goal. James Reimer earned the win by making 33 saves.
Chris Kreider recorded two goals and an assist, Pavel Buchnevich had a goal and two assists, and David Desharnais had three assists for New York. J.T. Miller had the Rangers’ other goal. Ondrej Pavelec took the loss in relief despite stopping 19 of 21 shots after replacing Henrik Lundqvist during the first period.
Islanders 5, Canucks 2
Five players scored for New York, which remained red-hot with a victory over Vancouver.
Andrew Ladd, Calvin de Haan, Jordan Eberle, Andres Lee and John Tavares collected the goals for the Islanders, who have won four straight and seven of eight. New York is also unbeaten in regulation at home (8-0-2). Islanders goalie Jaroslav Halak recorded 23 saves.
Thomas Vanek and Bo Horvat scored for the Canucks, who have lost three straight (0-2-1) and five of seven (2-3-2). Goalie Anders Nilsson made 31 saves.
Lightning 2, Sabres 0
Andrei Vasilevskiy made 34 saves to lead Tampa Bay over Buffalo.
It was the second shutout of the season and the sixth of his career for Vasilevskiy, who leads the NHL in wins with 16.
Defensemen Mikhail Sergachev and Dan Girardi scored for the Lightning, who snapped a two-game losing streak.
Robin Lehner made 24 saves for the Sabres, whose struggles continued. Buffalo has one win in its past 10 games.
Blue Jackets 3, Hurricanes 2 (SO)
Cam Atkinson and Artemi Panarin scored in a shootout and Columbus defeated Carolina.
Blue Jackets goaltender Joonas Korpisalo stopped both Carolina shots in the shootout and finished with 29 saves. Josh Anderson scored his team-leading ninth goal of the season in the first period, and Zach Werenski had the lone goal in the second period that gave the Blue Jackets a 2-1 lead.
Hurricanes left winger Brock McGinn tied it at 2 at 10:09 of the third period with a high blast for his sixth goal of the season. Noah Hanifin scored a Carolina goal in the first period and Scott Darling finished with 36 saves.
Kings 4, Red Wings 1
Anze Kopitar scored twice, including the eventual game winner, and set up another as Los Angeles rallied for a victory over Detroit.
Dustin Brown and Adrian Kempe also scored for the Kings, who won successive games for the first time since a three-game winning streak in October. Jonathan Quick made 23 saves.
Mike Green scored for the Red Wings, who have lost five straight (0-2-3). Detroit also dropped to .500 (4-4-4) on home ice this season.
Predators 3, Blackhawks 2
In their first trip to Bridgestone Arena since getting swept by Nashville in last season’s Western Conference playoffs, Chicago was once again stymied by Pekka Rinne.
The Nashville goalie turned away 37 shots, including at least five point-blank chances, to lead his team to victory.
Austin Watson, Filip Forsberg and Roman Josi scored for the Predators and Tommy Wingels and Lance Bouma had the Blackhawks’ goals.
Oilers 3, Coyotes 2 (OT)
Matt Benning scored with 5:35 left in regulation to tie the game, and Ryan Nugent-Hopkins scored on a breakaway with 39.8 seconds left in overtime to lift Edmonton past Arizona.
Zack Kassian scored in the first period for Edmonton. Benning also had an assist.
Christian Fischer scored in the first period and Oliver Ekman-Larsson scored in the second for the Coyotes, and Max Domi had two assists.
Maple Leafs 4, Flames 1
Roman Polak, Nikita Zaitsev, Nazem Kadri and Leo Komarov scored as Toronto topped Calgary.
Maple Leafs goalie Frederik Andersen made 19 saves to improve his record to 14-7-1.
Michael Stone scored the lone goal of the game for the Flames, who will have a chance to avenge the loss when the same two teams meet in Toronto on Dec. 6. Netminder Mike Smith did his best to keep the Flames in the game by stopping 26 of 29 shots he faced.
Stars 3, Golden Knights 0
Radek Faksa scored his first career hat trick and Ben Bishop stopped 34 shots for his second shutout of the season as Dallas defeated Vegas.
The loss snapped a five-game win streak and also an eight-game home win streak for the Golden Knights, both of which had tied the NHL record for a team in its inaugural season.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Tuesday’s National Basketball Association games:
Cavaliers 108, Heat 97
Kevin Love scored a season-high 38 points, LeBron James was tossed from the game, and Dwyane Wade put a hurting on his old team in the Cleveland Cavaliers’ 108-97 win over the Miami Heat on Tuesday.
Love added nine rebounds and shot 14 of 17 from the foul line in 26 minutes. The Cavs, who led the game by as many as 34 points, have won nine straight for their longest regular-season winning streak since Jan. 15-Feb. 5, 2015.
James was ejected with 1:59 left in the third quarter for arguing a non-call with referee Kane Fitzgerald. James screamed at Fitzgerald for not calling a foul against Hassan Whiteside on James’ drive to the hoop. James, who was ejected for the first time in his career, finished with 21 points, 12 rebounds, six assists and five steals.
Wade, who like James once starred with the Heat, scored 17 points off the Cleveland bench. Dion Waiters led Miami with 21 points.
Wizards 92, Timberwolves 89
Otto Porter Jr. scored 22 points, including the go-ahead jump shot with 25 seconds remaining, to give Washington a come-from-behind win.
Porter scored 17 of his points in the second half as Washington erased a 13-point deficit and won for the second time in six games. Leading scorer Bradley Beal was held to eight points on 2-of-11 shooting, but the bench was pivotal with the Wizards missing John Wall for the second straight game due to an injured knee.
Karl-Anthony Towns had 20 points and 17 rebounds to post his league-leading 17th double-double for the Timberwolves. Making his second NBA start in place of injured Minnesota point guard Jeff Teague, Tyus Jones had season highs of 12 points and seven assists.
Suns 104, Bulls 99
Devin Booker scored 33 points and TJ Warren added 25 as Phoenix snapped a three-game losing streak.
Tyler Ulis finished with 14 points for the Suns, who built a 15-point lead in the fourth quarter and then had to hold on to beat the Bulls for the second time in nine days. Alex Len grabbed 18 rebounds for the Suns to go along with 13 points.
Justin Holiday led the Bulls with 25 points. Kris Dunn scored 24 points for Chicago, which dropped its sixth straight game.
Bucks 112, Kings 87
Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 19 of his game-high 32 points in the third quarter, and Milwaukee also got contributions from Khris Middleton and Eric Bledsoe in a win over Sacramento.
Bledsoe amassed 21 points and five assists, and Middleton had 12 points and four rebounds for the Bucks, who continued their recent domination of the Kings. Milwaukee has won three straight against Sacramento by an average of 21 points per game.
The Kings, coming off a season-best 55 percent shooting in a 110-106 road win over the Golden State Warriors on Monday, made only 5 of 20 shots in the second quarter and only 7 of 24 in the third while being outscored 60-33 over the middle two quarters. Garrett Temple led Sacramento with 18 points.
Jazz 106, Nuggets 77
Derrick Favors scored 24 points on 12-of-16 shooting and collected nine rebounds to lead Utah’s rout of Denver.
Donovan Mitchell scored 16 points and Jonas Jerebko added 15 for the Jazz. Utah won its third straight game after holding the Nuggets to just 28 second-half points, a season-low for a Jazz opponent. Utah guard Rodney Hood did not play because of ankle soreness.


(The Sports Xchange) - Los Angeles Clippers star forward Blake Griffin could be sidelined for two months while recovering from a sprained MCL in his left knee, according to an ESPN report Tuesday.
Griffin, 28, sustained the injury in the fourth quarter of Monday night’s game against the rival Los Angeles Lakers. Examinations revealed no structural damage in Griffin’s knee, per ESPN.
Griffin had 26 points, 11 rebounds and six assists over 36 minutes in the Clippers’ 120-115 victory against the Lakers before exiting with the injury.
The Golden State Warriors are hoping to have at least one star player back from injury when they open a six-game road trip against the Los Angeles Lakers at Staples Center on Wednesday.
Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant each sat out a 110-106 loss to the visiting Sacramento Kings on Monday. Curry has a bruised right hand and Durant has been dealing with a sprained left ankle.
Former NBA player Ben Gordon was arrested on a felony robbery charge in Los Angeles, the latest in a string of incidents over the past few months.
Gordon, 34, allegedly punched the manager of a downtown Los Angeles apartment complex on Saturday and pulled a knife. Gordon took money from the man that he said was his security deposit.
Gordon was arrested on Saturday and released Tuesday on $50,000 bail.
Memphis Grizzlies star Marc Gasol insists he had nothing to do with the firing of coach David Fizdale, which occurred one day after Gasol was furious that he was benched for the fourth quarter of the team’s eighth consecutive loss.
In fact, Gasol said he was surprised by the timing of the move and didn’t know about the firing until after the decision was made.
Memphis general manager Chris Wallace said the firing of the second-year coach was due to the team being underachievers and not related to the rift between Fizdale and Gasol.
Phoenix Suns center Alex Len admittedly is frustrated with his recent lack of playing time.


TOKYO (Reuters) - Sumo grand champion Harumafuji has informed the Japan Sumo Association of his intent to retire, an association spokesman said, following the Mongolian’s assault of a junior wrestler.
Harumafuji’s “oyakata” Isegahama, who runs the gym, or “stable” where Harumafuji trains, informed the association on the grand champion’s behalf, the spokesman said.


(The Sports Xchange) - New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning probably would have preferred to be answering questions about last week or better yet, the upcoming week’s game.
Instead, the veteran quarterback who has started 210 straight games for the Giants was standing before a crowd of reporters, at times fighting to hold back tears as he talked about the stunning decision by Giants coach Ben McAdoo to name Geno Smith the starting quarterback for this weekend’s game.
Manning, who has two years left on his contract, was asked about the future. Composing himself, he said. “I don’t know. I don’t know. One week at a time.”
Quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo will make his first start since joining San Francisco when the 49ers play the Chicago Bears on Sunday.
San Francisco coach Kyle Shanahan met with Garoppolo and C.J. Beathard on Tuesday to inform them of his decision.
Running back Darren McFadden announced his retirement after 10 NFL seasons.
McFadden was officially waived by the Dallas Cowboys on Monday, although news of the impending release occurred the day before. He played his first seven seasons with the Oakland Raiders before joining the Cowboys.
Arizona Cardinals coach Bruce Arians told reporters that he has plenty of confidence in quarterback Blaine Gabbert.
With injured Carson Palmer pondering retirement, Arians was if he’d be confident with Gabbert as his starter next season.
USC quarterback Sam Darnold dismissed a rumor that he would stay in school for his junior season should the Cleveland Browns secure the top overall pick in the 2018 NFL draft.
NFL Network’s Albert Breer told Cleveland radio station 92.3 The Fan earlier this month that Darnold is “going to take everything into account and that includes who’s at the top of the draft.”
Defensive back Dave Cloutier, who was the first native of Maine to play for the New England Patriots, died earlier this month at his home in Palm Coast, Fla., the team announced.


(The Sports Xchange) - Pittsburgh Penguins goaltender Matt Murray is considered week-to-week with a lower-body injury, the team announced Tuesday.
Because of Murray’s health, the Penguins recalled goaltender Casey DeSmith from Wilkes-Barre/Scranton of the American Hockey League.
Murray sustained the injury on Monday in Pittsburgh’s 5-4 overtime win over the Philadelphia Flyers. The 23-year-old exited the contest with 4:21 remaining in the second period after Flyers forward Jakub Voracek crashed into him during a breakaway.
Chicago Blackhawks right winger Patrick Kane and Minnesota Wild defenseman Matt Dumba were fined $5,000 apiece by the NHL for separate incidents.
Kane, 29, was fined for slashing Anaheim Ducks forward Nick Ritchie with 4:13 remaining in the third period of the Blackhawks’ 7-3 win on Monday in Chicago. The 2016 Hart Trophy recipient was assessed a minor penalty for slashing.
Florida Panthers forward Evgenii Dadonov is expected to be sidelined four to six weeks with a shoulder injury.


(Reuters) - FIFA president Gianni Infantino has said racism will not be tolerated at next year’s World Cup in Russia, adding that referees will have the power to stop or even abandon matches if discriminatory incidents take place.
Several players, including Brazil and former Zenit St Petersburg forward Hulk, have voiced concerns that racism could mar the tournament, saying such incidents are a regular feature of domestic league games in the country.
Infantino said in a video statement that anti-discrimination was a “high priority” for FIFA, and that the organization would deal with offences firmly.
“We’ll make sure that no incidents will happen and... we have for the first time in a World Cup the so-called, three-step procedure where a referee can stop a game or even abandon a game if there are discriminatory or racist incidences,” he added.
“We will be very, very firm on that so we can expect fair play in Russia.”
Infantino, who was elected FIFA president in February of last year, also said technology would play a big role at the tournament, although a final decision on using video assistant referees (VARs) would only be taken next year.
VAR, which involves officials watching the action remotely and drawing the match referee’s attention to officiating mistakes or missed serious incidents, is already in use in the top-flight leagues of Germany and Italy.
“I think it is absolutely normal that in 2018 we can explore and see how we can help the referee and the team to take the right decision,” Infantino said.
“So video assistant refereeing is a topic which will be decided in March of next year but the experience so far has been extremely positive to help the referee not to commit big mistakes which obviously as a human being he can do.”
Goal-line technology will be used during the World Cup, he added, having been used for the first time at the 2014 edition of the tournament in Brazil.
Russia is also caught up in a doping scandal, and Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Mutko on Tuesday downplayed the issue of doping among its soccer players, saying reports on them using performance-enhancing drugs were an attempt to discredit the country.
Infantino said robust testing procedures would ensure a fair tournament.
“Obviously all players in all teams will be tested in competition and out of competition by WADA-accredited laboratories and... and fair play will reign in this respect,” he said.


(Reuters) - Kevin Durant says Colin Kaepernick’s protests during the U.S. national anthem “touched a nerve” in society and sparked a national conversation about issues such as racial equality, the Golden State player told the San Jose Mercury News.
In an interview published on Monday, Durant said he admired the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback for taking the stance, despite the backlash it provoked.
“It definitely put me in a different place because we just started talking about stuff that’s always been going on,” Durant said.
”It was really out of nowhere ... He shocked everybody by doing that.
”You just see he touched something in people that we didn’t know was there,“ Durant said. ”I posted a picture of him on my Instagram, and the comments under that were ridiculous.
“So he kind of touched a nerve and the outrage from it made me a fan of him just because he decided to take all that on ...”
Kaepernick has been unemployed this season despite injuries at other teams that have created job openings. Some experts attribute his political activism as the key reason teams are wary of signing him.
He opted out of his contract with the 49ers in the offseason but has said his agent reached out to all 32 teams to make sure they were aware of his interest in playing this season.
The protests began in 2016 when Kaepernick began sitting and later kneeling during the anthem to call attention to the killing by police of unarmed black men and boys across the United States, as well as racial disparities in the criminal justice system.
Kaepernick inspired many NFL players to kneel in protest during renditions of the national anthem, most notably in September after U.S. President Donald Trump said kneeling players should be fired for disrespecting the country.
Durant, 29, who moved to the NBA champion Warriors last year after eight seasons with the Oklahoma City Thunder, said his focus on basketball had helped insulate him from trouble when he was growing up.
“I kind of grew up in this basketball world, whereas my talent kind of overrides what I look like,” said the 2014 NBA Most Valuable Player.
“I didn’t have it as rough when it comes to that, as far as social or systematic oppression or any social issues. They didn’t really apply to me because I could put a ball in a basket.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Monday’s National Basketball Association games:
Kings 110, Warriors 106
Bogdan Bogdanovic hit a driving banker over Draymond Green with 12.6 seconds remaining Monday night to break a tie and lift the Sacramento Kings to a 110-106 victory over the Golden State Warriors.
Golden State, which was playing without Stephen Curry (bruised right hand) and Kevin Durant (sprained left ankle), led 106-102 before the Kings scored the game’s last eight points over the final 3:08.
Sacramento earned its first win in its past nine visits to Oracle Arena and snapped a nine-game road losing streak dating back to the first week of the season.
Willie Cauley-Stein had 19 points and eight rebounds to lead the Kings. Klay Thompson paced the Warriors with 21 points.
Pistons 118, Celtics 108
Detroit ended Boston’s eight-game home winning streak in a battle of the teams with the two top records in the Eastern Conference.
Tobias Harris scored 31 points and Andre Drummond posted 26 points, a season-high 22 rebounds and six assists as the Pistons went on a late 13-3 run to put the game away.
Detroit guard Reggie Jackson, who played his college ball at Boston College, had 20 points and seven assists in the win. Marcus Smart led the Celtics with 23 points.
Cavaliers 113, 76ers 91
LeBron James collected 30 points, 13 rebounds and six assists as Cleveland beat Philadelphia to win its eighth straight.
Dwyane Wade added 15 points off the bench for the Cavs, who owned a 57-30 advantage in bench points and limited the Sixers to 37.5 percent shooting, including 3-for-28 3-point accuracy. Cleveland shot 48.2 percent, including 40.5 percent (15 of 37) from beyond the arc.
Joel Embiid led Philadelphia, which saw a three-game winning streak end, with 30 points and 11 rebounds. Rookie sensation Ben Simmons was limited to 10 points and eight rebounds before leaving the game in the fourth quarter with a sprained right ankle.
Rockets 117, Nets 103
James Harden produced another breathlessly efficient scoring performance and Houston rode his hot hand to a victory over Brooklyn.
The Rockets extended their winning streak to five games behind Harden, who scored 37 points on 13-for-20 shooting while adding 10 rebounds and eight assists. He poured in 20 points without a miss in the first quarter as Houston took a 21-point lead it did not relinquish.
Clint Capela added 20 points for the Rockets, Ryan Anderson scored 13 and Eric Gordon 12. Chris Paul shot just 1 for 7 but had 14 assists without a turnover, six boards and two steals.
Pacers 121, Magic 109
Victor Oladipo scored 26 points and Bojan Bogdanovic added 22 as Indiana sent Orlando to its ninth consecutive loss.
Oladipo hit 11 of 14 shots, including 4 of 6 from 3-point range, and Domantas Sabonis chipped in with 19 points and eight rebounds for the Pacers. Indiana’s Myles Turner scored 18 points, and Lance Stephenson matched his season high with 18 off the bench.
The Pacers sank 15 of 26 from three-point range while the Magic were 16 of 41 on three-pointers. Jonathon Simmons scored 21 points to lead six players in doubles figures for Orlando. Aaron Gordon and Nikola Vucevic each had 16 points. Vucevic added a team-high 12 rebounds.
Trail Blazers 103, Knicks 91
Damian Lillard had 32 points and Pat Connaughton added 17 as Portland defeated New York.
Kristaps Porzingis returned from a one-game absence and scored 22 points to lead the Knicks, who lost their third consecutive game. Tim Hardaway Jr. added 18 points for New York but shot just 6 of 18 from the field.
New York staged a furious rally in the fourth quarter, cutting Portland’s lead from 26 at the start of the quarter to eight with under a minute left. The Blazers scored just six points in the first 10 minutes of the fourth quarter, but New York went cold and was unable to come any closer.
Spurs 115, Mavericks 108
LaMarcus Aldridge scored a season-high 33 points and grabbed 10 rebounds for his eighth double-double of the year as San Antonio defeated Dallas.
Pau Gasol added a season-high 25 points for the Spurs. San Antonio point guard Tony Parker, who missed the first 19 games of the season because of a quad injury he sustained in the playoffs last season, returned to produce six points and four assists in 15 minutes.
Wesley Matthews and Dennis Smith Jr. led the Mavericks with 19 points apiece. J.J. Barea added 16 points, and Devin Harris and Harrison Barnes contributed 13 each for Dallas.
Clippers 120, Lakers 115
Lou Williams scored a season-high 42 points and Blake Griffin added 26 as the Los Angeles Clippers held off the Los Angeles Lakers.
It was the 11th consecutive “home” victory for the Clippers over the Lakers, while the Clippers have also won 20 of the last 22 games in the matchup. Both teams call the Staples Center home.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Ravens executed a fake punt that led to a Javorius “Buck” Allen touchdown, and Alex Collins ran for another score in Baltimore’s 23-16 victory over the Houston Texans on Monday night.
Ravens linebacker Terrell Suggs also came up with huge play, a strip-sack of Texans quarterback Tom Savage late in the fourth quarter. The fumble was recovered by Baltimore defensive tackle Willie Henry.
The Ravens (6-5) have consecutive wins for the first time since the opening two weeks of the season, and they retook the sixth and final AFC playoff spot.
Baltimore overcame a huge performance by Texans receiver DeAndre Hopkins, who caught seven passes for 125 yards.
Baltimore is 12-1 in night games at home since coach John Harbaugh took over the team in 2008. The Ravens have also won 10 consecutive prime-time matchups at M&T Bank Stadium, the longest streak in the NFL.
Houston (4-7) pulled to within 20-16 on a 37-yard field goal by Ka‘imi Fairbairn with 8:36 remaining in the game. The Texans were driving again on their next possession, but Suggs’ strip-sack led to a 49-yard field goal by Justin Tucker that gave Baltimore the 23-16 margin.
Ravens safety Anthony Levine sealed the win with the first interception of his career with just over two minutes left.
Baltimore’s Joe Flacco completed 20 of 32 passes for 141 yards and had a key 25-yard run on the game’s final possession.
The Ravens had three takeaways, giving them an NFL-leading 26.
Savage, filling for the injured Deshaun Watson, was 22 of 37 for 252 yards with two interceptions.
The Ravens’ defense had three penalties for 39 yards on the Texans’ opening drive. That helped set up a four-yard touchdown run by Lamar Miller.
Baltimore got a spark when Sam Koch threw a 22-yard pass to Chris Moore on a fake punt early in the second quarter. Two plays later, Allen tied the game on a 10-yard run.
An interception by safety Tony Jefferson and a 29-yard run by Collins on a fourth-and-1 set up the Ravens’ next score. Collins capped the drive with an 8-yard run, and Baltimore had its first lead, 14-7, with 6:44 left in the half.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Memphis Grizzlies fired coach David Fizdale on Monday and named J.B. Bickerstaff as the interim head coach.
Memphis is mired in an eight-game losing streak and owns a 7-12 mark this season after advancing to the playoffs in 2016-17.
“After a thorough evaluation, I decided a change in course was necessary to move forward and provide the team and organization its best chance at success this season and beyond,” Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said.
“Coach Fizdale represented the Grizzlies and City of Memphis proudly, and we wish him well as he continues his career.”
Fizdale has recorded a 50-51 mark since being named the 13th head coach in franchise history on May 29, 2016.
“Coach Fizdale worked tirelessly to achieve on-court success, and for that, we are grateful. We wish him and his family all the best in the future,” Grizzlies controlling owner Robert J. Pera said. “We remain focused on achieving sustainable, long-term success.”
Bickerstaff, who served as Memphis’ associate head coach, posted a 37-34 mark as an interim coach with the Houston Rockets in 2015-16.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Monday’s National Hockey League games:
Panthers 3, Devils 2
Roberto Luongo etched his name in the record books Monday night as the Florida Panthers defeated the New Jersey Devils 3-2.
Luongo earned his 200th victory as a member of the Panthers, making him just the second goaltender in NHL history to win 200 games for two different teams, joining Hockey Hall of Famer Patrick Roy. Luongo also won 252 games with the Vancouver Canucks, while Roy earned 289 victories with the Montreal Canadiens and 262 with the Colorado Avalanche.
Luongo, 38, made 23 saves in his milestone victory. His counterpart, Cory Schneider of the Devils, stopped the first 29 shots he faced and finished with 35 saves in the loss.
The Panthers scored the decisive goal at 12:45 of the third period. Jared McCann collected the rebound of his own blocked shot and flipped his fourth goal past Schneider to give Florida a 3-2 lead.
Canadiens 3, Blue Jackets 1
Montreal ended Columbus’ six-game winning streak as Carey Price made 37 saves in his second game back from injury.
Brendan Gallagher, Jonathan Drouin and Andrew Shaw scored as the Canadiens won consecutive games. Price had a 36-save shutout Saturday in a 3-0 win against the Buffalo Sabres after missing 10 games with a lower-body injury.
Sergei Bobrovsky, who had won the six previous games, made 25 saves for Columbus. Rookie center Pierre-Luc Dubois scored for the Blue Jackets.
Penguins 5, Flyers 4 (OT)
Sidney Crosby scored at 1:48 of overtime to give Pittsburgh a win over reeling Philadelphia, but the Penguins lost No. 1 goaltender Matt Murray to an apparent leg injury in the second period.
There was no immediate word on Murray’s status. Philadelphia has lost eight in a row (0-3-5), its longest losing streak since it lost 10 straight in February 2008.
On the winner, Crosby chipped in a shot by Kris Letang. Pittsburgh won its second in a row. The Penguins tied it 3-3 with goals in the first two minutes of the third period on goals by Patric Hornqvist and Bryan Rust. After Michael Raffl scored for the Flyers, Jake Guentzel forced overtime with his second goal when he tied it at 4-4 with 1:04 left in regulation.
Jets 7, Wild 2
Winnipeg shook off any hangover it had from being shut out for the first time this season, routing goalie Alex Stalock and Minnesota.
The Jets scored seven consecutive goals, with Bryan Little, Joel Armia, Kyle Connor, Mark Scheifele, Mathieu Perreault, Blake Wheeler and Jacob Trouba connecting after Jason Zucker and Chris Stewart staked the visitors to a 2-0 lead.
Connor Hellebuyck stopped 17 shots for his 13th win of the season while Stalock blocked 21 shots in the loss. The Jets lost 4-0 to San Jose on Saturday to finish off a four-game road trip.
Blackhawks 7, Ducks 3
Rookie right winger Alex DeBrincat scored his first career hat trick and notched an assist as part of a four-point performance, and Chicago pulled away from Anaheim.
Patrick Sharp, Brandon Saad, Artem Anisimov and Nick Schmaltz also scored as the Blackhawks tallied their second-most goals of the season. Chicago extended its point streak to five games.


(The Sports Xchange) - Colorado Avalanche captain Gabriel Landeskog has been suspended four games by the NHL for cross-checking Calgary Flames forward Matthew Tkachuk, the league announced Monday.
Landeskog lowered the boom on Tkachuk with 4:42 remaining in the first period of Saturday’s 3-2 loss to the Flames. The 25-year-old Swedish forward was assessed a minor penalty on the play.
The suspension is the second in the career of Landeskog, who received a three-game ban in March 2016 for a cross-check on then-Anaheim Ducks defenseman Simon Depres.
Landeskog has collected nine goals and eight assists in 22 games this season for the Avalanche (11-9-2), who have dropped two in a row and six of their last nine (3-4-2).
The Winnipeg Jets recalled goaltender Eric Comrie from the Manitoba Moose of the American Hockey League.
The Edmonton, Alberta, native made his NHL debut on April 6 at Columbus and had 35 saves to earn the win.
The Jets also reassigned goaltender Jamie Phillips to Manitoba from the East Coast Hockey League’s Jacksonville Icemen.
The Minnesota Wild recalled former first-round defenseman Ryan Murphy from Iowa of the American Hockey League, the team announced.
Murphy was signed as a free agent by Minnesota on July 1.
The 24-year-old Ontario native notched a pair of assists in 27 contests last season with the Carolina Hurricanes.
The Florida Panthers recalled forward Denis Malgin from the Springfield Thunderbirds of the American Hockey League.
Malgin, 20, has played in 52 career NHL games, all with Florida, recording six goals and four assists. He has skated in five games this season for the Panthers, averaging 9:33 time on ice with no points.
Malgin, a native of Olten, Switzerland, was originally selected by Florida in the fourth round of the 2015 NHL draft.
The Boston Bruins assigned forward Jordan Szwarz to Providence of the American Hockey League.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Denver Broncos’ quarterback carousel once again will turn to Trevor Siemian after coach Vance Joseph announced Monday that Paxton Lynch will be sidelined two to four weeks with a high ankle injury.
Lynch sustained the non-contact injury during the third quarter of Sunday’s 21-14 loss to the Raiders on Sunday at the Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum. The 2016 first-round pick completed 9 of 14 passes for 41 yards with one interception while making his first start of the season and third career.
The New England Patriots placed tight end Martellus Bennett on injured reserve.
The move comes one day after Bennett was inactive in the Patriots’ 35-17 win over the Miami Dolphins due to shoulder and hamstring injuries. New England also put defensive back Nate Ebner on injured reserve.
Buffalo Bills wide receiver Kelvin Benjamin has a torn meniscus in his right knee, the team announced.
Benjamin, who was acquired from the Carolina Panthers on Oct. 31, sustained the injury during Buffalo’s 54-24 loss to the Los Angeles Chargers on Nov. 19.
Detroit Lions safety Tavon Wilson was placed on injured reserve with an ailing shoulder, the team announced.
Wilson aggravated the injury during Detroit’s 30-23 loss to the Minnesota Vikings on Thanksgiving Day.
Carolina Panthers tight end Greg Olsen, who made his long-awaited return to the lineup on Sunday after an eight-week absence due to a broken foot, received positive news after seeing a specialist.
Olsen was examined orthopedic specialist Dr. Robert Anderson and his foot was judged to be “OK,” the Charlotte Observer reported, citing a source.
Denver Broncos cornerback Aqib Talib opened up about his role in a fight with Oakland Raiders wide receiver Michael Crabtree that saw both players ejected from Sunday’s game at Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Five more Russian competitors from the 2014 Sochi Olympics were banned for life over anti-doping rule violations on Monday with the International Olympic Committee saying Russia’s former anti-doping chief-turned-whistleblower was telling the truth.
The banned athletes include Dmitrii Trunenkov and Aleksei Negodailo, both in the gold-medal winning four-man bobsleigh team, plus biathlon relay silver medalists Yana Romanova and Olga Vilukhina, who also won silver in the 7.5 km event.
The latest bans bring the total number of Russian athletes suspended from the Games for life to 19 this month, with the IOC annulling results following widespread doping and tampering with samples of Russian athletes during the Sochi Games.
The IOC also published its reasoning behind the lifetime ban of the first Russian to be sanctioned as part of its investigation, cross country gold medalist Alexander Legkov.
The IOC said it was proven that Legkov was part of a scheme to tamper with the samples of Russians at Sochi.
The Olympic body is re-testing all Russian athletes’ samples from those Games following revelations by Grigory Rodchenkov, the former head of Moscow’s discredited anti-doping laboratory, of a scheme to cover up home competitors’ positive samples.
The IOC launched two investigations following Rodchenkov’s claims with one focusing on the Sochi Games re-tests and the other looking at allegations of systematic state-backed doping.
The IOC on Monday said that in Legkov’s case, evidence provided by Rodchenkov, now living in the United States, was used and deemed credible.
“The (IOC) Disciplinary Commission has come to the conclusion that, whatever his motivation may be and whichever wrongdoing he may have committed in the past, Dr Rodchenkov was telling the truth when he provided explanations of the cover-up scheme that he managed,” it said in its decision.
“The Disciplinary Commission would have preferred... to be able to hear Dr Rodchenkov in person. However, this does not alter its conviction that Dr Rodchenkov is a truthful witness and that his statements reflect the reality and can be used as valid evidence.”
The Sochi scandal, triggered by revelations made by Rodchenkov, is part of a broader doping affair that has led to the suspension of Russia’s anti-doping agency RUSADA, its athletics federation and Paralympic Committee.
The IOC has said it will decide during its executive board meeting next month on the participation of Russian competitors at the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in South Korea in February.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Russia have been knocked off the medals top spot for the 2014 Sochi winter Olympics after five more athletes received lifetime Games bans on Monday over doping violations at those Olympics, but the final medal count could be months or even years away.
This month a total of 19 Russians have been banned from the Games for life as a result of an International Olympic Committee (IOC) investigation into allegations of widespread doping among Russian competitors and sample tampering by laboratory and security officials at the Sochi Games.
Gold medal-winning bobsledders Dmitrii Trunenkov and Aleksei Negodailo, members of the winning four-man team, as well as biathlon relay silver medalists Yana Romanova and Olga Vilukhina, who also won silver in the 7.5 km event, were the latest to be sanctioned by the IOC on Monday.
Russia, a winter sports powerhouse, were top of the medals table at the end of the Games on home soil in 2014 but the latest IOC decision now brings their number of gold medals at events down to eight.
Those already banned include double gold medalist bobsledder Alexander Zubkov, Olympic skeleton champion Alexander Tretyakov as well as six cross-country skiers.
While the IOC has ordered the return of the medals, Russian sports officials have pledged to appeal the bans and take their case to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS).
It is unlikely that Russians will get any medals back with the IOC saying on Monday that the doping samples had been clearly tampered with, in its published reasoning on the first athlete to have been banned in this process.
But they can be hopeful of potentially overturning the lifetime Olympic bans, with CAS having thrown out previous attempts to ban past drugs cheats from future Olympics.
The IOC and the British Olympic Association had tried to pass such Olympic bans ahead of the 2012 London Games but both efforts were thwarted by CAS.
It will no doubt further delay the process and can ultimately lead to medals being reallocated years later as is often the case.
The IOC told Reuters that with each case being different and involving several international sports federations as well as appeals, giving a specific date by when all Sochi Games medals will have been decided was not possible at this stage.
Australian race walker Jared Tallent received his London 2012 Olympics 50-km gold medal in 2016 after Russian winner Sergey Kirdyapkin was stripped of his medal for doping.
But it could also be the case that the IOC decides not to reallocate some medals, as they did with disgraced U.S. sprinter Mario Jones’s 100m gold medal from the 2000 Sydney Olympics.
In 2007 the IOC stripped all five of Jones’ Sydney Games track and field medals but refused to reallocate her 100m sprint gold to silver medalist Katerina Thanou of Greece, who was herself disqualified for doping offences at the 2004 Games.


ABU DHABI (Reuters) - The Formula One season ended at the weekend with even some drivers stifling a yawn but the sport’s new owners remained upbeat about their investment and future prospects.
“I feel good about where we’re at,” chairman Chase Carey told reporters at the Abu Dhabi circuit ahead of Sunday’s dull finale.
“I think we’ve made headway this year. It’s early days so we’re not declaring victory. But I feel good about the momentum we’ve got.”
There may be storm clouds brewing and battles to be fought but the flamboyantly mustachioed boss, who replaced former supremo Bernie Ecclestone in January when Liberty Media completed their takeover, sounded optimistic.
A new logo presented on Sunday heralds an extensive re-branding of the global series, with a big push into digital platforms, and there is plenty more to come even if details remain scarce.
Work on the more complex issues, such as implementing a cost-cap, rebalancing revenues distributed to teams and a rules blueprint for the future, is just getting started.
“The initiatives that we have underway -- whether it’s cost, revenues, engines -- the reality is that there is broad-based support for the broad direction of where we’re going,” said Carey.
”As you get into the specifics there are always going to be differences, that’s just the reality of life. What we need to do is find the right compromises.
”Nobody gets everything they want but everybody’s better off than they were before.
“So I think our goal would be to try and find those compromises and I think we honestly believe we’re going to get a compromise.”
The American and his team -- including ex-Mercedes team boss Ross Brawn and former ESPN executive Sean Bratches -- have plenty to keep them busy.
Making the racing more exciting and competitive is a priority, with the season fizzling out in the later stages after Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel and eventual champion Lewis Hamilton had looked like battling down to the wire earlier in the year.
Sunday’s race under the Abu Dhabi floodlights was so processional that Red Bull’s Max Verstappen, one of the most exciting drivers on the grid, did not attempt to hide his boredom.
“If I had a pillow in the car I could have fallen asleep,” declared the 20-year-old.
Creating a more level playing field and fairer revenue distribution to teams after current commercial agreements expire in 2020 is high on the list but Liberty can expect stiff resistance with several competing interests at play.
Ferrari, the sport’s oldest and most successful team, have already warned they could quit if they do not like what the future holds.
“You’ve got a long list of parties so this is a game of three-dimensional chess in finding the right balance,” said Carey.
“What you try to find is compromises that really are at the end of the day in the best interests of the sport and ultimately the fans.”
Liberty has ramped up investment in the sport, spending on infrastructure and putting a marketing, research and digital operation in place.
That has led to a drop in earnings which has hit revenue payouts to the 10 teams with payments, at $273 million in the third quarter, 14 percent lower than the same period last year.
That has raised concerns but Carey said it was all part of growing a business. “Realistically, to grow things, usually there’s no free lunches,” he said.


DOHA (Reuters) - Qatar is urging the four countries imposing a diplomatic and trade boycott against it to allow their nationals to attend the World Cup in Doha in 2022, a senior Qatari organizer said on Monday.
“We separate politics from sports,” Hassan Al Thawadi, secretary general at Qatar’s Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy, told reporters in Doha.
The committee is responsible for planning and operations for the tournament.
“We hope that the blockading nations see reason in this matter and allow for their people to be able to participate in this once in a lifetime opportunity.”
Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Egypt cut diplomatic, transport and trade ties with Qatar in June, accusing it of financing terrorism. Doha denies the charges.
Doha has had to find new suppliers of construction materials for its World Cup projects since the boycott was imposed, but the timeline for those projects has not changed, said Thawadi.
“Our plans are put in place, alternative supply chains are put in place and the projects are continuing on schedule and on cost,” he said.


(Reuters) - The International Boxing Association’s (AIBA) suspended president Wu Ching-kuo announced on Monday that he would step down from his post to “resolve the management issues” within the Olympic sport’s governing body.
Wu, who will be replaced by interim chief Franco Falcinelli, said in a joint statement with the Swiss-based organization that he would withdraw and terminate related pending procedures before civil courts and the AIBA disciplinary commission.
“I step down in the best interests of both AIBA and boxing but I remain committed to ensure a smooth handover to the new leadership,” the 70-year-old Wu, who has been at the helm for 11 years, said.
The AIBA would convene an extraordinary congress with its national member federations on Jan. 27 in Dubai to consider proposed changes to its governance, the statement added.
Wu was provisionally suspended by a disciplinary commission last month after a complaint from 11 AIBA executive committee members who alleged he had “violated and continues to violate various provisions of AIBA’s Statutes and Codes”.
AIBA has been riven with in-fighting for months, with Taiwan’s Wu pitted against most of the executive committee who failed to remove him through a vote of no confidence in July.


(Reuters) - Mo Farah will start his career as a full-time road runner by taking part in a London half marathon early next year before tackling the full distance around the British capital in April, according to The Times.
The 34-year-old Briton, a quadruple Olympic and six-time world champion, competed in his final track race in August and announced he plans to compete in his third London Marathon on April 22.
The half marathon, named The Big Half, will be held on March 4 and is expected to be Farah’s first event since replacing his  controversial coach Alberto Salazar with Gary Lough.
Farah holds the British record for a number of distances, including the half marathon, and will be aiming to lower Steve Jones’ current British marathon mark of two hours, seven minutes and 13 seconds.


SEOUL (Reuters) - A year after her dazzling gold medal-winning performance at the Vancouver Games, figure skater Kim Yuna delivered an impassioned speech to the International Olympic Committee that helped sway the vote to bring the 2018 Winter Games to South Korea.
Dubbed the “Face of Pyeongchang” after crisscrossing the globe to garner support for the bid, Kim’s charm offensive was equally effective in Korea as she helped sell the vision of a home Olympics on snow and ice despite the country having little prior interest in winter sports.
Even after her retirement from competition in 2014, the nation’s favorite athlete has played a key role in preparations for Pyeongchang -- from carrying the Olympic flame off a flight from Greece to fronting global advertising campaigns as an honorary ambassador for the Games.
But while there is no escaping Kim’s shadow ahead of the Games, she will be missing from the one place her fans long to see her most -- on the Pyeongchang ice, skating for Olympic gold and South Korean glory.
Kim’s retirement has left the host nation without a true winter sports “hero” to get behind and some see that as a major factor behind sluggish ticket sales.
“Is it any wonder Koreans have lost interest in the Games now that their star athlete is gone?” asked Lee Dae-taek, director of the Center for Sport Culture.
“Kim Yuna and the short track team were responsible for boosting interest in the Winter Olympics here,” he told Reuters, adding that with so few successful local athletes competing in Pyeongchang, ticket sales were bound to lag.
Less than three months before the world’s top winter sports athletes arrive in Pyeongchang, figures from organizers show that of 750,000 tickets earmarked for domestic sale, only 177,000 (23.6 percent) had been snapped up.
“Who wants to go see the Games when South Koreans are losing all the time?” Lee added.
Roger Park, a professor at Hanyang University’s Sports Industry Department, said that without Kim Yuna, South Korea did not have a high-profile sporting “hero” to carry the Games.
“The only way to spark interest is through storytelling --  the tale of an athlete going in search of further Olympic success, or the hard-luck story of another looking for redemption,” Park added.
“But right now we just don’t have any such athletes. And I don’t see enough efforts from the government or Olympic committee in promoting Winter Olympians.”
For many South Koreans, interest in winter sports started and finished with their figure skating queen.
“I don’t really know anyone other than Kim Yuna,” said 19-year-old Jung So-yeon when asked who she would be cheering for during the 2018 Games.
Lee Chae-won, 14, told Reuters she hoped the Games would make more South Korean athletes household names.
“I can’t think of any (winter sports) athletes other than Kim Yuna,” she said. “I hope the coming Olympics will be an opportunity for us to get to know more of them.”
Former Prime Minister Han Seung-soo downplayed Kim Yuna’s absence and said it was political upheaval that had served to dampen enthusiasm for sport.
“Interest in the Pyeongchang Olympics has been declining mainly due to the political chaos which prompted candlelight vigil across the country, ultimately ousting former President Park Geun-hye,” Han, who led Pyeongchang’s unsuccessful bid for the 2014 Games, told Reuters.
But while South Korea was indeed caught up in the maelstrom of a president’s impeachment, Park was removed from office eight months ago and new President Moon Jae-in has since restored a sense of calm to domestic politics.
Some observers have also highlighted the impact of security concerns on ticket sales, though worries about North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs are more likely to drag on international purchases rather than domestic sales.
With the clocking ticking down to the Games, there seems little time to craft a new narrative of Korean athletes going for gold at the 2018 Olympics.
The short track team should add to their record 21 golds while the patchwork ice hockey squad woven together by former Stanley Cup winner Jim Paek has the potential to deliver the kind of ‘David v Goliath’ storyline the country can respond to.
However, the stage could also be set for an ‘anti-hero’ to ruin the mood with Russian short track skater Viktor Ahn ready to return to his native South Korea seeking to end is incredible career on a high.
Ahn won his first three Olympic golds for Korea in Turin but after losing his place in the team due to injury and falling out with the Korea Skating Union, switched allegiance to Russia and won three more in 2014.
His Sochi success sparked an outcry in South Korea as the country demanded to know why Ahn had felt forced to defect.
While Russia’s participation remains in the hands of the IOC due to continuing concerns about its anti-doping program, Hanyang professor Park said a repeat performance by Ahn in February could spoil the Pyeongchang party.
“As host nation, South Korea wants to win as many medals as possible,” added Park. “So (if Ahn wins) it would give rise to a sense of bitterness.”


(Reuters) - World number two Jordan Spieth will be well rewarded for his trip Down Under this week regardless of whether he successfully defends his title at the Australian Open, a tournament he has developed a love affair with over the last four years.
The American’s appearance fee for playing for the Stonehaven Cup at The Australian course in Sydney from Thursday will be in the vicinity of $1 million, according to several golf insiders contacted by Reuters.
But it is all money well spent, according to Golf Australia chief executive Stephen Pitt.
Pitt says the British Open champion’s appearance, along with that of home favorite Jason Day, has made the tournament much easier to market and helped sell out the corporate hospitality boxes.
“From my perspective, Jordan is the biggest man in world golf,” Pitt said in a telephone interview, citing Spieth’s three major titles by the age of 24.
”He’s an all around package on the course and beyond that he’s likeable.
”We’ve basically sold out of corporate hospitality and Jordan’s announcement really helped that. And pre-sales of tickets are much more advanced of last year.”
Australia definitely holds some appeal for Spieth.
While the likes of Dustin Johnson, the only player currently above him the world rankings, Tiger Woods, Bubba Watson and McIlroy have played for the Stonehaven Cup once or twice, the Texan will be making his fourth successive appearance this week.
Not everyone is convinced that paying players simply to turn up is a good idea.
With Day receiving a similar amount and several other players smaller fees, the appearance money budget will dwarf the tournament’s total prize purse of A$1.25 million ($945,625).
Australia’s Peter Thomson, a five-times British Open champion, is one of those who have criticized such payments but Pitt contends that appearance fees are the only way to get the best players to come Down Under.
Spieth received $500,000 for playing a tournament in Japan the week before his Australian Open debut in 2014, a source familiar with the matter told Reuters, and his stock has only risen since.
“We operate in a market where appearance fees are required to attract the best players in the world, particularly international players, and we are in the same boat as a large number of tournaments around the world,” Pitt said.
“For the world’s top players, there are now so many playing opportunities and the schedule is crowded, so many tournaments have had to adapt to stay competitive.”
Spieth was only 21 when he blew away a field that included defending champion Rory McIlroy by six strokes in 2014. He returned in 2015, where he tied for second a stroke off the pace, before adding another victory after a playoff last year.
“When he played that first Open, Rory was the front runner and Jordan probably came in a little under the radar,” Pitt said. “We’ve seen him grow from young guy on tour to an established superstar.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Sunday’s National Hockey League games:
Hurricanes 4, Islanders 2
Teuvo Teravainen continued his offensive surge by scoring two goals as the Carolina Hurricanes defeated the New York Islanders 4-2 on Sunday.
Teravainen, who also posted an assist, has five goals in the last two home games combined. Overall, he has 10 points in four games, and linemate Sebastian Aho has nine points in the same span.
Aho had a goal and two assists on Sunday, and Elias Lindholm also scored for the Hurricanes. Aho has scored in four consecutive games. Justin Faulk also posted two assists for the Hurricanes.
Nick Leddy notched a goal and an assist, and John Tavares also scored for New York, which had its three-game winning streak end.
Avalanche 4, Red Wings 3 (overtime)
Nathan MacKinnon scored 2:55 into overtime, lifting Colorado to a come-from-behind win over Detroit.
MacKinnon joined Erik Johnson with a goal and an assist, and Nail Yakupov and Carl Soderberg also scored for Colorado, which trailed 3-1 in third period. Tyson Barrie had two assists, and Jonathan Bernier stopped 21 shots.
Justin Abdelkader, Andreas Athanasiou and Niklas Kronwall scored for Detroit. Red Wings goalie Jimmy Howard made 33 saves.
Rangers 3, Senators 0
Henrik Lundqvist turned aside 20 shots as New York ended a two-game slide by defeating Ottawa.
Kevin Hayes, Michael Grabner and Mika Zibanejad had the goals for the Rangers, who had to kill off a five-minute penalty midway through the third period to preserve the win.
Craig Anderson stopped 24 shots for the Senators, who dropped their third game in a row.
Ducks 3, Panthers 2
Brandon Montour scored the decisive goal and John Gibson posted 50 saves as Anaheim defeated Florida.
The Ducks scored two power-play goals to record their second consecutive victory. They had lost their prior three meetings with the Panthers, including an 8-3 drubbing in Florida last month. Josh Manson and Rickard Rakell added goals for Anaheim.
The Panthers dropped their second game in a row despite outshooting their opponents in both games. Vincent Trocheck and Keith Yandle each had a goal and an assist for the Panthers, who scored one power play goal on six chances. Aleksander Barkov assisted on both Florida goals.
Golden Knights 4, Kings 2
William Karlsson scored two first-period goals, and Maxime Lagace made 27 saves to lead Vegas past Los Angeles.
Cody Eakin had a goal and an assist, Alex Tuch added an empty-net goal and Reilly Smith notched two assists for the Golden Knights, who improved to 8-1-0 at home.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Sunday’s National Football League games:
Saints 34 Redskins 31 (overtime)
Wil Lutz kicked a 28-yard field in overtime, climaxing a furious fourth-quarter rally that lifted New Orleans to its eighth consecutive victory.
The Saints (8-2) trailed Washington 31-16 when Kirk Cousins completed a seven-yard touchdown pass to tight end Jeremy Sprinkle with 5:58 to play.
But Drew Brees led back-to-back touchdown drives of 75 and 83 yards, throwing three yards to tight end Josh Hill and 18 yards to rookie running back Alvin Kamara to draw the Saints within 31-29 with 1:05 left.
Kamara converted the tying two-point conversion by taking a pitch around left end.
The Redskins (4-6) moved to a first down at the New Orleans 34 -- within range of a potential game-winning field goal -- but Cousins was flagged for intentional grounding on first down, moving Washington out of field-goal range.
Eagles 37, Cowboys 9
The Philadelphia offense clicked in the second half, and the Eagles motored past the Dallas Cowboys 37-9 for their eighth consecutive win.
Carson Wentz threw a pair of touchdowns passes as Philadelphia scored on its first three possessions of the second half. He finished with 168 yards on 14-of-27 passing.
The Eagles (9-1) held Dallas (5-5) to 225 yards of offense. Philadelphia’s defense also came up with the exclamation point on the win when defensive end Derek Barnett sacked Dallas quarterback Dak Prescott and forced a fumble. Eagles linebacker Nigel Bradham scooped the ball and returned it 37 yards for a touchdown.
Patriots 33, Raiders 8
Tom Brady threw for 339 yards and three touchdowns and Stephen Gostkowski kicked four field goals, including a franchise-record 62-yarder, in New England’s blowout of Oakland in Mexico City.
Brady, 30 of 37 passing, notched his sixth 300-yard game this season and 82nd of his career.
Coach Bill Belichick broke a tie with Tom Landry and moved into sole possession of third place on the NFL’s all-time coaching wins list.
The Patriots have won a team-record 13 straight road games, 12 of them led by Brady, the second-longest quarterback streak in NFL history.
Ravens 23, Packers 0
Baltimore’s defense bent, but never got close to breaking in shutting out Green Bay.
It was the first time the Packers were held scoreless since 2006, when they were blanked by the Bears and Patriots in head coach Mike McCarthy’s first season.
The Ravens (5-5) forced three consecutive turnovers at the start of the game and got a pair of fourth-down stops and two more turnovers in the second half.
Packers quarterback Brett Hundley, starting his fourth game in place of Aaron Rodgers, was intercepted three times and fumbled once as Green Bay fell to 5-5.
Vikings 24, Rams 7
Latavius Murray ran for 95 yards and two touchdowns and Minnesota’s defense held down Los Angeles’ top-scoring offense.
Case Keenum was 27-of-38 passing for 280 yards and a touchdown, and Adam Thielen added six catches for 123 yards and a 65-yard touchdown reception for Minnesota (8-2).
Running back Todd Gurley had five carries for 20 yards and a touchdown for Los Angeles (7-3) on the first possession of the game, but was held to 17 yards on 10 carries the rest of the way.
Giants 12, Chiefs 9 (OT)
Aldrick Rosas delivered the game-winning 23-yard field goal to give New York the overtime victory over Kansas City (6-4).
The Giants (2-8) snapped a three-game losing streak in their first home win of the season.
New York’s winning drive was set up by a 36-yard reception by receiver Roger Lewis, who drew a pass interference penalty on Chiefs cornerback Phillip Gaines.
Bengals 20, Broncos 17
Andy Dalton passed for three touchdowns and Cincinnati (4-6) won in Denver for the first time in 42 years.
Dalton completed 15 of 25 passes for 154 yards, including scoring passes to A.J. Green, Alex Erickson and Tyler Kroft.
Denver (3-7) lost its sixth consecutive game.
Chargers 54, Bills 24
Los Angeles quarterback Philip Rivers threw two touchdown passes to Keenan Allen and Buffalo rookie Nathan Peterman tossed five first-half interceptions in his NFL debut.
The Chargers (4-6) snapped a two-game slide as Rivers started his 186th consecutive regular-season game, the NFL’s second-longest active streak behind Eli Manning (209).
The Bills (5-5) benched Tyrod Taylor in favor of Peterman, but lost their third consecutive game.
Jaguars 19, Browns 7
Jacksonville running back Leonard Fournette slugged his way to 111 rushing yards as the Jaguars beat winless Cleveland and took sole possession of first place in the AFC South.
The Browns harassed Jaguars quarterback Blake Bortles throughout and the game, and the Jaguars (7-3) did the same to quarterback DeShone Kizer of the Browns (0-10).
Lions 27, Bears 24
Matthew Stafford completed 21 of 31 passes for 299 yards and two touchdowns, and Detroit outlasted Chicago.
A go-ahead, 52-yard field goal by kicker Matt Prater with 1:35 remaining helped the Lions (6-4) win their third consecutive game.
Bears kicker Connor Barth missed a 46-yard field-goal attempt with three seconds to go as Chicago (3-7) dropped its third game in a row.
Texans 31, Cardinals 21
Jadeveon Clowney led a timely defensive stand and Houston overcame two first-half turnovers to defeat Arizona.
Clowney’s fourth-down stop on Cardinals running back Adrian Peterson enabled the Texans (4-6) to seize control when on the ensuing snap rookie running back D‘Onta Foreman dashed 34 yards for a touchdown and a two-score lead.
The Cardinals (4-6) dropped consecutive games despite third-string quarterback Blaine Gabbert’s three touchdown passes.
Buccaneers 30, Dolphins 20
Patrick Murray drilled a 35-yard field goal with seven seconds left and Tampa Bay defeated Miami.
The Dolphins (4-6) attempted two laterals and a handoff on the kickoff after Murray’s field goal. Tampa Bay’s Adarius Glanton recovered a fumble on the handoff in the end zone for the final margin for the Bucs (4-6).


LONDON (Reuters) - Grigor Dimitrov claimed the biggest title of his career and sent out a huge statement of intent as the stylish Bulgarian beat David Goffin 7-5 4-6 6-3 to win the ATP Finals on Sunday.
The 26-year-old recovered from losing his opening two service games to finally get the better of the willowy Belgian player, but it was fiercely-fought two-and-a-half hour duel with Goffin saving four match points before finally succumbing.
Dimitrov’s unbeaten run this week in London earned him $2.5 million while the 1,500 ranking points have catapulted him to end an impressive year ranked third in the world -- behind only all-time greats Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer.
More significantly perhaps, landing the unofficial “fifth” grand slam appears to be proof that the former junior Wimbledon champion, once dubbed ‘Baby Federer’ because of his easy-on-the-eye style, has finally come of age.
“It’s been an amazing week for me,” Dimitrov said on court after becoming the first player to win the elite eight-man tournament on his first appearance in the event since Spaniard Alex Corretja beat countryman Carlos Moya in 1998.
“It’s such an honour to be here and this week has been one of the best weeks I’ve ever had.”
He was still on court nearly an hour after the match ended, signing autographs for the sizeable Bulgarian contingent who had roared their man to victory.
Yet it was tough on Goffin who, like Dimitrov, was his country’s first qualifier for the ATP Finals.
His substantial consolation, though, was to end the year at a career-high seventh, having become only the sixth man to beat Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer in the same tournament.
He will need to recover fast from the two hour 30 minute final -- the longest since the event adopted a three-set format -- as a Davis Cup final looms in France next weekend.
Many of the capacity crowd in the O2 Arena had doubtless booked their tickets in anticipation of watching the top two seeds Federer and Nadal go head-to-head but the two newcomers provided a fitting end to an extraordinary ATP season.
Goffin managed only two games against Dimitrov when they met on Wednesday in group play but recovered to beat Dominic Thiem to reach the semis where he stunned six-times champion Federer.
For Dimitrov, he was quickly a different proposition in the final, using his pinpoint accuracy to keep his gifted opponent under control and he was way ahead on the winner count as he moved 4-3 ahead.
A double-fault at 30-30 followed by a wayward forehand, though, gifted Dimitrov a break and seemed to energise the Bulgarian.
Dimitrov began to assert himself and piled on the pressure when Goffin served at 5-6. Goffin saved four set points, two with forehand winners, but double-faulted on a game point of his own before Dimitrov forced an error to wrap up the opener.
Goffin needed just one break of serve to take the match into a decider and looked the more likely winner for a while but when Dimitrov survived a 10-minute service game at the start of the third, saving four break points, it proved crucial.
With Goffin beginning to tire, Dimitrov moved 5-2 ahead with a break and then went 0-40 ahead on Goffin’s serve.
Somehow Goffin survived to extend the contest to another game and saved another match point on the Bulgarian’s serve.
He looked poised to save another one as he stretched Dimitrov all over the court but with the court at his mercy he put an attempted drop-volley into the net.


(The Sports Xchange) - Golden State Warriors forward Kevin Durant missed Sunday night’s game against the Brooklyn Nets with a sprained left ankle, the team announced.
Durant suffered the injury during Saturday night’s 124-116 road win over the Philadelphia 76ers. He scored 27 points on 11-of-20 shooting with five rebounds and two blocks in 33 minutes.
Durant is considered day-to-day and the injury is not believed to be serious.
He is averaging 24.9 points, 7.0 rebounds and 4.9 assists in 15 games this season.
The Warriors travel to Oklahoma City to play the Thunder on Wednesday. The game would be Durant’s second in Oklahoma City against his former team since joining the Warriors last season.
Washington Wizards guard John Wall missed Sunday’s game against the Toronto Raptors with a swollen left knee.
There is a chance Wall could be ready to play Monday against the Milwaukee Bucks.
He is averaging 19.9 points and 9.3 assists per game.
Philadelphia 76ers guard Markelle Fultz, the first overall pick in this year’s NBA draft, will miss at least two more weeks with a shoulder injury, the team announced.
Fultz has played just four games this season, averaging 6.0 points, and has not played since an Oct. 23 game against Detroit because of the shoulder problem.
Fultz will be re-examined in two to three weeks to determine whether he is ready to return.


(The Sports Xchange) - A proposed contract extension for commissioner Roger Goodell reportedly is on track to be completed soon despite Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones recently threatening to sue the NFL if the extension is approved.
Goodell’s proposed extension is expected to be completed at or before the NFL owners’ Dec. 13 meeting in Dallas, sources familiar with the deal told ESPN’s Adam Schefter.
According to the report, if all the bonus criteria are achieved in the proposed new deal, Goodell’s total potential compensation could average about $40 million for each year from 2019 to 2023, making it a five-year extension worth up to about $200 million.
Miami quarterback Jay Cutler was removed from the Dolphins game against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers due to a concussion evaluation.
Cutler was tackled on the first half’s next-to-last play -- a one-yard run -- by Tampa Bay’s Ryan Russell. Cutler stayed down for a moment and got up slowly.
He did not return for the second half, and the team announced he was under evaluation for a concussion and was ruled out for the rest of the game.
Browns defensive tackle Jamie Meder left Cleveland’s game against the Jacksonville Jaguars in the second quarter because of an ankle injury.
He did not return.
Meder was working as a backup to starter Danny Shelton in the Browns’ defensive line rotation.


(Reuters) - The Boston Bruins and Chicago Blackhawks will play in the 2019 Winter Classic on Jan. 1 at Notre Dame Stadium, Indiana, the National Hockey League announced on Saturday.
The Blackhawks will be making a league-most fourth appearance in the annual game, which is played outdoors and will feature the New York Rangers and Buffalo Sabres in the 2018 tilt at Citi Field.
Chicago lost to the St. Louis Blues 4-1 in the most recent Winter Classic, which was contested in Busch Stadium. The Bruins will make a third appearance in the game.
“The Boston Bruins are excited to be playing in the 2019 Bridgestone Winter Classic against another storied Original Six franchise, the Chicago Blackhawks,” said Bruins President Cam Neely.
“The rich history of Notre Dame Stadium is well documented, and our team looks forward to playing at such an iconic venue.”


(Reuters) - Kim Kaufman fired a third-round eight-under-par 64 to join Michelle Wie, Ariya Jutanugarn and Suzann Pettersen in a four-way tie at the top of a crowded leaderboard for the season-ending CME Group Tour Championship in Florida on Saturday.
Wie shot 66, Ariya 67 and Norway’s Pettersen 69 as all four players reached 10-under-par 206 heading into the final round at Tiburon Golf Club in Naples Florida.
A group of seven golfers, including overnight leader Park Sung-hyun (75) were a shot behind on nine-under 207.
The 26-year-old Kaufman, who is seeking her first LPGA victory, carded eight birdies to vault to the top.
Her performance in Florida is even more surprising given she has been unable to practice much recently. Kaufman told LPGA.com she had been resting at home for two weeks after a bout of mononucleosis and the cold weather in South Dakota made practice difficult.
Wie, who is seeking her first win since 2014, has not had the easiest of weeks. After six weeks off to recover from an emergency appendectomy, she played five consecutive events in Asia, leaving her short on energy.
“I’ve been sitting as much as I can,” said Wie. “Last week I was like laying down on the golf course.
”Basically, I‘m just a hermit crab this week. I‘m just sleeping as much as I can and not leaving my room; just really trying to keep my energy levels up.”
South Korean rookie Park, who had a three-stroke lead heading into Saturday’s round, blamed errant driving for her troubles.
“I think the tee shots were not quite solid, so there was something missing out there,” she said.
”Over the course of four days there is always a day when you are not in top shape and that was today. The key tomorrow will be keeping my focus.”
A lot will be at stake for the South Korean.
Win on Sunday and she will not only be the rookie of the year but also player of the year, the money leader and winner of the $1 million bonus. She will likely also return to world number one.


BOGOTA (Reuters) - A Colombian soccer match between Junior and Deportivo Pasto was postponed on Saturday after the visitors’ bus was attacked, leaving a player and two members of the backroom staff injured, the league said.
The match in Barranquilla was suspended “because of the attack suffered by the visitor’s bus 14km from the stadium,” the league said in a statement. “The match will be played tomorrow at 9am.”
The league’s Twitter page showed pictures of holes in the bus window caused by projectiles and an unidentified passenger cowering on the seat.
Junior, who sit third in the league, said the match would be played behind closed doors. The Barranquilla club could go top tomorrow with three points against the side in 15th place.


(Reuters) - The prospect of Fernando Alonso racing for Toyota at Le Mans this year moved a step closer after the Japanese manufacturer said he would test with them in Bahrain on Sunday.
The 36-year-old McLaren Formula One driver will drive the Toyota TS050 hybrid car in the one-day rookie test at the Sakhir circuit.
The test comes a day after the final race of the world endurance season, the Six Hours of Bahrain, with Alonso then traveling to Abu Dhabi for the year’s closing grand prix at Yas Marina.
The Spaniard visited Toyota’s Cologne factory on Nov. 7 for a seat fitting and simulator session.
“We are very excited that Fernando will test our car. When he visited us in Cologne everyone who met him could sense his enthusiasm and passion for our sport; he is a true racer,” said team president Hisatake Murata in a statement.
“We very much respect his interest in different forms of motorsport and it is a pleasure to offer him this chance to drive a hybrid LMP1 car.”
Double F1 world champion Alonso, who competed in this year’s Indianapolis 500, has set his sights on completing the so-called Triple Crown of motorsport.
The feat, only achieved by the late British driver Graham Hill, involves winning Indianapolis, The Le Mans 24 Hours sportscar car and the Formula One world championship.
Some consider the Triple Crown to be the Monaco Grand Prix, rather than the world championship, but Alonso has in any case won both.
The Spaniard will compete in the Daytona 24 Hours race in January as part of his preparations for an eventual Le Mans challenge.
Toyota, who have never won Le Mans, have yet to confirm their continuation in the world endurance championship next season but are expected to stay as the sole major car manufacturer.


LONDON (Reuters) - Grigor Dimitrov stood one win away from the biggest title of his career on Saturday after ending his Jack Sock jinx to reach the final of the season-ending ATP Finals at the 02 Arena.
The Bulgarian, finally beginning to look the real deal after year’s weighed down by comparisons to Swiss great Roger Federer, produced more dazzling tennis to win 4-6 6-0 6-3 and set up a Sunday showdown with fellow debutant David Goffin.
With Federer stunned earlier by Goffin, who Dimitrov thrashed in group play earlier in the week, the door had opened tantalizingly for the 26-year-old to go on and collect the biggest title of his career to date.
But Sock had won their last two meetings having saved match points, most recently at Indian Wells this year, and those demons were lurking for Dimitrov as victory loomed.
Poised for victory at 5-3 40-15 in the decider he made two nervy errors then ballooned a forehand out on a third match point. As proof of his greater mental fortitude these days, however, Dimitrov got the job done at the fourth attempt.
Victory means he will move above Alexander Zverev and end the year as world number three, with only all-time greats Federer and Rafael Nadal ahead of him.
“I don’t know what to say. This took a lot out of me,” Dimitrov, the first debutant to reach the semi-finals after going unbeaten in round robin play since Andy Murray in 2008, said on court. “But my belief was good today.”
Asked how he had controlled his nerves when serving for the match, Dimitrov said: ”You have to. I was very composed and didn’t let negative thoughts come to my head.
“If I’d have been broken in the last game then tough luck, I would have gone down the other side and played again. I‘m just so humbled to be able to play the final tomorrow.”
Sock had gate-crashed the London showpiece by winning the Paris Masters and catapulting up the standings and became the first American to reach the semi-finals since Andy Roddick in 2007 when Shanghai was the host city.
While his journey came to a halt, the 25-year-old said he now felt like he belonged at the top of the game.
”Shouldn’t have been here in the first place,“ he said. ”I mean, to be here, my first appearance, to make the semis, getting through a pretty tough group, that’s a big confidence booster for me.
“Now I want to go and play some golf.”


(Reuters) - Rookie Austin Cook edged closer to his maiden PGA Tour title after firing a third-round four-under-par 66 for a three-stroke lead at the RSM Classic in Sea Island, Georgia, on Saturday.
The 26-year-old collected his first bogey of the week but picked up five birdies at the Seaside course to reach 18-under 194, with former winner Chris Kirk (64) his closest challenger on 15-under.
Brian Gay, who turned in a 69, is alone in third place another stroke back while J.J. Spaun had eight birdies in a round of 62 to leave him in fourth place at 13-under 199.
Overnight leader Cook got off to a great start with birdies at the first two holes before making a clutch par at the third.
“We got a few putts to go early and just kind of kept the course,” he told PGA radio.
“It could have gotten ugly pretty quick if I didn’t get the ball quite up that hill,” Cook said after a poor tee shot on three. “But we were able to hit it to about eight feet and make the putt and keep the momentum.”
Two more birdies, at the seventh and ninth, took him to the turn at 4-under but he stumbled at 14 with a three-putt bogey. Cook did not allow his first dropped stroke of the week to get to him, however, as he hit back right away with another birdie.
“I’ve grown a lot maturity wise, mentally,” Cook said. “Nowadays I‘m trying to work really hard to let things slide off my shoulder.”
Kirk, who won the tournament in 2013, kept the pressure on with seven birdies and a bogey.
“It’s nice to be back in contention,” he said.


LONDON (Reuters) - As if clocking up a first victory over Rafael Nadal was not enough, David Goffin continued breaking new ground by stunning Roger Federer at the ATP Finals on Saturday to claim the biggest win of his career and reach the final.
Few gave the willowy world number eight a prayer against the Swiss maestro who had glided through his three round-robin matches unbeaten for the 10th time.
Yet Goffin, beaten in all six prior meetings with Federer, turned the tables to win 2-6 6-3 6-4 and become only the sixth player to beat Nadal and Federer in the same tournament.
He will face fellow first-time qualifier Grigor Dimitrov in Sunday’s final after the Bulgarian produced another classy display to beat American debutant Jack Sock 4-6 6-0 6-3.
Dimitrov, who will end the year at three in the rankings, will start as hot favourite having thrashed Goffin 6-0 6-2 in group play this week.
Goffin, the first Belgian to qualify for the season climax, could scarcely believe his victory over Federer.
“Both are really special. It was the first time against Rafa. Then the semi-final, to beat Roger for the first time here in such a big event, big tournament, it was the perfect moment,” Goffin, who beat a hobbling Nadal on Monday, said.
“It is the greatest win of my career, for sure.”
Goffin missed Wimbledon after injuring his ankle at the French Open but is enjoying a dream end to 2017 with next week’s Davis Cup final in France still to come.
On Saturday, it appeared he would have an extra day to prepare for national duty as 36-year-old Federer feasted on the elegant Goffin’s medium-pace game to boss the opener.
But Goffin is made of sterner stuff.
The second game of the second set was to prove a turning point as Goffin, beaten 6-2 6-1 by Federer in Basel last month, broke the Swiss’s serve with a forehand winner and then consolidated his lead to take the match into a decider.
Growing in confidence, the 26-year-old broke Federer’s serve again at 1-1 in the third set as the Swiss, suddenly hesitant, struck a backhand out.
Nineteen-times major champion Federer squandered a break-back point in the next game when his attempted pass was met with a sharp volley by Goffin.
Goffin stayed cool and his moment of truth arrived at 5-4. Consecutive aces gave him a 30-0 cushion before he put a nervy forehand in the net. Federer then went wide with a forehand to give Goffin two match points and a first serve proved too good.
It was only Federer’s fifth defeat of a superb year in which he roared back from an injury lay-off in 2016 to win the Australian Open and Wimbledon titles.
“It’s disappointing to finish on this note. But whatever happened today is less important than if I look at the entire season. With that season, I‘m extremely happy,” Federer said.
Dimitrov won his last two group matches for the loss of four games and continued in that vein against Sock, racing into a 4-0 lead. Sock began to offload on his seismic forehand though and roared back to snatch the opening set.
Sock switched off in the second set but was back firing in a superb decider, wasting a break point chance in the first game.
It was too close to call but two Sock double faults helped Dimitrov break for 5-3. The Bulgarian had lost his previous two clashes with Sock having held match points and three went begging in a nervy finale before he ended the contest.


LONDON (Reuters) - Roger Federer expects great things from the likes of Novak Djokovic, Stan Wawrinka and Andy Murray when they return from long injury layoffs at the start of next season.
Swiss maestro Federer took the second half of 2016 off to fully recover from a knee and back injuries and returned with a vengeance to win the Australian Open and Wimbledon - taking his grand slam total to 19.
Rafael Nadal also made an astonishing comeback from an injury-plagued 2016 to win the French and U.S. Open titles.
Federer’s staggering year ended in subdued fashion on Saturday when the 36-year-old’s hopes of a seventh ATP Finals title were ended by David Goffin in the semi-finals, Federer succumbing 2-6 6-3 6-4 at the O2 Arena.
Yet he is already looking forward with relish to when multiple major winners Djokovic, fellow Swiss Wawrinka and Britain’s Murray are expected to be back in action.
“You’ve always got to expect a slow process. Then if it goes fast, that’s great,” world number two Federer told reporters after losing to Goffin for only his fifth defeat of a year in which he won seven titles.
”You take time off, you come back, you’re good again. That’s not how it goes. Coming back is always a challenge for the body. It’s a challenge for the team because you’ve got to be extremely patient yet positive. Not so easy, you know, in some instances.
”But I expect from the guys who have been extremely high up in the rankings, who have won slams, like Stan, Andy and Novak, of course I expect greatness from them.
“When they return at some stage, not maybe from the very beginning. But I wouldn’t be surprised if it worked out for them as well like it worked out for me and Rafa.”
Twelve-times grand slam champion Djokovic (elbow) and three-times major winners Murray (hip) and Wawrinka (knee) have not played competitively since July.
Kei Nishikori and Milos Raonic were also missing from the ATP Finals this year, giving the tournament a new look with half the eight-man field being first-time qualifiers.
Federer believes with the returning heavyweights, the likes of Goffin and Grigor Dimitrov and a new wave led by Alexander Zverev pushing hard, 2018 promises to be a vintage one.
“I hope also Kei, Tomas (Berdych) and Milos all find their way back on Tour and are back in Australia because that would make it quite epic,” Federer said.
”Then you mix them together with the new guys from the World Tour Finals here who have just come off a great year, obviously are confident, want to stay in the top 10.
“They are sort of weaving their way in. You have the young guys coming through. I think it could be a very cool start to the year, which I‘m really looking forward to.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Seattle Seahawks strong safety Kam Chancellor is expected to miss the remainder of the season with a neck injury, according to multiple reports Saturday.
The news comes after the team lost star cornerback Richard Sherman to a torn Achilles in last week’s “Thursday Night Game” win against the Arizona Cardinals. Sherman was placed on injured reserve and had surgery to repair his Achilles on Wednesday.
Chancellor, an eight-year veteran, left the Seahawks’ 22-16 win on Nov. 9 with a neck injury on the Cardinals’ final possession.
Seahawks coach Pete Carroll indicated earlier that the four-time Pro Bowl selection suffered “neck stingers.” Chancellor did not participate in practice Thursday or Friday.
Chancellor, 29, has 49 tackles and a forced fumble in nine games this season. He has 12 career interceptions.
Bradley McDougald, who started the past two games at free safety, is expected to start for Chancellor at strong safety against the Atlanta Falcons on Monday night.
Safety Earl Thomas is expected back after missing the last two weeks with a hamstring injury.


(Reuters) - Former Olympic and world weightlifting champion Naim Suleymanoglu, one of the sport’s most successful athletes, has died aged 50 in a hospital in Istanbul, officials said on Saturday.
Suleymanoglu, known as the “Pocket Hercules” due to his short height of 1.47 meters, recently underwent a liver transplant.
“It’s a sad day for weightlifting,” Hasan Akkus, the president of the Turkish weightlifting federation and general secretary of the European weightlifting federation, told Reuters. “Naim was a phenomenal athlete.”
Bulgaria-born Suleymanoglu won three Olympic titles in the 60-kg and 64-kg categories between 1988 and 1996, competing for Turkey and seven world titles, competing for Bulgaria and Turkey.
After retiring, Suleymanoglu was an unsuccessful candidate in Turkey’s general election on two occasions.


LONDON (Reuters) - Andy Murray has mutually agreed to end his relationship with coach Ivan Lendl for a second time, the British former world number one said on Friday.
Murray was coached by Lendl from 2011-14 before he rejoined his team in June last year, helping Murray capture his second Wimbledon title and his second Olympic gold in Rio.
Murray, 30, ended 2016 as world number one having triumphed in the ATP Finals but struggled with injury for much of this year, missing the U.S. Open and falling to 16th in the rankings.
“I‘m thankful to Ivan for all his help and guidance over the years, we’ve had great success and learned a lot as a team. My focus now is on getting ready for Australia with the team I have in place and getting back to competing,” Murray said on his website.
Czech-born Lendl won 94 singles titles during his 16-year professional playing career, including eight grand slam triumphs. He never won Wimbledon having reached the final twice, but coached Murray for his two successes at the All England Club.
“I wish Andy well going forward. We had a great run and a lot of fun,” the 57-year-old said.


LONDON (Reuters) - At the start of the year there would have been long odds on Jack Sock, Grigor Dimitrov and David Goffin earning enough points to qualify for the ATP Finals, let alone reaching the last four.
Belgian Goffin completed that trio, however, on Friday when he recovered from a sluggish start to thrash Dominic Thiem 6-4 6-1 and set up a daunting semi-final clash with six-times champion and overwhelming favorite Roger Federer.
It promises to be a momentous final week of the season for world number eight Goffin who this time next week will be shouldering Belgium’s hopes of winning the Davis Cup for the first time in the final against France in Lille.
Before he can even start thinking about that he has to try to work out how to stop 19-times grand slam champion Federer on an indoor surface on which he appears almost unbeatable.
Goffin is 0-6 in previous meetings, most recently when he managed only three games in last month’s Swiss Indoors as Federer charged toward an eighth title in Basel.
“I’ve never found a key to beat Roger,” the 26-year-old Goffin, who beat a hobbling world number one Rafa Nadal on Monday before being crushed by Dimitrov in his second round-robin match at London’s O2 Arena, told reporters.
“Honestly, I don’t know what to do tomorrow. But I‘m going to try something, something different, something that I’ve never done in the past. I will try to do my best to play a better match than in Basel, for sure.”
Goffin appeared to be feeling the effects of his mauling by Dimitrov as he meekly went 3-0 down against Thiem on Friday.
But he suddenly came alive and won 15 points in a row to swing the match in his favor - breaking the error-strewn Austrian twice to take the opening set.
World number four Thiem looked flat, perhaps the effect of a 27-tournament season, and his game crumbled in the second set.
There was brief resistance in a 10-minute sixth game but Goffin held serve and claimed victory on his second match point with a searing backhand winner.
“As soon as I came back at 3-3 with a good service game, I knew that he was struggling a little bit with his groundstrokes,” Goffin said. “He was hitting too hard maybe. He lost his timing, started to think about how to hit the ball.”
Thiem, who qualified for the tournament for the second year thanks largely to a superb claycourt campaign, said he had just played a bad match.
“Too many errors, too many bad things. That’s why I lost,” the Austrian said.
The last time three players reached their first semi-final at the season-ending championships was in 2008 when Andy Murray, Novak Djokovic and Gilles Simon made it through.
Murray and Djokovic, together with regular qualifier Stan Wawrinka, were all absent with injuries this year.
Goffin will face Federer in Saturday’s first semi-final before Bulgarian Dimitrov takes on Sock.
World number six Dimitrov crushed alternate Pablo Carreno Busta of Spain 6-1 6-1 on Friday for his third successive group victory.
Carreno Busta replaced fellow Spaniard Nadal who withdrew after his round-robin defeat by Goffin.


LONDON (Reuters) - Dominic Thiem might want to take a leaf out of Jack Sock’s book when he sits down to ponder a disappointing end to his year.
While Sock played with a smile and on his face and some sparkle on his racket strings to reach this weekend’s last four of the ATP Finals, Thiem has lacked inspiration.
It came to a head on Friday when, after winning the first three games against Belgium’s David Goffin, he lost 10 of the next 12 to bow out of the season-ender on a dismal note.
His one round-robin victory at the 02 this week came against alternate Pablo Carreno Busta - only his third ATP Tour victory since squandering a two-set lead to lose to Juan Martin del Potro in the U.S. Open fourth round.
“It doesn’t have anything to do with the amount of tournaments I’ve played,” the subdued Austrian, who has played 27 tournaments his season, told reporters.
”Of course, the U.S. Open was very painful. I have to admit it. Today was like the last month, I guess.
“It’s been a tough period and maybe (the Del Potro) loss has still been on my mind.”
A stale-looking Thiem looked as though he was carrying the world on his shoulders as he committed 27 unforced errors against Goffin. He was a shadow of the player who reached the French Open and Rome semi-finals and was runner-up in Madrid.
Kansas-based Sock, on the other hand, is finishing the season like a tornado and puts his late-season charge down to the simple idea of having fun on court rather than putting himself under intense pressure.
It worked a treat for the first American qualifier for the ATP Finals since 2011 with wins over Marin Cilic and German trailblazer Alexander Zverev.
Sock has been a breath of fresh air, treating the crowds to trick shots as well as his cannonball forehand and his semi-final against fellow first-time qualifier Grigor Dimitrov on Saturday promises to be a feast of spectacular tennis.
While Thiem’s dip has come at the end of the year, Sock’s came in the middle - prompting a re-think.
“You’re going to lose some matches, you’re going to have some bad weeks, it’s part of sport. I think I let that get me down a lot through the year,” Sock said.
”Finally, I talked to my coach at home. We kind of said, ‘screw it’ take that pressure off, go have fun on court.
“Once I did that, I think my better tennis is showing.”
Sock was 24th in the Race to London rankings going in to the last regular week of he season and had a round of golf booked at Augusta National this week, only to win the Paris Masters and qualify for the season-ender.
“Obviously, when you sneak into the eighth spot the week before, three days before the event starts, it definitely takes some nerves away,” the 25-year-old said.
“I‘m going to have fun, play big, play free. No one expected me to be here in the first place. There’s no reason to start putting pressure on myself now.”


(Reuters) - Nigeria may be within grasp of an historic first ever appearance in the winter Olympics, but the three members of the Super Eagles women’s bobsleigh team have bigger goals than simply qualifying to race next year in Pyeongchang.
Make no mistake, this is not “Cool Runnings II”, a sequel to the Jamaican bobsleigh team’s winter fantasy immortalized in the Hollywood hit movie.
Seun Adigun, Ngozi Onwumere and Akuoma Omeoga will not be heading to February’s Games just to be a feel good side story, They are looking for a medal.
No African nation has ever competed in an Olympic bobsled event and for this trio of trail-blazing Nigerian women getting to the winter Games is where their journey begins, not ends.
They took a big step toward that goal this week in Calgary by completing the fifth of their required five qualifying races on the same track that the Jamaican bobsled team shot to global fame at the 1988 Winter Games.
”We have goals,“ Adigun, the driver and driving force behind the dream of a Nigerian team told Reuters in a telephone interview. ”I know the goal I have as a driver is to drive us to the podium, that’s just the competitor in me.
”Realistically, the goals we set we’re for the program.
”A lot of our goals have been met just establishing this entire entity, starting this process and making our way to the Games.
“Obviously, the bigger goal is to just be as competitive as we can and obviously shoot for the podium.”
Although the Nigerians have achieved the qualifying standard, there is still work to be done.
Countries hoping to race in Pyeongchang must be in the top 40 of the global rankings on Jan. 14 after seven World Cup races.
“It is not possible for any team to qualify for the Olympic Games this early,” Nicola Minichiello, the North American Cup Coordinator for International Bobsleigh Skeleton Federation (IBSF), told Reuters in an email.
“If we base their results on last year’s rankings the team are likely to qualify, however this will not be confirmed until much closer to the time.”
While the Nigerians have a little farther to go, they have come a long way.
The reality of competing in South Korea began in a Texas garage in 2014, where Adigun, born in the United States to Nigerian parents, made her dream start to take shape by hammering together a makeshift sled out of wood and scraps that she named the “Mayflower”.
A former sprinter who competed in 100 meters hurdles for Nigeria at the 2012 London Olympic Games, Adigun recruited brakewomen Onwumere and Akuoma Omeoga to make her dream theirs.
The three women have plenty of drive, ambition and pure athletic ability but were short on cash as the hard work of getting to the Olympics was split between training and fund-raising.
Adigun, who fell in love with the sport as a brakewoman in the U.S. bobsled program, estimated the Olympic bid to cost around $150,000.
With the help of fund-raising efforts from boot camps to dances, a gofundme page and the support of the IBSF emerging nations program and Team VISA, which is backing 52 athletes from 20 countries in 15 sports, the Nigeria bobsledders say they now have enough money to fuel their Olympic dream.
“We did a homecoming in April as team to just go and introduce ourselves to the country as the team so people would know we are serious,” Adigun said. “This is something we wanted to do for the continent and the country.”


GRENOBLE, France (Reuters) - Canada’s Kaetlyn Osmond took the lead in the France grand prix with a crowd-pleasing but flawed short program on Friday as Spain’s Javier Fernandez returned to winning ways with a season-best performance.
Skating to Edith Piaf’s “Sous le ciel de Paris” and “Milord” at the Internationaux de France in Grenoble, Osmond had the crowd clapping along despite landing awkwardly on her double toeloop and putting her hand on the ice to regain balance after her triple lutz.
Osmond, the world silver medalist who won the Skate Canada event last month, still secured first place with 69.05 points in the penultimate qualifying event for next month’s grand prix final.
“Definitely not my best short program,” Osmond wrote on Twitter. “But I‘m proud I fought through and made being here worth it.”
Osmond was closely followed by Russia’s Maria Sotskova, who ranked second with 67.79 points. Sotskova cleanly executed a triple lutz-triple toeloop combination but made a two-footed landing on her triple flip.
Japan’s Yuna Shiraiwa, 15, came in third with a graceful performance devoid of any major mistakes, earning the highest technical elements score.
After winning her first grand prix event this month, world junior champion Alina Zagitova struggled to find her rhythm, falling on her triple lutz triple toe combination before taking another tumble on her triple flip.
The 15-year-old Russian ranked fifth with 62.46 points.
Fernandez, twice world champion, landed two quads in a dazzling performance that earned him first place with 107.86 points.
The Spaniard led the group by a large margin, finishing almost 14 points ahead of second-place finisher Shoma Uno of Japan, who fell on his quad flip at the start of his program.
Fernandez’s inspired skate showed he was back on track after a disastrous performance at the China grand prix event this month where he faltered on three jumps in his free program.
Russia’s Evgenia Tarasova and Vladimir Morozov, the bronze medalists at this year’s world championships, finished first in the pairs with 77.84 points despite being out of sync in the step sequence at the end of their short program.
An energetic performance by France’s Vanessa James and Morgan Cipres saw them take second place, finishing nearly five points behind the Russian pair.
In ice dance, France’s Gabriella Papadakis and Guillaume Cizeron skated their season’s best short program, finishing first with 81.40 points.
They were nearly eight points ahead of second-placed Madison Chock and Evan Bates of the United States.


LONDON (Reuters) - Four-times ATP Finals doubles champions Bob and Mike Bryan bowed out of the tournament after a surprise 6-4 6-4 defeat by alternates Oliver Marach and Mate Pavic on Friday.
The American twins, seeded fifth, finished their round-robin matches with only one win and their exit was confirmed later when Britain’s Jamie Murray, together with Brazilian partner Bruno Soares, beat world number one duo Lukasz Kubot and Marcelo Melo.
Mike Bryan remains tied with Canadian Daniel Nestor on a record 1,056 doubles match wins in the professional era.
Murray and Soares won 6-2 6-4 ensuring there will be some British interest in the final weekend of the season.
Marach and Pavic replaced Ivan Dodig and Marcel Granollers for the final day of round-robin play.
Murray and Soares will face John Peers and Henri Kontinen in the semis, while Kubot and Melo take on Ryan Harrison and Michael Venus.


(Reuters) - Tommy Fleetwood regained control in the Race to Dubai, rebounding from his poor first round to shoot a seven-under-par 65 and also power back into the hunt for the DP World Tour Championship title on Friday.
Englishman Fleetwood, who went into the season-defining event at Dubai’s Jumeirah Golf Estates course leading the race to find Europe’s leading golfer of the year, shot eight birdies in his second round after his disappointing opening 73.
It meant he moved back into pole position at half-way after his nearest contender, fellow Englishman Justin Rose, who had moved ahead of him in the projected rankings after the first round, slipped behind again by bogeying the last hole.
Yet the battle for the $1.25 million season-long accolade remains almost too tight to call. Rose’s second round 70 leaves him still two shots ahead of 11th placed Fleetwood, but that final hole slip dropped him to joint third in the tournament.
The in-form Rose, who trails Fleetwood by 256,737 points in the race but has won his last two tournaments, needs to finish in the top two in Dubai and beat his compatriot to triumph.
The half-way pacesetter was another Englishman, Matthew Fitzpatrick, the defending DP World Tour champion who shot a second straight 67 to move on to 10-under, one clear of compatriot Tyrrell Hatton, who recorded a blistering day’s best 63.
Fleetwood was delighted to get back on track to take the big prize.
“There’s still a tournament to play for and there’s still a Race to Dubai to play for. But I needed a low one today for sort of both purposes,” Fleetwood said.
“So the sole focus was to try to get back into this event today. I knew I needed a low one.”
Masters champion Sergio Garcia, the only other contender in the Race, is a shot behind Fleetwood and three adrift of Rose after his 69.


LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Philadelphia 76ers forward Joel Embiid has positioned himself as the NBA’s most charming villain: trash-talking, tweeting, and smiling his way to his own brand of entertaining dominance.
The Cameroonian seven-footer is as fleet-footed as he is quick-witted, and the lethal combination is ruffling feathers of opponents as he brushes past them en route to claiming his superstar status.
“There’s a mischievous side in Joel, and there’s surely a competitive side in Joel. That’s who he is,” 76ers coach Brett Brown told Reuters on Wednesday after Philadelphia defeated the host Los Angeles Lakers behind Embiid’s brilliance.
“He brings a cocky side and a swagger to the rest of his team mates that is priceless.”
Embiid was at his best as a good-natured irritant on Wednesday when he destroyed the Lakers by scoring a career-high 46 points to go along with 15 rebounds, seven assists, and seven blocks. It was one of the more memorable nights of the young NBA season, but his statistics played only a small role.
Facing a Staples Center crowd that booed the 23-year-old passionately, Embiid embraced the venom. He danced after scores, chatted with courtside fans and Lakers coach Luke Walton, and generally punished the opposition at every turn.
”Too bad there wasn’t any trash-talker out there. But I still had fun,“ Embiid said following the 115-109 victory. “When I got going I just wanted to be aggressive. That’s my new mentality.”
Embiid punctuated the night with a move that has become as signature as his turnaround jump shots in the post: he sent a social media jab. Embiid posted a photo to Instagram of him scoring over high profile Lakers rookie Lonzo Ball.
Embiid had sparked a feud with Ball, and more specifically his bombastic father Lavar Ball, over the summer when he tweeted to team mate Ben Simmons and told him “Please dunk on him so hard that his daddy runs on the court to save him.”
Lavar returned verbal fire and Embiid was later fined by the league for using inappropriate language on social media.
But Embiid’s brashness is no longer confined to the internet. As the 76ers (8-6) rise with Australian rookie sensation Simmons and second-year Embiid, who is now averaging 23 points, 11.2 rebounds and 1.9 blocks, the big man has expanded his audience.
Embiid exchanged tense words with NBA Finals MVP Kevin Durant during a matchup with the reigning champion Golden State Warriors on Saturday, and two days later butted heads with the Los Angeles Clippers as he taunted and stared his way to 32 points and 16 boards.
“To me, he doesn’t cross the line,” Brown said. “If it got to the stage where I felt he is hurting the team I’ve got to do my job. But it’s really never been that. He is fun, he wears his heart on his sleeve.”
Embiid opened the season with a minutes restriction due to foot injuries that caused him to miss the first two seasons of his career. But the young man who calls himself “The Process” in reference to the franchise’s rebuilding process, appears to have removed all reins from his game.
“He’s a beast. I‘m just throwing it to him and letting him do his thing,” said Simmons, of Embiid. “He’s getting better every game.”
Embiid is also getting louder, and more difficult to ignore as he instigates a unique kind of loveable hate.


WARSAW (Reuters) - When the Canadian coach Bruno Marcotte started working with a pair of Olympics-qualified North Korean figure skaters, he did not expect much warmth from them.
But after every training session, the pair, Ryom Tae-ok, 18, and Kim Ju-sik, 25, would come up to him and give him a hug.
“It was very personal, very affectionate,” Marcotte said on his recent trip to Warsaw. “They were not afraid to show their emotions.”
Whether the skaters will show up at the Winter Olympics in February in Pyeongchang, South Korea, remains unknown, with tensions running high between the two neighbors. The standoff over North Korea leader Kim Jong Un’s nuclear program looms over games.
Should Pyongyang decide to send the pair, that could have diplomatic implications for the two neighbors that are technically still at war since their 1953 conflict. North Korea boycotted the 1988 Summer Olympics in South Korea’s Seoul.
Marcotte, who started working with the pair after the World Figure Skating Championships in March, said he doesn’t know if they’ll compete.
“We’re hearing so many stories,” the 43-year-old Marcotte said. “But it’s not something that they want to share right now with many people in the world.”
A former skater himself, Marcotte said he would love the pair to attend the Olympics, but added he didn’t talk about it much with them.
“It was more about how can we win a world medal, it was really about being the best team in the world,” he said.
He sensed, however, that the efforts and energy of Pyongyang were now behind the pair, who were the country’s first athletes to qualify for the 2018 games.
Marcotte, who works with a couple of dozen skaters from other countries, said he met with the pair earlier this year and they “chatted” a bit. In March, the North Koreans approached him with a proposition.
“I didn’t (have to) think about it,” he said. “The way they approached me was very friendly, very genuine.”
Ryom Tae-ok and Kim Ju-sik spent with about two months in Montreal in the summer, training.
“I felt that there was a team with a potential but like a rough diamond - rough, but one that could be so good eventually,” he said.
With the pair working with top of the line equipment but not very big in stature, Marcottte said he thinks they need more power, more speed: the throws could be bigger, the twists could have more height, their single jumps after triple toe loops could be more consistent.
The pair, always traveling with a man from the North Korean skating federation who Marcotte says acts as their “link to the world,” as translator and chaperone, get along very well.
“Their ultimate dream is to become world champions,” Marcotte said. “Why not? It’s just a matter of opportunity, it’s a matter of them being consistent. The one thing that I did advise them was to compete more often internationally.”


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia’s deputy prime minister Vitaly Mutko said that it would be unacceptable and humiliating for Russia to take part in the Winter Olympics in South Korea without the national flag and anthem, RIA news agency reported on Friday.
The International Olympic Committee is set to decide on Russia’s participation in the Winter games at its executive board meeting on Dec. 5-7.
Russian athletes may be only allowed to compete as neutrals at the Olympics due to doping allegations.
Mutko said that Russia is ready to cooperate with the World Anti-Doping Agency, but the other side should show willing too.


ASUNCION (Reuters) - A Paraguayan judge authorized on Thursday the extradition of the former president of the South American Football Confederation (Conmebol) Nicolas Leoz to the United States, where he faces bribery accusations in a corruption investigation of world football executives.
The decision by Judge Humberto Otazu, which was seen by Reuters, will be appealed, Leoz’s lawyer said.
Leoz, 89, who has been under house arrest since mid-2015, is being investigated by the U.S. Justice Department along with other leaders and executives accused of accepting bribes for broadcast rights and marketing.
Leoz’s lawyer, Ricardo Preda, told journalists he would appeal the decision. Preda said he had not been notified by the court and argued his client should not be extradited because private bribery is not a punishable crime in Paraguay.
Otazu said in an official document that a medical board, including a forensic officer of the judiciary and a doctor proposed by the defense, should report on Leoz’s health status before his extradition.
Paraguay received the formal request for Leoz’s extradition in July 2015. According to Paraguayan laws, the former sports leader’s age is not a barrier to extradition.
Leoz was in charge of Conmebol for 27 years until he resigned in 2013, blaming health reasons in the midst of an investigation by the FIFA ethics committee. He also was a member of the FIFA executive committee for more than a decade.
Otazu’s decision comes as the trial begins in New York for Juan Angel Napout, Leoz’s successor as president of Conmebol, the former president of the Peruvian federation Manual Borga and former head of the Confederation of Brazilian Football Jose Maria Marin.


(The Sports Xchange) - Sarah Jane Smith and Peiyun Chien posted 6-under 66s Thursday in the first round of the LPGA’s season-ending CME Group Tour Championship in Naples, Fla.
Smith and Chien are both seeking for their first LPGA victories and completed bogey-free rounds at Tiburon Golf Club.
Smith carded the lowest round of her career. The 33-year-old Australian opened with five straight pars but began moving toward the lead by hitting an eagle at the par-5 sixth hole.
“I holed some nice putts,” Smith said. “It was a bit rough in the beginning, but (I) holed some nice putts for par and sort of kept it going, and then made some good birdies coming in.”
Smith has only missed four cuts but also struggled in the latter rounds of tournaments, finishing with two top-10 finishes. She is optimistic something in her swing can help her get a tournament victory.
“I’ve been working on a little bit more tempo in my swing, I can get really fast out there,” Smith said. “I sort of made a conscious effort a few weeks ago to sort of do it on the golf course and it’s made a huge difference.”
Chien, a 27-year-old rookie from Chinese Taipei, finished with the second-lowest round of career. Her lowest round was the opening round 64 at the Marathon Classic when she finished third for her only top-10 finish on the LPGA tour.
“Just need to believe in myself,” Chien said. “I change a little (on my) backswing so (I) feel a little bit more solid.”
Smith and Chien hold a one-stroke lead over Suzann Petterson, Karine Icher, Lydia Ko, Azahara Munoz and Sung Hyun Park.
Park hit a pair of birdies on the closing stretch. She only needs to win the final LPGA event to win the CME Race to the Globe and the $1 million bonus.
Park is trying to become the first rookie since Nancy Lopez in 1978 to all the major awards. She already won rookie of the year.
Ko, who is seeking her first victory in 35 events, made a 15-foot eagle putt on the par-5 17th and then made par with a shot from the bunker on the final hole.
Lexi Thompson, who leads the Race to the CME Globe, finished with a 1-under 71, putting her five strokes behind the leaders.


LONDON (Reuters) - Amazon.com will exclusively stream 37 top men’s tennis tournaments from 2019 to its Amazon Prime Video subscribers in Britain and Ireland after it won the ATP broadcast rights from pay-TV group Sky.
The deal underlines Amazon’s ambition to challenge traditional pay-TV providers by using exclusive sports and entertainment content to attract people to its video service.
Amazon will also be the pay-TV partner for the season-ending Nitto ATP Finals at The O2 in London, and from 2018 the Queen’s Club Championships and the Eastbourne International, ATP said.
Amazon Prime, which also offers music and free delivery for Amazon purchases, costs 79 pounds ($104) a year in Britain.
ATP said the deal, which covers the top competitions outside the four Grand Slams, would take tennis to a bigger audience and enable fans to watch how and when they wanted.
“This is really the first time that a major sport in a key market has awarded its rights to an Over-The-Top provider,” said Stuart Watts, chief operating officer of ATP Media.
ATP said a “golden generation of players” and a global platform of tournaments had increased the appeal of the game.
“We are looking to attract a new generation of fans who really are demanding a greater flexibility to be able to decide the time and place they tune in to watch their favorite content,” said ATP Executive Chairman Chris Kermode.
ATP declined to say how much Amazon was paying for the rights but said it had secured a higher price than in the last auction. Sky paid about 8 million pounds ($10.6 million) a year, according to reports.
Amazon said it would offer fans on-demand replays and highlights as well as live matches.
“It’s the next step for Amazon and live sports following up on the deal we have currently in place with the NFL, where we are streaming 11 games,” said Amazon Video’s Head of Sport Jim DeLorenzo.
Tennis TV, ATP Media’s direct to consumer streaming service, will also be available for subscription on Amazon’s Channels for Prime members in the United States from 2018, ATP said.
Earlier this month Amazon streamed all 16 Next Gen ATP Finals matches during the inaugural men’s 21-and-under showcase, after announcing it had won those rights in September.


LONDON (Reuters) - Jack Sock became the first American to reach the last four of the ATP Finals for 10 years when he stunned world number three Alexander Zverev in a firecracker of a match on Thursday.
The world number nine, who barged through the back door to qualify for the London showpiece by winning the Paris Masters, triumphed 6-4 1-6 6-4 to prolong his London adventure.
Roger Federer had already won the Boris Becker group, having  battled back to beat Marin Cilic earlier to post a perfect round-robin record at the event for a 10th time.
Six-times champion Federer won 6-7(5) 6-4 6-1 leaving the stage set for Zverev and Sock to slug it out for the runners-up spot and a semi-final against Bulgarian Grigor Dimitrov.
Talk of a possible Federer-Zverev re-match in Sunday’s final, after their high-quality duel on Tuesday, was doing the rounds but Sock, nicknamed ‘Showtime’, was not listening.
The 25-year-old from Kansas looked to have blown himself out when a 4-1 lead evaporated in the decider, but the 20-year-old Zverev admitted later he “choked” when serving at 4-5, double-faulting and then bunting a forehand wide to hand Sock victory.
“That was a rollercoaster of a match for sure, that’s been the theme of my last few weeks, hang in there and keep fighting,” Sock, who seemed to be imploding when he received a penalty point at the start of the third set, said on court.
Andy Roddick was the last American to reach the semis.
Sock mixes eye-watering power with a deft touch and it was that combination that disrupted Zverev’s smooth power.
The American broke for a 4-3 lead in the first set but then almost gifted it straight back, recovering from 0-40 with five unanswered points to lead 5-3.
Two games later a nonchalant drop shot, one of the favorite tricks in his locker, gave him first blood.
Zverev took the second set in the blink of an eye, although Sock carried on entertaining the crowd, as he has done all week, and at one point attempted a lob played through his legs rather than dispatching a routine forehand.
When Sock dropped serve at the start of the third set after some incredible defense by Zverev, he launched a ball high into the upper tiers of the 02 arena.
The penalty point he incurred meant Zverev started the next game 15-0 ahead but the German lost focus and was broken.
Zverev double-faulted to gift Sock another break for a 3-1 lead and was staring defeat in the face at 4-1 down.
He battled back but it proved in vain as a season which earned him five titles came to a sudden halt.
“I choked. It’s quite easy,” said Zverev. “When I got back at 4-5 that’s one of the worst games I think I played all year.”
Federer had already booked a semi-final spot with his win over Zverev on Tuesday but there was no chance of him letting up on Cilic, who now has a 1-8 record in three visits to the 02.
World number five Cilic put up much more resistance than he did when blisters left him in tears against Federer in the Wimbledon final but it still was not enough.
Federer was in danger at 4-4, 30-30 in the second set, having lost the opening tiebreak, but turned on the style to win his 55th career match at the tournament.
The Swiss has reached the last four in 14 out of 15 appearances in the year-end tournament and will face David Goffin or Dominic Thiem for a place in the final.


LONDON (Reuters) - Germany’s 20-year-old Alexander Zverev has enjoyed a sensational year, winning five tournaments and reaching world number three, but it all ended in anti-climax on Thursday at the ATP Finals.
Zverev lost his final round-robin match 6-4 1-6 6-4 to American Jack Sock who moved into the semi-finals at the expense of the man tipped to be a future grand slam champion.
When Zverev won the second set and broke at the start of the third against the world number nine, it seemed just a matter of time before he was powering smoothly to victory.
But the German then completely lost his focus to go 4-1 down and although he battled back to 4-4, he produced a horror of a game at 4-5, serving an eighth double fault at 30-30 before a lame forehand into the tramlines ended the contest.
“I choked. It’s quite easy. Won the second set 6-1. I was 1-0 with a break. He got a point penalty. I was down 1-4 within 10 minutes where I didn’t put many balls in the court,” he told reporters. “When I got back at 4-5, that’s one of the worst games I think I played all year.”
Asked to reflect on his breakthrough season, Zverev found it hard to look past a disappointing finish.
“It’s been an awesome year. But the end of the year was absolute crap for me,” said Zverev, who marked his first ATP Finals qualification with a win over Marin Cilic before losing a three-setter to six-times champion Roger Federer.
”If I would have played the whole year like I did, by the end of the year I don’t think I would have finished top 50.
“That’s a bit unfortunate for me.”
Zverev said he will not stew over it for long though.
”I‘m going to go on holidays now. I‘m going to enjoy my brother’s wedding. I‘m going to do that in the Maldives. I’ll get over it. I‘m definitely going to enjoy that.
“Then I‘m going to work hard in the off-season.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones has been informed by other NFL owners via letter that he is engaging in “conduct detrimental to the league’s best interests,” the New York Times reported on Thursday.
The letter was sent to Jones through his attorney, David Boies, on Wednesday, one day after Jones expressed publicly that he had no intention of halting his efforts to prevent NFL commissioner Roger Goodell from receiving a contract extension.
Jones has threatened to sue the NFL if the extension is approved by the six-owner compensation committee, headed by Atlanta Falcons owner Arthur Blank.
The letter accuses Jones of sabotaging the negotiations in the latest round of the escalating feud between Jones and Goodell. Jones is suspected of sharing outdated documents about negotiations with Goodell to other owners.
It was revealed last weekend that Goodell requested a salary of approximately $49.5 million, a private jet and lifetime health insurance of his family last August. Goodell’s contract expires in 2018.
Also boiling at the surface is Jones’ disappointment over the six-game suspension running back Ezekiel Elliott is currently serving for an alleged domestic violence incident. Elliott ended his legal fight on Wednesday with five games remaining.
Jones is insisting the percolating feud about Elliott isn’t part of his threat to sue the NFL.
Regardless, the letter makes it clear other owners are disturbed with Jones’ recent actions.
“Your client’s antics, whatever their motivation, are damaging the league and reflect conduct detrimental to the league’s best interests,” the letter said, according to the Times.
In May, Jones voted in favor of extending Goodell’s contract.
On his Tuesday radio show, Jones said “well over half” of the owners agreed with his stance of conducting a final vote after the compensation committee finishes the negotiating with Goodell.
“With due respect, we urge Mr. Jones to drop his misguided litigation threats and media campaign to undermine the committee’s mandate,” the letter said. “And we urge Mr. Jones to support the committee’s deliberations, not attempt to sabotage them.”
There has been discussion that the NFL could evoke a clause in which it could remove Jones as Cowboys owner or force a sale.


LONDON (Reuters) - World number one Rafael Nadal was awarded 12,000 euros ($14,000) damages on Thursday after a French court found in his favor over comments made by the country’s former Sports Minister.
Nadal announced last year he would sue Roselyne Bachelot after she made comments in a television interview suggesting he had taken performance enhancing drugs in 2012.
The Spaniard, who ended his season on Monday after losing to David Goffin at the ATP Finals, has vigorously denied any wrongdoing and said he would donate the money to a French NGO.
“As you can see in the media, today is a happy day for me, my team and my fans,” the 16-times grand slam champion said in a statement.
“The French justice has resolved the case in favor of my honesty and integrity as a sports player. I want to thank all of you who believed in me.”


(Reuters) - A canceled Formula One tire test meant McLaren reserve Lando Norris effectively flew all the way from Britain to Brazil this week just to take a bath.
The 18-year-old, racing in this weekend’s Macau F3 race, told reporters he was soaking in the bathtub after arriving in Sao Paulo when the two-day test at Interlagos was canceled for security reasons.
The Formula Three European champion then flew back to Paris, on to Shanghai and Macau.
“I had just got to the hotel in Brazil and was having a nice bath,” he told motorsport.com on Thursday after securing provisional pole position in Macau.
”I was reading the instruction manual to get used to all the buttons on the steering wheel of the McLaren as it takes quite a bit of time to get used to. Then I got the call that it got canceled.
“So I went back to having my bath...I can say that I literally went to Brazil for a bath. If anyone asks what is my best travel tale, it’s going to Brazil for a bath.”
The Pirelli tire test was canceled after armed robbers attacked team cars and vans outside the circuit at night during the weekend’s Brazilian Grand Prix.
Four times world champion Lewis Hamilton said members of his Mercedes team were robbed of valuables at gunpoint.


LONDON (Reuters) - New Zealander Brendon Hartley and French driver Pierre Gasly will race for Toro Rosso next season, the Red Bull-owned Formula One team said on Thursday.
Hartley, a Le Mans 24 Hours sportscar winner with Porsche and double world endurance champion, was drafted in to the team last month and will be starting his first full F1 season in 2018.
So too will Gasly, who made his debut in Malaysia at the beginning of October.
“It’s very satisfying to have converted an opportunity that came as a surprise into a 2018 F1 drive, I couldn’t be happier,” said Hartley, who got his break when Toro Rosso were casting around for a U.S. Grand Prix stand-in.
“I’d like to thank Red Bull and Toro Rosso for believing in me and giving me this second chance -- dreams can come true,” added the 28-year-old, who tested with the team as a teenager.
Carlos Sainz had left for Renault and Gasly, the Spaniard’s replacement, had other commitments in Japan where he was competing for the Super Formula title.
That left Toro Rosso needing to find another driver, having already recalled Russian Daniil Kvyat. Hartley impressed and was confirmed alongside Gasly to the end of the season, with Kvyat leaving.
Team principal Franz Tost said both rookies had shown they had what it takes.
“We have been truly impressed by their steep learning curves. As we know, F1 is something that not all drivers can adapt to this fast,” said the Austrian.
“Therefore, we’re looking forward to having a full year with them; One where we can hopefully provide them with a good package which, combined with driver consistency, can surely put them in the best possible situation to deliver.”
Toro Rosso are switching from Renault to Honda engines next season and are fighting the French manufacturer and U.S.-owned Haas team for sixth place in the constructors’ championship.
Renault are just four points behind Toro Rosso and two clear of Haas with the difference between sixth and eighth places measured in millions of dollars when it comes to revenue payments.
Neither Hartley nor Gasly has scored a point so far, with the former set to start his fourth race of the season in Abu Dhabi next week and the Frenchman his fifth.
The team’s driver confirmation leaves only Williams and Sauber with uncertain lineups.
Williams need to replace retiring Brazilian Felipe Massa while Sauber are expected to bring in at least one Ferrari-backed driver with Monaco’s Formula Two champion Charles Leclerc seemingly sure of a seat.


MANCHESTER, England (Reuters) - CONCACAF’s governing council has agreed to launch a new Nations League tournament, for teams in North and Central America and the Caribbean, president Victor Montagliani told Reuters on Thursday.
The competition will begin in the international dates in September, 2018 and will feature all 41 member countries of the confederation which includes Mexico and the United States.
Those nations will be split into three divisions, based on their “sporting level” with promotion and relegation. The tournament will also serve as a qualifying route to the CONCACAF Gold Cup tournament.
The format is similar to UEFA’s Nations League in Europe which will also begin in September but Montagliani believes it will address the problem facing the region’s smaller, often Caribbean island, nations who have found it hard to get regular competitive action.
“This new tournament is highly beneficial to all our member associations and fans everywhere, since it provides significant opportunities to play important competitive matches with increased regularity throughout the year,” Montagliani said in a telephone interview.
“The biggest difference between our Nations League and the UEFA, is that their nations were already playing a significant amount of games... But for us it was to allow our countries to play a mininum amount of games over a four year window,” added the Canadian.
“Our bigger countries have the capacity to do that but the way our system was, in my opinion was archaic and you had countries who were playing four to six games in a four year period. It is kind of hard then to develop football in any capacity,” he said.
With a large number of teams who have never featured in the World Cup and who have struggled to organize and finance friendly matches, Montagliani said CONCACAF had a real need for games in order to help teams progress.
“Sure, some countries are not necessarily going to win the World Cup, but that is not the point. The point is that everybody deserves, the basic necessities to try to develop their game and I think this League of Nations provides a great platform for all 41 countries,” he said.
Montagliani said the format, which will be finalised in detail by February, would ensure that all teams have the resources to feature in the competition.
“This allows the smaller countries to participate at a minimum level which has not always been the case in the past,” he said.
As well as winning the backing of national federation presidents across the region, CONCACAF have had discussions with potential broadcast partners who Montagliani said had shown interest.
He said the new tournament was proof that the confederation, which under its previous leaderships was heavily implicated in the FIFA corruption scandal, was now focusing on the right areas.
“I said when I was elected that it is time for this confederation to be about football. We have been looking at all our competitions and this is the continuation of our philosophy that football is first. This confederation needs to show that - and we have.”


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian Sports Minister Pavel Kolobkov said on Thursday some of the World Anti-Doping Agency’s (WADA) criteria for the reinstatement of Russian anti-doping agency RUSADA have a “political character,” R-Sport news agency reported.
Kolobkov’s comments came after WADA ruled that RUSADA, which was suspended two years ago over a report alleging state-sponsored doping, remained “non-compliant”.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Buffalo Bills announced a change at quarterback following a blowout loss, benching Tyrod Taylor to start rookie Nathan Peterman on Sunday against the Los Angeles Chargers.
Coach Sean McDermott made the decision Wednesday, three days after Taylor was replaced by Peterman with 4:53 remaining in the 47-10 loss to the New Orleans Saints that dropped the Bills to 5-4. Taylor completed 9 of 18 passes for 56 yards and an interception with a 33.6 passer rating before being benched, which drew cheers from the few remaining home fans.
Peterman, a fifth-round pick, led the Bills on a six-play, 75-yard drive ending in a 7-yard touchdown pass to tight end Nick O‘Leary in Sunday’s game. He finished 7 of 10 for 79 yards in his first NFL regular-season action.
Minnesota Vikings coach Mike Zimmer announced he will stay with quarterback Case Keenum as the starter for Sunday’s game against the Los Angeles Rams.
The move was expected after Keenum threw for 304 yards and a career-high four touchdown passes with two interceptions in leading the Vikings to a 38-30 victory at the Washington Redskins last Sunday for their fifth straight win.
There was speculation Zimmer might turn to former starter Teddy Bridgewater, who was activated to the 53-man roster last week. Bridgewater, who suffered a devastating left knee injury in August 2016 and has not played in a game since, will serve as Keenum’s backup for the second straight week, putting his 2017 debut on hold for now.
Dallas Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott has withdrawn his appeal of his six-game suspension for violating the league’s personal conduct policy, his agents announced in a statement on Wednesday.
Elliott sat out the first game of his suspension in Sunday’s 27-7 loss to the Atlanta Falcons. The 22-year-old will be eligible to return to the Cowboys (5-4) on Christmas Eve against the Seattle Seahawks.
Elliott had his most recent legal motion denied by the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York last Thursday.
NFL commissioner Roger Goodell suspended Elliott for six games on Aug. 11 after a 13-month investigation concluded he was in violation of the league’s personal-conduct policy for an incident in the summer of 2016.
New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady was named AFC Offensive Player of the Week for his three-touchdown performance in the 41-16 victory over the Denver Broncos.
The NFL also announced that Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton earned the NFC offensive honor for Week 10.
Atlanta Falcons defensive end Adrian Clayborn was named the NFC Defensive Player of the Week, while Jacksonville Jaguars cornerback A.J. Bouye took home the AFC defensive award.
The Denver Broncos promoted outside linebacker Deiontrez Mount from their practice squad to the active roster, the team announced.


NEW YORK (Reuters) - A prosecution witness in the corruption trial of three former soccer officials testified on Wednesday that Mexico’s Grupo Televisa and Brazil’s Globo took part in a $15 million bribe to a FIFA executive to secure media rights to the 2026 and 2030 World Cup tournaments.
Alejandro Burzaco, the former head of sports marketing company Torneos y Competencias, testified for a second day in a U.S. court, adding details to Tuesday’s testimony that Televisa, Globo and Fox Sports had been involved in bribery.
In the first trial to be heard in a U.S. investigation of bribery surrounding FIFA, soccer’s world governing body,   Burzaco told jurors in federal court in Brooklyn on Wednesday that Torneos, Televisa and Globo paid the bribe to Julio Humberto Grondona, a FIFA executive who died in 2014.
Burzaco said Torneos and Fox Sports, a unit of Twenty-First Century Fox Inc, were partners in a sports marketing venture, T&T Sports Marketing Ltd.
Fox Sports spokeswoman Terri Hines said Tuesday that the T&T partnership was with a Fox Sports affiliate, Fox Pan American Sports, that was majority-owned by a private equity firm, and that Fox Sports had “no operational control” over T&T.
“Any suggestion that Fox Sports knew of or approved of any bribes is emphatically false,” she said.
Globo said on Tuesday that it “does not practice nor tolerate the payment of bribes,” and would cooperate with U.S. authorities. It could not immediately be reached for comment on Wednesday.
A Televisa spokesman on Wednesday denied “any wrongdoing” in the case. “In particular, Grupo Televisa in no way knew of, or condoned, any bribe or other improper conduct,” spokesman Alejandro Olmos wrote in an email.
The three media companies have not been charged in the U.S. case.
Jorge Delhon, an Argentine lawyer who formerly worked for the government-run soccer television program Futbol Para Todos (Soccer for All), committed suicide late Tuesday, hours after Burzaco testified that he took bribes, Argentine police said.
The three former officials on trial in Brooklyn are Juan Ángel Napout, former president of the South American soccer governing body CONMEBOL and Paraguay’s soccer federation; Manuel Burga, former president of Peru’s soccer federation; and José Maria Marin, former president of Brazil’s soccer federation.
At the end of his testimony on Wednesday, Burzaco said that his company and its partners paid a total of $4.5 million in bribes to Napout, $2.7 million to Marin and $3.6 million to Burga to secure rights for soccer tournaments, and they promised millions more to each in future payments.
In opening statements Monday, their lawyers denied that they took bribes.


(Reuters) - Washington Nationals ace Max Scherzer won his second consecutive Cy Young Award as the National League’s top pitcher on Wednesday while Corey Kluber of the Cleveland Indians took home American League honors.
Scherzer earned 27 of the 30 first-place votes from members of the Baseball Writers’ Association of America to finish ahead of Los Angeles Dodgers left-hander Clayton Kershaw, 201-126.
For Scherzer, who led the NL with 268 strikeouts and ranked second in ERA (2.51) and fourth in wins (16), it marked the third Cy Young Award of his career having also won it in 2003 while playing for the AL’s Detroit Tigers.
Scherzer said he was on “cloud nine” after becoming only the 10th pitcher to win the award at least three times.
“This one is special. When you start talking about winning it three times, I can’t even comprehend it at this point in time,” Scherzer, 33, said on a conference call.
“It’s such an unbelievable feeling and unbelievable moment that you really won’t process it until about a year later, that’s kind of what I found by winning these things.”
Kluber returned from a back injury that limited his starts early in the season and put together a stunning second half to overtake Boston ace Chris Sale in the AL Cy Young Award race to capture the award for the second time in four seasons.
The Indians right-hander led the AL in wins (18) and ERA (2.25) and was rock-solid during his team’s AL record-setting 22-game win streak from late August to mid-September.
He earned 28 of 30 first-place votes for 204 points compared to 136 for Sale, who seemed to be a lock for the award until struggling over the final two months of the season.
Kluber said it was unfair to say if this year’s honor meant more than the one he first earned in 2014 but did acknowledge that a second Cy Young Award does offer benefits.
“For me personally, it kind of validates the first one,” Kluber, 31, told a conference call.
“It’s also just another way to kind of find that reassurance so that when you are going through hard times, or struggling and trying to work your way through things, you always want to have that self-belief to fall back on.”
Major League Baseball’s awards week concludes on Thursday with the Most Valuable Player Award for each league.


(The Sports Xchange) - Washington Nationals ace Max Scherzer earned his third Cy Young Award by beating out teammate Stephen Strasburg and Los Angeles Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw in the voting announced on Wednesday.
Scherzer, who won the American League Cy Young Award in 2013 with the Detroit Tigers, picked up his second National League honor in a row. The 33-year-old went 16-6 with a 2.51 ERA and led the NL with 268 strikeouts in 200 2/3 innings.
Cleveland Indians ace Corey Kluber picked up his second American League Cy Young Award from the Baseball Writers Association of America.
Kluber, who won his first Cy Young Award in 2014, posted an 18-4 mark with a league-leading 2.25 ERA for the AL Central Division champions in 2017. The 31-year-old right-hander paced the AL in WHIP at 0.869 and struck out 265 batters in 203 2/3 innings over 29 starts.
Miami Marlins CEO Derek Jeter said he has yet to speak directly with superstar Giancarlo Stanton in regard to potential trade rumors upon addressing reporters at the general managers meetings in Orlando, Fla.
Jeter also said that it’s not an absolute that Stanton will be wearing another team’s jersey next season.
The Nationals finalized new manager Dave Martinez’s coaching staff, adding Henry Blanco as the bullpen coach.


(The Sports Xchange) - Buffalo Sabres defenseman Marco Scandella was fined $5,000 by the NHL for slashing Pittsburgh Penguins forward Patric Hornqvist during Tuesday’s game.
Scandella, who was fined on Wednesday, was assessed a minor penalty for slashing after the incident occurred at 10:21 of the second period.
The Calgary Flames recalled goaltender Jon Gillies on an emergency basis from the Stockton Heat of the American Hockey League.
The Flames also announced that starting goalie Mike Smith is listed as day to day with an upper-body injury. He left Monday’s 7-4 victory over the St. Louis Blues in the first period.
The Dallas Stars reassigned forward Jason Dickinson to the Texas Stars of the American Hockey League.


NEW YORK (Reuters) - A U.S. judge on Wednesday ordered that a former Peruvian soccer official on trial for corruption in Brooklyn be put under house arrest after prosecutors said he made a threatening gesture at a prosecution witness.
After jurors left for the day, a prosecutor, Assistant U.S. Attorney Kristin Mace, told U.S. District Judge Pamela Chen that Manuel Burga, former president of Peru’s soccer federation, made a “slicing motion across his throat” while looking at Alejandro Burzaco. The witness is testifying for prosecutors in the first trial to emerge from the United States’ sweeping investigation of bribery in international soccer.
Mace said Burga made the gesture once on Tuesday and again on Wednesday morning. The second time, she said, Burzaco, the former head of Argentine sports marketing company Torneos y Competencias, broke down in tears.
Burga’s lawyer, Bruce Udolf, denied the claim.
”This is a gentle, meek, timid man,“ he said of Burga. ”I never saw any indication that he was making any gesture.
Udolf said Burga was rubbing his neck because his skin was irritated, and that Burzaco cried because a man he named in his testimony on Tuesday committed suicide hours later.
Argentine police have said that Jorge Delhon, formerly a lawyer for Argentina’s government-run Futbol Para Todos (Soccer for All) television program, jumped in front of a train.
Chen, however, said Burzaco might have had added reason to fear for his safety after Delhon’s death.
“You can call it a suicide,” she said. “The truth is none of us know that for sure.”
Earlier in the day, Burzaco testified that after he began cooperating with U.S. authorities, his brother told him that Buenos Aires police were instructed to “shut me down.”
He said that meant to do anything to stop him from cooperating, “including killing me.”
Mace said Wednesday evening that there was a video of Burga’s gesture, which was not played in court. Chen said she had watched the video, but that it did not decide the issue.
Chen did not go as far as jailing Burga, as Mace had asked, but barred him from leaving his residence without Udolf and from using a phone or computer.
Burga is on trial alongside Juan Ángel Napout, former president of the South American soccer governing body CONMEBOL and Paraguay’s soccer federation, and José Maria Marin, former president of Brazil’s soccer federation.
Over the course of two days, Burzaco has testified that his company and its partner paid each of them millions of dollars in bribes to secure marketing rights to soccer tournaments, including the Copa America, Copa Libertadores and World Cup.
The defendants’ lawyers said in their opening statements Monday that they did not take bribes.


BUENOS AIRES/NEW YORK (Reuters) - A former Argentine lawyer for a government-run soccer television program ran in front of a Buenos Aires train and committed suicide late on Tuesday, hours after being accused in a New York court of receiving bribes, police said.
Jorge Delhon, attorney for the Futbol Para Todos (Soccer for All) program, received bribes from the end of 2011 to 2014, according to testimony by the former head of sports marketing company Torneos y Competencias, Alejandro Burzaco, as recorded in a court transcript seen by Reuters.
The driver of the train told police a man later identified as Delhon, 50, ran along the tracks in Lanus, Buenos Aires, the local police department said in a statement that called the death a suicide.
The driver honked and tried to brake, but the man was run over, the statement said.
Reuters was unable to reach Delhon’s family for comment or to independently confirm the death was a suicide.
Javier Saldias, a fellow former lawyer for Futbol para Todos who told Reuters he was a friend of Delhon, said Delhon was “a model father. He loved his family.”
Burzaco testified during a U.S. corruption trial of three former soccer officials that major media companies had paid bribes to secure television rights for soccer matches. The testimony came during the first trial to emerge from the U.S. investigation of bribery surrounding FIFA, soccer’s world governing body.
U.S. District Judge Pamela Chen cast doubt on the cause of death during the trial in a Brooklyn federal court on Wednesday.
“You can call it a suicide. The truth is none of us know that for sure,” she said.
In his testimony, Burzaco described bribes paid to several international soccer officials, including former Argentine Football Association president and FIFA executive Julio Humberto Grondona, who died in 2014.
Soccer for All, a free-to-view program created by Argentina’s former President Cristina Fernandez, brought top-flight matches into the households of a soccer-obsessed country and was emblematic of her populist policymaking.
Center-right President Mauricio Macri, a former chairman of top club Boca Juniors who took office in December 2015, made a deal with the local soccer association to rescind the contract as he moved to cut government subsidies.
In March, divisions of U.S. media companies Twenty-First Century Fox Inc and Time Warner Inc won a joint contract to broadcast Argentine soccer matches for five years from next season.


(Reuters) - Diego Maradona criticized the faltering Argentina team on Wednesday and appealed for another chance at managing the national side.
A day after they lost 4-2 to Nigeria in a friendly in Russia, Maradona, who last managed Argentina at the 2010 World Cup, hit out the current set up in a short Instagram message.
“I am angry because they have thrown away our prestige, but it’s not the fault of the lads,” he said. “I WANT TO COME BACK!!!”
Maradona, who is currently coach of United Arab Emirates side Al Fujairah, posted statistics of 11 recent Argentina managers that showed his success rate was 75 percent, greater even than that of Cesar Luis Menotti, who won the World Cup in 1978, and Carlos Bilardo, who lifted the trophy in 1986 when Maradona was at his brilliant playing best.
“Who won most??” Maradona wrote. “We draw our own conclusions.”
The former Boca Juniors and Napoli striker led Argentina to the quarter-finals in South Africa, where they were knocked out by Germany.
Current Argentina coach Jorge Sampaoli has had an inconsistent start to his tenure since taking charge in June, winning four of his first eight games, but only one of four competitive fixtures.
The Argentines only qualified for next year’s World Cup finals thanks to a hat-trick from Lionel Messi in their last game against Ecuador.
(This version of the story changes the host nation of the 2010 World Cup in para 6)


LONDON (Reuters) - Grigor Dimitrov stopped listening to the Roger Federer comparisons years ago but produced tennis the Swiss maestro would have been proud of to destroy David Goffin and reach the semi-finals of the ATP Finals on Wednesday.
The 26-year-old has not always handled the expectations placed on his shoulders after he won the Wimbledon junior title in 2008 with a game style uncannily like Federer‘s.
But after qualifying for the ATP Finals for the first time having climbed to a career-high sixth in the world, Dimitrov is starting to revel on the sport’s biggest stages.
His 6-0 6-2 thrashing of Belgium’s Goffin in the O2 Arena followed Monday’s tense three-set win over Dominic Thiem when he became the first Bulgarian to take part in the elite tournament for the top eight players in its 48-year history.
Goffin, another first-time qualifier, battled to victory against hobbling world number one Rafael Nadal on Monday, but was powerless to stop Dimitrov in full flow.
Despite Wednesday’s defeat, Goffin will face Thiem on Friday for a place in the semi-finals after the Austrian beat Pablo Carreno Busta, who was drafted into the draw following Nadal’s withdrawal, 6-3 3-6 6-4.
When Dimitrov led 6-0 3-0 and 30-0 on the Goffin serve it seemed he would match one of the myriad records Federer holds - the only “double-bagel” victory achieved in the tournament.
Six-times ATP Finals champion Federer, who reached the last four on Tuesday, beat then French Open champion Gaston Gaudio 6-0 6-0 in 2005 when the event was held in Shanghai.
Goffin avoided that humiliation, holding serve in the 10th game, but the cheers that accompanied that feat were out of sympathy not expectation that a contest might be about to start.
He managed another game but Dimitrov, who claimed his first ATP Masters 1000 title in Cincinnati this year and reached the Australian Open semi-finals, was on another level.
He won 12 of the first 15 points, struck 18 winners, won 72 percent of his service points and only faced one break point.
“I was just thinking, there are only a few days in the year when everything you touch turns to gold and that was the first set,” Dimitrov said.
“But I work for those days. And when it comes on such an occasion, it’s special. ”My movement was great, I was reading the game really well and believing in my shots.
“The next thing you know the match is over.”
Goffin wore tape on his left knee but declared himself 100 percent fit.
“It was just a tough, tough match against Grigor who played really well. It’s life,” the world number eight said.
Thiem was dragged into a final set for a second successive match but made sure this time he would be the one holding aloft his arms in victory after firing down his 12th ace to end Carreno Busta’s hopes of advancing any further in the event.


(Reuters) - List of countries assured of places in the 32-team field for next year’s World Cup finals in Russia after Australia secured their spot on Wednesday:
Russia (Qualified as hosts)
France
Portugal
Germany
Serbia
Poland
England
Spain
Belgium
Iceland
Switzerland
Croatia
Sweden
Denmark
Brazil
Uruguay
Argentina
Colombia
Nigeria
Egypt
Morocco
Tunisia
Senegal
Mexico
Costa Rica
Panama
Iran
Japan
South Korea
Saudi Arabia
Australia
Second leg
Nov 15
Peru v New Zealand (0-0), Lima


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Hockey League games on Tuesday:
Wild 3, Flyers 0
Goalie Devan Dubnyk’s career- and franchise-record shutout streak continued on Tuesday as the Minnesota Wild beat the Philadelphia Flyers 3-0.
Dubnyk stopped all 30 shots he faced for his third consecutive shutout, running his streak without giving up a goal to 195:05. Dubnyk has now stopped the past 106 shots he has faced.
Left winger Nino Niederreiter scored on Minnesota’s first shot of the game. Eric Staal and Jason Zucker added empty-net goals as the Wild ran their winning streak to three in a row.
Niederreiter, playing in his 400th career NHL game, ripped a low wrist shot past Elliott just 12 seconds into the game. Zucker was on the ice for the goal, but did not score it, breaking a streak of six straight Minnesota goals he had scored over the previous three games.
Oilers 8, Golden Knights 2
Ryan Nugent-Hopkins and Connor McDavid each scored twice in Edmonton’s easy victory over Vegas.
Oscar Klefbom, Patrick Maroon, Matt Benning and Mark Letestu added goals as the lowest-scoring team in the NHL erupted for a season-high goal total in winning at home for only the fourth time in 10 games. Cam Talbot made 22 saves for the Oilers.
The Knights came into Edmonton with only two wins in their previous seven games (2-4-1) and their No. 4 goaltender Maxime Lagace, who gave up seven goals on 29 shots.
Junior goalie Dylan Ferguson, on an emergency call-up, allowed a goal and made a save in the last nine minutes.
Penguins 5, Sabres 4 (overtime)
Conor Sheary scored his second goal of the game 16 seconds into overtime as Pittsburgh continued its domination of Buffalo.
The Penguins have a 13-game point streak against the Sabres, who have not won against Pittsburgh since April 23, 2013.
Sidney Crosby ended an 11-game goal drought, while Phil Kessel and Patrick Hornqvist also scored for the Penguins. Matt Murray made 28 saves.
Jack Eichel halted an eight-game goal drought for Buffalo. Sam Reinhart had a goal and two assists, and Evander Kane and Benoit Pouliot also scored for the Sabres. Robin Lehner stopped 40 shots.
Predators 6, Capitals 3
Filip Forsberg scored his 100th career goal as part of Nashville’s four-goal second period in its fifth straight victory.
Forsberg snapped a five-game goal-less drought on a wrister that hit off a defender’s skate and skittered by Braden Holtby at 6:45 for his ninth goal. It occurred 17 seconds after Alex Chiasson tied the score at 2 with a sizzling one-timer for his second goal of the year.
The teams combined for five goals in a 4:52 stretch of the period, with Washington’s T.J. Oshie netting two to bring the Capitals within 4-3. Miikka Salomaki and Mattias Ekholm, though, restored control for the Predators.
Blue Jackets 2, Canadiens 1 (OT)
Zach Werenski’s goal at 1:09 of overtime gave Columbus a victory over Montreal.
Josh Anderson also scored for the Blue Jackets and Sergei Bobrovsky made 28 saves, including a pair of spectacular ones. Columbus has won consecutive games for the first time since Nov. 2 and were 0-3-1 before defeating Detroit in a shootout Saturday.
Paul Byron scored for the Canadiens and Charlie Lindgren made 23 saves.
Canucks 3, Kings 2
Sven Baertschi broke a 2-2 tie with a power-play goal at 4:07 of the third period as Vancouver handed Los Angeles its third straight loss and fourth in a row at home.
Henrik Sedin and Bo Horvat also scored for the Canucks, Derrick Pouliot had two assists and Anders Nilsson made 30 saves in his first appearance since Oct. 26.
Tanner Pearson and Anze Kopitar scored in the first 3:14 to give the Kings a 2-0 lead, and Los Angeles outshot the Canucks 7-0 through the initial 9 1/2 minutes. The Kings came in with the No. 1 penalty-kill unit in the NHL at 91.9 percent, but the Canucks went 2-for-3 on the power play after coming in 2-for-21 over their past six games.
Panthers 4, Stars 3 (shootout)
Aleksander Barkov and Vincent Trocheck scored in the shootout to lift Florida over Dallas.
Jonathan Huberdeau, who missed practice Monday because of an illness, scored two power-play goals for the Panthers. Roberto Luongo, Florida’s 38-year-old goalie who is fourth on the NHL career wins list with 456, made 40 saves.
Jamie Benn scored twice for the Stars, who have lost four of their past six games. Alexander Radulov picked up two assists and has at least one point in nine consecutive games.
Jets 4, Coyotes 1
Connor Hellebuyck stopped 33 shots as Winnipeg defeated Arizona.
Andrew Copp, Joel Armia, Bryan Little and Adam Lowry scored for the Jets, who won for the third time in four games.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian sports minister Pavel Kolobkov said on Wednesday the country has done everything in its power to have its anti-doping agency (RUSADA) reinstated after it was suspended over allegations of state-sponsored doping.
RUSADA has been suspended since a World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) report in 2015 found evidence of state-sponsored doping and accused it of enabling rather than catching drug cheats.
WADA Director General Olivier Niggli told Reuters last week Russia’s refusal to accept responsibility could prevent its athletes from taking part in the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea.
WADA, which allowed RUSADA to plan and coordinate testing under international supervision in June, is set to address the agency’s compliance with international standards at its executive committee and Foundation Board meetings on Wednesday and Thursday.
“We really have done everything possible for RUSADA to retrieve its status,” R-Sport news agency quoted Kolobkov as saying.
“Now our colleagues need to evaluate this and make a decision in line with the interests of the entire sports movement. In any case we are continuing our work to clear the name of Russian sport.”
One of the conditions for RUSADA’s reinstatement requires Russian authorities, including the Ministry of Sport and National Olympic Committee, to publicly accept the findings of the McLaren investigation.
A 2016 report by Canadian lawyer Richard McLaren found that more than 1,000 Russian competitors in more than 30 sports were involved in a conspiracy to conceal positive drug tests over a five-year period.
WADA said last week that it had obtained a database that confirmed allegations of widespread state-sponsored doping in Russia made in the McLaren report.
Despite repeated calls for cooperation with international bodies to help rid Russia of doping, the authorities have never acknowledged any state involvement in the scandal.
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) banned six cross-country skiers this month as part of an investigation into allegations of doping among Russians and sample-tampering by laboratory and security officials at the 2014 Sochi Games.
The IOC has said it would decide at its executive board meeting next month on the participation of Russian competitors at Pyeongchang.
Russia escaped a blanket ban at the 2016 Rio Olympics but it remains barred from competing at international athletics events.


(Reuters) - PGA Tour player Grayson Murray has apologized for questioning the relevance of the 50-and-over Champions Tour.
Murray’s mea culpa on Tuesday came less than two days after he criticized the senior circuit on Twitter following the final round of the Champions Tour season.
The senior season ended with questions over its ranking system when Bernhard Langer was beaten for the season-long Charles Schwab Cup by Kevin Sutherland, even though the German dominated 2017 with seven victories, including three majors.
Langer won nearly twice as much prize money as Sutherland, but a points system modeled on the PGA Tour FedExCup allowed the American to claim the Charles Schwab Cup ranking.
Sutherland’s victory on Sunday was his first since the 2002 World Golf Championships Match Play.
“Does anyone really care is the real question... These guys were relevant 10-plus years ago,” Murray tweeted, according to Golf.com, before adding that current 40-somethings Tiger Woods, Phil Mickelson and Jim Furyk would never play the senior tour.
Murray subsequently deleted the tweets after coming under fire from the likes of dual major champions Curtis Strange and John Daly.
“Respect those who paved the way,” tweeted Strange.
“It’s sad,” Daly added in a tweet.
Murray backtracked on his stance in a subsequent tweet.
“I want to apologize to the tour and the guys on the Champions Tour. I have nothing but respect for the guys that paved my way to play this game. I‘m sorry to everyone I disrespected and I take full responsibility for my actions.”
Murray’s latest dip into hot water comes less than two weeks after he returned to Twitter following a six-month hiatus that followed previous comments that riled his peers.
The 24-year-old posted his first PGA Tour victory at the Barbasol Championship in July.


(Reuters) - Former world number one Andy Murray has had no adverse reaction to his recent charity game against Roger Federer and assistant coach Jamie Delgado is confident he will be able to get back to his best after a hip injury brought an early end to his season.
Murray, who has been out of action since losing to Sam Querrey in the Wimbledon semi-finals, is targeting a return to competitive action early next year with a view to competing at the Australian Open.
The Scot has plummeted to 16th in the rankings -- his lowest position for nine years -- and began his comeback with a charity game against Federer in Glasgow last week.
“His body recovered well after that ... we are confident and hopeful that he will be back to his best,” Delgado told Sky Sports.
”We are in the process now of getting ready for a few weeks ... to get a pre-season block together... get some good players to practice with and pick up that level.
“The plan is to start in Brisbane in the first week of the year, ... there is a week’s gap between that and the Australian Open,” the coach added.
Delgado said Murray’s spirits were lifted after meeting his fellow professionals in London and that the 30-year-old had missed being on the road while recovering.
”It was great to be back and see all the guys again and also to give him the feel of coming to a tennis event. He hasn’t been to one for a few months.
“He is missing that a lot. He will need that, practicing with those guys over the next couple of months to get him ready for next year.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights from National Basketball Association games on Tuesday:
Celtics 109, Nets 102
A masked Kyrie Irving scored 25 points as the Boston Celtics ran their winning streak to 13 games with a 109-102 victory over the Brooklyn Nets.
Irving was considered questionable for the game after taking an inadvertent elbow from team mate Aron Baynes 1:50 into Friday’s game against Charlotte.
He missed Boston’s 12th straight win on Sunday against the Toronto Raptors but returned with a protective mask over his face, shot 8-of-20 in 29 minutes and helped Boston finish off its latest win.
Marcus Morris added 21 points 10 rebounds while Al Horford bagged 17 points and 11 rebounds for his fifth double-double of the season.
Rookie Jayson Tatum added 19 points and Jaylen Brown chipped in 14 for the Celtics, who are on their first 13-game winning streak since winning 14 straight from Nov. 22 to Dec. 22, 2010.
Reserve Joe Harris led the Nets with 19 points while Rondae Hollis-Jefferson added 16.
Raptors 129, Rockets 113
DeMar DeRozan scored a team-high 27 points as Toronto ended Houston’s six-game winning streak.
Kyle Lowry and C.J. Miles scored 19 points apiece for Toronto, with the latter drilling 6-of-9 three-pointers off the bench.
Houston sliced a 20-point deficit to 108-103 midway through the fourth quarter but followed with a string of turnovers that fueled another Raptors run to a double-digit lead.
James Harden paced Houston with 38 points and 11 assists.
Spurs 97, Mavericks 91
LaMarcus Aldridge scored a season-high 32 points and Patty Mills also hit a season-high 19 to lead San Antonio past Dallas.
The Spurs, still playing without Kawhi Leonard and Tony Parker, took a 34-31 lead with about eight minutes to go in the second quarter and managed to hold on the rest of the way. The Spurs have won five of their past six games.
The Mavs, who dropped to 2-13, shot below 35 percent for most of the game and finished just 10-of-34 from beyond the three-point arc.


(Reuters) - U.S. Masters champion Sergio Garcia will use a new ball and clubs at this week’s DP World Tour Championship in Dubai after parting company with the TaylorMade equipment company.
TaylorMade announced last week that it was splitting with the Spaniard, who on Tuesday said he was leaning towards signing with Callaway, whose gear he will use during the European Tour’s season-ending event at Jumeirah Golf Estates.
“(I) spent 15 years with TaylorMade, but unfortunately things come to an end,” Garcia said ahead of Thursday’s opening round.
”It wasn’t only my decision... I guess all companies change, and the politics with TaylorMade have changed now after leaving Adidas.
“We couldn’t come to an agreement. So I understand that it’s also difficult when you have so many top players, to keep all of them.”
Adidas announced in May that it was selling TaylorMade to KPS Capital Partners.
TaylorMade earlier this year signed Tiger Woods and Rory McIlroy, the two biggest names in world golf. Other TaylorMade players include world number one Dustin Johnson and former number one Jason Day.
After 22 previous top-10 finishes in the grand slam events, the 37-year-old Garcia finally broke his major duck when he beat Justin Rose in a playoff at Augusta National in April.
The Spaniard said adjusting to a new ball was more difficult than the transition to new clubs.
“What we’ve been testing, the numbers have been really good with the balls that Callaway has brought to me,” he said.
”Now it’s just a matter of trying it on the golf course and trying it in tournament play, and seeing how it reacts and seeing how it feels.
“Then if there’s any changes that need to be made, then we have time in the off-season to get it sorted out.”


(The Sports Xchange) - The Los Angeles Kings acquired forward Jussi Jokinen from the Edmonton Oilers in exchange for forward Michael Cammalleri on Tuesday.
Jokinen, 34, has played in 14 games with the Oilers this year, recording an assist and two penalty minutes. He carries a $1.1 million cap hit.
Cammalleri, 35, appeared in 15 games this season with the Kings, scoring three goals. He carries a $1 million cap hit.
The Montreal Canadiens claimed goaltender Antti Niemi off waivers.
The Canadiens’ goaltending carousel has been in constant rotation this season as former Hart and Vezina Trophy winner Carey Price has been nursing a lower-body injury while backup Al Montoya is sidelined due to a concussion.
Rookie Charlie Lindgren (3-1-0, 1.24 goals-against average) has fared well in their absence, but Montreal general manager Marc Bergevin saw an opportunity with Niemi.
Niemi, 34, has struggled this season, however, posting an 0-4-0 mark in five appearances with the Pittsburgh Penguins and Florida Panthers.
The Tampa Bay Lightning acquired goaltender Louis Domingue from the Arizona Coyotes for goaltender Michael Leighton and forward Tye McGinn, the teams announced.
Domingue has been mired in a disastrous season with the sputtering Coyotes, posting an 0-6-0 mark with a 4.33 goals-against average and .856 save percentage.
Leighton has not played in the NHL this season. The 36-year-old owns a 37-43-4 mark with a 2.96 goals-against average.
McGinn, who suited up for 18 games with the Coyotes in 2014-15, last played in the NHL during the 2015-16 season.
The Nashville Predators placed left wing Scott Hartnell and defenseman Yannick Weber on injured reserve, the team announced.
Hartnell will be out three to five weeks with a lower-body injury while Weber is expected to be sidelined two to four weeks with a lower-body ailment.
Hartnell, who signed a one-year, $1 million contract in July, has collected four goals and three assists through 16 games this season.
Weber has notched two assists in 12 games this season on the heels of signing a one-year, $650,000 contract in June.
The Washington Capitals assigned center Tyler Graovac to Hershey of the American Hockey League on a long-term conditioning loan, the team announced.
Graovac sustained an upper-body injury versus the Toronto Maple Leafs on Oct. 17. The 24-year-old Ontario native did not record a point in three games with Washington this season.


LONDON (Reuters) - Roger Federer marched into the semi-finals at the ATP Finals once again on Tuesday but he made hard work of the task before finally prevailing 7-6(6) 5-7 6-1 in a high-quality battle of the generations with Germany’s Alexander Zverev.
The 36-year-old six-times champion may have been giving away 16 years to the youngster fancied to be the game’s next major force but Federer proved in a dominant third set that, for the moment, he still remains a cut above his young pursuers.
The triumph in two hours and 11 minutes ensured the 19-times grand slam champion booked a place in the last four for the 14th time in 15 appearances and with the tournament still only three days old.
It also meant that Zverev and Jack Sock will now meet on Thursday to decide the other qualifier from the Boris Becker group.
Sock earlier lived up to his childhood nickname of “Showtime” by producing a dramatic comeback triumph 5-7 6-2 7-6(4) over the erratic Marin Cilic, who is now eliminated after two straight defeats.
World number two Federer looks even more of an overwhelming favorite for a seventh crown in the absence of Rafael Nadal, who has pulled out injured from the tournament.
“It sounds great,” Federer told the O2 Arena crowd after being told of his record of 14 semi-final appearances.
He had high praise for 20-year-old Zverev, too, after being tested for two fierce sets before finally dismantling the increasingly weary-looking world number three.
“I‘m very excited for his future. He’s a wonderful guy and a great, great player.”
With no classic Nadal clash on the horizon, the duel between Federer and Zverev, who had shared the spoils in their previous four meetings, was the most eagerly anticipated of the week.
It did not disappoint, with Federer immediately forced to save three break points to rescue the opening game and Zverev also digging deep to save one in the next.
Zverev’s immaculate serving kept Federer at bay despite the master testing the apprentice with the variety and mixed pace of his shotmaking.
At 6-5 down, the German saved the second of two set points in the flukiest fashion, his backhand limping off the top of the net for an outright winner.
In a tight tiebreak, Federer came back from a shaky start at 4-0 down and rescued a set point of his own before cashing in on Zverev errors and testing the youngster’s patience until it cracked in a long rally.
When Federer cruised to a 2-0 lead in the second set for the loss of just a point, it seemed a quick kill was on the cards but two double faults in a poor service game saw Zverev back in the contest.
Looking increasingly irritated as his first serve percentage dipped to an alarming 43 percent, the misfiring Federer was broken again at 5-6 as Zverev leveled the match.
Yet the German’s own serve, hitherto a huge weapon, also began to malfunction in the final set as Federer found a new gear.
The toll of being pulled around the court by the Swiss’s variety in pace and angles began to tell on Zverev.
It evidently felt satisfying for Federer to beat one of the game’s new comets. Asked if he could remember his first ATP Finals, he smiled: “It’s so long ago I hardly remember it!”


LONDON (Reuters) - Roger Federer has paid a glowing tribute to Alexander Zverev, hailing the 20-year-old German as having the “full package” of skills and resolve to lead tennis’s youthful revolution.
Zverev offered a stern challenge before finally succumbing to Federer, a man 16 years his senior, at the ATP Finals in an absorbing three-setter on Tuesday.
Federer has lost twice to Zverev on tour, and once in the Hopman Cup, and believes the German will be a major threat to the game’s elite for years to come -- and perhaps to him again even as early as Sunday.
With one win and one loss at the O2 Arena, Zverev could still feature in the other half of the draw to Federer in Saturday’s semi-finals should he prevail in the winner-takes-all clash with Jack Sock on Thursday.
Federer said he was impressed not only with how the world number three plays the game but also with how he is looking further down the line to plan for his future in tennis.
“I like what I‘m seeing in ‘Sascha,'” Federer told reporters after his 7-6(6) 5-7 6-1 victory.
“I see somebody who is working toward the future. What I like to see is I feel like he’s working toward how he could be playing when he’s 23, 24 in terms of his fitness, planning, organization, all these things.”
While mentioning Zverev’s name alongside that of 22-year-old Nick Kyrgios and 18-year-old Canadian Denis Shapovalov as youthful players who impressed him, Federer added: ”What I like about Zverev is he’s got the full package.
“He’s already three in the world. I think he’s going to leave the Finals here, regardless of whether he qualifies for the semis or not, with a lot of information.”
Zverev could not manage to repeat August’s Canadian Open victory over an injury-hampered Federer, which stands as the 19-time grand slam winner’s only defeat in a final in 2017 and his only loss to a fellow top-10 player all year.
“But I think the last six months of the season have given him everything he needs to work forward to,” said Federer. “Then, of course, he’s only going to get stronger from here. This should be very encouraging for him and his team.”
Only Federer and Rafael Nadal have won more than Zverev’s five titles this season and the youngster said he felt, even in defeat, he had taken another significant step forward.
“It was a very positive match for me,” said the man from Hamburg. “I think if I continue having this level, I don’t know, maybe you’ll see me at the weekend.”


PRAGUE (Reuters) - Czech Davis Cup winner Radek Stepanek announced his retirement from tennis on Tuesday after failing to recover his fitness following back surgery earlier this year, Czech media reported.
The 38-year-old Stepanek won five ATP singles titles and reached the Wimbledon quarter-finals in 2006 when he reached a career-high eighth in the world rankings.
The following year a back injury threatened his career but Stepanek battled back and won two grand slam double titles with India’s Leander Paes, the Australian Open in 2012 and the U.S. Open a year later.
Alongside Tomas Berdych, Stepanek was also part of the Davis Cup teams triumphed in 2012 and 2013.
Stepanek had hoped to make another comeback after undergoing back surgery but that dream was never realized.
“I had to be realistic. I fought till the last breath but it is time to move on,” Stepanek was quotes as saying on  www.idnes.cz website.


NEW YORK (Reuters) - Two college basketball coaches on Tuesday pleaded not guilty to fraud charges filed in New York federal court after a two-year probe of claims that promising players were bribed to enroll at schools sponsored by apparel maker Adidas AG.
Chuck Person, a now-suspended assistant coach at Auburn University and former National Basketball Association player, and Rashan Michel, a former NBA official and clothing store owner, pleaded not guilty to charges of conspiracy to commit bribery and fraud, among others, according to federal prosecutors and an attorney for Michel.
Representatives for Person did not immediately respond to  requests for comment.
In September, prosecutors said they uncovered two major schemes, including one in which apparel executives, financial advisers and others bribed assistant college coaches to influence sought-after players to join them and retain their services.
The charges reflect what prosecutors called the “criminal influence of money” on National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball and the conflicts that could arise from the drive to win and the need to provide student-athletes an education.
Person, 53, was charged with receiving $91,500 in bribe payments in exchange for steering elite Auburn University players to certain financial advisers and agents. The payments were initially arranged by Michel, 43, who had a close relationship with Person, prosecutors contend.
It was not immediately clear how much money Michel is alleged to have received in bribe payments.
In the second scheme, prosecutors say high school-aged players and their families were allegedly bribed by James Gatto, a senior executive at German sportswear supplier Adidas, and Merl Code, a person affiliated with the company, to enroll prospective players at colleges that were sponsored by the athletic brand. The two men were also charged in the corruption probe.
Adidas officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Tuesday.
The other coaches charged are Anthony Bland, from the University of Southern California; Lamont Evans, from Oklahoma State University and formerly the University of South Carolina; and Emanuel “Book” Richardson, from the University of Arizona.
That group is due to appear in court on Wednesday.
Person and Michel were charged with multiple counts, including bribery conspiracy, solicitation of bribes, honest service fraud, wire fraud and travel act offenses. If convicted, each faces up to 80 years in prison.


BRUSSELS (Reuters) - European Union antitrust regulators are set to back speed skaters who want to compete in new money-spinning events outside the control of the sport’s governing body, two sources familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.
The European Commission’s move could impact other sports and become as important a milestone as the landmark 1995 court ruling involving Belgian soccer player Jean-Marc Bosman, which paved the way for the free movement of players in the EU.
The ruling could set a precedent that would make it easier for unofficial and ‘breakaway’ events and competitions set up without the approval of a sports’ governing body.
The Commission ruling, which is expected by the end of November or early December, is likely to order the International Skating Union (ISU) to amend its system of penalties, which include lifetime bans for competing in unauthorized events, the sources told Reuters.
The Lausanne-based ISU found itself in the EU competition enforcer’s crosshairs two years ago after Dutch Olympic speed skaters Mark Tuitert and Niels Kerstholt raised grievances after being put off competing in lucrative Ice Derby events run by a South Korean company by threats of a lifetime ban.
“The eligibility rules reveal a manifest conflict of interest between the ISU’s regulatory and commercial functions,” said Ben Van Rompuy, the lawyer for the skaters and a lecturer in competition law at Leiden University in the Netherlands.
“We are eagerly awaiting the Commission’s decision and we are confident that it will set an important precedent to the benefit of European athletes in numerous sports,” he said.
Both the EU’s competition enforcer and the ISU, which has previously said such an approach could destroy the Olympic values underpinning sport, declined to comment on the matter.
In its 2016 charge sheet, the Commission said the ISU’s penalties, which range from five-year to lifetime bans, were anti-competitive because they were disproportionately punitive, restricted the athletes’ commercial freedom and prevented new entrant organizers.
James Ogilvie, an EU political and regulatory affairs consultant with expertise in global football, said the case could have repercussions well beyond skating.
”What we are seeing across many professional sports, but in professional football most prominently, is the gradual erosion of the quasi-monopolistic federation-confederation model and an increasing ‘free-marketisation’ of the organization of professional sports competitions.
”This happened because of ‘super-club power’ in the case of Champions League reform last year, after top clubs successfully leveraged a bigger share of the broadcast revenue pie from UEFA against a backdrop of publicity around privately-backed, well-funded and theoretically-advanced breakaway competitions.
“Now, in the ISU case, it is ‘regulator power’ that has the potential to set a precedent that will further the erosion of international federations’ power and ‘open the market’ of sports competition organization far beyond skating,” he added.
In an indication of the wider potential impact of the ruling, International Olympic Committee president Thomas Bach called in June for the protection of what he called the ‘European sports model’.
“Our concern stems from the fact that a purely market-based approach to sport organizations would ignore the social contribution of sport to help achieve objectives of common interest,” said Bach who argued that federations were investing in youth activities.
Bach called on the Commission to “safeguard the volunteer engagement and to protect the European Model of Sport, rather than destroying it by applying the same rules as it does for industries, like car manufacturing or steel production”.


WOKING, England (Reuters) - McLaren’s next Formula One simulator driver could be a man who has never driven a car before, let alone competed on a real racetrack.
The 12-man shortlist for the job includes a Danish doctor who races on an iPad, a 41-year-old French father of two and a 23-year-old employee of Britain’s Department of Work and Pensions -- who holds only a provisional license
McLaren, the team of double world champion Fernando Alonso and past greats like Ayrton Senna and Alain Prost, are looking to tap talent from virtual racing to go faster in the real world.
The finals of the “World’s Fastest Gamer” competition are playing out at McLaren’s Woking headquarters this week and the winner will get a one-year contract to work in one of the team’s state-of-the-art simulators.
Some, like Dutch 23-year-old Bono Huis who collected a $200,000 jackpot in January after winning a virtual race between gamers and drivers of the Formula E electric series, are known names.
Others, like Danish doctor Henrik Christian Drue or French  dad David Le Garff, are not. And nor is British civil servant Harry Jacks, who has yet to drive a real car.
McLaren say this is a serious search for someone who can become a real asset to a team fighting their way back from troubled times. They also feel the appointment will be good for business.
“We’re very committed to eSports,” says executive director Zak Brown, whose team recently became the first to appoint a  director of eSports.
“For our entire marketing department, our technical team, it is another form of motorsport for McLaren. So we’re taking it very seriously. We’re very committed to it,” the American told reporters.
“We’re finding a lot of our partners...want to cross over and are very relevant to the eSport space. So we’re finding a lot of commercial interest in it.”
Formula One launched its own eSport world championship this year, with the finals scheduled for Abu Dhabi next week, but the McLaren competition is multi-dimensional.
Gamers are subjected to fitness and mental assessments as well as racing virtually on a variety of tracks from Indianapolis to Interlagos.
The competition is the brainchild of Darren Cox, whose Nissan GT Academy initiative took gamers out into the real racetrack with professional works drives, and taps into a demographic that Formula One has targeted.
“The average fan of motorsport and F1 is getting older,” said Cox.
“The audience for this, both in terms of the content and the competitors, is exactly where Formula One and other motorsports need to be. It’s that genius millennial demographic that everyone’s looking for and can’t find.”
The McLaren competition has shown also that reality and the virtual world are not so far apart. Formula One drivers Lewis Hamilton and Max Verstappen would not be surprised to see Britons and Dutch racers making up five of the final 12.
There are no women, as on the real Formula One grid, even if the virtual world should offer a level playing field for the sexes without any physical constraints. That is something organizers hope to change with time.
“There are a lot of female gamers. If you actually look at casual gaming, it is 50-50. It absolutely mirrors the population,” said Cox.
”Like in normal sport, it’s all about the amount of time you spend doing it. These guys are spending six to eight hours a day, six days a week, trying to be the best online gamer. At the moment there isn’t that big group of female gamers doing that.
“Somewhere in the region of 85 percent of people that play racing games are male. So therefore you have a bigger talent pool effectively.”


ROME (Reuters) - Italians, who consider a spot in the World Cup finals a virtual birthright, slumped into collective despair on Tuesday after the national team failed to win a place among soccer’s elite for the first time in 60 years.
“Disaster”, “nightmare”, “humiliation”, were just a few of the words splashed across the front pages of Italy’s newspapers to describe the shock of the team’s elimination at the hands of a little-fancied Sweden on Monday in Milan.
“Apocalypse Azzurra,” said the headline of La Stampa newspaper, referring to the unofficial name of the team whose bright blue jerseys reflect the azure of the Mediterranean Sea.
Italy have played in the last 14 World Cup finals, winning two of them. In all, they have triumphed four times, a tally only exceeded by Brazil, who have won five times. Italy are the only former champions not to make it to next year’s finals.
“This is disgusting, the World Cup can’t exist without Italy. It just can’t exist,” said Francesco Macella, who had watched in the San Siro stadium as Italy drew 0-0 with Sweden to lose the two-leg clash 1-0 on aggregate.
Every four years, Italy has come together over the World Cup, putting aside its historic city-state rivalries to become a united nation for a brief moment in time, cheering on all the players regardless if they came from Milan, Rome or Naples.
“We have failed and at a social level this could have been so important,” said Italy’s storied goalkeeper, Gigi Buffon, in a tearful interview minutes after the final whistle on Monday, recognizing the broader significance of the national team.
While newspapers laid the blame squarely on team coach Gian Piero Ventura and soccer federation chief Carlo Tavecchio, some fans thought the failure reflected wider problems.
“This match mirrors our country which is falling apart,” said a disappointed Stefano Martufello as he left the San Siro.
Italy is slowly recovering from a prolonged recession, but most people say they see no sign of the pick-up, with wages stagnant and unemployment stuck above 11 percent.
Matteo Salvini, head of the anti-immigrant Northern League, looked to score quick political points, blaming Italy’s upset on the large number of foreign players in domestic leagues.
“There are too many foreigners on (our) pitches, from youth teams to Serie A and this is the result. #STOPTHEINVASION.” he said on Twitter. Transfermarkt website said 53.3 percent of Serie A players were foreigners compared with 42.8 percent in Spain’s Lingam but 67.2 percent in England’s Premier League.
Former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, who heads the ruling Democratic Party, dismissed Salvini as an opportunist, saying his argument was “ridiculous”. But in a statement, he still urged that Italian soccer be “totally rebuilt”.
“Not taking part in the Russia World Cup is an enormous slap in the face. Let’s make sure this helps us undertake radical change, immediately,” he said.
Newspapers estimated missing the Cup would cost Italy’s soccer authorities and media companies some 100 million euros  ($117.5 million) in lost revenues. Shares in RCS Mediagroup, which publishes sport daily La Gazzetta dello Sport, dropped 7 percent due to the fall in anticipated circulation next year.
Italy last won the World Cup in 2006, but exited at the group stage in 2010 and 2014. This latest setback showed how far the team has drifted from its peak, belying the widespread expectation that it would have eased past Sweden.
“For years I’ve had this feeling that Italian football is a little like Italy itself, which lives a lot in the past when the reality is that it finds itself dealing with things that are quite intense, even shocking,” said Matteo Maragnano, peeling oranges in a cafe near Milan’s gothic cathedral.
Grasping for silver linings, commentators recognized that the current Italian team would not have got very far in Russia.
“The only consolation is that we would have made utter fools of ourselves at the finals,” La Stampa said.


BELGRADE (Reuters) - Brazil are among the favorites for next year’s World Cup in Russia and Neymar can lead the South American nation to their sixth title, former winner Roberto Carlos said on Tuesday.
The 44-year old former left back, who helped Brazil win the 2002 World Cup as well as Copa America titles in 1997 and 1999, also believed that the country has recovered from a humiliating 7-1 semi-final defeat by Germany as the 2014 tournament’s hosts.
“The team has been reorganized since the debacle against Germany and we also have a new coach in Tite, hence I am confident the situation has vastly improved,” he told a news conference in Serbia’s capital.
”We have world class players and team leaders in Neymar, Willian and Thiago Silva. They are experienced and I am confident that Brazil have it in them to win the World Cup.
“As a Brazilian, naturally I want Brazil to win the World Cup. But (world champions) Germany, Spain and Argentina will also be among the top favorites and it will take a lot of hard work to capture the title.”
Carlos, an ambassador for La Liga’s Real Madrid, said that Neymar was right to move from Barcelona to Paris St Germain during the close season and believed the talented forward would shine in Russia next year.
“I expect Neymar to become the world’s best player very soon,” he said.
”There is a lot of debate going on whether he should have moved to Paris St Germain from Barcelona and I think he did the right thing.
”It was his personal decision and I think it will be easier for him to flourish at PSG, whereas that was more complicated with Lionel Messi at Barcelona or would have been at Real Madrid with Cristiano Ronaldo. At PSG, he is the benchmark.
“He is a great person too, I am in touch with him regularly and I am also convinced he will have an outstanding World Cup.”
Carlos, who spent a single season at Inter Milan in 1995-96 before moving to Real where he won four La Liga titles and three Champions League trophies, said Italy needed to “start from scratch” after failing to qualify for the World Cup.
The Italians, beaten by Sweden 1-0 on aggregate after Monday’s 0-0 draw in Milan, will miss out on the finals for the first time since 1958.
“That’s football and it only shows that many teams have improved and caught up with those at the top level,” he said.
“Italy have to reorganize and go back to the drawing board. It’s easy to pile the criticism on them now but I don’t think that’s the right course of action.”


HONG KONG (Reuters) - Hundreds of Hong Kong soccer fans booed and jeered the Chinese national anthem at an Asia Cup qualifier match on Tuesday in defiance of Communist Party rulers in Beijing.
The booing of the anthem, “The March of the Volunteers”, has become a fixture at football matches in the Chinese-ruled territory, with some parallels to protests in the United States where American football players have knelt during the national anthem, an act denounced by U.S. President Donald Trump.
Now the former British colony is preparing to introduce a law that will penalize people who boo the anthem, a measure that critics say undermines the city’s autonomy and freedoms guaranteed when it returned to China 20 years ago.
Details of the law, including jail terms and the scope of enforcement, have yet to be set. China extended the law to cover Hong Kong earlier this month.
Chinese President Xi Jinping in recent years has ushered in new legislation aimed at securing the country from threats both within and outside its borders, besides presiding over a sweeping crackdown on dissent and free speech.
Chinese officials have said the anthem law is necessary to safeguard the authority of the state.
Several hundred fans greeted the anthem before the match against Lebanon with jeers and boos, with some unfurling banners that said “Die for Hong Kong”, while others yelled “We are Hong Kong” in English, rather than the local Cantonese dialect.
Some security guards signaled to the supporters to behave.
“I‘m not scared even if it becomes law ... I will go to the toilet instead of sitting when the national anthem is on,” Hong Kong supporter Bendter Chong said when asked if he would continue to jeer the anthem when the law is enacted.
Tensions between Hong Kong and mainland China have increased in recent years amid calls for greater democracy. Mass street protests in 2014 paralyzed parts of the city although they failed to secure concessions on electoral reform from Beijing.
Most of the jeering was from youths, underscoring how the younger generation has become increasingly disaffected by political tension and economic hardship.
Security was tight at the Hong Kong Stadium, the venue for the city’s annual Rugby Sevens tournament, where about 10,000 gathered for the match. The stadium has capacity for 40,000.
The game ended Lebanon 1, Hong Kong 0.
“I’m not sure about the law, but for sure people will be more behaved,” said Hong Kong supporter Fai Chan. “But it is still a matter of whether it is worth our respect.”
Hong Kong returned from British to Chinese rule in 1997 under a “one country, two systems” arrangement that guarantees a high degree of autonomy, including an independent judiciary and freedom of expression.
In 2015, Hong Kong football fans booed the Chinese anthem during a World Cup qualifier, prompting a fine for the Hong Kong Football Association from world body FIFA.
The association was warned by the Asian Football Confederation recently over the conduct of fans and said “a repeat violation may result in more severe punishment”.


JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - Caster Semenya will again attempt the 800 meters and 1500m double at next year’s Commonwealth Games before setting her sights on a world record.
The 26-year-old South African won gold in the shorter distance and a surprise bronze in the 1500m at the World Championship in London in August.
“I will again be going for the double but I need to improve on my tactics (for the 1500m),” she told reporters.
“The 1500m is a race that excites me. I look forward to racing it.”
Her coach Jean Verster said the 800m world record would be a priority for Semenya after the April Games at the Gold Coast in Australia.
“We will be gunning for that in the next season. I think she can probably break it already but we’ve got to find the right race because you don’t want to put all your cards on the table and then get beaten,” he told South Africa’s Independent Newspapers.
Semenya won the 800m in London in one minute 55.16 seconds, the fastest time in the event since 2008.
“I believe a time of 1:52 is possible. It is just a matter of getting in the right race with the right pacemaker,” said Verster.
The world record of 1:53.28 is now almost 35 years old and was set by Czech Jarmila Kratochvilova in Munich in July 1983.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Hockey League games on Monday:
Flames 7, Blues 4
Kris Versteeg scored the go-ahead goal with 5:31 left in the third period as the Calgary Flames skated to a wild 7-4 win over the St. Louis Blues on Monday night.
Versteeg one-timed a pass from Troy Brouwer past St. Louis goalie Jake Allen to cap off a stretch of four goals -- two by each team -- in a span of 2:43. Mark Jankowski scored twice and set up one for Calgary. Sam Bennett and Johnny Gaudreau had a goal and an assist each.
Micheal Ferland and Michael Frolik (empty-netter) also scored for the Flames, who finished their seven-game homestand with a 5-2 record. Matthew Tkachuk had two assists.
Vladimir Tarasenko scored twice for the Blues. Alexander Steen and Jaden Schwartz had a goal and an assist each. Paul Stastny had two assists, and Allen finished with 30 saves.
Hurricanes 5, Stars 1
Teuvo Teravainen scored three times in the opening 9:44 of the third period for his first career hat trick as Carolina extended its point streak to five straight games by beating Dallas.
Carolina, 3-0-2 in its last five, rebounded from a 4-3 overtime loss Saturday night to Chicago in which it surrendered a pair of two-goal leads. Teravainen notched the natural hat trick in his 212th career game.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights from National Basketball Association games on Monday:
Cavaliers 104, Knicks 101
LeBron James had 23 points and came one rebound short of a triple-double as the Cleveland Cavaliers stormed back from a 24-point deficit to defeat the host New York Knicks 104-101 on Monday night at Madison Square Garden.
James hit a step-back, 27-foot 3-pointer to put the Cavs up by three with 1:23 left in the game, the final dagger in an 8-0 Cleveland run to complete a rousing comeback. James finished with 12 assists and nine rebounds, and Kyle Korver added 21 points for the Cavs.
New York led by as much as 24 in the third quarter before heading into the fourth up 15 and still led by double figures with 6:53 remaining. Cleveland put on the defensive clamps late, though, and the Cavs hit four 3-pointers in the last 4:35, including two by Korver, to upend the previously hot Knicks.
Warriors 110, Magic 100
Playing without superstar Stephen Curry, Golden State went on a trademark third-quarter surge to defeat Orlando for its seventh straight win.
Curry sat out with a right thigh contusion, and his replacement, Shaun Livingston, rose to the challenge with 16 points and six assists. Kevin Durant led the Warriors with 21 points, eight assists and seven rebounds. Draymond Green had 20 points.
76ers 109, Clippers 105
Joel Embiid scored 32 points, and Robert Covington added 31, including two key fourth-quarter 3-pointers, as Philadelphia beat Los Angeles to end a two-game losing streak.
Ben Simmons added 22 points and 12 rebounds, and Embiid had a game-high 16 boards.
Timberwolves 109, Jazz 98
Karl-Anthony Towns scored 24 points and collected 13 rebounds while Jimmy Butler added 21 points and 10 assists to help Minnesota overwhelm Utah.
Taj Gibson also finished with a double-double for Minnesota, adding 15 points and 10 rebounds. Jeff Teague chipped in 22 points.
Wizards 110, Kings 92
John Wall scored 21 points and continued his torrid 3-point shooting against Sacramento as Washington won its third consecutive game.
Marcin Gortat had 18 and Otto Porter 15 for the Wizards, who matched their longest winning streak of the season and closed their four-game homestand at 3-1. Washington opened the season 3-0, but lost five of seven, including a loss to the one-win Dallas Mavericks on Nov. 7.
Bucks 110, Grizzlies 103
John Henson scored eight of his 17 points in the fourth quarter and Milwaukee rallied down the stretch for the win.
Tyreke Evans scored 14 of his 27 points in the fourth quarter for the Grizzlies, but Memphis couldn’t hold off Milwaukee, which won its third straight.
Pelicans 106, Hawks 105
Darius Miller hit four 3-pointers in the final 5:45 and scored 14 of his 21 points in the fourth-quarter run to lift New Orleans to the win.
Guard E‘Twaun Moore was the Pelicans’ leading scorer with 24 points and DeMarcus Cousins added 22 points, 16 rebounds and seven assists.
Lakers 100, Suns 93
Jordan Clarkson scored 25 points in 25 minutes off the bench and Corey Brewer and Kyle Kuzma combined for 13 points in the fourth quarter to lift Los Angeles past Phoenix.
Kentavious Caldwell-Pope scored 15 points and Brook Lopez added 15 points and 10 rebounds for the Lakers, who ended a three-game losing streak in a game where neither team had a double-digit lead until 2:30 remained.
Trail Blazers 101, Nuggets 97
Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum scored 17 points apiece and Damian Lillard chipped in 15 points, seven assists, five rebounds and four steals to lead Portland past Denver.


(Reuters) - Sweden’s players jumped for joy at the final whistle in Milan after Jan Andersson’s side hung on for a famous 0-0 draw against four-times champions Italy on Monday that secured a place at next year’s World Cup finals in Russia.
Jakob Johansson’s deflected strike in Stockholm was the only goal over the two legs of the European playoff, meaning Italy miss out on the World Cup for the first time since the Swedes hosted the tournament in 1958 and finished as runners-up.
As Andersson was being interviewed by Swedish television, his players invaded the pitch-side studio, crushing the desk in front of the broadcasters as they danced with joy.
“I cried a few tears,” Andersson said after his players had left to continue their celebrations on the pitch. It was the first time Sweden had reached the finals since 2006.
“Look at some of the older players who felt that this was the last chance to make it to a World Cup - and now we did it. It’s indescribable,” he added.
A key figure in the mammoth defensive effort that delivered the draw they needed was Sweden captain Andreas Granqvist, who fell to the ground in tears as the referee ended the game.
“For my part, this is the biggest thing that has happened to me and for those of us that are older this is probably the last chance to play at a World Cup so to succeed in those circumstances is an unbelievable joy,” the 32-year-old said.
Shortly afterwards, he was seen sporting a brand new haircut due to a promise made earlier in the campaign.
“I said to the lads in the dressing room that if we got to the World Cup they could shave it off. I thought they’d forgotten it, but John (Guidetti) and Vigge (Victor) Lindelof shaved it off straight away,” Granqvist said.
After the disappointed Italian fans had left the San Siro stadium, the Swedes stayed on and sang as the players continued their victory jig, savoring one of their greatest nights.
Sweden may have surprised the pundits but striker Marcus Berg said they believed all along that they could make it.
“I‘m so damn proud of us,” he told Swedish television.
“We have believed in this, we know how strong we are. I think that’s the key - we know how strong we are. We believe in what we do, we help each other in every situation.”


PARIS (Reuters) - French Alpine skier David Poisson has died following a crash during training at the Canadian resort of Nakiska, the French skiing federation said in a statement on Monday.
Poisson, 35, won the bronze medal in the downhill at the world championships in 2013.
A specialist in speed events, he finished seventh in the downhill event at the 2010 Olympics. He also took part in the 2014 Games.
The International Ski Federation said in a statement: “FIS extends its sincerest condolences to the team mates, friends, and loved ones of David Poisson... who died accidentally ... after a fall during downhill training at the Canadian resort of Nakiska.”
The French federation said it would release more details on the accident in due course.


MILAN (Reuters) - Tearful goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon ended his 20-year Italy career in the saddest possible way on Monday with their first failure to qualify for the World Cup in 60 years. The 39-year-old Buffon said after Monday’s goalless playoff draw against Sweden, which ended Italy’s hopes of going to Russia, would be the last of his 175 appearances. “It’s upsetting that my last Italy game coincides with our elimination for the World Cup,” said Buffon, a World Cup winner in 2006. “That’s my only regret, because time goes by and it’s cruel but that’s how it is.”
Buffon made his full international debut in 1997 against Russia the last time Italy took part in a playoff to qualify for the World Cup. Then, they scraped through 2-1 on aggregate.    Italy’s failure to reach next year’s finals in Russia could also end the international careers of the defenders who have played in front of Buffon for the best part of a decade. “I want to thank Giorgio Chiellini, Andrea Barzagli and Leonardo Bonucci who I’ve played with for so many years,” said Buffon.
“Sport teaches you to lose and win as a group and share joy and pain. The coach (Gian Piero Ventura) has the same degree of blame as us,” he added after Italy were eliminated 1-0 on aggregate having lost the first leg in Stockholm.
Four-times world champions Italy have only once failed to qualify for the finals -- in 1958 when they were hosted by Sweden -- though they did not enter the first World Cup in 1930. ”I‘m upset not just for me but for everyone,“ added Buffon. ”We didn’t underestimate this playoff. Anyone who plays in these games knows how difficult they are and how difficult it is to get back a goal against a team like Sweden. “We didn’t succeed in playing to our abilities and we lacked energy and strength to score the goal,” he added.


LONDON (Reuters) - Rafael Nadal pulled out of the season-ending ATP Finals on Monday after being hampered by a knee injury during his round-robin defeat by Belgian David Goffin.
“I‘m not ready to play... I fought a lot knowing it was my last match of the season,” the world number one, who had also quit midway through the Paris Masters tournament two weeks ago, told reporters following his 7-6(5) 6-7(4) 6-4 defeat by Goffin.
“My commitment was to try... I’ve missed this event too many times in my career,” added the Spaniard who has been plagued by knee injuries throughout his career.
Nadal, who was hobbling around the court for much of the third set of his contest against Goffin, qualified for the season ending tournament for the 13th successive year but withdrew before the start on five previous occasions.
Monday’s withdrawal means the 31-year-old, who claimed the French and U.S. Open trophies this year to increase his grand slam haul to 16 titles, has yet to win the season-ending tournament.
“I was not enjoying it (out there today) so it was no fun to play like this. But I had an unforgettable season,” he added.


(Reuters) - List of countries assured of places in the 32-team field for next year’s World Cup finals in Russia after Sweden secured their spot at the expense of Italy on Monday:
Russia (Qualified as hosts)
France
Portugal
Germany
Serbia
Poland
England
Spain
Belgium
Iceland
Switzerland
Croatia
Sweden
Brazil
Uruguay
Argentina
Colombia
Nigeria
Egypt
Morocco
Tunisia
Senegal
Mexico
Costa Rica
Panama
Iran
Japan
South Korea
Saudi Arabia
Second legs
Nov 14
Ireland v Denmark (0-0), Dublin
Nov 15
Australia v Honduras (0-0), Sydney
Peru v New Zealand (0-0), Lima


(Reuters) - Honda announced the departure of MotoGP team principal Livio Suppo on Monday, a day after Spaniard Marc Marquez secured his fourth top-flight world championship in five years.
The 53-year-old Italian, who joined the Repsol Honda team from Ducati in 2010 and assumed the principal role in 2013, said he needed a change and was leaving the sport with a year to run on his contract.
“After 22 seasons in the motorcycle racing world, I feel that it is time for me to look for new challenges,” he said in a Honda statement.
“I leave HRC (Honda Racing Corporation) knowing that in 2018 they will be competitive, because Marc and Dani (Pedrosa) are very strong and the engineers will as always prepare a good package for them to fight for the championship again.”
Suppo oversaw five MotoGP titles in his time at Honda’s works team, with Australian Casey Stoner winning in 2011. Stoner also won the championship at Ducati in 2007, when Suppo was in charge there.


NEW YORK (Reuters) - Lawyers defending three former soccer officials at trial on U.S. corruption charges strove to distance their clients from a scandal that has engulfed the sport as they delivered opening statements to jurors on Monday.
Juan Ángel Napout, formerly president of the South American soccer governing body CONMEBOL and Paraguay’s soccer federation, Manuel Burga, former president of Peru’s soccer federation and José Maria Marin, the former president of Brazil’s soccer federation are on trial in federal court in Brooklyn.
The three men are the first to stand trial since U.S. prosecutors unveiled a corruption case against soccer officials around the world more than two years ago. Of 42 people charged by U.S. prosecutors in the FIFA probe, 24 have pleaded guilty and two have been sentenced so far.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Keith Edelman told jurors that the three men were part of a conspiracy to take bribes from sports marketing companies in exchange for lucrative marketing rights to soccer tournaments, including the Copa America and Copa Libertadores.
“The defendants cheated the sport in order to line their pockets with money that should have been spent to benefit the game, not themselves,” Edelman said. The money they pocketed could have been spent by soccer organizations to build fields, buy equipment and fund women’s teams and youth leagues, he said.
None of the lawyers for the former officials denied that there was corruption in international soccer, but all told jurors that their clients had not taken part.
“This case is not about FIFA,” said Napout’s lawyer, Silvia Pinera. “It’s about one man, Juan Angel Napout, and his fight for justice.”
Pinera told jurors that the case against Napout would rely on testimony from Alejandro Burzaco, the former head of sports marketing company Torneos y Competencias. Burzaco, she said, “cut a sweetheart deal with the government and began telling stories” after he was indicted.
Burga’s lawyer, Bruce Udolf, also said he expected prosecutors to rely on cooperating witnesses who might be motivated to “get pretty doggone creative” to avoid prison.
Marin’s lawyer, Charles Stillman, likened corruption in international soccer to a children’s soccer game in which Marin did not participate.
“He was kind of like the youngster standing off to the side, picking up daisies and looking around while others are running full steam ahead,” Stillman said.


LONDON (Reuters) - Pirelli and McLaren have canceled a Formula One tire test scheduled for the Brazilian Grand Prix circuit after teams were targeted by armed robbers in Sao Paulo over the weekend.
A robbery attempt on a Pirelli van after Sunday’s race, which was thwarted by the team’s security staff, was the latest of a string of incidents involving Formula One personnel at Interlagos.
Four-times world champion Lewis Hamilton had called on Formula One to act after mechanics from his Mercedes team were robbed at gunpoint in their mini-van as they left Interlagos on Friday.
The Briton, who was not present at the time, said shots were fired and a gun pointed at one person’s head before valuables were taken.
Sunday’s attack on the Pirelli van took place after security had supposedly been tightened at the track.
“Following a robbery attempt, neutralized by Pirelli security, on a Pirelli van at the Interlagos circuit last Sunday... it has been decided to cancel the tire test,” Pirelli said in a statement on Monday.
The decision was taken with McLaren, who were due to test Pirelli’s 2018 tires with British teenager Lando Norris and Belgian Stoffel Vandoorne on Tuesday and Wednesday, and the governing FIA “in the interest of the safety of the personnel”.
McLaren’s executive director Zak Brown told Reuters the team had put in place additional security measures before the test was called off.
“The circuit needs to get its act together because it’s not acceptable,” he said.
“If we are going to travel to places, we need to make sure that the government and city is doing a good job keeping everyone safe.”
The FIA, whose staff were also targeted on Friday, had promised “heavy police reinforcements” for the weekend.
Despite that, Sauber strategy engineer Ruth Buscombe reported on Twitter that a team van was targeted late on Saturday.
The Interlagos circuit has a history of such attacks, with cars caught in traffic jams or at red stop lights on a road  that runs past a hillside slum.
Unlike regular team staff, race drivers travel to and from their hotels with police escorts and in bulletproof cars.
Britain’s Jenson Button was in a car that was attacked outside the circuit in 2010, a year after he won the world championship, but his police driver smashed through the traffic to escape.
“There’s a huge amount of traffic flowing in and out at peak times and, unfortunately, it provides an opportunity for these situations,” Mike Collier, McLaren’s head of human performance who was in the car with Button at the time, told Reuters.
“There is clearly a huge amount of poverty as well and when the race teams arrive, they come with a huge amount of assets and wealth.”


LONDON (Reuters) - Grigor Dimitrov made a winning start to his maiden ATP Finals when he outlasted Austrian Dominic Thiem 6-3 5-7 7-5 in a gripping afternoon duel at the O2 Arena on Monday.
The opening match in the Pete Sampras Group produced a feast of stylish backhands from both players but it was Dimitrov, the first Bulgarian to qualify for the tournament in its 48-year-old history, who overcome some late jitters to prevail.
World number six Dimitrov served for the match at 5-4 in the decider but was broken to love before two consecutive double faults by Thiem gave him another chance to close it out.
Again Dimitrov wobbled, squandering two match points at 40-15 with a double-fault and a forehand error, but he finally bagged the win when Thiem looped a backhand long.
“The first time I got broken (at 5-4) I thought ‘okay let’s get back up and try again’,” Dimitrov, who enjoyed some noisy support from a contingent of Bulgarian fans, said on court.
“I‘m living my dream right now and I wanna keep on going.”
World number one Rafael Nadal opens his quest for a first ATP Finals title later against Belgium’s David Goffin.
Nadal’s appearance has been in doubt after a knee injury forced him to withdraw midway through the Paris Masters tournament.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian Olympic weightlifter Ruslan Albegov has been suspended for having potentially violated anti-doping rules, the International Weightlifting Federation (IWF) said on Monday.
The IWF said Albegov, who won bronze at the 2012 London Games in the men’s +105 kg event, was provisionally suspended for “use or attempted use by an athlete of a prohibited substance or a prohibited method”, without providing further detail.
Russia is one of nine countries currently on a one-year ban from international weightlifting competitions over doping at the 2008 and 2012 Olympics. Other banned nations include China, Turkey and Ukraine.
The IWF last year barred Russia’s weightlifting team from the Rio Olympics over repeated doping offences.
Russia’s participation in next year’s winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, is now in limbo over investigations by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) on the alleged tampering of Russian athletes’ samples by laboratory and security officials at the 2014 Sochi Games.
Six Russian cross-country skiers were banned for life from the Olympics this month as part of an IOC investigation.
The IOC has said that it would decide at its executive board meeting next month on the participation of Russian competitors at Pyeongchang.


(Reuters) - Germany’s Felix Neureuther won the season-opening World Cup slalom in Levi, Finland on Sunday but only after Britain’s Dave Ryding had missed out on a glorious opportunity to achieve an historic triumph.
Ryding had led the field at halfway and, as last to go on the second run, had stretched his advantage over Neureuther from 0.14 seconds to 0.51 when, with victory in sight near the end of the course, he hit a rut and missed a gate.
It was an agonizing moment for the 30-year-old, who had been tantalizingly close to becoming the first Briton ever to win a World Cup race.
The opening win of the season instead went to the experienced Neureuther, who celebrated his first victory since his daughter Matilda was born by promising to name his reindeer -- the traditional winner’s prize in Levi -- after her.
“I never thought that I could win here. I‘m 33, it’s my first race as a father so winning here is unreal,” Neureuther, who clocked a combined 1 minute 42.83 seconds for his two runs (50.43 seconds and 52.40), told Eurosport.
“It means a lot to me. You had to push really hard, you had to take your chances and still ski smart and it worked out perfectly.”
The German, who was winning his 13th World Cup race but his first for nearly two years after overcoming back problems, was 0.37 seconds faster than Norway’s Henrik Kristoffersen (1:43.20) with Sweden’s Mattias Hargin third on 1:43.28.
Yet Neureuther admitted that he had been “lucky” that Ryding had erred. “He was extremely fast,” he conceded.
Ryding had equaled Britain’s best-ever World Cup result in January when he was second in the slalom at Kitzbuhel and had looked on course to go one better after clocking the fastest opening run of 50.29.
“It is a shame not to come away with some points, but sometimes slalom can be cruel,” Ryding told reporters.
“Going into the second run I knew it was tight and I had to attack. I started the pitch the way I know I can, but halfway down my inside ski just went away from me and that was it.”
Austria’s Marcel Hirscher made a surprisingly early return just three months after breaking his left ankle in training and, while clearly feeling his way back, the six-time overall World Cup champion reckoned he was pleased with his 17th place finish.


SAO PAULO (Reuters) - Felipe Massa said farewell to his home Brazilian Formula One fans in the way he wanted on Sunday, thanking them from the Interlagos podium after a seventh place that felt like a victory.
The Williams driver, whose last win was at the same circuit in 2008 when he finished runner-up to Lewis Hamilton in the championship, savored every minute of his final grand prix on home soil.
There was a lump in many a commentator’s throat, and fans around the world, as the 36-year-old’s son Felipinho hailed his father over the team radio after the checkered flag.
“Daddy I am so proud of you,” said the seven-year-old, whose father is retiring from Formula One after the season-ending race in Abu Dhabi.
“Wherever you go I will support you. I love you. By the way, I loved your start.”
Father and son were then ushered onto the podium, after the top three had celebrated, with his old friend Rubens Barrichello presenting him to the crowd flooding onto the track.
“I am really emotional today,” Massa said in the understatement of the afternoon.
“To be honest I am so happy for my race. I did the best that the car could achieve.”
One of the most popular racers in the paddock, with 11 victories for Ferrari, the little Brazilian also retired at the end of last year to make way for Canadian teenage rookie Lance Stroll.
He was back in the line-up within months, after Valtteri Bottas moved from Williams to Mercedes to replace 2016 champion Nico Rosberg, but there will be no coming back after this season.
”It’s so difficult to explain my feelings today,“ he said. ”Amazing start, then managed to overtake a few cars, managed to overtake (former Ferrari team mate Fernando) Alonso... managed to keep him behind.
”It was a very difficult race for me. It was like many victories that I took.
“I drove a perfect race from the beginning to the end... today definitely was like a victory and it was so amazing to finish and feel the emotion of the people.”
Last year, Massa had crashed out of a wet race and walked down the pitlane in the rain with his family to say a tearful farewell to mechanics and fans.
He had produced the national flag as he stepped from the car that time, wrapping it around his shoulders, and this time it fluttered from the car as he did his slowing down lap with his family watching.
“Last year I had so much love and emotion from the people, but I didn’t finish the race like I wanted,” said the Brazilian.
“Today I finished the race like I wanted. That’s why I did another year.”


BASEL (Reuters) - Switzerland scraped into next year’s World Cup, their fourth finals in a row, after being held to a goalless draw at home by a valiant and workmanlike Northern Ireland who came desperately close to forcing extra-time on Sunday.
The Swiss qualified 1-0 on aggregate, the tie ultimately being decided by the hugely controversial penalty converted by Ricardo Rodriguez in the first leg in Belfast on Thursday.
They were again indebted to Rodriguez on Sunday when he cleared a goalbound header from Jonny Evans off the line in stoppage time as Northern Ireland pressed for an equalizer.
The Swiss, boasting a much more illustrious and talented line-up, could have done it in style as they dominated the first hour but squandered a hatful of chances.
Instead, on a slippery pitch which cut up badly, they relinquished control for the final half hour and were forced onto the back foot, fraying the nerves of the home crowd.
“This is a devastating moment but also a very proud moment,” said Northern Ireland manager Michael O‘Neill, who described the manner of their defeat as “cruel”.
“We’ve gone toe-to-toe with a very good side and it was decided by a really poor decision, a penalty that should never have been made.”
Forward Haris Seferovic was the biggest culprit and was jeered off by the home crowd when he was substituted by Breel Embolo.
After failing to muster a shot on target in the first leg, Northern Ireland forced Swiss goalkeeper Yann Sommer into action after only three minutes when he tipped over a 25-metre shot by Chris Brunt over the bar.    Seferovic glanced a free header wide from Xherdan Shaqiri’s cross and shot wide of the near post when he was released by Steven Zuber as the Swiss began to take control.
Numerous other chances went begging and the Swiss lost their swagger as the game wore on.
They survived one fright when Conor Washington headed wide from James Ward’s cross at the end of a quick break while another break down the left by Washington ended with George Saville shooting weakly at Sommer.
Seferovic should have settled it in the 85th minute but instead shot high and wide -- and was substituted almost immediately.
“I‘m very satisfied with my team and with what they have achieved, not just today because it’s been a long process,” said Switzerland coach Vladimir Petkovic.
Looking forward to the finals, he said: “We want to go as far as possible. We will take it match by match, opponent by opponent and we’re not setting any limits.”


MINSK (Reuters) - The United States put in a battling performance to beat hosts Belarus 3-2 on Sunday and win a record-extending 18th Fed Cup title, their first in 17 years.
Shelby Rogers and Coco Vandeweghe downed Aryna Sabalenka and Aliaksandra Sasnovich 6-3 7-6(3) in the doubles to hand the visitors the decisive point.
The U.S. had not won the title since beating Spain 5-0 in 2000, while Belarus were without former world number one Victoria Azarenka, who missed the final due to an ongoing custody battle with her baby son’s father.
Vandeweghe is the first player to record a spotless year in Fed Cup singles rubbers since Petra Kvitova went unbeaten for the Czech Republic in 2011, and the American won eight matches in total - six singles and two doubles - in the competition.
Kathy Rinaldi was understandably over the moon after becoming the first U.S. captain to guide a team to a Fed Cup title in their first year since Marty Riessen in 1986.
“I believe in these American players,” she said in a courtside interview. “They’re tough as nails. American women are tough as nails! There’s going to be dancing all night.”
Vandeweghe had put the visitors ahead with a composed display to beat world number 78 Sabalenka 7-6(5) 6-1, before Sasnovich struck back, downing Sloane Stephens 4-6 6-1 8-6 to force the doubles.
Rinaldi and Belarus captain Eduard Dubrou sprung surprises for the decider, with the former sending out Vandeweghe instead of Alison Riske, and Dubrou sticking with Sabalenka and Sasnovich instead of fielding Vera Lapko and Lidziya Marozava.
”I‘m just really thrilled for all four players,“ Rinaldi added. ”I‘m so proud of all four of them. That was the plan, to go out there and take the doubles.
“Coco came out and played just unbelievable. Shelby stepped up and Sloane, my heart was broken for her but she battled this whole week and she battled all the way to the end.”
U.S. Open champion Stephens lost both her matches and her defeat on Sunday means she has not won a singles tie since winning the final at Flushing Meadows on Sept. 9.


LONDON (Reuters) - Roger Federer says he does not regret passing up the chance to topple great rival Rafael Nadal from the top of the world rankings at the ATP Finals in London this week.
It could be argued the 36-year-old Swiss has enjoyed a marginally superior year to the Spaniard, having won seven titles including the Australian Open and Wimbledon.
But Nadal, winner of the French and U.S. Opens, was guaranteed finishing the year as number one for the first time since 2013 after Federer withdrew from the Paris Masters to rest his body.
Nadal was presented with the year-end award immediately after Federer began his quest for a seventh ATP Finals title by beating Jack Sock 6-4 7-6(4) at the O2 Arena on Sunday.
“He was better throughout the year. He played more tournaments. He was incredibly successful throughout. So, I don’t have any regrets because I feel like in my stage of my competition, my age, either it comes to me or it doesn‘t,” Federer told reporters.
“He had more gas left in the tank than I did. I couldn’t play as much as I’ve wanted. My only regret was I would have loved to be in contention through the Montreal finals, Cincinnati, U.S. Open,” added Federer, who struggled with a back injury during the North American hardcourt swing.
”But things evaporated very quickly after he (Nadal) won the U.S. Open. That’s when he made his final push.
“That was it for me really.”
While 31-year-old Nadal, who plays his first match on Monday against David Goffin, is the oldest end-of-year number one, Federer is the oldest to finish number two.
“In some ways I‘m happy he clinched it because he deserves it. And like this, I can focus on playing the tournament, and not having to talk about that at the same time,” Federer said.
“Sure, I would have loved to be it, but you can’t be it with that many tournaments, so it’s no problem for me.”
After proving his fitness with a close-fought victory over Sock, Federer, who has not won the ATP Finals title since 2011,  will also face newcomer Alexander Zverev, the world number three, and Marin Cilic in the Boris Becker Group.
“I‘m happy that I was able to come out today and had actually good energy,” Federer, the oldest man to qualify for the ATP Finals since 1970, said.
“This is the best I’ve felt since the (Juan Martin) del Potro final (in Basel). Now there’s no more turning back. Just full steam ahead every match that comes.”


MINSK (Reuters) - Aliaksandra Sasnovich came from behind to beat U.S. Open champion Sloane Stephens 4-6 6-1 8-6 and draw Belarus level at 2-2 with the United States in the Fed Cup final on Sunday, forcing a deciding doubles encounter.
Coco Vandeweghe gave the U.S., who are seeking a record-extending 18th title, a 2-1 lead when she beat world number 78 Aryna Sabalenka 7-6(5) 6-1 in the day’s first singles rubber.
Vandeweghe and Shelby Rogers will now face Sasnovich and Sabalenka to decide the winner of the international competition.
Stephens’ latest defeat means she has not won a singles match since claiming the U.S. Open title on Sept. 9.
Beaten by Sabalenka on Saturday, she got off to an encouraging start against Sasnovich in the reverse singles, breaking early and staying in control to take the first set with her fourth ace of the match.
She had two break points in the first game of the second, but squandered both and few would have predicted the collapse that followed, with Sasnovich winning five games in a row before Stephens got back on the board.
The Belarusian claimed the first of three set points to level the tie.
Stephens struck a powerful forehand to go 4-2 up in the decider but stumbled again when serving for the match, allowing Sasnovich to break back.
The Belarusian in turn failed close out the match on her own serve, allowing Stephens to level at 6-6, before sealing the win by taking the next two games.
Vandeweghe, who beat Sasnovich on Saturday before Sabalenka stunned Stephens, came from behind to win a first set tie-break on Sunday before breezing through the second set.
“I know she (Sabalenka) has only got one style of play and she’s just going to keep swinging,” Vandeweghe said.
“I knew if I just kept giving myself opportunities and getting my nose in front in her service games I’d keep getting opportunities and she’d eventually break down.”
The American is the first player to record a spotless year in Fed Cup singles rubbers since Petra Kvitova went unbeaten for Czech Republic in 2011.


VALENCIA, Spain (Reuters) - Honda’s Marc Marquez won his fourth MotoGP world championship in five years on Sunday after the Spaniard’s only rival Andrea Dovizioso crashed out of a dramatic season-ending race in Valencia.
The 24-year-old, who started on pole position with a 21-point lead and also almost fell, finished third and safe in the knowledge that he was the sport’s youngest four times champion in the top category.
“It’s an amazing feeling. During the race I always tried to be calm, control the situation,” said Marquez of his wobble during the race.
“Suddenly I said now is the time to push because I felt really good. But in turn one I lost concentration on the brake point, I braked too late...Marquez style until the end,” he grinned.
Compatriot and team mate Dani Pedrosa won the race with French rookie Johann Zarco second for the Tech3 Yamaha team after leading early on.
With Dovizioso in fifth place and unable to find a way past his Ducati team mate Jorge Lorenzo, despite repeated team orders, Marquez looked in control until he misjudged his braking and ran wide with seven laps to go.
The Spaniard managed to stay on the bike as he ran wide into the gravel trap, dropping to fifth place and with Dovizioso ahead of him.
Both Ducati riders then fell a lap later, first Lorenzo and then Dovizioso. The Italian got back on track before retiring in the pits as Honda started the celebrations.
Marquez, who celebrated with a large red dice highlighting the numbers four and six, for his MotoGP titles and total championships in all categories, ended the season with 298 points to runner-up Dovizioso’s 261.
“I‘m happy because we tried until the end, and it was open until 10 laps to the end,” said Dovizioso, who saw Marquez’s slide and save but could do nothing to take advantage of it.
”It was really on the limit from the first lap. At the beginning I wanted to overtake Jorge, but in some corners I was slower. So at the end he created a good pace and it was good for me to follow him.
“I was able to stay with them but we were over the limit for all the race. We both did a mistake but we have to be happy about the championship.”
Marquez replaced the late Mike Hailwood as the youngest ever four times champion in the top flight, achieving the feat at 24 years and 268 days compared to the British great’s 1965 record of 25 years and 107 days.
The Spaniard, who has won all his titles with Honda, also replaced Italian great Valentino Rossi as the youngest to win six world championships.
He was also the first rider in the 69-year history of grand prix motorcycling to win at least five races a season for eight years in a row.


(Reuters) - The United States set a short track world record of 6:29.052 in the men’s 5,000 meter relay at a World Cup event in Shanghai on Sunday, beating the previous record set by Canada in Calgary in 2012 by more than a second.
The U.S. men’s team of Keith Carroll Jr., J.R. Celski, Thomas Hong and John-Henry Krueger sat back in the pack until a collision between Canada and China took both countries out of the race.
Celski passed South Korea’s skater on the inside on the final corner to seal gold by .024 of a second. “It feels great to win as a team and to do it together,” Celski said.
Russia are the reigning Olympic champions in the 5,000m relay, having won gold in Sochi ahead of the U.S.


TOKYO (Reuters) - A confident Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir spun to ice dance gold in Japan’s grand prix event on Sunday for their second podium-topping finish, clinching a place in next month’s final.
Skating to a medley of songs from ‘Moulin Rouge’, the two-time Olympians performed a routine by turns dramatic and lyrical for their second gold medal after Skate Canada two weeks ago in what they said was an important step on their way to the Pyeongchang Olympics in February.
“We’ve made some improvements this week that we’re quite proud of from Skate Canada,” Moir said.
“We only had one week. We’re looking to make the same sort of transition into the final. It’s a great stepping stone here for us.”
The veteran pair, who has skated together for two decades and were the only ice dancers to take gold in an Olympic debut when they won in Vancouver in 2010, racked up 117.72 points for a total of 198.64.
Madison Hubbell and Zachary Donohue of the United States took the silver medal while 2014 World Champions Anna Cappellini and Luca Lanotte finished third.
With four out of six grand prix events over, Virtue and Moir are certain of a place at the December final in Nagoya, Japan, but the other two pairs still have to wait.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Hockey League games on Saturday:
Rangers 4, Oilers 2
Rick Nash scored twice as the New York Rangers ran their winning streak to a season-high six games with 4-2 victory over the Edmonton Oilers on Saturday.
Nash recorded his first multi-goal game since a hat trick Nov. 21, 2015, at Florida and 63rd overall. It was his 17th two-goal game since joining New York in 2012 and first at home since Feb. 2, 2015. He has five goals in his last four contests.
Pavel Buchnevich also scored a power-play goal and Michael Grabner added an empty-net goal for the Rangers, who also won their fifth straight home game. Henrik Lundqvist made 27 saves for New York.
Jesse Puljujarvi scored in his season debut and Connor McDavid scored on the power play for Edmonton, which was unable to win a season-high third straight game after overtime wins against the New York Islanders and New Jersey.
Senators 4, Avalanche 3
Mike Hoffman registered two power-play goals and Erik Karlsson added two assists as Ottawa swept Colorado in the NHL Global Series.
The Senators staged a two-goal third period rally as Johnny Oduya’s second goal of the season at 7:01 evened the score. Hoffman gave Ottawa the lead with his sixth goal of the season, unassisted on the power play at 13:23 of the third period.
The Avalanche lost their third straight game, receiving goals from Sven Andrighetto, Alexander Kerfoot and Blake Comeau. Jonathan Bernier made 36 saves for Colorado.
Wild 1, Flyers 0
Jason Zucker’s one-man show continued when he scored in Minnesota’s victory over Philadelphia.
Zucker scored his ninth goal of the season, and team-high third game-winner, at 1:08 of the third period to break a scoreless tie. He has scored each of the Wild’s last six goals over the span of three games.
Devan Dubnyk stopped 32 shots to earn his second straight shutout as Minnesota won back-to-back games for only the second time this season. Brian Elliott made 26 saves for the Flyers.
Predators 5, Penguins 4 (SO)
Shootout goals by Kevin Fiala and Filip Forsberg lifted Nashville to its fourth straight victory.
Kyle Turris, playing his first game for the Predators after being acquired in a three-way trade with Ottawa and Colorado on Sunday, scored as did P.K. Subban, Craig Smith and Calle Jarnkrok. Pekka Rinne made 26 saves for Nashville.
Bryan Rust, Phil Kessel, Jake Guentzel and Brian Dumoulin scored for the Penguins. Tristan Jarry stopped 24 shots in his third career start for Pittsburgh.
Blackhawks 4, Hurricanes 3 (OT)
Brandon Saad scored with 3:16 left in overtime -- his fifth game-winning goal of the season -- as Chicago rallied twice from two-goal deficits to beat Carolina.
Brock McGinn and Jeff Skinner scored in the first period to put the Hurricanes up 2-0 early, but Carolina and goaltender Scott Darling, making his first appearance against his former team, couldn’t hold the lead late.
The Blackhawks trailed 3-1 heading into the third before Alex DeBrincat scored his second of the game early in the period and Gustav Forsling notched his first of the season with 8:31 remaining to tie the score.
Canadiens 2, Sabres 1 (OT)
Max Pacioretty scored at 3:08 of overtime to give Montreal the victory over Buffalo.
Andrew Shaw scored for the Canadiens, who are 7-3-0 in their last 10 games, and Charlie Lindgren made 34 saves. Pacioretty broke in alone from the blue line and deked to his backhand for the winner -- his seventh goal of the season.
Ryan O‘Reilly scored for the Sabres and Chad Johnson made 27 saves as Buffalo lost for the second straight night. The Sabres were beaten 4-1 to the Florida Panthers at home Friday.
Blue Jackets 2, Red Wings 1 (SO)
Jack Johnson beat Jimmy Howard in the ninth round of the shootout to earn Columbus a victory over Detroit.
The Blue Jackets halted a four-game losing skid, while the Red Wings’ 12-game winning streak in shootouts also was brought to an end. Artemi Panarin opened the scoring 67 seconds into the game for Columbus, while Andreas Athanasiou replied 6:11 into the third period.
Sergei Bobrovsky made 32 saves for the Blue Jackets while Jimmy Howard stopped 31 shots for Detroit.
Maple Leafs 4, Bruins 1
Backup goaltender Curtis McElhinney, making only his third start of the season, turned aside 38 shots to lead Toronto to a sweep of a home-and-home series with Boston.
James van Riemsdyk, who scored two goals in Friday night’s 3-2 overtime win, had a goal and an assist and has 14 goals against the Bruins. It is the most he has against any team, and gave him 24 points in 30 career games against Boston.
Mitch Marner, Morgan Rielly and Patrick Marleau (empty net) also scored for the Leafs, who have won the last six games against Boston. Tuukka Rask gave up two goals on the first five shots and finished with 21 saves for the Bruins.
Islanders 5, Blues 2
John Tavares ignited a three-goal flurry in the first period with his 13th goal of the season to send New York to victory over St. Louis.
Tavares beat goalie Jake Allen when he was left alone in front of the net at 3:21. Casey Cizikas scored the second goal off a rebound at 10:07, followed by a goal from Jordan Eberle on a 2-on-1 break at 13:18. Thomas Greiss stopped 35 shots for the Islanders. Joshua Ho-Sang and Anders Lee also scored for New York.
Brayden Schenn and Jaden Schwartz scored for the Blues.
Sharks 5, Canucks 0
Logan Couture and Chris Tierney each scored twice to support the 41-save shutout by Aaron Dell as San Jose defeated Vancouver.
The 28-year-old backup goalie recorded his second career shutout by winning for the second time this season and making a career-high number of stops. Dell turned away 21 shots on Dec. 30 of last season against Philadelphia during his rookie campaign.
Couture scored his second of the game and 10th of the season into an empty net at 18:19 of the third period before Tierney scored a short-handed empty-netter on a penalty shot inside the final 40 seconds.
Devils 2, Panthers 1
Cory Schneider made 32 saves as New Jersey snapped a four-game slide.
Damon Severson gave the Devils a 1-0 lead when his slap shot deflected off defenseman Keith Yandle and past goaltender James Reimer. Kyle Palmieri doubled New Jersey’s lead with his fourth goal of the season on a 5-on-3 power play.
The Panthers cut New Jersey’s lead to 2-1 on Nick Bjugstad’s goal in the second period. Reimer made 19 saves.
Jets 4, Coyotes 1
Mark Scheifele scored a go-ahead power-play goal early in the third period and Steve Mason stopped 29 shots for his first win of the season as Winnipeg handed Arizona its fourth straight loss.
Scheifele also assisted on Kyle Connor’s fourth goal of the season later in the Jets’ three-goal third period and Blake Wheeler added two assists as Winnipeg rebounded from a 5-2 loss at Vegas on Friday to improve to 9-2-3 in its last 14 games.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights from National Basketball Association games on Friday:
Celtics 90, Hornets 87
The Boston Celtics lost Kyrie Irving but rallied from 18 points down in the second half and captured their 11th straight victory, roaring past the Charlotte Hornets and hanging on for a 90-87 victory on Friday night.
With Gordon Hayward out for the season and Al Horford sitting out a second straight game with a concussion, Irving, the third member of the new Big Three, went down with a possible concussion less than two minutes into the game -- the result of an errant elbow from teammate Aron Baynes.
Boston went on to a season-low 11 points in the first quarter and was down 18 early in the third before sending the Hornets to their fourth straight loss that completed an 0-4 road trip.
With journeyman guard Shane Larkin leading the way, the Celtics went on a 14-2 fourth-quarter run to take control of the game and held the Hornets to 11 points in the fourth quarter. But the home team still had to survive a scramble at the end to survive.
Pacers 105, Bulls 87
Victor Oladipo scored 25 points and Bojan Bogdanovic added 22 as Indiana snapped a four-game losing streak.
The Pacers never trailed and limited the Bulls to 25.9 percent shooting (7 of 27) from 3-point range. The Pacers had struggled defensively during the four-game skid, allowing an average of 115 points.
Thaddeus Young chipped in 13 points for Indiana (6-7), which won for the first time since Nov. 1. Myles Turner also reached double figures for the Pacers and finished with 11 points and nine rebounds. Bobby Portis, playing his second game since returning from an eight-game suspension, scored 20 points and grabbed 11 rebounds off the bench to lead Chicago, which lost its third straight.
Pistons 111, Hawks 104
Reggie Jackson made two pivotal 3-pointers in the final minute, lifting Detroit to its fourth straight win.
Jackson finished with 22 points and six assists for the Pistons (9-3), who gave away a 19-point lead before regaining control. Andre Drummond had 16 points, 20 rebounds and a career-high seven assists for Detroit. Avery Bradley supplied 20 points and Tobias Harris contributed 16 points and eight rebounds. Ish Smith led Pistons reserves with 17 points and five assists.
Kent Bazemore tallied 22 points, five rebounds and five assists for the Hawks (2-10). Dennis Schroder recorded 17 points and 11 assists, John Collins tossed in 16 points and eight rebounds, Dewayne Dedmon added 13 points and nine rebounds and Marco Belinelli chipped in 14 points.
Bucks 94, Spurs 87
Giannis Antetokounmpo had 28 points and 12 rebounds and newly acquired Eric Bledsoe added 13 points and hit a key jumper down the stretch as Milwaukee defeated San Antonio to snap a four-game losing streak.
The Bucks led 87-80 with 6:13 to play on a jumper by Khris Middleton, but Milwaukee missed its next five shots and allowed San Antonio to pull within 89-87 on Manu Ginobili’s 3-point play with 2:26 remaining.
Bledsoe, who was playing his first game with Milwaukee after being traded from Phoenix on Tuesday, made a jumper with 1:40 to play and Middleton added another with 55 seconds left to push the Bucks’ advantage to 93-87. The Spurs missed their final five shots and got no second chances down the stretch.
Thunder 120, Clippers 111
Paul George scored a season-high 42 points as Oklahoma City beat slumping Los Angeles.
Russell Westbrook added 22 points and eight assists while Anthony scored 14 points as Oklahoma City snapped a four-game losing streak.
Lou Williams scored a season-high 35 points to lead the Clippers. Blake Griffin and Austin Rivers added 17 each for Los Angeles, which lost for the fourth straight time and the sixth time in seven games.
Heat 84, Jazz 74
Dion Waiters scored 21 points and Goran Dragic added 18 to help Miami rally for a win over Utah.
Miami won its second straight after holding the Jazz to 4-of-33 shooting (12.1 percent) in the second half. Utah’s shooting struggles helped the Heat overcome 20 turnovers.
Rodney Hood scored 19 points to lead the Jazz. Rudy Gobert chipped in 12 points and 12 rebounds and Donovan Mitchell and Alec Burks each scored 12 points for Utah, which has lost four straight -- three at home.
Magic 128, Suns 112
Aaron Gordon scored 22 points, Nikola Vucevic had 19 and Orlando blew open a see-saw game early in the fourth quarter to beat slumping Phoenix.
Terrence Ross and Jonathan Simmons added 17 each for the Magic, who are 8-4 and off to their best start since going 9-3 to start the 2011-12 season. The Magic are a perfect 4-0 against the Western Conference.
Alex Len had 21 points and 13 rebounds for Phoenix, TJ Warren had 20 and rookie Josh Jackson had a career-high 18 points for the Suns, who have lost five straight and the first three games of a seven-game homestand. They also lost forward Jared Dudley to a right knee sprain in the third quarter.
Nets 101, Trail Blazers 97
D‘Angelo Russell totaled 21 points and nine assists as shorthanded Brooklyn beat Portland.
Russell five players in double figures for the Nets, who used a 31-18 third quarter to improve to 2-2 on a five-game road trip.


((The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Hockey League games on Friday:
Senator 4, Avalanche 3
Mark Stone’s second goal of the night 59 seconds into overtime lifted the Ottawa Senators to a 4-3 victory over the Colorado Avalanche on Friday in the NHL Global Series.
Ottawa won for the second time in three games. Swedish defenseman Fredrik Claesson, Mark Stone and Chris DiDomenico registered goals while Craig Anderson made 16 saves.
Colorado lost its second straight game after a three-game winning streak. Alexander Kerfoot registered a goal and assist, and Nail Yakupov and Nathan MacKinnon added goals. Seymon Varlamov made 28 saves.
Stone took a feed from Derick Brassard and hit the open net with Varlamov out of position. Swedish defenseman Erik Karlsson earned the secondary assist on the game-winner.
Capitals 4, Penguins 1
Braden Holtby made 27 saves to notch his 200th career victory, and John Carlson had a goal and an assist as Washington defeated Pittsburgh.
The Capitals’ T.J. Oshie scored the go-ahead goal, his seventh goal of the season, in the second period, and Chandler Stephenson added an insurance goal with 6:18 left. Jakub Vrana added an empty-netter to clinch Holtby’s fifth straight victory.
Phil Kessel was credited with the Penguins’ goal. Pittsburgh’s Sidney Crosby, playing in his 800th career game, was held without a goal for the 10th straight game. Murray stopped 27 shots for the Penguins.
Maple Leafs 3, Bruins 2 (OT)
Patrick Marleau scored at 1:07 of overtime to give Toronto a comeback victory over Boston.
David Pastrnak scored on a power play in the third period to give the Bruins the 2-1 lead. The Maple Leafs tied the game with one minute left in regulation on the second goal of the game by James van Riemsdyk, on a deflection.
Jake Gardiner shot from the right circle and Marleau redirected it for his seventh goal of the season, to end the overtime.
Patrice Bergeron also scored for Boston and Anton Khudobin made 30 saves. Frederik Andersen stopped 33 shots for Toronto.
Panthers 4, Sabres 1
Ian McCoshen scored 3:50 into the third period as Florida snapped a five-game losing streak.
Evgenii Dadonov, Aleksander Barkov and Vincent Trocheck also scored for the Panthers. Florida’s Roberto Luongo (24 saves) passed Curtis Joseph for fourth place all-time in wins by a goaltender, with 455. Luongo played in his 500th game with the Panthers on Tuesday.
Kyle Okposo scored for the Sabres, who were unable to string together back-to-back wins after a victory Tuesday against the Washington Capitals. Robin Lehner made 27 saves for Buffalo.
Hurricanes 3, Blue Jackets 1
Jordan Staal scored twice as Carolina defeated Columbus.
Staal scored the game-winner at 8:54 of the third period after scoring the tying goal 3:50 into the second period. Brock McGinn added an empty-net goal for the Hurricanes, who won consecutive games for the second time this season. Staal recorded his 12th career two-goal game and first since Feb. 25, 2012, for Pittsburgh against Tampa Bay.
Brandon Dubinsky scored for the Blue Jackets, who lost their fourth straight.
Golden Knights 5, Jets 2
William Karlsson scored two goals, including one short-handed, and David Perron and Luca Sbisa each had a goal and an assist to lead Las Vegas over Winnipeg.
James Neal scored his ninth goal of the season and Maxime Lagace stopped 24 shots to pick up his second win in seven games in net for the Golden Knights, who improved to 7-1-0 at home.
Patrik Laine and Adam Lowry scored goals for Winnipeg, which had an eight-game unbeaten streak snapped. It was the fourth straight game that Laine, who has eight goals, has scored.
Stars 5, Islanders 0
John Klingberg had a goal and two assists, and Ben Bishop stopped all 14 shots he faced to earn his 20th career shutout for Dallas.
Mattias Janmark, Esa Lindell, who also had an assist, Gemel Smith and Jason Spezza also scored for Dallas.


(Reuters) - Rickie Fowler continued his excellent start to the season on Friday, staying one stroke off the lead at 10-under par through 15 holes during a rain-shortened second day at the OHL Classic at Mayakoba.
The world number 10, making his first start since the Presidents Cup, will hope to finish his round at the El Camaleon Golf Club in Playa Del Carmen, Mexico on Saturday, although more wet weather is in the forecast.
The 28-year-old American is the highest ranked player in the field and was flocked by umbrella-carrying fans as he made his way around the course on Friday.
Patrick Rodgers made four straight birdies on the back nine to take the lead at 11-under par until rain and then darkness also delayed his round after 15 holes.
The 25-year-old former Stanford University standout has yet to make a bogey at the tournament.
Fowler shares second place with Patton Kizzire, who completed his round and carded a 70 on Friday, a day after he managed a career-low round of 62.
His biggest hiccup on Friday was a double bogey on the 10th hole amid the wet and windy conditions.
The 2005 OHL Classic champion Brian Gay shot a 65 in the morning to climb the leaderboard and end at 9-under par and tied for fourth with Brandon Harkins.
Jonathan Byrd gave the crowd a thrill when he hit a 135-yard tee shot for an ace on the par-3 8th hole, the second hole-in-one in as many days. On Thursday Kevin Mitchell used a 6-iron to hit an ace on the 10th hole.
Defending champion Pat Perez, who was five shots off the lead at the end of play on Thursday, could not sustain that level of play in the second round as he dropped down the leaderboard after carding a 74 that left him tied for 69th.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Edmonton Oilers placed forward Anton Slepyshev on injured reserve Friday.
Slepyshev, 23, suffered an apparent lower-body injury in Thursday night’s 3-2 overtime win over the New Jersey Devils. He scored a goal in the second period.
He has one goal and an assist in 10 games this season.
In a corresponding move, the Oilers recalled forward Jesse Puljujarvi from the American Hockey League’s Bakersfield Condors. Puljujarvi, 19, has appeared in 10 games with Bakersfield this season, posting one goal, four assists and four penalty minutes.
The Dallas Stars acquired defenseman Reece Scarlett from the Florida Panthers in exchange for defenseman Ludwig Bystrom, the teams announced.
Scarlett, 24, played in 13 games this season for the Springfield Thunderbirds of the AHL.
Bystrom, 23, appeared in six games during the 2017-18 season for the Texas Stars, Dallas’ top development affiliate in the AHL.
Also, Dallas recalled left winger Curtis McKenzie from its AHL team.
The Minnesota Wild reassigned goaltender Niklas Svedberg to the Iowa Wild of the AHL.
Svedberg, 28, was recalled under emergency conditions on Wednesday but did not appear in a game with Minnesota.
The Arizona Coyotes assigned forward Michael Sislo to the Tucson Roadrunners of the AHL.
Sislo, 29, was recalled Tuesday from the AHL affiliate but did not appear in a game with the Coyotes.


(The Sports Xchange) - Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said issues surrounding the ongoing negotiations to extend commissioner Roger Goodell’s contract, not the suspension of star running back Ezekiel Elliott are the reason he is threatening to sue the NFL.
Jones, who also is the team’s general manager, said he is “disappointed” the Cowboys likely will be without Elliott for the next six games but the possible lawsuit against the league and other owners has nothing to do with how he believes Elliott has been treated in the league’s investigation into domestic violence.
Jones emphasized to 105.3 The Fan in Dallas that his threatening a lawsuit only has to do with the handling of Goodell’s new contract.
“The facts are, the issues that involve the commissioner are far more reaching,” Jones told the Cowboys’ flagship network. “I’ve been dealing with this commissioner for almost 28 years, as an employee of the NFL. Zeke’s been involved here a year, a year and a half. Those are really separate issues as to Zeke. The policy that we have that has impacted Zeke is more of my issue with the commissioner, moreso than Zeke’s particular circumstance.”
Newly acquired New England Patriots tight end Martellus Bennett has been playing with a torn rotator cuff, according to multiple reports.
The Patriots claimed Bennett off waivers Thursday, one day after he was waived by the Green Bay Packers with the designation that he failed to disclose a physical condition.
The 30-year-old Bennett passed his physical with the Patriots on Friday and was on the practice field, rejoining the team with which he won a Super Bowl ring last season.
New York Jets running back Matt Forte was ruled out of Sunday’s game against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers because of a knee injury.
Forte missed practice for the third straight day with an injury described as swelling in his right knee. He had arthroscopic surgery on the same knee in January to fix a torn meniscus.
Forte was coming off his best game of the season in the 34-21 victory over the Buffalo Bills on Nov. 2 when he rushed for 77 yards on 14 carries and scored two touchdowns.
The Jets also listed three starters -- defensive end Muhammad Wilkerson (shoulder/foot), cornerback Morris Claiborne (foot) and guard Brian Winters (abdomen) -- as questionable for the game.
The Arizona Cardinals lost three players to season-ending injuries during Thursday night’s 22-16 loss to the Seattle Seahawks.
Cardinals coach Bruce Arians said Friday that left tackle D.J. Humphries has an MCL injury and a dislocated kneecap, safety Tyvon Branch suffered an ACL injury and tight end Ifeanyi Momah broke his leg during the game.
The Detroit Lions became the second team to give up on former number two overall pick Greg Robinson when they waived the offensive tackle.
Robinson was waived with an injury designation after missing the past two games due to an ankle ailment. The Lions are expected to use the roster opening to activate tackle Taylor Decker.


(Reuters) - Russia’s refusal to accept responsibility for widespread state-sponsored doping uncovered in the McLaren report could prevent its competitors taking part in the 2018 Winter Olympics, WADA director general Olivier Niggli said on Friday.
One of the 19 conditions the World Anti-Doping Agency laid out in a ‘Roadmap to Compliance’ requires the authorities responsible for Russia’s anti-doping program, including the Ministry of Sport and National Olympic Committee, to publicly accept the findings of the McLaren investigation.
The report by Canadian lawyer Richard McLaren found that more than 1,000 Russian competitors in more than 30 sports were involved in a conspiracy to conceal positive drug tests over a period of five years.
“We have one Roadmap that was agreed by everybody, including our board, and until there is a decision from the WADA board that this Road Map should be changed we are sticking to it,” Niggli told Reuters in a telephone interview from WADA’s Montreal headquarters.
“So yes, we will not consider that they have fulfilled the conditions as long as there are still conditions on the Roadmap that have not been fulfilled. We are not deviating from the agreed Roadmap.”
If Russia remains non-compliant with the WADA Anti-Doping Code it would be another obstacle standing in the way of the country being cleared to compete at next year’s Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea.
Countries and sports federations must be compliant with the WADA Code to be eligible for the Olympics with the International Olympic Committee (IOC) making the ultimate decision on participation.
WADA, which said on Friday it had obtained a database of Russian drug testing that confirms the allegations made in the McLaren report, will present its findings to the IOC before the Olympic Committee’s Dec. 5-7 executive board meeting when it is expected to decide Russia’s fate for February’s Winter Games.
WADA warned Russia in September to stop shifting blame for its doping scandals but the threat has not stopped the denials.
Russian President Vladimir Putin suggested on Thursday that allegations of a state-sponsored doping program were an attempt to sow discontent ahead of the country’s presidential elections and retaliation for alleged Russian meddling in the U.S. election.
The head of Russia’s cross-country skiing federation Elena Valbe threw more fuel on the fire on Friday by criticizing the IOC’s decision to ban six Russians for life from the Games, describing it as politically motivated.
”It is certainly unfortunate that we keep having this kind of rhetoric despite all the evidence that is now on the table,“ said Niggli. ”We’ve told the Russians the requirement is there for them to acknowledge the findings of the McLaren report.
“I honestly don’t understand why rather than accepting what happened and saying it and change things and move forward and they have done a lot of good work, they have a problem doing the last part.”
Niggli said the Russia issue will feature prominently on the agenda when WADA heads to Seoul for executive committee and Foundation Board meetings on Nov. 15-16.
Russian compliance will be discussed, Niggli said, but he could not say if WADA would make any recommendations to the IOC.
“Our mandate is to deal with the compliance of RUSADA (the Russian Anti-Doping Agency) but we will certainly have a full discussion about what the picture looks like and where we are in terms of Russia.”


MILAN (Reuters) - Top seed Andrey Rublev crushed a demoralized Borna Coric on Friday and must and now try to stop undefeated South Korean Chung Hyeon to win the inaugural Next Gen ATP Finals title.
Russian number one Rublev, the highest-ranked qualifier for the tournament at 37th in the world, dominated his fellow 20-year-old with superior firepower to win 4-1 4-3(6) 4-1 in little over an hour at the Fiera Milano.
Chung, ranked 54, followed Rublev into the final when he dispatched Russian, Daniil Medvedev, 4-1 4-1 3-4(4) 1-4 4-0.
It was too easy for Chung in the opening two sets but 65th-ranked Medvedev emerged from his slumber to make a match of it.
Chung re-asserted his authority in the third set, although he did have to save three break points when leading 2-0 -- letting out a huge roar as he made his way back to his seat.
He then broke again to finish the job.
Coric, who perhaps regretted battling back from two sets down to win his final round-robin match against Karen Khachanov despite already having qualified, looked jaded and took his frustration out on his racket.
Twice he broke frames in the third set as Rublev raced away to victory and a final against either Chung Hyeon or fellow Russian Daniil Medvedev who are in action later.
Coric was too passive in the first set but revived in the second after coach Christian Schneider told his player, through headphones, to “give me more energy”.
The Croatian got himself into a tiebreak but a poor forehand at 6-6 gave Rublev a second set point and he made no mistake.
One of the many innovations at the Next Gen Finals, the headphone exchanges between coach and player make for interesting listening for the crowd and TV audiences and Coric’s reaction to losing the second set was candid.
“I don’t know what to do any more,” he said, before crumbling to defeat.
Coric even became irate with one live Hawkeye call -- the system that has replaced human line judges at the event.
Rublev, who came into the tournament on the back of three straight defeats, said it was his best performance so far and hopes to reverse his crushing round-robin loss to Chung.
”We’ll see if I can change something,“ he told reporters. ”The first match here, I wasn’t playing that aggressive. I didn’t play that good. I was missing a lot.
“So I hope tomorrow I can show a better game.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said the reason he is threatening to sue the NFL are issues surrounding extending commissioner Roger Goodell’s contract, not the suspension of star running back Ezekiel Elliott.
Jones, who also is the team’s general manager, said he is “disappointed” the Cowboys likely will be without Elliott for the next six games but the possible lawsuit against the league and other owners has nothing to do with how he believes Elliott has been treated in the league’s investigation into domestic violence.
Jones emphasized to 105.3 The Fan in Dallas that his threatening a lawsuit only has to do with the handling of Goodell’s new contract.
”This is such an important matter in light of a lot of the things that are going on in the NFL right now,“ Jones said Friday. ”I basically feel this extension of Roger should go and be reviewed and approved by all the owners, not just a few of the owners.
”This is simply about making sure that all clubs have input into not only the commissioner’s (contract) extension, but also in future years his decisions. We all see how impactful a commissioner’s decision can be in many areas. We’ve given him a lot of power and I think we need the checks and balances of ownership having to actually be in a position to not just suggest but approve of his decisions. That’s what this is about.
“The committee that basically negotiates the salary with our commissioner is taking the view, especially the chairman (Atlanta Falcons owner Arthur Blank), that they in a limited group can complete this agreement,” Jones said. “I disagree. I think we should, with all of the interest and commitment that you have throughout the ownership.”
Jones said the issues go beyond the decision to suspend Elliott, who had his latest legal motion denied by the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York on Thursday, meaning his six-game NFL suspension is back in effect.
Goodell suspended Elliott for six games on Aug. 11 after a 13-month investigation concluded he was in violation of the league’s personal-conduct policy for an incident in the summer of 2016.
Elliott, who was not arrested or charged in the case, maintains his innocence after being accused of assaulting former girlfriend Tiffany Thompson in Columbus, Ohio.
His next court date is set for Dec. 1, after the NFL Players Association requested an expedited appeal of Thursday’s decision.
“The facts are, the issues that involve the commissioner are far more reaching,” Jones said. “I’ve been dealing with this commissioner for almost 28 years, as an employee of the NFL. Zeke’s been involved here a year, a year and a half. Those are really separate issues as to Zeke. The policy that we have that has impacted Zeke is more of my issue with the commissioner.”


(Reuters) - Three-time Olympic gold medalist Aly Raisman said she was sexually abused by former USA Gymnastics’ team physician Larry Nassar, according to an interview with CBS News program “60 Minutes” that will air on Sunday.
The American gymnast is the most prominent athlete to come forward so far about Nassar, who is in jail awaiting sentencing after pleading guilty to federal child pornography charges.
“I am angry. I‘m really upset,” Raisman, who captained the ‘Final Five’ U.S. women to the most dominant Olympic victory in the team event at the 2016 Rio Games, said in a clip released by “60 Minutes.”
“When I see these young girls that come up to me, and they ask for pictures or autographs, whatever it is ... I just want to create change so that they never, ever have to go through this.”
Nassar’s attorneys, Matt Newburg and Shannon Smith, each said that due to a gag order imposed they had no comment.
According to “60 Minutes,” more than 130 women, many of them former athletes, have filed civil lawsuits alleging that Nassar, who was involved with USA Gymnastics for nearly three decades before his tenure ended in 2015, sexually abused them under the guise of treating them for hip, back and other athletic injuries.
Nassar, once a team doctor for Olympians at USA Gymnastics and a former employee at Michigan State University, has pled not guilty to charges of sexual assault.
The 23-year-old Raisman was first treated by Nassar when she was 15. She details the abuse allegations in a new book called “Fierce” that offers new insights into a scandal that goes to the highest level of her sport.
Raisman is the second member of the ‘Fierce Five’ gymnasts who won a team gold at the 2012 London Olympics to allege abuse by Nassar, joining McKayla Maroney.
Maroney, who could not be reached for comment, said last month on Twitter that Nassar’s abuse of her began when she was 13 and was disguised as “medically necessary treatment.”
USA Gymnastics conducted a review of its procedures for handling sexual misconduct issues following reports last year that the organization turned a blind eye to allegations.
Steve Penny resigned in March as head of USA Gymnastics and the federation adopted a number of reforms in June that it said will help to better prevent and respond to future cases of abuse.
USA Gymnastics, which this week announced Kerry Perry as the organization’s new president and chief executive, commended Raisman for coming forward.
“We are appalled by the conduct of which Larry Nassar is accused, and we are very sorry that any athlete has been harmed during her or his gymnastics career,” said USA Gymnastics.
“Aly’s passion and concern for athlete safety is shared by USA Gymnastics.”
Raisman, who is calling for major changes at USA Gymnastics, the national governing body for her sport, was asked in the interview why Nassar’s accusers did not speak up sooner.
“Why are we looking at why didn’t the girls speak up? Why not look at ‘What about the culture?'” said Raisman. “What did USA Gymnastics do, and Larry Nassar do, to manipulate these girls so much that they are so afraid to speak up?”


SAO PAULO (Reuters) - Lewis Hamilton, with four world championship stars freshly painted on his race helmet, smashed the Interlagos track record as Mercedes dominated Brazilian Grand Prix practice on Friday.
Showing no let up after clinching his fourth world title in Mexico two weeks ago, Hamilton was quickest in both sessions with a best time of one minute 09.202 seconds in the sunny morning session.
Finnish team mate Valtteri Bottas was second in both and ended up just 0.048 slower.
”It’s been a good day,“ said Hamilton, who arrived at Interlagos on Thursday nursing a cold and will be chasing his 10th win of the season on Sunday. ”It was pretty exciting to come to the track with the cars being so much faster this year.
“Unfortunately the tires don’t last very long so you only get one or two laps on the short runs. Overall, we got through what we needed to do. We’re in a decent position but I think it could be quite close.”
The previous track record of 1:09.822 was set by Brazilian Rubens Barrichello in 2004 qualifying for Ferrari.
Hamilton, who accused Renault’s Nico Hulkenberg over the radio of dangerous driving in forcing him wide onto the runoff in the morning, was half a second faster than Ferrari’s Kimi Raikkonen before lunch.
The Finn had been closest to the Mercedes duo in the first session but Australian Daniel Ricciardo filled that position later on for Red Bull.
His 20-year-old Dutch team mate Max Verstappen, winner of two of the last four races, was fourth and fifth on the respective timesheets.
Team principal Christian Horner said Red Bull had played it safe due to reliability concerns and the need to make the engine last.
Ricciardo will have a 10-place grid penalty for Sunday’s race, after a change of his Renault power unit, while both drivers for the Red Bull-owned Toro Rosso team suffered costly failures.
“I think they (Renault) are really struggling to understand what are the root cause of these issues,” said Horner.
“So we’re running super-safe and conservative in these sessions, which explains quite a bit of the deficit to the Mercedes at the moment.”
Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel, who had an early spin, was sixth and fourth respectively.
“Mercedes looked very strong so I think they are a bit ahead, both of them,” said Vettel, who has won four times this year. “Then I think it is very close between us and Red Bull.”
Mercedes have clinched the constructors’ championship for a fourth successive year and experimented with processes and parts for 2018.
With none of the top four teams able to improve their placings or in any danger of dropping down the order, others were also turning their thoughts to next year.
“Obviously, both cars have got bits that they (the engineers) are having a look at for future events,” said Horner.
New Zealander Brendon Hartley, who won the world endurance championship for the second time last weekend, failed to set a time on the morning of his 28th birthday thanks to an engine blowup while French rookie Pierre Gasly also stopped early on.
“I don’t know the track so for me it was really important to get some running,” said Gasly before both went out in the afternoon.
British driver George Russell, the 19-year-old GP3 champion, made his grand prix weekend debut with Force India and was an impressive 12th fastest at an unfamiliar circuit and in a car he had not driven before.


MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Australian swimming coach Scott Volkers, a former mentor to Olympic and world champions, has been arrested and charged with multiple counts of child abuse, state media reported.
Volkers was arrested on Friday and is due to appear in court next month in Queensland state, the report said.
“A 59-year-old Sunshine Coast man has today been charged with five counts of indecent treatment of a child,” Queensland police said in a statement.
“The man was arrested by State Crime Command’s Child Abuse and Sexual Crime Group. He will appear in the Maroochydore Magistrates Court on Nov. 13, 2017.”
Local media said Volkers would fight the charges.
“It’s been 15 years I’ve been subject to this,” News Ltd media quoted him as saying.
Volkers coached twice Olympic champion Susie O‘Neill and two-times world breaststroke champion Sam Riley.
He was arrested in Australia in 2002 on charges of indecent behavior.
The charges were dropped for lack of evidence but he was banned from working with children under age 16.
He has consistently denied the allegations against him.
Volkers moved to Brazil in 2011 and became the swimming coach at the Minas Tennis Club in Belo Horizonte, which has produced some of Brazil’s best swimmers.
He coached Brazil’s Olympic gold medallist Cesar Cielo but was excluded from the nation’s team at the Rio Olympics last year at the request of Australian Olympic Committee.


(Reuters) - Ryan Armour notched four successive birdies on his way to a second-round 68 and a one-shot lead at the Sanderson Farms Championship in Mississippi on Friday.
Armour got a little tentative on fast greens on his back nine but made it home safely to post a 10-under-par 134 halfway total at the Country Club of Jackson.
Tyrone Van Aswegen overcame a double-bogey and a bogey by reeling off 10 birdies, including two chip-ins, for a day’s best seven-under 65 to trail Armour by a stroke.
Vaughn Taylor shot 66 to sit two back on a day when 30 players failed to complete the round before a series of afternoon thunderstorms halted play for the day.
Irishman Seamus Power was best placed, two shots behind with two holes left.
Armour once took Tiger Woods to 19 holes in the final of the 1993 U.S. Amateur Championship, but as professionals their careers went in different directions.
While Woods went on to win 14 major championships, Armour has never finished better than fourth in 104 starts on the PGA Tour, and only once before has enjoyed the 36-hole lead.
“I love it, that’s why we play,” he said of being out front.
He was thankful to negotiate his back nine in even par after some wayward drives.
“I drove it in the rough a little bit on that side, so getting away with some pars I feel blessed,” he said.
“The speed of the greens got away from me a little bit too, and I kept being one or two revolutions short on the birdie putts.”
Second-placed Van Aswegen said the key to his 65 had been maintaining a positive attitude after dropping two shots at his seventh hole.
“After that double I made it was basically a decision to just carry on and keep going because if you hang your shoulders your round is probably toast,” said Johannesburg-born Van Aswegen, who became a U.S. citizen in 2013.


(Reuters) - Anthony Rizzo of the Chicago Cubs was named the recipient of the 2017 Roberto Clemente Award on Friday for his charitable work on behalf of children with cancer.
Rizzo’s selection was announced by Major League Baseball Commissioner Rob Manfred at a news conference prior to Game Three of the World Series between the Houston Astros and visiting Los Angeles Dodgers.
The Cubs first baseman has been a champion for pediatric cancer patients and their families, especially following his own experience as a survivor of Hodgkin’s lymphoma.
Rizzo was a minor league player in the Boston Red Sox organization when he was diagnosed with Hodgkins Lymphoma in 2008. Through treatment, he beat the disease, and has since devoted many hours to helping others.
“It means a lot to me when I go into a hospital room and say hello to a kid and they light up like a Christmas tree, for five minutes of escaping the reality, because they’re going through treatment,” said Rizzo.
“They’re battling for their lives and I‘m just grateful to be able to go in there and say hello to them and make them escape reality for a second.”
The Anthony Rizzo Family Foundation was created to support children and families battling the disease and fund cancer research.
Through Rizzo’s foundation, the “Hope 44 Fund” was launched and provides financial assistance to families to offset medical costs so no family has to choose between paying a bill and saving their child’s life.
Baseball Hall of Famer Clemente, a 15-time All-Star outfielder for the Pittsburgh Pirates, died in a plane crash on New Year’s Eve 1972 while attempting to deliver supplies to earthquake victims in Nicaragua.
“Mr. Clemente was a true hero who dedicated his time to helping others. He set the bar high for what an athlete should be both on and off the field,” said Rizzo.
“As a cancer survivor, I know the challenges families face, watching loved ones fight this disease. I want to give them hope there is life after cancer.”


BASEL (Reuters) - Top seed Roger Federer was finally forced to work hard for a win at the Swiss Indoors tournament as he fought back to beat Adrian Mannarino 4-6 6-1 6-3 in his quarter-final on Friday.
The world number two, chasing an eighth title at his hometown tournament, had dropped only eight games as he breezed through the first two rounds but found his 28th-ranked opponent a much tougher nut to crack.
Mannarino took the first set and, although Federer cruised through the second, the Frenchman made him work hard again in the third before the Swiss completed the win.
Federer’s semi-final opponent on Saturday will be Belgian third seed David Goffin who beat American Jack Sock 7-6(6) 6-3 in the last of the night’s quarter-finals.
World number four Marin Cilic had an even harder time than Federer, needing two tiebreaks to beat 100th-ranked Hungarian Marton Fucsovics 7-6(3) 5-7 7-6(4) in just over three hours.
The Croat now faces Argentine Juan Martin del Potro, a late contender to snatch one of the last two places at the ATP World Tour Finals in London, who beat Roberto Bautista 6-2 2-6 6-4.


MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - New Zealander Brendon Hartley and French rookie Pierre Gasly are likely to be retained as Red Bull-owned Toro Rosso’s Formula One lineup next season, team principal Franz Tost said on Friday.
“We want to test them for the rest of the season because there is a high possibility that this will be the driver lineup for 2018,” the Austrian told reporters at the Mexican Grand Prix.
Dropped Russian Daniil Kvyat has meanwhile left the Red Bull driver program and is now a free agent.
Hartley was drafted in for the U.S. Grand Prix in Austin and is paired with Gasly, who missed the race in Texas, for the first time this weekend.
Kvyat, 23, was dropped by the Red Bull-owned team for the second time this season after last weekend’s race. He had already been demoted by Red Bull in 2016.
“(Kvyat) is not any more with Red Bull and therefore he is free to decide whatever he wants to do,” said Tost.
The principal said he was really happy that Le Mans 24 Hours winner Hartley, who tested for the team in 2009 and was then dropped, had returned and indicated clearly that he saw him in the car beyond this season.
”Brendon is a very high skilled driver, very committed, passionate for motorsport... if we give him a competitive car, he will be there and he will also fight in Formula One for success.
“And I hope that especially next year we will bring together a competitive package that he can also fight for victories and good positions,” added Tost, whose team are switching to Honda engines.
The Honda power unit has been woefully uncompetitive with McLaren this season.
Red Bull team boss Christian Horner said Hartley’s was a fantastic tale of redemption and determination.
”That is a guy who started off life on the junior program, he got dropped early on in his career -- there was no remorse, no ‘poor me’ or ‘haven’t I been badly treated’. He thanked Red Bull for the opportunity and endeavored to stay in touch.
“He had nothing else to race. He went back to racing Minis, to racing historic Formula One cars. Anything he could get his hands on, he raced. And he showed a passion and a commitment to keep doing what he believed in and himself as a race car driver.”
Hartley, now 27, then renewed the relationship with Red Bull when he joined the Porsche sportscar program and won the world endurance championship.
“I think it testimony to him, his determination and tenacity and skill and talent that he’s got himself back into a position that he’s been selected to be in the Toro Rosso car,” said Horner.
Kvyat, he said, had been given plenty of chances but ultimately “didn’t do enough to warrant retaining the seat.”


MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Red Bull’s Daniel Ricciardo reminded Lewis Hamilton on Friday that he has a fight on his hands to win the Mexican Grand Prix however inevitable the Mercedes’s driver’s fourth world championship may be.
Hamilton is on the brink of becoming Britain’s first four times world champion but he wants to do it with a victory on Sunday.
He is 66 points clear of Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel and needs only to finish fifth on Sunday to secure the title with two races to spare, even if the German wins.
The 32-year-old was the meat in a Red Bull sandwich in second practice at the Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez, however, with Ricciardo top of the timesheets with a lap of one minute 17.801 seconds.
Hamilton had a big spin and was 0.131 slower with Red Bull’s Max Verstappen third, 0.163 off his team mate’s time, despite an engine failure with an older power unit that was of no concern.
Vettel was fourth, and also with a hot backside after his car’s fire extinguisher went off beneath his seat half an hour into the session.
“On the long runs, I still think we could find a bit more,” said Ricciardo.
”On low fuel we are more or less there. Mercedes always have more on Saturday so I think we still need to find a few tenths if we want to stay ahead of them.
“I feel we can be a bit better on race pace and I think we can improve a few things. I think these last three races will be pretty close between the top three teams.”
Finland’s Valtteri Bottas had been fastest in the sunny morning session with a best lap of 1:17.824 also keeping Hamilton off the top. Verstappen and Ricciardo were third and fourth respectively.
Hamilton’s 2016 pole position time was 1:18.704.
The Briton said it had been a good day, even if it did not start out that way and he had put himself on the back foot by damaging a set of supersoft tyres in the spin.
“But the single lap and then the long run on the ultraSoft was probably one of the best I’ve ever done. I don’t think I’ve ever done 26 laps that consistent, apart from in the race maybe,” Hamilton said.
“We got lots of information, the track was feeling better in the second session once the temperature came up,” added last year’s race winner.
Sergio Perez was seventh fastest for Force India before lunch, with regular team mate Esteban Ocon sitting out the session to make way for Mexican Adolfo Celis Jr. to give the home crowd two drivers on track.
Ocon will not have enjoyed being a spectator as Celis put the Frenchman’s car backwards into the barriers at turn 16 and halted the session. Ocon returned to the cockpit after lunch and was 10th fastest.
New Zealander Brendon Hartley, preparing for his second race with Toro Rosso, managed only 10 laps in the morning with mechanics working on the car after he stopped on track. He was 13th fastest in the afternoon
There were also more problems for McLaren, with Belgian Stoffel Vandoorne sidelined completely as the team changed his car’s power unit to a spare. He already has a 35-place grid penalty.


MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Haas’s Danish driver Kevin Magnussen will require a fitness test before Saturday’s final practice at the Mexican Grand Prix after suffering a stomach bug.
Race stewards said in a statement on Friday that Magnussen, who took part in practice, had been granted permission to miss the evening driver’s briefing due to an “ongoing medical condition.”
“The FIA Medical Delegate will assess the condition of the driver in advance of P3 (third practice) tomorrow,” the statement added.
Haas principal Guenther Steiner told reporters that the driver had returned to the team hotel but expected to take part in qualifying and the race.
“He’s actually feeling a lot better,” he said. “But we wanted to get him back to the hotel so he rests, and also that he doesn’t give it to everyone.”
The Dane was 17th fastest in second practice.
Haas have Italian Antonio Giovinazzi, who took part in first practice on Friday, as reserve driver but Steiner was confident he would not be needed.


ANCIENT OLYMPIA, Greece (Reuters) - The torch for the Pyeongchang 2018 winter Olympics was lit in ancient Olympia on Tuesday using the backup flame from the dress rehearsal due to rainy weather, kicking off the countdown for the first winter Games in Asia outside Japan.
The run-up to the Feb. 9-25 Olympics has been overshadowed by the escalating crisis on the Korean peninsula triggered by North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile tests but organizers said the Games would be safe.
The traditional ceremony, introduced for the first time ahead of the 1936 Berlin Olympics, did not benefit this time from the Greek sun.
Light rain and clouds forced the high priestess, played by actress Katerina Lechou, to deploy Monday’s backup flame instead of the reflector used to light the flame with the sun’s rays.
“Our dream of hosting the Olympic winter Games has now become a reality. Korea is only the second Asian nation to have the honor of hosting the winter Games,” Games chief Lee Hee-beom said.
“We want the international community to understand that we are committed to hosting a safe and secure Olympic winter Games.”
The ceremony inside the stadium, site of the ancient Olympics, was also attended by South Korean Prime Minister Lee Nak-yeon, International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach and the President of Greece, Prokopis Pavlopoulos.
“The Olympic Games are sacred and universal,” Bach said.    “They stand above and beyond all the differences that divide us. In our fragile world that seems to be drifting apart, the Olympic Games have the power to unite humanity in all its diversity.”
Former Manchester United midfielder Park Ji-sung, among the most successful and decorated athletes from his country, was the first South Korean to run with the torch, picking up the flame from Greece’s Nordic skier Apostolos Aggelis, the first torch-bearer, just outside the ancient stadium.
“We will make sure to show the world how we have grown up, how we can organize this sports event,” Park told reporters after his short run.
“This is bigger than Seoul (summer Olympics) 1988. These are the largest winter Olympics ever and I am excited to be part of it.”    The flame is due to arrive in South Korea on Nov. 1 for the start of the domestic torch relay as organizers look to boost local enthusiasm amid low ticket sales.
Tensions on the Korean peninsula have risen in recent months as Kim Jong Un and U.S. President Donald Trump exchanged threats and insults over the North’s nuclear and missile development program.


PALM BEACH GARDENS, Fla. (Reuters) - Tiger Woods on Friday pleaded guilty in a Florida court to reckless driving and entered a program for first-time offenders, avoiding a conviction on the charge of driving under the influence (DUI) last spring.
The 41-year-old professional golfer was found asleep in May behind the wheel of a Mercedes-Benz, which was parked alongside a road not far from his home on Jupiter Island.
Woods entered his plea and accepted the conditions, including 12 months of probation, by responding to questions from Florida Circuit Judge Sandra Bosso-Pardo. He will now enter a diversion program offered in Palm Beach County for first-time DUI offenders.
Woods is eligible for the program since he had no prior criminal record, cooperated with police and was not involved in a crash, said Dave Aronberg, state attorney for the 15th Judicial Circuit of Florida.
Woods has already completed 50 hours of community service as part of the program, said Aronberg.
“This particular plea agreement has no jail time,” Bosso-Pardo told Woods during the hearing. “However, if you violate your probation in any significant way, I could revoke your probation and sentence you to jail for 90 days. Is that understood?”
Woods replied: “Yes.”
The hearing lasted only a few minutes. Woods, dressed in a charcoal gray suit and a gray T-shirt, did not answer questions shouted by reporters as he left the courthouse in Palm Beach Gardens and was driven away in a black SUV.
Woods told police officers at the time of his arrest that he was returning from Los Angeles, but could not remember where he was going, even though his car was headed away from his home, the arrest report showed.
Woods had five drugs in his system when he was arrested, but no alcohol, according to a toxicology report. Those drugs included generic forms of the painkillers Vicodin and Dilaudid; the mood drug Xanax; the sleeping pill Ambien, and a drug that contained THC, the active ingredient in marijuana.
If Woods completes the program, the reckless driving charge will be expunged from his record. But if he is arrested again for DUI, he will be treated as a second-time offender, Aronberg said.
In a statement after his arrest, Woods apologized to fans and blamed the incident on prescription medication he was taking to manage pain from a recent back surgery.
Woods, who is second on the all-time list with 14 major men’s golf titles, has not won a major championship since 2008.
In 2009, he was involved in a bizarre early-morning car crash outside his home near Orlando. The incident ballooned into a sex scandal involving allegations of extramarital affairs, and ended both his marriage and some lucrative endorsement deals.


NEW YORK (Reuters) - The owner of the National Football League’s Houston Texans apologized on Friday for using a figure of speech that compared players to “inmates” as he discussed protests staged during the national anthem ahead of games.
An article in ESPN The Magazine, posted online on Friday, quoted Bob McNair as saying in a meeting, “We can’t have the inmates running the prison,” as he exhorted other owners to consider how the protests could hurt the league’s bottom line.
“I regret that I used that expression,” McNair, 79, said in a statement. “I never meant to offend anyone and I was not referring to our players. I used a figure of speech that was never intended to be taken literally.”
A number of players, mostly African-American, have knelt or raised fists during the “Star-Spangled Banner” to protest the treatment of minorities by police officers and racial inequality in the criminal justice system. Others have stood arm-in-arm in a show of solidarity.
President Donald Trump escalated the controversy in September, when he suggested owners should fire any “son of a bitch” who refused to stand for the anthem.
Trump has portrayed kneeling as an insult to the military and has kept up his attacks on Twitter, fueling further demonstrations.
The subject dominated a two-day meeting earlier this month in New York among league executives and team owners, where McNair is said to have made the comment. The league ultimately rejected Trump’s call for protesting players to be punished.
ESPN reported later on Friday that several Texans players considered staging a walkout over McNair’s comments and that at least one player, wide receiver DeAndre Hopkins, skipped practice.
McNair, a billionaire, gave money to Trump’s presidential campaign last year, as did many other NFL owners.
The protests began in 2016 when Colin Kaepernick, then a San Francisco 49ers quarterback, began sitting and later kneeling during the anthem to call attention to police shootings of unarmed black men in the United States.
Kaepernick was not signed by any team after becoming a free agent following the 2016 season. He has filed a claim of illegal collusion against the league’s owners.
A Seton Hall University poll on Friday found 47 percent of respondents believe the NFL should order players to stand during the anthem, while 42 percent do not.
Most people, by a 55-to-37 percent margin, also said it was inappropriate for Trump to launch a recent petition on the Republican National Committee website saying the players should stand.


MADRID (Reuters) - - European 5,000 meter champion Ilias Fifa and eight other athletes have been provisionally released by police after their arrest on Wednesday for alleged links to a doping network, Spanish legal officials said on Friday.
However the case against the nine remains open.
Fifa was arrested at his home in Santa Coloma de Gramanet on the outskirts of Barcelona on Wednesday during a series of raids across the country for what was described as “the use of medicines which pose serious danger to health.”    The athlete, along with five others from the region have all been provisionally released from custody after exercising their right to not declare in front of regional judges.
Fifa’s agent did not reply to a Reuters request for comment on the case.
“The six athletes have been given provisional freedom with the obligation to appear in front of the judge twice a month, having given up their passports and are banned from leaving Spanish territory,” a judiciary statement from the Mataro (Catalonia) judge’s office said, in reference to the six local athletes.
Similar conditions have been imposed on the three from outside Catalonia. Fifa, 28, won the 5,000 meters gold at the 2016 European Athletics Championship in Amsterdam, taking advantage of the absence of Britain’s Mo Farah who skipped the event to concentrate on the Rio Olympics.
Born in Morocco, he has been competing under the Spanish flag since 2015 after arriving in the country a decade earlier hidden in a truck. The Royal Spanish Athletics Federation (RFEA) said on Wednesday they learned about the arrest through the media and backed police work against doping.    “We show our total respect for police and judicial actions,” an RFEA statement said. “This federation is conscious of the damage doping causes to the credibility and image of our sport and are firmly committed to the fight against this blight.”


(Reuters) - Los Angeles Dodgers starting pitcher Yu Darvish will return to familiar surroundings when he makes his World Series debut on Friday against the host Houston Astros.
The Japanese right-hander has made many trips to the home of the Astros since breaking into the major leagues in 2012 having pitched five seasons for their cross-state rival, the Texas Rangers.
But Darvish, who boasts a 4-1 record and stellar 2.16 earned run average in six career starts at Houston’s Minute Maid Park, dismissed any notion that having enjoyed success in the stadium before gives him any edge.
“I feel like it doesn’t really matter. It’s better to know that I’ve pitched here before. But (Friday‘s) game, it could be totally different from my previous outings, here,” Darvish said through a translator.
“But like I said, it’s better to know this stadium and I pitched here before. Maybe it will give me a little bit of an advantage, but it really doesn’t matter.”
But for the Dodgers, Darvish’s familiarity pitching in the Astros’ ballpark could be a key reason why they decided to start him in Houston, where the best-of-seven series resumes after the teams split the first two games in Los Angeles.
Darvish also has plenty of familiarity with the Astros lineup having started against them 14 times -- all as a member of the Rangers -- and has a record of 5-5 with a 3.44 ERA.
And while Darvish has changed his delivery, pace and pitch selection since joining the Dodgers in July, he said that will not alter how he approaches the Houston hitters.
“Me, personally, like I really don’t change much going into tomorrow’s outing, but to them I‘m a different kind of pitcher, different type of pitcher in my pitch selection. So they feel I may have a different approach,” said Darvish.
The Astros have watched plenty of video footage on Darvish and noticed the changes he has made but said playoff baseball is unpredictable and you can go into a game expecting one thing from a pitcher and get something totally different.
For their part, the Astros said they have a simple game plan: get a pitch to hit.
“He’s got 15 pitches you have to deal with, from different angles, and he can reach back and have velocity. Tomorrow is going to be a big start for him, I know he’ll be at his best,” said Astros manager A.J. Hinch.
”But if you can get him in the strike zone, like any pitcher in the Big Leagues, we’ve done damage to every good pitcher in the strike zone. When we expand, it’s tough.
“So for us having familiarity will help a little bit, but when you get to Game 3 of the World Series, the competition will be at a unique level. And we’ll see how he adjusts or do we adjust.”


(Reuters) - World number one Dustin Johnson reaped magic from a new putter to card a sparkling nine-under 63 and take a one-shot lead at the halfway mark of the WGC-HSBC Champions event in Shanghai on Friday.
Bidding for his third World Golf Championships title of the year, Johnson moved to a 13-under total of 131, one in front of overnight leader Brooks Koepka with Justin Rose four strokes off the lead on nine-under, joint third with Kiradech Aphibarnrat.
Disappointed with his work on the greens during an opening round of 68, Johnson grabbed a fresh putter and, after just 20 minutes of practice, put it to brilliant use on the back nine at Sheshan Golf Club.
Four behind at the start of the day, the rangy American rolled in seven birdies after the turn, including four in succession on his last four holes.
“Obviously I played very well today, I actually got a putter about 20 minutes before I teed off,” the 2016 U.S. Open winner said after his bogey-free round.
”I wasn’t really pleased with the one I played with yesterday.
“I was coming from the range when I grabbed (the new one). I had a few putts on the practice green ... and then I came out and holed a few putts.”
After opening with two straight birdies, U.S. Open champion Koepka laboured through a frustrating run of 13 straight pars before breaking the birdie drought on the par-four 16th.
Another birdie on 17 gave him the chance to reel in Johnson on the par-five 18th but he had to be content with a closing par after burning the edge of the cup with a putt from six feet.
Henrik Stenson remains in contention after shooting a 69. The Swede sits six strokes behind Johnson and level with Matt Kuchar (70) in a group of four on seven-under.
Former world number one Jason Day, however, endured a torrid 74 littered with five bogeys and is 12 off the pace on one-under with Phil Mickelson (72).
Hideki Matsuyama’s title defense appears all but over after the Japanese carded a second straight 74.


(Reuters) - Australian swimmer Cate Campbell professed a new-found love for her sport after breaking the 100 meters freestyle short course world record upon her return from a long break.
The 25-year-old clocked a time of 50.25 seconds at the Australian Short Course Swimming Championships in Adelaide to beat Swede Sarah Sjostrom’s record time by 0.33 seconds.
It was Campbell’s first competition since the 2016 Rio Olympics where she failed to medal in the 50 and 100 freestyle events.
The former 100 freestyle world champion described her Rio campaign as “possibly the greatest choke in Olympic history” and took a prolonged hiatus, opting out of the world championships earlier this year.
“I’ve come back refreshed and I’ve got a new love for the sport, a new perspective and I‘m more motivated than ever for the Commonwealth Games,” Campbell said after her record-breaking performance on Thursday.
”It’s great to be swimming fast. I’ve put together some really good solid weeks of training and I’ve really been working hard.
“It’s great to see it’s really starting to pay off.”
Campbell, who won the 100 freestyle world title in Barcelona in 2013, is now targeting the Commonwealth Games at the Gold Coast in 2018, followed by the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights from National Basketball Association games on Thursday:
Pelicans 114, Kings 106
DeMarcus Cousins totaled 41 points and 23 rebounds in his return to Sacramento as the New Orleans Pelicans rallied for a 114-106 victory over the Kings on Thursday.
Cousins, who heard a mix of boos and cheers in pregame introductions, shot 14 of 23 and came within one of his career high for rebounds.
Jrue Holliday added 20 points while reserve Jameer Nelson contributed 18 as New Orleans won without Anthony Davis (knee) by overcoming a 19-point deficit.
Clippers 104, Trail Blazers 103
Blake Griffin hit a 3-pointer at the buzzer to lift Los Angeles to a dramatic victory over Portland.
The Clippers had five double-digit scorers, led by Griffin with 25 points. Center DeAndre Jordan grabbed a game-high 18 rebounds to go with seven points.
Celtics 96, Bucks 89
Al Horford scored 27 points and Kyrie Irving finished with 24 as the Boston beat Milwaukee.
Horford and Irving combined to shoot 21-for-32 from the floor, including 6-for-9 on 3-point attempts, but the rest of the Celtics’ offense struggled. Boston shot just 42.3 percent overall.
Grizzlies 96, Mavericks 91
Marc Gasol scored 25 points and grabbed 13 rebounds as Memphis held off a furious rally by the Dallas.
Mike Conley scored nine of his 22 points in the fourth quarter for Memphis.
Bulls 91, Hawks 86
Robin Lopez scored 16 points as Chicago beat Atlanta for its first win of the season.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Hockey League games on Thursday:
Lightning 3, Red Wings 2
The two hottest players on the hottest team in the NHL continue to play at another level as Nikita Kucherov and Steven Stamkos each scored again to lead the Tampa Bay Lightning to a 3-2 victory over the Detroit Red Wings on Thursday night.
Stamkos scored the game-winning goal on the power play in the third period on an assist from Kucherov with 13:38 left. Both have scored points in all 11 games, matching the Lightning team record to start a season set by Martin St. Louis in 2009. Tampa Bay (9-1-1) is off to its best start in franchise history.
For Kucherov, it was his 12th goal of the season, extending his NHL lead. Stamkos went into the night leading the NHL in points (20) with three goals and a league-best 17 assists.
Panthers 8, Ducks 3
Radim Vrbata produced a hat trick and rookie first-round pick Owen Tippett scored his first NHL goal as Florida routed Anaheim.
Vrbata, who signed a one-year, free-agent contract with Florida on July 1, had not scored in his first eight games with the Panthers before recording his seventh career hat trick. Aleksander Barkov also starred for the Panthers with a goal and two assists.
Penguins 2, Jets 1 (overtime)
Phil Kessel scored his 300th career goal on a breakaway at 1:07 of overtime to lift Pittsburgh over Winnipeg.
Kessel got the puck on a turnover by Patrik Laine at the far blue line, zoomed down the ice and tucked the puck under the pads of Jets goaltender Connor Hellebuyk. The Penguins’ Conor Sheary and Winnipeg’s Josh Morrissey scored in the first period for a 1-1 tie.
Oilers 5, Stars 4
Matt Benning scored the winning goal with 2:27 left in the third period as Edmonton erupted for a season-high in goals to beat Dallas.
Ryan-Nugent Hopkins scored twice while Connor McDavid, Patrick Maroon and Benning added singles in the Oilers’ second win in seven games. Edmonton came into the game averaging an NHL-worst 1.88 goals.
Canucks 6, Capitals 2
Sven Baertschi scored two power-play goals and collected an assist as Vancouver won its fourth straight game.
Derek Dorsett scored his team-leading sixth goal and added an assist for Vancouver. Other goals came from Thomas Vanek, Bo Horvat and Markus Granlund. Brock Boeser recorded three power-play assists.
Hurricanes 6, Maple Leafs 3
Josh Jooris scored twice and Victor Rask notched the go-ahead goal in the second period as Carolina topped Toronto.
Teuvo Teravainen, Elias Lindholm and Brock McGinn also scored for the Hurricanes, who had lost their two previous games. Teravainen and Haydn Fleury each added two assists while Scott Darling made 31 saves for Carolina.
Kings 4, Canadiens 0
Jonathan Quick made a season-high 40 saves as Los Angeles blanked Montreal.
Quick posted his 46th career shutout and second of the season as the Kings swept the season series after posting a 5-1 home win last week. Rookie Adrian Kempe, Tyler Toffoli, Anze Kopitar and Kurtis MacDermid scored for Los Angeles.
Wild 6, Islanders 4
Eric Staal and rookie Luke Kunin scored short-handed goals to lift Minnesota past New York.
Staal scored his 18th career short-handed goal to give the Wild a 3-0 lead late in the first period and then assisted on Kunin’s short-handed goal in the second. Marcus Foligno, Jason Zucker, Jonas Brodin and Zack Mitchell added even-strength goals for Minnesota.
Bruins 2, Sharks 1
Danton Heinen, recalled from the minor leagues earlier in the day, scored his first two NHL goals, and Anton Khudobin stopped 36 shots to lead Boston over San Jose.
Heinen, who had three assists in three games with the Bruins earlier this month, scored a short-handed goal in the first period and at even strength to break a 1-1 tie at 13:27 of the second. Khudobin, playing his third straight game for the injured Tuukka Rask, allowed only a power-play goal to former Boston captain Joe Thornton 10:40 into the second period.
Rangers 5, Coyotes 2
Pavel Buchnevich scored twice as New York kept Arizona winless.
Michael Grabner also had two goals, adding an empty-netter with 35.6 seconds remaining. Chris Kreider had the other goal for the Rangers, who received 27 saves from backup goaltender Ondrej Pavelec in his second start of the season. New York’s Boo Nieves had three assists in his season debut.
Senators 5, Flyers 4
Jean-Gabriel Pageau recorded a goal and two assists as Ottawa survived a late-game scare to defeat Philadelphia.


(Reuters) - Columbus goalkeeper Zack Steffen saved two Atlanta United penalties in a shootout on Thursday as the Crew advanced to the Major League Soccer semi-finals 3-1 after neither team could break the deadlock through extra time.
Steffen got down smartly to save from Julian Gressel then saved Leandro Gonzalez Pirez’s weak effort. Jeff Larentowicz hit the post with Atlanta’s fourth kick.
Crew substitute Adam Jahn scored the clincher in the shootout to silence the near 70,000 fans at Mercedez-Benz Stadium in Atlanta.
The Western Conference knockout match between Houston and Sporting Kansas City also failed to produce a goal in the regulation 90 minutes, but Honduras international Alberth Elis scored the winner for the Dynamo early in the first extra period.
In Atlanta, the result ended an otherwise impressive first season by the expansion Atlanta team, who set league attendance records and played an eye-catching brand of football led by South American duo Miguel Almiron and Josef Martinez.
The Crew, who have one of the lowest attendance records in the league and an owner threatening to move the franchise to Austin unless the city of Columbus builds a new stadium, go on to an Eastern Conference semi-final against New York City FC.
“It was my time to do my job,” Steffen said after the game, describing the victory as “the biggest” of his short career.
Apart from the shootout, the 22-year-old from Pennsylvania, signed from German club Freiberg in 2016, also made a series of fine saves during the match.
None was better than the one in the 65th minute when he launched himself to the left to turn away a header by Atlanta defender Pirez.
“We had a game plan and we stuck to it and got it done,” Steffen said. “This is huge. This goes back to the city of Columbus.”
The Dynamo, meanwhile, dominated Kansas City but left it late to clinch victory and earn a Western Conference semi-final against the top seed Portland Timbers.
Elis slotted home the winner from close range in the fourth minute of the first extra period after substitute Vicente Sanchez got to the byline and cut the ball back to his team mate.
Honduras international Elis scored for his country in a World Cup qualifier against Mexico earlier this month, a game Honduras won 3-2 to advance to a two leg playoff against Australia for a spot in Russia 2018.
Elis, however, is suspended for the first leg against Australia on Nov 10.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Baltimore Ravens lost quarterback Joe Flacco to a concussion and still managed to snap the Miami Dolphins’ three-game winning streak with a dominant 40-0 victory on Thursday.
Flacco was injured on a hard hit by Miami linebacker Kiko Alonso after a 9-yard run late in the second quarter. Alonso was penalized for a personal foul and had his helmet knocked off by Baltimore center Ryan Jensen in retaliation.
After the play, Ravens coach John Harbaugh also got into a verbal altercation with Alonso and had to be held back by an official.
Backup Ryan Mallett entered and threw a 2-yard touchdown pass to Benjamin Watson, who beat Alonso on the play, to give Baltimore (4-4) a commanding 20-0 lead just before halftime.
Ravens running back Alex Collins had a career-high 113 yards on 18 carries against a Dolphins defense that entered the game ranked fifth against the run.
Baltimore linebacker C.J. Mosley returned an interception 63 yards for a touchdown for a 26-0 lead with 14:16 left in the game.
Frustration boiled over for the Dolphins (4-3) with 6:59 remaining when defensive end William Hayes was flagged for another unnecessary roughness penalty. Miami defensive tackle Ndamukong Suh also appeared to grab Mallett by the neck.
Ravens running back Javorius “Buck” Allen fumbled on the next play, but receiver Chris Moore recovered in the end zone and Baltimore led 33-0.
Jimmy Smith capped a stellar day by the Baltimore defense with a 50-yard interception return for a touchdown that rounded out the scoring.
It was the largest shutout margin in Ravens history.
Dolphins quarterback Matt Moore, who was making his first start of the season for the injured Jay Cutler, struggled much of the night, going 25 for 44 for 176 yards with two interceptions. He had a 47.1 passer rating.
Flacco was 10 of 15 for 101 yards and a touchdown before exiting. Mallett completed 3 of 7 passes for 20 yards and a score.
Baltimore wound up with a 295-196 edge in total yards.
The Ravens took a 7-0 lead on a 35-yard touchdown pass from Flacco to Jeremy Maclin with 8:19 left in the opening quarter. Miami appeared to be caught off-guard with Baltimore’s no-huddle and was flagged for 12 players on the field.
Justin Tucker boosted the lead early in the second quarter with a pair of field goals from 55 and 48 yards. Mallett’s touchdown pass to Watson with 1:56 remaining gave Baltimore a 20-0 cushion at the break.


(Reuters) - American skier Lindsey Vonn will compete in this weekend’s season-opening World Cup giant slalom in Austria as she starts her competitive build-up to the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, she said on Thursday.
Vonn, who has not competed in the discipline since early 2016, made a late decision to start her season earlier than usual in an effort to build a decent world ranking and earn a good starting slot at February’s Games in South Korea.
With the Winter Games fast approaching, Vonn said she does not plan to take any risks on Saturday in Soelden.
“The biggest thing this season is staying healthy, so I really don’t want to take any chances,” she told a news conference.
“I just want to ski solid. My solid skiing is enough to get in the top 15. That’s all I really need.”
Vonn has four World Cup giant slalom victories, but it is not her strongest event.
She won the 2010 Olympic women’s downhill but was unable to defend in 2014 after a series of knee injuries.
She also missed much of last season after suffering a broken arm in a training crash.


(Reuters) - The Houston Astros plan to keep the roof closed at their Minute Maid Park for Game Three of the World Series against the Los Angeles Dodgers on Friday in a bid to feed off the electric atmosphere created by their fans.
The Astros head back to Houston for three games after splitting the first two of the series on the road.
The Astros have yet to win a World Series title but have momentum on their side after coming from behind to win a thrilling Game Two in extra innings on Wednesday.
They are also 6-0 at home in postseason games this year.
“We want it closed. We’ve got to have it closed,” Astros reliever Chris Devenski told reporters on Thursday.
”I feel the electricity when it’s closed and it is so much better. And we love playing here.
“We have so much excitement being here and the electricity and the vibe. And I feel like we feed off of it.”
Astros manager A.J. Hinch said the roof would be closed to prevent rain from getting on the field but acknowledged the closed environment amplified the volume of the team’s passionate, orange-clad fans.
Rain is forecast for Houston on Friday, although Saturday and Sunday are expected to be sunny for Games Four and Five.
“It was one of the loudest stadiums the last series and I expect it to be the same,” Hinch said of the series against the New York Yankees, in which they lost three on the road and won all four at home.
“It is a great environment at home. I think that’s what makes people feel good.”
Astros third baseman Alex Bregman was also keen for the roof to remain closed.
“But no matter if it’s opened or closed, we’re going to take it one pitch at a time,” he added.


(Reuters) - The Houston Astros’ stunning Game Two win in the World Series has caught the attention of one of the city’s other professional teams with the NFL’s Texans finding it hard not to take a break from preparing for their next game.
The Astros beat the host Los Angeles Dodgers 7-6 on Wednesday in a game that had several twists and turns and was deemed an instant classic by many observers, with the teams combining for a record five extra-inning home runs.
The Texans, one game out of first place in their division, were preparing for Sunday’s clash against the Seattle Seahawks while the Astros used a late power surge to rally back in dramatic fashion to level the series at 1-1.
“I was here with the staff and we were game-planning but we have a TV in the corner of our offensive staff room and we had it on,” said Houston Texans head coach Bill O‘Brien.
“To think about what they did, it’s got to be one of the top five World Series games of all time, to hit that many home runs in extra innings.”
After a back-and-forth affair it was George Springer’s two-run homer at the top of the 11th that gave the Astros the lead for good and their first World Series game win in franchise history.
The best-of-seven series shifts to Texas for the next three games starting on Friday at Minute Maid Park.
“I know that it’s a travel day today so they’ll be back at it tomorrow in Houston and I know that place will be rocking,” said O‘Brien.
”We’re so supportive of them. I think it’s great for the city any time you have a team rolling toward a championship.”


BASEL, Switzerland (Reuters) - Top seed Roger Federer needed less than an hour to dispatch Benoit Paire 6-1 6-3 and reach the quarter-finals of the Swiss Indoors tournament on Thursday -- treating his home fans to another masterclass.
The 36-year-old, chasing an eighth Basel title, has dropped only eight games in two rounds and looks in razor-sharp form as his quest for the year-end number one ranking continues.
Twice former champion Juan Martin Del Potro also looked menacing as the fourth seed marched through to the last eight with a 6-4 6-4 defeat of French qualifier Julien Benneteau.
The Argentine is emerging as a late contender to snatch one of the last two places at the ATP World Tour Finals in London and would move into the final spot by winning the Swiss title thanks to fellow contender Pablo Carreno Busta’s loss in Vienna.
Del Potro faces Spain’s Roberto Bautista Agut next.
”I‘m not thinking too much about London,“ said Del Potro, who won the Stockholm title last week. ”I just want to keep going and see if I can go far here. Once I finish this tournament we’ll see if I‘m in good condition to play the next one.
“Tomorrow (Friday) I have to play at a very high level, because Bautista-Agut is one of the toughest guys on tour.”
Arriving late for a Federer match is not advisable as the 19-times major champion is clearly in no mood to offer more entertainment than is required.
He was pushed hard by the unpredictable Paire in his opening service game but thereafter toyed with his opponent as the Swiss reached the quarters in Basel for the 15th time.
Federer faced no break points and finished off the contest with a forehand winner before being given yet another standing ovation by the adoring crowd packed inside the arena.
Federer, who can still topple Spaniard Rafael Nadal from the top of the rankings by the end of the year, will face Paire’s compatriot Adrian Mannarino who beat Canadian youngster Denis Shapovalov 4-6 6-1 6-2 in the late match.
In an all-Croatian battle second seed Marin Cilic also needed a decider to see off Borna Coric, winning 6-3 3-6 6-3.


MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - McLaren drivers Fernando Alonso and Stoffel Vandoorne expect to start Sunday’s Mexican Grand Prix from the back row after incurring hefty grid penalties for engine changes.
“Unfortunately I think we will have to change the engine again,” double Formula One world champion Alonso told reporters at the Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez circuit on Thursday.
”We will start at the back. Probably this circuit is not the preferred one for our package anyway so we expect not to be super-competitive here.
“Maybe it is the best place to take the penalty and hopefully invest in Brazil and Abu Dhabi with this new engine,” added the Spaniard, who expected a complete swap of power unit components.
Former champions McLaren are ninth in the championship and 20 points adrift of eighth-placed Haas with three races remaining.
Their season has been beset by reliability problems with the Honda engines, triggering the decision to switch to Renault power next year.
”We’re taking some engine penalties this weekend, because we know it’s a tricky weekend for us,“ Vandoorne told reporters. ”I think for me it will be the full package, so 35 places.
“To be honest, I know how to deal with these situations now,” added the Belgian.


SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Venus Williams gained revenge for her Wimbledon final defeat by Garbine Muguruza when the American advanced to the last four of the WTA Finals with a gutsy 7-5 6-4 victory over the Spanish world number two on Thursday.
Both players knew a win would secure a passage to the semi-finals as they held identical 1-1 records in White Group play at the season-ending event but the 37-year-old was stronger on the key points and moved brilliantly around the court to progress.
Muguruza had brushed aside Williams to claim her second grand slam title in July but any hopes she had of repeating the feat were snuffed out by a resolute opponent, who simply refused to buckle in the tense Singapore Indoor Stadium encounter.
“I played an amazing opponent who has had an amazing year so I was so happy to win the last point,” Williams said in a courtside interview.
The victory enabled Williams, who won this event in 2008, to advance along with pool winner Karolina Pliskova, who won her first two matches but ended round-robin play with a 6-3 6-1 defeat by Jelena Ostapenko earlier on Thursday.
The winner-takes-all showdown started with Williams looking to dictate terms, pushing Muguruza around the court and attacking her second serve as the Spaniard countered by pushing the American back with her deep groundstrokes.
The 37-year-old continued to pick away at the Muguruza serve but an ace and a string of big forehand winners helped stave off the early threat as both combatants took the fight to each other in a high-class encounter.
The pair traded service breaks before Muguruza failed to hold on and send the opener into a tiebreak when Williams converted her third set point after the back-peddling Spaniard dumped a forehand into the net.
Muguruza’s repeated attempts to pull clear in the second were denied by Williams on every occasion with the American twice battling back from behind to edge 5-4 ahead with her strongest service game of the set.
The American made a concerted push for victory in the 10th game and sealed a memorable victory after an hour and 41 minutes when Muguruza sent another feeble forehand into the net.
“It’s not easy out here, you have to play every point well or you end up losing the game. I had some great coaching going into my match and I hope I can win some more,” Williams added.
Earlier, Ostapenko ended her maiden WTA Finals campaign on a winning note with a surprisingly easy victory over a subdued Pliskova, the Latvian saving her best until last after she was eliminated earlier in the week.
World number three Pliskova won her opening two matches against Williams and Muguruza to book a semi-final berth but the Czech was out-gunned by an inspired French Open champion in 66 minutes.
Ostapenko had battled hard in her opening matches to no avail, especially in a grueling three-set loss to Williams, but she served brilliantly against Pliskova and found the corners with her booming forehand to end her season with a win.
“Yes, I lost my earlier two matches but it’s my first time here and I am just happy to finish my season here, in the top eight, especially with a win at the end,” Ostapenko said.
Caroline Wozniacki has already advanced from the Red Group with one round of matches remaining, while Simona Halep, Caroline Garcia and Elina Svitolina can all still qualify alongside the Dane when play concludes in that pool on Friday.


(Reuters) - Joe Girardi’s tenure with the New York Yankees, who came within one win of a World Series berth this year, has come to an end after the Major League Baseball team said on Thursday he would not return as manager in 2018.
Girardi, who won a World Series title in 2009 and guided the Yankees to the post-season in six of his 10 seasons as manager, had just concluded a four-year, $16 million contract with the storied ball club.
“I want to thank Joe for his 10 years of hard work and service to this organization,” Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman said in a statement.
“Everything this organization does is done with careful and thorough consideration, and we’ve decided to pursue alternatives for the managerial position.”
The Yankees did not name a replacement.
Girardi’s exit is the latest high-profile managerial change announced during the MLB postseason and follows similar moves by the Yankees’ arch-rival Boston Red Sox, who fired John Farrell, and Washington Nationals, who cut Dusty Baker loose.
After managing the Florida Marlins for one season in 2006, Girardi took over the Yankees in 2008 and in his second season with the club led them to their 27th World Series title.
Girardi compiled a 910-710 record while at the helm of one of baseball’s most storied franchises and his win total ranks sixth in Yankees history.
He also won three championships with the Yankees as a player  and is one of three individuals in franchise history to play for and manage a Yankees World Championship team.
While the 53-year-old did lead the Yankees on an unexpectedly deep playoff run, his post-season was marred by a managerial mistake during a Game Two loss to the Cleveland Indians in the American League Division Series.
After that game, Girardi accepted responsibility for not challenging a call that would have ended an inning with his team up five runs rather than load the bases and lead to the Yankees’ biggest blown lead in a playoff game since 2002.
After the Yankees were eliminated from the post-season by Houston, Girardi said he planned to sit down with his family to discuss their future.
Girardi, in a separate statement, said that he appreciated the organization having given him the opportunity to lead the team for the last decade.
“With a heavy heart, I come to you because the Yankees have decided not to bring me back,” said Girardi.
”I would like to thank the players for the relationships that we have fostered over the last 10 years but most important, how hard they played every day.
“Finally, I’d like to thank the fans for their great support as a player, coach and manager, and the lasting memories of their passion and excitement during the playoff games, especially the final six games, which will remain in my heart forever.”


SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Swiss great Martina Hingis has announced she will retire from tennis at the end of this week’s WTA Finals, where the 37-year-old multiple grand slam champion is playing in the doubles tournament alongside Taiwan’s Chan Yung-jan.
“Looking back now, it’s hard to believe that almost exactly 23 years ago I made my professional debut,” Hingis said on Facebook on Thursday.
“The years that followed have been some of the most rewarding years of my life, both personally and professionally, but I believe the time has come for me to retire, which I will be doing after my last match here in Singapore.”
The retirement will be Hingis’s third in a long and illustrious career during which she claimed 25 grand slam titles since her WTA Tour debut in 1994, five in singles, seven in mixed doubles and 13 in women’s doubles.
Hingis first decided to end her career as a 22-year-old in 2003 due to persistent injuries after picking up all five of her singles crowns as a teenager, comprising three Australian Opens,  as well as lone Wimbledon and U.S. Open titles from 1997-99.
The Swiss returned to the tour in 2006 and although she found more success in doubles than singles, she retired for a second time a year later after being handed a two-year ban for testing positive for cocaine.
The right-hander returned to the sport for a third time in 2013 and has enjoyed another successful spell of doubles tennis in the latest comeback, winning four women’s and six mixed grand slam titles from 2015-17.
Hingis and Chan opened their WTA Finals campaign with a 6-3 6-2 quarter-final victory over German-Czech duo Anna-Lena Gronefeld and Kveta Peschke, following which the Swiss elaborated on the decision to end her playing career.
“I’ll be always part of the game of tennis. Somehow we will be connected. I will definitely take some time out. I have done coaching before. I can help my mom, her tennis school. I will be connected,” she said.
”I am really looking forward to the things and challenges which will be ahead of me, but I think I also deserve some time away from the game, although I‘m not going to walk away. I will be always part and this will always be part of my life.
“I‘m definitely not going to miss that day-in, day-out grind, practicing, waking up. Maybe I will miss it after a while but in a different way. And the traveling, it’s also one thing at the start I definitely won’t miss anymore.”
The Swiss also spent 209 weeks as world number one and has won the season-ending WTA Finals twice in singles, three times in doubles and claimed a 2016 Olympic silver medal in women’s doubles with compatriot Timea Bacsinszky.
”Well, I think now it’s definite,“ she added. ”So it’s different, because before I was, like, okay, I walked away, thinking I might come back, and if I didn‘t, so that was it.
“So it’s a different way now and I think it’s the right thing to do this time around.”


MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - McLaren’s Fernando Alonso will compete in next January’s Daytona 24 Hours sportscar race as preparation for an eventual tilt at Le Mans.
The United Autosports team owned by McLaren executive director Zak Brown announced the move on Thursday.
Alonso, a double Formula One world champion who is competing in this weekend’s Mexican Grand Prix, made a big impression last May when he entered the Indianapolis 500 and led for 27 laps.
He has set his sights on becoming only the second driver, after Briton Graham Hill, to win motorsport’s Triple Crown.
That entails winning the Formula One title, or Monaco Grand Prix according to other interpretations, as well as Indianapolis and Le Mans.
Alonso, 36, has won Monaco as well as his 2004 and 2005 world titles. He recently signed a contract extension keeping him at McLaren in 2018.
“The Daytona 24 Hours is the most iconic U.S. endurance race and one of the world’s great races. Everyone knows it,” said the Spaniard.
”It’s not part of the Triple Crown but, as I have always said, my aim is to be a complete driver and this experience will help me in the preparation for any other endurance race I might take part in.
“I am excited to go back and race in America,” he added.
“After the great time I had during the month of May for the Indy 500, I am looking forward to taking part in another legendary race that will bring back all those amazing sensations that US fans gave me.”
Daytona comes before the start of Formula One’s pre-season testing when drivers are mostly working on physical preparation for the year ahead.
Le Mans, on June 16-17, does not clash with any grand prix - unlike Indianapolis which is on the same weekend as the showcase Monaco race.
Alonso will partner British teenagers Lando Norris, the McLaren development driver tipped to take a reserve role next season, and Phil Hanson.
Daytona, in Florida, will be the first time the Spaniard has raced a prototype sportscar.


ROME (Reuters) - Italian sports authorities must do more to root out anti-Semitism in stadiums and apply sanctions against offending fans, the head of the country’s Jewish communities said on Thursday.
She was reacting to an anti-Semitic outburst by Lazio fans, who pasted stickers of Holocaust victim Anne Frank wearing the jersey of their rivals AS Roma at Rome’s Olympic Stadium.
“There is a new way of expressing anti-Semitism and sports is one of them,” Noemi Di Segni told Reuters.
The episode last Sunday was widely condemned and on Wednesday night a passage from Anne Franks’ diary was read out loud at the start of Serie A matches during what was billed as “a moment of reflection”.
Lazio players wore T-shirts bearing Anne Frank’s picture and the slogan “No to Anti-Semitism” over their jerseys at the start of their away game against Bologna. Copies of her diary were handed out to children.
“Much, much more needs to be done. What was done last night was an important gesture, but it’s absolutely not enough,” said Di Segni, the chief non-religious representative of Italy’s some 25,000 Jews.
“We need more legality,” she said. “Sanctions need to be applied. If there are rules, they need to be applied. If people behave badly they need to be sanctioned and this is not happening right now.”
Some Lazio fans chanted a Fascist-era song during Wednesday’s match, leading Italy’s leading sports newspaper La Gazzetta dello Sport to write “The shame has no end.”
According to Italian media reports, police have identified 20 people who are suspected of having placed the Anne Frank stickers and anti-Semitic slogans at the stadium, including several who had been previously banned for hooliganism.
On Tuesday, Lazio Chairman Claudio Lotito and other team officials laid a wreath of flowers at Rome’s synagogue in an effort to made amends with the Jewish community.
“Coming to the synagogue and saying I‘m sorry to us is not enough. He (Lotito) needs to say ‘I‘m sorry’ to civil society,” she said, because the stadium incident “was not just an offense to the Jewish people but to all civil society”.
Young people from the Jewish community later threw the wreath into the nearby Tiber River following the broadcasting of a phone conversation in which Lotito is alleged to have belittled his gesture as something he had to do for “show”.
Di Segni said, however, that the wreath of flowers should not have been thrown into the river. The Jewish community should not “speak the same language as them,” she said, referring to the sometimes-violent soccer fans.
Episodes of racism are commonplace in Italian soccer, and Lazio supporters, who have a reputation for right-wing extremism, have often run into trouble with the authorities.
Di Segni said she hoped the episode would lead to greater awareness of anti-Semitism in general.
“It is important to focus on the education of young people. Television and sports have so much power and the media has to understand that they can do a lot (to help),” she said.
Anne Frank was born in Germany but her family fled to the Netherlands to escape the Nazi takeover. They lived in hidden rooms in Amsterdam before they were discovered by German occupiers and deported to concentration camps.
She died in the Bergen-Belsen camp, aged 15, and her diary recounting the family’s time in hiding became a centerpiece of Holocaust literature.


SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Venus Williams let her tennis do the talking after she avenged her Wimbledon final defeat by Garbine Muguruza to battle past the Spaniard and into the WTA Finals semi-finals on Thursday.
The 37-year-old American and second-ranked Spaniard went into the encounter with 1-1 records in round-robin play and Williams, making her first appearance in the event since 2009, emerged with a 7-5 6-4 victory to progress to the last four.
“I‘m pretty used to going home after losing, so I knew what the stakes were,” a taciturn Williams told reporters when asked about her approach to the winner-takes-all White Group showdown.
Williams refused to dwell on the one hour, 41 minute encounter, instead saying she had already shifted the focus to her next match against the Red Group winner, most likely to be Denmark’s Caroline Wozniacki.
“I‘m just focused on Saturday, trying to win again. So I don’t know if my levels dropped in the second set (against Muguruza),” she added, before praising the strong crowd support in Singapore where she is appearing for the first time.
Muguruza, who beat Williams 7-5 6-0 at Wimbledon, admitted she was baffled by her inability to overcome her veteran opponent after following up Tuesday’s group loss to Karolina Pliskova with another painful defeat.
“I wasn’t trying to get frustrated, because I knew I wasn’t playing my best tennis,” the 24-year-old said.
“I was just trying to be calm, to not get crazy and kind of waiting for my opportunity. And it didn’t come. In important moments, she stepped up and turned it around.”
Despite the disappointment, Muguruza was keen to highlight what a great year she had experienced after adding the Wimbledon title to her 2016 French Open triumph.
“I‘m very proud of this year. It’s not going to change. I knew here that it’s going to be tough, the best eight players are playing,” she added.
“My year has been incredible and best so far. I improved so many things and that’s what I‘m going to take from it.”


BOSTON (Reuters) - A 16-year-old Massachusetts teenager who finished first in a regional tournament this week was denied the trophy and an opportunity to play at the state high school golf championships because she is female, according to a local media report.
High schooler Emily Nash, 16, shot a three-over-par 75 at the Central Massachusetts Division 3 boys’ golf tournament on Tuesday, four strokes ahead of the runner up, the Worcester Telegram & Gazette reported.
Her team did not qualify as a group to compete in the state championships and she will not be allowed to play as an individual under the rules of the Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Association.
“I was definitely disappointed, but I understand that there are rules in place,” Nash told the newspaper. “I don’t think people expected for this to happen, so they didn’t really know how to react to it. None of us are mad at the MIAA or anything like that, but I was definitely a little bit disappointed.”
Nash could not be reached for immediate comment and an MIAA official did not immediately respond to a request for comment.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Hockey League games on Wednesday:
Blue Jackets 5, Sabres 1
The Columbus Blue Jackets scored three second-period goals in a three-minute span and halted a two-game home losing streak with a 5-1 victory over the Buffalo Sabres on Wednesday night at Nationwide Arena.
The Blue Jackets (6-3-0) extended their franchise-best start to the season with their first win during a four-game homestand that ends Friday night against the Winnipeg Jets.
Seth Jones had a goal and an assist, Oliver Bjorkstrand scored on a power play, and Nick Foligno, Matt Calvert and Josh Anderson added the other Columbus goals. Sergei Bobrovsky finished with 34 saves.
The Sabres (3-6-2) had won two in a row but were thwarted in their bid for their first three-game winning streak since February. They were playing for the second straight night after beating the Detroit Wings 1-0 in Buffalo on Tuesday.
Blues 5, Flames 2
Alexander Steen had a goal and three assists, and Paul Stastny added a goal and an assist as the St. Louis Blues beat the Calgary Flames 5-2 on Wednesday night.
Jaden Schwartz, Alex Pietrangelo and Joel Edmundson also scored for the Blues (7-2-1), who improved to 3-0-0 at home. Goalie Jake Allen made 23 saves.
Mikael Backlund scored both Flames goals as Calgary (5-5-0) lost for the third time in four games.
Flames goalie Eddie Lack, playing for the first time this season, made 24 saves. It was his first career loss to the Blues after winning his previous six games against St. Louis.
It was Backlund’s 10th career multi-goal game.


(Reuters) - The New York Red Bulls and Vancouver Whitecaps both posted emphatic victories as the Major League Soccer (MLS) playoffs kicked off with two one-sided matches on Wednesday.
In the Eastern Conference, two early goals paved the way for the New York Red Bulls’ 4-0 victory over Chicago which eliminated the Fire from the playoffs.
In the Western Conference, the Vancouver Whitecaps were equally dominant as they thrashed the San Jose Earthquakes 5-0.
Chicago were hosting the knockout match but their home ground provided little advantage as Bradley Wright-Phillips and Sacha Kljestan put the visitors 2-0 up inside 11 minutes at Toyota Park in Bridgeview, Illinois.
The Fire, making their first playoff appearance in five years, offered precious little in the first half and while they were more threatening after the break they could not make it count.
Chicago midfielder Bastian Schweinsteiger, who has played only 19 minutes over the previous seven games due to leg injuries, came on in the 65th minute but had barely touched the ball before Daniel Royer scored a third for the Red Bulls.
Gonzalo Veron added a fourth late on to pad the margin.
“I can’t really compliment the boys enough,” English striker Wright-Phillips said in a pitch-side interview. “It was a real professional performance.”
The win puts the Red Bulls into a two-leg Eastern Conference semi-final against a rampant Toronto FC, who had a first-round bye after setting a record for the most points in an MLS regular season -- 69 in 34 games.
The Red Bulls had finished the regular season sixth in the conference, 19 points behind Toronto, while Chicago were third on 55 points.
“We know Toronto are going to pose a huge challenge. I think they’re probably the best team in MLS history,” New York captain Kljestan said.
“We’re going up against (Sebastian) Giovinco and (Jozy) Altidore and Victor Vazquez, the three-headed monster. It’s going to be very tough but I like our chances.”
In Vancouver, the hosts turned in a scintillating performance in a game highlighted by a 28-yard free kick goal by midfielder Cristian Techera.
He curled a left-footed strike over the wall and just inside the near post to put the Whitecaps up 2-0 in the 57th minute and break San Jose’s resistance.
Fellow Uruguayan Nicolas Mezquida joined the party with two late goals, while Fredy Montera and Kendall Watson also got on the scoresheet.
Vancouver will face the defending MLS champion Seattle Sounders in a Western semi-final.


BOSTON (Reuters) - Canada thrashed the United States 5-1 on Wednesday in a grudge match between the two teams most likely to compete for the women’s ice hockey gold medal at the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang.
Canada forward Natalie Spooner scored twice and goaltender Genevieve Lacasse stopped 37 shots in the win. A dominant Canadian penalty kill left the Americans 0-10 on the power play and produced one short-handed goal.
In front of a sell-out crowd at Boston University’s Agganis Arena, which included 12 members of the 1998 gold-medal winning American team, defender Emily Pfalzer scored the United States’ only goal.
“Our girls played fearless tonight,” Canadian coach Laura Schuler said. “They were blocking shots, and getting pucks to the wall and doing the little things they needed to do.”
The game was the second of an exhibition series ahead of the Pyeongchang Games between the only two women’s ice hockey teams to have won Olympic gold. Team USA won the first game 5-2 on Sunday in Quebec City.
U.S. coach Robb Stauber said their failure to score on their 10 power plays was a key factor in the loss.
“You’re not going to win too many games going 0-for-10, so that’s number one,” he said.
Canada opened the scoring in the first period on a two-on-one rush as Spooner, her team’s scoring leader, put away a feed from line mate Meghan Agosta.
The Americans tied the game later in the period on an unassisted goal from Pfalzer.
Canada took the lead for good early in the second period on a shorthanded goal. After a turnover by the Americans inside their own zone, Canadian winger Jillian Saulnier fed streaking defender Laura Fortino, who tipped the puck past goaltender Nicole Hensley.
The Canadians scored twice late in the period, with Spooner netting her second on a scramble in front of the net. Then, with just 15 seconds remaining, Agosta slapped a shot past Hensley, who was replaced by Alex Rigsby at the start of the third.
Marie-Philip Poulin rounded out the scoring in the third period, lifting a wrist shot past Rigsby after a turnover in the Americans’ zone.
The two lopsided wins stand in stark contrast to the narrow margins that have typically decided games between the rivals.
At the Sochi Games in 2014, Canada took the gold medal in a 3-2 come-from-behind win in overtime. Earlier this year the Americans beat Canada 3-2, again in overtime, to capture the women’s world championship.
”I don’t know if there’s an explanation for it,“ Spooner said of the latest results. ”I don’t think that last game we really brought our best game.
“Today we brought a much more aggressive game.”
The Pyeongchang Winter Games run from Feb. 9 to 21 next year.


NEW YORK (Reuters) - A former Guatemalan judge who once served as a general secretary of the executive board of the Central American country’s soccer federation was sentenced to eight months in prison on Wednesday, the first person to be sentenced in a U.S. probe into bribery surrounding world soccer governing body FIFA.
Hector Trujillo, 64, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Pamela Chen in Brooklyn, New York. Trujillo had pleaded guilty to wire fraud and conspiracy in June, admitting that he took kickbacks from a marketing company in exchange for his help securing media and marketing rights for World Cup qualifying matches.
At least 42 people and entities have been charged in a U.S. probe into the payment of more than $200 million of bribes and kickbacks to soccer officials, in exchange for marketing and broadcast rights ahead of the 2018 and 2022 World Cup soccer tournaments.
Before being sentenced, Trujillo said through an interpreter that he had thought of the payments as reward for his hard work, and as “common practice.”
“I have to admit that my conscience failed me,” he said. “My own moral judgment failed me.”
Trujillo, a former judge on the Constitutional Court of Guatemala, asked to be allowed to return to Guatemala without serving any prison time, saying he had already suffered enough in the nearly two years spent in the United States since his arrest, apart from his family.
Chen, however, said that would send the “wrong message” to others participating in what U.S. prosecutors have called a pervasive culture of corruption in sport.
The sentence was less than the 33 to 41 months called for by federal sentencing guidelines. Chen said she decided on her sentence in part by considering similar cases, including that of former U.S. Representative Michael Grimm of New York, who was sentenced to eight months for tax evasion.
Chen also said Trujillo, along with other defendants, would be liable for $415,000 in restitution, but ordered more briefing from attorneys to decide how it would be paid.
Trujillo was arrested in December 2015 on a Disney cruise ship docked in Port Canaveral, Florida. U.S. prosecutors charged that he accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes, to be shared with other Guatemalan soccer officials.
One of those other officials was Brayan Jimenez, who had served as president of Guatemala’s soccer federation, prosecutors said.
Jimenez pleaded guilty last July to racketeering conspiracy and wire fraud conspiracy charges. He has not been sentenced.
FIFA suspended Guatemala’s soccer federation in October 2016.


(The Sports Xchange) - Pittsburgh Steelers wide receiver Martavis Bryant was demoted to the scout team on Wednesday and is expected to be inactive for Sunday night’s game against the Detroit Lions.
The 25-year-old Bryant told reporters Wednesday he is not playing Sunday. When asked why, Bryant said, “Social media.”
Bryant told reporters after Wednesday’s practice he is frustrated.
Bryant was targeted twice and caught one pass for 3 yards during last Sunday’s 29-14 win over the Cincinnati Bengals.
Out-of-work free agent quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who began the movement of NFL players protesting by kneeling during national anthem while he was playing for the San Francisco 49ers last year, is expected to be invited to the next meeting between owners and players.
The meeting is scheduled Tuesday in New York, but there is no confirmation whether Kaepernick will attend.
NFL spokesman Joe Lockhart said he expects Kaepernick will be invited, according to ESPN. The invitation would be extended by the players, not the league, Lockhart said.
The Cleveland Browns are staying with rookie quarterback DeShone Kizer, naming him the starter for Sunday’s game in London against the Minnesota Vikings.
Coach Hue Jackson announced that Kizer, who was benched in the second half after throwing two interceptions last Sunday against the Tennessee Titans, will make his second straight start.
Kizer was pulled for the second time in three games. Cody Kessler took his place in Sunday’s 12-9 overtime loss to the Titans. Kizer also was benched in Week 5 for Kevin Hogan, who started the sixth game for the winless Browns.
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers placed defensive end Noah Spence on injured reserve after he suffered another dislocated shoulder against the Buffalo Bills.
Spence, the Bucs’ 2016 second-round draft pick, was injured in Sunday’s 30-27 loss -- his fourth shoulder dislocation in the past two seasons, including two this year. The injury will require more surgery, the team announced.
The Buccaneers also signed defensive end Darryl Tapp and cornerback Deji Olatoye.
The Seattle Seahawks added veteran defensive end Dwight Freeney to bolster their pass-rushing depth as the two sides agreed to terms on a one-year contract.
The 37-year-old Freeney spent the first 11 seasons of his career in Indianapolis, earning Pro Bowl honors seven times and first-team All-Pro honors three times.
The Chicago Bears acquired wide receiver Dontrelle Inman from the Los Angeles Chargers for a conditional draft pick.
Chargers coach Anthony Lynn confirmed the trade, but did not reveal specifics. ESPN’s Adam Schefter cited sources as saying that the conditional pick is a seventh-round selection in 2018 and will be based on Inman’s production this season.
Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Carson Wentz was named NFC Offensive Player of the Week for his four-touchdown passing performance in Monday night’s win over the Washington Redskins.
The NFL also announced that Oakland Raiders wide receiver Amari Cooper took the AFC offensive honor in Week 7 as he made 11 catches for 210 yards and two touchdowns in Sunday’s 31-30 comeback win over the Kansas City Chiefs.
Chicago Bears safety Eddie Jackson was named the NFC Defensive Player of the Week after his 75-yard fumble return for a touchdown and 76-yard interception return for a score in the 17-3 win over the Carolina Panthers.


(The Sports Xchange) - Philadelphia 76ers guard Markelle Fultz will miss the next three games due to discomfort in his right shoulder, the team announced Wednesday.
Fultz, who was the No. 1 overall pick of the 2017 draft, will miss Wednesday’s home game against Houston as well as road contests versus the Dallas Mavericks (Saturday) and Rockets (Monday). The 19-year-old will travel with the team and be re-evaluated Tuesday, the team said.
Fultz has played in each of Philadelphia’s four games and is averaging 6.0 points on 9-of-27 shooting. His free-throw shooting has also been poor as he made just 6 of 12 attempts.
Fultz tallied just two points in 16 minutes during Monday’s win over the Detroit Pistons.
New Orleans Pelicans All-Star forward Anthony Davis, who played only the first five minutes before departing with a left knee injury in Tuesday night’s game, is considered day-to-day.
Coach Alvin Gentry said after the Pelicans’ 103-93 loss to the Portland Trail Blazers that an MRI on Davis’ left knee came back negative.
Davis, 24, appeared to tweak the knee in the first quarter and may have aggravated it while battling for a long rebound. He did not return after exiting the game.
Veteran point guard Tony Parker is getting closer to a return and will begin a rehab assignment with the Austin Spurs, the G League affiliate of the San Antonio Spurs.
Parker, 35, is recovering from a torn quadriceps tendon suffered during the Western Conference semifinals last spring. He was cleared by doctors to participate in training camp last month and is being brought along slowly by the organization.
Parker averaged 10.1 points in 63 regular season games last season -- his lowest total since his 2001-02 rookie campaign.


BASEL, Switzerland (Reuters) - Juan Martin del Potro’s quest for an unlikely spot in the ATP World Tour Finals gathered pace as he beat Portugal’s Joao Sousa in his opening match at the Swiss Indoors on Wednesday.
The Argentine, twice champion in Basel, maintained the form he showed last week in capturing his first title of the year in Stockholm by overpowering Sousa 6-1 4-6 6-1.
Fourth seed Del Potro will face French qualifier Julien Benneteau in the last 16 at the St Jakobs Hall, where hometown favorite Roger Federer is bidding for an eighth title.
It looked being a quick assignment for the former U.S. Open champion as he blazed away with his power game but a lapse at 4-4 in the second set allowed Sousa to break and level.
But Del Potro stamped his authority on the decider.
“I need to improve my game a little bit for tomorrow and see if I can keep winning because I’d like to spend more days in Basel,” the fourth seed said.
Del Potro began the tournament 14th on the ATP Race to London list but with several players above him missing the rest of the season, the door is still open for the 29-year-old to sneak into the prestigious year-ender in London.
Should he win the title in Basel he would be breathing down the neck of Spain’s Pablo Carreno Busta, currently holding the last of the eight spots heading into next week’s Paris Masters.
Six places have already been taken, but Belgium’s David Goffin is also in the mix after beating South Korea’s Chung Hyeon 6-4 6-1 to move into the third round in Basel.
American Sam Querrey and South Africa’s Kevin Anderson are also in with a chance of making London as is France’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga.
Croatian youngster Borna Coric set up a meeting with second-seeded compatriot Marin Cilic when he came back from squandering set points in the opener to beat Swiss Henri Laaksonen 6-7(8) 6-1 6-3 in one of the day’s other first-round matches.
Top seed Federer, bidding to catch Rafa Nadal and finish a resurgent year as number one in the rankings, returns to action on Thursday when he takes on Frenchman Benoit Paire.


(Reuters) - Colin Kaepernick, who popularized the controversial gesture of kneeling during the U.S. national anthem, will likely be invited to a meeting with the NFL to discuss social issues and protests, the league said on Wednesday.
NFL spokesman Joe Lockhart told a conference call that a meeting between the league, the NFL Players Association (NFLPA) and players will be held early next week and that he expected the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback to be invited.
“He has been in discussion with the players coalition. I expect he will be invited to this meeting,” Lockhart said of Kaepernick, who began kneeling last year as a way to protest against racial injustice in the United States.
“We look forward to him joining the conversation with the NFLPA, the league and players coalition but I don’t have any confirmation that he is planning to attend.”
The players coalition, which is a group led by NFL players, invites players to the events.
Former San Francisco 49er quarterback Kaepernick, 29, has been unemployed this season despite injuries at other teams that have created job openings. Some experts attribute his political activism as the key reason teams are wary of signing him.
He opted out of his contract with the 49ers in the offseason but has said his agent reached out to all 32 teams to make sure they were aware of his interest in playing this season.
His political stance has inspired many NFL players to kneel in protest during renditions of the national anthem, most notably last month after U.S. President Donald Trump said kneeling players should be fired for disrespecting the country.
The NFL weighed the fervor of players protesting about racism against Trump’s anger during a regularly scheduled autumn meeting in New York City last week that was attended by team owners, players and their union’s leaders.
At that meeting the NFL did not seek commitments from its players to stop kneeling during pre-game renditions of the national anthem but rather focused on helping them in their political activism and said they would meet again soon.
Kaepernick was invited to last week’s gathering in New York by the players coalition but has not yet attended any of the recent meetings with the league.


(Reuters) - There was a “noteworthy” rise in the number of positive results from worldwide drugs tests last year, the World Anti-Doping Agency said in a report released on Wednesday.
WADA’s report showed banned substances were found in 4,822 samples from 300,565 tests (1.6 percent) carried out globally last year -- up from 1.26 percent in 2015, when there were 3,809 adverse analytical findings from 303,369 samples.
WADA’s 2016 Testing Figures Report marks the second set of global testing data since the revised World Anti-Doping Code came into effect at the start of 2015.
The figures, which summarize the results of all 2016 samples analyzed by WADA-accredited laboratories, also showed there was a relative increase in the number of blood samples collected, to 7.75 percent in 2016 from 6.98 percent in 2015.


BASEL, Switzerland (Reuters) - Germany’s Alexander Zverev will miss the inaugural ATP Next Gen Finals in Milan next month to concentrate on his debut in the ATP Tour Finals in London the following week.
Zverev’s stunning year, during which he briefly rose to number four in the rankings, means the 20-year-old has qualified for both season-enders, and something had to give.
“I have consulted with my team and in order to best prepare for London, we have made the decision that it is best not to play the week before in Milan,” Zverev told the ATP’s website.
“Therefore, sadly, I will be withdrawing from the Next Gen ATP Finals. However, I still plan on making an appearance at the beginning of the event to support the tournament and show my appreciation for my fans in Italy that were so supportive during my win in Rome earlier this year.”
Zverev’s withdrawal is a blow for the new event, although the back-to-back schedule would have made it extremely tough for the German to have competed at both.
He has won five titles this year and is the youngest player to qualify for the ATP World Tour Finals for 10 years.
The Next Gen Finals were launched this year to showcase the top players aged 21 and under.
It will feature shortened sets, shot clocks and no advantage scoring as the ATP tries out new innovations to appeal to a younger generation of tennis fans.
The line-up will be Russians Andrey Rublev, Karen Khachanov and Daniil Medvedev, Canadian Denis Shapovalov, American Jared Donaldson, Croatian Borna Coric and South Korea’s Hyeon Chung plus the winner of an Italian under-21 event as a wildcard.
All seven players have featured this year in the top 50 of the ATP rankings this year.


(Reuters) - Nissan will become the first Japanese car manufacturer competing in Formula E with an entry in the 2018/19 season of the electric car racing series, replacing alliance partners Renault.
Renault, whose e.dams team have been Formula E champions for three years in a row, said in a statement on Wednesday that they would leave at the end of the 2017/18 season next July to focus on Formula One.
“After season four we will focus resources on our aggressive goals for Formula One and we look forward to continuing to gain benefits from motorsport racing across the Alliance with Nissan,” said Renault executive Thierry Koskas.
Former Formula One champions Renault have their own works team but are also due to supply McLaren and Red Bull with power units next year.
The French carmaker said it would work with Nissan to ensure a smooth transition.
“To have a name like Nissan coming on board is a momentous day for the series,” said Formula E chief executive Alejandro Agag in a separate statement.
“It’s great to see our first Japanese manufacturer entering the frame, showing truly how global the electric revolution is. Japan is a country at the forefront of new technologies with one of the biggest followings of Formula E.”
Manufacturers already involved in the electric series include BMW, Audi, Renault, Jaguar, Citroen and India’s Mahindra.
Mercedes and Porsche are due to arrive for season six, which is scheduled to start in 2019 and end in 2020.


(Reuters) - Nissan will become the first Japanese car manufacturer competing in Formula E with an entry in the 2018/19 season of the electric car racing series, replacing alliance partners Renault.
Renault, whose e.dams team have been Formula E champions for three years in a row, said in a statement on Wednesday that they would leave at the end of the 2017/18 season next July to focus on Formula One.
“After season four we will focus resources on our aggressive goals for Formula One and we look forward to continuing to gain benefits from motorsport racing across the Alliance with Nissan,” said Renault executive Thierry Koskas.
Former Formula One champions Renault have their own works team but are also due to supply McLaren and Red Bull with power units next year.
The French carmaker said it would work with Nissan to ensure a smooth transition.
“To have a name like Nissan coming on board is a momentous day for the series,” said Formula E chief executive Alejandro Agag in a separate statement.
“It’s great to see our first Japanese manufacturer entering the frame, showing truly how global the electric revolution is. Japan is a country at the forefront of new technologies with one of the biggest followings of Formula E.”
Manufacturers already involved in the electric series include BMW, Audi, Renault, Jaguar, Citroen and India’s Mahindra.
Mercedes and Porsche are due to arrive for season six, which is scheduled to start in 2019 and end in 2020.


(Reuters) - Japan’s Hideki Matsuyama has accepted the chance to play golf with U.S. President Donald Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe next month, the world number four said on Wednesday.
Trump will visit Japan from Nov. 5-7 for a five-nation Asia tour and the game with Matsuyama has been scheduled on the first day at the Kasumigaseki Country Club in Kawagoe near Tokyo.
Matsuyama said he felt undeserving when he was contacted but accepted the surprise request to tee off with the two world leaders as it was a “once-in-a-lifetime” opportunity.
“I wasn’t sure if I’d be good enough,” Matsuyama was quoted as saying by Kyodo news agency.
“I hope to have fun so that it will be engraved in my memory. I’ll do my best not to lose (against Trump),” added the 25-year-old, who is in Shanghai for the WGC-HSBC Champions tournament at the Sheshan International Golf Club.
Trump, an avid golfer and owner of several courses around the world, has previously played rounds with Tiger Woods, Rory McIlroy and women’s world No. 3 Lexi Thompson.
Earlier this year, McIlroy said that he would “think twice” before accepting a second invitation to play with Trump after receiving criticism.


(Reuters) - U.S. Open winner Sloane Stephens, compatriot CoCo Vandeweghe and double grand slam champion Angelique Kerber will headline the field at the WTA Elite Trophy, which will be played from Oct. 31 to Nov. 5 in Zhuhai.
Stephens won her maiden grand slam title in August and reached the semi-finals of the Rogers Cup and the Cincinnati Open while compatriot Vandeweghe won the Stanford Classic and reached the last four of the U.S. and Australian Opens.
The line-up also features St. Petersburg Trophy winner Kristina Mladenovic, Russian Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova, who has won three titles this year, and Indian Wells champion Elena Vesnina.
“This signature event showcases top players along with up and coming stars, all joining together and celebrating their successes of the 2017 WTA season,” WTA CEO and Chairman Steve Simon said.
The WTA Elite is a season-ending event that features both singles and doubles competitions. The 12 highest ranked women that did not qualify for the WTA Finals compete in the singles tournament for a total prize money of over $2.2 million.
Chinese number one Peng Shuai, who was beaten by Russian Maria Sharapova in the semi-finals of the Tianjin Open, was handed the singles wild card for the tournament.


SHANGHAI (Reuters) - The PGA Tour China series will return with a full schedule of tournaments in 2018 after this year’s scheduled was scrapped, tour officials announced at the HSBC Champions on Wednesday.
Uncertainty loomed over the series, which has produced Li Haotong and Dou Zecheng, after the initial three-year deal with China Golf Association (CGA) ran out in 2016.
“We are excited to partner with the CGA in this endeavor going forward and appreciate the CGA and its cooperation,” the PGA Tour’s Ty Votaw said in a statement.
The tour runs similar series in Latin America and Canada, rewarding top players with a passage to the PGA Tour through the Web.com Tour.
“We are very happy to again operate in 2018 and beyond,” Greg Gilligan, Managing Director of PGA Tour Greater China, said.
“We have enjoyed our long-standing partnership with the CGA and are especially thrilled that it will continue as both entities seek to grow the game in China.”
Beginning in the spring of 2018, each event will offer an increased prize purse of at least 1.5 million yuan ($225,855).
Top five money-winners at the end of the season will earn 2019 Web.com Tour membership and at least 15 additional players will have access to the latter stages of the Web.com Tour qualifying tournament.


MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Lewis Hamilton is a racing certainty to become Britain’s first four times Formula One world champion and any lingering smidgen of a doubt should be swept away at a coronation in Mexico City on Sunday.
The Mercedes driver, 1/500 odds on title favorite with British bookmakers who know a safe bet when they see one, has a 66 point advantage over Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel with three races remaining worth a grand total of 75.
Hamilton is also well clear in terms of the number of wins, the first decider in case of a points tie, with nine to Vettel’s four.
Put simply, Vettel has to score 17 points more than Hamilton at the Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez to keep his championship hopes on life support as far as the next race in Brazil.
Regardless of where the German ends up, Hamilton need only finish fifth to get the party started.
And if the Ferrari driver retires during the race, Hamilton will be world champion before he has even seen the chequered flag.
The high-altitude circuit could well favor Ferrari more than Mercedes, but Hamilton won from pole position last year and arrives this time with a haul of five victories from the last six races.
The pressure, what little there is remaining, is all on Vettel.
It will take the biggest comeback the sport has ever seen to deny Hamilton now, even if Mercedes continue to urge caution.
“I can imagine every scenario,” team boss Toto Wolff told reporters in Texas on Sunday night when asked if he could envisage Hamilton not winning.
”This is motor racing. Sebastian had a DNF (did not finish) in Singapore, scored little in Sepang (Malaysia) and DNF at Suzuka.
“So it is not done until you’ve mathematically achieved it,” added the Austrian, whose team have already wrapped up the constructors’ championship for the fourth year in a row.
Red Bull could also be in the mix on Sunday, with Max Verstappen also very much in the spotlight after criticizing stewards for imposing a time penalty in Austin that demoted him from third to fourth.
That argument is likely to rumble on for a while.
Mexican fans will meanwhile be firmly behind Force India’s Sergio Perez, still hoping for a dream appearance on his home podium, and will have an extra local to cheer on when Alfonso Celis Jr takes part in Friday free practice.
New Zealander Brendon Hartley will have a second chance to push his claims for a Toro Rosso drive after making a strong debut in the United States last weekend.
The 27-year-old has been kept on while Russian Daniil Kvyat is dropped to make way for the returning French rookie Pierre Gasly.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights from National Basketball Association games on Tuesday:
Cleveland 119, Bulls 112
LeBron James scored 34 points and piled up 13 assists while serving as the Cavaliers’ point guard in Cleveland’s 119-112 victory over the Chicago Bulls on Tuesday.
Kevin Love added 20 points and 12 rebounds for Cleveland, which snapped a five-game losing streak to Chicago. Jeff Green and Dwyane Wade came off the bench to score 16 and 11, respectively, for the Cavaliers.
Justin Holiday paced the Bulls with 25 points. Rookie Lauri Markkanen scored 17 of his 19 points in the first half and finished with five 3-pointers. Markkanen is the first rookie in league history to make 10 treys in his first three games.
James usually handles the ball for Cleveland and is its assists leader on the season, but he played the point because Derrick Rose (sprained left ankle) was out and coach Tyronn Lue sought a bigger lineup.
Magic 125, Nets 121
Aaron Gordon scored a career-high 41 points and hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 35 seconds remaining to lead Orlando over Brooklyn.
The Magic’s Evan Fournier scored 28 points, including 12 in the final 5:22. Gordon, who was 5 of 5 from beyond the 3-point arc, added 12 rebounds. D.J. Augustin, starting at point guard for Orlando in place of injured Elfrid Payton, scored 19 points.
D‘Angelo Russell led the Nets with 27 points. Rondae Hollis-Jefferson added 18 points, and DeMarre Carroll had 16. Caris LeVert scored 15 points and grabbed eight rebounds for Brooklyn.
Clippers 102, Jazz 84
Blake Griffin had 22 points, nine rebounds and six assists as Los Angeles improved to 3-0 with a victory over Utah.
Patrick Beverley added 19 points and Austin Rivers, making his first start of the season, added 16 points. DeAndre Jordan had 11 points and 18 rebounds, and Danilo Gallinari added 14 points for the Clippers.
Rookie Donovan Mitchell led the Jazz with 19 points, including 15 in the final quarter. Rudy Gobert scored 12 points, and Thabo Sefolosha had 11 points and 12 rebounds for Utah.
Trail Blazers 103, Pelicans 93
CJ McCollum scored 16 of his 23 points in the fourth quarter and Portland closed the game with a 9-0 run to win its home opener over New Orleans.
Evan Turner and Damian Lillard each scored 13 points, and Ed Davis added 12 points and 10 rebounds for the Trail Blazers. Portland has won an NBA-record 17 consecutive home openers dating to a 96-86 loss to the Los Angeles Lakers in 2000.
DeMarcus Cousins collected 39 points and 13 rebounds for the Pelicans. New Orleans’ Anthony Davis played only the first five minutes before departing with a left knee injury.
Celtics 110, Knicks 89
Jaylen Brown scored 23 points, rookie Jayson Tatum delivered 22 and Boston threw a defensive blanket over Kristaps Porzingis en route to a victory over winless New York.
Kyrie Irving had 20 points and seven assists, Al Horford added 13 points and 13 rebounds, and Daniel Theis scored 11 points for the Celtics. Brown and Tatum, both with early season highs, became the first Celtics pair younger than 21 to score 20 points in the same game.
Porzingis, who was attempting to become the first Knick to scored 30 points in each of the first three games, was 1-for-12 from the floor before hitting two fourth-quarter baskets. Porzingis left with 4:44 remaining, finishing with 12 points and five rebounds.
Pacers 130, Timberwolves 107
Victor Oladipo scored a team-high 28 points as Indiana routed Minnesota.
Cory Joseph scored 21 points -- thanks to shooting 5 of 6 from 3-point range -- and Bojan Bogdanovic added 19 points as five Pacers scored in double-figures. Indiana shot 66.7 percent from the floor.


LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - If the Astros are going to deliver Houston its first World Series title the team will need to figure out how to score runs on the road, something it has struggled to do all postseason long.
The Los Angeles Dodgers have home field advantage in the best-of-seven series so the road-weary Astros are going to need to win at least one game outside of the confines of Minute Maid Park to take the crown.
The Astros offense was not up to the task during their 3-1 Game One loss on Tuesday, mustering just three hits and barely putting pressure on the Dodgers pitchers.
Astros manager A.J. Hinch downplayed the team’s road struggles during a postgame press conference, instead pointing to the sensational performance by Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw, who struck out 11 and walked none over seven solid innings.
“Tonight is about Kershaw,” he said when asked about the Astros’ inability to score runs on the road.
“They had two big swings, we had one... It’s no more complicated than that.”
While a two-run blast by Dodgers third baseman Justin Turner did prove the difference on Tuesday, the offensive numbers for the Astros this postseason are not pretty.
While the team is a perfect 6-0 at home, they are just 1-4 on the road, where they have plated an average of just 2.6 runs.
They lost all three games they played at Yankees Stadium during the American League Championship series and needed a Game Seven win in Houston to advance to the Fall Classic.
To make matters worse, their pitchers have also struggled on the road, posting an ugly 7.24 ERA during away games compared to a 1.17 ERA at home.
The good news for the Astros is they will have ace Justin Verlander on the mound on Wednesday.
The hard throwing right-hander is 4-0 with a 1.46 ERA in the postseason this year.
“It’s a tough lead when you go up against Kershaw,” Hinch said. “But it’s going to be a tough lead when you go against Verlander.”


LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Los Angeles Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw shed post-season disappointments of the past as he dominated a dangerous Houston Astros lineup to help his side to a 3-1 victory in Game One of the World Series on Tuesday.
The 29-year-old, who has anchored the Dodgers rotation and battled through a back problem to post an 18-4 record with a 2.31 ERA this season, has perhaps unfairly become the face of the expensively-assembled team’s failure to advance to the World Series despite making the playoffs every year since 2013.
Until his World Series debut on Tuesday he had a 6-7 record in 17 previous post-season starts but finally replicated the form that has earned him three Cy Young Awards as he was virtually untouchable and allowed three hits and no walks.
”He was unbelievable,“ Dodgers third baseman Justin Turner told reporters. ”And he’s one of the most competitive people I’ve ever been around in my life.
“To see him out there doing what he did to one of the best offenses in baseball. It was incredible.”
Kershaw tossed 83 pitches in sweltering temperatures during a game that lasted just two hours and 28 minutes and the lefthander said he had felt no additional pressure.
”I don’t know if you can decipher between a post-season start and a World Series start,“ Kershaw said. ”The adrenaline, I feel like every game is so much more magnified.
“But it definitely feels good to say it was the World Series.”
His performance also earned praise from his manager.
“Tonight was one of those nights I think, for the first time in a while, where we’ve seen all three of (Kershaw‘s) pitches synched up,” Dodgers manager Dave Roberts said.
“This was a special night for Clayton.”


LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - The opening game of the World Series confirmed it was still Justin Turner’s world and the championship hopes of the Los Angeles Dodgers orbit around his uppercut swing.
Turner’s magical post-season reached new heights on Tuesday when he incited the Dodgers and their home crowd with a two-run home run in the sixth inning that helped package a 3-1 victory over the Houston Astros.
“Post-season is definitely a lot more fun,” Turner told reporters. “Just to be in the moment and look around and see almost 60,000 people in Dodger Stadium on their feet going crazy, it’s pretty special.”
When Turner snapped a 1-1 tie with a soaring blast that cleared the fence in left-center field it evoked memories of the Dodgers’ most famous home run 29 years ago.
Kirk Gibson sparked the Dodgers with a walk-off blast in Game One of the 1988 World Series, then memorably hobbled around the bases.
Turner’s shot was not nearly as dramatic, but should the Dodgers go on to claim the title it will surely live on in Dodgers lore.
A pitcher’s duel between Los Angeles ace Clayton Kershaw and Houston’s Dallas Keuchel was the early story of Game One and the game’s quick rhythm kept the crowd in check.
But the Los Angeles faithful finally let loose when Turner rose to the occasion in the sixth, and chants of ‘Just-in!’ filled the air.
“This place was the most electric I’ve ever seen it,” said Turner of Dodger Stadium. “It should be, (it‘s) the first World Series here in 29 years.”
The lasting ovation was more than a nod to his timely home run but a celebration of his 2017 playoff heroics as a whole. The red-hot third baseman has hit safely in all nine playoff games, as the Dodgers have posted an 8-1 record and tallied a franchise-record 13 RBIs in these playoffs.
But more than the numbers, Turner’s playoff run has been about moments.
There was the three-run, walk-off blast that gave the Dodgers a 2-0 best-of-seven command against the Chicago Cubs in the National League Championship Series; and the tone-setting, three-run homer in the first inning of the team’s playoff opener against the Arizona Diamondbacks.
Turner is carving out quite the post-season legacy.
“He just comes up with big hits,” said Dodgers manager Dave Roberts. “It’s hard to explain. He’s that guy that you want in the big spots, and he doesn’t scare off.”


SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Venus Williams produced a vintage display full of guts and determination to grind out a 7-5 6-7(3) 7-5 victory over Jelena Ostapenko at the WTA Finals on Tuesday to set up a White Group decider for a semi-finals berth against Garbine Muguruza.
Williams and Ostapenko had both lost their opening ties on Sunday so were desperate for a victory to keep their future fate in the eight-woman event in their own hands and neither appeared willing to budge in a titanic three hour and 13-minute slugfest.
In the end, the 37-year-old Williams emerged from a bruising encounter that featured 20 breaks of serve with a triumph built on her calmness at the key moments and ruthlessness when offered a chance to attack her opponent’s weak second serve.
“Sometimes you need some luck. I don’t know if I had any tonight as I had to work for every point,” Williams said in a courtside interview.
“It’s not easy when you lose the first match. Both of us were in the same situation and you have to fight, what else can you do, to live another day.”
If the first encounter of the day was a marathon, the second was a sprint as Czech third seed Karolina Pliskova swatted aside Spaniard Muguruza 6-2 6-2 in just 62 minutes to advance to the last four as pool winner with two victories from as many ties.
The opening match started with Ostapenko trying to force the pace with the high-risk strategy that carried her to French Open glory, while Williams was content to pick up free points as her opponent sprayed a plethora of attempted winners wide or long.
The Latvian edged ahead in the opener, however, and even served for the set at 5-3 but the veteran American dug deep and reeled off six consecutive games to steal the first set and then move ahead in the second.
The 20-year-old battled back as the pair traded two breaks apiece before Williams brought up a her first match point in the 10th game that she failed to convert when she dumped a forehand into the net as Ostapenko continued to go for her shots.
The pair’s inability to hold serve spilled over into the tiebreak and Williams handed Ostapenko three set points with a wild forehand and the Latvian leveled the contest on the first of them when the American netted a backhand.
Four more breaks of serve followed in the decider until Ostapenko rallied from 0-40 to hold in the ninth game and the Latvian saved three more break points in the 11th before finally running out of lives when she sent a backhand wide.
Williams could smell blood and a booming ace brought up three more match points and the American sealed victory on the second of them with a crosscourt backhand winner.
Pliskova was impressive in her straight sets win over Williams to open the tournament and she was equally imperious against Wimbledon champion Muguruza as she broke twice to race though the first set in just 26 minutes.
Muguruza has often struggled against the Czech, trailing 6-2 in head-to-head meetings ahead of their match, and despite offering some resistance when she saved three match points at 5-0 down in the second set, the Spaniard had little answer to Pliskova’s power.
“I don’t think either of us played that well today as we had to wait so long to get on court but I am happy that I am through,” Pliskova said. “I was expecting a tough one so it was good that it was actually easy today.”
Williams (1-1) and Muguruza (1-1) will meet on Thursday to decide who advances along with Pliskova (2-0), while Ostapenko’s (0-2) tournament debut is already over and she will have only pride to play for when she faces the Czech on the same day.


(Reuters) - The U.S. Women’s Open will be played at Pebble Beach for the first time in 2023, while the men’s tournament will return to the storied course in 2027, the U.S. Golf Association announced on Tuesday.
Pebble Beach had long been scheduled to host the 2019 U.S. Open, and the 2027 return will mark the seventh playing of the major championship on the California course adjacent to the Pacific Ocean on the Monterey Peninsula.
The news that the Women’s Open is also headed to Pebble Beach will no doubt be greeted with excitement by the game’s top female competitors, who get to play the most famous courses less frequently than their male counterparts.
“We are incredibly proud to bring the U.S. Women’s Open to Pebble Beach for the first time,” said USGA president Diana Murphy.
“The USGA is committed to bringing our championships to golf’s greatest venues and the opportunity to have the best players in the world, female and male, compete at this iconic course will provide a fantastic showcase of the game.”
USGA CEO Mike Davis noted the association’s long ties with Pebble Beach.
“The USGA’s relationship with Pebble Beach dates to the 1929 U.S. Amateur and it has proven itself time and again during the 11 previous championships,” Davis said, describing the course as a national golf treasure.
Pebble Beach has been the scene of some memorable performances during the U.S. Open, not least the record 15-stroke victory by Tiger Woods in 2000.
Other U.S. Open winners at the venue were Jack Nicklaus (1972), Tom Watson (1982), Tom Kite (1992) and Graeme McDowell (2010).
Lanny Wadkins also won a major there at the 1977 PGA Championship.
Brooks Koepka triumphed in this year’s U.S. Open, which was held at Erin Hills in Wisconsin. The Women’s Open was won by South Korean Park Sung-hyun in New Jersey.


ROME (Reuters) - Italy’s soccer authorities, reacting to an anti-Semitic outburst by Lazio fans, ordered stadiums on Tuesday to hold a minute’s silence at their next matches while a passage from the diary of Holocaust victim Anne Frank is read out.
Stickers of Anne Frank wearing the jersey of Lazio’s city rivals AS Roma were found on walls and bathrooms in a section of Rome’s Olympic Stadium used by Lazio supporters during their Serie A match against Cagliari on Sunday.
The incident was sharply criticized by Italian politicians and media, with President Sergio Mattarella calling it “inhuman and alarming for our country”.
At the next match in all Italy’s soccer divisions, a minute’s silence will be held “to condemn the recent episodes of anti-Semitism and to continue to remember the Holocaust,” the soccer federation said in a statement.
While the players line up in the center of the pitch a poignant passage from Anne Frank’s diary will be read out over the loudspeakers.
The passage reads: “I see the world being slowly transformed into a wilderness; I hear the approaching thunder that, one day, will destroy us too. I feel the suffering of millions. And yet, when I look up at the sky, I somehow feel that everything will change for the better, that this cruelty too shall end, that peace and tranquillity will return once more.”
On Monday, Lazio president Claudio Lotito and other team officials laid a wreath of flowers at Rome’s synagogue in an effort to made amends with the Jewish community.
Rome Jewish community leader Ruth Dureghello welcomed the gesture but said it was not enough. She said “collective awareness” was needed to bring an end to such anti-Semitic acts.
Episodes of racism are commonplace in Italian soccer and Lazio supporters, who have a reputation for right-wing extremism, have often run into trouble with the authorities.
The team’s hard-core fans, known as “ultras,” left the stickers and anti-Semitic slogans such as “Roma fans are Jews” in a section of the stadium where Roma supporters usually sit when their team is playing.
The two sides share the same stadium.
Anne Frank was born in Germany but her family fled to the Netherlands to escape the Nazi takeover. They lived in hidden rooms in Amsterdam before they were discovered by German occupiers and deported to concentration camps.
She died in the Bergen-Belsen camp aged 15 and her diary recounting the family’s time in hiding became a centerpiece of Holocaust literature.


(Reuters) - Minnesota Vikings safety Andrew Sendejo has been suspended for one game following a hit on Ravens’ wide receiver Mike Wallace during Sunday’s game.
The contact sent Wallace’s helmet flying and forced him from the game. Sendejo was penalised for unneccessary roughness.
The Vikings won the game 24-16.
“The violation was flagrant and warrants a suspension because it could have been avoided, was violently directed at the head and neck area and unreasonably placed both you and an opposing player at risk of serious injury,” NFL vice president of football operations Jon Runyan said in a statement.
Sendejo will be eligible to return to Minnesota’s active roster on Oct. 30 following the team’s game against the Cleveland Browns in London on Sunday.


(Reuters) - New Zealand-born centre Hadleigh Parkes is one of five uncapped players named in Wales coach Warren Gatland’s 36-man squad for the Autumn internationals against Australia, Georgia, New Zealand and South Africa.
The 30-year-old will only become available to represent Wales under the three-year residency rule in time for the final test against South Africa on Dec. 2.
“I‘m really excited about this squad as we kick off the two year countdown to the 2019 Rugby World Cup,” Gatland said in a statement on Tuesday.
“We see this series as an opportunity to expose some players to the test environment and continue to build our game as we look ahead to (the World Cup in) two years time.”
Gatland also recalled flyhalf Rhys Priestland who has made a strong start to the season with his English club Bath.
Several regulars were left out including experienced centre Jamie Roberts and lock Luke Charteris. Flanker Ross Moriarty and prop Gethin Jenkins are injured.
“The important message for those players who have missed out, the door isn’t closed,” Gatland added.
Forwards: Nicky Smith, Rob Evans, Wyn Jones, Tomas Francis, Samson Lee, Leon Brown, Kristian Dacey, Ken Owens, Elliot Dee, Jake Ball, Alun Wyn Jones, Seb Davies, Adam Beard, Cory Hill, Justin Tipuric, Sam Cross, Dan Lydiate, Taulupe Faletau, Aaron Shingler, Josh Navidi
Backs: Gareth Davies, Rhys Webb, Aled Davies, Dan Biggar, Rhys Patchell, Rhys Priestland, Owen Williams, Hadleigh Parkes, Owen Watkin, Jonathan Davies, Tyler Morgan, Alex Cuthbert, Steffan Evans, Hallam Amos, Liam Williams, Leigh Halfpenny.


(Reuters) - Former world number one Novak Djokovic and Switzerland’s Stan Wawrinka will return from lengthy injury breaks at the Mubadala World Tennis Championship (MWTC) exhibition event in Abu Dhabi in December.
After a poor run of form this year Djokovic retired from his Wimbledon quarter-final against Czech Tomas Berdych in July and the 30-year-old ended his season shortly afterwards due to a right elbow injury.
“The line-up is very strong as always and it will be the perfect way to make my comeback and begin the season. Abu Dhabi is an amazing place and this is going to be a great event for all of the fans,” Djokovic told the tournament website.
Three-times grand slam winner Wawrinka did not defend his U.S. Open title this year and announced the end of his season in August due to a knee injury.
“The fans are amazing there and the draw is as strong as always with a lot of great players. My recovery is going well and I can’t wait to be back on court,” Wawrinka said.
World number one Rafa Nadal, Austrian Dominic Thiem, Spain’s Pablo Carreno Busta and Canadian Milos Raonic will also compete in the tournament from Dec. 28-30.


LONDON (Reuters) - Former world snooker champion Stuart Bingham has been banned for six months for infringing betting rules over a 12-year period, the World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association (WPBSA) said in a statement on Tuesday.
The 41-year-old Englishman was found guilty of breaking rules on betting on matches involving himself and other players following an investigation by the WPBSA.
The ruling body said he bet in his own name, used proxy accounts and an account under his manager’s name, wagering 35,771 pounds ($47,000) between 2003-15.
Bingham’s ban is immediate with three months suspended for a year. The world number 10, who must also pay 20,000 pounds in costs, is free to compete again on Jan. 26.
Under the rules, players are barred from betting on any aspect of sanctioned tournaments. The WPBSA said there was no suggestion Bingham was involved “in any corrupt activity” or failed to perform to the best of his ability in matches.
“It is very disappointing to see such a high profile player fall foul of the WPBSA Betting Rules. Stuart is a great competitor and I have no doubt he has always played to the best of his ability,” WPBSA Chairman Jason Ferguson said.
Bingham, world champion in 2015, was not immediately available for comment.


(Reuters) - Next year’s Austrian Open will be the first tournament in professional golf to set a time limit on every shot in a bid to combat slow play, the European Tour has said.
The Shot Clock Masters at the Diamond Country Club next June will give the first player in a group 50 seconds to make any given shot and 40 seconds each for players that follow.
A one-shot penalty will be incurred for bad times, shown as a red card against the player’s name. Players can also opt for two time-outs in a round, giving them double the allotted time to play the shot.
“Not only will it help us combat slow play and reduce round times, it is also further evidence of our desire to embrace innovation,” European Tour chief executive Keith Pelley told the tour website (www.europeantour.com).
The European Tour trialled the concept on a single hole in the GolfSixes event at the Centurion Club in May and were happy with the feedback from players and fans.
Austria’s Bernd Wiesberger, currently 11th in the Race to Dubai rankings, welcomed the change.
“The new shot clock format is an ideal way to focus on the issue of pace of play,” he said.
“The game of golf should definitely be faster and therefore this is a step in the right direction.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Carson Wentz threw touchdown passes to four different players, catapulting the Philadelphia Eagles past the Washington Redskins 34-24 on Monday.
Wentz connected with wide receiver Mack Hollins for 64 yards, threw a 4-yard strike to tight end Zach Ertz and a 9-yard pass to undrafted free agent running back Corey Clement.
Wentz’s fourth score came on a 10-yard pass to wide receiver Nelson Agholor for a 31-17 lead with 11:10 remaining.
Wentz has already thrown 17 touchdown passes through seven games, one more than he had all of last season. He finished the night 17 of 25 for 268 yards with one interception.
The Eagles (6-1) won their fifth straight. The Redskins (3-3) dropped into a second-place tie in the NFC East with the Dallas Cowboys.
Washington got within 24-17 when quarterback Kirk Cousins threw a 5-yard touchdown pass to tight end Jordan Reed late in the third quarter. Philadelphia came right back and extended its lead to two touchdowns.
The news was not all good for the Eagles, however, as left tackle Jason Peters was carted off the field with a leg injury with 14:06 remaining in the third quarter.
Philadelphia was leading 17-10 when Peters got tangled up with defensive lineman Ziggy Hood. Peters’ leg appeared to bend awkwardly, and the veteran had an air cast placed on it before heading out on a cart. Peters, a nine-time Pro Bowl tackle, did not return.
Rookie kicker Jake Elliott’s 42-yard field goal with 6:19 left gave the Eagles a 34-17 lead. Cousins’ third touchdown pass, his second to Reed, this one for 12 yards, cut the deficit to 34-24 with 3:17 left.
Cousins completed 30 of 40 passes for 303 yards with one interception.
The Redskins drove 66 yards on eight plays on their first possession but settled for a 27-yard field goal from Nick Rose for an early 3-0 lead.
Following some sloppy play through the first quarter, the Eagles put together a solid drive and it resulted in a 50-yard field goal from Elliott with 13:15 remaining in the second to tie the game at 3.
It was Elliott’s 11th consecutive field goal and his fourth from 50 yards or longer this season.
Washington responded quickly and capped a seven-play, 81-yard drive with a 7-yard touchdown pass from Cousins to running back Chris Thompson for a 10-3 advantage with 9:14 left in the first half. Eagles linebacker Najee Goode got turned around, allowing Thompson to walk into the end zone untouched.
Wentz struggled mightily through most of the first half, going 3 of 8 for 30 yards and three sacks. But Wentz showed some toughness and lofted a beautiful 64-yard touchdown pass to rookie wide receiver Hollins to tie the game at 10 with 3:19 remaining.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights from National Basketball Association games on Monday:
Warriors 133, Mavericks 103
Stephen Curry escaped a suspension from the league on Monday night, then led the Golden State Warriors to a 133-103 victory over the Dallas Mavericks at American Airlines Center.
Curry had to wait until Monday afternoon to get a verdict from the NBA office whether he would be allowed to play. During Golden State’s 10-point loss at Memphis on Saturday, he lost his cool and chucked his mouthpiece in the direction of the referee.
Once he learned he would get only a fine, the two-time league MVP finished with a game-high 29 points. He made up for cold 3-point shooting (2 of 10) by going 13 of 13 from the free-throw line to help the Warriors improve to 2-2 on the season.
Kevin Durant finished with 25 points, eight rebounds and six assists, and Klay Thompson added 21 points for Golden State. Draymond Green had 10 points, eight assists and seven rebounds.
Grizzlies 98, Rockets 90
Mike Conley keyed a 13-0 run in the fourth quarter to help Memphis rally for a victory over Houston.
With the Rockets leading 88-78 just past the midpoint of the fourth quarter, Conley sandwiched two 3-pointers around a three-point play from James Ennis III on which Conley provided the assists. The second Conley trey matched the Grizzlies’ biggest lead at 94-90. Memphis closed the game on a 20-2 run.
Marc Gasol paced the Grizzles (3-0) with 26 points. Conley added 17 points and four assists. Ennis chipped in a double-double with 14 points and 11 boards. Eric Gordon led Houston with 27 points and added seven assists. Backcourt partner James Harden posted 22 points and eight assists but also registered a game-high seven turnovers.
Spurs 101, Raptors 97
LaMarcus Aldridge scored 20 points and Dejounte Murray added 16 points and 15 rebounds as San Antonio outlasted Toronto to remain unbeaten.
The score was tied at 85 with 5:55 to play before the Spurs used a Danny Green 3-pointer, two Kyle Anderson baskets and a Green turnaround hook shot to forge a 9-0 run that staked them to a 94-85 lead with 3:08 left.
Green had 17 points for San Antonio, which played again without injured forward Kawhi Leonard and point guard Tony Parker. DeMar DeRozan led the Raptors and all scorers with 28 points. Serge Ibaka and C.J. Miles added 13 points each. Jakob Poeltl had 10 points and 12 rebounds for Toronto.
Heat 104, Hawks 93
Josh Richardson scored eight of his 21 points in the fourth quarter, and Wayne Ellington scored 19 of his 20 in the second quarter to lead Miami past Atlanta.
Richardson, in his third year in the NBA, put up just his fourth career game of 20 or more points. He was pivotal to the Heat’s effort in the fourth quarter, scoring on a layup, a mid-range jumper and four free throws.
Ellington made 6 of 7 3-point tries in the second quarter, tying Brian Shaw for a franchise record. In 1992-93, Shaw made six 3-pointers in a quarter and 10 for the game. Atlanta was led by Kent Bazemore (20 points), Taurean Prince (20 points) and John Collins (14 points, 11 rebounds).
76ers 97, Pistons 86
Ben Simmons posted a triple-double in his fourth career game, and Philadelphia collected its first win of the season by downing Detroit.
Simmons, the top pick in the 2016 draft, piled up 21 points, 12 rebounds and 10 assists. He missed all of last season after undergoing foot surgery but has double-doubles in each of his first four games. Joel Embiid powered for 30 points and nine rebounds, and Robert Covington added 13 points for Philadelphia.
Reggie Jackson led Detroit with 16 points and seven assists, and he added six rebounds. Avery Bradley supplied 15 points for the Pistons, and Andre Drummond contributed 14 points with 14 rebounds.
Bucks 103, Hornets 94
Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 32 points and Chris Middleton added 20 to lead Milwaukee to a victory over Charlotte.
Antetokounmpo surpassed 30 points for the fourth time in four games this season. With 147 combined points in those games, he passed Hall of Famer Kareem Abdul-Jabbar -- who scored 146 to open the 1972-73 season -- for the most points through four games in franchise history.
Mirza Teletovic hit five 3-pointers to finish with 15 points as Milwaukee went 9 of 26 from long distance and shot 47.1 percent overall. Frank Kaminsky hit three of his four 3-point shots and led Charlotte with 18 points off the bench. Jeremy Lamb added 17 points, and Kemba Walker and former Bucks player Johnny O‘Bryant finished with 15 and 14, respectively.
Wizards 109, Nuggets 104
Bradley Beal scored 20 points, John Wall had 19 points and 12 assists, and Washington beat Denver.
Otto Porter Jr. added 17 points and 10 rebounds for the unbeaten Wizards, who began their four-game Western Conference road trip with a solid performance. All five Washington starters scored in double figures.
Nikola Jokic broke out with 29 points and nine rebounds, and Paul Millsap had 17 points and eight rebounds for the Nuggets, who struggled with ball control. Denver committed 24 turnovers -- eight by Jokic -- and lost despite outshooting Washington 48.8 percent to 44 percent.
Suns 117, Kings 115
Marquese Chriss scored 19 points, and Mike James put Phoenix ahead to stay on a basket with 14.1 seconds left as the Suns overcame two tumultuous days to hang on for their first win.
The Suns led by as many as 22 points and were up by 11 with 3:08 to play in the game. However, five 3-pointers in the fourth quarter by Sacramento’s Garrett Temple keyed a 14-3 run, and Kings rookie De‘Aaron Fox tied the game at 112 on an 8-foot floater with 58 seconds left.


AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Mercedes won the Formula One constructors’ title for the fourth year in a row on Sunday but Lewis Hamilton was made to wait despite cruising to a U.S. Grand Prix victory at one of his favorite circuits.
Hamilton, presented with the winner’s trophy by former U.S. president Bill Clinton, now looks sure to finish off the job and become Britain’s first four times world champion in Mexico next weekend.
The Mercedes driver’s fifth victory in six years at Austin’s Circuit of the Americas extended his lead over Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel, who finished second, to 66 points.
There are a maximum of 75 points still to be won from the three races remaining.
“I love this track, I think this track is now my favorite to be honest,” said Hamilton, interviewed by Usain Bolt on the podium and joining the Olympic sprint champion’s signature victory pose.
“A big congratulations to the team. They work so hard back at the factory and here.”
The victory was the 62nd of Hamilton’s career and his ninth of the season.
Ferrari’s Kimi Raikkonen took third, despite finishing fourth at the flag, after Red Bull’s Max Verstappen -- who had passed the Finn with a great overtaking move -- was hit with a five second post-race penalty that dropped him to fourth.
“It is an appalling decision. They have robbed all of the fans here,” raged Red Bull principal Christian Horner as Verstappen left the pre-podium room.
“It was a great grand prix and they have screwed it up.”
Hamilton had started on pole position, waved away for the formation lap by Bolt after an extended pre-race presentation reflecting the sport’s new U.S. ownership and desire to jazz things up.
Celebrity boxing title fight announcer Michael Buffer gave his long and resonant call of ‘Let’s get ready to rumble’, after announcing the drivers to the crowd one by one, and the battle was on.
But it was Vettel who struck the first blow from second place on the grid, beating Hamilton into the first corner as the Briton moved across and squeezed him as tight as he could without making contact.
Six laps later and Hamilton was back in front and this time he stayed there.
“At the start it was looking good, we got past Lewis, but we had to realize we couldn’t go at his pace,” said Vettel.
“We were then in no-man’s land and were not quite sure. We decided to pit again, with a fresh set of tyres, and it was a bit more exciting but overall it was not the result we needed.”
The German dropped down to fourth after his second stop but passed Mercedes’ Valtteri Bottas with five laps to go and team mate Raikkonen obligingly let him pass.
Bottas finished fifth with French driver Esteban Ocon sixth for Force India and Carlos Sainz, on his Renault debut after leaving Toro Rosso, seventh.
Mexican Sergio Perez was eighth for Force India with Brazilian Felipe Massa ninth in a Williams and Russian Daniil Kvyat taking a point for Toro Rosso.


AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Triple world champion Lewis Hamilton would like to see Formula One throw more American showmanship into the mix after the sport’s new owners jazzed up Sunday’s U.S. Grand Prix presentations.
The extended pre-race show saw drivers stepping out one by one through a tunnel while boxing announcer Michael Buffer presented them to the crowd with plenty of fanfare.
Dallas Cowboys cheerleaders performed in front of the grandstand, Hollywood actors appeared on the starting grid and Jamaica’s Olympic sprint champion Usain Bolt waved the cars off for the formation lap.
Afterwards, former U.S. president Bill Clinton presented the winner’s trophy while Bolt conducted podium interviews.
“I think it’s great. The Americans are way better than us Europeans in putting shows on. You look at the Super Bowl, the NFL games, the NBA games. They are way more fun than other sporting events in Europe,” Hamilton told reporters.
“They are more showy and its more of an atmosphere and I like that its starting to spill over into this. I think that’s the best start of a grand prix that I’ve seen,” added the Briton, who won for Mercedes.
“If we can bring that more into Formula One culture I think it’s just going to be more exciting...the sex appeal was there. That’s what motor racing has been missing for a long time, I think.”
Hamilton, who entered Formula One in 2007 and can win his fourth title in Mexico this weekend, said the sport had put up with “the same old boring thing” for years.
Traditionally, drivers have parked their cars, leaving mechanics to prepare them while VIP guests circulate and the national anthem is played.
U.S.-based Liberty Media, who took over the sport in January, have said they want every race to be like a Super Bowl in terms of atmosphere and build-up.
“It’s America, isn’t it? We’re under new ownership, we have to be prepared to try new things,” commented Red Bull team boss Christian Horner.
”If that engages the American public then why not? It didn’t detract from the race and seemed to get the crowd excited prior to the race.
“I don’t think it would be everybody’s cup of tea, I can’t see that working at Silverstone for example but it was an interesting introduction for this grand prix.”
Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel felt German fans would want a more traditional approach.
“I think Americans appreciate that sort of atmosphere and entertainment a lot more. I think Germans are maybe a little slower on that front,” he said.


(Reuters) - Ben Simmons is only three games into his much-anticipated NBA debut season but the Australian point guard has been so good that he is already drawing comparisons to some of the game’s greatest players.
The 21-year-old rookie has been the lone bright spot in a slow start for a Philadelphia 76ers team that have opened the 2017-18 NBA season with three consecutive losses.
Simmons has already shown an ability to score, rebound and dish out balls so effortlessly that he has been compared to the likes of three-times NBA champion LeBron James and Hall of Famer Michael Jordan.
But Simmons, who is only the second player in NBA history to record more than 10 points, 10 rebounds and five assists in his first three games on basketball’s biggest stage, is not letting the outside noise get in the way of his goals.
“Honestly for me, I just play. I have a lot to prove just to myself where I can go. But I‘m not worried about people trying to boost my head or anything like that,” Simmons told a conference call.
“I try not to let people get in my head, say certain things or believe the hype. There’s a lot of work to be put in. It’s going to take time, but I believe in myself and my team mates.”
The Melbourne-born standout was selected by Philadelphia with the first pick in the 2016 NBA Draft but his debut was abruptly put on hold when he rolled his right ankle during training camp. He was later ruled out for the entire season when tests showed his broken right foot had not fully healed.
When asked how tough it was to sit out a full season, Simmons said he was initially frustrated but then decided to use his time preparing in other ways.
“I had my moments where it was just hard for me walking in every day and knowing I wasn’t going to step on the court,” said Simmons. “But for me, I just tried to take advantage of not actually playing and just trying to learn as much as I could by watching the games, watching film and then obviously taking care of my body.”
Simmons and the 76ers will play the Boston Celtics at The O2 in London on Jan. 11 for the NBA London Game 2018 but he longs for the day when he can play an NBA game in his home country.
“I definitely want the NBA to go out to Australia, and definitely the team I‘m on, Philadelphia, I want them to go out there and play,” said Simmons. “That would be amazing if we could do that. I think it will come. It’s going to be a great time when it happens.”
Until then, Simmons will continue working on living up to the hype that has been placed on his shoulders, focused solely on taking his game to another level.
“I just want to go up against the best and compete. That’s what I’ve been wanting my whole life, to play the best players and be one of the best players,” said Simmons.
“Now that I have that opportunity, I think as long as I put in the work, the sky’s the limit.”


ROME (Reuters) - Italian police and soccer authorities on Monday opened investigations after Lazio fans posted anti-Semitic stickers of Holocaust victim Anne Frank wearing the jersey of their top-flight city rivals AS Roma.
The stickers and anti-Semitic slurs were found on glass barriers, walls and bathrooms in a section of Rome’s Olympic Stadium that was used by Lazio supporters on Sunday in their Serie A match against Cagliari.
“This is not soccer, this is not sport. Anti-Semites out of the stadiums,” Ruth Dureghello, the head of Rome’s Jewish community, said in a Tweet in which she posted a picture of the stickers.
The hard-core and often violent Lazio fans, known as “ultras,” left the stickers and anti-Semitic slogans such as “Roma fans are Jews” in a section of the stadium where Roma supporters usually sit when their team is playing.
Local rivals Lazio and Roma share the stadium.
Nicola Zingaretti, president of the Lazio region, of which Rome is the capital, was leading a group of historians at the Nazi death camp of Treblinka in Poland when he heard of the incident. He said it had provoked “added indignation”.
Anne Frank was born in Germany but her family fled to the Netherlands to escape the Nazis. They lived in hidden rooms in Amsterdam before they were discovered by German occupiers and deported to concentration camps.
She died in the Bergen-Belsen camp aged 15 and her diary recounting the family’s time in hiding became a centerpiece of Holocaust literature.
Nicola Fratoianni, the head of the small Italian Left party, said those guilty of the anti-Semitism at the stadium should be made to memorize Anne Frank’s diary.


(The Sports Xchange) - Ezekiel Elliott will be allowed to play at least another week after a federal judge on Monday rejected the NFL’s request for an expedited hearing on the Dallas Cowboys running back’s six-game suspension for alleged domestic assault against his ex-girlfriend.
Judge Katherine Polk Failla of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York ruled Elliott’s hearing will be held, as originally scheduled, on Oct. 30.
The latest ruling keeps Elliott eligible to play this Sunday against the Washington Redskins at FedEx Field under the temporary restraining order granted last Tuesday by another U.S. District judge in New York blocking the suspension.
The 22-year-old Elliott took advantage of last week’s legal reprieve, gaining 219 yards from scrimmage and scoring three touchdowns -- 147 rushing yards and two scores in addition to a 72-yard TD pass -- to lead the Cowboys to a 40-10 victory over San Francisco 49ers at Levi’s Stadium on Sunday.
“I put that aside when I get with these guys,” Elliott told reporters after the game. “These guys do a good job of giving me something else to think about, keeping me up no matter what’s going on out there. I‘m just happy to be out here and be able to play with them and go and get another win.”
NFL commissioner Roger Goodell suspended Elliott for six games on Aug. 11 after the league’s 13-month league investigation concluded he was in violation of the league’s personal-conduct policy for the incident in the summer of 2016. Elliott, who was not arrested or charged in the case, maintains his innocence after being accused of assaulting his former girlfriend in Columbus, Ohio.


AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Lewis Hamilton pulverized the track record to claim pole position on Saturday ahead of a U.S. Grand Prix that could secure the Mercedes driver’s fourth Formula One world championship.
Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel, the Briton’s closest rival but 59 points behind with four races remaining, qualified second with a prodigious effort just when it seemed Mercedes would sweep the front row.
Hamilton, chasing his fifth win in six years at the Circuit of the Americas, dominated every phase of qualifying and will be champion on Sunday if he scores 16 points more than the German.
“I love this track, it is such a fantastic track to drive,” he said. “It’s going to be a great race, a tough one, but I‘m the best prepared I can be.”
Vettel is the only other driver to have won at the Texas track and will do everything he can to deny the Briton a 62nd victory but will also be haunted by two retirements in the last three races.
Hamilton’s pole, in a time of one minute 33.108 seconds on a gusty afternoon, was the 72nd of his career and 11th of the season.
It also allowed him to claim another of Michael Schumacher’s all-time Formula One records with an unprecedented 117th front row start.
While Mercedes look sure to clinch the constructors’ championship for the fourth year in a row on Sunday, with a 145-point advantage over Ferrari, Hamilton played down his own chances of wrapping things up in America.
“I think it’s highly unlikely that’s going to be the case,” the 32-year-old told the cheering crowd from the pit straight after parking up.
”Sebastian did a great job today to bring the Ferrari back up there. I think ultimately all I can do is do the best I can of my abilities and we are going to work as hard as I can to get maximum points.
“Sebastian is right there so unless he makes a silly mistake, which is unlikely as he’s a four-times world champion, then we are going to be seeing it (the battle) continue on to other races.”
Vettel’s time of 1:33.347 put him ahead of Hamilton’s team mate Valtteri Bottas, who qualified third and shares the second row with Red Bull’s Australian Daniel Ricciardo.
“My lap was very poor in Q3 (the third phase) and I knew I had to deliver,” said the German, whose mechanics changed the car’s chassis after he complained about the handling in a fraught Friday practice.
“I got it right when it mattered at the end. It’s important to get the front row because I believe our race pace is really good.”
Ferrari’s Kimi Raikkonen qualified fifth with Max Verstappen sixth for Red Bull, but the Dutch 20-year-old has a 15-place grid penalty meaning French driver Esteban Ocon moves up to the third row for Force India.
Spain’s Carlos Sainz, preparing for his first race for Renault after switching from Toro Rosso, will start seventh alongside compatriot Fernando Alonso in the McLaren.
New Zealander Brendon Hartley, making his Formula One debut at Toro Rosso, will be last on the grid after qualifying 18th but with a 25-place penalty for an engine change decided on before he arrived in the team.
Haas’s Kevin Magnussen was handed a three-place penalty for impeding Force India’s Sergio Perez.


AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Lewis Hamilton rocketed to pole position at what could be a title-deciding U.S. Grand Prix on Saturday before enthusing about space travel and the possibility of one day going into orbit.
“I would go immediately. I would go tomorrow,” the Briton, who is on the brink of securing his fourth Formula One world championship, told reporters when asked about a space trip.
”No, I really, really would love to go.
“I know someone that has gone up. It was quite expensive so I don’t know how that’s going to happen. If I win the lottery then definitely, I’m going to go,” added the man whose private worth is estimated to be in the many tens of millions.
Joking aside, the self-confessed ‘space geek’ who visited NASA’s Houston training facility earlier in the week has been operating on another plane for some time already on the racetrack.
Since the August break, he has won four of five races while Sunday’s pole was his 11th out of 17 in 2017.
At the same time, Ferrari’s challenge has imploded and    Sebastian Vettel, his closest rival, is now 59 points behind with 100 left to play for. After Sunday, there will be only 75.
Hamilton smashed the Circuit of the Americas track record on his way to an unprecedented 72nd career pole and 117th front row start, and the Mercedes driver dominated every phase of qualifying.
His pole position time last year was one minute 34.999 seconds, a track record at the time. This year, he came close to breaking the 1.32 barrier with a time of 1:33.108.
“It’s just unbelievable to watch,” said 1996 world champion and compatriot Damon Hill.
Sunday’s race will be the sixth in Austin and Hamilton has won four of the previous five.
Speaking to reporters on Thursday, Hamilton had made clear just how much it mattered to him to stand on top of the podium again in a country that has become his second home.
If he does, he can secure the title should Vettel finish outside the top five -- a definite possibility given the German’s two retirements in the last three races but one Hamilton felt was unlikely.
“It’s a bit like a game of chess,” said the championship leader.
“Obviously right now it’s check, but there’s still a long, long way to go. There’s still 100 points available. Sebastian and his team are going to be working as hard as they can, as are we. Who knows?”


(Reuters) - The Los Angeles Dodgers and Houston Astros took turns this season carrying the title as “baseball’s best team” and so it seems only fitting they will clash this week in Major League Baseball’s World Series.
The Dodgers led the majors with 104 wins this season and are 7-1 so far this postseason while the Astros had 101 wins before going 7-4 in the playoffs to reach the Fall Classic, which begins Tuesday in Los Angeles.
Both teams boast solid young cores, impact players, potent offenses and deep starting rotations but the Dodgers possess a considerable edge in the bullpen, and that could prove to be the difference in the best-of-seven series.
“Quality ballclub,” Astros starting pitcher Dallas Keuchel, who will oppose fellow former Cy Young Award winner Clayton Kershaw in Game One, said of the Dodgers.
“They led the major leagues in wins for a reason. They won a lot of games in a row in the middle part of the season. They’re not to be taken lightly, but we’re not to be either.”
Both franchises have endured lengthy droughts in terms of reaching the World Series, creating a much-welcome fresh feel for the best-of-seven clash.
Houston, who have not reached the World Series since 2005, are seeking their first championship in franchise history while Los Angeles have not been this far since winning their sixth title in 1988.
The Astros were the talk of MLB after posting a 42-16 record through June 5. But as they started to lose steam it was the Dodgers who rolled off the best 50-game stretch that baseball has had in more than a century by going 43-7.
Those impressive stretches helped set up a World Series that will feature two 100-plus win teams from the regular season for the first time since 1970.
When the championship series opens on Tuesday at Dodger Stadium it may be the hottest World Series game of all-time with temperatures expected to reach 100 degrees Fahrenheit (37°C).
The Dodgers are favorites to triumph over the Astros, who were in the National League until 2013.
The teams have a long history after playing in the NL West division for several decades, including during the 1970s when the Dodgers were a dominant team that drove the Astros, and the rest of the league for that matter, mad.
The Astros’ offensive engine is powered by Jose Altuve, who was pivotal in his team’s American League Championship Series win over the New York Yankees in seven games to reach the World Series.
The diminutive second baseman always seemed to be right in the middle of things whenever something turned out well for the Astros, whether it was a sterling defensive play or key hit that sparked a game-changing inning.
With Keuchel and Game Two starter Justin Verlander heading the Astros’ rotation, Houston may find themselves in control when the series shifts to Houston on Friday.
A World Series title would cap a remarkable turnaround for the Astros franchise since they are only four years removed from their third straight 100-loss season in 2013.
Japanese right-hander Yu Darvish, who joined the Dodgers on July 31, bolsters what was already a solid rotation while the bullpen has been lights-out in the playoffs after being the National League’s best unit in the regular season.
The team are also getting plenty of run support from high-powered by Cuban outfielder Yasiel Puig and Cody Bellinger, who is widely considered a lock to win NL Rookie of the Year honors after his 39 homers set a league rookie record.
But despite entering the World Series as the favorite to hoist the Commissioner’s Trophy at some point over the next nine days, the Dodgers are not about to get complacent.
“They are a talented group, the best in the American League all year,” said Dodgers manager Dave Roberts.
“The starting pitching, with their one-two combo (Keuchel and Verlander). They’ve got very talented athletes, they can slug you and they can pitch. They are the class of the American League.”


(Reuters) - Factbox on the National League champion Los Angels Dodgers, who will play the Houston Astros, winner of the American League title, in Major League Baseball’s World Series.
Manager: Dave Roberts
World Series titles: 6 (1988, 1981, 1965, 1963, 1959, 1955)
2017 regular season record: 104-58
Most home runs in 2017: Cody Bellinger (39)
Most wins by a pitcher in 2017: Clayton Kershaw (18)
How they qualified: Clinched National League West division; Beat Arizona Diamondbacks 3-0 in best-of-five division series; Beat defending champion Chicago Cubs 4-1 in best-of-seven National League Championship Series.
* Established in 1883 in Brooklyn, New York, the team moved to Los Angeles before the 1958 season and is now one of Major League Baseball’s oldest teams boasting one of the richest histories of any franchise.
* While in Brooklyn, the Dodgers’ Jackie Robinson became the first African American player to compete in the major leagues when he debuted for the team in 1947.
* The club was part of the longest game by innings in Major League Baseball when they went 26 innings with the Boston Braves in 1920 before settling for a 1-1 tie as it became too dark to play.
* Hall of Fame left-hander Sandy Koufax is widely considered the greatest Dodger of all-time as he was the first pitcher to win multiple Cy Young Awards, pitched four no-hitters, including a perfect game, and led the Dodgers to two World Series titles.
* One of the most dramatic moments in World Series history came courtesy of the Dodgers in 1988 when Kirk Gibson, hobbled by injuries to both legs, limped off the bench and hit the game-winning homer in Game One before slow-trotting around the bases.
* After an injury prevented Jerry Reuss from starting the Dodgers’ 1981 season opener, the teamed turned to 20-year-old Mexican rookie Fernando Valenzuela, who pitched a shutout and began the season 8-0 en route to becoming the NL’s runaway rookie of the year and Cy Young Award winner.
* Starting pitcher Clayton Kershaw is a three-times Cy Young Award winner at the National League’s best pitcher and threw a no-hitter in the 2014 season.


SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Simona Halep made a winning start to her WTA Finals campaign with an impressive 6-4 6-2 victory over Frenchwoman Caroline Garcia on Monday, the Romanian surging clear in the second set to subdue her in-form opponent at the Singapore Indoor Stadium.
The second Red Group match of the day was a completely one-sided affair when Denmark’s Caroline Wozniacki blew away Elina Svitolina 6-2 6-0 in less than an hour to gain revenge for two finals defeats against the Ukrainian this season.
Garcia was the last woman to qualify for the elite eight-woman event when the 24-year-old won back-to-back titles in China but her tournament debut ended in defeat when world number one Halep halted her 11-match winning run in emphatic fashion.
There was little to choose between the aggressive baseliners in the first set but Halep stepped up a gear on the key points in the opener before hassling and harrying Garcia all over the court in the second to triumph in 88 minutes.
“I am really happy that I could win my first match as the number one in the world, it takes the pressure off,” Halep, who was beaten by Garcia in the China Open final this month, said in a courtside interview.
“I enjoy being in this position and hopefully I can play better in my second match than I did today.”
While Halep was making her fourth straight appearance in Singapore, Garcia belied any signs of big stage nerves with a solid hold in the first game, displaying plenty of aggression and volleying well.
Halep, meanwhile, was slightly sluggish in the early exchanges before a superb passing shot on the run in the fourth game appeared to act as a trigger for the energetic play that eventually wore down her opponent.
The pair traded breaks midway through the opener before Garcia’s serve completely fell apart as the set progressed and her second double fault of a calamitous ninth game gifted Halep a 5-4 lead.
Garcia refused to buckle completely, however, and Halep needed three set points to finally seal the opener with a booming backhand down the line that she greeted with a loud roar and two clenched fists.
Halep was finding the corners at will and more sloppy serving from the Frenchwoman handed her opponent the first break of the next set in the third game, which the Romanian consolidated brilliantly after battling back from 0-40 down.
Another break of serve soon followed and although Garcia finally held in the seventh game, Halep would not be denied and sealed the contest on her first match point when the Frenchwoman sent a routine volley at the net into the tramlines.
“It was a great match, I played my best tennis and it’s never easy against Caroline after she beat me in Beijing, but I did well and I love competing here in Singapore,” Halep added.
Svitolina was also making her debut in Singapore after a stellar campaign in which she won five titles, but the world number four was overwhelmed by Wozniacki, who won 10 games in a row to turn a close match into a rout.
Wozniacki had suffered heavy defeats by Svitolina in Dubai and Toronto this year, two of six finals she lost, but once her powerful serve had helped claim the opening set, the dispirited Ukrainian offered only token resistance in the second.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Sunday’s National Football League games:
Bears 17, Panthers 3
Rookie safety Eddie Jackson became the first player in NFL history to score two defensive touchdowns of at least 75 yards in the same game, and Chicago defeated visiting Carolina.
Jackson scored on a 75-yard fumble return and a 76-yard interception return during the first half. Bears quarterback Mitchell Trubisky played it safe on the other side of the ball as he completed four of seven passes for 107 yards.
Chicago (3-4) won its second game in a row and improved to 2-1 since naming Trubisky as the starter.
Panthers quarterback Cam Newton (21 of 34, 211 yards) was intercepted twice in the loss. Turnovers crippled Carolina (4-3).
Saints 26, Packers 17
Drew Brees continued his mastery of Green Bay in leading the New Orleans to victory at Lambeau Field.
Brees completed a barrage of short passes that added up to 331 yards on 27-of-38 accuracy. In seven career games against the Packers, he has topped 300 passing yards all seven times. The Saints (4-2) stayed afloat despite Brees’ two early interceptions to earn their fourth consecutive victory.
Making his first start for the injured Aaron Rodgers, Packers quarterback Brett Hundley was just 12 of 25 for 87 yards. His lone interception came with the Packers (4-3) down nine in the final minutes.
Cowboys 40, 49ers 10
Ezekiel Elliott ran for 147 yards and two touchdowns and caught a 72-yd touchdown pass, leading Dallas over winless San Francisco.
Quarterback Dak Prescott completed 16 of 25 passes for 234 yards and three touchdowns for the Cowboys (3-3), who ended a two-game losing streak and moved to within two games of the first-place Philadelphia Eagles (5-1) in the NFC East. Prescott also ran for a touchdown.
Steelers 29, Bengals 14
Le‘Veon Bell carried 35 times for 134 yards against the NFL’s second-ranked defense to Pittsburgh (5-2) to a win over the Cincinnati (2-4).
It was his third 100-yard game of the season and he went over the century mark late in the third quarter.
Seahawks 24, Giants 7
Quarterback Russell Wilson threw three second-half touchdown passes to give Seattle (4-2) the victory over New York (1-6).
The Seahawks put together a sloppy, penalty-filled first half, which included eight penalties 63 yards and two second-quarter dropped passes by tight end Jimmy Graham, one of which would have been a touchdown on a fourth-down play.
Chargers 21, Broncos 0
Los Angeles blanked Denver to win their third straight game.
Travis Benjamin had a 42-yard scoring reception and returned a punt 65 yards for a touchdown to lead the Chargers (3-4).  Philip Rivers added another touchdown pass to running back Austin Ekeler.
Denver (3-3) has dropped three of its past four games. .
Patriots 23, Falcons 7
Just as they occurred in the greatest comeback in Super Bowl history, New England manhandled Atlanta, cruising to a fog-shrouded victory.
The Falcons held a 28-3 lead over New England back in February before the Patriots scored the last 31 points to steal the game. On Sunday night, New England made it 54 straight points against Atlanta before Julio Jones caught a 1-yard touchdown pass from Matt Ryan with 4:09 left in the game.
Tom Brady threw two touchdowns passes, one a short flip forward that Brandin Cooks ran in 11 yards for a TD, and Stephen Gostkowski kicked three field goals for New England. James White, who scored the overtime touchdown in the Super Bowl, caught a 2-yard touchdown pass.
Vikings 24, Ravens 16
On a day that belonged to the kickers, Minnesota’s offense did just enough to spur the Vikings (5-2) to their third consecutive win.
Kai Forbath kicked six field goals for the Vikings while Baltimore (3-4) got a three from Justin Tucker. It was the fourth loss in five games for the Ravens.
The Vikings sacked Baltimore quarterback Joe Flacco five times.
Rams 33, Cardinals 0
Jared Goff threw for 235 yards and a touchdown, Todd Gurley II had his fourth game of 100 or more rushing yards and the defense provided two interceptions that led to points as Los Angeles crushed Arizona at Twickenham Stadium in London.
Cardinals quarterback Carson Palmer broke his left arm and will e out at least eight weeks.
Greg Zuerlein added four field goals for the Rams, improved to 5-2 with the victory in the NFC West matchup. They are in first place in the division. Arizona is 3-4.
Dolphins 31, Jets 28
Backup quarterback Matt Moore, a two-touchdown deficit, rallied Miami to victory.
Dolphins defensive back Bobby McCain intercepted a Josh McCown pass at the New York 27 with 47 seconds left in the fourth quarter. That set up Dolphins kicker Cody Parkey, who broke a 28-28 tie with a 37-yard field goal with 26 seconds left.
Moore was playing in place of Jay Cutler, who left the game due to a chest injury.
The Dolphins (4-2) avenged their loss to the Jets (3-4) four weeks ago. In so doing, the Dolphins won their third consecutive game.
Bills 30, Buccaneers 27
LeSean McCoy rushed for 91 yards and two touchdowns and Tyrod Taylor passed for 268 yards and a touchdown as Buffalo (4-2) came from behind to defeat Tampa Bay (2-4).
Stephen Hauschka made three field goals, including the game-winner from 30 yards with 14 seconds remaining. Earlier in the game, Hauschka tied an NFL record by making his 12th consecutive field goal of at least 50 yards
The Bills scored 10 points in the final three minutes.
Titans 12, Browns 9 (overtime)
Ryan Succop kicked a 47-yard field goal with 1:55 left in overtime to give Tennessee (4-3) the victory over winless Cleveland (0-7).
A 54-yard field goal by Browns rookie kicker Zane Gonzalez with 47 seconds left in regulation tied the score 9-9 to force overtime.
Jaguars 27, Colts 0
Blake Bortles completed 18 of 26 passes for 330 yards and a touchdown as Jacksonville (4-3) downed Indianapolis (2-5).
Indianapolis was shut out for the first time since a 41-0 playoff loss in 2002 at the New York Jets.
Bortles had a terrific first half, completing 14 of 20 passes for 282 yards and one touchdown. His first-half success included completions of 45, 50, 52, 24 and 28 yards.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Phoenix Suns didn’t waste any time making a coaching change.
Three games into the season, Earl Watson is out as coach and Jay Triano will replace him on an interim basis, the team announced Sunday night.
The Suns lost their first three games, the latest a 130-88 blowout on the road against the Los Angeles Clippers on Saturday night.
The Suns’ 48-point loss to the Portland Trail Blazers on Wednesday was the worst opening-night loss in NBA history.
Watson’s dismissal is the first firing of an NBA head coach since 2016.
It is the earliest a coach has been ousted during a season in league history. Mike Brown was fired by the Los Angeles Lakers five games into the 2012-13 season.
“I think that we have to become close as a team,” Watson lamented after the 42-point loss Saturday night. “We have to be real about it. We knew with a young team there was going to be adversity, but the part that’s most disappointing is the lack of unity.”
Watson lasted 118 games with the Suns and had a 33-85 record. Phoenix finished 24-58 last season. Watson was hired on an interim basis in 2016 after Jeff Hornacek was fired.
Triano was the associate head coach under Watson. He is expected to remain interim coach for the remainder of the season, ESPN reported.
In two-plus seasons as the head coach of the Toronto Raptors, Triano compiled an 87-142 record. He also has served as Canada’s national coach and for four years as an assistant for the Trail Blazers.
The Suns, who play the Sacramento Kings on Monday night in Phoenix, are undergoing a massive rebuilding project under general manager Ryan McDonough. The roster includes four rookies and four second-year players.


AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Team by team analysis of Sunday’s U.S. Grand Prix (listed in championship order):
MERCEDES (Lewis Hamilton 1, Valtteri Bottas 5)
Mercedes clinched the constructors’ title for the fourth year in a row, with their 75th win. Hamilton took his sixth U.S. Grand Prix victory, and fifth in Austin, to extend his championship lead over Ferrari’s Vettel to 66 points with three races remaining. He now has 62 career wins, nine of them this season. Bottas started third but could not make a one stop strategy work and had to pit twice.
FERRARI (Sebastian Vettel 2, Kimi Raikkonen 3)
Vettel started second, briefly led for the opening few laps but could not match the Mercedes’ pace despite setting the fastest lap of the race. Raikkonen was passed by Verstappen on the last lap but regained third after the stewards handed the Red Bull driver a five second post-race penalty for exceeding track limits and gaining an advantage.
RED BULL (Max Verstappen 4, Daniel Ricciardo retired)
Verstappen started 16th and had one of the drives of the day, passing Raikkonen with a brilliant move at the finish. He and the team were infuriated by the stewards’ decision against him. Ricciardo retired with an engine issue after 14 laps.
FORCE INDIA (Esteban Ocon 6, Sergio Perez 8)
Force India consolidated fourth place with another double points finish. Ocon has finished every race this season and scored in all but one. Perez said his tyres were right on the limit at the end.
WILLIAMS (Felipe Massa 9, Lance Stroll 11)
Massa moved up to 10th in the drivers’ championship. Stroll, who started 15th, switched to a two-stop strategy.
TORO ROSSO (Daniil Kvyat 10, Brendon Hartley 13)
Kvyat scored on his return after a two race layoff. Brendon Hartley became the first New Zealander to race in Formula One for 33 years. Both must wait to see who will be driving in Mexico, with French driver Pierre Gasly set to return.
RENAULT (Carlos Sainz 7, Nico Hulkenberg retired)
Hulkenberg retired early on with an oil pressure problem. Sainz made a strong debut for the team after switching from Toro Rosso to replace the dropped Jolyon Palmer. Renault overtake Haas in the standings.
HAAS (Romain Grosjean 14, Kevin Magnussen 16)
The only U.S.-owned team in the sport dropped a place to eighth. Grosjean started 12th and ran as high as ninth. Magnussen started 17th but suffered a left front puncture on the opening lap after a collision with Wehrlein. He also tangled with Ericsson and spun later on while being lapped.
MCLAREN (Stoffel Vandoorne 12, Fernando Alonso retired)
Alonso suffered more engine problems and retired on lap 24. Vandoorne started last after a late change of power unit that incurred a 25 place drop on top of an existing five place one.
SAUBER (Marcus Ericsson 15, Pascal Wehrlein retired)
Wehrlein retired on lap six after his car’s floor was damaged in the collision with Magnussen.


(Reuters) - Toronto FC broke a 19-year-old Major League Soccer record for points in a single season on Sunday while a stoppage-time winner gave the San Jose Earthquakes the final playoff berth on the last day of the regular season.
Toronto secured a 2-2 draw against Atlanta United to reach 69 points and eclipse the previous mark of 68 set by the Los Angeles Galaxy in 1998.
The remarkable season means Toronto will await the lowest-seeded Eastern Conference team that advances from this week’s single-elimination Knockout Round while second-seeded New York City FC will face the highest-seeded East team that advances.
In the East, third seed Chicago Fire, led by MLS Golden Boot winner Nemanja Nikolic, host the sixth-seeded New York Red Bulls on Wednesday while expansion side Atlanta United, the East’s fourth seed, will host No. 5 Columbus Crew SC on Thursday.
The Western Conference’s top-seeded Portland Timbers and No. 2 Seattle Sounders FC will also need to wait a few more days to find out their opponents.
Vancouver Whitecaps FC, the third seed, on Wednesday welcome the sixth-seeded Earthquakes, who punched their playoff ticket after Costa Rica international Marco Urena fired a shot that deflected off a Minnesota defender and into the net.
Fourth seeded Houston Dynamo host Sporting Kansas City on Thursday in the final match of the Knockout Round.
The MLS Cup will be played Dec. 9 at the home venue of the finalist with the best regular season record.


AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Lewis Hamilton can hear the fat lady clearing her throat, even if Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel managed to prevent her from singing after Sunday’s U.S. Grand Prix.
The Briton’s German rival had reminded reporters before the race that his tenuous title hopes were not over until the operatic diva had sung, as the popular saying goes.
If Vettel succeeded in keeping her quiet for another weekend, by finishing second while Hamilton won the race from pole position for Mercedes, it was merely to delay the inevitable.
Mercedes still clinched their fourth successive constructors’s title and next Sunday’s Mexican Grand Prix should wrap up the other one, no doubt with a full Mariachi band trumpeting away in the background, with two races to spare.
“We can see the fat lady back stage preparing,” quipped Mercedes team boss Toto Wolff after Hamilton went 66 points clear of Vettel with his fifth win in six visits to the Texas track.
Hamilton need now score only nine points, a fifth place will do, to become Britain’s first four times world champion even if Vettel wins.
If he had arrived in Austin with one hand metaphorically on the title trophy, the 32-year-old has tightened his grip considerably -- eight fingers and one thumb seemed to be the general consensus.
“Shoot. It’s getting close. That does sound good,” he recognized, while refusing to let his mind run away with the situation.
“There’s still three races to go. In my mind, I’ve still got three races to win. Still a lot of points available,” he said. “So I don’t think until it’s ever properly done and sealed you can ever get ahead of yourself.”
That said, he won in Mexico last year and has been imperious since the August break, winning five of the six races while Ferrari imploded.
Sunday, with family watching as former U.S. president Bill Clinton handed over the race winner’s trophy and Olympic sprint champion Usain Bolt conducted the podium interviews, was an afternoon for the album.
It had started with Hamilton giving the great Jamaican a taxi ride to remember around the track, continued with a showbiz entry to the grid and ended with the pair of them adapting Bolt’s trademark pose on the podium.
“You are always trying to drive to your potential and live to your potential,” said Hamilton as he reflected on it all. “And today was like the greatest day.”


(Reuters) - Grammy Award-winning pop singer Justin Timberlake will headline the Super Bowl halftime show in February, 14 years after a “wardrobe malfunction” overshadowed his last gig at the championship game, the NFL said on Sunday.
This will mark Timberlake’s third time on the halftime stage, giving the “Can’t Stop The Feeling” singer the distinction of having the most appearances by an individual entertainer, the National Football League said in a statement.
The 10-times Grammy winner last performed at the Super Bowl in 2004 when he infamously ripped off part of Janet Jackson’s garment during their halftime show in Houston and briefly bared her breast.
The incident coined the phrase “wardrobe malfunction”
The Super Bowl is the most-watched event on U.S. television, drawing more than 100 million viewers. Previous halftime headliners include Lady Gaga, Coldplay, Beyonce, Katy Perry, Bruno Mars and Madonna.


AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Mercedes joined a select group of teams to have won the Formula One constructors’ championship for four years in a row on Sunday and recognized it as their toughest title yet.
With an unassailable lead of 147 points with 129 remaining from the final three races, Mercedes joined Ferrari, McLaren and Red Bull who racked up similar streaks during their years of dominance.
Unlike their rivals, Mercedes have managed to stay on top despite major rule changes at the end of last year that introduced wider tyres and revised aerodynamics to make the cars faster and harder to handle.
And this season they have been fighting a resurgent and determined Ferrari rather than just waging an internal battle between team mates.
“This for us was the most difficult one because Ferrari was competitive and we still made it,” the team’s non-executive chairman Niki Lauda, himself a triple world champion, told reporters at the U.S. Grand Prix.
Mercedes have dominated since the start of the 1.6 liter V6 turbo hybrid era in 2014, and are set to win both titles again this year.
They have won 11 of 17 races so far this season and 62 of 76 since the start of 2014.
Britain’s Lewis Hamilton, who won at the Circuit of the Americas on Sunday for the fifth time in six years, has won nine times this year and is a fingertip away from his own fourth championship.
His title looks sure to come in Mexico next weekend, barring misfortune.
It would have been five had now-retired team mate Nico Rosberg not beaten him last year in a season where car reliability played a major part in the eventual outcome.
Mercedes have also qualified on pole position for 69 of the last 76 races and Hamilton, who holds the sport’s all-time career record of 72, has taken 11 of them this season alone.
“When we set our objectives at the beginning of the year it was to win both championships and be the first team to do that through a regulation change like this,” said team boss Toto Wolff.
“Having achieved that here in Austin with three races to go, it feels really unbelievable. It’s just the reward for so many people that have been hard working,” added the Austrian, his briefing interrupted by Ferrari boss Maurizio Arrivabene entering to congratulate him with a hug.
“You always try to identify silver bullets that make the difference but the fact is that we have a really great dynamic within the team and we enjoy doing what we do, pulling it all together. Bringing it home feels just super.”


WELLINGTON (Reuters) - New Zealand named four uncapped players on Monday in the squad for their end-of-season tour but lock Brodie Retallick will not be on the plane to Europe as he deals with a personal matter.
Hooker Asafo Aumua, prop Tim Perry, center Jack Goodhue and outside back Matt Duffie, a convert from rugby league, will all get the chance to press for an All Blacks debut after being named in Steve Hansen’s 37-man squad for the five-match tour.
“Adding the four new players to our squad will again allow us to expose more young talent to the highest level, where, history tells us, players grow and get better,” Hansen said.
“So this tour will complete a season of building depth and experience which, in the long run, will only benefit the team.”
The world champions will play tests against France (Nov. 11), Scotland (Nov. 18) and Wales (Nov. 25) as well as non-cap matches against the Barbarians (Nov. 4) and a French Selection in Lyon (Nov. 14).
Key players Kieran Read, Dane Coles, Wyatt Crockett, Samuel Whitelock, Anton Lienert-Brown and Sonny Bill Williams, who all played in the 23-18 loss to Australia last Saturday, will be rested for the Barbarians match and join the squad late.
Retallick, who has missed the last two tests, will remain at home leaving the squad with only four locks, but experienced loose forward Jerome Kaino, who has not played since the Lions series for his own personal reasons, returned to the squad.
Of the uncapped quartet, 20-year-old Aumua was expected to be included after being thrust into the limelight in June when he scored three tries in the final of the under-20 World Cup, which the “Baby Blacks” won.
Goodhue has been on the fringes of the squad after being drafted in as injury cover during the British and Irish Lions series, while the versatile Duffie gets his chance with Jordie Barrett, Israel Dagg and Nehe Milner-Skudder all out injured.
Regular fullback Ben Smith is also on sabbatical, while season-ending injuries to first choice props Joe Moody and Owen Franks have created the opportunity for loosehead Perry.
Hansen has retained Tawera Kerr-Barlow as his third-choice scrumhalf, despite the player’s decision to sign for French club La Rochelle, indicating he is not quite convinced of his options behind Aaron Smith and TJ Perenara.
Five additional players - loose forward Dillon Hunt, prop Atunaisa Moli, scrumhalf Mitchell Drummond, flyhalf Richie Mo‘unga and lock Dominic Bird - will play for the Barbarians and join the All Blacks squad for the two matches in France.
“We want to play attractive rugby that we can be proud of and, of course, winning is part of that,” said Hansen.
“But, just as importantly will be re-establishing the processes that allow us to do this.”
Squad:
Forwards: Kane Hames, Wyatt Crockett, Nepo Laulala, Ofa Tu‘ungafasi, Tim Perry, Jeffrey Toomaga-Allen, Dane Coles, Codie Taylor, Nathan Harris, Asafo Aumua, Sam Whitelock, Scott Barrett, Luke Romano, Patrick Tuipulotu, Liam Squire, Vaea Fifita, Jerome Kaino, Sam Cane, Ardie Savea, Matt Todd, Kieran Read (captain)
Backs: Aaron Smith, TJ Perenara, Tawera Kerr-Barlow, Beauden Barrett, Lima Sopoaga, Ryan Crotty, Sonny Bill Williams, Anton Lienert-Brown, Ngani Laumape, Jack Goodhue, Waisake Naholo, Rieko Ioane, Matt Duffie, Seta Tamanivalu, David Havili, Damian McKenzie.


AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Max Verstappen accused Formula One stewards of killing the sport, and suggested fans could stay away in protest, after he was stripped of a podium place at the U.S. Grand Prix on Sunday.
With Red Bull boss Christian Horner and past champions joining in the outcry, the 20-year-old Dutch driver vented his feelings.
”The engine penalty is what it is,“ said Verstappen, who started 16th after being demoted for power unit changes. ”We had a great race but with those stupid decisions you kill the sport.
“I hope the fans do not like this decision and next year they do not come.”
Verstappen had thrilled the crowd with a last lap overtaking move on Ferrari’s Kimi Raikkonen to take third place.
He was then demoted to fourth, while waiting with race winner Lewis Hamilton and second-placed Ferrari driver Sebastian Vettel in the pre-podium room, for exceeding the track limits to gain an advantage.
As he headed back down the stairs, team principal Horner let rip.
“It is an appalling decision. They have robbed all of the fans here. It was a great grand prix and they have screwed it up,” he said.
Verstappen’s father Jos was also scathing of the decision on social media, with a series of comments on Twitter suggesting  Ferrari favoritism.
“Shame on you FIA,” he said referring to the sport’s governing body. “Obviously F1 don’t know what racing is.”
Mario Andretti, the 1978 world champion, also chimed in: “After watching videos could equally argue Kimi forced him there. Best overtake of #USGP. Feel sorry for @Max33Verstappen  you got robbed,” he said.
Mercedes non-executive chairman Niki Lauda, himself a triple world champion, also agreed even as his team celebrated their fourth successive constructors’ championship.
“This decision is the worst I’ve ever seen,” he told reporters.
“He (Verstappen) did nothing wrong. These are racing drivers, we’re not on a normal road and it’s ridiculous to destroy the sport with this kind of decision,” added the Austrian.
“At the next strategy meeting we’ll bring it up the agenda and start all over again because we cannot do that, going too far and interfering. It was a normal overtaking.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Arizona Cardinals quarterback Carson Palmer suffered a broken left arm in Sunday’s loss to the Los Angeles Rams at Twickenham Stadium in London.
He will have surgery when the team returns to Arizona, coach Bruce Arians said after the game. Arians expects Palmer to miss at least eight weeks and might be lost for the season.
Palmer was injured on an interception in the second quarter after taking a hit from Rams linebacker Alec Ogletree just after releasing the ball. The pass was intercepted by Rams safety Lamarcus Joyner.
Palmer was 10 of 18 for 122 yards and the one interception when he left the game. The Rams led 23-0 at halftime and went on to post a 33-0 victory.
Drew Stanton, a 10-year NFL veteran, replaced Palmer.


SINGAPORE (Reuters) - After failing to navigate her way out of the group phase on her WTA Finals debut in 2016, Karolina Pliskova was desperate to get off to a fast start this year and that is exactly what the Czech world number three managed against Venus Williams on Sunday.
Opening round-robin play in the White Group at a packed Singapore Indoor Stadium, Pliskova used her booming serve and groundstrokes to subdue her American opponent 6-2 6-2 with an emphatic display of power.
“I was feeling so much better than last year, so I cannot compare those matches, not even a little bit,” the 25-year-old told reporters.
”I had a good week of practice here, so I felt like it can be okay. But I just wasn’t sure about how I‘m going to feel, if nervous or not, because still we are the first match on.
“But I felt pretty good. Actually, I felt really good. I think everything was fine with my game today. I was just a little bit better, even from the baseline, even on my service games, so there was no need to panic with anything in my game.”
After reaching two grand slam finals this past season, the 37-year-old Williams was making her first appearance since 2009 at the elite eight-woman event and Pliskova felt the previous experience of the Singapore court had helped her cause.
“I had quite an advantage from the fact that she was not playing for the last few years in WTA Finals, so I felt like a little bit more calm on the court than maybe she was,” the Czech added.
”I don’t know how she felt but I think I was trying to take that advantage that I was here last year, you know, that I had some matches and had some good practice this year.
“I felt pretty confident. Even though we had two tough matches against each other and was just 1-1 head-to-head, I always felt like I had a good chance to win.”
The American rued the fact that she made a slow start to the match, needing four games to get on the scoreboard, but was optimistic she would fare better in her final two round-robin matches against Garbine Muguruza and Jelena Ostapenko.
“I played better in the second set but she just seemed to have all the answers,” Williams said. “You know, some days that’s how it is. Hopefully I will have more luck in the next ones.”


(Reuters) - The Houston Astros reached Major League Baseball’s World Series for the first time since 2005 after beating the New York Yankees 4-0 in Game Seven of the American League Championship Series on Saturday.
The Astros, who rallied from a 3-2 deficit in the best-of-seven series, will face the Dodgers when the World Series begins on Tuesday in Los Angeles.
Astros starting pitcher Charlie Morton threw five shutout innings, allowing two hits and a walk while striking out five.
Reliever Lance McCullers Jr. came on in the sixth and recorded his first career save after pitching four scoreless innings while giving up just one hit and striking out six.
The Astros scored three runs in the bottom of the fifth with the key hit coming off the bat of catcher Brian McCann, who lined a two-out double into the right field corner to score two and push the lead to 4-0.
Designated hitter Evan Gattis and second baseman Jose Altuve each contributed solo home runs in the ballgame.
Astros owner and chairman Jim Crane thanked the team’s fans for sticking with the club even while it continues to recover from Hurricane Harvey, the deadly storm that ravaged the city in late August.
“Everybody has been pulling together and it is kind of a dream come true for this city to make it this far and have a chance to win the World Series,” he said.
The Yankees, who had won three straight in New York to force the Astros to play two elimination games, could not find their offense in Houston, scoring just one run in the final two games of the series at Minute Maid Park.
The Yankees came within inches of tying the game with the Astros leading 1-0 in the top of the fifth.
Yankees first baseman Greg Bird raced home from third on an infield grounder but Astros third baseman Alex Bregman picked it up and made a gutsy throw to McCann at the plate for the out, which sent the orange-clad Astros fans into a frenzy.
Yankees All-Star slugger Aaron Judge came to the plate in the top of the eighth with a runner on and a chance to cut the Astros lead in half with a homer, but McCullers struck him out to end the inning and preserve the 4-0 lead.
“There are things we need to get better on and that will be a focus but I‘m extremely proud of this group,” Yankees manager Joe Girardi said after the game.
The Astros last reached the World Series in 2005 when they were swept 4-0 by the Chicago White Sox.


SEOUL (Reuters) - American Justin Thomas birdied the second extra hole of a playoff against Marc Leishman to win the PGA Tour’s $9.25 million CJ Cup at the Nine Bridges Golf Club on Jeju island on Sunday.
Both players finished on nine-under-par 279 for the four rounds of the Tour’s first regular season event in South Korea, a shot better than Cameron Smith in third, with home hope Kim Whee in fourth spot, two strokes further back on six-under.
Thomas closed with an even par 72 while Leishman picked up two shots with a 70 in the final round.
After they carded matching pars at the first extra hole, the 18th, Australian Leishman leaked his second shot into the water right of the green as the pair came down the par five closing hole for a third time on Sunday.
Despite seeing his opponent’s ball splash down in the lake, Thomas opted against laying-up and kept faith with a wood, battering his second from 243 yards just short of the green.
The FedExCup champion’s eagle putt would come up short but his birdie was more than enough to beat Leishman, who finished with a bogey six.
“It was tough out there today, for these last three days it was extremely difficult condition with the wind but, I’ve stayed really patient this weekend and patient today,” the 24-year-old said.
”It felt really good to hit two really good shots there on 18 in regulation and I had to putt with a chance to win it.
“I hit two great 3-woods there at that second play-off. It’s a great way to cap off the year. I’m really excited to do nothing for a while,” he added.
Scott Brown (76), the overnight co-leader with Thomas, endured a final round to forget with back-to-back double bogeys at the fourth and fifth derailing his title hopes, while Anirban Lahiri (74) was leading after going two-under through 13 holes, but dropped four shots over the closing five holes.
Both players finished on five-under 283, tied for fifth place with Jamie Lovemark (71), Brian Harman (71), Luke List (72) and last week’s CIMB Classic champion Pat Perez (68).


(Reuters) - South Korean Ji Eun-hee lifted her first LPGA title in eight years with an emphatic six-stroke victory at the Swinging Skirts LPGA Taiwan Championship on Sunday.
Ji, who held a six-stroke overnight lead, cruised through a bogey-free final round of seven-under 65 at the par-72 Miramar Resort and Country Club.
The 31-year-old fired three birdies on the front-nine as she made the turn at 13-under, still six better than second-placed Lydia Ko of New Zealand.
Another birdie for Ji at the 10th hole opened a seven-shot lead over Ko, who got one back with a birdie of her own at the 11th but never threatened the South Korean’s title bid in the rest of the round.
Ji calmly tapped a three-foot par putt on the 18th to capture her third LPGA title and her first since her U.S. Women’s Open triumph in July 2009.
“I‘m so happy and excited because I haven’t won for the past eight years,” said Ji, who finished with a 17-under 271. “So I was waiting for this moment for so long, so I‘m super happy right now.”
“It is a nice day for playing golf today, and I have a really good group with Lydia and Jenny (Shin), so I was more relaxed with them and enjoyed playing with them.”
Ko took the runner-up spot with a spotless seven-under 65 to finish with 11-under 277.
Ji became the 11th different South Korean to lift an LPGA title this season, joining Jang Ha-na, Amy Yang, Park In-bee, Lee Mi-rim, Ryu So-yeon, Kim Sei-young, Kim In-kyung, Park Sung-hyun, Lee Mi-hyang and Ko Jin-young.


MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Marc Marquez moved to within touching distance of a fourth MotoGP world title with victory at the Australian Grand Prix on Sunday, his sixth win of the season giving him a 33-point lead over nearest rival Andrea Dovizioso with two races remaining.
The 24-year-old Honda rider prevailed after another Phillip Island thriller with the top eight riders duking it out over 27 laps and the lead changing hands on almost every corner at some stages.
Marquez, clipped by French rookie Johann Zarco early in the race, bided his time and hit the front six laps from the end before racing away to take the chequered flag and moving to 269 points in the championship.
Ducati’s Dovizioso, meanwhile, had started from 11th on the grid after a disappointing qualifying and his misery was complete when he was passed by Marquez’s team mate Dani Pedrosa and Scott Redding on the final lap to finish 13th.
That left the Italian on 236 points with only 50 up for grabs in the final two rounds of the championship in Malaysia and Valencia.
“Amazing, amazing, I knew before the race that today was an important day,” said Marquez.
”Dovy was struggling a little bit this weekend and I was feeling really good. In the race I was just waiting, waiting, waiting, waiting. And then when there were seven, eight laps remaining, I just gave it everything.
“The fight was amazing.”
MotoGP great Valentino Rossi emerged from the ding-dong battle in second place with his Yamaha team mate Maverick Vinales pipping Zarco on the line to round out the podium in third.
“I enjoy very much, this track is unbelievable and it was a great, great race,” said Rossi.
“All the riders at the front are very aggressive so you need to be more stupid than them. It was a great battle. I wanted a podium and in the end I‘m very happy with second place.”
Vinales saw his extremely slim hopes of a maiden MotoGP world title end as he slipped 50 points behind reigning champion Marquez with only three race wins to the Spaniard’s six this year.
Australian Jack Miller, returning to race action only three weeks after breaking his leg, led for the first three laps of the race but was unable to get on the podium and finished seventh.
The rain stayed away for the MotoGP showpiece but an earlier violent storm forced a premature end to the Moto3 race.
Joan Mir was leading when the red flags came out after 15 laps, a ninth win in 16 outings this season enough to secure a maiden world title for the 20-year-old Spaniard.
Miguel Oliveira won the Moto2 race - the first Portuguese to win in the intermediate class of grand prix motorcycling - with Italian Franco Morbidelli finishing third to increase his lead in the title race.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights from National Basketball Association games on Saturday:
Grizzlies 111, Warriors 101
The Golden State Warriors fell to the Memphis Grizzlies 111-101 on Saturday night in a game that saw Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant ejected.
Curry scored 37 points but sat out the first half of the fourth quarter with five fouls.
Durant didn’t like a no-call either, and as Curry and Durant made their way toward the tunnel Durant was seen apparently flipping off a fan.
Marc Gasol led Memphis with 34 points and 14 rebounds. The Grizzlies led almost the entire game and by as many as 19 points in the second half.
Magic 114, Cavaliers 93
Orlando ended a 17-game losing streak against Cleveland and LeBron James with a win.
Nicola Vucevic scored 23 points and the Orlando Magic stunned the Cavaliers, who trailed by as many as 37 points.
The skid was the longest in Magic history to one team, just as the winning streak was Cleveland’s best against an opponent. The Magic hadn’t beaten Cleveland since Nov. 23, 2012.
Vucevic, 26, played for the Magic in that game against Cleveland five years ago and scored 10 points in a 108-104 win.
Heat 112, Pacers 108
Goran Dragic scored 23 points to lead Miami to a win over Indiana.
James Johnson’s two free throws with 11 seconds left provided the final margin for the Heat, who withstood the Pacers’ fourth-quarter comeback.
Dion Waiters finished with 19 points and Kelly Olynyk scored 13 points for Miami, which played without injured center Hassan Whiteside. Victor Oladipo scored a game-high 28 points for the Pacers, who also played without center Myles Turner due to a concussion.
Pistons 111, Knicks 107
Detroit completed a comeback from a 21-point deficit as Tobias Harris scored 12 of his 31 points in the fourth quarter to lift Detroit past New York.
Porzingis led all scorers with 33 points, but most of his damage was done in the first half. The 7-foot-3 forward made his first seven shots, 8 of 10 shots by halftime before it changed with Tolliver.
Andre Drummond, who collected 21 points and 11 rebounds for his first double-double of the season, blocked Porzingis’ final shot. Reggie Jackson finished a 14-point night by scoring seven points in the final two minutes, including the tiebreaking 3-point play with 1:41 seconds.
Rockets 107, Mavericks 91
James Harden scored a season-high 29 points, Eric Gordon chipped in 18 and Houston defeated Dallas in its home opener at the Toyota Center.
This is the 11th time the Rockets have started a season 3-0. The last was in 2014-15, when Houston started 6-0.
With four players out -- including rookie guard Dennis Smith Jr. -- for their first meeting against divisional rival Houston, the Mavericks (0-3) were undermanned from the beginning. Yogi Ferrell also scored 19 points for Dallas.
Spurs 87, Bulls 77
LaMarcus Aldridge had 28 points and 10 rebounds, and San Antonio scored 23 points off of turnovers in a victory over Chicago.
The Spurs, who are playing without last season’s leading scorer Kawhi Leonard, led by as many as 17 points in the fourth quarter.
Robin Lopez scored 16 points for the Bulls, who are without a handful of key players because of injury or suspension while in the midst of a rebuilding effort. Justin Holiday scored 15 points for Chicago.
Raptos 128, 76ers 94
Ben Simmons has had a perfect start to his NBA career. The Australian has had double-doubles in each of his first three NBA games, but Philadelphia has lost all three, including last night to Toronto.
While Simmons scored 18 points, grabbed 10 rebounds and added eight assists, the Raptors got 30 points from DeMar DeRozan to start the season with two straight wins.
Nothing has changed in the new season for the Sixers, a young developing team. Simmons joined Oscar Robertson as the only NBA players to start their careers with at least 10 points and 10 rebounds and five or more assists in their first three games.
Clippers 130, Suns 88
Blake Griffin scored 29 points and DeAndre Jordan added 13 rebounds as Los Angeles remained undefeated with a victory over Phoenix.
Alex Len scored 15 points and Devin Booker added 13 as the Suns struggled on the second night of back-to-back games. Tyson Chandler grabbed 14 rebounds. Phoenix fell to the Lakers on Friday night in a high-scoring affair and is now 0-3 on the season.
Griffin shook off a slow start and was in sync by the third quarter. Clippers fans started an “MVP” chant while Griffin stepped to the free throw line in the second half of the home opener.
Nuggets 96, Kings 79
Paul Millsap had 18 points and nine rebounds in his first game in Denver and the Nuggets rebounded from a disappointing loss to the Jazz to beat Sacramento.
Kenneth Faried also scored 18 points and grabbed eight rebounds, and Gary Harris had 17 points for Denver.
Rookie De‘Aaron Fox led the Kings with 18 points. Sacramento didn’t score 20 points in a quarter until getting 27 in the fourth.
Jazz 96, Thunder 87
Joe Ingles scored 19 points and the shorthanded Utah Jazz used a dominating defensive performance to knock off Oklahoma City.
Ingles led a balanced attack as five Jazz players scored in double figures. He finished with 19 points. Rudy Gobert also had a big night for the Jazz with 16 points and 13 rebounds. Ricky Rubio added 16 points, six rebounds and five assists.
Bucks 113, Trail Blazers 110
Giannis Antetokounmpo stepped to the free-throw line with a chance to save the night for Milwaukee, only to miss both shots.
Antetokounmpo followed those misses with a steal, a go-ahead dunk and a game-saving block in the final seconds as the Milwaukee held off Portland at the Bradley Center. He finished with a career-high 44 points.


LAGO RANCO, Chile (Reuters) - Mexican Jonathan Paredes capitalized on a late mistake by six-time champion Gary Hunt to win his maiden Red Bull Cliff Diving World Series title in Chile on Saturday.
The 28-year-old watched as Briton Hunt accidentally added an extra twist to his final dive, giving him a zero for the effort and opening the door for Parades.
The Mexico City native nailed his fourth and final dive to raise his World Series total to 720 points and take home the 2017 King Kahekili trophy.
Hunt ended the 2017 season with 710 points while fellow Briton Blake Aldridge finished third overall with 580.
On the women’s side Australian Rhiannan Iffland defended her crown to win her second title at the iconic waterfall setting in Lago Ranco.
Iffland overcame injury to finish the season with 890 points overall, 150 points ahead of her countrywoman and second place finisher Helena Merten. Mexican Adriana Jimenez finished third with 690 points.
The Red Bull Cliff Diving World Series began in 2009 and takes place across six locations worldwide. It sees competitors attempt multiple twists and somersaults mid-air from heights as great as 90 feet (27 meters).


AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Australian Daniel Ricciardo could be the hottest property on the Formula One driver market next year and talk of a move to Mercedes for 2019 is gaining traction.
The Red Bull driver fueled the speculation at the U.S. Grand Prix by expressing a desire to measure himself against Lewis Hamilton, the Mercedes driver who is on the brink of becoming a four-times world champion.
“I’ve said for a long time (McLaren’s double world champion Fernando) Alonso or Lewis would be the guys I’d love to see myself against,” Ricciardo told ESPN.
”Alonso’s getting towards the tail of his career so Lewis at the moment is more desirable for me to go up against. So I would like that.
“Obviously I had the chance with Seb (Vettel), I’ve had it with Max (Verstappen) and I‘m going to have it again with Max for at least one more year. But while Lewis is in his prime I would like to challenge and see.”
Red Bull announced on Friday that Verstappen, 20, had agreed a new contract keeping him at the former world champions until the end of 2020.
More telling in the statement announcing that move was a comment by Red Bull team principal Christian Horner declaring the Dutch youngster to be “in the best place in the sport to build a team around him to deliver our shared ambition.”
Ricciardo, 28, will be out of contract at the end of 2018, as will Mercedes’ Valtteri Bottas.
“For me, it tells us that they (Red Bull) know Ricciardo is off,” said former racer and Sky Sports television commentator Martin Brundle of the Verstappen announcement.
“It tells me Ricciardo will be in a Mercedes in 2019.”
The Australian is also highly rated by Ferrari but repeating the old pairing of Ricciardo and Vettel at Red Bull might not be to either driver’s taste.
Ricciardo beat four times champion Vettel over the 2014 season, a year when the German -- who joined Ferrari in 2015 -- was reigning champion but strangely below par.
Vettel now has a contract with the Italian team until the end of 2020, while Hamilton’s is up for renewal at the end of next season.
Ricciardo said he would take his time to decide what to do and ultimately having a winning car was what mattered.
“I like the (Red Bull) brand a lot and obviously I like the team a lot. We’ve always been a good fit for each other so from that side it’s all been really good. But for sure the performance is the number one box to tick,” he said.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Nathan Chen of the United States won the first grand prix event of the season in Moscow on Saturday, while Russia’s Evgenia Medvedeva took first place in the women’s event despite a fall.
Chen, 18, doubled a triple lutz and did not stick to his announced free program but still managed to score 193.25 points to win the event with an overall score of 293.75 points.
Chen said he was pleased with his quads in the first half of his free program but admitted fatigue had caught up to him and triggered mistakes.
“But this is my first grand prix win and I‘m excited for the rest of the season,” Chen said.
Moscow’s grand prix event is the first of six to qualify for the Grand Prix Final in Japan in December, which comes two months before the start of the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang.
Japan’s Yuzuru Hanyu, the defending Olympic champion, landed three quads but missed a combination jump, tripled a quad loop and doubled a quad toeloop to finish second overall, around three points behind Chen.
“I‘m a little bit satisfied with my performance,” Hanyu said.
“I didn’t rotate my loop and I couldn’t do my combination. That was the three-point difference.”
Hanyu had finished second behind Chen in the short program on Friday, earning 94.85 points after making a shaky landing on the quad loop jump at the start of his performance.
Chen was nearly six points ahead of Hanyu in the short program, recording 100.54 points in a performance that included a dazzling quad lutz and triple toe loop combination.
Russia’s Mikhail Kolyada finished third in the grand prix event with a total score of 271.06 points.
In the women’s event, Medvedeva was on her way to complete a near-perfect program until she fell on a double axel toward the end of her performance.
The 17-year-old Russian simply laughed off her tumble and won the competition with a score of 231.21, more than 15 points ahead of the second-place finisher, Italy’s Carolina Kostner.
“I think it’s a useful mistake, I will learn from it,” Medvedeva said. “I was satisfied with my performance. I worked well today.”
Japan’s Wakaba Higuchi secured third place with 207.17 points.
Russian pairs swept the top three places in their event, with Evgenia Tarasova and Vladimir Morozov finishing first with 224.25 points.
Tarasova and Morozov, the bronze medalists at this year’s world championships, finished nearly 20 points ahead of second-place finishers Ksenia Stolbova and Fedor Klimov.
Kristina Astakhova and Alexei Rogonov finished third.
American brother and sister duo Maia and Alex Shibutani, who earned bronze at this year’s world championships, won the ice dance with a total score of 189.24 points, finishing 4.50 points ahead of Russia’s Ekaterina Bobrova and Dmitry Soloviev.
“It was exciting to debut our two new programs at this competition,” Maia Shibutani said. “We are very proud of the work we’ve put in.”


MADRID (Reuters) - Sergio Garcia heads the leaderboard by one shot on home territory going into the final round of the Andalucia Valderrama Masters, while Daniel Brooks put himself in contention.
Brooks shot a superb 64 in the third round to take the clubhouse lead, but Garcia’s 68 put him ahead of the Englishman.
The Spaniard celebrated being given honorary life membership of the European Tour on Friday as he birdied the second and third, delighting his fans in Cadiz.
Overnight leader Joost Luiten of the Netherlands, who picked up the third albatross in the tournament’s history on Friday, is two shots off the pace after shooting a 71 on an inconsistent day.


(Reuters) - Singer Justine Skye dropped to a knee toward the end of her rendition of The Star-Spangled Banner prior to the Brooklyn Nets home opener against the Orlando Magic on Friday.
Some NFL players have sat or taken a knee during renditions of the song the past two seasons to protest racial inequality in the United States but NBA players have stood in accordance with league rules.
The protests have raised the ire of U.S. President Donald Trump, who says the players are being disrespectful to the country and the military.
In an online post, the 22-year-old Brooklyn native said she was uneasy about singing the song to begin with and said she probably would not be asked to do so again.
“I had to take a knee for the opening game in my city and let my voice be heard,” Skye wrote in an Instagram post along with a video of the performance.
“We will not be silenced,” she said, adding an emoji of a clenched fist and the hashtag #blacklivesmatter.


AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Going full throttle almost took on a new meaning for Brendon Hartley after his helmet lifted at speed during his first Formula One practice session on Friday.
The first New Zealand grand prix driver for 33 years otherwise sounded pretty happy with his day’s work, despite collecting a 25-place grid penalty before he had even stepped into the car at the U.S. Grand Prix.
Hartley completed 69 laps, more than a race distance, and went through the pre-set program with barely a hiccup in the Toro Rosso. At the end of the afternoon he was 17th.
He appeared completely unfazed when talking to reporters afterwards.
For a man who had not driven a Formula One car since 2010, another era altogether, and whose last single seater outing was in 2012, it all stacked up to an impressive and memorable experience.
“I‘m 27, I‘m not a young rookie,” he said by way of explanation for the laid-back approach.
”It was a pretty positive first day. I tried to not over-think it, I just tried to go out and see how I felt in the first session.
“I kept it (the car) on track, made good progression through the day, did a lot of practice starts, pitstop practice which was something quite new to me ... and it’s only taking two and a half seconds.”
A Le Mans 24 Hours winner with Porsche and also a world endurance champion, Hartley is no stranger to high performance racing but he recognized he still had a lot to learn, particularly through the quick corners, and to improve on before Sunday’s race.
Whatever his grid position after qualifying, the New Zealander will be starting at the back due to an engine switch he inherited as a result of being a late replacement for absent Frenchman Pierre Gasly.
Hartley cannot change that but there is unlikely to be any repeat of the helmet problem.
“We had some issues with the helmet lifting up and trying to choke me,” he said. “I guess they designed the car around a certain helmet and I’ve turned up with a different one. So we’re getting on top of that.”
The team added a small windshield and there will be continuing tweaks with the drivers’ seat but otherwise Hartley felt at home.
“I feel positive I can do the drive come Sunday,” he said.
“The feedback I got so far from everyone was positive. They were really happy with the long run and how I managed the tires at the end, which is a big part of the job.”


AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Formula One title favorite Lewis Hamilton shattered the Circuit of the Americas track record on Friday as he dominated practice for a U.S. Grand Prix that could bring him a fourth world championship.
The Mercedes driver had been half a second quicker already than his Ferrari rival Sebastian Vettel in a damp opening session and dazzled in the afternoon as the sun made an appearance.
His storming time of one minute 34.668 seconds was the fastest ever at the Texas track and the Briton, winner of four out of five races to date there, was the only driver on the timesheets below the 1:35 mark.
Hamilton, 59 points clear of Vettel with four races and a total of 100 points remaining to be won, took pole in Austin last year with a record lap of 1:34.999.
Red Bull’s Max Verstappen, fresh from signing a new contract through to the end of 2020, was second fastest in 1:35.065 with Vettel third in 1:35.192.
“It’s been an interesting day with lots of ups and downs in terms of how the track has moved around and how the car feels. But overall the car was feeling good,” said Hamilton, who could count on plenty of local support.
“There are lots of areas we can improve on, but generally it feels like a solid platform and a solid start to the weekend.”
Hamilton’s morning time was 1:36.335 seconds on the supersoft tires.
Vettel had a difficult afternoon, spinning into the gravel and complaining that the front of the car felt “like jelly”, a problem that cost him precious track time while mechanics worked on the car.
“It was a messy afternoon and not an easy session but the car is quick so no need to worry,” the German told reporters.
“Obviously we lost a lot of time but you need to take precautions. Now we need to have a good look but I‘m sure for tomorrow we’ll have more planned running and less trouble,” he added.
Hamilton, who has won all but one of the five races since the August break, is clear favorite to triumph again on Sunday but he will need to score 16 points more than Vettel to clinch the title.
That means finishing first or second on Sunday, and hoping Vettel has a nightmare for the fourth race in a row. Otherwise the championship fight will remain open to the next round in Mexico.
While much of the attention was on the title rivals, Spaniard Carlos Sainz and New Zealand debutant Brendon Hartley also caught the eye with strong performances.
Sainz, moving to Renault from Toro Rosso in place of the dropped Briton Jolyon Palmer, was quicker than German team mate Nico Hulkenberg in both sessions.
Hartley, who will have a 25-place grid penalty for his debut, stepped into a single seater for the first time since 2012 and looked at home straight away with the 14th best time of the morning.
He was 17th in the afternoon, with Russian team mate Daniil Kvyat 1.2 seconds quicker in 13th.
The New Zealander, a Le Mans 24 Hours winner, did more laps (13 more than the 56 lap race distance) than anybody else as he drove an F1 car for the first time since 2010 when V8 engines were still around.
McLaren’s Fernando Alonso made up lost time after a hydraulics problem in the morning with the seventh best time.


AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - Ferrari changed the chassis of Sebastian Vettel’s car on Friday after failing to get to the bottom of problems he experienced in practice for what could be a title-deciding U.S. Formula One Grand Prix.
A team spokesman said mechanics had found nothing wrong with the car after the German complained the front felt “like jelly”, and had therefore decided to change the survival cell as a precaution. He said no penalty would be incurred.
The governing FIA said stewards had agreed the car could be submitted for re-scrutineering on Saturday before final practice.
“I felt something was not right with the car so we came in a couple of times to check and then go out to double and triple check. We are looking into it to try to see something,” Vettel had said after second practice.
Vettel is 59 points behind Mercedes’ Lewis Hamilton with four races remaining.
Hamilton, who was fastest in both practice sessions for a race he has won four times in the last five years, can secure his fourth championship if he beats Vettel by 16 points.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Washington Nationals have won four National League East division titles since 2012 under three different managers.
But the Nationals are still looking for a postseason series win and some stability in the dugout, as the club announced Friday that manager Dusty Baker will not return in 2018 after his two-year contract expired.
The Detroit Tigers opted for experience in their managerial search and announced the appointment of Ron Gardenhire to run the club with a three-year contract.
Gardenhire, who turns 60 on Tuesday, is deeply familiar with the American League Central after spending 13 seasons in the division as manager of the Minnesota Twins. Minnesota made six postseason appearances during his tenure from 2002-2014.
Nationals second baseman Daniel Murphy underwent surgery to repair damage to the articular cartilage in his right knee, the team announced.
Murphy, 32, will begin the rehab process immediately.
Tigers general manager Al Avila announced that the team will not pick up the $16 million club option on right-hander Anibal Sanchez.
Instead the Tigers will pay him a $5 million buyout.


(Reuters) - Oakland Raiders running back Marshawn Lynch has been suspended for one game after pushing an official and grabbing his jersey during their home win over the Kansas City Chiefs, the NFL said in a statement on Friday.
Lynch ran from the sideline and onto the field during the second quarter after Raiders quarterback Derek Carr took a hit from Chiefs cornerback Marcus Peters at the end of a play.
After pushing the official, Lynch was ejected from the game and will have to sit out next Sunday’s matchup against Buffalo unless he successfully appeals the league’s decision.
Lynch has three business days to file an appeal.
“You made deliberate physical contact with one of our game officials as he was diffusing an active confrontation between players,” Jon Runyan, NFL vice president of Football Operations, said in a letter to Lynch.
A Super Bowl champion in the 2013/14 season with the Seattle Seahawks, Lynch joined the Raiders this year after a brief retirement following the 2015 season.
Despite improving their record to 3-4 with Thursday’s win, both the Raiders and Lynch have struggled this season amid high expectations for the team, who lost the AFC Wild Card game last season.
Following his ejection on Thursday, fans posted photos of the Oakland native with his face covered watching the second half from the stands and riding public transportation after the game.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Green Bay Packers placed quarterback Aaron Rodgers on injured reserve Friday, one day after he underwent surgery to repair his broken right collarbone.
Rodgers was injured in the first quarter of last Sunday’s 23-10 loss at Minnesota after taking a hard hit from Vikings linebacker Anthony Barr.
Though the Packers placed Rodgers on IR, they still could bring him back after eight weeks and give him a chance to return for the Week 15 game at Carolina on Dec. 17.
Packers coach Mike McCarthy indicated that was one of the discussion points prior to the decision being announced.
Backup quarterback Brett Hundley will make his first NFL start on Sunday for the Packers, who are tied with the Vikings at 4-2 for first place in the NFC North.
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers needed only to watch quarterback Jameis Winston throw footballs one day this week to know he is well enough to start Sunday’s game at Buffalo.
Winston, who suffered an AC joint sprain in his right throwing shoulder in last Sunday’s 38-33 loss at Arizona, took every rep with the first-team offense Friday -- the first day he had thrown passes since the injury.
Winston has not missed a start in 37 games in the NFL and has thrown all but 11 passes for the Bucs during that stretch.
In other Bucs’ injury news, middle linebacker Kwon Alexander will make his first start Sunday at Buffalo since aggravating a hamstring injury in the season opener against Chicago.
The Carolina Panthers ruled out middle linebacker Luke Kuechly for Sunday’s game against the Chicago Bears as he remained in the NFL’s concussion protocol.
Kuechly suffered a concussion in last Thursday night’s 28-23 loss to the Philadelphia Eagles. He did not get clearance over the last week for practice, even though he was seen participating in some individual drills.
Kuechly missed three games in 2015 and six games last season after suffering concussions. Coach Ron Rivera said Kuechly is “progressing nicely through the protocol.”
Minnesota Vikings linebacker Anthony Barr did get fined by the NFL, but not for the offense some expected.
Barr drew considerable attention for the hit he put on Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers last Sunday, a blow that broke Rodgers’ collarbone, causing him to be placed on injured reserve Friday.
Apparently the NFL had no problem with that hit, however, because Barr was not fined for that. Rather Barr was fined $9,115 for head-butting Packers wide receiver Davante Adams, according to reports from multiple media outlets Friday.
Also, Vikings wide receiver Laquon Treadwell was fined of $24,309 for an illegal blindside block, according to the St. Paul Pioneer Press.
The Indianapolis Colts placed running back Robert Turbin on the injured reserve list after he suffered a dislocated left elbow in Monday night’s loss to the Tennessee Titans.
The 5-foot-10, 216-pound Turbin played in all six games (one start) for Indianapolis this season with 23 carries for 53 yards and one touchdown. He also caught nine passes for 56 yards.
Turbin, 27, was escorted to the locker room in the 36-22 loss on Monday after a 9-yard reception with 2:30 left in the game. He tried to brace himself with his left arm before he was tackled.
In a corresponding move, the Colts elevated running back Josh Ferguson to the 53-man roster from the practice squad.
The New York Giants ruled out defensive end Olivier Vernon for the third straight week and listed wide receiver Sterling Shepard as questionable for Sunday’s game against the Seattle Seahawks.
Vernon (ankle), center Weston Richburg (concussion), linebackers Jonathan Casillas (neck) and Calvin Munson (quad) and running back Paul Perkins (ribs) were all ruled out by the team on Friday.


(The Sports Xchange) - Houston Rockets point guard Chris Paul will miss two to four weeks due to a bruised left knee, according to multiple reports on Friday.
The nine-time All-Star was hampered by the knee problem in Tuesday’s season-opening victory over the Golden State Warriors before sitting out the following night’s game against the Sacramento Kings.
Houston coach Mike D‘Antoni downplayed the seriousness of the injury earlier Friday when he revealed Paul would miss Saturday’s game against the Dallas Mavericks.
“It’s only a bump,” D‘Antoni told reporters. “It’s not a tear or something like that. It’s a bruise. We just have to make sure he’s 100 percent the next time he plays. I don’t think there’s (concern). All indications are he should be OK.”
Paul originally suffered the injury in a preseason game against Memphis on Oct. 11, when he bumped knees with Grizzlies guard Mario Chalmers. He played 33 minutes in the season-opening win over the Warriors but had just four points on 2-of-9 shooting, though he did contribute 11 assists.
Jenny Boucek became the second current full-time female coach in the NBA when the Sacramento Kings hired the former WNBA coach as assistant coach for player development.
Boucek, 43, joins San Antonio Spurs assistant Becky Hammon as the lone full-time female assistant coaches.
Brooklyn Nets point guard Jeremy Lin underwent surgery to repair a ruptured patella tendon in his right knee, the team announced.
The team said Thursday that Lin will miss the remainder of the 2017-18 season. On Friday, the Nets added he is expected to make a full recovery.


(The Sports Xchange) - Jenny Boucek became the second current full-time female coach in the NBA on Friday, when the Sacramento Kings hired the former WNBA coach as assistant coach for player development.
Boucek, 43, joins San Antonio Spurs assistant Becky Hammon as the lone full-time female assistant coaches.
Boucek will be on the bench Friday night alongside coach Dave Joerger and the rest of the staff when the Kings visit the Dallas Mavericks.
“Over the years, I’ve crossed paths with Dave several times,” Boucek told espn.com.
“I feel like we have a lot in common because we got into coaching in the pros at young ages. We stayed in touch and supported each other. I spent some time observing with their staff here a couple of times, and it evolved into this.”
Boucek was most recently the head coach for the WNBA’s Seattle Storm and was fired in August with eight games remaining in the 2017 season. She had a 36-58 record in parts of three seasons with the Storm.
Boucek spent 2 1/2 seasons as coach of the WNBA Sacramento Monarchs from 2007-09, compiling a 40-41 record.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Nathan Chen of the United States stunned reigning world champion Yuzuru Hanyu of Japan in the grand prix season opening in Moscow by taking first place in the short program, while two-time world champion Evgenia Medvedeva again showcased her dominance of the women’s circuit.
Chen recorded a season-best performance of 100.54 points at the first of six events to qualify for the Grand Prix Final in Japan in December, which comes barely two months before the start of the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang.
He had two shaky landings on his quad flip and triple axel jumps. He made up for it, however, with a spectacular combination of the quad lutz and triple toe loop.
“In terms of the program, I‘m happy with the scores that I got,” Chen told a news conference. “I‘m going to have a lot of work going into the Games. But as of now I‘m happy with what I did and just have to keep my mind straight and keep working hard.”
Hanyu, the defending Olympic champion, made a difficult landing on the quad loop jump at the start of his program before falling on his triple toe loop, earning him 94.85 points.
The 22-year-old – who set a short program record score of 112.72 points last month — told reporters that “just little things” had gone wrong and that he was eager to refocus for Saturday’s free program.
“I feel really close to success,” Hanyu said. “I will just fix those things for tomorrow. I will recover. I will do better tomorrow.”
Dmitry Aliev of Russia, who was taking part in his first senior grand prix, finished third with 88.77 points.
Kazakhstan’s Denis Ten, who won bronze at the 2014 Sochi Olympics, finished 10th with 69.00 points after a disappointing performance that saw him stumble on his quad salchow and fall on his triple toe loop.
Ten suffered an ankle injury earlier this year and underwent extensive rehabilitation, setting him back in his preparations for the Games next year.
MEDVEDEVA‘S BEST
On the women’s side Medvedeva – a two-time world and two-time European champion - skated a program full of grace and technical skill, earning her first place in the short program with 80.75 points.
“I‘m pleased with my skate but there were some nuances that I didn’t like, mostly about my focus,” the 17-year-old said.
Italy’s Carolina Kostner, 30, finished second with 74.62 points -- her highest score since the 2014 world championships.
Kostner has been fighting to make up for lost time since she was banned for 16 months in January 2015 after Italian officials found her guilty of assisting 2008 Olympic race walking gold medalist Alex Schwazer in evading a drugs test.
“The work in coming back to competitive skating, or continuing in competitive skating, has been a long and difficult process,” Kostner said.
“I don’t think it’s finished yet. The roof is very much open and I‘m very looking forward to where I can go.”
Mirai Nagasu of the United States could have challenged the leaders when she landed a triple axel but she fell on her triple toeloop and triple lutz, mistakes that saw her finish ninth with 56.15 points.
In pairs, Russia’s Evgenia Tarasova and Vladimir Morozov led the pack with 76.98 points.
Their compatriots Ksenia Stolbova and Fedor Klimov, who won silver in the Sochi Games in 2014, came in second, scoring a season-best 71.39 points even though Stolbova fell on her triple toe loop.
“We think we skated well apart from one mistake that we consider accidental,” Klimov told reporters.
American brother and sister duo Maia and Alex Shibutani -- who won bronze at the world championships this year -- dominated the short ice dance, finishing first with 77.30 points.
Russian ice dancers Ekaterina Bobrova and Dmitry Soloviev finished close behind with 76.33 points.

