
(Reuters) - It’s the ninth time he’s designed the Olympic downhill ski course, but Bernhard Russi will still feel his nerves tauten when racing gets under way in South Korea next month.
The 69-year-old Swiss knows better than most the excitement  of competing at the highest level. He won the Olympic title in 1972 and was narrowly beaten by Austria’s Franz Klammer four years later - the closest any men’s downhill champion has come to making a successful defense of his crown.
Further playing on his nerves, though, is the knowledge of the extreme risks faced by the men and women trying to conquer the course he has set.
“Listen, I used to be a downhiller myself. This will never go away,” Russi told Reuters. “I will always be nervous because somewhere I am always also a little bit afraid, because I know too good that bad things can happen every moment, every time, every day.”
The run-up to these Olympics has highlighted that danger, with the deaths of Frenchman David Poisson and German teenager Max Burkhart in the space of just several weeks in November and December.
While Russi sees the timing as a tragic coincidence, the risk inherent in the sport is a constant.
As he talks about the job of designing courses, it’s clear he sees one of his most vital roles as building in a safety margin for the athletes at the same time as guaranteeing a thrilling spectacle.
“I think in a good downhill I need at least three good jumps. I have to count that the jumps are probably 50 meters long, so I have to be careful that the landing zone is probably 70, 80 meters,” he said.
“If I calculate that with the speed, and the edge and the steepness the racers will jump 50 meters, I have to give them an additional space of 10 to 20 meters for safely landing in case somebody misses the jump completely - then instead of jumping 45 meters he will fly for 70, and I have to make sure that if he makes this mistake he’s not landing on the flat.”
The complexity of the course designer’s task varies hugely from one Olympics to the next, depending on whether there is existing ski infrastructure on the mountain.
The Jeongseon site in South Korea is one of several where Russi has started from zero - when he first went there in 2001, there was “nothing at all. There was a forest road until maybe half-way up and from there nothing, not even a cat walk.”
It was after the Koreans were finally awarded the Games in 2011, at their third attempt, that the Swiss set to work. Since then, he estimates he has visited about 30 times.
The first step is to study the maps, assessing the contours and judging the steepness of the various possible descents.    The second is to get his hiking boots on.
“I always say I walk the mountain in order to be able to listen to what the mountain is telling me... Especially in this case, I felt that here is a mountain which has a lot of changing terrains.”
Through his exploration, Russi gets to know the steep and flatter portions, discover the edges and ridges.
“After I know that, I try to build up the story of the mountain. Is it a wild one, or is it a more technical one, or is it more speed or is it more air?”
Sometimes he needs to modify the terrain, for example by filling in a hole or moving some earth to create an adequate landing zone.
But generally he aims to touch the mountain as little as possible. He’s proud that for these Olympics, in the interest of sustainability, agreement was reached to build a single downhill course for men and women - something that hasn’t been done before, but will be repeated when China hosts the Games in 2022.
After years of work, the time comes to test the course with the world’s best skiers. Norway’s Kjetil Jansrud won a men’s World Cup downhill here in 2016, and Italy’s Sofia Goggia pipped American Lindsey Vonn in a women’s race last March - victories that should boost their confidence heading into the Games.
But the course will include some new tweaks for the Olympics.
“It has been tested very well but after the test there are always some small changes in course-setting and I think we can add a little bit of difficulty towards the Olympics - so I would say that the course will be more difficult than in 2016,” said Russi.
“It’s going to be a very challenging downhill, a very difficult downhill, a very attractive downhill.”
If he’s done his job well, he will have set the stage next month - as he has so many times before - for what many see as the purest, most thrilling form of winter sports competition.
“You have the top of the mountain, you have the bottom of the mountain, and in between - that’s the challenge,” he said.
“The downhill is the mountain and the man.”


LONDON (Reuters) - Most of the top Alpine skiers have grown up on snow, which is something of a disadvantage for those whose countries see little of the stuff.
But that does not mean all of those ‘outsiders’ have no chance of success.
“We’re always going to be behind the Austrians, French or whatever because they were on these mountains when they were four years old,” says Britain’s leading Alpine skier Dave Ryding.
“We don’t learn the terrain, the snow, and you have to refine the skill of skiing on snow,” the 31-year-old, who learnt to ski on dry slopes around England and Wales, told Reuters in an interview.
And yet Ryding finished second in the Kitzbuehel World Cup slalom last January, the best finish by a Briton in 35 years, and led the first leg of the season opener in Levi, Finland, in November before missing a gate in the second run.
He was sixth in the Madonna di Campiglio slalom in December and fourth in a parallel slalom city event in Oslo on New Year’s Day.
“I always believed I can catch them up, eventually,” said the veteran of two Olympics.
Talk of a level playing field, even metaphorically, sits ill with a sport whose stars race down steep and icy pistes, over bumps and jumps and through the tight twists and turns of a rutted slalom slope.
The Austrians, Swiss and other ‘snow powers’ receive an avalanche of funding for the national sport, along with world class training facilities, while those without mountains on their doorstep look on enviously.
The Olympic men’s downhill, the sport’s blue riband event, has only ever been won by skiers from Alpine nations or the United States.
The World Cup has been hosted in 25 countries, from Australia to Argentina, but the only ones from outside that group to have won an Olympic Alpine medal are Luxembourg and Liechtenstein.
Luxembourg features on the list only because Austrian Marc Girardelli, who went on to become a five times overall World Cup champion, fell out with his national federation as a teenager and found another.
Ryding first trained on snow at 12, after starting on dry slopes, and moved to Austria at 18 to improve his technique. It has not been easy but his determination is paying off.
“They have it cushy,” said the Briton of some of his Austrian rivals.
He recognized, however, that they were also more likely to suffer burnout from the pressure of competing from a much younger age.
Ryding is now well-funded, compared to previous British athletes, and has shown he can compete with the best. He has his own coach, service man, physio and assistant but it was not always thus.
“In the past, say three years ago, it was literally me and my coach and I was doing my own skis, I was doing everything myself so that was also very hard,” he said.
”Back then it was costing me personally 15-20,000 (euros)  ($23,719.78) a year... but my whole team budget back then was less than 100,000.
“The Austrian slalom team, their budget will be around six million. That’s just for their season.”
Marcel Hirscher, the Austrian who has been overall World Cup champion for the past six seasons and who beat Ryding in that Kitzbuehel slalom, can count on far greater support and resources.
Ski maker Atomic, who employ Hirscher’s brother, will have a team of their own experts working with team coaches to ensure the equipment meets his every requirement.
The same goes for other top medal contenders on the World Cup circuit.
Team GB’s Pyeongchang Chef de Mission Mike Hay pointed to Norway, also an Alpine force to be reckoned with, as another country making sure their athletes have every possible advantage.
“They’re like a Formula One team,” he said of their Nordic skiing investment. “They pull up to World Cup events with massive double-decker buses all fitted out for their wax techs below.”
Yet Ryding’s results have brought new respect from the established powers, more used to non-Alpine no-hopers turning up as colorful also-rans, as well as more than a few questions.
“When I‘m sitting down at the chef de missions seminar a year out before the Games, the Swiss and Austrian guys around the table are going ‘What are you guys doing there to have somebody coming up and taking a podium?',” said Hay.
“We’re a lot more professional than we used to be, when we turned up in a battered old car having driven 250km or more from the last race overnight.”
($1 = 0.8438 euros)


ALTENMARKT, Austria (Reuters) - It is not just American hopes that will be riding on the performance of Mikaela Shiffrin when the world’s top woman alpine skier takes to the slopes at the Winter Olympics in South Korea next month.
Half a world away in the small Austrian town of Altenmarkt, the marketing and tech teams at ski manufacturer Atomic will be closely watching the medal count in Pyeongchang, the culmination of about 18 months of internal company planning.
Of 900 staff based at the company south of Salzburg, 38 are part of a team of international specialists, whose job is to develop ever-sleeker and more manoeuvrable skis for everything from racing to backcountry touring.
Whereas in the early 1990s design was revolutionised by switching from long, straight racing skis to a side-cut ‘parabolic’ shape, and later shifts focused on the camber, or arch, of the ski, the trend in recent years has been towards more advanced materials such as titanium.
Atomic General Manager Wolfgang Mayrhofer said the thinner, less dense materials, including lighter wood cores, and the deeper sidecuts permitted under new giant slalom rules have made a big difference to the skis.
“The skis are easier to turn,” said Austria’s Marcel Hirscher, the six-times overall World Cup champion who is bidding for his first Olympic gold medal in Pyeongchang.
”But now with the new materials they can ski different lines, they keep the same stability and rigidity but they are much more flexible, much more dampening.
“So it’s big progress since the Sochi days, since the last Olympics.”
In the speed events of downhill and super-G there has been no fundamental change to ski design in the past 10 years, according to Matt Humphreys, winter sports boss at HEAD UK, but new materials have changed their composition.
Austria-based HEAD, whose skis are used by Olympic champions Lindsey Vonn, Ted Ligety, Kjetil Jansrud and Aksel Lund Svindal, have said it is the only manufacturer to incorporate graphene, a super-thin, super-strong form of carbon that was isolated by scientists only in 2004.
The point is not to make racing skis lighter, as a heavier ski provides more stability for a downhill racer hitting speeds around 90 miles/hour (145 km/h) but to improve the flexibility and the distribution of power.
“With us using graphene, we can get the flex pattern exactly how we want it to be ... the more we put in, the stiffer and stronger the ski becomes,” said Humphreys.
That cutting edge design does not end with the ski.
Minute, detailed effort goes into the fit and comfort of boots as well as their ‘canting’ - the slight inward- or outward-tilting angle of the shoe that is tailored to match the angle of the skier’s knees.
“Where we try and get ahead of the game is with some of our top athletes,” Humphreys said.
“We do have casts of their feet and their lower legs so we can work on them in terms of pressure points and customisation without the athlete having to be there.”
For Atomic, their top athletes are local product Hirscher, who lives close to Altenmarkt, and Shiffrin, who won the slalom gold in Sochi and became the overall World Cup women’s champion this year.
“I started skiing on Atomic when I was 12 and have skied Atomic skis, boots, and bindings since then,” the American told Reuters.
“It was just a natural progression for me to stick with the skis that I had been so confident on as I started racing on the World Cup.”
Atomic, like the other manufacturers HEAD and Frances’ Rossignol, send their technical experts to accompany the top racers at every event, working closely with their coaches and national federations, to tune and service their gear like a Formula One team to suit the conditions.
“They’re athletes, they’re champions, they’re demanding,” Mayrhofer added.
“Therefore you need a team. For Hirscher, for Shiffrin you have a dedicated team with ski makers, boot specialists, you have all the experts there.”
With the event now in sight, Mayrhofer said he felt quietly confident all of their planning would pay off.
”I have a good feeling we are nicely prepared. I feel good we will have everything we need,“ he said. ”Then it’s always (necessary) of course to be a bit lucky also.
“But we have great athletes, we have all the stuff together which is needed to win.”


LONDON (Reuters) - Olympic downhills have a special allure, with the fastest and bravest Alpine skiers going full tilt for gold and a place in history.
Pyeongchang will see no change there but newer events more targeted at millenials and younger audiences may be muscling in on the limelight enjoyed by the traditional blue riband races.
The mixed team event, run already at world championships and featuring male and female skiers in a parallel slalom format with races lasting some 25 seconds, should be a hit on its   Olympic debut.
“I think it will be one of the highlights of the Olympics,” women’s Alpine race director Atle Skaardal, a two times men’s Super-G world champion for Norway, said before the season started.
Freestyle skiing, slopestyle and big air snowboarding -- another eye-catching 2018 Olympic newcomer -- have the added appeal of proving more accessible to skiers from non-Alpine nations.
Traditional Alpine skiing has been woven into the fabric of the Games since 1936, even if the men’s downhill did not appear until 1948, and a core element for broadcasters and the commercial sector alike.
That remains the case, despite the increasing range of media platforms and fragmentation of the audience as a whole.
“Alpine is always going to be the blue riband,” Matt Humphreys, winter sports boss at the UK division of ski suppliers Head told Reuters.
”When you look at these other events like slopestyle, skicross, the younger sports, they do capture the imagination probably a little bit better than Alpine because it’s newer and fresher.
“But ... I think it’s always going to be the Alpine that wins out.”
Reflecting its big ticket status, the men’s downhill will be held on the opening Sunday of the Games at the Jeongseong Alpine centre.
About as extreme as it gets, the dangerous and daunting discipline sees racers hurtling in excess of 130kph down the mountain -- and the winner often a surprise from far down the list of favorites.
For U.S. audiences the women’s race on Feb. 21 could be an even bigger deal than the men‘s, with American speed queen Lindsey Vonn and all-rounder Mikaela Shiffrin two of the more recognizable names on the slopes.
Vonn, the most successful women’s World Cup ski racer of all-time with a record 78 victories, has a portfolio of sponsors that includes Under Armour, Red Bull and Head and was ranked by Forbes as the third highest earning athlete at the 2010 Vancouver Olympics.
NBC television said Pyeongchang, 14 hours ahead of U.S. Eastern Time (ET), will be their “most live primetime” Winter Games yet and live Alpine skiing will feature on 11 of the 18 nights.
The U.S. network has already reported increased viewing figures for the North American rounds of the World Cup season.
Eurosport Chief Executive Peter Hutton said his broadcaster was also seeing increased viewing figures across snow sports, with all the Olympic competitions to be available on mobile devices.
“Sports such as snowboarding are doing a great job to attract younger audiences,” he added.
Eurosport will also, for the first time, have a dedicated ‘Radical Van’ mobile social media studio at the PyeongChang Snowpark and other venues to cater for new audiences.
The growth of the newer sports, however, was not cannibalizing the traditional Alpine events and was in fact benefiting them, according Rob Prazmark, founder and chief executive of 21 Sports and Entertainment Marketing Group.
“That’s a good thing, for the Olympic Winter Games, that they are able to change up the sport to appeal to a younger and a different demographic,” he told Reuters in a telephone interview.
”I think interest in Alpine grows because of the addition of different or extreme sports -- or sports that are really most popular with a younger demographic. The whole business of Alpine is growing.
“Downhill Alpine is still extreme,” added Prazmark, who has been involved in every Olympics since 1984 as a consultant and rights negotiator.
That said, he was aware from his own family how the recreational landscape was changing.
“I’ve got four kids. They run in ages from 34 to 21. My 21-year-old has never been on skis. She’s only been on a snowboard,” he said.
”And she doesn’t quite understand the attraction of skis.
”So that’s where there’s a big shift into the extreme sports, I believe.
“It’s a generational, millennial thing as well.”


(Reuters) - Britain’s Johanna Konta was pushed to the brink for the second time in as many rounds before advancing to the quarter-finals while world number two Garbine Muguruza of Spain succumbed to leg cramps in her opening clash at the Brisbane International on Tuesday.
Konta, who overcame local hope Ajla Tomljanovic 4-6 6-1 6-4 in two hours and 26 minutes at the Pat Rafter Arena, set up a meeting with the winner of the match between Ukraine’s Elina Svitolina and Croatia’s Ana Konjuh.
The Briton faced 13 break points in the first set and struggled with her rhythm as the big-hitting Tomljanovic stormed into an early lead.
Konta, who had similar struggles with her serve in her opening match against American Madison Keys, a U.S. Open finalist, on Monday, responded with a better performance to level the contest.
The world number nine raced to a 5-2 lead in the deciding set before Tomljanovic showed signs of fighting back. However, Konta held on to finish the job.
”She made that very difficult, so that’s a credit to her and she played incredibly freely at the end of the third set,“ Konta said after the match. ”There wasn’t a lot in it so I‘m very happy to have just stayed tough and just come through that.
“To be honest, it’s a great thing to have two tough matches early on. It’s a boost, the match fitness, and it boosts a lot of the competitive scenarios that we’re going to face the whole year. I‘m sure my next match will be the same.”
Muguruza’s wretched run of injury problems at Brisbane extended to a fourth consecutive year with the Spaniard unable to continue while leading 2-1 in the deciding third set against Serbia’s Aleksandra Krunic.
Meanwhile, France’s Alize Cornet defeated Croatia’s Mirjana Lucic-Baroni 6-1 7-5 to move into the quarter-finals and was joined by seventh seed Anastasija Sevastova of Latvia who beat Romania’s Sorana Cirstea 6-2 6-1.


(Reuters) - Kyle Edmund was taken the distance before he outlasted talented Canadian teenager Denis Shapovalov in the opening round of the Brisbane International on Tuesday.
Edmund, who prevailed 6-7(5) 7-6(4) 6-4, struggled with his serve right from the start of the match but managed to save five out of six break points to overcome his opponent in two hours and 30 minutes.
“Everyone wants to start well but the year is so long that if there’s positivity you feel good but even if you don’t start well it doesn’t mean the year is going to be a bad one,” the Briton said.
“It’s always good to come to Brisbane, I made the quarters last year, got a good win this year so it’s definitely helped my game going into the year.”
Edmund next plays Chung Hyeon after the South Korean world number 58 withstood a barrage of booming serves from fifth seed Gilles Muller before winning 6-3 7-6(1).
Earlier, former world number one Andy Murray’s lingering hip issues forced him to withdraw from the event with the Briton admitting he was unsure whether he could recover in time for the Australian Open later this month.
American Michael Mmoh won his first match on the ATP Tour after seven previous defeats, with a clinical 6-3 6-4 victory over Federico Delbonis. The teenager takes on eighth seed Mischa Zverev in his next match.
Denis Istomin had to dig deep to stun seventh seed Damir Dzumhur, winning 6-7(4), 6-3, 6-2 in two hours and 24 minutes.


CAIRO (Reuters) - A group of Egyptian soccer players have formed a team for one-legged players, hoping to start league for disabled players in the country.
“The Miracle Team,” consists of twenty-five players from across Egypt who meet twice a week to train on a pitch in Cairo. While the team began training in freestyle soccer - a non-competitive art where players perform tricks with a ball - they soon decided to aim higher.
“I started bringing the people in and coach Yousry, the team coach, called me to start training me on freestyle football,” team captain Mahmoud Ibrahim Tawfik, who lost a leg in a road accident more than 20 years ago, told Reuters.
“I told him I have another dream of becoming a real life soccer player not just a freestyle footballer who has skills.”
The team hope to inspire other disabled Egyptians to take up the sport and eventually establish a federation which could regulate a domestic league for the disabled.
“In each governorate we are asking the players to form a team to spread the game,” said team coach Yousry Mohamed Ibrahim.
Despite their enthusiasm, the team faces a raft of challenges: a lack of funding, a paucity of special playing crutches and difficulties finding a regular pitch for training.
Amputee Football has special rules: seven leg-amputee players play on each opposing team, and the goalkeepers must have one arm. Crutches are not allowed to touch the ball and there is no offside rule or limits to substitutions.
There are 42 nations who now have national amputee football federations, according to the World Amputee Football Federation. The next amputee football World Cup is being held in Mexico later this year.


(Reuters) - Maria Sharapova was made to work hard for a victory at the Shenzhen Open, coming from behind to beat unseeded American Alison Riske 4-6 6-3 6-2 in the second round on Tuesday.
The five-times grand slam champion fired 34 winners and saved seven out of 10 break points to get past her spirited opponent and set up a quarter-final clash with Kazakhstan’s Zarina Diyas who beat local hope Zhang Shuai 6-3 6-7(5) 6-4.
Twice a finalist at Shenzhen, Riske used power and precision to breeze through the first set and went up 2-1 in the second to leave Sharapova in trouble. The Russian then reeled off five of the next six games to level the contest at one set apiece.
Sharapova did not let the momentum slip in the deciding set, winning the final four games of the match to prevail in two hours and 22 minutes.
“I‘m glad I got this kind of match,” Sharapova said. “These are the kind of matches you need, especially with such a short preparation going into the Australian Open in terms of match play.”
Earlier, Kristyna Pliskova, the twin of former world number one Karolina Pliskova, stunned French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko 6-1 6-4 and stormed into the second round.
World number seven Ostapenko, who beat returning multiple major champion Serena Williams in an exhibition match in Abu Dhabi over the weekend, was undone by Pliskova’s powerful serves.
“My serve was great today, especially in the first set,” the world number 61 said after her second career win over a top 10 opponent. “I feel like it’s fast here, so that can be tricky for both of us, and the first of us playing fast won the point.”
Pliskova next takes on Romania’s Ana Bogdan, who comfortably defeated Italy’s Camila Giorgi 6-4 6-2.


(Reuters) - Former world number one Andy Murray’s lingering hip issues forced him to withdraw from the Brisbane International on Tuesday with the Briton admitting he was unsure whether he could recover in time for the Australian Open later this month.
Murray has not played a competitive match since a Wimbledon quarter-final loss last July due to the complaint and despite coming through a one-set exhibition in Abu Dhabi last week, he was unable to train on Tuesday and announced his withdrawal.
“I‘m very disappointed to be withdrawing from the Brisbane International,” Murray, seeded second in Brisbane, told tournament organizers before going into further detail of his predicament in an emotional post on social media.
“Having been recommended to treat my hip conservatively since the U.S. Open, I have done everything asked of me from a rehab perspective and worked extremely hard to try get back on the court competing,” Murray said on his Instagram account.
”Having played practice sets here in Brisbane with some top players unfortunately this hasn’t worked yet to get me to the level I would like so I have to reassess my options. Continuing rehab is one option and giving my hip more time to recover.
“Surgery is also an option but the chances of a successful outcome are not as high as I would like which has made this my secondary option and my hope has been to avoid that. However, this is something I may have to consider but let’s hope not.”
The world number 16 had been due to play his first tournament match of the season on Thursday with a second-round encounter against American Ryan Harrison at Pat Rafter Arena. He will be replaced by German lucky loser Yannick Hanfmann.
Murray, who said on Sunday that he planned to trim his schedule in 2018 to prevent a recurrence of his injury issues, will remain in Brisbane for the rest of the week before planning his next move.
“In the short term I‘m going to be staying in Australia for the next couple of days to see if my hip settles down a bit and will decide by the weekend whether to stay out here or fly home to assess what I do next,” the 30-year-old added.
“Sorry for the long post but I wanted to keep everyone in the loop and get this off my chest as it’s really hurting inside.”
Brisbane tournament director Cameron Pearson wished the three-times grand slam winner well.
“I‘m really disappointed for Andy, as I know how much he was looking forward to getting his season started in Brisbane,” he said.
“As a two-time former champion, he has great memories of playing on Pat Rafter Arena and thrilling his fans. I wish him all the best to be ready to play the Australian Open.”
Murray’s latest injury setback will also come as a blow to Australian Open organizers ahead of the year’s first major in Melbourne starting on Jan. 15, along with those of fellow “Big Four” members Rafael Nadal (back) and Novak Djokovic (elbow).


(Reuters) - Caroline Wozniacki capped 2017 with the biggest win of her career when she claimed a maiden WTA Finals triumph in October and the Dane has carried that momentum into the new season with a ruthless display to kick off her Auckland Classic campaign.
The top seed has a chance to usurp world number one Simona Halep with a victory in New Zealand and the 27-year-old needed just 58 minutes to race past American Madison Brengle with a 6-3 6-0 triumph in their first round encounter on Tuesday.
The world number three is still searching for her first grand slam triumph but after emerging victorious in the elite eight-woman event in Singapore, her raised levels of play could see her make that breakthrough in Melbourne later this month.
Wozniacki is also searching for a first triumph in Auckland after reaching the final in 2015 and despite being tested by Brengle early the contest, the Dane pulled away once she found her rhythm and claimed the last seven games to seal victory.
”I thought I played pretty well, especially considering it’s the first match back of the year,“ Wozniacki told reporters. ”It took me a couple of games to kind of just get the rhythm and then I started playing better and better.
“I‘m just trying to get my legs moving, trying to make the right decisions, wait for the right shots to play aggressive and go for it, and find the right balance of offense and defense.”
The win set up a second round encounter against Croatia’s Petra Martic, who overcame Czech player Marketa Vondrousova 7-6(2) 6-3 in their first round tie to advance.
Elsewhere, former world number two and 2013 Auckland champion Agnieszka Radwanska was forced to dig deep to remain on a semi-final collision course with Wozniacki when the Pole eked out a 6-2 4-6 6-2 victory over Brazil’s Beatriz Haddad Maia.
“I‘m just very happy to win my first match of 2018, and I think it was good timing to come back and do it here in Auckland after five years,” Radwanska, who has seen her ranking drop to 28th after a poor 2017, said in her on-court interview.
Third seed Barbora Strycova was also taken the distance in her first round encounter against Italy’s Sara Errani, the Czech emerging with a 6-4 6-7(3) 6-4 victory to set up a second round tie against Sweden’s Johanna Larsson.
The day did not pass without three upsets, however, with defending champion and fifth seed Lauren Davis losing 6-1 6-2 to fellow American Sachia Vickery, while sixth seed Yulia Putintseva and seventh seed Mona Barthel both suffered straight set losses.
The Australian Open is the first grand slam of the season and runs from Jan 15-28 in Melbourne.


(Reuters) - Angelique Kerber showed plenty of tenacity to beat Belgium’s Elise Mertens before teaming up with Alexander Zverev to help Germany get their Hopman Cup campaign off to a winning start at the Perth Arena on Monday.
Kerber put Germany ahead with a hard-fought 7-6(6) 7-6(1) victory over Mertens in the round robin stage of the eight-nation mixed team event.
David Goffin helped Belgium get back into the contest with a clinical 6-3 6-3 win over world number four Zverev to leave the tie at 1-1. But Kerber and Zverev were too strong for their rivals in the deciding mixed doubles rubber, winning 4-2 4-3.
Kerber started her singles match slowly, conceded an early break but fought back to claim three games in a row. She saved a set point at 5-6 and then forced a tiebreak which she won with a crisp backhand winner.
The former world number one raced to a 3-1 lead in the second set as Mertens struggled to cut out the errors. Despite saving a match point, Mertens could not match her rival in the tiebreak as Kerber prevailed in two hours.
”It gives me a lot of confidence to start the year like this,“ said the world number 21. ”I think I need a few more matches to really get into my rhythm. However, for a start it was a good job.
“My goal is to play the three matches, hopefully four, and to find a good transition from all the practice to the match court ahead of the first grand slam of the year.”


(Reuters) - Mischa Zverev powered past Australian qualifier John-Patrick Smith 6-4 7-5 to enter the second round of the Brisbane International on Monday.
Eighth seed Zverev fired four aces in the match and converted five out of six break points to come through in an hour and 28 minutes. The German will meet the winner of Tuesday’s match between Argentine Federico Delbonis and American Michael Mmoh.
Earlier, local hope Matthew Ebden dumped out Frances Tiafoe with a 6-3 6-2 victory that set up an all-Australian second round clash with the big-serving Nick Kyrgios.
“Nick has obviously got a great serve,” Ebden said, looking ahead to Wednesday’s match.
”That’s one of his biggest weapons that carried him through well over the past few years, with the upsets and good results that he’s had. He’s obviously good around the court. He moves well for a big guy.
“Last year I played (Ivo) Karlovic, I played (John) Isner, these kind of guys. So I wouldn’t say Nick’s serve is maybe as big or as tall as those guys’, but he’s obviously very accurate and uses it well.”
Ryan Harrison downed Leonardo Mayer 6-4 3-6 6-2 while fellow American Jared Donaldson eased past Jordan Thompson 6-2 6-4. Horacio Zeballos needed 72 minutes to beat Ernesto Escobedo 6-3 6-4 and meets Alexandr Dolgopolov next.


(Reuters) - Johanna Konta made a shaky start to the new season before battling past U.S. Open finalist Madison Keys and into the second round of the Brisbane International on Monday.
Konta, who prevailed 4-6 6-4 6-3, needed two hours and eight minutes to quell the challenge of her American opponent as her usually reliable serve sputtered early on before eventually coming to her rescue at the Pat Rafter Arena.
“This was my first match in quite a while, so I‘m really happy to have had such a competitive match against such a great player,” Konta said.
“It was a really tough first round for both of us. Madison is an incredibly good player, so I feel very lucky that I got to play her so early on and really have a good match.”
World number 19 Keys missed eight opportunities to break Konta’s serve before she finally succeeded while up 5-4 to take the first set with a powerful forehand drive.
Konta appeared to calm her serve and nerve in the second set, fighting back with an early break to go up 3-2. The world number nine then held on to level the match at one set apiece.
The Briton battled her way to a 2-0 lead in the decider as Keys began to tire and finished the match with another break to set up a clash with Ajla Tomljanovic in the next round.
Belarusian qualifier Aliaksandra Sasnovich came from behind to upset sixth seed Kristina Mladenovic 1-6 6-3 7-5 while Elina Svitolina beat Spain’s Carla Suarez Navarro 6-2 6-4. Ukraine’s Lesia Tsurenko then stunned eighth seed Ashleigh Barty 6-3 6-2.
Double Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova withdrew from the event with a viral illness. The 27-year-old Czech was unable to take the court against Estonian Anett Kontaveit and was replaced in the draw by lucky loser Heather Watson.


BRISBANE (Reuters) - Twice Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova withdrew from the Brisbane International with a viral illness on Monday.
The 27-year-old Czech was unable to take the court in her first round match against Estonian Anett Kontaveit and was replaced in the draw by lucky loser Heather Watson.
“I‘m really disappointed to withdraw from the Brisbane International,” Kvitova was quoted as saying on the WTA website.
”Unfortunately I picked up a virus on the flight to Australia and I haven’t been able to get healthy in time to play here.
“It’s always a fantastic and competitive place to start the year so I‘m sorry not to be in the draw.”
The former world number two required four hours of surgery on her left hand in December 2016 after being attacked by a man wielding a knife who had gained access to her apartment by posing as a utility worker.
Kvitova returned to action, after months of rehabilitation, during the French Open in May and went on to win the Aegon Classic in June.
She last played at the Tianjin Open in October and was preparing to open her 2018 season in Brisbane.


(Reuters) - Jack Del Rio was close to tears as he revealed he had been fired as head coach by the Oakland Raiders on Sunday, shortly after the National Football League (NFL) team completed their final game of the season.
Del Rio’s departure came just three hours after the Indianapolis Colts said they also had sacked their head coach Chuck Pagano.
The 57-year-old Pagano, who had been in charge of Indianapolis for six seasons, was widely expected to be sacked after the Colts posted a 4-12 record that ended with a 22-13 win over the Houston Texans.
But Del Rio’s sacking after three seasons was less predictable, coming less than a year after he signed a four-year contract extension following a successful 2016, when the Raiders went 12-4 and finally made the playoffs after a 13-season drought.
But the team regressed in 2017, going 6-10.
An emotional Del Rio, 54, said it had been a dream to coach his “childhood team” but he acknowledged the reality of the business.
“It’s a results business, I understand,” he told a press conference, his voice cracking.
Del Rio went 25-24 in his three seasons with the Raiders.
Local media reported that former Raiders coach Jon Gruden was likely to replace Del Rio.
Gruden coached the Raiders from 1998-2001, before guiding the Tampa Bay Buccaneers to victory in the 2002 season Super Bowl. He most recently has been working as a television analyst.
The Colts, meanwhile, thanked Pagano for his body of work, while at the same time showing him the door.
“Chuck’s first season was one of the more inspirational stories in NFL history as he courageously battled and overcame leukemia,” Colts Owner & CEO Jim Irsay said in a statement.
Pagano, speaking before his firing had been announced, said: “I‘m just grateful I‘m on this side of the dirt,” referring to his recovery from leukemia.
Pagano guided the Colts to a 56-46 overall record (including the post-season) after joining the team in 2012.
He led them to three consecutive 11-5 seasons and playoff appearances from 2012-14, which included the 2014 AFC Championship game.
But the team failed to compile a winning record the past three seasons as they were hampered by multiple injuries to quarterback Andrew Luck.
Del Rio and Pagano are likely to be joined by several other sacked head coaches over the next couple of days.
Ben McAdoo of the New York Giants was the only head coach fired during the season.


(Reuters) - The Buffalo Bills ended the longest playoff drought in North American major team sports when they qualified for the National Football League post-season on Sunday.
The Bills were last in the playoffs when Bill Clinton was in his final year in the White House in 1999, but after 17 fruitless seasons they gave themselves a chance with a 22-16 win over the Miami Dolphins on the last day of the regular season.
The victory, however, was not enough for Buffalo, who also needed Cincinnati to beat Baltimore.
They nervously watched on television in the locker room in Miami as Bengals’ quarterback Andy Dalton connected on fourth down with a 49-yard touchdown pass to Tyler Boyd to earn a 31-27 win at the death and send Buffalo’s players into delirium.
“It’s been a long time coming,” Buffalo coach Sean McDermott told reporters.
Buffalo were not the only team to seal their playoffs spot on the final day of the season with the Atlanta Falcons and Tennessee Titans also winning their respective games to earn their way into the post-season.
Tennessee beat the Jaguars 15-10 in Nashville, while the Falcons, last year’s Super Bowl losers, also snuck in with a 22-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.
The top two seeds, who earn a first round bye, in the AFC had already been decided, though the New England Patriots had to win on Sunday, which they duly did over the New York Jets, to take the number one spot ahead of the Pittsburgh Steelers.
In the NFC, the Philadelphia Eagles had already locked up top seed, though after a 6-0 loss against Dallas on Sunday they enter the post-season as an underdog with first choice quarterback Carson Wentz out with a knee injury.
The Minnesota Vikings clinched the second NFC seed with victory over the Chicago Bears.
The playoffs will begin with four wildcard games between the teams ranked three to six next Saturday and Sunday.
(This story corrects venue in the seventh para.)


MELBOURNE (Reuters) - World number one Rafa Nadal, who is struggling to get any match practice before the Australian Open, will play an exhibition event at Melbourne Park in the week leading up to the season opening grand slam, organizers said on Monday.
The 31-year-old Spaniard has not played since he withdrew from the season-ending World Tour Finals in London in November with a knee injury.
He had already withdrawn from an exhibition tournament in Abu Dhabi, this week’s Brisbane International and another event in Sydney, citing a lack of time to properly prepare.
However, the 16-times grand slam winner will be part of the winner-takes all Tie Break Tens event at Melbourne Park on Jan. 10, five days before the Australian Open begins.
“Tie Break Tens is a great concept and we will see and play some exciting matches,” Nadal said in a statement.
“The field is fantastic and I expect some tough competition which will be great for the Aussie fans.”
The eight-man field includes Novak Djokovic, three-time grand slam winner Stan Wawrinka, Australia’s Nick Kyrgios, and former world number one Lleyton Hewitt.
Each match is comprised solely of super tie breaks to 10 points. The knockout tournament provides a winner take-all purse of $250,000.
“It really will be an intriguing contest,” Australian Open Tournament Director Craig Tiley said.
”These guys are all coming in at different stages of their preparation, but once their competitive instincts kick in, which will be almost instant in this format, there will be some absorbing contests.
“Remember, there is not much room for error. You lose the tie break and you are out.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Sunday’s National Football League games:
Patriots 26, Jets 6
The New England Patriots locked up the No. 1 seed in the AFC and home-field advantage in the playoffs with a 26-6 victory over the New York Jets on Sunday afternoon in arctic conditions at Gillette Stadium in Massachusetts.
The AFC East champion Patriots wrapped up their regular season at 13-3 to secure the conference’s top spot for a second consecutive season and the seventh time overall.
Dion Lewis totaled 133 yards (93 rushing, 40 receiving) and scored two touchdowns while Tom Brady completed 18-of-37 passes for 190 yards and two touchdowns for the Patriots.
The 40-year-old Brady came out of the game in favor of backup Brian Hoyer with 5:59 left in the fourth quarter.
New York (5-11) finished last in the AFC East for the second straight season and the third time in four years.
Vikings 23, Bears 10
Minnesota had a few flaws in their offense and special teams during a 23-10 win over the Chicago Bears, but the Vikings will have an extra week to work on them before opening the playoffs at home.
The Vikings (13-3) clinched a first-round bye with the win over Chicago and may have spelled the end for Bears head coach John Fox, who is widely expected to be dismissed after his team finished 5-11.
Minnesota’s last bye in the first round came in the 2010 playoffs.
Steelers 28, Browns 24
The Pittsburgh Steelers beat Cleveland 28-24 to make the Browns the second 0-16 team in NFL history. The 2008 Detroit Lions also went 0-16.
The playoff-bound Steelers started Landry Jones at quarterback in place of Ben Roethlisberger and Jones completed 23-of-27 passes for 239 yards and a touchdown in guiding the Steelers to their 13th win of the season.
Colts 22, Texans 13
Indianapolis running back Frank Gore rushed for 100 yards on 24 carries to help lead the Colts to a 22-13 victory over the Houston Texans at Lucas Oil Stadium.
The Colts limited the Texans to 209 total yards and got a safety. Each AFC South team finished with a 4-12 record.
Jacoby Brissett completed 15-of-24 passes for 114 yards and one touchdown for Indianapolis.
Lions 35, Packers 11
Matthew Stafford threw three touchdown passes and also caught a two-point conversion as the Detroit Lions closed out their season with a 35-11 romp over the depleted Green Bay Packers at Ford Field.
Kenny Golladay had a 54-yard touchdown catch for the Lions (9-7) in what may have been head coach Jim Caldwell’s final game with the franchise. There has been heavy speculation that Caldwell will not be retained for a fifth season.
Cowboys 6, Eagles 0
Quarterback Dak Prescott threw a 12-yard touchdown pass to Brice Butler early in the fourth quarter and the Dallas Cowboys held on for a 6-0 victory over the Philadelphia Eagles at frigid Lincoln Financial Field.
Despite having already been eliminated from playoff contention, the Cowboys still finished with a winning record at 9-7.
After last week’s ineffective performance in a 19-10 win over the Oakland Raiders, coach Doug Pederson opted to bring back starter Nick Foles against the Cowboys.
Foles didn’t perform well once again, going 4 of 11 for 39 yards, one interception and a miniscule 9.3 quarterback rating.
Giants 18, Redskins 10
The New York Giants scored two touchdowns in just over two minutes as they topped the Washington Redskins 18-10 at MetLife Stadium.
New York quarterback Eli Manning made his 216th appearance, which ties Hall-of-Fame defensive end Michael Strahan’s franchise record for the most games played in a Giants uniform.


(Reuters) - The wretched Cleveland Browns completed a season of complete futility when they lost again on Sunday, if only narrowly, which means coach Hue Jackson can go jump in the lake.
After Cleveland went 1-15 in the 2016 season, Jackson vowed that he would swim in icy Lake Erie if the team did not improve in 2017.
But improve it did not. Instead, the Browns pulled off the difficult feat of actually regressing, becoming only the second team in NFL history to go 0-16, joining the 2008 Detroit Lions.
“Let’s just be honest and put it out there, I‘m disappointed, I‘m pissed off, because I never saw this being this way in two years here, ever.” Jackson said recently.
“I made that statement (about swimming in the lake). I got to back it up.”
Whether he does so during the frigid winter, or waits for balmier weather and warmer water remains to be seen.
Early on in 2017 it seemed the Browns would win a game or two. Their first seven games included four narrow defeats by three points, but a promising autumn subsequently gave way to a bitter winter of discontent and a series of embarrassing defeats, culminating in a four-point loss against a second-string Pittsburgh team on Sunday.
“This is going to stay next to my name and the organization’s name for the rest of our lives,” Jackson said after Sunday’s game.
“There’s nothing we can do. We’ll turn the page on this and move forward.”
Not that the team’s long suffering fans will expect much difference in 2018, even though the Browns, with the first and fourth picks in the upcoming draft, should improve if they make wise choices, a big “if” based on recent history.
The Browns have missed the playoffs in 15 successive seasons, and have just one winning season in that stretch, going 67-173.
So why have the Browns remained so perennially bad when their poor record has given them so many high draft picks?
The reasons are somewhat debatable, but some bad draft choices (and non-choices) have not helped, none more disastrous than overlooking Ohio’s very own Ben Roethlisberger in the 2004 draft.
Big Ben instead went to the nearby Pittsburgh Steelers, and the rest is history (two Super Bowl championships).
On the other side of the ledger was the decision to take another quarterback, college football Heisman Trophy winner Johnny Manziel, in 2014, with a view to making the quarterback the face of the franchise, only to watch him self-destruct with a series of off-field problems that left him unemployed two years later.
The quarterback issue still has not been solved. In the past couple of years the Browns have passed on the likes of Deshuan Watson and Carson Wentz, who have blossomed with other teams, while DeShone Kizer labored in his first season.
Coach Jackson is not immune from blame either, but owner Jimmy Haslam should ultimately shoulder most of the responsibility since he bought the team from Randy Lerner in 2012.
Hindsight is always easy, but it cannot be denied that Haslam has made some questionable decisions, not least putting together a front office that realized too late that jettisoning so many veterans in favor of young players who were not NFL-ready was a dubious strategy.


BRISBANE (Reuters) - Fourth seed Caroline Garcia left the court in tears after a lower back injury forced the Frenchwoman to retire from her first round match against Alize Cornet at the Brisbane International on Sunday.
The 24-year-old, who struggled with a back injury last season, claimed the first set 6-3 before Cornet prevailed by the same score in the second to force the decider in the all-French encounter.
Garcia appeared to be suffering from some discomfort and took a medical timeout before the final set. She tried to hit a couple of serves before deciding she could not continue and retired in tears.
“I’ve always had some issues with my back,” Garcia told reporters.
“At the beginning of the match I felt a pain in my lower back and it was different than it is normally. It was getting worse and worse and in the end I couldn’t really move. There was no point to keep going.”
She was hopeful the injury would not affect her Australian Open prospects next month.
“I mean, it’s in two weeks, so it’s a long time... with the back it’s always complicated,” she added. “Especially mine, it’s really something I take care of, so it’s kind of surprising for it to show up like this. But we’ll do the best that we can.”
Cornet will met Mirjana Lucic-Baroni in the second round after the Croatian, who travels full-time with her daughter, overcame Germany’s Tatjana Maria 6-4 4-6 6-0.
“I‘m very sorry for Caroline. I know what it’s like to have back pain,” Cornet, who went down to Karolina Pliskova in last year’s final, said in a courtside interview.
”I hope she recovers for the next tournament in the Australian Open. I cannot say I‘m glad to be through this way, but the adventure continues for me.
“Last year, I had a super run to the final and I have very good memories. I hope to go as far as possible.”
Elsewhere, seventh seed Anastasija Sevastova beat local favorite Sam Stosur 6-1 6-3, while Ana Konjuh tamed Kiki Bertens 6-1 6-2.
In the men’s section, Ukraine’s Alexandr Dolgopolov caused a minor upset with a hard fought victory over sixth seed Diego Schwartzman of Argentina 6-4 7-6(3).


(The Sports Xchange) - Giannis Antetokounmpo caught the inbounds pass and immediately turned to size up his defender.
Antetokounmpo took a quick step to his right, crossing over his left leg toward the baseline as he drove around the Oklahoma City Thunder’s Josh Heustis and then elevated toward the basket.
The Milwaukee Bucks star needed every bit of lift he could get, muscling on Thunder star Russell Westbrook just enough to get the dunk to fall through for the game-winner with 1.3 seconds left to lift the Bucks to a 97-95 win Friday night at Chesapeake Energy Arena.
The play left the Thunder fuming.
Antetokounmpo appeared to step out of bounds with his left foot as he drove past Heustis, and Oklahoma City players pointed at the video board high above the court.
The Thunder got composed enough for Westbrook to heave a desperation 3-pointer toward the bucket, but it came up short.
Antetokounmpo said afterward he hadn’t seen the play and said he wasn’t aware at the time that he might’ve stepped out of bounds.
“Coach trusted me having the ball late and making that play and do what I do best and go to the rim and try to make it happen,” Antetokounmpo said.
Afterward, several Thunder players continued protesting to the officials, as the replay was once again shown in the building, this time zeroing in on Antetokounmpo’s foot on the baseline.
“I guess we’ll see something on the ticker that says the referees missed that one,” Oklahoma City’s Carmelo Anthony said.
“We can’t do nothing about that at this point, so we might as well forget about it and move on and get ready for ... who do we play Sunday? Dallas? Get ready for Dallas.”
Thunder coach Billy Donovan wasn’t among those protesting.
“I asked them if they could review it and they said they could not review it,” Donovan said. “That’s the only explanation I got.”
After the game, crew chief Derrick Stafford told a pool reporter the play was not reviewable.
“In any reviewable matter, there has to be a whistle called on the floor,” Stafford said. “There was no whistle blown for the play, so we couldn’t review it.”
Bucks coach Jason Kidd didn’t get too caught up in the call.
“I don’t understand the whole protest,” Kidd said. “I can only worry about the score and then them trying to put time on the clock.”
It was a strange end to a wild game.
The Bucks built up a 22-point lead in the first quarter and then slowly gave the lead up before Westbrook’s deep 3-pointer with 5.7 seconds left tied the game for the first time since it was scoreless.
Milwaukee called a timeout to advance the ball, setting up Antetokounmpo’s game-winner.
Antetokounmpo finished with 23 points and 12 rebounds to lead Milwaukee (19-15) to its second consecutive win. Khris Middleton added 20, John Henson 18 and Tony Snell 15.
“Just getting a win is big,” Antetokounmpo said. “I think I did a good job moving the ball offensively and playing hard defensively.”
A night before, Milwaukee came back from a 20-point deficit to beat Minnesota.
Westbrook scored a season-high 40 points, 14 in the final quarter. Anthony and Jerami Grant added 12 each for the Thunder (20-16), who had a six-game winning streak snapped.
“I‘m more concerned about the fact that we didn’t play well in the first quarter,” Donovan said.


(The Sports Xchange) - Houston Rockets point guard Chris Paul will return from a three-game injury absence to play in Friday’s game against the Washington Wizards.
Paul has been sidelined due to a groin injury. Rockets coach Mike D‘Antoni confirmed Paul would be in the lineup. Houston, which lost its last four games, is 15-1 when Paul is in the lineup and 10-7 when he sits out.
Also, the NBA confirmed two offensive foul calls against Rockets star James Harden in the final seconds of Thursday’s game with the Boston Celtics were correct. Harden bitterly complained after the 99-98 loss about the two calls made in the final 7.3 seconds.
Boston guard Marcus Smart was the defender in each instance and the NBA’s report stated “Harden dislodges Smart from his legal guarding position” on both occasions.
The Toronto Raptors suspended power forward Serge Ibaka one game for a violation of team rules.
The suspension, which was announced hours before Friday’s game against the Atlanta Hawks, resulted from an altercation that took place between Ibaka and a team staff member after a 124-107 loss at Oklahoma City on Wednesday.
Ibaka is averaging 13.8 points on 50.5 percent shooting and six rebounds in 30 games.
San Antonio Spurs forward Rudy Gay will miss at least two weeks due to a right heel injury, according to the team.
An MRI exam performed Friday detected inflammation in the bursa sac. Gay departed Thursday’s game against the New York Knicks due to soreness in the heel.


(The Sports Xchange) - The New York Jets extended the contracts of coach Todd Bowles and general manager Mike Maccagnan on Friday despite the team’s lackluster 5-10 record.
The deals of both men were extended through the 2020 campaign.
Bowles is 20-27 in his three seasons with the Jets. The team started 3-2 this season before collapsing with eight setbacks in the past 10 games. Maccagnan is also finishing up his third season with the team.
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers have decided to retain coach Dirk Koetter, according to multiple reports.
Koetter’s status had been tenuous due to this season’s disappointing performance. The Buccaneers are 4-11 entering Sunday’s finale against the New Orleans Saints. Tampa Bay went 9-7 in 2016 in Koetter’s first season at the helm.
But quarterback Jameis Winston regressed in 2017 and also missed time with a shoulder injury. The Buccaneers are currently mired in their second five-game losing streak of the season.
Tampa Bay’s previous two head coaches were fired after two seasons: Lovie Smith went 8-24 in 2014-15 and Greg Schiano went 11-21 in 2012-13.
With the strong backing of quarterback Aaron Rodgers, the Green Bay Packers and leading wide receiver Davante Adams have agreed to a $56 million contract over four years that will prevent Adams from becoming a free agent in March.
Terms weren’t disclosed by the club but multiple reports say the deal includes an $18 million signing bonus.
Adams, who won’t play in Sunday’s finale at Detroit because of a concussion sustained on Dec. 17 at Carolina, leads the Packers with 74 catches for 885 yards and 10 touchdowns in 14 games.
Green Bay also will be without starting wide receiver Jordy Nelson (shoulder), tight end Richard Rodgers (shoulder), linebacker Nick Perry (ankle/shoulder), guard Jahri Evans (knee), and running back Aaron Jones (knee) for the game against the Lions.
Tennessee Titans running back DeMarco Murray will miss Sunday’s game against the Jacksonville Jaguars, the team announced.
Murray sprained the lateral collateral ligament (LCL) in his right knee during last Sunday’s loss to the Los Angeles Rams. Murray didn’t practice all week and had a noticeable limp on Friday when walking toward the locker room.
Murray rushed for a career-low 659 yards this season and averaged just 3.6 yards per carry. Derrick Henry, who has rushed for a team-best 693 yards, will make his second start of the campaign.
Also, cornerback Logan Ryan (ankle) was listed as questionable for Sunday’s game, one the Titans must win as they battle for an AFC wild-card spot.
A joint review of how the Houston Texans handled concussion protocol in relation to quarterback Tom Savage determined the team will not face discipline for how it handled the situation.
The NFL and NFL Players Association found that letting Savage return to play in the Week 14 game against the San Francisco 49ers was “unacceptable.” A short time after returning to the contest, Savage was tested again and failed the concussion test.
Savage, who is now on injured reserve, suffered the concussion in the second quarter of the game and his hands began twitching. Replays of Savage’s hands weren’t seen by doctors until after he was cleared to return, according to the joint review.
The Pittsburgh Steelers still have a shot at the No. 1 seed in the AFC playoffs, but it’s a small enough chance that the team is likely to hold out at least two offensive stars Sunday.
Right tackle Marcus Gilbert said in a radio interview with the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review that quarterback Ben Roethlisberger and running back Le‘Veon Bell will sit against the winless Cleveland Browns.
Wide receiver Antonio Brown is also out with a calf injury as Pittsburgh (12-3) prepares to host the 0-15 Browns. For the Steelers to grab the top seed, they need a victory coupled with a New England loss at the 5-10 New York Jets.
The Philadelphia Eagles, who have clinched the No. 1 seed in the NFC, will play their starters against the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday.
Coach Doug Pederson didn’t say how long those starters would play as the Eagles (13-2) host the Cowboys (8-7) in a regular-season finale that has no playoff implications.


(Reuters) - Tiger Woods hopes to play a full 2018 schedule, he said on Friday, while at the same time declining to commit even to competing in February’s Genesis Open which is run by his foundation.
Writing a year-end blog on his website on the eve of his 42nd birthday, Woods was generally upbeat about the condition of his surgically-repaired back, but what he did not say was perhaps just as significant.
“One way or another, I will be at Riviera,” the 14-times major champion wrote of the annual PGA Tour event played on the famous course in southern California.
“It’s such an historic site and the course will always have special meaning for me. That’s where it all started back in 1992 when I played in my first PGA Tour event at age 16.”
Woods made his latest comeback in December at the Hero World Challenge in the Bahamas, eight months after undergoing a spinal fusion.
While his performance - he finished equal ninth of 18 players - was competent and he swung with apparent freedom, he acknowledged that he was in uncharted waters.
“I’m continuing to progress and trying to get strong enough to where I can handle a workload again,” he wrote.
”I would love to play a full schedule in 2018. What that entails, including back-to-back events, I don’t know. I just have to continue to work on my body and game and see where I pan out.
“I wish I knew where I was going to play and when I was going to play – it’s a lot easier to prep for that – but we really don’t know.”
Woods also acknowledged that his swing had changed.
”My swing is definitely shorter and I can’t turn as far. My back is fused and that’s as far as it’s going to go. But I was surprised at how explosive I was (at the World Challenge)...
“I’m more than a full-club longer than when I shut it down. I wasn’t hitting it very far and was struggling to hit it solid. That’s a bad combo.”
Woods, the second most successful golfer behind 18-times major winner Jack Nicklaus, has endured a challenging time since ending his 2014 season early in order to undergo what turned into multiple back surgeries.
He has played only occasionally since, with a couple of comebacks aborted by continuing pain.
In 2017 he decided to have two vertebrae in his lower back fused, which basically was an all-or-nothing last-ditch attempt to both ease his pain and allow him to resume golf.
The prognosis right now appears to be fairly good, but it has been far from smooth sailing this year for Woods, who in May was arrested asleep at the wheel of his car, with five drugs in his system.
He subsequently pleaded guilty to reckless driving.
“I appreciate competitive golf now more than I ever have,” he wrote.
”During that 10-month period I was away from the game, I had a hard time walking and often needed assistance getting out of bed.
”To go from that and be able to play golf - I hadn’t played without pain for a long time - it was nice...
“It’s been a year filled with ups and downs, but I am very optimistic about 2018 and looking forward to great things on and off the golf course.”


BORMIO, Italy (Reuters) - Frenchman Alexis Pinturault made up a gap of 1.65 seconds on the slalom leg to win the seventh World Cup combined race of his career at Bormio on Friday.
Italian Dominik Paris led after the downhill leg of the two-leg event and was on course to complete his win in the slalom leg until he lost control and straddled a gate near the end of his run.
Pinturault, who finished the downhill in 19th place, charged down the slalom in 50.77 seconds to claim the 21st World Cup win of his career.
Italian Peter Fill was second, 0.42 seconds behind, with Norway’s Kjetil Jansrud third.


LIENZ, Austria (Reuters) - Italian Federica Brignone upset favorites Mikaela Shiffrin and Viktoria Rebensburg to win the women’s giant slalom World Cup race at Lienz on Friday.
Rebensburg led after the first run with Shiffrin second while Brignone was fourth but the 27-year-old overhauled both on the second leg to win by 0.04 seconds from Rebensburg and claim the sixth World Cup win of her career.
Shiffrin, winner of Thursday’s slalom at the same venue, was third, a further 0.04 seconds behind Rebensburg.
Titleholder Shiffrin retained a commanding lead in the overall World Cup standings on 881 points, with Rebensburg second on 510 and Slovakia’s Petra Vlhova third on 385.


(Reuters) - Former world number one Novak Djokovic’s preparation for next month’s Australian Open suffered a blow after he pulled out of the season-opening exhibition event in Abu Dhabi on Friday due to pain in his right elbow.
The 12-time grand slam winner was scheduled to kickstart the new season against Roberto Bautista Agut but was advised by his medical team to skip the tournament just hours before the match.
Djokovic has not played since he was forced to retire against Tomas Berdych in the quarter-finals of Wimbledon in July due to an elbow injury.
“I am terribly disappointed that I am forced to withdraw from the Mubadala World Tennis Championship,” the Serb said in a statement.
”Unfortunately, in the past few days I started to feel pain in the elbow and after several tests, my medical team has advised me not to risk anything, to withdraw from the tournament and to immediately continue with the therapies.
“I am very sad because I was eager to return to playing official matches. Now I need to accept this situation, and to wait for the results of the therapies, in order to start playing tennis again and getting back to full rhythm.”
Organizers said that Britain’s Andy Murray had agreed to step in and play an exhibition match against Bautista Agut instead. Murray has been out of competitive action for six months due to an ongoing hip problem but was in Abu Dhabi as part of his rehabilitation.
The Australian Open, the first grand slam of 2018, begins on Jan. 15 at Melbourne Park.
(This story has been refiled to tweak the headline.)


SEOUL (Reuters) - What does it mean to represent your country at the Olympics? For Brock Radunske, the question has some nuance given the towering, blond-haired Canadian will be suiting-up for South Korea at the 2018 Winter Games.
The ice hockey forward is one of 16 foreign athletes granted South Korean citizenship ahead of February’s Pyeongchang Winter Olympics under changes to the country’s immigration laws that came into effect in 2011.
The changes, the Justice Ministry told Reuters, were aimed at boosting competitiveness in sectors such as sport, science and the economy. The key point was that dual citizenship was now an option for those deemed to have “outstanding ability” who could “contribute to the national interest”.
The first athlete without any Korean lineage ever to be naturalized, Radunske said it was an “honor” to be chosen for Team Korea but that being able to retain his Canadian passport had been a key factor in his decision.
“I grew up in Canada and I‘m proud to be a Canadian, and in a sense I‘m representing Canada too ... when I‘m playing for Team Korea,” the 34-year-old told Reuters.
“I‘m proud to have lived in both countries, so when I‘m on the ice I‘m going to do everything I can for Team Korea.”
Under the previous immigration system, Radunske would not only have had to surrender his Canadian passport but might have been expected to do a 21-month stint in the military.
Radunske has played professional ice hockey in Korea since 2008 when he became the tallest player ever to sign for Anyang Halla. The signing was hugely popular with female fans, who fawned over his imposing 6ft 5in (1.96m) frame and good looks.
Their nickname for him appears to have got lost in translation, however, with Radunske unlikely to encourage the use of “Canadian Big Beauty” when his playing days are over.
A third-round draft pick by the Edmonton Oilers in 2002, Radunske never made it to the NHL and representing Olympic champions Canada was always out of reach.
South Korea was therefore an attractive option but becoming a citizen of one of the world’s least ethnically diverse countries was no easy task.
Radunske had to pass a battery of tests, including of his Korean language skills and knowledge of local culture and history.
His fellow Ontario native Matt Dalton also came through the notoriously difficult process and said his decision to take on citizenship had caused some confusion ‘back home’.
“Being in Canada, some people didn’t even know where Korea was,” said the goaltender.
“And some people were asking, they thought I was representing North Korea, they just didn’t know the difference.”
At a tournament in Russia earlier this month, Dalton said he had conflicting emotions during the playing of the anthems when Korea took on Canada - as they will in their final group game in Pyeongchang.
“When ‘O Canada’ was going on, it was special but it was definitely a little awkward,” he told Yonhap News agency. “I didn’t sleep very well that day.”
South Korea will have seven naturalized players on its men’s ice hockey team and forward Park Woo-sang said his team mates had proved their worth on the ice as well as their love for South Korea off it.
“We don’t think of them as naturalized players, we think of them as Korean players,” he told Reuters.
“You could say they are foreigners that love Korea more than Koreans themselves.”
With around 100 registered professionals in the country, South Korea needed all the help it could get just to secure an Olympic spot in a sport where the hosts are not guaranteed a berth.
Previous Winter Games hosts have also relied heavily on foreign-born players to bolster their ice hockey squads.
In 1998, Japan’s ‘Seven Samurai’ featured six Canadians and a Swede, while Italy had nine Canadian and two U.S.-born players in their 2006 squad.
While more of a factor at Summer Olympics, changing national allegiance has also become prevalent at the Winter Games.
Data from the Pew Research Center showed 120 of the 3,000 competitors in Sochi in 2014 represented a country other than the one in which they were born.
The IOC imposes a three-year wait period for athletes who want to switch but it has allowed them to cut short the process if their original Olympic committee and governing sports federation agree.
South Korea also has naturalized athletes in women’s ice hockey, figure skating, luge, biathlon and skiing set to compete in Pyeongchang, but not everyone is on board with the policy.
Roger Park, a professor at Hanyang University’s Sports Industry Department, said the practice could run counter to Olympics ideals.
“In most cases, (they) maintain their original citizenship and go back to their original country after the Games,” he told Reuters. 
“If they gain citizenship here solely to compete and earn a lot of money, it’s also against the Olympic spirit.”
Park also questioned the value of the medals they won.
”If these foreign athletes do not have any attachment for or  relation to South Korea, what is the point of them competing for the national team?
“If they leave South Korea after winning medals, can we still consider those medals earned by South Korean athletes?”
Several Korean sports federations contacted by Reuters said naturalized athletes were offered greater financial support than locals, but declined to elaborate on figures.
An official from the Korea Biathlon Union, which has four Russian-born athletes on its roster, told Reuters such athletes were in high demand.
“Internationally there is a kind of competition going on to attract athletes who are willing to be naturalized,” said the official, who did not wish to be identified.
Ice hockey association media officer Kim Jung-min, however, said no financial package was needed to persuade the players to take on dual citizenship as they were already playing on professional contracts.
Kim also rejected the notion that Korea was trying to “buy” a medal.
“Clinching qualification was our goal because that is still such a big thing for us,” he told Reuters. “Getting a medal at the Olympics is simply beyond our reach.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights from National Basketball Association games on Thursday:
Celtics 99, Rockets 98
The Boston Celtics pulled off the biggest comeback of the NBA season on Thursday.
Down by 26 points early in the third quarter, Boston never led until Al Horford scored with 3.7 seconds left, escaping with a wild 99-98 victory that sent the Houston Rockets to their fourth straight loss.
Two straight offensive fouls in the backcourt resulting from James Harden knocking down Marcus Smart as Houston tried to inbound the ball with no timeouts left turned the game in the closing seconds.
Kyrie Irving paced the Celtics with 26 points. Harden led all scorers with 34 points but was only 7-of-27 from the floor.
Spurs 119, Knicks 107
LaMarcus Aldridge scored a game-high 25 points, and Pau Gasol added 17 points and 11 rebounds to rack up his fourth straight double-double as San Antonio rolled past New York.
All five starters scored in double figures for the Spurs, who won their straight game. Kyle Anderson, who started in place of Kawhi Leonard, scored 16 points, and Danny Green and Tony Parker hit for 15 and 14 points, respectively.
Michael Beasley led the Knicks with 23 points and 12 rebounds off the bench. Kristaps Porzingis, who fouled out with 2:30 left, and Courtney Lee had 18 points apiece.
Magic 102, Pistons 89
Point guard Elfrid Payton had 19 points, eight rebounds and eight assists in leading Orlando to a victory over Detroit that snapped a nine-game losing streak.
The Pistons lost for only the second time in the past seven games.
Evan Fournier scored 17 points for the Magic. Bismack Biyombo, in his second start of the season, had a season-high 12 points and grabbed 13 rebounds. Aaron Gordon added 14 points.
Tobias Harris led Detroit with 21 points. Andre Drummond had 17 points and a game-high 18 rebounds. Ish Smith, in his first start of the season, scored 18 points.
Trail Blazers 114, 76ers 110
CJ McCollum scored 34 points and Portland rallied from an 18-point, third-quarter deficit to beat Philadelphia at Moda Center.
Shabazz Napier added a season-high 23 points and Jusuf Nurkic collected 21 points and 12 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who snapped a six-game home skid.
Joel Embiid had 29 points and nine rebounds and Dario Saric chipped in 25 points and nine boards for the 76ers, who lost for the sixth time in seven outings.
Bucks 102, Timberwolves 96
Eric Bledsoe hit a three-pointer with 2:25 left to give Milwaukee its first lead of the night in a victory over Minnesota at the Bradley Center.
Bledsoe scored 26 points, and Giannis Antetokounmpo finished with 22 points and 10 rebounds for the Bucks, who overcame a 20-point deficit in the second half.
The Timberwolves were hitting at a 57.7 percent clip through three quarters but went 2 of 10 from beyond the arc and 4-of-19 overall in the fourth quarter.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Hockey League games on Thursday:
Golden Knights 3, Kings 2
David Perron scored the winning goal at 3:30 of overtime as the Vegas Golden Knights defeated the Los Angeles Kings 3-2 on Thursday for their sixth consecutive win.
Vegas extended its point streak to 11 games (10-0-1), the longest of any team in its inaugural season. It is the first time in NHL history that an expansion team has won six games in a row.
Jonathan Marchessault and Brendan Leipsic registered the other Vegas goals. Marc-Andre Fleury made 26 saves.
Los Angeles lost its second straight game and has dropped five of its past seven. Marian Gaborik and Drew Doughty registered goals, and Jonathan Quick made 36 saves.
Capitals 4, Bruins 3 (SO)
Alex Ovechkin scored the only goal of the shootout, and Washington earned its 12th consecutive victory over Boston.
Ovechkin, the Capitals’ third shooter, made a move to his right and fired high over Bruins goaltender Anton Khudobin, off the post and in. Boston had won five straight while Washington snapped a three-game slide after overcoming a 2-0 deficit.
David Backes’ second goal of the night gave the Bruins a 3-2 lead at 7:19 of the third period, but the Capitals tied it on Brett Connolly’s eighth goal of the season during a scramble in front with 8:38 remaining. Backes and Noel Acciari scored early in the first period.
Lightning 3, Canadiens 1
Red-hot Tampa Bay tied the game with 12 seconds left in the second period and jumped ahead 30 seconds into the third to defeat Montreal.
The Lightning’s top two scorers combined on a highlight-reel goal -- Nikita Kucherov outskated a Canadiens defender to a loose puck and flicked a no-look backward pass to a charging Steven Stamkos, who beat Carey Price for the tying goal.
Tampa Bay, which is 10-0-1 in its past 11, took the momentum from that score into the third, when Brayden Point poked in a loose puck in front of the net for his 15th goal and a 2-1 lead with 19:30 left.
Maple Leafs 7, Coyotes 4
Patrick Marleau scored twice as Toronto defeated Arizona.
Mitch Marner recorded a goal and two assists, William Nylander had a goal and an assist, and Auston Matthews, Zach Hyman and Connor Brown also scored for the Maple Leafs. Marleau finished with a three-point night.
Jordan Martinook had a goal and an assist, and Josh Archibald, Brendan Perlini and Christian Fischer also scored for the Coyotes, who fell to a league-worst 9-26-5. Arizona has lost two of three, giving up at least six goals in each of the defeats.
Panthers 3, Flyers 2
James Reimer came within eight minutes of his second consecutive shutout as Florida won its fourth straight game.
Reimer, who made 29 saves in his 10th straight start in place of injured starter Roberto Luongo, has allowed just seven goals in his past four appearances. In a span covering parts of three games, Reimer went 121:54 without allowing a goal.
Jared McCann, Derek MacKenzie and Jonathan Huberdeau scored for the Panthers, and Nick Bjugstad picked up two assists. Huberdeau has 13 goals, one shy of Vincent Trocheck for the team lead.
Sharks 3, Flames 2 (SO)
Joe Pavelski and Joonas Donskoi scored the only goals in a shootout, lifting San Jose past Calgary for the Sharks’ third consecutive win.
Pavelski and Timo Meier scored for the Sharks in regulation, and Martin Jones made 32 saves. Jones stopped all three shots he faced in the shootout.
Garnet Hathaway and Mikael Backlund scored for the Flames. Backup goaltender David Rittich made 30 saves.
Canucks 5, Blackhawks 2
Thomas Vanek scored two goals and added three assists, and Sam Gagner added two goals and an assist as Vancouver beat Chicago.
Gagner extended his point streak to four games after producing points in only five of the previous 15 contests. His linemate, Brock Boeser, had a goal and three assists to take the NHL rookie points lead (38) from Mathew Barzal of the New York Islanders.


TOKYO (Reuters) - Prosecutors summarily indicted Mongolian-born former sumo grand champion Harumafuji for assaulting a junior wrestler, a local prosecutors office in Tottori, western Japan, said on Thursday, in a move to seek the payment of fines rather than a trial.
Harumafuji retired last month for injuring fellow Mongolian wrestler Takanoiwa while drinking at a restaurant-bar with other wrestlers in Tottori, an incident that has threatened to taint the image of Japan’s national sport just as it was regaining popularity.
The summary indictment was filed against the former “yokozuna” (grand champion) for causing a chop wound by hitting Takanoiwa on the head with a karaoke machine remote control, an official at the local prosecutors office said.
A report by the Japan Sumo Association’s crisis management committee has found that Harumafuji, angered that Takanoiwa was checking his smart phone after being chastised for a bad attitude by yokozuna Hakuho, slapped and hit the younger wrestler with a remote control device.
Following the summary indictment, Harumafuji’s lawyer released a statement on his behalf.
“Because of this incident, my life as Harumafuji is now set to be sharply different from what I thought it would be. I have a feeling of chagrin, to be honest. But the responsibility is all mine,” he said in the statement.
The incident has highlighted sumo’s struggle to reform harsh conditions that can breed violence in its closed, hierarchical world, although some wrestlers say there have been improvements in the decade since a trainee was beaten to death.


(Reuters) - Former world number ones Andy Murray and Novak Djokovic are relishing their return to competition after serious injuries cut their last campaigns short, but the overriding aim for both players in the New Year is to stay fit and healthy.
Murray, who has struggled with a persistent hip injury since the Briton’s quarter-final exit at Wimbledon in July, pulled out of the U.S. Open and dropped to 16th in the world rankings.
The 30-year-old is scheduled to participate in the Brisbane International which starts on Dec. 31 as he gears up for the Australian Open, but a season blighted by injury has changed the double Wimbledon champion’s outlook.
“When I was fit and healthy last year (2016), you think about winning all the major events, getting to number one and winning every competition that you are in and that is what drives you,” Murray told Sky Sports.
”When you miss four or five months and there has been a bit of uncertainty about my hip (that changes). The goals change and I remember now how much I loved playing tennis -- it isn’t about winning every match I play in the future or winning more slams.
“I want to get back to playing tennis, I want to be fit and healthy and that is what is driving me just now... I was pretty unhealthy for most of this year and I am getting there but it is a slow process.”
Djokovic suffered a year-long dip in form before an elbow injury forced him to retire in the Wimbledon quarter-finals. The Serb has not played competitively since and underwent surgery.
“It’s been a real roller-coaster ride for me for a year and a half with this issue,” world number 12 Djokovic told Sport360 in an interview ahead of his return at the World Tennis Championship in Abu Dhabi.
”I’ve never had surgery in my life, I’ve never had any major injuries that kept me away from the tour for such a long time... I’ve learned a lesson because I really want to avoid getting to that stage of an injury ever in my career after this.
“I can’t wait to get back on the competition level but it was a great experience for me to have. And it was a somewhat necessary experience because I got maybe too comfortable with not having major injuries.”


MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Australian super-maxi LDV Comanche was awarded line honors for the Sydney to Hobart bluewater classic on Thursday after an international jury imposed a one-hour penalty on Wild Oats XI following a protest.
Wild Oats smashed the race record when it crossed the line at Constitution Dock in Hobart at 9.48 pm (1048 GMT) on Wednesday after taking one day, eight hours, 48 minutes and 50 seconds to complete the 630-nautical mile (1,170 km) race.
Comanche, which had led for much of the race before both boats stalled in fickle winds on the River Derwent, finished just over 26 minutes later.
Comanche, however, had protested about a near collision between the two super-maxis when Wild Oats completed a tack about 15 minutes after the start in Sydney harbor.
The jury upheld the protest on Thursday and imposed a one-hour penalty on the Mark Richards-skippered Wild Oats, which had won the race eight times before.
“Wild Oats XI had to keep clear, failed to keep clear while tacking, Oats did not do turn,” race organizers said.
“Decision is penalized by one hour. Comanche is line honors winner.”
It was the first time a yacht had been stripped of line honors since Rothmans in 1990.
“I didn’t expect to protest in order to win the race, it was all about our actions to avoid a collision and the fact that was necessary,” Comanche owner Jim Cooney said.
”I feel the rules are there to protect people’s lives and if we can’t rely on that then there is a difficulty in the sport.
“It’s a great relief that all the effort of the crew the support crew and my family was vindicated, so it was a relief that we did deserve the win.”
Richards had told reporters earlier on Thursday he would have taken a 720-degree turn penalty at the time of the incident if they thought they were in the wrong.
“Everyone is a genius in hindsight,” Richards said after the decision when asked if he regretted not taking the turn penalty at the time. “We had spoken about ... but that was the decision we made and you have to live with it.”
Five boats in total, also including Black Jack, InfoTrack and Beau Geste, beat the previous record of one day, 13 hours, 31 minutes and 20 seconds.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Hockey League games on Wednesday:
Golden Knights 4, Ducks 1
Shea Theodore, Cody Eakin, William Karlsson and David Perron registered goals, and Malcolm Subban made 27 saves as the Vegas Golden Knights defeated the Anaheim Ducks 4-1 on Wednesday night.
Vegas won its fifth consecutive game and remained undefeated in regulation play through 10 games (9-0-1), the longest point streak by a team in its inaugural NHL season.
Anaheim had a two-game winning streak snapped. Rickard Rakell registered the lone Ducks’ goal, and John Gibson made 24 saves.
Coyotes 3, Avalanche 1
Tobias Rieder, Alex Goligoski and Lawson Crouse scored goals, Antti Raanta made 25 saves, and Arizona defeated Colorado.
The Coyotes won for the second time in three games after going 1-8-2 in their previous 11 contests.
Mikko Rantanen had a goal and Semyon Varlamov stopped 24 shots for the Avalanche, who lost home games to the two worst teams in the league this month. The Buffalo Sabres beat Colorado 4-2 on Dec. 5.
Jets 4, Oilers 3
Winnipeg may have picked up a valuable two points with a victory over Edmonton, but it also lost offensive leader Mark Scheifele with a serious arm or shoulder injury.
After assisting on a goal, Scheifele was taken hard into the end boards. The Jets’ second-leading scorer fell awkwardly, immediately grabbed his right shoulder and writhed on the ice for about 30 seconds. He finally got up under his own power and went straight to the dressing room. He did not return.
Connor Hellebuyck stopped 21 shots in picking up his 13th win of the season for the Jets while Cam Talbot got in front of 35 shots directed his way at the other end of the ice for the Oilers.
Wild 4, Stars 2
Mikael Granlund’s second-period goal stood up as the game-winner, and Alex Stalock made 24 saves as Minnesota held on for a victory over Dallas.
Jared Spurgeon and Eric Staal added goals the Wild and Charlie Coyle had a pair of assists.
Tyler Seguin and Mattias Janmark scored for the Stars, but it wasn’t enough as Dallas saw its two-game winning streak snapped. Ben Bishop kept his team within striking distance with 27 saves.
Predators 2, Blues 1
Pekka Rinne stopped 29 shots and Nashville got goals from Craig Smith and Calle Jarnkrok in a win over St. Louis.
The win moved the Predators past the Blues into first place in the Central Division.
The Blues fell behind 2-0 after the first two periods before ruining Rinne’s bid for his fourth shutout of the season on a goal by Vladimir Sobotka, who deflected a shot by Kyle Brodziak with 6:23 to go in the third period.
Rangers 1, Capitals 0 (SO)
Mats Zuccarello and Mika Zibanejad scored during a shootout as New York defeated Washington.
Both backup goaltenders kept the game scoreless through regulation and overtime.
The Rangers’ Ondrej Pavelec turned aside 27 shots through the first 60 minutes, three more in overtime and two during the shootout. The Capitals Philipp Grubauer stopped 37 shots, including 18 in the third period and one in overtime. Grubauer was beaten on both of New York’s shootout attempts.
Bruins 5, Senators 1
Riley Nash scored his first two goals since Nov. 28 and added an assist, and Boston came out of the holiday break with a convincing victory over Ottawa.
Nash matched his career high for points in a single game. Tuukka Rask made 25 saves to go to 9-0-1 in his past 10 starts. David Backes and Danton Heinen both posted a goal and an assist, and Kevan Miller scored his first goal in 35 games, and defenseman Matt Grzelcyk had two assists for Boston.
Thomas Chabot scored the lone goal for the Senators on a slap shot.
Islanders 3, Sabres 2 (OT)
Mathew Barzal scored 1:08 into overtime as New York mounted a late comeback to beat Buffalo.
Josh Bailey forced overtime by scoring with 1:09 left in regulation for the Islanders, who won two straight for the first time this month. Jason Chimera scored in the second period and Jaroslav Halak made 35 saves.
Zemgus Girgensons and Kyle Okposo scored for the Sabres, who have lost 11 of 14 (3-7-4). Robin Lehner made 31 saves.
Devils 3, Red Wings 1
Rookie Nico Hischier scored two goals, and Cory Schneider made 31 saves as New Jersey extended its winning streak to a season-high five games with a victory over Detroit.
Hischier, the top pick in the 2017 draft, scored twice in the first period, the second two-goal game of his young career. The Red Wings answered back in the second period with a Justin Abdelkader goal but could not score the equalizer against an exceptionally sharp Schneider.
The Devils’ Sami Vatanen collected an empty-net goal to close out the scoring in the final minute.
Penguins 5, Blue Jackets 4 (SO)
Evgeni Malkin and Sidney Crosby scored in a shootout as Pittsburgh overcame three two-goal deficits to beat Columbus.
The Penguins’ Jake Guentzel scored with 1:40 left in the third period to force a 4-4 tie. Conor Sheary, Phil Kessel and Malkin also scored for the Penguins.
Sonny Milano and Boone Jenner staked the Blue Jackets to a 2-0 lead in the first before leading scorer Artemi Panarin scored once in the second and once in the third.
Hurricanes 3, Canadiens 1
Sebastian Aho, the third member of Carolina to put a shot on goal in a five-second sequence, scored the winning goal against Montreal.
Aho’s go-ahead power-play goal came with 10:45 remaining. He added an empty-netter with 1:24 to play, giving him 10 goals this season. Teuvo Teravainen opened the scoring for the Hurricanes, who won six of their last seven games.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Wednesday’s National Basketball Association games:
Pelicans 128, Nets 113
Anthony Davis scored a team-high 33 points, DeMarcus Cousins had 27 points and 14 rebounds, and Rajon Rondo dished out a career-high 25 assists to power the New Orleans Pelicans to a 128-113 victory over the Brooklyn Nets on Wednesday night at the Smoothie King Center.
Jrue Holiday added 23 points and E‘Twaun Moore had 20 for the Pelicans, who won their third consecutive game. The Nets lost for the seventh time in eight games. Brooklyn was led by Caris LeVert with 22 points.
Davis also had a season-high six blocks and tied a career high with four made 3-pointers.
Kings 109, Cavaliers 95
Vince Carter scored 24 points in Sacramento’s improbable win over Cleveland.
The 40-year-old guard, who missed the team’s previous three games -- two by coach’s decision and one as a result of rib pain -- received multiple standing ovations from the Golden 1 Center crowd. He finished 10 of 12 from the field and had big-time shots to answer almost every time Cleveland tried to cut into the lead.
Cleveland’s LeBron James had a triple-double of 16 points, 14 assists and 10 rebounds.
Bulls 92, Knicks 87
Kris Dunn scored 17 points and hit a pair of free throws with 7.8 seconds remaining, and Lauri Markkanen finished with 12 points as Chicago rallied to beat New York.
Robin Lopez finished with 11 points for Chicago, which has won nine of its last 11 games. Justin Holiday, who capped the victory with two free throws in the closing seconds, also finished with 11 points in the victory.
Kristaps Porzingis led New York with 23 points to go along with 17 by Courtney Lee and 11 by Jarrett Jack. The Knicks lost their third straight game.
Warriors 126, Jazz 101
Kevin Durant ignited a third-quarter runaway with consecutive dunks, propelling Golden State to a victory over Utah.
Durant had 21 points, six rebounds, four assists and three blocked shots without playing in the fourth quarter. The Warriors improved to 9-1 since Stephen Curry left the lineup with a sprained right ankle earlier this month.
Playing their second road game in two nights, the Jazz led by as many as seven points in the second quarter and trailed only 48-47 at halftime. Rodney Hood paced Utah with 26 points.
Timberwolves 128, Nuggets 125 (OT)
Jimmy Butler scored 12 of his game-high 39 points in overtime to help Minnesota top Denver.
Butler picked up the slack in overtime after Karl-Anthony Towns and Taj Gibson fouled out and point guard Jeff Teague exited with an injury.
The Timberwolves won their fifth game in a row while halting the Nuggets’ winning streak at three games. Denver got 28 points from Will Barton.
Thunder 124, Raptors 107
Paul George had 33 points, and Russell Westbrook added 30 points and 13 assists as Oklahoma City beat Toronto.
Carmelo Anthony and Steven Adams contributed 18 points apiece for the Thunder.
C.J. Miles led the Raptors with 20 points, and Jonas Valanciunas added 16 points. DeMar DeRozan had 15 points but made just four of 16 shots from the floor.
Hawks 113, Wizards 99
Dennis Schroder erupted for 16 of his 21 points in the second half, leading Atlanta to a win over Washington.
Ersan Ilyasova chipped in with 20 points while Marco Belinelli helped with 19 off the bench for Atlanta. The victory marked the first time this season that the Hawks won consecutive games.
Bradley Beal led the Wizards with 20 points, and Markieff Morris scored 18. John Wall had 10 points and 11 rebounds in the loss.
Mavericks 98, Pacers 94
Dirk Nowitzki scored 15 points to lead six players in double figures in Dallas’ victory over Indiana.
Harrison Barnes and Yogi Ferrell each had 13 points for Dallas. Wesley Matthews and Dwight Powell added 12 points apiece, and Devin Harris scored 10 for the Mavericks, who shot 51.3 percent from the field.
Indiana got 16 points apiece from Myles Turner, Lance Stephenson and Darren Collison. Stephenson added 15 rebounds.
Celtic 102, Hornets 91
Rookie Jayson Tatum scored 10 of his 18 points in the fourth quarter, and Al Horford and Kyrie Irving combined for 41 points as Boston closed out Charlotte.
Irving scored 21 points and handed out eight assists, and Horford added 20 points and 11 rebounds for the Celtics, who had lost three of their previous four games, including a Christmas Day defeat to the Washington Wizards.
Kemba Walker led the Hornets with 24 points.
Grizzlies 109, Lakers 99
A 32-point performance from guard Tyreke Evans helped Memphis capitalize on a sluggish Los Angeles offensive performance.
Jarell Martin had 20 points, Andrew Harrison recorded 15 points, Deyonta Davis scored 14 points, and Marc Gasol finished with 11 points, nine rebounds, five assists and three blocked shots for the Grizzlies.


(Reuters) - Minnesota Timberwolves point guard Jeff Teague suffered a left knee injury during the fourth quarter of his team’s NBA game against the Denver Nuggets on Wednesday and will undergo a scan to discover the extent of the damage.
With less than a minute remaining in regulation play, Nuggets guard Gary Harris fell backwards into Teague’s knee causing him to limp off the court.
Minnesota recovered to eke out a 128-125 overtime victory, then announced that Teague would undergo an MRI scan on  Thursday.
Teague entered the game averaging 13.4 points and 7.2 assists for the Timberwolves (22-13), who are fourth in the Western Conference.


(Reuters) - Roger Federer did not know what to expect when he touched down in Australia in 2017.
The then 17-times grand slam champion was 35 and coming back from a first surgery-enforced absence to the sport he dominated for more than a decade from his maiden Wimbledon title in 2003.
The six months off, however, appeared to be positively cathartic as he provided arguably the major talking point of the tennis circuit by reviving a career that pundits thought could be over with the injury.
He beat Rafa Nadal in an epic final to win his fifth Australian Open crown and then clinched his eighth on the grass courts of southwest London to finish the year with seven titles and the world number two ranking.
However, Federer, who begins his 2018 campaign at the combined teams Hopman Cup tournament in Perth, recognizes that while expectations this year might be a little higher, he was trying to ensure they did not get out of control.
“Expectations are higher but at the same time I try to remind myself just don’t think its normal and realistic to aim for the same things I did this year in 2017,” he told reporters after he arrived in Australia.
”I’ve got to try and keep it cool. Try my best and see what happens but the preparation has been good so far.
“We’ll see how things go.”
Federer previously used the Kooyong invitational tournament to warm up for the Australian Open but returned to the Hopman Cup last year to team up with compatriot Belinda Bencic, where the pair finished second in their group.
“Obviously looking ahead to Melbourne, I really hope that Hopman Cup’s going to give me everything I need here,” Federer said of starting the season in Perth, where he and his 20-year-old partner will face Japan, Russia and the U.S. in group play.
”It worked out perfectly this year, (winning) at the Australian Open.
“Of course, that’s a good omen.”


(Reuters) - New Orleans point guard Rajon Rondo dished out an NBA season-high 25 assists on Wednesday against the Brooklyn Nets to become the first player to reach the total in 21 years.
Rondo delivered the 25 assists in just 30 minutes to help the Pelicans top the Nets 128-113.
Jason Kidd was the last player to achieve 25 assists back in 1996. The record for most assists in a single NBA game is held by Scott Skiles, who tallied 30 in 1990.
Rondo, who joined the Pelicans on a one-year deal in the off-season, put his passing skills on full display in helping four New Orleans players score more than 20 points on Wednesday.
The 31-year-old Rondo had a previous career-best of 24 assists.


SYDNEY (Reuters) - World number one Rafa Nadal’s preparations for next month’s Australian Open have suffered a blow after he was a late withdrawal from the Brisbane International tournament on Thursday.
The 31-year-old Spaniard has not played since he withdrew from the season-ending World Tour Finals in London in November with a knee injury. He had already withdrawn from an exhibition tournament in Abu Dhabi that starts later on Thursday.
“I am sorry to announce I won’t be coming to Brisbane this year,” Nadal said on his Twitter account.
“My intention was to play but I am still not ready after last year’s long season and the late start of my preparation.”
The Brisbane tournament was due to start on Sunday.
Nadal, who also canceled a training block last week, returned from injury last year to reach the final of the Australian Open and win the titles at the French and U.S. Opens.
He played in Brisbane last year as part of his preparations for Melbourne Park and made the quarter-finals before losing to Canada’s Milos Raonic.
“I had a great time there (in 2017) and it was a great start to the month I spent in Australia,” Nadal added.
“I will be seeing my Aussie fans when I land on the 4th in Melbourne and start there my preparation for the Australian Open.”
The Australian Open runs from Jan. 15-28.


(The Sports Xchange) - New England Patriots coach Bill Belichick insisted on Wednesday that he solely is focused on facing his team’s most immediate opponent, as opposed to a potential one.
The latter line of thinking stemmed from the Patriots signing free-agent James Harrison on Tuesday, perhaps to gain a bit of inside knowledge on the outside linebacker’s former team, the Pittsburgh Steelers.
“We’re playing the Jets this week. I don’t even know what that has to do with it,” Belichick said in his Wednesday morning news conference. “Maybe I‘m missing something, I don’t know.”
Pittsburgh quarterback Ben Roethlisberger said he has no ill will toward Harrison after the linebacker signed with the Patriots.
Roethlisberger, in fact, said that he wished the best for Harrison.
“James has to do what James has to do. It’s not like he called and asked me if he should or not,” Roethlisberger said.
“James was out there -- he’s a free agent, he has to do what’s best for him and his family. I wish him the best. I’ve had a lot of good years with him.”
The Steelers released Harrison on Saturday to make room for right tackle Marcus Gilbert, who was returning from a four-game suspension.
One day after being called a cancer on the team, Eli Apple was suspended by the New York Giants for the regular-season finale against the Washington Redskins.
Interim general manager Kevin Abrams said the second-year cornerback was suspended for “a pattern of behavior that is conduct detrimental to the team.”
According to multiple reports, Apple was angry that he was assigned to practice with the scout team. He got into an argument with cornerbacks coach Tim Walton and had to be restrained, according to NorthJersey.com.
Denver Broncos running back Jamaal Charles told reporters that he would like the team to release him so he could have a chance to latch on with a playoff team.
Charles hasn’t played as much as he expected after signing a one-year deal in May. That contract has a $900,000 base salary that could have been worth up to $3.75 million overall if the 31-year-old had reached all of the bonuses available in the contract.
Detroit Lions offensive tackle Emmett Cleary pledged to donate his brain to the Concussion Legacy Foundation to aid with research into chronic traumatic encephalopathy.
Cleary, 27, joins Cincinnati Bengals offensive lineman Eric Winston as active NFL players in pledging this year to donate their brains.
The awareness of CTE over the past decade has plagued the NFL as more and more accounts are shared publicly. The death of Hall of Famer Junior Seau in 2012 at age 43 just 2 1/2 years after his playing career ended was particularly alarming. Boston University has released three studies on CTE since July. In one study, test results on 111 brains of deceased former NFL players revealed evidence of CTE in 110.
Rookie Patrick Mahomes will start for the Kansas City Chiefs in their regular-season finale against the Denver Broncos, coach Andy Reid announced.
Mahomes will get first-team reps while traditional starter Alex Smith will work with the scout team this week for the AFC West champion Chiefs, who are locked in as the conference’s fourth seed.
Kansas City traded up from the 27th pick in April’s draft to take Mahomes with the 10th overall selection.
Minnesota Vikings coach Mike Zimmer said he expects quarterback Sam Bradford to return to practice next week.
Bradford injured his left knee in the season opener in New Orleans but didn’t come out of the game.
He hasn’t played since Week 5 at Chicago, where he was replaced by Case Keenum in the first half after aggravating the injury. He was placed on injured reserve on Nov. 8 and is eligible to return to the roster next week after sitting out the required eight weeks.
Indianapolis Colts coach Chuck Pagano had an interesting choice of words as his team prepares for its season finale.
“The last rodeo is what I told them,” Pagano said of his speech to players as the Colts (3-12) prepare to play Sunday’s season finale against the visiting Houston Texans (4-11).
“A picture of a guy on a bucking bronco with the spurs on it. It’s our last ride together.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Monday’s National Basketball Association games:
Warriors 99, Cavaliers 92
Klay Thompson broke a late tie with a 3-pointer and Kevin Durant protected the lead with two key defensive plays on LeBron James, lifting the Golden State Warriors to a 99-92 victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers in the NBA’s marquee matchup on Christmas Day.
Neither team led by more than nine points in the tightly contested rematch of last spring’s NBA Finals, which the Warriors won in five games.
Durant, despite just 8-for-19 shooting, had 25 points to pace the Warriors, who have won six of their last seven at home against the Cavaliers.
Kevin Love had a game-high 31 points and 18 rebounds for the Cavaliers. James was held to 20 points on 7-for-18 shooting.
Sixers 105, Knicks 98
Joel Embiid had 25 points and 16 rebounds, and J.J. Redick added 24 points with four 3-pointers as Philadelphia snapped its season-high five-game losing streak.
Enes Kanter had 31 points -- including 14 in the third quarter -- and 22 rebounds, and Kristaps Porzingis added 22 points for the Knicks, who have lost three of four after winning four straight.
Ben Simmons, who struggled offensively and finished with eight points, had a crucial steal and breakaway dunk with 1 minute, 6 seconds left, jumping in front of a Porzingis pass and taking it the other way to give the 76ers an eight-point cushion. He then forced a turnover on New York’s next possession, and Philadelphia was able to juice the clock late.
Wizards 111, Celtics 103
Kelly Oubre Jr. and Bradley Beal both scored five straight points during a late 12-0 run, leading Washington past Boston.
It was the first time the Celtics played at home on Christmas, and they were fighting an uphill battle throughout the game. They wiped out an 11-point third-quarter deficit and led by five before the Wizards (19-15) caught fire.
Beal scored 25 points and grabbed eight rebounds and John Wall had 21 points, 14 assists and five boards. Kyrie Irving and Jayson Tatum led the Celtics with 20 points apiece.
Thunder 112, Rockets 107
Russell Westbrook scored 31 points to lift Oklahoma City over Houston.
Westbrook outdueled James Harden, who finished with 29 points.
Paul George added 24 and Carmelo Anthony 20 for the Thunder, who extended their season-long winning streak to five games.
Trevor Ariza and Eric Gordon scored 20 for the Rockets, who lost for the third consecutive time after winning 14 consecutive games.
Timberwolves 121, Lakers 104
Taj Gibson and Jimmy Butler scored 24 points apiece and Minnesota continued its best start in 14 years with a victory against Los Angeles.
Karl-Anthony Towns had 21 points and 10 rebounds and Jamal Crawford contributed 19 points off the bench for the Timberwolves, who shot a season-high 58.3 percent from the floor.


SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australian super-maxi Black Jack was first out of the Sydney Heads after two of the leading contenders for line honors almost collided at the beginning of the Sydney to Hobart Yacht race on Tuesday.
The Mark Bradford-helmed Black Jack, which took line honors in 2009 as Alfa Romeo, was one second ahead of LDV Comanche at the first mark and kept its slim lead as the boats rounded the Heads at the harbor entrance and headed south to Tasmania.
Wild Oats XI, seeking a ninth line honors title, was third, about a minute behind the leading pair, but managed to overhaul Comanche as they raced along the New South Wales coast.
The trio were within sight of each other about two hours after the race started at 1 p.m. (0300 GMT).
Thousands of boats provided the perfect viewing positions for spectators as the 73rd edition of the 630-nautical mile bluewater classic got underway.
Despite the light conditions there was high drama shortly after the start when the Mark Richards skippered Wild Oats tacked too closely to Jim Cooney’s Comanche and they almost collided.
Race organizers had predicted steady north-east winds of up to 20 knots as the 102 yachts headed down the New South Wales coast with the breezes freshening to 25 knots as they approached Bass Strait between the mainland and Tasmania.
InfoTrack, which is the fourth super-maxi in the fleet, set the race record of one day, 13 hours, 31 minutes and 20 seconds when they took line honours last year as Perpetual Loyal.
Skippered by 2012 Olympic Laser class champion and 2013 America’s Cup winner Tom Slingsby, InfoTrack was fifth overall about two hours after the start of the race.
Covering approximately 630 nautical miles (1,170 km) of the Tasman Sea and notoriously treacherous Bass Strait, the grueling annual race is Australia’s premier yachting event.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Football League games on Monday:
Eagles 19, Raiders 10
Jake Elliott kicked a 48-yard field goal with 22 seconds remaining and the Philadelphia Eagles clinched the No. 1 seed in the NFC and homefield advantage throughout the playoffs with a narrow 19-10 victory over the Oakland Raiders Monday night at Lincoln Financial Field.
Eagles quarterback Nick Foles looked shaky but improved to 2-0 since Carson Wentz went down with a torn ACL. Foles went 19 of 38 for 163 yards, one touchdown and one interception as the Eagles improved to 13-2 overall and 7-0 at home. The Eagles conclude the regular season on Sunday at home against the Dallas Cowboys.
The Eagles were also 13-2 in 2004 when they advanced to the Super Bowl.
Oakland quarterback Derek Carr finished 15 of 29 for 140 yards, one touchdown and two interceptions.
The Raiders, who had already been eliminated from playoff contention, fell to 6-9.
Steelers 34, Texans 6
Mike Hilton and Cameron Heyward recorded multisack games and the Pittsburgh Steelers remained in the running for home-field advantage throughout the AFC playoffs by breezing to a 34-6 victory over the Houston Texans.
Hilton and Heyward combined for five sacks of Houston quarterbacks T.J. Yates and Taylor Heinicke as the Steelers (12-3) limited the Texans (4-11) to 51 net passing yards.
Pittsburgh scored on its first two possessions and completed its road schedule with just one loss.
Pittsburgh clinched a bye in the postseason while extending its road winning streak to six.
Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger completed 20 of 29 passes for 225 yards and two touchdowns, including scoring strikes of five yards to Justin Hunter and 18 yards to JuJu Smith-Schuster.
Roethlisberger completed multiple passes to four receivers as the Steelers’ passing offense excelled in its first week without injured Pro Bowl receiver Antonio Brown.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Mutko, banned for life from the Olympics this month, is temporarily stepping down from his role as head of the country’s Football Union, he said on Monday.
Mutko is to appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) on Tuesday against the decision by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to ban him from the Games over allegations of state-sponsored doping.
“For the period of the proceedings I will suspend my work at the Russian Football Union for six months,” Mutko was quoted as saying by Russian news agencies.
The IOC said this month it was banning Russia from the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics after finding evidence of “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of doping procedures..
Russia is hosting next year’s soccer World Cup in 11 cities including Moscow, St Petersburg and Sochi.
Mutko also said he was considering resigning as head of the World Cup’s organizing committee (LOC).
“FIFA understands Mr Mutko’s decision which was also taken in the best interest of the World Cup next summer,” the global soccer body said in a statement. “FIFA thanks Mr. Mutko for this responsible step and for the work carried out so far for the World Cup.”
FIFA added that Mutko’s decision “will have no impact on the successful staging of the World Cup next summer, as FIFA, the Russian Government, RFU and the LOC continue their fruitful cooperation on the preparations for the World Cup according to plan.”
Mutko sat on FIFA’s decision-making Council, previously known as the executive committee, from 2009 until earlier this year when he was barred from standing for re-election.
Mutko’s position as a government minister was ruled by FIFA’s review committee to be incompatible with FIFA statutes demanding political neutrality from its members.


(Reuters) - Yuzuru Hanyu will defend his figure skating title at the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics after being named in the Japan team but will not compete until then, the Kyodo news agency reported on Monday.
The 23-year-old has been battling an ankle injury since November when he fell while attempting a quadruple Lutz jump in practice and had to withdraw from the grand prix final in Nagoya earlier this month.
He has not competed since and will miss the Four Continents championships next month in Taiwan in order to make sure he is ready for the Winter Olympics, Japan Skating Federation director Yoshiko Kobayashi told Kyodo.
“Considering the time we have until the Olympics, (the JFA) believes that he can make a comeback,” Kobayashi said. “I hope he drives the young athletes as Japan’s ace.”
Hanyu has resumed training but is not practising jumps just yet, Kobayashi added.
Hanyu took gold at the Sochi Games in 2014 and is also the reigning world champion, which earned him selection for Japan’s Olympic team despite missing the national championships, which doubled as a qualifier, at the weekend.
The Winter Olympics run from Feb. 9-25.


(Reuters) - Seattle safety Earl Thomas courted controversy on Sunday when he appeared to offer his services to the Cowboys following the Seahawks’ 21-12 victory in Dallas.
Thomas, who attempted to enter the Cowboys locker room following the game, approached their coach Jason Garrett in the tunnel and could be heard saying, “if y‘all have the chance, come get me”.    The Texas native, who also played collegiate football at the University of Texas, has one year left on a five-year contract in Seattle and was asked about his post-game comments that are likely to anger the passionate Seahawks fans.
“I’ve always been a Cowboys fan growing up. The biggest thing when I said ‘come get me,’ I didn’t literally mean, ‘come get me now,'” Thomas, who added he was happy in Seattle, told reporters.
”I‘m still in the prime of my career, I still want to be here. But when Seattle kicks me to the curb, please, the Cowboys, come get me. You know?
“This is the place where I want to be when they kick me to the curb. So that’s what I meant.”
The victory kept Seattle’s slim playoff hopes alive.


(Reuters) - The NFL’s concussion protocol has been altered with late-season changes following recent incidents that have triggered investigations.
The changes were implemented last weekend, Dr. Allen Sills, the NFL’s chief medical officer, told ESPN.
Most notably, a central unaffiliated neurotrauma consultant (UNC) was stationed at the command center that has been used primarily for game-replay review, Sills said.
“We are constantly looking at the protocol and how it’s applied and trying to get better,” Sills said. “The process happens through the season.”
An injury to Houston Texans quarterback Tom Savage on Dec. 10 as well as Seattle Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson’s concussion protocol misstep in Week 10 that resulted in a $100,000 fine for the franchise were two incidents that fueled the investigation.
Other notable changes in the new protocol were:
--Any sign of impact seizure will be considered the same as loss of consciousness, with the player being ruled out of the game.
--A referee who removes a player from the game for suspected head trauma must notify the medical staff.
--A player who exhibits gross motor instability or significant loss of balance must be taken to the locker room for evaluation if it is not diagnosed as an orthopedic injury.
--A player who is evaluated for a concussion must be re-evaluated within 24 hours, even if the player has an off day.
--A third UNC will be on site for the playoffs and the Super Bowl, in addition to the two already assigned to each regular-season game.


(Reuters) - Twenty-three time grand slam champion Serena Williams will play her first match since the birth of her daughter when she faces off against French Open winner Jelena Ostapenko at the Mubadala World Tennis Championship in Abu Dhabi next week.
The match with be the 36-year-old Williams’ first in almost a year as she prepares to try to defend her Australian Open crown in January, a title she captured earlier this year while pregnant.
“I am delighted to be returning to the court in Abu Dhabi for the first time since the birth of my daughter in September,” Williams said in a statement on the championship’s website.
Williams and Ostapenko will be the first women to participate in the 10th edition of the Mubadala World Tennis Championship, which has long marked the beginning of the men’s global tennis season.
“I am excited and honored to be making my comeback as part of the first women to participate in the event,” Williams added.
The championship runs from Dec. 31 to Jan. 2.


(Reuters) - Benefiting from an off-season trade, Indiana Pacers guard Victor Oladipo is finally becoming the franchise player he was projected to be.
The 2013 top-two draft choice had been seen as ancillary to the deal when Indiana sent cornerstone Paul George to the Oklahoma City Thunder.
But Oladipo appears focused on proving his worth in a new lead role with the Pacers.
“I was already motivated before (the trade to Indiana), Oladipo told Reuters following a recent win over Atlanta.
“Then (the trade) just happened. It might have added on a little bit but I was already motivated.”
The fifth-year player has translated his motivation into career-best production as he averages 25.3 points per game on 48.6 percent shooting, which includes 42.5 percent from three-point range.
He adds five rebounds and nearly two steals a night.
The Pacers, who were expected to fall off a cliff in the absence of George, are holding steady at 19-14, the fourth best record in the Eastern Conference.
Oladipo has been particularly devastating in the month of December, erupting for scoring binges that included a 47-point night in a win against Denver.
Always known for his slashing athleticism and versatile defense, Oladipo has found a shooting comfort back in Indiana where he starred as a college player.
“He’s come into the season with confidence, and I think to prove himself,” said Pacers coach Nate McMillan who has enjoyed extensive film sessions with his new guard.
“There was a lot of conversation out there that the Pacers didn’t get enough in (trading away George). I think he’s proven to the league that he has talent.”
The Orlando Magic were intrigued by Oladipo’s talent when they drafted him as the second overall pick in the 2013 draft.
After three solid but not spectacular seasons with the Magic, Oladipo was shipped to the Thunder.
Playing alongside ball-dominant superstar Russell Westbrook, Oladipo had the role of unsung sidekick.
So when the Pacers landed Oladipo, expectations were low.
He is proving otherwise and appears headed for his first ever All Star appearance.
“We felt like he had potential and he’s showing that he did,” McMillan said. “He’s playing with confidence. And when you have that kind of ability and play with that kind of confidence, good things are going to happen for you.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Hockey League games on Saturday:
Golden Knights 3, Capitals 0
Marc-Andre Fluery stopped 26 shots to pick up his first shutout of the season and lead the Vegas Golden Knights to a 3-0 victory over the Washington Capitals on Saturday night at T-Mobile Arena.
It was the eighth win in nine games (8-0-1) for the Golden Knights, who are tied with Tampa Bay for the most home wins in the NHL (15). Alex Tuch, Oscar Lindberg and William Karlsson all scored first-period goals for Vegas. That was all Fluery needed en route to the 45th career shutout of his career.
Braden Holtby had 25 saves for Washington, which fell out of first place in the Metropolitan Division.
Lightning 3, Wild 0
Dan Girardi, Tyler Johnson and Nikita Kucherov scored in the final 2:42 to lift Tampa Bay.
Andrei Vasilevskiy finished with 22 saves for his fourth shutout of the season and eighth of his career. The NHL-best Lightning enter the three-day break for Christmas with nine wins in the past 10 games and seven consecutive victories on home ice.
Alex Stalock, starting in net on consecutive nights, stopped 28 shots for the Wild.
Ducks 4, Penguins 0
John Gibson made 29 saves for his 13th career shutout, leading Anaheim to victory over his hometown team.
Ondrej Kase, Rickard Rakell, Andrew Cogliano and Cam Fowler staked the Ducks to a 4-0 lead through two periods. Anaheim finished a six-game road trip 3-2-1. Gibson improved to 2-3-0 versus the Penguins.
Pittsburgh’s Matt Murray gave up three goals on 13 shots before he was pulled for rookie Tristan Jarry, who stopped nine of 10 shots. The Penguins lost for the fifth time in seven games.
Islanders 5, Jets 2
Mathew Barzal collected his first NHL hat trick as New York cruised past Winnipeg.
Barzal (20 years, 211 days) scored twice in the first and once in the third to become the youngest Islanders player to record a hat trick since John Tavares did so at 20 years and 117 days on Jan. 15, 2011. Anders Lee and Anthony Beauvillier also scored for New York and Jaroslav Halak recorded 38 saves.
Tucker Poolman and Adam Lowry scored for the Jets, who ended a four-game road trip with three straight losses (0-2-1). Steve Mason made 24 saves.
Maple Leafs 3, Rangers 2
Auston Matthews had a goal and an assist in his first game back from a concussion as Toronto defeated New York.
William Nylander also had a goal and an assist for the Maple Leafs. Ron Hainsey had a goal and Morgan Rielly had two assists for Toronto. Frederik Andersen stopped 30 shots to halt the Maple Leafs’ four-game road losing streak.
Jimmy Vesey and J.T. Miller had the Rangers’ goals. Henrik Lundqvist made 34 saves for New York.
Bruins 3, Red Wings 1
Patrice Bergeron scored twice as Boston won its fourth straight game.
Brad Marchand scored one goal and set up Bergeron’s winner 6:11 into the third, and Tuukka Rask made 30 saves for the Bruins. Bergeron scored an empty-net goal in the closing seconds for his 10th goal of the season.
Frans Nielsen scored a short-handed goal and Jimmy Howard made 22 saves for the Red Wings, who haven’t won at TD Garden since April 14, 2014.
Oilers 4, Canadiens 1
Connor McDavid had a goal and an assist to lead Edmonton to its fourth straight victory.
Jujhar Khaira also had a goal and an assist for the Oilers. Ryan Strome and Milan Lucic also scored, Leon Draisaitl had three assists and Cam Talbot made 29 saves for Edmonton.
Antti Niemi made 31 saves for the Canadiens, who had their two-game winning streak snapped. Andrew Shaw scored for Montreal.
Devils 4, Blackhawks 1
Cory Schneider made 39 saves, and Brian Boyle sparked a three-goal first period as New Jersey won its fourth straight game.
Schneider made 21 saves in the second period and withstood a flurry in the opening half of the period. He made five stops on Patrick Kane before allowing the Blackhawks wing’s 300th career goal late in the second.
The Devils scored three times in the first 13:22 to chase Chicago goaltender Corey Crawford for the second time this season. Kyle Palmieri scored a power-play goal and Pavel Zacha capped the three-goal outburst.
Sharks 2, Kings 0
Goalie Martin Jones stopped 28 shots for his 100th career victory while defeating his former team as San Jose topped Los Angeles.
Jones improved to 8-3-2 in his career against the Kings, the team he broke in with and for which he played two seasons, including 2014 when the Kings won the Stanley Cup. Jones collected his third shutout of the season and 18th of his career.
Marcus Sorensen scored his third goal in four games and Joe Pavelski scored for the Sharks.
Stars 4, Predators 3 (SO)
Alexander Radulov and Tyler Seguin scored in the shootout, and Dallas killed off two penalties in overtime -- including 31 seconds of a 5-on-3 -- in defeating Nashville.
Ben Bishop made 29 saves to help the Stars win back-to-back games and extend a four-game point streak. Bishop stopped Filip Forsberg and Kevin Fiala in the shootout before Seguin scored in the third round.
Juuse Saaros made 25 saves for the Predators, who lost their third straight game.
Blues 3, Canucks 1
Kyle Brodziak’s goal with 1:30 left in the second period stood up as the winner as St. Louis defeated Vancouver.
Brodziak gave the Blues a 2-1 lead as he squeezed a shot from a sharp angle between Jacob Markstrom and the post -- while the crowd groaned. St. Louis ended a three game-losing streak, while the Canucks suffered their fourth straight loss.
Patrik Berglund and Alex Steen (empty-netter) also scored for the Blues. Rookie Brock Boeser tallied for Vancouver.
Blue Jackets 2, Flyers 1 (SO)
Pierre-Luc Dubois scored the only goal in the shootout on his first NHL attempt as Columbus defeated Philadelphia.
Seth Jones scored in the opening period for the Blue Jackets, and Ivan Provorov answered with the tying goal in the second period for the Flyers. Sergei Bobrovsky made 30 stops for Columbus and Brian Elliott finished with 35 saves for Philadelphia.
The Flyers’ Sean Couturier nearly won the game with 17 seconds remaining in the third period, but his shot bounced off the goal post.
Panthers 1, Senators 0
James Reimer made 38 saves to lead Florida over Ottawa.
The shutout was the 18th of Reimer’s career and fourth against Ottawa. The victory gave the Panthers a three-game winning streak for the first time this season. Jonathan Huberdeau scored for Florida.
Mike Condon, playing in place of No. 1 goaltender Craig Anderson (illness), made 37 saves for the Senators.
Hurricanes 4, Sabres 2
Defenseman Justin Faulk scored twice to snap a two-month scoring drought and Teuvo Teravainen matched a career high with three assists as Carolina defeated Buffalo.
The Hurricanes won for the fifth time in its last six games. Cam Ward also improved to 7-0-1 in his last nine appearances in net for Carolina. Jordan Staal and Sebastian Aho also scored for the Hurricanes.
The Sabres got second-period goals from Nathan Beaulieu -- his first of the season -- and Zemgus Girgensons.
Avalanche 6, Coyotes 2
Matt Nieto had a goal and an assist, and Colorado scored four goals in less than four minutes following a series of nasty mid-ice fights in its victory over Arizona.
Carl Soderberg began the flurry and J.T. Compher and Nail Yakupov followed by scoring on the same power play resulting from Coyotes center Zac Rinaldo’s match penalty as the Avalanche needed only 3:46 to turn a scoreless game into a 4-0 lead.


(Reuters) - Japan’s Kei Nishikori has withdrawn from the season-opening Brisbane International tournament as he continues to recover from a wrist injury, the event’s organizers have said.
The 27-year-old was ranked ninth in the world before sustaining the season-ending injury ahead of the Cincinnati Masters in August and has been out of action for more than four months, dropping to 22nd in the rankings.
Last month, Nishikori said he had chosen rehabilitation over surgery to repair the damage and was targeting a return in Brisbane, where he finished runner-up earlier this year, to warm up for the Australian Open.
“I am so disappointed to miss Brisbane this year. For years it’s been my first tournament of the season and I always feel so at home there...,” Nishikori was quoted as saying on the tournament’s official Twitter account.
Nishikori was among several top players who were forced to end last season early due to injury, including Andy Murray, Novak Djokovic and Switzerland’s Stan Wawrinka.
U.S. Open champion Sloane Stephens has also been ruled out of the women’s tournament at the Queensland Tennis Centre due to a knee injury.
“Sloane Stephens needs an extra week’s rehab on her knee, meaning she will now not play the Brisbane International. We look forward to seeing you next year instead, Sloane!,” the organizers said on Twitter.
The Brisbane International will be held from Dec. 31-Jan. 7.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Friday’s National Basketball Association games:
Clippers 128, Rockets 118
Austin Rivers caught fire in the second half and, with some help from Lou Williams, shot the short-handed Los Angeles Clippers past the Houston Rockets 128-118 on Friday night at Toyota Center.
Rivers scored 30 of his team-high 36 points on 10-of-18 shooting in the second half, drilling 5 of 10 3-pointers down the stretch to keep the injury-riddled Rockets (25-6) at bay.
Williams, traded by Houston in the offseason as part of the blockbuster Chris Paul acquisition, scored 32 points. Rivers and Williams combined to shoot 13 for 24 from behind the arc to offset another breathtaking performance from Rockets guard James Harden, who posted his second consecutive 51-point outing.
Harden finished 15 of 28 from the floor and 15 of 16 from the free-throw line while adding eight assists. Eric Gordon chipped in 28 points for Houston, which closed a season-long seven-game homestand with consecutive losses to the Los Angeles teams.
Warriors 113, Lakers 106
Golden State regained the top spot in the Western Conference, rallying from a fourth-quarter deficit to win its 11th straight game.
Kevin Durant had 33 points (12 on free throws) to lead the Warriors, who have beaten the Lakers the last 10 times they’ve met in Oakland. Rookie Jordan Bell (20 points and 10 rebounds) and Draymond Green (13 points and 11 rebounds), returning from a four-game absence, complemented Durant with double-doubles for the Warriors.
Rookies Kyle Kuzma (27 points and 14 rebounds) and Lonzo Ball (24 points) paced the Lakers, who had taken the Warriors to overtime in their two previous meetings this season. Julius Randle added 21 points for the Lakers (11-19), who were coming off a 122-116 win at Houston.
Thunder 120, Hawks 117
Russell Westbrook hit the winning 3-pointer with 1.4 seconds left to lift Oklahoma City past Atlanta.
The NBA’s reigning MVP, Westbrook finished with 30 points and 15 rebounds. Carmelo Anthony finished with 24 points and Paul George scored 17 for the Thunder.
Atlanta’s Marco Belinelli was a big reason for keeping the game close as he scored 27 points on 10-of-18 shooting. Ersan Llyasova added 22 points and Malcolm Delaney had 20.
Bucks 109, Hornets 104
Giannis Antetokounmpo and Khris Middleton combined for 14 points in the fourth quarter as Milwaukee closed the game with an 9-0 run to beat Charlotte Hornets.
Middleton led Milwaukee with 28 points and Antetokounmpo added 26. Eric Bledsoe struggled from distance, going 1 of 6, but hit 7 of 10 from the line to finish with 24 points while adding 10 assists, five rebounds and three blocked shots.
Kemba Walker connected on four 3-pointers and finished with a game-high 32 points for the Hornets, who went 12 of 26 from beyond the arc and shot 44 percent (39 of 88) overall.
Nets 119, Wizards 84
Forward Rondae Hollis-Jefferson had 21 points, 11 rebounds and six assists, and swingman Caris LeVert had 17 points and six rebounds as six players scored in double figures to power Brooklyn’s rout of Washington.
The Nets snapped a four-game losing streak with its second home win over Washington in 10 days. Spencer Dinwiddie had the hot hand out of the halftime break, scoring the Nets’ first 11 points of the second half on the way to 15 in the third quarter.
Forward Kelly Oubre had 13 points and guard John Wall added 10 points for the Wizards, who were held below 100 points for the fourth time in the last six games.
Pelicans 111, Magic 97
DeMarcus Cousins had 26 points, 11 rebounds and six assists, leading New Orleans to an easy victory over Orlando.
New Orleans guard Jrue Holiday scored 24 points for the Pelicans. All-Star forward Anthony Davis had 20 points and 11 rebounds.
It was the first time in the last 13 games the Pelicans held a team under 100 points. Jonathon Simmons led the Magic with 22 points and eight rebounds. Nikola Vucevic had 21 points and eight rebounds.
Pistons 104, Knicks 101
Tobias Harris led seven Detroit players in double figures with 24 points and the Pistons pulled out a victory over New York.
Andre Drummond had 18 points and 15 rebounds for the Pistons. Reggie Bullock supplied 14 points, Stanley Johnson and Antony Tolliver tossed in 12 apiece and Reggie Jackson and Ish Smith added 10 apiece.
Kristaps Porzingis led the Knicks with 29 points and nine rebounds. Enes Kanter contributed 22 points and 16 rebounds and Courtney Lee added 16 points for the Knicks.
Heat 113, Mavericks 101
Wayne Ellington scored 28 points to lead Miami past Dallas.
Ellington shot 10 of 16 from the field and hit a career-high eight 3-pointers, including four in the fourth quarter. Josh Richardson scored 24 points on 11-of-14 shooting and Tyler Johnson finished with 19 points for Miami.
The roster-depleted Heat lost another starter to injury after starting guard Dion Waiters limped off the court with an apparent left ankle injury late in the first quarter and didn’t return. Yogi Ferrell scored 23 points, and hit 9 of 13 3-pointers for Dallas. The Mavericks hit 17 3-pointers.
Nuggets 102, Trail Blazers 85
Nikola Jokic scored 27 points and Wilson Chandler added a season-high 21 points and 11 rebounds as Denver drilled Portland.
Gary Harris scored 17 points for the Nuggets, who snapped a two-game losing streak. Jokic, who made 12 of 21 field goal attempts, added eight rebounds and six assists.


(Sports Xchange) - Oakland Raiders running back Marshawn Lynch was fined $24,309 by the NFL for yelling at an official near the end of Sunday’s game against the Dallas Cowboys.
An irate Lynch screamed at the sideline official after Oakland quarterback Derek Carr reached for the pylon for the go-ahead touchdown and fumbled the ball forward through the end zone.
The play was correctly ruled a Dallas touchback and the Cowboys took possession with 31 seconds left in their 20-17 victory.
Earlier this season, Lynch was suspended for one game after making contact with an official. Lynch also drew a $12,000 fine in September for raising both middle fingers during a game.
The Jacksonville Jaguars will attempt to clinch the AFC South title without wide receiver Marqise Lee, who was ruled out of Sunday’s game against the San Francisco 49ers with an ankle injury.
The Jaguars ruled out Lee on Friday and listed fellow wide receiver Allen Hurns as questionable, also with an ankle injury.
Lee, who leads the team in catches (56) and receiving yards (702), sustained his ankle injury in Sunday’s 45-7 rout of the Houston Texans. The 26-year-old also has three touchdowns receptions for the second straight season.
New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady diverted questions about the Boston Globe report that his personal trainer Alex Guerrero had several privileges restricted.
When asked his reaction after coach Bill Belichick told him that Guerrero wouldn’t be allowed on the sideline, Brady offered the following:
“I don’t really agree with your question, so I don’t know what you’re talking about. How do you know what he said?” Brady said.


(Reuters) - A New York jury on Friday found two former South American soccer officials guilty of taking bribes in exchange for the award of valuable marketing and media rights to international matches, the first trial verdicts in a U.S. probe of world soccer’s governing body FIFA.
Juan Angel Napout of Paraguay, former head of South American governing body CONMEBOL, and former Brazilian soccer chief Jose Maria Marin were convicted of corruption charges brought by U.S. prosecutors in 2015.
Marin was found guilty of six counts, including racketeering conspiracy, wire fraud and money laundering conspiracy. The jury cleared him on another count of money laundering conspiracy.
Napout was found guilty on three counts, including  racketeering conspiracy and wire fraud conspiracy. He was cleared on two counts of money laundering conspiracy.
The jury did not reach a verdict in the case against Manuel Burga, former president of the Peruvian soccer federation, and the judge said the jury should return on Tuesday to deliberate.
The three men were the first to stand trial on charges brought by U.S. prosecutors in 2015 as part of investigations that shook up FIFA.
“We are obviously disappointed but will continue to seek  justice for our client,” Marin’s lawyer, Charles Stillman, said in an email.
Silvia Pinera-Vazquez, a lawyer for Napout, declined to comment except to express disappointment with the verdict. Burga’s lawyer declined to comment.
In a statement FIFA said it was a victim of the alleged wrongdoing and “will now take all necessary steps to seek restitution and recover all losses.”
Prosecutors have charged 42 people and entities in the case, at least 24 of whom have pleaded guilty. Several of those testified for prosecutors in the trial, telling of corruption that went far beyond the three defendants in the courtroom.
Alejandro Burzaco, the former head of Argentine sports marketing company Torneos y Competencias, told jurors that he paid bribes to all three defendants to secure rights to matches including the Copa America and Copa Libertadores. Burzaco had pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors.
Burzaco also said that Fox Sports, Mexico’s Grupo Televisa and Brazil’s Globo paid bribes for media rights to games. Fox and Globo have denied these allegations. Televisa declined to comment immediately after Burzaco’s testimony.
Burzaco also said that Qatar bribed officials of soccer’s world governing body FIFA to host the 2022 World Cup. Hassan al-Thawadi, secretary of Qatar’s Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy, which is organizing the 2022 World Cup, has denied the allegations.
“It is all hearsay and there is no evidence,” al-Thawadi said at a public event in November after Burzaco’s testimony, according to a representative of the committee. “We are confident in the integrity of our bid.”
Santiago Pena, a former financial manager at Argentine sports marketing firm Full Play, walked the jury through a spreadsheet detailing what he said were payments to eight CONMEBOL officials, including Napout and Burga.
The trial was marred by tragedy in its first week, when Argentine police said that Jorge Delhon, a former lawyer for the country’s Futbol Para Todos (Soccer for All), program had committed suicide after Burzaco named him in his testimony.
The next day, U.S. District Judge Pamela Chen put Burga under house arrest after prosecutors said he threatened Burzaco by making a slicing motion across his throat. She cast doubt on the cause of Delhon’s death, saying, “You can call it a suicide. The truth is none of us know that for sure.”
Burga’s lawyer, Bruce Udolf, denied that his client threatened Burzaco.


(Reuters) - Former world number one Tiger Woods said on Friday he has decided to end his working relationship with swing coach Chris Como, opting instead to fly solo in his latest comeback from injury.
Woods, who returned to competition three weeks ago after a near 10-month layoff during which he had spinal fusion surgery, began working with Como after a forgettable 2014 season during which injuries limited him to seven official PGA Tour events, missing the cut in two.
“Since my fusion surgery I have been working hard to relearn my own body and golf swing. I’ve done this by primarily relying on my feel and previous years of hard work with Chris,” the 41-year-old said in a statement posted on his official Twitter account.
“For now, I think it’s best for me to continue to do this on my own. I‘m grateful to Chris Como for his past work, and I have nothing but respect for him.”
Woods swung freely and with no sign of back pain at the Hero World Challenge, where earlier this month he began his latest comeback and finished tied for ninth in an 18-man exhibition that featured eight of the world’s top 10 golfers.
The 14-times major champion worked with swing coach Butch Harmon to begin his professional career, then switched to Hank Haney in 2004. Woods jumped to Sean Foley in 2010, whom he worked with for four years.
Como, in a statement provided to Golf Channel, said when he began working with Woods he was asked to help the golfer utilize his own instincts and feel while playing pain free and that he felt he accomplished the goal.
“Tiger is ready to have an incredible next run in his career. I‘m eager to watch what will be one of the most exciting sports comebacks of all time,” Como said in the statement.
“I will continue to be a close friend and resource to him and am extremely excited about Tiger’s future, the golf industry and for the fans of golf.”


ZURICH (Reuters) - The International Olympic Committee said on Friday it had banned 11 Russian athletes for life after they committed doping offences at the 2014 Sochi winter games.
Among them are speed skaters Ivan Skobrev, a two-time medalist at the Vancouver 2010 Games, and Artem Kuznetcov.
Along with lugers Tatyana Ivanova and Albert Demchenko, who both won silver medals in Sochi, cross-country skiers Nikita Kryukov, Alexander Bessmertnykh --both silver medallists-- and Natalia Matveeva, bobsledders Liudmila Udobkina and Maxim Belugin, and ice hockey players Tatiana Burina and Anna Shchukina, they were disqualified from the events they took part in.
They were also stripped of their medals and banned from future Olympic events, the IOC Disciplinary Commission said.
The decision is part of an IOC investigation into doping of Russian athletes at the 2014 winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia.
Earlier this month the IOC banned Russia from next year’s Pyeongchang Winter Olympics for what it called “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of the anti-doping system.
Investigations by the World Anti-Doping Agency and the IOC confirmed allegations of widespread doping among Russian athletes across many sports as well as tampering with Russian athletes’ samples during the Sochi 2014 winter Games.
The IOC, however, left the door open for Russian athletes with a clean history of non-doping to be invited to compete in Pyeongchang as neutrals.
“To date, the number of cases opened by the (IOC) disciplinary commission (for Sochi 2014) has reached 46 after additional findings from the re-analyses,” the IOC said. It has re-tested all of the samples from Russian athletes from those Games, banning dozens for life in recent months.
“All 46 of them have been handled, of which three have been filed. As some investigations are still ongoing (notably the forensic analysis of the bottles), it cannot be excluded that there might be new elements that would justify opening further new cases and holding more hearings,” it said.
The Pyeongchang Olympics run from Feb. 9-25 with Russian athletes competing under the Olympic flag as Olympic athletes from Russia (OAR).


ZURICH (Reuters) - World soccer body FIFA on Friday said it had awarded media rights for the 2018 World Cup to 2SPORT2 in Russia and Mediaset in Italy.
“In Russia, rights have been granted to the 2SPORT2 consortium (representing Channel One, RTR and Match TV), which will ensure comprehensive coverage of the competition in the host country,” FIFA said in a statement. “In Italy, Mediaset has secured live rights to all 64 matches to be aired on its free-to-air channels. The rights sales process in Italy was conducted by the MP & Silva agency on behalf of FIFA.”
The rights were platform-neutral, the global soccer body said, granting the media groups rights for TV, internet, mobile and radio coverage.


(Reuters) - U.S. broadcaster Dick Enberg, who charmed sports fans with his “Oh My!” declaration as he called some of the most memorable sporting events during the last five decades, died on Thursday, ESPN reported. He was 82.
Enberg was found dead at his home in San Diego. His wife Barbara told the San Diego Union-Tribune that her husband failed to catch a Thursday flight to Boston, where they were supposed to meet.
“He was dressed with his bags packed at the door,” she said. “We think it was a heart attack.”
Enberg worked for NBC, CBS and ESPN, calling some of the world’s biggest sporting events, including 10 Super Bowls, 28 Wimbledons and eight NCAA men’s basketball title games, according to ESPN.
Enberg was born and raised in Michigan and graduated from Central Michigan University, where he began his broadcasting career, ESPN reported. He moved to California and covered the UCLA Bruins basketball team, which won eight NCAA titles during his tenure.
“Sportscasting is a kid’s dream come true, which is one of the reasons that I keep doing it,” he said in his autobiography, according to the Los Angeles Times. “I can’t let my dream go. I‘m still love with what I do.”
In 1968, Enberg called what was dubbed the “The Game of the Century” between UCLA and the Houston Cougars, the first prime time NCAA regular-season game broadcast nationwide, according to ESPN. The Bruins’ 47-game winning streak came to an end that night.
“That was the platform from which college basketball’s popularity was sent into the stratosphere,” Enberg said about the game, ESPN reported. “That became a monumental event.”
Enberg was honored with awards from the National Baseball Hall of Fame, Pro Football Hall of Fame and the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame. He also won 13 Sports Emmy Awards and a Lifetime Achievement Emmy.
His last job was calling San Diego Padres games, which he retired from in 2016.
“We are immensely saddened by the sudden and unexpected passing of legendary broadcaster Dick Enberg,” the Padres said in a statement released late on Thursday to the San Diego Union-Tribune.
Despite leaving the broadcast booth, he continued to work on his podcast “Sound of Success,” which last aired on Thursday with an interview of Andy Friendly, a TV producer and executive, ESPN reported.
“I am talking to broadcast royalty today, and I am thrilled to be doing it,” Friendly said, according to ESPN.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Hockey League games on Thursday:
Kings 2, Avalanche 1
Dustin Brown scored 44 seconds into overtime in his 1,000th career NHL game, all with the Los Angeles Kings, who defeated the Colorado Avalanche 2-1 on Thursday night.
Brown converted a wrist shot for his 13th goal of the season. It came off a feed from Drew Doughty, with Anze Kopitar earning the secondary assist.
Alec Martinez also scored for Los Angeles. Jonathan Quick made 31 saves.
The Avalanche, who got their lone goal from captain Gabriel Landeskog, lost for the third time in five games (2-2-1). It was just the second time this season Colorado lost after leading after two periods (12-1-1). Semyon Varlamov made 25 saves.
Sharks 5, Canucks 4 (OT)
Kevin Labanc broke a 23-game goal-less streak by scoring the winner at 1:53 of overtime, giving San Jose a win over Vancouver.
Labanc collected his fourth goal of the season to cap a four-point night that included three assists. Joe Thornton added two goals and an assist for the Sharks to give him 1,416 points, good for 18th place on the NHL’s all-time list. Tomas Hertl and Timo Meier also added goals.
Brendan Gaunce, Jake Virtanen, Brock Boeser and Daniel Sedin scored for the Canucks.
Penguins 3, Blue Jackets 2 (SO)
Kris Letang scored the deciding goal in the shootout to give Pittsburgh a victory over Columbus.
Letang, the fourth Pittsburgh shooter, lifted the puck past Columbus goaltender Sergei Bobrovsky.
Goals from the Blue Jackets’ Pierre-Luc Dubois in the second and the Penguins’ Patric Hornqvist in the third forged a 1-1 tie. Evgeni Malkin and Columbus’ Artemi Panarin exchanged power-play goals later in the third to tie it again 2-2.
Ducks 5, Islanders 4 (OT)
Defenseman Hampus Lindholm scored a hat trick to help Anaheim beat New York in overtime.
Lindholm netted the winner with 57 seconds left in overtime. Rickard Rakell forced the extra session with 1:13 left in the third period as the Ducks snapped a three-game losing streak (0-2-1). Ondrej Kase also scored for Anaheim.
John Tavares scored twice for the Islanders, who fell to 3-6-2 in December with their fourth loss in their last five games. Matt Barzal and Andrew Ladd also scored.
Stars 4, Blackhawks 0
Tyler Seguin scored twice and Dallas coach Ken Hitchcock won his 800th career game in a victory over Chicago.
Hitchcock became the third coach in NHL history with 800 wins, joining Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville (868) and Scott Bowman (1,244).
Jamie Benn and Antoine Roussel also scored to help the Stars end a three-game losing streak. Chicago had a season-long five-game win streak come to an end.
Devils 4, Rangers 3 (SO)
Brian Boyle scored the tying goal late in the third period and the deciding goal in the fourth round of the shootout as New Jersey defeated New York.
Henrik Lundqvist of the Rangers made a season-high 45 saves, including 22 in the second period. Devils goalie Cory Schneider finished with 25 saves.
John Moore and Blake Coleman also scored for New Jersey and Jimmy Vesey, Nick Holden and Kevin Hayes lit the lamp for New York.
Bruins 2, Jets 1 (SO)
Charlie McAvoy celebrated his 20th birthday with the shootout winner, giving Boston its third consecutive victory, over Winnipeg.
The Bruins’ Torey Krug and the Jets’ Patrik Laine swapped third-period goals in less than a minute to set up the overtime.
Lightning 4, Senators 3 (SO)
Brayden Point scored the deciding goal in a shootout to lift Tampa Bay over Ottawa.
Tyler Johnson, Yanni Gourde and Vladislav Namestnikov scored in regulation for the Lightning, who improved to 8-1-0 in the past nine games. Victor Hedman and Nikita Kucherov each finished with two assists.
Tampa Bay’s Andrei Vasilevskiy made 18 saves and stopped both shootout attempts.
Bobby Ryan, Cody Ceci and Derick Brassard had the goals for the Senators. Ottawa’s Craig Anderson stopped 35 shots, including five in overtime.
Hurricanes 4, Predators 1
Carolina scored on four of its first six shots, chasing Nashville goaltender Pekka Rinne.
The Hurricanes won for the fourth time in five games and polished off their second straight season series sweep of the Predators.
Derek Ryan, Elias Lindholm, Noah Hanifin and Victor Rask all scored for Carolina before Nashville answered with a goal from Kevin Fiala.
Oilers 3, Blues 2
Edmonton came back from third-period deficits of 1-0 and 2-1 before beating St. Louis on Drake Caggiula’s goal with 49.8 seconds left.
Connor McDavid and Mike Cammalleri also scored for the Oilers.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Thursday’s National Basketball Association games:
Cavaliers 115, Bulls 112
LeBron James scored 34 points and the Cleveland Cavaliers outlasted the Chicago Bulls 115-112 on Thursday night.
Kevin Love added 27 points and seven rebounds for Cleveland, which doesn’t play again until their NBA Finals rematch with Golden State on Christmas. They’ve won 19 of 21 games and have scored at least 100 points in 26 straight.
Chicago, led by Lauri Markkanen’s 25 points, had a seven-game win streak halted.
There were 24 lead changes by the end of the third quarter and 26 in the game. James scored 11 in the fourth quarter, and his two free throws with 11.1 seconds left put the Cavaliers ahead by three.
Raptors 114, 76ers 109
DeMar DeRozan scored a career-high 45 points, including five in a pivotal 10-2 flurry late in the game, as Toronto rallied for a victory over short-handed Philadelphia.
DeRozan was 6 of 9 on 3-point attempts. His six triples were a career high.
Kyle Lowry added 23 points for the Raptors, who erased a 22-point third-quarter deficit to win its fifth straight and 11th in 12 games.
Ben Simmons had 20 points to lead the Sixers, who were without center Joel Embiid, the team’s leading scorer and rebounder, for the third straight game because of back tightness. Starting guard J.J. Redick also sat out with hamstring tightness.
Knicks 102, Celtics 93
Michael Beasley had 32 points and 12 rebounds, and Enes Kanter added 14 points and 10 rebounds as New York beat Boston.
Kyrie Irving scored 32 points and Jayson Tatum had 17 for the Celtics, who are 4-5 since a 22-4 start and have dropped consecutive games for the first time this season.
Kristaps Porzingis returned from a two-game absence with one of the worst outings of his career, an 0-of-11 shooting effort. The Knicks, who have won five of six, went on a 15-6 run in the fourth quarter to take control of what had been a back-and-forth game.
Jazz 100, Spurs 89
Rodney Hood scored 29 points and made several critical fourth-quarter baskets to lift Utah past San Antonio.
Derrick Favors added 14 points and nine rebounds, and Ricky Rubio chipped in 11 points, 11 rebounds and seven assists for the Jazz, who snapped a three-game losing streak and won for just the second time in the last nine games.
Bryn Forbes led the Spurs with 12 points. Four other players each scored 11 points as San Antonio had a three-game winning streak end.
Suns 97, Grizzlies 95
TJ Warren scored 27 points and Troy Daniels hit the go-ahead 3-pointer with 17 seconds left to give Phoenix a win over Memphis.
The Suns outscored the Grizzlies 18-14 in an ugly fourth quarter, but Phoenix got the basket that counted. Greg Monroe ran down a missed 3-pointer, turned and found Daniels, a former Memphis player, alone in front of the Grizzlies’ bench for Phoenix’s 10th 3-pointer of the night.
Daniels finished with 14 points for the Suns, who have won three of their past four games and won at home for the first time since Nov. 19.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Wednesday’s National Basketball Association games:
Lakers 122, Rockets 116
Rookie Kyle Kuzma scored 38 points, and the Los Angeles Lakers snapped the Houston Rockets’ 14-game winning streak with a 122-116 upset victory Wednesday night.
Houston had its streak end despite James Harden pouring in 51 points and adding nine assists. The Rockets also lost for the first time with guard Chris Paul in their lineup.
Paul departed early in the fourth quarter with a sore left leg and did not return after posting eight points, five assists and five rebounds over 25 minutes.
Los Angeles snapped its three-game skid by torching Houston’s defense, with Kuzma scoring 24 of his 38 points in the first half on 9-for-9 shooting. The Lakers, playing without starters Brook Lopez (ankle) and Kentavious Caldwell-Pope (personal reasons), had six double-digit scorers, with reserve forward Corey Brewer tallying a season-high 21 points.
Warriors 97, Grizzlies 84
Golden State limited Memphis to 10 field goals in the second half, allowing the defending NBA champs to gradually pull away for a hard-earned victory, their 10th win in a row.
Klay Thompson had a game-high 29 points and Kevin Durant added 22 for the Warriors, but the duo combined for just nine points in the second half, when Golden State’s defense dominated the game.
Memphis lost for the 16th time in 18 games. Marc Gasol overcame 5-for-15 shooting to score a team-high 21 points for the Grizzlies.
Heat 90, Celtics 89
Kelly Olynyk scored a career-high 32 points to lead undermanned Miami to a stunning upset of Boston.
Celtics star Kyrie Irving missed an open 20-foot jumper at the buzzer. He helped Boston recover from a late 11-point deficit and finished with 33 points.
Olynyk, who had 25 points in the second half, played the first four years of his NBA career with the Celtics before signing a four-year, $50 million contract with the Heat. Josh Richardson added 19 points for the Heat, who were playing without four starters.
Thunder 107, Jazz 79
Russell Westbrook finished three assists shy of his 11th triple-double of the season -- 24 points, 10 rebounds and seven assists -- and Oklahoma City defeated Utah to move over .500 for the first time since Halloween.
Carmelo Anthony and Paul George finished with 18 points each for the Thunder, whose eight wins through the first three weeks of December match their total through the first two months of the season.
Rodney Hood scored 17 points to lead the Jazz, who have lost seven of eight. Utah ended a six-game road trip with another loss -- its 13th in 16 games away from home this season.
Timberwolves 112, Denver 104
Jimmy Butler had 25 points, including nine during a key stretch of the fourth quarter, and the Minnesota rallied to beat Denver.
Karl-Anthony Towns also scored 25 and grabbed 10 rebounds, Jamal Crawford had 20 points and seven assists, and Jeff Teague contributed 16 points and eight assists for Minnesota, which overcame a 14-point deficit.
Denver’s Nikola Jokic returned to the starting lineup after coming off the bench the previous two games. He finished with 22 points but also committed 10 turnovers. Jamal Murray led Denver with 30 points, and Mason Plumlee had 13 points and 10 rebounds.
Spurs 93, Trail Blazers 91
LaMarcus Aldridge had 22 points and eight rebounds, and Pau Gasol collected 20 points, 17 rebounds and five assists as San Antonio seized a victory over Portland.
Aldridge sank 1 of 2 at the line to give the Spurs a 93-91 advantage with 15.4 seconds left before CJ McCollum missed a pair of shots in the closing seconds.
Damian Lillard scored 17 points for the Trail Blazers, who lost for the fifth straight time at home.
Mavericks 110, Pistons 93
Dennis Smith Jr. scored 15 points in his return to spark Dallas to a win over Detroit.
Smith, who added five assists and five rebounds in 21 minutes, missed the previous six games with a hip strain, and the Mavericks had lost three straight. Mavs forward Harrison Barnes led all scorers with 25 points.
Anthony Tolliver paced Detroit, which had won three straight, with 18 points.
Pacers 105, Hawks 95
Bojan Bogdanovic, who made the errant pass that cost Indiana a victory against NBA East-leading Boston on Monday, scored 19 points in the win over Atlanta.
The Pacers were led Victor Oladipo with 23 points, including three 3-pointers. Oladipo scored 13 points in the second half. Myles Turner added 20 points.
The Hawks were led by rookie John Collins with 18 points and nine rebounds. Marco Belinelli and Kent Bazemore each scored 13.
Clippers 108, Suns 95
Austin Rivers scored 21 points, while Lou Williams had 18 off the bench as Los Angeles ran away with a victory over Phoenix.
The Clippers held Phoenix to 31.9 percent shooting in the first half and 36.1 percent for the game. Los Angeles’ DeAndre Jordan hauled down 20 rebounds and added 12 points.
TJ Warren finished with 22 points and 10 rebounds, while Josh Jackson had 17 for the Suns, who saw their two-game win streak end. They have yet to win three consecutive games this season.
Bulls 112, Magic 94
Denzel Valentine scored 16 points and grabbed 10 rebounds, Kris Dunn and Nikola Mirotic each scored 15 points, and Chicago never trailed in defeating Orlando for its seventh straight win.
The Bulls’ Bobby Portis finished with 14 points, Jerian Grant had 13, and Robin Lopez scored 10. Mirotic also grabbed 10 rebounds.
Nikola Vucevic led the Magic with 18 points and 10 rebounds while Elfrid Payton and D.J. Augustin finished with 14 points. Orlando was playing without three opening-night starters.
Kings 104, Nets 99
Zach Randolph scored 21 points and became the 39th player in NBA history to get 10,000 career rebounds as Sacramento nearly blew a 21-point lead before holding on for a victory over Brooklyn.
It was the second milestone this month for Randolph, who shot 8 of 11 and finished with eight rebounds. On Dec. 2 at Milwaukee, he became the 11th active player with 18,000 points.
George Hill led the Kings with 22 points after missing Tuesday’s comeback win in Philadelphia with an illness. Spencer Dinwiddie led the Nets with 16 points while DeMarre Carroll added 15 as Brooklyn lost its fourth straight game.
Raptors 129, Hornets 111
DeMar DeRozan led the way with 28 points despite not playing in the fourth quarter, Serge Ibaka scored 24, and Toronto routed Charlotte.
OG Anunoby added 20 points, including 6-of-7 shooting from 3-point range for the Raptors.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Hockey League games on Wednesday:
Flames 2, Blues 1
Dougie Hamilton scored at 7:57 of the third period to lead the Calgary Flames to a 2-1 win over the St. Louis Blues at the Scotiabank Saddledome on Wednesday night.
Michael Frolik also scored for the Flames, who have won two games in a row, and Mike Smith made 21 saves.
Brayden Schenn scored for the Blues, while goalie Carter Hutton finished with 31 saves.
Flyers 4, Red Wings 3
Sean Couturier scored his career-high 16th goal early in the third period and it stood up as the game-winner in Philadelphia’s victory over Detroit.
Dale Weise, Wayne Simmonds and Robert Hagg also scored for the Flyers, who won for the seventh time in eight games following a 10-game losing streak.
Martin Frk, Mike Green and Gustav Nyquist scored for the Red Wings, who lost in regulation for the first time in five games (2-1-2). Jimmy Howard stopped 27 shots.
Blue Jackets 4, Maple Leafs 2
Seth Jones scored an unassisted goal and assisted on a rare Columbus power-play goal to help the team end a two-game losing streak with a victory over Toronto.
Jones’ goal came in the first period, and he also was credited with an assist on Pierre-Luc Dubois’ second-period goal. In the past four games, Jones has three goals to give him six for the season and 19 points.
Lukas Sedlak scored the Blue Jackets’ first goal in the opening period with an assist from Matt Calvert. Alexander Wennberg expanded the Columbus lead with a third-period goal, and Cam Atkinson contributed two assists.


(The Sports Xchange) - The San Francisco Giants acquired three-time All-Star third baseman Evan Longoria from the Tampa Bay Rays on Wednesday.
The Rays, in turn, receive top infielder prospect Christian Arroyo and minor league pitchers Matt Krook and Stephen Woods. Tampa Bay also must take on the last year of outfielder Denard Span’s contract, which is for $9 million.
Baltimore Orioles closer Zach Britton ruptured his Achilles tendon during a workout and is expected to be sidelined at least four months.
Britton’s injury will require surgery on Thursday in California to be performed by Dr. Ken Jung.
Major League Baseball commissioner Rob Manfred defended the new Miami Marlins ownership group, in particular Derek Jeter, during an interview on ESPN radio.
Manfred went on the Dan Le Batard show, which is based in Miami, and fielded questions about the Marlins trading away All-Stars Giancarlo Stanton, Marcell Ozuna and Dee Gordon, and the general direction of the team under Jeter’s ownership group.
The Seattle Mariners officially signed free-agent right-handed relief pitcher Juan Nicasio to a two-year contract, the team announced.
Financial terms were not disclosed by the team, but the Seattle Times reported the deal was for a total of $17 million.
Nicasio, 31, pitched in a career-high 76 games in 2017 with three different teams -- Pittsburgh (65), Philadelphia (two) and St. Louis (nine) -- finishing with a combined 5-5 record, six saves and a 2.61 ERA.
The Milwaukee Brewers and free-agent right-hander Jhoulys Chacin reached an agreement on a two-year contract, multiple outlets reported.
Chacin joins Yovani Gallardo as the second free-agent pitcher to sign with the Brewers over the past week. Gallardo is rejoining his former team after struggling in one season apiece with the Baltimore Orioles and Seattle Mariners, respectively.
The Los Angeles Dodgers started the process of restocking their bullpen by signing right-hander Tom Koehler to a one-year contract on Wednesday.


(Reuters) - Major League Soccer is heading for the Music City after Nashville was revealed as its latest expansion club on Wednesday.
The city known more for country music than soccer was named the league’s 24th franchise by MLS Commissioner Don Garber during a news conference at the Country Music Hall of Fame, but a decision has not yet been made on when the team will begin to play.
“Nashville is a rising city with a passionate soccer fan base, a dedicated ownership group and civic leaders that truly believe in this sport,” Garber said in a statement.
“Nashville continues its ascent as one of America’s most dynamic communities, with its incredible energy and creativity. For us, that makes it a perfect place for MLS expansion.”
In January, MLS said Nashville was among 12 cities vying to secure a team in a league that began with 10 clubs in 1996. MLS said at the time that two expansion teams would be announced by the end of 2017 and begin playing in 2020.
The Nashville team, which will play in a new, 27,500-seat soccer stadium at The Fairgrounds, is owned by a group that includes the Wilf brothers who own the National Football League’s Minnesota Vikings.
Despite not having a team to call their own until now, the city of Nashville has embraced soccer in impressive numbers in recent years.
The CONCACAF Gold Cup match between the U.S. and Panama in July drew a crowd of more than 47,000. Later that month, a state-record 56,232 fans attended a game between Premier League clubs Manchester City and Tottenham Hotspur.
Nashville already has two major league sports franchises -- the Tennessee Titans of the NFL and Nashville Predators of the National Hockey League.


(The Sports Xchange) - The New England Patriots have stripped Tom Brady’s trainer of several team privileges, adding to the speculation of a rift between the trainer and coach Bill Belichick, according to a report in The Boston Globe.
The trainer, Alex Guerrero, reportedly is a close friend of Brady as well as his business partner. Guerrero helped the decorated quarterback launch the TB12 Center, where Brady and several other Patriots players have trained and received treatment since it opened in 2013.
The Houston Texans added offensive tackle and cancer survivor David Quessenberry to their 53-man roster.
Quessenberry, who was a sixth-round pick out of San Jose in the 2013 draft, was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin T-lymphoblastic lymphoma three years ago. He has not played in a regular-season game in his NFL career.
Patriots tight end Rob Gronkowski was named the AFC Offensive Player of the Week for the second time in his career.
Gronkowski reeled in nine receptions for a career-high 168 yards in the Patriots’ 27-24 win over the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday. The 28-year-old has 64 catches for 1,017 yards and seven touchdowns in 12 games this season.
Former Carolina Panthers executive David Gettleman interviewed for the vacant New York Giants general manager position.


(Reuters) - Olympic gold medalist McKayla Maroney sued USA Gymnastics (USAG) on Wednesday alleging that the organization forced her to sign a non-disclosure agreement about sexual abuse she endured from former national team doctor Larry Nassar.
The lawsuit, filed by attorney John Manly in the Los Angeles Superior Court, a copy of which has been seen by Reuters, states that Maroney was forced to sign a confidentiality agreement in December 2016, because she needed money to pay for psychological treatment.
The suit alleges Maroney was sexually abused by Nassar from about 2009 to 2013 while she was a teenager. It seeks to invalidate the non-disclosure agreement and seeks unspecified damages.
USAG responded in a statement emailed to Reuters that the “concept of confidentiality was initiated by McKayla’s attorney, not USA Gymnastics.”
Maroney’s court filing states she was forced into the confidentiality agreement “after suffering for years from psychological trauma of her sexual abuse at the hands of Nassar, and in need of funds to pay for psychological treatment...”
This month, Nassar was sentenced by a U.S. District Court judge in Michigan to 60 years in prison on federal child pornography charges that grew out of a sex abuse investigation.
Nassar was the team physician for the Michigan State University gymnastics and women’s crew teams. He served as the USA Gymnastics physician through four Olympic Games.
Just months after Maroney signed the confidentiality statement, the lawsuit says, USAG “publicly discussed the exact same subject matter it sought to conceal...”
The Wall Street Journal reported on Wednesday that USAG paid Maroney a $1.25 million settlement.
As well as USAG and Nassar, the lawsuit also names the U.S. Olympic Committee and Michigan State University.
A lawyer representing Nassar did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
USGA responded with a statement which says, in part: “In 2016, McKayla’s attorney at the time, Gloria Allred, approached USA Gymnastics, requesting that the organization participate in a confidential mediation process.”
”USA Gymnastics cannot speak to the mediation process, which is confidential and privileged under California law. The process culminated in a settlement agreement that included a mutual non-disclosure clause and a mutual non-disparagement clause.
“The settlement in 2016 was in accordance with state law, despite what has been alleged.  At all times, McKayla was represented by Allred, a California-based attorney, who actively negotiated and approved the settlement agreement signed by McKayla.”
Allred said she had no comment on the statement by USAG.
The USOC said in a statement it had first learned of sexual abuse by gymnastics doctor in 2015, and that USAG had indicated it was in the process of contacting law enforcement about the matter.


FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (Reuters) - Tennis star Venus Williams will not face any criminal charges in relation to a June fatal traffic accident she was involved in near her Florida residence, the Sun-Sentinel newspaper reported on Wednesday, quoting police.
The driver of a car that struck Williams’ SUV in an intersection was also not charged, after Palm Beach Gardens police determined that neither violated the right-of-way, the newspaper reported. Palm Beach Gardens police and city clerk did not immediately respond to inquiries.
Police had initially said Williams was to blame for failing to yield the right-of-way.
But by July, Palm Beach Gardens police said video evidence had surfaced that showed that Williams entered the intersection lawfully, and that a car not involved in the collision forced Williams to stop in the intersection. The traffic light changed, and a sedan that struck Williams’ SUV had a green light.
Jerome Barson, 78, who was a passenger in a sedan that collided with the SUV Williams was driving, died 13 days after the June 9 accident. His wife, Linda Barson, 68, was driving the sedan.
The Barson family has filed a wrongful death suit against Williams. Calls to attorneys for both parties were not immediately returned on Wednesday evening.


LONDON (Reuters) - Bristol City, from English football’s second-tier, pulled off a sensation in the League Cup quarter-finals as they knocked out the holders Manchester United 2-1 amid late and wholly improbable drama at their Ashton Gate home on Wednesday.
On one of the great nights in the Championship club’s 123-year history, City despatched the Premier League giants amid ecstatic scenes with a winner three minutes into stoppage time from Korey Smith.
City’s reward for their famous win was to earn a semi-final tie with runaway Premier League leaders Manchester City while  Chelsea, who also defeated Bournemouth 2-1 in a dramatic finish at Stamford Bridge on Wednesday, were later drawn to play Arsenal.
Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho, who saw his chances of winning a fifth League Cup ended, mixed praise for the victorious underdogs with the observation that they were also “lucky”.
“They played brilliantly, fought like it was the game of their lives which it probably was,” he said on Sky Sports.
“A beautiful day for football. A team from the lower division won. A big day for them.”
He had picked a much-changed but strong side with big guns Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Paul Pogba back in the starting lineup but United found it a trying night and could not complain when local hero Joe Bryan put City ahead with a superb 51st-minute strike.
Ibrahimovic, who like Marcus Rashford had hit the post for United in the first half, thundered home a low freekick to restore parity seven minutes later.
Yet City, who are third in the Championship and hunting promotion to the top-flight, kept believing.
They made United the fourth Premier League victims of their fairytale Cup run when, latching on to a fine chipped pass from substitute Matty Taylor, Smith took the ball expertly on his chest and swiveled to fire home left-footed in the final seconds.
“It’s an overwhelming feeling of pride, to beat Manchester United is incredible,” said City’s manager Lee Johnson, whose father Gary was once also a successful manager of the Robins.
“They are a special group. It has been a long time since we had a result like that at Ashton Gate. My dad always says he’s the most successful Bristol City manager so I have maybe pushed him close tonight!”
Johnson had bought a special 450 pounds ($601) bottle of wine that he wanted to share with Mourinho after the match -- but instead champagne was the order of the night.
Chelsea looked set to be comfortable winners over struggling Premier League opposition when Willian finished off a fine team move after just 13 minutes but Bournemouth rallied after the break.
Dan Gosling smashed home a deserved equalizer in the final minute but Chelsea launched an attack of their own almost straight from the restart with substitute Alvaro Morata snatching the winner within 40 seconds of Bournemouth’s goal.
The late drama at both matches ensured a fascinating last-four draw, with Chelsea playing Arsenal at Stamford Bridge in the first match of the two-legged tie in the week commencing Jan.8.
Bristol City will travel to the Etihad Stadium for their first leg against Manchester City, who are still unbeaten in domestic matches this season, before seeking another famous win at Ashton Gate in the second leg during the week of Jan.22.
($1 = 0.7479 pounds)


LONDON (Reuters) - Nine times world rally champion Sebastien Loeb will make a limited comeback next season by racing three rounds of the world championship with Citroen, the French manufacturer said on Wednesday.
The 43-year-old Frenchman, who last raced in the world championship as a one-off in 2015 after retiring from full-time involvement in 2012, will compete in Mexico, Corsica and Catalunya.
“The feeling you get in rally is one of the most thrilling feelings I have ever experienced, and I was excited about driving one of these new WRCs in a race,” he said in a team statement.
“I don’t have any expectations, I just want to enjoy myself,” he added.
Northern Irishman Kris Meeke will contest the full 13 race season as Citroen’s lead driver while Ireland’s Craig Breen will enter 10 rounds.
Khalid Al Qassimi, from the United Arab Emirates, will appear in a third car at a handful of rallies due to other commitments including the Dakar Rally in January. Loeb will also be taking part in the Dakar with Peugeot.


ZURICH (Reuters) - Peru captain Paolo Guerrero will be able to play at the World Cup after FIFA’s appeal committee cut his ban for failing a doping test from one year to six months on Wednesday.
The reprieve for Peru’s all-time leading scorer is a huge boost for the South Americans, who have qualified for the World Cup for the first time in 36 years but are short on big-name players.
Guerrero, 33, who plays for Flamengo in Brazil, had been suspended by world governing body FIFA on Dec. 8 after testing positive for cocaine metabolite benzoylecgonine after Peru’s 0-0 draw away to Argentina in a World Cup qualifier in October.
The ban, backdated to start on Nov. 3, will now finish in May, just over one month before the start of the tournament in Russia.
“The FIFA Appeal Committee after taking into account all the circumstances of the case, in particular the degree of fault of the player, considered a six-month period of ineligibility to be a proportionate sanction,” said FIFA.
The former Bayern Munich and Hamburg SV forward, who has scored 42 goals for Flamengo since moving to Brazil in 2015, gives the Peru attack a much-needed physical presence and has a galvanizing effect on their less experienced players.
“We have reduced his ban to six months and now we are aiming to get him totally absolved,” Guerrero’s lawyer Pedro Fida told local television station Canal N.
“Guerrero’s case is not about the consumption of cocaine -- that has been completely discarded by FIFA. We will keep trying to prove his innocence.”
Guerrero has scored 32 goals for Peru, including a free kick against Colombia which gave them a 1-1 draw in their final South American group game and kept them in the competition.
Guerrero also helped Peru finish third in the 2011 and 2015 Copa Americas, was leading scorer in both tournaments and scored the winning goal when Brazilian club Corinthians beat Chelsea 1-0 in the Club World Cup final in 2012.
Peru, who reached the quarter-finals at the 1970 World Cup and the semi-final group stage in Argentina in 1978, face France, Denmark and Australia in their group.


BEIJING (Reuters) - China Mengniu Diary Co, the country’s No. 2 dairy company, said it has signed on as sponsor for the 2018 soccer World Cup, joining other Chinese firms Dalian Wanda, Hisense and Vivo.
Chinese firms have increasingly been backing high-profile world sports events, especially in soccer, even though the country’s own team failed to clinch a spot in the tournament scheduled to kick off next June.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Hockey League games on Tuesday:
Jets 6, Predators 4
The Winnipeg Jets scored twice in the last 1:26 to earn a 6-4 victory over the Nashville Predators on Tuesday, avenging a November loss.
Brandon Tanev’s wrister from a sharp angle on the left wing beat Pekka Rinne for the tiebreaking goal.
Blake Wheeler tacked on an empty-netter at 19:58 as the Jets moved within a point of Nashville and idle St. Louis for first place in the stacked Central Division.
Nikolaj Ehlers scored twice and Adam Lowry and Patrik Laine once each for the Jets. Calle Jarnkrok, Kevin Fiala, P.K. Subban and Yannick Weber scored for the Predators.
Panthers 3, Coyotes 2
Mike Matheson finished off a three-goal Florida flurry in less than six minutes, turning around a game that Arizona was dominating.
Nick Bjugstad scored with 10 seconds left in the second period to start the rally, Denis Malgin tied it early in the third period and James Reimer stopped 39 shots as the Panthers halted a three-game skid and won for only the third time in 10 games.
Christian Fischer scored late in the first period, just after a power play ended, and Derek Stepan added a goal late in the second to give the Coyotes a 2-0 lead.
Capitals 4, Stars 3 (OT)
Andre Burakovsky capped a three-point night with his second goal at 1:51 of overtime as Washington defeated Dallas.
Brett Connolly, who also had an assist, and Dmitry Orlov also scored for the Capitals.
Jamie Benn, Gemel Smith and Alexander Radulov tallied goals for the Stars.
Bruins 3, Sabres 0
Anton Khudobin made 36 saves to lead Boston over Buffalo.
It was Khudobin’s first shutout of the season and the sixth of his career.
Jake DeBrusk, Tim Schaller and David Backes scored for the Bruins.
Red Wings 6, Islanders 3
Trevor Daley scored the tiebreaking goal with 9:57 left in the third period as Detroit beat New York.
Mike Green, Luke Glendening, Martin Frk, Gustav Nyquist and Anthony Mantha also scored as the Red Wings won their second straight. Goalie Petr Mrazek, making his first start since Dec. 2, recorded 34 saves.
Anders Lee, Ryan Pulock and Josh Bailey scored for the Islanders, who lost hours after Newsday reported the franchise’s owners won a bid to build a new arena in Nassau County, where the club was based from its inception in 1972 until moving to Brooklyn in 2015. Goalie Thomas Greiss made 16 saves.
Rangers 4, Ducks 1
Paul Carey scored twice -- doubling his season goal total -- as New York defeated Anaheim at Madison Square Garden.
Henrik Lundqvist stopped 39 of 40 shots for the Rangers, who also got goals from Kevin Hayes and Michael Grabner. David Desharnais and Nick Holden each had two assists.
Ondrej Kase had the goal for the Ducks and John Gibson made 28 saves in defeat.
Wild 6, Senators 4
Minnesota scored five unanswered goals in a come-from-behind win over Ottawa.
Eric Staal led the Wild with two goals, while Nate Prosser, Jonas Brodin, Chris Stewart and Miko Koivu had the others.
Erik Karlsson scored twice for the Senators, and Jean-Gabriel Pageau and Derick Brassard each added a goal.
Alex Stalock made 28 saves for the Wild, while Craig Anderson stopped 33 shots in the Senators’ net.
Maple Leafs 8, Hurricanes 1
Mitch Marner and Tyler Bozak each scored and added three assists as Toronto defeated Carolina.
James van Riemsdyk contributed a goal and two assists for the Maple Leafs, who ended a three-game losing streak. Leo Komarov, Patrick Marleau, Kasperi Kapanen, William Nylander and Connor Carrick also scored for Toronto and goaltender Frederik Andersen stopped 32 shots. Zach Hyman had two assists.
Jeff Skinner scored for the Hurricanes, who had their three-game winning streak stopped. Scott Darling made 25 saves for the Hurricanes.
Golden Knights 4, Lightning 3
Shea Theodore’s power-play goal with 2.3 seconds remaining lifted Vegas over Tampa Bay.
It was just the second goal of the season for Theodore, who also had three assists. James Neal, Jonathan Marchessault and Erik Haula also scored goals and David Perron added three assists for the Golden Knights, who won for the seventh time in eight games and moved into a first-place tie in the Pacific Division with the Los Angeles Kings. Marc-Andre Fleury stopped 35 shots to pick up the win in net.
Victor Hedman, Steven Stamkos and Vladislav Namestnikov scored goals and NHL leading scorer Nikita Kucherov added two assists for the Lightning, who had a seven-game winning streak snapped. Goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy had 32 saves.
Canadiens 7, Canucks 5
Nicolas Deslauriers scored two goals and Jeff Petry had a goal and an assist as Montreal beat Vancouver.
Daniel Carr, Paul Byron, Alex Galchenyuk and Phillip Danault supplied the Canadiens’ other goals.


MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Nick Kyrgios has sacrificed his love of basketball for more time in the gym to get fit for the Australian Open but sees no immediate need for the extra discipline of a full-time coach.
The 22-year-old Australian worked with Frenchman Sebastian Grosjean on a part-time basis this year but has yet to find a candidate with his “best interests” at heart, he told reporters in Brisbane on Wednesday.
“I haven’t got a coach and I think I‘m just going to go about my thing the same way that I did this year,” he said.
”I’ve pretty much done it all alone the last three years to get to a career high of 13.
”To bring someone on, it’s tough to know whether they’re just doing it for the sake of getting a bit of cash or rather have best interests at heart.
”I‘m not looking for someone who has a big name or anything, it’s more trying to find someone who has my best interests and I can confide in.
“So far I haven’t really met anyone that meets those requirements. I don’t think I‘m ready for a full-time coach just yet either.”
The mercurial talent’s world ranking has slipped to 21 after a season blighted by problems with his hip but said he was doing everything in his power to be in prime shape for Melbourne Park in January.
That has extended to less time playing his beloved basketball, which he blamed for causing a knee injury in the leadup to the 2017 tournament where he crashed out in the second round.
“I was playing a lot (of basketball) through the off-season but I know it’s not great on my body,” said Kyrgios.
“Especially training for tennis and playing that, it’s not the smartest. But you know, I’ll live.”
Kyrgios will warm up for the year’s first grand slam at the Brisbane International before heading to Melbourne to play in Tie Break Tens with Novak Djokovic, an exhibition of 10-point tiebreak matches.
“I feel like I’ve taken care of my body a bit more than last year,” said Kyrgios.
”Last year I wasn’t doing anything, I was kind of playing too much basketball.
“I had so many niggles going into the Australian Open. I feel like I’ve done everything I can. I’ve still got a lot of time to kind of find my feet.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Tuesday’s National Basketball Association games:
Bucks 119, Cavaliers 116
Giannis Antetokounmpo’s three-point play with 5.9 seconds left capped a 27-point night and halted a furious comeback attempt as the Milwaukee Bucks snapped a three-game losing streak with a 119-116 victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers on Tuesday night at the Bradley Center.
LeBron James led the Cavaliers with 39 points but wasn’t on the floor in the fourth quarter as Cleveland used a 24-2 run to dig out of a deep deficit. Jeff Green and Dwyane Wade scored nine each in the final quarter, finishing with 13 and 14, respectively.
Eric Bledsoe had a big night for Milwaukee, scoring 26 points on 10-of-16 shooting, including two 3-pointers, as the Bucks made 11 of 29 from distance and shot 52.4 percent overall.
Wizards 116, Pelicans 106
Bradley Beal scored 22 of his 26 points during the second half of a game loaded with massive point swings as Washington outlasted New Orleans.
Mike Scott had 24 points on 11-of-15 shooting for the Wizards, who rebounded from Sunday’s 106-99 loss to Cleveland. John Wall finished with 18 points and 10 assists.
Anthony Davis scored 22 of his 37 points in the first half for the Pelicans, who have dropped three of four. DeMarcus Cousins had 26 points and 13 rebounds.
Kings 101, 76ers 95
Zach Randolph, taking advantage of the absence of Joel Embiid, scored 27 points as Sacramento rallied for a victory over Philadelphia.
Buddy Hield added 10 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter for the Kings, who erased a 16-point third-quarter deficit to end a two-game losing streak. Frank Mason Jr. chipped in with 16 points.
Robert Covington scored 17 points to lead the Sixers, who lost their third straight and their seventh in eight games. Jerryd Bayless added 15 points, and Ben Simmons had 13 points, 12 rebounds and nine assists.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Pittsburgh Steelers lost a showdown to the New England Patriots for AFC supremacy on Sunday night, but they were atop the pack when it came to filling out the Pro Bowl roster.
Led by offensive standouts Antonio Brown and Le‘Veon Bell, the respective NFL leaders in receiving and rushing, the Steelers had a league-high eight selections for the 2018 Pro Bowl, which were announced Tuesday.
Quarterback Ben Roethlisberger, injured linebacker Ryan Shazier, kicker Chris Boswell and offensive linemen Alejandro Villanueva, guard David DeCastro and center Maurkice Pouncey filled out the roster for Pittsburgh, which is tied with the Patriots for the AFC’s best record at 11-3.
The Philadelphia Eagles, who own the league’s best record at 12-2, shared top honors in the NFC with the New Orleans Saints, each getting six Pro Bowl selections.
Eagles quarterback Carson Wentz, who leads the NFL with 33 touchdown passes but is done for the season due to a torn ACL, was joined by tight end Zach Ertz, defensive lineman Fletcher Cox, strong safety Malcolm Jenkins and offensive linemen Lane Johnson and Brandon Brooks among Philadelphia’s contingent.
New Orleans quarterback Drew Brees earned his 11th Pro Bowl selection and was joined by running backs Mark Ingram and Alvin Kamara, the latter one of four rookies on the squad.
Quarterback Tom Brady was selected to his 13th Pro Bowl and was joined by star tight end Rob Gronkowski on New England’s four-man contingent.
The Los Angeles Rams featured the fourth-most selections with five, with defensive lineman Aaron Donald earning his fourth selection and running back Todd Gurley receiving his second honor.
Rams quarterback Jared Goff is a first alternate on the squad and a likely replacement for Wentz. Goff and Wentz were the top two picks in the 2016 NFL Draft.
Rounding out the rookies were Kansas City Chiefs running back Kareem Hunt, Saints cornerback Marshon Lattimore and Arizona Cardinals special teamer Budda Baker.
Other notable selections were Cardinals wideout Larry Fitzgerald, who matched Brees with his 11th Pro Bowl berth, and Los Angeles Chargers quarterback Philip Rivers and Baltimore Ravens Terrell Suggs, who each earned their seventh honor.
Three other players were selected to their seventh Pro Bowls -- Cardinals cornerback Patrick Peterson, Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver A.J. Green and Patriots special teams standout Matthew Slater.


(The Sports Xchange) - Carolina Panthers linebacker Thomas Davis had his two-game suspension reduced to one game after an appeal, the NFL announced Tuesday.
Appeals officer James Thrash, a former NFL wide receiver, heard Davis’ appeal.
Davis will not play Sunday in Carolina’s home game against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, but he can return to the active roster on Dec. 26. The Panthers conclude the regular season at Atlanta on Dec. 31.
Davis was suspended for his blindside hit Sunday that resulted in a concussion for Green Bay Packers wide receiver Davante Adams.
The 34-year-old Panther apologized to Adams over social media for the hit that followed an interception during the third quarter at Bank of America Stadium. Davis was penalized but remained in the game, which Carolina won 31-24.
Adams was left with a concussion and couldn’t talk with reporters following the contest because players in concussion protocol are barred from speaking to the media until they have been cleared.
That didn’t prevent Adams from speaking out on Twitter, however.
”I’ll never understand it,“ Adams wrote. ”Game is already dangerous enough and we got Pro Bowl players out here head hunting and saying they ‘didn’t mean to harm me.’
”Somebody please explain to me what I wasn’t trying to hurt him means when we nowhere near the play and u lead with ya head and ear hole a defenseless player....
”Look it’s football but no room for (expletive) like that. We supposed to be in this together n look out for one another not mess with a mans livelihood and hand out unnecessary concussions. We all got mouths to feed what if I did that to him and his kids can’t eat.
“Not the type to rant but when u go through this (expletive) twice in a year it takes a lil toll on u so excuse me.”
Adams’ words prompted an apology from Davis over social media.
“I understand your frustration and I do apologize for the hit!” Davis wrote. “In no way was I trying to hurt you. My first instinct was turn and make a block. In all sincerity I do apologize. I truly respect you as a player and I made a mistake!”


RIO DE JANEIRO (Reuters) - Former Brazil soccer striker and 1994 World Cup champion Romario said on Tuesday he plans to run for president of the scandal-plagued Brazilian Football Confederation (CBF) on an anti-corruption platform.
Romario, 51, now a senator who has led congressional investigations into corruption in Brazilian soccer, announced his intentions four days after CBF President Marco Polo del Nero was suspended for 90 days by soccer world body FIFA.
Del Nero is being investigated in Brazil for alleged unethical conduct. He and his two predecessors, Ricardo Teixeira and José Maria Marin, have been charged in the United States in the biggest corruption scandal in soccer’s history.
“No one has fought so vigorously against that gang than me, and so I am a legitimate candidate,” Romario said on Instagram. “I have the qualifications for the job. My credentials are my whole contribution to soccer, on and off the field.”
He blamed former FIFA President Joao Havelange, who died last year, for installing a “system” of graft in Brazilian soccer and beyond.
Romario called for the prosecution of Marin, Teixeira and del Nero at the end of a congressional inquiry he led last year into corruption in Brazilian soccer.
Romario helped Brazil win a record fourth World Cup title in 1994 in the United States.
His popularity won him a seat as a congressman and then senator for his home state of Rio de Janeiro. He has said he plans to run for governor of Rio to reform the financially bankrupt state.


(Reuters) - Nashville are expected to be named Major League Soccer’s (MLS) newest expansion franchise when commissioner Don Garber makes an “important announcement” in the Tennessee state capital on Wednesday.
Garber will appear alongside Tennessee state governor Bill Haslam, city mayor Megan Barry and the lead investor of Nashville’s expansion group, John Ingram, the league said.
MLS included Nashville on a short-list of four bidders for the two expansion teams that are scheduled to begin playing by 2020. The other three were Cincinnati, Detroit and Sacramento.
Nashville meets the three criteria deemed most important to MLS -- an approved stadium, a soccer-hungry public and an ownership group with deep pockets to cover the $150 million expansion fee.
The expansion group includes the Wilf brothers, who own the Minnesota Vikings of the National Football League (NFL).
The Nashville metro council last month voted to commit to bond funding for a new $275 million stadium.
Although Nashville has little soccer tradition, more than 56,000 attended an exhibition between English Premier League teams Manchester City and Tottenham Hotspur in July.
Nashville already has two major league sports franchises -- the Tennessee Titans of the NFL and the Nashville Predators of the National Hockey League (NHL).


(The Sports Xchange) - The New York Islanders were informed Tuesday that their proposal to build a new arena at Belmont Park just outside New York City was selected as the winning bid, according to a Newsday report.
The Islanders’ bid includes an 18,000-seat, year-round arena that would host 150 events annually as well as 435,000 square feet of space for retail, a hotel with 200 to 250 rooms and a 10,000 square-foot “innovation center” that would be developed with resident input, according to the report.
The team’s development partners include the Sterling Project Development, a real estate firm run by the New York Mets’ Wilpon family, and Oak View Group, an arena development company partially funded by Madison Square Garden.
A news conference is scheduled for Wednesday morning with New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo expected to be on hand.
The Pittsburgh Penguins acquired defenseman Jamie Oleksiak from the Dallas Stars in exchange for a conditional fourth-round pick in the 2019 NHL draft.
In a separate deal, Pittsburgh acquired goaltender Michael Leighton and a fourth-round pick in the 2019 NHL draft from the Arizona Coyotes in exchange for forward Josh Archibald, goaltender Sean Maguire and a sixth-round pick in that draft.
The Coyotes, in turn, sent former first-round pick Dylan Strome to Tucson of the American Hockey League. The 20-year-old Strome, who was the third overall pick of the 2015 NHL draft, has just one goal in 11 games this season.
Oleksiak has recorded one goal and two assists in 21 games this season with the Stars and accumulated 22 points (seven goals, 15 assists) in 140 career contests with the club.
The Columbus Blue Jackets assigned forward Tyler Motte to Cleveland of the American Hockey League, the team announced.


(The Sports Xchange) - Texas Rangers left-hander Martin Perez is expected to miss the start of the 2018 season after undergoing surgery to repair a fracture in his non-pitching elbow.
The surgery was performed by Dr. Thomas Diliberti in Dallas, with Perez expected to be able to start throwing in three to four weeks, the team announced Tuesday.
Perez is in line to be sidelined from game action for approximately four months, which would be a few weeks into the season. Perez posted a 13-12 mark with a 4.82 ERA in 32 starts last season.
Free-agent catcher Nick Hundley agreed to a one-year, $2.5 million contract to remain with the San Francisco Giants, the team announced.
Hundley, 34, batted .244 with nine homers and 35 RBIs last season while serving as Buster Posey’s backup.
Free-agent right-hander Yu Darvish posted on social media that he met with representatives from the Chicago Cubs on Monday.
Darvish, who is a four-time All-Star, tweeted a statement in Japanese confirming the meeting amid reports that Cubs president of baseball operations Theo Epstein and general manager Jed Hoyer were in Dallas to speak with him.
Darvish posted a 10-12 mark with a 3.86 ERA in 31 starts combined last season for the Texas Rangers and Los Angeles Dodgers. The 31-year-old struck out 209 batters over 186 2/3 innings.
Texas Rangers left-hander Cole Hamels and his wife, Heidi, have embraced the generous mood of the holidays.
The couple announced that it is donating a mansion located in southwest Missouri -- which is worth $9,418,400, according to Realtor.com, -- and the accompanying 100 acres of land to a charity that provides camps for children with special needs and chronic illnesses.


LONDON (Reuters) - Toyota will try again to win Le Mans next year and in 2019 after committing to another season of the world endurance championship.
The Japanese car maker had been considering its position after champions Porsche pulled out at the end of the 2017 season, leaving Toyota as the only major manufacturer in the top LMP1 category.
Toyota said in a statement on Tuesday, however, that it was committed to “at least” the 2018-19 season following publication of the regulations.
The ‘super season’ will last 14 months and includes two editions of the Le Mans 24 Hours sportscar race in June 2018 and 2019.
“It is highly regrettable that our rival in honing technologies on the roads of Le Mans has left,” said Toyota president Akio Toyoda.
“Yet the World Endurance Championship... and particularly Le Mans, where the battle goes on for 24 hours, including on public roads, still represent the optimal proving ground for achieving the goal of making cars fun for the next 100 years.”
The decision is a boost for double Formula One world champion Fernando Alonso, who tested with Toyota in Bahrain last month and is eager to race at Le Mans in his bid to become only the second driver to win the ‘Triple Crown’ of motorsport.
The McLaren driver entered the Indianapolis 500 this year, leading that race before retiring when his car’s Honda engine expired.
McLaren have ended their Formula One partnership with Honda, opening the door for Alonso to drive for Toyota at Le Mans -- a race that does not clash with any grand prix.
Toyota said it will announce the world endurance driver line-up early next year.
Only one Japanese manufacturer has ever won Le Mans, Mazda in 1991. Toyota have been five times runners-up and have spent hundreds of millions of dollars over the years in pursuit of victory at the French endurance classic.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Overall World Cup leader Mikaela Shiffrin confirmed her fine form this season, racing to victory in the women’s giant slalom at France’s Courchevel on Tuesday to tighten her grip at the top of the standings.
The American slalom specialist and Olympic champion, who hopes for more gold at the Pyeongchang winter Games in February, blew past the competition to finish almost a second ahead of her nearest rival, second-placed and home favorite Tessa Worley.
Italian Manuela Moelgg was third just before talented Norwegian Ragnhild Mowinckel.
Shiffrin, who skipped the World Cup event at Val D‘Isere last week, had notched her first career World Cup win in downhill at Canada’s Lake Louise earlier this month.
Germany’s Viktoria Rebensburg, second overall, and top of the giant slalom standings going into the race after winning the two previous ones this season, paid the price for two sloppy runs to finish in 14th.
The Pyeongchang Olympics in South Korea run from Feb. 9-25.


JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South African Paralympic gold medallist Oscar Pistorius has filed an application to the Constitutional Court seeking to overturn a higher prison sentence handed down by the appeals court last month, court documents showed on Tuesday.
Pistorius will appeal to the country’s highest court against the increased sentence of 13 years and five months, a murder term that the Supreme Court of Appeal more than doubled from an original six years for shooting dead his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp.


LONDON (Reuters) - World 100 meters champion Justin Gatlin said on Tuesday he was “shocked and surprised” at doping allegations made against his coach Dennis Mitchell, like Gatlin a convicted doper, but added that he had sacked him as soon as he heard about the issue.
Britain’s Daily Telegraph set up a sting where they claim  Mitchell, the American former medal-winning sprinter who was previously banned for doping, and sports agent Robert Wagner had offered to supply performance-enhancing drugs to undercover reporters claiming to be making a movie featuring a doped athlete.
Gatlin, 35, who won the world title in London this year against a backdrop of jeering relating to his two doping bans, issued a statement via Instagram where he said: ”I am not using and have not used PEDs (performance-enhancing drugs.
”I was shocked and surprised to learn that my coach would have anything to do with even the appearance of these current accusations. I fired him as soon as I found out about this.
“All legal options are on the table as I will not allow others to lie about me like this.”
The Athletics Integrity Unit and the US Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) have both said they are investigating the claims.
USADA said in a statement: “Investigations stemming from tips and whistleblowers play a critical role in anti-doping efforts. We are presently co-ordinating with the Athletics Integrity Unit in order to investigate these claims fully.”
The International Olympic Committee said on Tuesday: “The IOC has full confidence that WADA will look very carefully into this matter.”
The Telegraph quoted International Association of Athletics Federations president Seb Coe as saying: “These allegations are extremely serious and I know the independent Athletics Integrity Unit will investigate in accordance with its mandate.”
In a statement to the Telegraph, Mitchell, who confessed on oath to using banned substances during his career, said: “I never suggested in any way that any of my current athletes used any banned substances or that I was familiar with training any of my current athletes with those substances.”
Wagner also denied being involved in doping but said he “played along” in the sting because he knew what was going on.
Gatlin has been a divisive figure in the sport throughout his career, which brought him Olympic 100m gold in 2004 and a host of other global medals. He served two doping bans for offences he has always denied and after his second comeback, was widely painted by the media as the bad guy going up against the sport’s darling, Usain Bolt.
In August, in Bolt’s final individual championship race, Gatlin took the 100m gold at the World Championships in London, with the Jamaican finishing third.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Atlanta Falcons pulled within a game of the NFC South lead thanks to a 24-21 victory against the injury-plagued Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Monday night at Raymond James Stadium.
Tampa Bay kicker Patrick Murray was wide right on a 54-yard field-goal attempt as time expired.
The defending NFC champion Falcons (9-5) would win the division title if they defeat the New Orleans Saints (10-4) on Sunday and the Carolina Panthers (10-4) on Dec. 31.
The Bucs (4-10), who entered the game without three injured defensive starters, had six more players ruled out after getting hurt Monday night.
Falcons running back Devonta Freeman (22 carries, 126 yards) provided a 24-14 margin with a 32-yard touchdown run on third-and-2 with 7:58 remaining. The Bucs answered on Jameis Winston’s 16-yard pass to Adam Humphries with 4:07 to play.
From there, Tampa Bay eventually regained possession when Bucs defensive tackle Clinton McDonald dumped quarterback Matt Ryan for a 3-yard sack on third-and-9 just past the two-minute warning.
Winston completed three passes on Tampa Bay’s final drive, driving the Bucs from their 29-yard line to Atlanta’s 36, setting up Murray’s unsuccessful attempt to force overtime.
Winston completed 27 of 35 passes for 299 yards and three touchdowns in his most efficient effort of the season. Ryan was 17 of 31 for 212 yards and one score.
In the third quarter, the Bucs pulled within 17-14 on Winston’s 42-yard pass to Mike Evans, who outfought two defenders in the end zone. Tampa Bay preserved that three-point deficit when Will Gholston blocked Matt Bryant’s 33-yard field-goal attempt.
The Falcons led 17-7 at halftime, pulling away with a 10-point second quarter.
Atlanta gained its advantage when Freeman lost a fumble at the 1-yard line, but tight end Levine Toilolo recovered in the end zone for a touchdown.
The Bucs tried to answer back, but Peyton Barber lost a fumble at Atlanta’s 5-yard line and Falcons defensive tackle Dontari Poe recovered.
The Falcons tacked on a 57-yard field goal by Bryant with 3:12 remaining in the half for a 17-7 lead.
Atlanta opened the scoring with Ryan’s 6-yard pass to Justin Hardy.


(Reuters) - Salt Lake City officials expect the Utah capital to bid for the 2030 Winter Olympics and say it already has the infrastructure in place to host a low-cost Games, local media reported on Monday.
Fraser Bullock, co-chair of the city’s Olympic exploratory committee, told the Fox 13 television station the city could host the event at a cost of $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion, which would cover upgrades to venues used when the Games were held there in 2002.
That would be about $400 million less than it would cost cities that needed to build venues from scratch, he said.
“We have the venues built,” said Bullock, who was chief operating officer of the 2002 Olympics.
“We can economize in many ways to make that budget work.”
United States Olympic Committee CEO Scott Blackmun said earlier this month there were “significant challenges” associated with U.S. cities bidding for the 2026 Winter Games since it would come two years before Los Angeles hosts the Summer Games.
“We’re leaning more in the 2030 direction,” he said.
Reno-Tahoe, Denver and Salt Lake City had shown the most interest in hosting a Winter Games, he added.
Utah Governor Gary Herbert has also voiced support for bringing the Games back to Salt Lake City, where he said the bid enjoyed broad public support.


(Reuters) - Walt Disney Co’s (DIS.N) John Skipper resigned on Monday as president of ESPN, the company’s most important network, due to a problem with addiction.
"I have struggled for many years with a substance addiction," Skipper, who was also Disney Media Networks co-chairman, said in a statement. "I have decided that the most important thing I can do right now is to take care of my problem." (es.pn/2kgmnCb)
George Bodenheimer will be the sports network’s acting chairman for the next 90 days, ESPN said in a statement. He had been its president from 1998 to 2011 and executive chairman until May 2014.
An ESPN spokeswoman declined to comment on who may be considered as Skipper’s successor.
Skipper’s departure comes within a few days after Disney struck a deal to buy film, television and international businesses from Rupert Murdoch’s Twenty-First Century Fox Inc (FOXA.O) for $52.4 billion.
Skipper, who became ESPN president in 2012, has led the network to a series of long-term distribution agreements with major rights holders, including the National Basketball Association and Major League Baseball.
But ESPN has also struggled with subscriber losses and ratings declines. Last month, it said it would lay off about 150 employees.
Disney Chief Executive Officer Bob Iger, who extended his stay at the company through 2021 to oversee integration of Fox’s businesses, lauded Skipper’s candor and backed his decision.
Disney shares were down 0.2 percent at $111.09 on Monday afternoon.


(The Sports Xchange) - Pittsburgh Steelers wide receiver Antonio Brown isn’t letting his calf injury get him down.
Brown wrote on Twitter that the injury he sustained in the Steelers’ 27-24 loss to the New England Patriots was a “minor setback.” Multiple media outlets reported that Brown has a partially torn left calf and that the wideout is eyeing a return for the playoffs.
Carolina Panthers linebacker Thomas Davis was suspended two games by the NFL for his blindside hit that resulted in a concussion for Green Bay Packers wide receiver Davante Adams.
Davis is expected to appeal the suspension, multiple outlets reported.
The 34-year-old Davis apologized to Adams over social media for the hit following an interception during the third quarter of Sunday’s game at Bank of America Stadium.
The Carolina Panthers announced Monday that long-time executive Tina Becker will serve as Chief Operating Officer of the team in the wake of the scandal involving owner Jerry Richardson.
Becker will have full control of the day-to-day management of the organization, making her one of the highest-ranking females in the NFL.
The upheaval in the organization began when allegations of sexual misconduct arose against Richardson, who announced Sunday night that he is putting the team up for sale. That action came two days after the Panthers announced their investigation into Richardson’s conduct.
Dallas Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott returned to the team one day after Sunday’s 20-17 victory over the Oakland Raiders.
The goal was to stay in contention until Elliott returned from suspension, and the Cowboys have accomplished that. Elliott returns after sitting out the past six games for violating the NFL’s personal conduct policy, stemming from a July 2016 incident in which an ex-girlfriend accused him of domestic violence.
Before his suspension, Elliott ranked among the league rushing leaders with 783 rushing yards and 210 receiving yards. He found his stride in the four games prior to his suspension, too, averaging 126.5 yards a game while scoring six touchdowns (five rushing, one receiving).
Embattled Houston Texans coach Bill O‘Brien insisted that he will not quit or resign in his post.
Houston fell to 4-10 when it was pummeled 45-7 by the Jacksonville Jaguars on Sunday.
O‘Brien, 48, has one season remaining on his contract and there have been no discussions regarding an extension. Houston is 31-31 during O‘Brien’s four seasons. O‘Brien has a 1-2 coaching mark in the postseason.
The Arizona Cardinals haven’t scored a touchdown in their last 10 quarters and that helped prompt a change to quarterback Drew Stanton for Sunday’s game against the New York Giants.
Cardinals coach Bruce Arians announced the switch at his press conference Monday. Stanton, who is recovered from a knee injury, will replace Blaine Gabbert as the starter.
Stanton suffered the injury in Week 10. Gabbert started the past five games, with the Cardinals going 2-3. Arizona was eliminated from playoff contention with Sunday’s loss to the Washington Redskins.
Oakland Raiders standout left tackle Donald Penn will undergo season-ending foot surgery after being injured in Sunday’s game against the Dallas Cowboys.
Penn’s injury to his right foot will snap his streak of 170 consecutive regular-season starts dating back to his rookie season of 2007. Penn, a two-time Pro Bowler, will reportedly undergo surgery on Thursday.
Buffalo Bills wide receiver Kelvin Benjamin said that he will be undergoing surgery as soon as the season ends to repair the torn meniscus in his right knee.
Benjamin suffered the injury on Nov. 19 against the Chargers, sat out the next two games, and has now played in two straight. In those two games, he has only five catches for 58 yards and a touchdown, and against Miami it was clear that he was limited because he had tweaked the knee the week before in the snow game against Indianapolis.
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers are without three defensive starters for Monday night’s home game against the Atlanta Falcons.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Boston Red Sox re-signed free agent first baseman Mitch Moreland to a two-year contract through the 2019 season on Monday.
Moreland’s deal will reportedly pay him $13 million over two seasons with up to $1 million more in incentives, WEEI.com reports.
Moreland revealed after news broke of his re-signing that he underwent a scope on one of his knees to clean up a small meniscus tear, but that he is fully recovered now.
The 32-year-old batted .246 with 22 homers and 79 RBIs while playing in a career-high 149 games last season. Moreland owns a .252 batting average with 132 homers and 433 RBIs in 922 career contests with the Texas Rangers and Red Sox.
J.T. Realmuto reportedly wants to be part of the player exodus from Miami, as the Marlins catcher has requested a trade, according to multiple reports, after the new ownership began dismantling the team to slash payroll.
The group, which includes Derek Jeter, has already traded National League MVP Giancarlo Stanton to the New York Yankees, fellow All-Star outfielder Marcell Ozuna to the St. Louis Cardinals and two-time All-Star infielder Dee Gordon to the Seattle Mariners.
Outfielder Christian Yelich is also reportedly unhappy with the recent trades, according to ESPN. Yelich, 26, has four seasons remaining on his seven-year, $49.57 million contract but the club hasn’t been shopping him. He batted .282 with 18 homers, 81 RBIs and 16 steals last season, while the 26-year-old Realmuto set career highs of 17 homers and 65 RBIs last season while batting .278 in 141 games.
The San Diego Padres signed right-hander Jordan Lyles to a one-year contract with a club option for 2019.
Financial terms of the deal were not divulged by the Padres on Sunday, but FanRag Sports reported that Lyles will earn $750,000 in 2018.


(Reuters) - The Carolina Panthers have appointed Tina Becker as Chief Operating Officer (COO) with full control of the daily management of the National Football League (NFL) franchise, the team announced on Monday.
The Panthers said Becker, who started as a cheerleader, will be one of the highest-ranking female executives at an NFL team.
The news comes the day after owner Jerry Richardson said he would sell the team at the end of the season, amid allegations of workplace misconduct by the owner that are under investigation by the NFL.
Becker, who has been with the franchise since 1999 in a variety of positions, fills a post that had been vacant since team president Danny Morrison resigned earlier this year.
She acknowledged the turbulent times at the Panthers.
”These have been some of the most difficult days of my 19 years with the Panthers, but I am lifted up by the strong resolve and the commitment our employees have shown to this organization,” she said in a statement on the team’s website.
”Our team on the field is performing at a very high level, and I believe is bound for the Super Bowl.
“My immediate focus will be to ensure the corporate side of the organization performs at the same high level, while addressing the real concerns that have been raised in recent days.”
The Panthers are 10-4 with two games left in the regular season and are likely headed to the playoffs.


(The Sports Xchange) - The St. Louis Blues placed forward Jaden Schwartz on injured reserve with a right ankle injury and he will be re-evaluated in six weeks, the team announced Sunday.
Schwartz sustained the injury when he blocked a shot in the Blues’ 6-1 win over the Red Wings on Saturday in Detroit. He had to be helped off the ice after suffering the injury, which occurred late in the first period, and was not able to put any pressure on his right leg.
Schwartz, 25, did not return for the final two periods and the Blues said after the game that initial X-rays were negative. Before having to leave the game, Schwartz scored his 14th goal of the season.
The Vegas Golden Knights activated three-time Stanley Cup winner Marc-Andre Fleury from injured reserve and assigned fellow goaltender Maxime Lagace to Chicago of the American Hockey League.
Fleury has been sidelined since Oct. 14 with a concussion. The 33-year-old Quebec native recorded a 3-1-0 mark with a 2.48 goals-against average and .925 save percentage in four games this season.
Lagace owned a 6-6-1 record with a 3.79 GAA and .872 save percentage in 14 appearances this season. He recorded a career-high 36 saves in Vegas’ 5-3 win over the Dallas Stars on Saturday.
The Florida Panthers plan to retire No. 37 in honor of franchise founder and former owner H. Wayne Huizenga, the team announced.
Panthers owner Vincent Viola made the announcement on the 25th anniversary since the club was awarded a hockey franchise. The ceremony will take place on Jan. 19 at BB&T Center when the Panthers host the expansion Vegas Golden Knights.
The number was selected by the Huizenga family in recognition of Wayne’s birth year and lucky number.
The No. 37 will be the second number retired by the franchise and both honor front office members. In October 2010, the organization raised No. 93 to the rafters in honor of William A. Torrey, the former Panthers president and current special advisor to the general manager.
The Dallas Stars recalled forward Jason Dickinson from the Texas Stars of the American Hockey League.


LONDON (Reuters) - Manchester City beat Manchester United 2-1 at Old Trafford to go 11 points clear at the top of the Premier League on Sunday while Liverpool and Everton drew 1-1 in a snowswept Merseyside derby at Anfield.
City’s victory marked the first time a team have won 14 consecutive English top-flight games in the same season and ended United’s run of 40 home games unbeaten in all competitions.
Pep Guardiola’s side took the lead in the 43rd minute  through David Silva but poor defending allowed United to hit back immediately with Marcus Rashford grabbing an equalizer before the break.
Nicolas Otamendi volleyed in the winner on the half-turn nine minutes into the second half.
City now have 46 points from 16 games, with United staying second on 35, and look like the title is theirs to lose even if Guardiola was not about to get carried away.
“We won because we were better. We are still in December, if we have 11 points (lead) when we play the second derby in April then maybe I will tell you that we have the title,” said the Spaniard.
Champions Chelsea, who lost 1-0 at relegation-threatened West Ham United on Saturday, are third on 32 points with Liverpool squandering a chance to overtake them and staying fourth on 30.
Liverpool manager Juergen Klopp fumed after his side’s draw, with Everton’s former England captain Wayne Rooney equalizing from the penalty spot after a sensational first-half goal by Mohamed Salah.
“The other team was not even in our box, I don’t know if they had a shot on target apart from the penalty. To give them an open door like this, in my understanding, that’s not okay,” said Klopp.
“There are greater catastrophes on this planet than getting a point after a game like this but it feels not too good,” added the German.
Salah’s 42nd-minute stunner sent the Egyptian clear of Tottenham Hotspur’s England striker Harry Kane as the league’s top marksman with 13 goals. Kane had scored twice in a 5-1 victory over Stoke City on Saturday.
Rooney’s goal was his first in a Merseyside derby, a match he last featured in almost 14 years ago before moving to Manchester United.
“It’s always nice scoring against Liverpool, whoever you’re playing for,” he said.
In the day’s early match, Southampton and Arsenal also drew 1-1 with Charlie Austin putting the hosts ahead in the third minute at St Mary’s and Olivier Giroud heading in a late equalizer after coming on as a second-half substitute.
It was the 17th time Giroud had scored as a substitute for Arsenal, equaling Norwegian Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s record with Manchester United for most goals scored off the bench for a single club.
City dominated possession at Old Trafford, showing they have grit as well as class even if the performance was not a classic display of the manager’s attractive passing soccer.
Jose Mourinho’s team selection had suggested a more expansive approach, with Anthony Martial and Rashford supporting central striker Romelu Lukaku, but the Portuguese was left with a bitter taste.
“It is a significant distance,” he said of City’s lead, before being asked if his team could make it up.
“I don’t know. I know we can win next Wednesday (against Bournemouth).”
Like Klopp, Mourinho was also upset with the referee -- in this case for not awarding a penalty to his side in the 79th minute when Ander Herrera went down in the box under pressure from Otamendi.
“My first reaction is I feel sorry for referee Michael Oliver because he had a very good match but unfortunately he made an important mistake,” he said.
“The result was made with a big penalty not given... Michael was unlucky because it was a clear penalty.”


JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - India’s Shubhankar Sharma remained on course for his maiden European Tour victory as lightning, rain and hail forced the Joburg Open into a Monday finish.
Sharma, ranked number 462 in the world, has a tournament total of 22 under-par and holds a four-shot lead over South Africa’s Erik van Rooyen with 11 holes of his final round remaining.
Play will restart on Monday at 07h30 local time (05h30 GMT).
Sharma, 21, birdied the second and sixth holes on Sunday for a two under-par score in his final round, having now gone 44 holes since he last dropped a shot.
Van Rooyen remains in the hunt at four under-par from eight holes in his fourth round, and will have a three-foot putt on the par-four ninth to move to within three shots of Sharma when play resumes.
Tapio Pulkkanen of Finland and England’s James Morrison are tied for third at 14 under-par for the tournament, with 10 and 11 holes remaining respectively in their final rounds.
The top three finishers at the Randpark Golf Club, who are not already exempt, will earn a place at next year’s Open Championship at Carnoustie Golf Links.


VAL D‘ISERE (Reuters) - Six-times overall World Cup winner Marcel Hirscher defied difficult conditions to win the slalom at Val d‘Isere on Sunday.
The Austrian, who broke his ankle in pre-season training in August but now looks fully recovered, was only eighth fastest after the first leg in heavy snow and poor visibility.
But the 28-year-old bounced back to produce a perfect second run and win with a combined time of one minute 41.94 seconds, 0.39 seconds ahead of ahead of Norway’s Henrik Kristoffersen while Andre Myhrer of Sweden was third.
Twenty-four skiers fell victim to the conditions as they failed to complete the first run.
Hirscher’s second World Cup win of the season, following his giant slalom victory at Beaver Creek one week earlier, lifted him to second in the overall standings behind Kristoffersen.


ST MORITZ (Reuters) - American Lindsey Vonn pulled out of Sunday’s Super G World Cup race at St Moritz, saying she needed to take care of herself in the run-up to the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in two months’ time.
The race itself was later called off due to bad weather.
Vonn, the finest woman skier of her generation, was treated for nearly one hour following Saturday’s race on the same course after suffering what she described as an  “acute facet (spinal joint) dysfunction.”
She said her back “seized up” near the sixth gate and, although she completed the course, she crumpled after the finish line and was clearly in enormous pain.
“Unfortunately I will not be able to race today,” she said on Twitter.
“I am extremely disappointed but my biggest goal this season is the Olympics and I need to take care of myself now so I can be ready for next week, and more importantly, for February.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Basketball Association games on Saturday:
Heat 101, Nets 89
Goran Dragic scored 20 points as the Miami Heat beat the Brooklyn Nets 101-89 in the Global Games in Mexico City on Saturday.
Tyler Johnson also scored 20 points for the Heat to follow up his season-high 25-point showing in Wednesday’s loss at San Antonio. He helped Miami stay close by scoring 18 of his points before halftime.
James Johnson added 17 while Justise Winslow contributed a season-high 15 points and hit a career-best four 3-pointers as Miami shot 46.7 percent from the field.
Rondae Hollis-Jefferson led the Nets with 18 points and Spencer Dinwiddie contributed 15 and nine assists but it was not enough as Brooklyn dropped its sixth straight game against Miami and appeared fatigued by Mexico City’s over 7,000-foot altitude.
Clippers 113, Wizards 112
Lou Williams scored 35 points, including a long three-pointer with just over a second remaining, as Los Angeles ended a three-game losing streak with a victory over Washington.
Otto Porter Jr scored 27 points and Bradley Beal scored 25, but that total did not count what appeared to be Bradley Beal’s game-winner as time expired.
The game ended in controversial fashion as Beal looked as if he scored the winning basket on a baseline jump shot, but it came just after the buzzer sounded.
Referees ruled the clock started too soon and replayed the Wizards’ final possession.
Rockets 124, Blazers 117
James Harden scored 48 points as Houston rallied from a 14-point deficit after three quarters for a victory over Portland.
Chris Paul added 26 points and seven assists for the Rockets, who extended their win streak to nine games and have won 15 of their last 16 outings.
Damian Lillard scored 35 points and CJ McCollum had 28 for the Trail Blazers, who lost four the fourth straight game -- all at home.
Lakers 110, Hornets 99
Jordan Clarkson scored 22 points, including 14 in the fourth quarter, and Los Angeles won its second straight to open a four-game road trip with a victory over Charlotte.
The Lakers took charge midway through the fourth quarter of a game that had 19 lead changes and nine ties. They led by as many as 15 in the last five minutes. The Lakers opened the trip with a win at Philadelphia on Thursday.
Brandon Ingram added 18 points for the Lakers as part of a balanced attack. The Lakers also got 15 points from Kentavious Caldwell-Pope, 13 points from Brook Lopez, 12 points and 14 rebounds from Kyle Kuzma and 12 points from Julius Randle.
Hawks 117, Magic 110
Kent Bazemore had two steals and slams and two free throws in the final 30 seconds to help the Atlanta secure a win over Orlando.
Bazemore finished with 19 points, 17 of them in the second half, as Atlanta avenged Wednesday’s overtime loss to Orlando and snap a two-game losing streak. Orlando has dropped two straight.
Atlanta was led by Ersan Ilyasova, who was 9-for-9 from the field and scored a season-high 26 points.
Cavaliers 105, 76ers 98
LeBron James scored or assisted on the Cavaliers’ final 22 points en route to another triple-double in Cleveland’s win.
James finished with 30 points, 13 rebounds and 13 assists in 39 minutes for his 58th career triple-double during the regular season and third this year.
Jeff Green, Kyle Korver, and Dwyane Wade all scored 13 points off Cleveland’s bench. Jae Crowder scored 12 points, including a dagger three-pointer from James with 40.9 seconds left for a 104-98 lead.
Bulls 104, Knicks 102
Nikola Mirotic scored 19 points and Kris Dunn scored 17, including a pair of free throws with 2.9 seconds remaining, as Chicago beat New York.
Lauri Markkanen and David Nwaba each scored 15 points for Chicago, which also got 11 points from Robin Lopez and 10 from Bobby Portis.
Kristaps Porzingis led New York with 23 points to go along with 14 from Courtney Lee.
Bucks 117, Jazz 100
Giannis Antetokounmpo flirted with a triple-double, scoring 37 points with 13 rebounds and seven assists in Milwaukee’s win over Utah.
Antetokounmpo, Eric Bledsoe and Khris Middleton put together another big night offensively, combining for 77 points on 28-of-49 shooting while the Bucks shot 54.3 percent overall.
The Jazz set a franchise record for three-pointers when they hit 18 against the Bucks two weeks ago but were 8-for-23 from beyond the arc and shot just 43.4 percent overall.
Spurs 104, Suns 101
LaMarcus Aldridge scored 20 points and Bryn Forbes hit a three-pointer with 21.5 seconds left as short-handed San Antonio posted a win over Phoenix.
Trailing by 19 points in the third quarter, the Suns got back into the game with a 26-9 run and took their first lead of the game at 100-99 on a Marquese Chriss runaway slam with 1:19 left.
But after Josh Jackson made one of two free throws to extend the lead to two, Patty Mills found Forbes alone in front of the Spurs bench for his first made three-pointerin six tries to give San Antonio the lead for good.
Thunder 102, Grizzlies 101 (OT)
Russell Westbrook completed another triple-double just in time to give Oklahoma City a much-needed road victory in overtime, against free-falling Memphis.
Westbrook, who shot 7-of-29 from the field, had the ball in his hands with his team down 101-100 in the final eight seconds. Russell blew by the defense, drew the contact and hit both free throws to give the Thunder the lead.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Hockey League games on Saturday:
Maple Leafs 4, Penguyins 3
The Toronto Maple Leafs scored twice in the opening two minutes on Saturday and held on to beat the Pittsburgh Penguins 4-3.
Toronto (19-10-1), which has won four of five, received goals from Connor Brown and James van Riemsdyk in the first 1:42. Tyler Bozak made it 3-0 later in the initial period with the first of his two goals to go along with an assist. Mitch Marner added three assists.
Riley Sheahan scored for the second game in a row, and Evgeni Malkin and Sidney Crosby also tallied for Pittsburgh (16-12-3), which had won five of six.
Toronto goaltender Frederik Andersen made 33 saves to improve to 10-2-1 with two shutouts and 25 goals allowed in his past 13 games.
Pittsburgh goalie Casey DeSmith, making his second NHL appearance, stopped 10 shots in relief of Tristan Jarry.
Golden Knights 5, Stars 3
Four different players scored and Maxime Lagace stopped 35 of 38 shots for Vegas in a win against Dallas.
Alex Tuch, David Perron, Reilly Smith, Brayden McNabb and Erik Haula scored for Vegas (19-9-1), which won its fourth straight. Brendan Leipsic and Cody Eakin added two assists.
Tyler Pitlick, Jason Spezza and Jamie Benn scored for Dallas (16-13-1), which lost its third straight. The Stars have been outscored 13-5 over their last three losses.
Kings 3, Hurricanes 2
Tanner Pearson scored with 20 seconds left in overtime and Los Angeles won its eighth consecutive game with a victory over Carolina.
Pearson, Anze Kopitar and Tyler Toffoli each had a goal and an assist for the Kings (20-8-3), who pulled within a win of their franchise record of nine straight victories from Jan. 21 to Feb. 6, 2010.
Jonathan Quick made 32 saves for Los Angeles.
Carolina scored twice in the final seven minutes of regulation to tie the score.
Victor Rask prevented Quick from getting his 47th career shutout when he took a pass from Teuvo Teravainen and scored on a one-timer with 6:57 remaining.
Blue Jackets 1, Coyotes 0
Columbus left winger Artemi Panarin delivered the primary assist on a sixth consecutive goal in the past two games and the Blue Jackets held off Arizona.
Josh Anderson scored his team-leading 11th goal in the opening minute of the game with the assist from Panarin and Blue Jackets goaltender Sergei Bobrovsky posted his fourth shutout of the season.
The Blue Jackets (19-10-1) survived two penalties against Panarin with 2:53 remaining in the third period to remain atop the Metropolitan Division standings after completing a back-to-back with two wins. They beat the New Jersey Devils on the road the night before.
In that game, Panarin tied the franchise record with five primary assists in the 5-3 victory. He has a team-leading 19 assists and 26 points in 30 games this season.
The Coyotes (7-20-5) have lost five of their past six games. They became the first team in the NHL with 20 losses this season.
Rangers 5, Devils 2
Mats Zuccarello scored twice and Henrik Lundqvist stopped 26 shots as the New York Rangers defeated New Jersey.
The Rangers (16-11-2) won for the seventh time in nine games.
Jimmy Vesey, Jesper Fast and Kevin Hayes also scored for the Rangers. Rick Nash had two assists.
The Devils (16-9-4) lost consecutive games in regulation for the first time this season. Damon Severson and Miles Wood scored for the Devils, who received 34 saves from Keith Kinkaid.
Bruins 3, Islanders 1
Tuukka Rask turned aside 30 shots for his fourth straight win, leading Boston to a victory over the New York Islanders.
Rask, who had been struggling to start the season, causing a bit of a goaltending controversy as Anton Khudobin ripped off four straight wins, has allowed four goals during his winning streak.
He lost what would have been his 40th career shutout when Andres Lee scored with 3:08 left but raised his record to 7-8-2.
With the Islanders pressing for the tying goal, Danton Heinen hit the empty net with 41.2 seconds remaining in the game.
Brad Marchand (11th goal) and rookie Jake DeBrusk scored, with Torey Krug and David Pastrnak assisting on both goals as the Bruins won for the fourth time in their last five games.
Blues 6, Red Wings 1
St. Louis scored four goals on five shots in the first and second periods and defeated Detroit.
Brayden Schenn and Jay Bouwmeester had a goal and an assist each and Jayden Schwartz, Vladimir Sobotka, Scottie Upshall and Dmitrij Jaskin scored for St. Louis, which won its third straight.
Alex Pietrangelo had two assists and goalie Jake Allen made 28 saves.
Frans Nielsen scored for Detroit, which has lost eight of its last nine.
Lightning 4, Jets 3
Brayden Point scored his third overtime goal of the season to lead Tampa Bay to a victory against Winnipeg.
Point raced in on goalie Connor Hellebuyck and flipped a backhander into the net for the winner as Tampa Bay won its fourth consecutive game to cap off a perfect four-game homestand.
Nikolaj Ehlers, Andrew Copp and Kyle Connor scored for Winnipeg, which is on a season-long three-game losing streak.
Nikita Kucherov, Mikhail Sergachev and Yanni Gourde scored for the Lightning in regulation.
Avalanche 7, Panthers 3
Colorado scored four straight goals -- including two within 41 seconds -- snapping a four-game losing streak with a win over Florida.
Semyon Varlamov made 39 saves to earn the win.
The Avalanche got goals Mikko Rantanen, a tying score from Nathan MacKinnon, a tiebreaking deflection from Alexander Kerfoot, insurance markers by Erik Johnson and Colin Wilson and empty-netters by Matt Nieto and Carl Soderberg.
Florida got goals from Aaron Ekblad, Denis Malgin and Jonathan Huberdeau but was unable to avoid its fourth loss in the past five games.
Malgin has four goals this season -- all of them within the past six games.
Oilers 6, Canadiens 2
Jujhar Khaira scored two goals and Laurent Brossoit made 22 saves to help Edmonton to a win against Montreal.
Michael Cammalleri, Milan Lucic, Oscar Klefbom and Yohann Auvito also scored for the Oilers (12-15-2), who won for the fifth time in eight games (5-3-0).
Edmonton captain Connor McDavid had two assists.
Alex Galchenyuk and Phillip Danault scored for the Canadiens (13-14-4), who have dropped three in a row (0-2-1) following a five-game winning streak.
Carey Price allowed four goals on 14 shots and was replaced by Antti Niemi at 2:24 of the second period.
Sharks 5, Senators 0
Four different skaters scored and Aaron Dell registered his second shutout of the season as the Sharks beat the Ottawa.
Dell made 25 saves for his third career shutout. The Senators have been blanked in three of their last four outings. San Jose has won consecutive games.
Joe Pavelski scored his sixth goal of the season at 3:24 of the third period on the power play. Logan Couture provided the primary assist, which was his 400th career point. And Tomas Hertl scored his sixth goal of the season at 17:38 of the third.
The Sharks were all over the Senators through 40 minutes, leading 3-0 and outshooting the visitors by a 31-14 count.
Flames 4, Canuks 2
Sam Bennett scored the game-winning goal with 1:10 remaining in the game and Calgary beat Vancouver.
Bennett skated out from the corner and put a backhand past Canucks goalie Anders Nilsson for his fourth goal of the season.
Matthew Tkachuk added an empty netter with 23 seconds left for his second goal of the night. Troy Brouwer also scored for Calgary.
Brock Boeser and Jake Virtanen were the Canucks scorers.
The Flames (16-12-2) ended a home losing skid at three games and returned to the .500 mark at the Saddledome through 16 games with their eighth home win.


(Reuters) - Vasyl Lomachenko retained his WBO super-featherweight title with a sixth round technical knockout of Guillermo Rigondeaux in New York City on Saturday, the impressive Ukrainian handing the Cuban-born American his first professional defeat.
The highly-anticipated duel between a pair of double Olympic champions resulted in an anti-climatic finish, however, when Rigondeaux, citing a hand and wrist injury, told the referee that he did not want to continue prior to the seventh round.
All three judges had Rigondeaux, who moved up two weight divisions for the bout, behind when he quit in front of a disappointed Madison Square Garden crowd, making it the fourth consecutive Lomachenko fight in which his opponent has retired.
Lomachenko, the 29-year-old heavy pre-fight favorite, defended his title for a fourth time and improved his career record to 10-1 (eight TKOs), including seven knockouts.
The 37-year-old Rigondeaux (17-1), who was warned by the referee several times for foul play, began telling his trainer after the third round that his left hand and wrist hurt.
“This is not his weight so it’s not a big win for me,” Lomachenko, who won gold medals at the Beijing and London Olympics, told reporters. “But he’s a good fighter, he’s got great skills. I adjusted to his style, low blows and all.”


TORONTO (Reuters) - Jozy Altidore’s second half goal helped propel a relentless Toronto FC to a 2-0 victory over the Seattle Sounders on Saturday to claim their first Major League Soccer championship after a gut-wrenching loss in last year’s final.
The victory capped a superb season for the Reds, adding the MLS Cup to the Supporters’ Shield that goes to the club with the best regular-season record and the Voyageurs Cup as Canadian champions.
Everything they accomplished this season, however, including a regular season points record, mattered little beyond getting back to the final and avenging their loss on penalties to Seattle last year.
“This trophy has been an obsession for the last 364 days not just for me but every single guy on our team, every coach, every member of our staff,” Toronto FC captain Michael Bradley told reporters.
”To get back here, to give ourselves another crack at it has been, honestly there is no other word for it, other than obsession.
“It’s hard to describe to people outside what it has been like to live that every day.”
The victory did more than exorcise the demons from a year ago, it also went some way towards restoring the pride of a franchise whose reputation had been one of failure rather than excellence.
Toronto, who played their first season in 2007, did not reach the postseason until 2015 – the longest playoff drought in league history.
“It has been a long time, a long journey to get here and heartache along the way as we saw last year but it’s been an incredible journey,” said Toronto coach Greg Vanney, who had also lost three previous finals with the Los Angeles Galaxy.
While Toronto had dominated the final from the outset, Seattle goalkeeper Sebastian Frei was in imperious form as the home side peppered him with shots.
Altidore, who scored the only goal in the Eastern Conference final against the Columbus Crew, finally beat Frei when he ran onto a through ball from Sebastian Giovinco, outpaced the defense and coolly slotted a shot past the goalkeeper.
It was the first goal conceded by the Sounders in this year’s playoffs.
“It’s my job, I‘m a striker it is my job to create and try to score goals,” said Altidore, who was named man of the match. “Night’s like this is what it is all about.”
Victor Vazquez then added a second into injury time lighting the fuse on wild celebrations for the capacity crowd of 30,584 who had braved the chilly conditions.
“This team, this year is like nothing I have ever been a part of just in terms of a group guys so single minded,” said Bradley.
“To cap it off tonight the way we did, to play the way we did with everything on the line I‘m so proud.”


(The Sports Xchange) - New England quarterback Tom Brady on Saturday put to rest any talk of a rift between himself and Patriots offensive coordinator Josh McDaniels.
During the 23-3 win over the Bills last Sunday in Buffalo, McDaniels and Brady exchanged words and the New England quarterback stormed off the field animated while continuing to bark at McDaniels.
“I want to apologize to Josh for last week in Buffalo,” Brady told reporters Saturday. “I know the coaches work really hard. They’re responsible for putting us in a great position to succeed. So I just want to get that off my chest.”
Brady was 21-of-30 passing for 258 yards en route to his 27th career victory over the Bills as the Patriots won for the eighth straight time.
Several members of the Pittsburgh Steelers, including wide receiver Antonio Brown, will honor injured teammate Ryan Shazier on Sunday.
Brown posted a short video on Snapchat Friday of the customized cleats he intends to wear during warmups prior to Sunday night’s game against the Baltimore Ravens.
One yellow cleat features Shazier’s face, while the other has a picture of a lion, which Shazier has used on social media on numerous occasions. Both cleats have Shazier’s name and number (50) on them, along with the hashtag “#SHALIEVE.”
Shazier underwent spinal stabilization surgery Wednesday after sustaining a severe injury against the Cincinnati Bengals on Monday night. The 25-year-old spent Monday and Tuesday night at the University of Cincinnati medical center before being transferred to Pittsburgh on Wednesday.
Geno Smith Jr., father of New York Giants quarterback Geno Smith, said he received a death threat last week before his son started in place of a benched Eli Manning.
Smith Jr. told NJ Advance Media that he received the call a little more than an hour after it was announced that his son would replace Manning for last Sunday’s game against the Oakland Raiders.
“I was just at work,” Smith Jr. told NJ.com on Friday. “I answered, and he was like, ‘Geno?’ So I just listened, and he was like, ‘Is this Geno?’ I was like, ‘Yeah.’ He was like, ‘Your son better not start or we’re going to kill you.’ I kind of just laughed and then he hung up.”
The 43-year-old Smith Jr. told NJ Advance Media that he was sitting in his car monitoring workers removing debris as part of FEMA’s disaster relief efforts in Miami and Broward County when he received the threatening call from a man he said sounded in his late 20s. He said the phone number had a Missouri area code.
The Cincinnati Bengals placed cornerback Adam “Pacman” Jones on injured reserve, the team announced.
The 34-year-old Jones injured his groin while making a diving interception of Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger in Monday night’s 23-20 loss. He was ruled out of the game in the first quarter and did not practice this week.
Jones finished his 11th NFL season and eighth for the Bengals with 23 tackles, one interception and four passes defensed in nine games, all starts. He also was one of the team’s kick and punt returners.
Dallas Cowboys linebacker Justin Durant, defensive lineman David Irving and cornerback Orlando Scandrick were downgraded from questionable to out for Sunday’s game against the New York Giants.
Durant will be missing his second straight game because of a concussion.
Irving has seen limited time this year, but when he has played, he has been a destructive force. He missed the first four games after being suspended for violating the NFL’s ban on performance-enhancing drugs, but has compiled 22 tackles and seven sacks (second on the team).


(Reuters) - A family-like atmosphere helped the Los Angeles Angels win the frenzied battle to sign Japanese ace Shohei Ohtani, the team’s general manager Billy Eppler said on Friday.
Ohtani’s decision to join the American League West division team over several bigger franchises that courted him might have surprised some, but he could become the latest piece of the puzzle needed to elevate his new employers into the playoffs.
“I think he felt that there was a family-like atmosphere with the Angels and something that he was wanting to and willing to be a part of for a lot of years to come,” Eppler told Los Angeles radio station KLAA 830 AM.
“I think it was his comfort level with us and not only just the plan that we put together for him, but just the overall vibe of the organization.”
The pitcher and slugger, who played for the Nippon Ham Fighters in Japan, will join Garrett Richards in the starting rotation and provide danger at the plate on a team that includes MVP sluggers Mike Trout and Albert Pujols.
Ohtani was the most coveted free agent in the off-season after announced he would leave the Hokkaido-based NPB (Nippon Professional Baseball) team and move to Major League Baseball.
The 23-year-old pitches right-handed has a stellar 2.52 earned run average (ERA) in five seasons in the Japan big leagues, and his arsenal includes a 100 miles-per-hour (162 kph) fastball and an excellent slider.
The left-handed batter hit .332 in 2017 and has slugged 48 home runs in 1,035 career at-bats.
He is widely expected to slot into the batting line-up in games when he is not pitching, but Eppler declined to go into specifics.
“The most important participant in the plan, it’s going to be Shohei,” he said.
“It’s going to be how he is accustomed to developing and how he is accustomed to his own workload management. He’s going to really be an active participant in this plan.”
Ohtani joins a team that went 80-82 in the 2017 season and has reached the playoffs just once in the past eight seasons.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Hockey League games on Friday:
Capitals 4, Rangers 2
Matt Niskanen scored the go-ahead goal with 3:32 remaining, Tom Wilson and Nicklas Backstrom each added a goal and an assist, and the Washington Capitals defeated New York.
Wilson’s goal gave Washington a 4-2 lead with 1:32 left. Backstrom and Jay Beagle also scored for the Capitals, who have won four straight and seven of their last eight.
Michael Grabner and Jesper Fast scored for the Rangers in the first meeting of the season between the Metropolitan Division rivals.
Golden Knights 4 Predators 3 (SO)
Reilly Smith’s goal in the sixth round of a shootout Friday gave the Vegas Golden Knights a 4-3 win over the Nashville Predators at sold-out Bridgestone Arena.
Vegas forced overtime at 19:20 when, with a sixth skater, Erik Haula ripped a one-timer from the right circle for his 10th goal of the season.
Nashville had gained its first lead at 14:56 of the third period off a turnover from Shea Theodore.
Viktor Arvidsson took the puck and fed Nick Bonino, who had plenty of time and space in the slot to wire a wrister home for his sixth goal of the season.
Arvidsson brought the Predators even at 8:04 of the third with his 10th goal, poking the rebound of Kevin Fiala’s shot past a prone Malcolm Subban.
Blackhawks 3, Sabres 2 (OT)
Gustav Forsling scored the winning goal with 4.9 seconds remaining in overtime to lift Chicago over Buffalo at the United Center.
Alex DeBrincat and Tommy Wingels also scored for the Blackhawks, who erased a one-goal deficit with 3:22 remaining in the third period.
Forsling finished with a goal and two assists to help Chicago snap a five-game winless streak.
Jason Pominville and Kyle Okposo scored for the Sabres, who picked up a point by taking the game to overtime but fell short against Chicago for the 12th game in a row.
Blue Jackets 5, Devils 3
After losing to New Jersey on Tuesday, Columbus rebounded to end a two-game skid with the help of a five-point game from Artemi Panarin.
With the score tied 3-3 early in the third period, Alexander Wennberg came through with only his second goal of the season, snapping a 17-game drought, at 1:32. The goal was just Columbus’ eighth all season on the power play.
Zach Werenski put the game away, scoring a four-on-four goal at 15:02 to make it 5-3. Panarin had the primary assist on all five Columbus goals, tying franchise records for most points and assists in one game.
Wild 3, Ducks 2 (OT)
Matt Dumba scored the winning goal 3:43 into overtime and Devan Dubnyk registered 26 saves as Minnesota defeated Anaheim.
The Wild came back from a 1-0 deficit but blew a 2-1 lead in regulation. The win snapped a three-game road losing streak.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of National Basketball Association games on Friday:
Pacers 106, Cavaliers 102
Victor Oladipo scored 33 points to help the Indiana Pacers top the Cleveland Cavaliers 106-102, snapping their league-leading 13-game winning streak.
The Pacers made 15 3-point shots. Oladipo made 6 of 13 treys. Myles Turner added 15 points for Indiana.
LeBron James paced the Cavaliers with 29 points on 12-of-22 shooting and also had 10 rebounds and eight assists. Kevin Love added 20 points and J.R. Smith 15 for the Cavs.
The Pacers shot 44.2 percent (38 of 86) overall while the Cavs were at 43 percent (37 of 86).
Warriors 102, Pistons 98
Kevin Durant had a season-high 36 points to go with 10 rebounds, seven assists and five blocks and Golden State won its sixth straight.
Durant came up a few assists shy of a second consecutive triple-double after a 35-point, 11-rebound, 10-assist performance at Charlotte on Wednesday.
The Warriors became the 11th team in league history to sweep a six-game road trip.
The last team to achieve that feat was the Los Angeles Lakers during the 2008-09 season.
Golden State was playing its second straight game with two-time MVP Stephen Curry, who will miss at least two weeks with a right ankle sprain. Avery Bradley’s 25 points led the Pistons, who have lost five straight.
Nuggets 103, Magic 89
Reserve Kenneth Faried scored 20 points and grabbed 10 rebounds in leading Denver over Orlando.
Will Barton had 19 points and six rebounds, and Emmanuel Mudiay had 18 points. The Nuggets snapped a four-game losing streak.
The Magic lost forward Aaron Gordon, the team’s leading scorer, in the second half with a concussion, which stemmed from a first-half collision with Denver’s Gary Harris.
Harris and Malik Beasley each had 12 points. Wilson Chandler had 11 points. Nikola Vucevic led the Magic with 21 points and 17 rebounds. Jonathon Simmons scored 21 points.
Bulls 119, Hornets 111 (OT)
Lauri Markkanen scored 24 points and Chicago snapped a 10-game losing streak with an overtime win over Charlotte Hornets.
Markkanen scored five points in the extra session, and his 3-pointer with 2:08 remaining made it 113-108 and was probably the key basket of the game. The Bulls had not won since beating the Hornets in Chicago on Nov. 17.
Kris Dunn had 20 points and 12 assists for the Bulls. Robin Lopez finished with 19 points and 10 rebounds, and Justin Holiday scored 17. Markkanen also had 12 rebounds.
Kings 116, Pelicans 109 (OT)
Zach Randolph scored 35 points, including a back-to-back 3-pointers to open overtime, to lift Sacramento over New Orleans.
The Kings trailed 100-91 with 3:31 left in regulation, but they ran off eight consecutive points to close within 100-99 with 1:06 left. Buddy Hield made a 3-pointer and a layup in that stretch.
A dunk by DeMarcus Cousins with 49.5 seconds left put New Orleans up 102-99, but Hield, who scored 18 points, tied the game with a 3-pointer from the right wing with 34.8 seconds remaining.
Jrue Holiday missed in the lane for New Orleans, and Randolph missed a baseline jumper on the final two possessions, sending it to overtime.
Raptors 116, Grizzlies 107
DeMar DeRozan scored 26 points as Toronto rallied to defeat Memphis for its fifth straight.
Serge Ibaka scored 21 points and Kyle Lowry finished with 16 points, eight assists, six rebounds and two steals for the Raptors. DeRozan added seven rebounds and six assists.
Tyreke Evans led the Grizzlies with 27 points. Marc Gasol finished with 20 points, seven rebounds and four assists. Chandler Parsons had 15 points, four rebounds and two blocks off the bench.
Bucks 109, Mavericks 102
Khris Middleton scored 31 points, Giannis Antetokounmpo finished with 27 and Eric Bledsoe added 24 as Milwaukee fought off Dallas.
Middleton made five 3-pointers -- including two in the fourth quarter -- while the Bucks’ big three combined to make 24 of 54 shots from the floor.
Wes Matthews led Dallas with 29 points and had five of Dallas’ 10 3-pointers, but the Mavericks had no answer for Middleton or Bledsoe as the duo combined for 27 points in the fourth quarter.
Spurs 105, Celtcis 102 (OT)
Manu Ginobili canned a 26-foot 3-pointer with 5 seconds to play to lift the San Antonio Spurs to a 105-102 victory over the Boston Celtics in a game between two of the NBA’s heavyweights at AT&T Center.
The game was tied at 102 after a basket by the Spurs’ LaMarcus Aldridge with 1:32 to play.
Two Kyrie Irving misses on 3-pointers, an Aldridge turnover and a miss on a 3 by San Antonio’s Rudy Gay that Ginobili gobbled up on the baseline with 25.8 seconds to play set the stage for Ginobili to drill his game-winner.
After two timeouts, Irving had a good look for the tying basket from the baseline, but his trey went halfway down and out and was corralled by the Spurs as the final buzzer sounded.
Aldridge scored 27 points and grabbed 10 rebounds for the Spurs (18-8), while Pau Gasol hit for 14 points and 11 rebounds for San Antonio.
Gay added 15 points, and Tony Parker and Ginobili tallied 11 each for the Spurs, who have won three straight and seven of their past eight games.


(Reuters) - Rory McIlroy has announced he will play at least seven events in early 2018 in a busy build-up to the U.S. Masters, where he will attempt to complete the grand slam of major titles in April.
McIlroy said on his website (www.rorymcilroy.com) that he would start his campaign with two European Tour events in the Middle East in January -- the Abu Dhabi HSBC Championship and Dubai Desert Classic.
The Northern Irishman will then switch his focus to the PGA Tour in the United States, where he will contest five tournaments in six weeks, starting at Pebble Beach in February.
His schedule, notably, includes no mention of the World Golf Championships-Mexico Championship, which falls in the middle of his busy stretch.
All of the events will be part of his preparation for the April 5-8 Masters at Augusta National, an event he needs to win to complete the modern grand slam of all four majors.
Former world number one McIlroy is currently having an extended break from competition after an injury-hampered 2017 during which he did not win a tournament anywhere in the world for the first time since 2008.
The four-times major winner also sacked long-time caddie J.P. Fitzgerald and replaced him with close friend Harry Diamond, who is expected to stay on the bag, according to media reports.
McIlroy, 28, has slipped to 10th in the world rankings.
He faces an important season as he attempts to keep pace with the wave of young talent such as Jordan Spieth, Justin Thomas and Brooks Koepka, who all won majors this year.


VERSAILLES, France (Reuters) - Britain’s Lewis Hamilton was handed the Formula One world championship trophy for the fourth time on Friday at a gala prizegiving ceremony in the sumptuous palace of France’s former monarchy.
With Formula One chairman Chase Carey looking on, newly-re-elected International Automobile Federation (FIA) president Jean Todt handed the 32-year-old Mercedes driver the silverware he won in Mexico with two races to spare.
“This has been an amazing year,” Hamilton told the audience of champions and FIA members gathered in the palace’s 18th century opera.
“I hope that next year’s an even better year for all of you. I know for me that I‘m going to try to do better.”
Hamilton won nine of 20 races in 2017 and set an all-time record of 72 career pole positions as well as scoring points in every grand prix.
Asked earlier for his highlight of the season, Hamilton singled out his home British Grand Prix at Silverstone because of the support he received after the ‘negativity’ surrounding his failure to take part in an earlier London event.
He had also told reporters that while he did not like going to award ceremonies, or being on stage, he enjoyed watching others succeed.
Mercedes won both championships for the fourth year in a row but team boss Toto Wolff said 2017 had been particularly difficult.
“We keep it now,” he said after being handed the constructors’ trophy by Carey.
Red Bull’s 20-year-old Dutch driver Max Verstappen beat a field that included Hamilton and his own Australian team mate Daniel Ricciardo to the ‘Personality of the Year” award for the third successive year.
The award is selected by permanently accredited media from all FIA championships.
“I always try to be honest and straightforward so I guess that gave me the personality again this year,” said the winner of two races in 2017.
“It was a hard season but I learnt a lot from it.”
Monaco’s Formula Two winner and 2018 Sauber F1 driver Charles Leclerc won the Rookie of the Year award while Finnish rally driver Esapekka Lappi won the ‘Action of the Year’ for a jump in the Rally of Portugal.
British teenager Billy Monger, who had his lower legs amputated after an horrific smash in a Formula Four race at Donington Park in April, was presented with an FIA president’s special award.
Monger, who has already returned to driving, walked out onto the stage on prosthetic legs to a resounding ovation.


(The Sports Xchange) - Japanese two-way star Shohei Ohtani has agreed to sign with the Los Angeles Angels, his agent said Friday.
The Angels won Ohtani’s services over competition from the Chicago Cubs, Texas Rangers, Los Angeles Dodgers, San Diego Padres, San Francisco Giants and Seattle Mariners.
Ohtani was put up for bid by the Pacific League’s Hippon Ham Fighters for the maximum $20 million posting fee. He had until Dec. 22 to agree to a major league deal.
The Angels had $2.315 million of international bonus pool money to spend toward Ohtani’s offer.
Ohtani, who throws right-handed and bats left-handed, plans to be both a pitcher and an outfielder with the Angels. He went 42-15 with a 2.52 ERA in five seasons as a pitcher in Japan, and batted .286 with 48 homers and a .500 slugging percentage.
The St. Louis Cardinals and San Francisco Giants both announced that they agreed to deals to acquire Miami Marlins slugger Giancarlo Stanton but the National League MVP declined to waive his no-trade clause.
The Cardinals and Giants both targeted Stanton from the time that new Marlins ownership -- led by Derek Jeter -- made it known they wanted to move Stanton to help slash payroll. There is a guaranteed $295 million remaining on Stanton’s contract.
The announcements came on the same day that news leaked that the New York Yankees are among Stanton’s preferred choices. He also likes the idea of playing for the Los Angeles Dodgers.
The Giants and the Cardinals were originally viewed as co-favorites to land Stanton.
The Detroit Tigers agreed to terms with right-hander pitcher Mike Fiers.
The deal is for one year and $6 million, according to reports.


(The Sports Xchange) - Cleveland Browns owner Jimmy Haslam introduced new general manager John Dorsey on Friday and said the team “absolutely” complied with the NFL’s Rooney Rule that requires NFL teams to interview at least one minority candidate.
The winless Browns shook up their front office Thursday, first firing executive vice president/general manager Sashi Brown, then hiring Dorsey as the new GM.
Dorsey made a significant move immediately. The Browns waived wide receiver Kenny Britt just one season into a four-year, $32.5 million contract signed in the offseason. Britt has 18 receptions for 233 yards and two touchdowns this season.
Dorsey was fired by the Kansas City Chiefs in June after a four-season run as general manager. He previously worked in the front offices of the Green Bay Packers and the Seattle Seahawks. He received a four-year contract from the Browns.
The quick move to hire Dorsey raised questions from John Wooten, head of the Fritz Pollard Alliance, over whether the Browns violated the Rooney Rule, which calls for at least one minority candidate to be interviewed for general manager and head coach openings. A league spokesperson confirmed to USA Today on Friday that the Browns did not violate the Rooney Rule.
New Orleans Saints coach Sean Payton is still fuming over what he called “extremely poor” officiating in Thursday night’s loss to the Atlanta Falcons.
The NFL is reviewing Payton’s behavior toward the officiating crew after he drew an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty late in the fourth quarter, according to ESPN. He has not talked to anyone yet in the league office following the Saints’ 20-17 loss.
Payton’s frustrations during the game carried over to Friday when he expanded on his issues with the officials during a teleconference.
“I thought the officiating was extremely poor,” Payton said. “Inconsistent would be a great way to put it, and I thought that had a lot to do with the way this game ended. It’s frustrating when you have a game, instead of it being decided on the field like it’s supposed to, you have a crew make so many mistakes in one event.”
The Saints lost six players to injuries during Thursday’s game, and quarterback Drew Brees sounded off after the game, saying the reason is “100 percent a product of playing on Thursday night.”
New Orleans lost running back Alvin Kamara and guard Senio Kelemete with concussions; linebacker A.J. Klein and safety Kenny Vaccaro with groin injuries; defensive end Trey Hendrickson with an ankle injury; and wide receiver Ted Ginn Jr. with an unspecified injury.
“It’s 100 percent a product of playing on Thursday night,” Brees told reporters after the game.
Former New York Giants running back Rashad Jennings announced he is retiring after eight seasons in the NFL.
The 32-year-old Jennings wrote on Twitter: “If good things don’t come to an end, then how can better things begin? I‘m truly humbled. I‘m truly excited... More to come on this. But for now, I just want to say THANK YOU. Thank you to everyone! #ShadHumbled.”
Jennings finished with 3,772 rushing yards, 1,469 receiving yards and 25 touchdowns in a career that began with the Jacksonville Jaguars in 2009 as a seven-round draft pick.
Detroit Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford is listed as questionable for Sunday’s game against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers due to a bruised right hand.
Stafford threw more passes in Friday’s practice after throwing none on Wednesday and only light tosses on Thursday.
Stafford has started 108 consecutive games, the third-longest current streak among NFL quarterbacks.
The Cincinnati Bengals ruled out six starters for Sunday’s game against the Chicago Bears, including five on defense.
In Monday night’s physical 23-20 loss against the Pittsburgh Steelers, linebacker Vontaze Burfict, cornerback Dre Kirkpatrick and running back Joe Mixon all sustained concussions, while cornerback Adam Jones injured his groin in the game.
Linebacker Nick Vigil (ankle) and safety Shawn Williams (hamstring) had injuries prior to Monday night’s game and also were ruled this week.
Arizona Cardinals running back Adrian Peterson will miss Sunday’s game against the Tennessee Titans due to a neck injury, coach Bruce Arians told reporters.
It will be the second straight game Peterson has missed.
Oakland Raiders receiver Amari Cooper returned to practice on Friday and is listed as questionable for Sunday’s game against the Kansas City Chiefs.


(Reuters) - Tommy Horton, a two-times Ryder Cup player and a stalwart of the European Tour, has died at the age of 76.
Horton died in hospital shortly after falling ill on Thursday, the European Tour said on Friday.
The Briton won four times on the European Tour and represented Great Britain and Ireland against the United States in the 1975 and 1977 Ryder Cups.
The Englishman’s best finish in a major was equal fifth at the 1976 British Open won by Johnny Miller.


TORONTO (Reuters - Ever since David Beckham ended his playing career in 2013 it has become a Major League Soccer tradition that commissioner Don Garber is asked during his annual state of the league address about the former-England captain’s effort to bring a franchise to Miami.
With the league pushing ahead with expansion plans and set to decide on two new franchises at meetings in New York next week, Garber was again quizzed on Friday about the status of a team, which seems no closer to taking the pitch than it was nearly four years ago when he began the pursuit.
This season Atlanta and Minnesota joined MLS and next year LAFC will become the league’s 23rd franchise.
The original timeline has long had Miami penciled in as the league’s 24th club but Garber conceded on Friday that one of the two franchises from Detroit, Cincinnati, Sacramento and Nashville being looked at for expansion could step to the front of the line.
”It’s conceivable that could  happen,“ said Garber, ahead of Saturday’s MLS Cup final between Toronto FC and Seattle Sounders. ”This is the most complicated situation in any market we have experienced at least in my 18 years.
”Part of it has been complicated by the Miami market, generally it is a difficult sports market. The second part of that is that it is one of the fastest growing value markets as leads to their real estate.
“Third it is their political structure, there is a variety of different mayors all for the same space.”
The major stumbling block for Miami Beckham United, the team’s working title, has been finding financing and land for a stadium.
After failed attempts to secure land in the downtown waterfront area the Beckham group settled on the Overtown neighborhood of Miami as the site for a 25,000-seat soccer specific stadium.
In June the Beckham group acquired a parcel of land needed for their project and Garber said on Friday that the proposed franchise had cleared another hurdle when an appeal that could have blocked progress was turned down.
“We’ve needed to get a finalization of the land, the lawsuit on that land was just settled when the appeal was turned down last week and we  have been working hard to try to find a local owner for David Beckham,” said Garber.
According to Forbes the average price of a MLS franchise is currently set at $225 million.
Beckham, however, is getting a major discount.
As part of the blockbuster deal that lured Beckham from Europe to the Los Angeles Galaxy in 2007 the league gave the option to purchase a franchise for $25 million.
“I feel confident that it will come together,” said Garber. “I continue to say we want Miami in the league, it is a large market, a gateway city there is a lot of value to us having a team down there and I am confident we will get something done.”


CLEVELAND (Reuters) - Ohio’s threatened lawsuit to prevent a Major League Soccer (MLS) team from leaving the state is unlikely to be successful in court, legal experts say.
State Attorney General Mike DeWine said on Thursday that his office is prepared to use a never-before-applied law to block Anthony Precourt, majority owner of the Columbus Crew, from moving the MLS franchise to Austin, Texas.
Legal experts say such an effort would likely violate federal commerce law.
The federal government, not states, has exclusive rights to “regulate national business such as a sports leagues,” Matt Mitten, executive director of National Sports Law Institute of Marquette University Law School, said in a telephone interview late on Thursday.
“The U.S. Constitution gives the Congress exclusive authority to regulate interstate commerce,” he added.
In a statement on Thursday, team spokesman Tim Miller said the team “has great respect for the office of the Ohio attorney general, however, there is nothing to address as Crew SC prepares for the 2018 season.”
The Ohio statute, passed the year after the 1995 announcement of the move of the National Football League’s Cleveland Browns to Baltimore, requires any professional team that receives financial support from the state to give at least six months’ advance notice before moving and to allow the city or local individuals the opportunity to purchase the team before any move.
Precourt announced the possible Crew move in an October letter, citing a “growing disparity in attendance and corporate support compared to (the team‘s) MLS peers and other mid-sized markets.”
Much like the Browns’ move, the suggestion has left fans and local officials shocked and angry.
Columbus Mayor Andrew Ginther responded to the possible move with an offer of a new stadium, but remained frustrated at the lack of response from team officials.
“Great American cities do not get into bidding wars over sports teams to benefit private owners,” he said in a statement in November.
But Ginther may have few options to keep the Crew beyond financial incentives.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to use legal means to force a sports team to remain in a city once its lease with a host city has expired, according to Mark Conrad, director of the sports business program at Fordham University’s Gabelli School of Business.“Even if the law was constitutional, it is wholly impractical and unlikely to prevent a team from relocating,” Conrad wrote in an email on Friday.
“The key to keeping a team at a facility is the lease. Once it expires, there is little the owner can do to force the team (or any business) to stay,” he added.
Other host cities and officials have tried a number of legal efforts over the years to stop professional sports teams from moving, but without success, Mitten said.
“It is basically a ‘Hail Mary,'” Mitten said of the threat.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian Olympic Committee President Alexander Zhukov said competitions should be organized for Russian athletes who decide not to compete at the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Games, R-Sport news agency reported on Friday.
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) on Tuesday banned Russia from the Pyeongchang Games after evidence emerged of an “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of the anti-doping system, but left the door open for clean athletes to compete as neutrals.
“We need to hold alternative competitions for the athletes who decide not to go to the Olympic Games,” R-Sport quoted Zhukov as saying. “But we also need to support those who decide to go.”
Zhukov, who did not provide further detail about the possible nature of those competitions, added that it was “unacceptable” to accuse Russian athletes who decide to compete at the Olympics of being unpatriotic.
President Vladimir Putin said this week that Russia would not prevent athletes from competing at the Games if they wanted to, damping down calls by some Russians for the country to boycott.
Russia is expected to make a final decision on its stance regarding the IOC ban at a meeting of the country’s Olympic authorities next week.
Russian authorities have vehemently denied any state support for doping and have pledged to co-operate with international sports bodies to counter the use of banned performance-enhancing drugs.
The speaker of the Russian parliament, Vyacheslav Volodin, told lawmakers earlier on Friday that they should not attend the Pyeongchang Games if Russian athletes are not competing under the country’s flag, local news agencies reported.
In the weeks ahead of Tuesday’s IOC decision, more than 20 Russian athletes who competed at the 2014 Sochi Games were banned for life from the Olympics for having allegedly violated anti-doping rules.
Russia’s athletics federation, Paralympic Committee and anti-doping agency RUSADA remain suspended over doping scandals.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian lawmakers should not attend the 2018 Pyeongchang Olympics to support athletes unless they are competing under the Russian flag, the Interfax news agency quoted Russian parliament speaker Vyacheslav Volodin as saying on Friday.
“If we cannot ensure the possibility of our athletes competing under our flag, in the name of our country, we have nothing to do there,” Interfax quoted Volodin as telling lawmakers in parliament.
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) banned Russia on Tuesday from next year’s Winter Games after evidence emerged of an “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of the anti-doping system.
The door was left open, however, for Russians to compete as neutrals as long as they satisfy conditions that show they have a doping-free background.


NAGOYA, Japan (Reuters) - Nathan Chen of the United States overcame an error-filled program including a fall to win the men’s Grand Prix Final on Friday, beating hometown favorite Shoma Uno by half a point.
He took 183.19 in the free skate for a total of 286.51 to Uno’s 286.05.
“I‘m extremely honored to be Grand Prix champion,” Chen said after an ambitious routine to “Mao’s Last Dancer” that included attempts to make at least five quadruple jumps.
Uno, who won the free skate with 184.50, fell on his first quad loop and pulled a face at the end of his routine. Russian Mikhail Kolyada finished third.
Earlier, Canada’s Kaetlyn Osmond took a surprise lead in the short program in the women’s final but was less that half a point ahead of Russian teenager Alina Zagitova.
Osmond hit a seasonal best with 77.04 after her sultry, sassy routine to “Sous le Ciel de Paris” that had the audience at the packed arena in the central Japanese city of Nagoya clapping along.
“Overall, I‘m really happy,” the 22-year-old Osmond told a news conference.
“I’ve been working really hard on my free program, especially in the last few weeks,” she added.
Zagitova, making her Grand Prix Final debut at the age of 15, skated a routine at turns lyrical and powerful to “Black Swan” but a mistake on a jump kept her score at 76.27.
“I was nervous first of all, but happy that I could win out over my nervousness,” she said.
Japan’s Satoko Miyahara was third on her comeback after an 11-month absence due to a hip injury.


(Reuters) - Peru’s hopes at next year’s World Cup finals were dealt a huge blow when captain and all-time record goalscorer Paolo Guerrero was banned for one year on Friday after failing an anti-doping test for cocaine.
The 33-year-old striker, who plays for Flamengo in Brazil, had been provisionally suspended by world governing body FIFA after the drug, classified as a stimulant, was found in his system after Peru’s 0-0 draw away to Argentina in a World Cup qualifier in October.
“The player tested positive for cocaine metabolite benzoylecgonine, a substance included in WADA’s 2017 Prohibited List under the class ‘S6. Stimulants’, following a doping control test conducted after the match,” FIFA said in a statement.
“By testing positive for a prohibited substance, the player has violated article 6 of the FIFA Anti-Doping Regulations and, as such, contravened article 63 of the FIFA Disciplinary Code.”
Peru qualified for the World Cup finals for the first time since 1982 by beating New Zealand in a two-legged playoff. Guerrero missed both those matches.
His ban will be back-dated to Nov. 3 and will apply to international, domestic and official friendly fixtures.
Guerrero, who used to play for German club Bayern Munich, made his international debut in 2004 and has 83 caps, scoring 32 goals.
He helped Peru finish third in the 2011 and 2015 Copa Americas and was leading scorer in both tournaments.
He also helped Brazilian club Corinthians win FIFA’s World Club Cup in 2012, scoring the winning goal in the final against Premier League side Chelsea.
He joined Flamengo in 2015 and has been prolific in front of goal, scoring 42 goals for the Rio de Janeiro club.


LONDON (Reuters) - Spaniards Rafael Nadal and Garbine Muguruza were named as the International Tennis Federation (ITF) world champions on Friday - the first time in 19 years the awards have gone to players from the same country.
Nadal, who claimed the honor for the third time, made a sensational comeback from an injury-plagued 2016, winning a 10th French Open title and the U.S. Open to take his grand slam haul to 16, three behind Roger Federer who also won two of the year’s majors after returning from injury.
The 31-year-old Mallorcan ended the year as world number one, although he pulled out of the season-ending ATP Finals in London due to a knee injury.
Muguruza won the ITF award for the first time after capturing the Wimbledon title and ascending to the world number one ranking for the first time.
She ended the year ranked number two behind Romania’s Simona Halep who is still chasing a first grand slam title.
The last time two players from the same country scooped the awards was in 1998 when Americans Pete Sampras and Lindsay Davenport took the honors.
Lukasz Kubot of Poland and Marcelo Melo of Brazil won the men’s doubles award while Chan Yun-Jan of Chinese Taipei and the recently-retired Martina Hingis of Switzerland took the women’s prize.


(Reuters) - Canadian Georges St-Pierre has vacated the UFC middleweight title he won on his recent return to the octagon as the recent upheaval in the sport continued.
Australian Robert Whittaker was installed as the new champion after the latest of a number of title vacations and the awarding of interim belts.
Ireland’s two-division champion Conor McGregor was stripped of the UFC featherweight strap last year and Tony Ferguson won the interim title in the lightweight division where McGregor still holds the belt.
“Out of respect to the athletes and the sport, I don’t want to hold up the division,” St-Pierre said in a statement, citing a health issue.
The UFC, widely recognized as the premier MMA organization, announced that the 26-year-old Whittaker, Australia’s first UFC champion, will make his first defense of the title against American Luke Rockhold in Perth next year.


TOKYO (Reuters) - Born and raised in Japan, three North Korean soccer players are expecting to face boos from the home crowd in a match that comes less than two weeks after the latest North Korean test missile splashed into the Sea of Japan.
An Byong Jun, Kim Song Gi and Lee Yong Jick, who play their club soccer for J League division 2 sides, will represent North Korea when they take on Japan in Tokyo on Saturday in the final round of the East Asian Football Championship.
The sporting contest is being held with the world still on edge after the North heightened alarm in South Korea, Japan and the United States by test firing an intercontinental ballistic missile on Nov. 29 that appeared to demonstrate increasing range.
North Korea has test-fired missiles over the northern Japanese island of Hokkaido twice earlier this year and has threatened to sink Japan into the sea with a nuclear bomb.
Unsurprisingly, Kim, a 29-year-old central defender, who hails from Hyogo prefecture in western Japan and plays his club soccer for Machida Zelvia in Tokyo, expects a hostile reception from Japanese supporters.
“Bring on the booing,” said Kim. “Being booed actually gets me fired up. I was brought up that way and it doesn’t really bother me.”
He is eager to avenge a one-nil loss when he first played against Japan for North Korea six years ago.
Kim, An and Lee all took up soccer when they were children attending Pyongyang-affiliated schools in Japan and saw playing as a North Korean international as the path to the highest level.
“Soccer was all I thought about when I was a kid and it was my dream to play for North Korea,” Kim said. “My biggest goal now is to go to the World Cup.”
Japanese nationality is inherited through parents, not place of birth, meaning the three players of North Korean descent are considered foreigners and ineligible to play for Japan’s national team.
‘COMPLICATED’
The players’ status as permanent residents in Japan is a throwback to the complex and conflicted relationship between the countries.
Many Koreans were forced to move to Japan during its occupation of the Korean peninsula before and during World War Two, and suffered discrimination.
They and their descendants are now eligible to become naturalized Japanese citizens, but many are loath to do so because that would involve giving up their Korean nationality and suffering a perceived loss of cultural identity.
There were about 339,000 people with special permanent resident status - mostly those with Korean or Taiwanese ancestry - living in Japan last year, government data shows.
“I’ve never thought of taking Japanese citizenship,” said Kim. “My soul is 100 percent North Korean.”
Lee, a 26-year-old Osaka native playing his first match against Japan, said he wasn’t sure how the fans would react, noting that the team had expected boos when they played in South Korea but received applause instead.
“It’s complicated,” said the Kamatamare Sanuki defender, who switches to midfield for North Korea.
“I hope we’re treated the same as other teams that play against Japan. To be honest I hope we don’t get booed.”
Regarding political tensions, he said that things might seem bad looking only at the news in Japan but that he and his teammates had also seen a good side to North Korea on their trips to Pyongyang, on school trips and for training camp.
An, who will also be playing his first match against Japan, said he was looking forward to playing in his hometown Tokyo and expected a good turnout from ethnic Korean fans.
He said he had a lot of J League friends on the Japanese squad with whom he exchanges text messages and he was looking forward to a good match regardless of international tensions.
“Soccer’s great because teams can play fair and square and those kind of politics don’t matter,” said the 27-year-old Roasso Kumamoto forward.
“All I want to do is go out and represent my country as a soccer player.”
Japan and North Korea last met in 2015, at the East Asia Football Championship in China, where North Korea prevailed 2-1.
This year’s men’s tournament, which also features China and South Korea, runs Dec. 9-16. The women’s tournament, comprising the same countries, is being held Dec. 8-15.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Thursday’s National Hockey League games:
Bruins 6, Coyotes 1
David Backes, who recently made a quicker-than-expected return from colon surgery, scored his first two goals of the season in the second period, and the Boston Bruins earned their 12th straight win over Arizona with a 6-1 rout of the Coyotes on Thursday night.
Backes was playing his fourth game since returning after missing a month recovering from being diagnosed with diverticulitis and the subsequent surgery.
Brad Marchand, David Krejci, Danton Heinen and Anders Bjork also scored for the Bruins.
Christian Dvorak scored his first goal in 10 games for the Coyotes.
Penguins 4, Islanders 3 (OT)
Matt Hunwick scored at 1:29 of overtime to give Pittsburgh a win over New York.
The Penguins’ Jake Guentzel scored in the first period, and Jordan Eberle tied it in the second for the Islanders. After Phil Kessel and Riley Sheahan scored 32 seconds apart in the third period for a 3-1 Penguins lead, New York’s Mathew Barzal and Brock Nelson answered for a tie.
Kris Letang added two assists for the Penguins.
Lightning 5, Avalanche 2
Tampa Bay pulled away with a power-play goal in the third, its eighth straight game with at least one goal with the man advantage, in a victory over Colorado.
Alex Killorn got his third goal of the season and his second in the last 25 games. Lightning center Steven Stamkos had a goal and two assists, moving ahead of teammate Nikita Kucherov for the NHL lead with 41 points.
Backup goalie Peter Budaj picked up his second win in five starts this season, finishing with 28 saves, including 14 in the final period. Brayden Point, Vladislav Namestnikov and Chris Kunitz also scored for the Lightning.
Gabriel Landeskog, fresh off a four-game suspension, and Erik Johnson had the Avalanche goals.
Flames 3, Canadiens 2 (OT)
Sean Monahan scored his second goal of the game at 1:14 of overtime to give Calgary a win against Montreal, ending a three-game losing streak.
Garnet Hathaway scored his first of the season for the Flames. Calgary goaltender David Rittich, making the second start of his career, made 35 saves.
Daniel Carr (second goal of the season) and Phillip Danault (fifth) scored for the Canadiens, and Carey Price made 34 saves.
Panthers 6, Jets 4
Florida, despite losing star center Aleksander Barkov to an injury, rallied to defeat Winnipeg.
With Barkov out, fourth-line left winger Micheal Haley became the improbable hero. He scored the tiebreaking goal on a deflection with 9:58 left in the third period as the Panthers snapped a three-game losing streak.
Florida also got two goals from Vincent Trocheck and one each from Mark Pysyk, Aaron Ekblad and Denis Malgin. The Jets got one goal and two assists from Patrik Laine as well as scores from Nikolaj Ehlers, Adam Lowry and Blake Wheeler.
Blues 3, Stars 0
Jake Allen stopped 29 shots, and St. Louis got power-play goals from Brayden Schenn and Colton Parayko in a win over Dallas.
Vladimir Tarasenko’s empty-net goal capped the scoring for the Blues.
Allen recorded his first shutout of the season and 16th of his career to extend the Blues’ home winning streak over the Stars to seven consecutive games in the regular season. It was Allen’s third career shutout in 11 games against the Stars.
Sharks 5, Hurricanes 4 (OT)
Brent Burns scored his second goal of the season 22 seconds into overtime as San Jose beat Carolina.
The Sharks got power-play goals from Logan Couture and Joe Thornton and short-handed goals from Melker Karlsson and Barclay Goodrow. Thornton had a goal and two assists to give him 1,410 NHL points, good for 19th place in NHL history.
Sebastian Aho scored two goals, and Victor Rask and Jeff Skinner scored one goal each for the Hurricanes.
Kings 4, Senators 3 (OT)
Drew Doughty scored 32 seconds into overtime as Los Angeles defeated Ottawa for its seventh consecutive win.
Tanner Pearson, Alex Iafallo and Dustin Brown registered the other Kings goals, and Darcy Kuemper made 37 saves.
The Senators lost their third straight game and 10th in their past 11 (1-9-1). Matt Duchene, Jean-Gabriel and Ryan Dzingel registered goals. Mike Condon made 34 saves.
Flyers 4, Canucks 1
Shayne Gostisbehere and Claude Giroux had a goal and an assist each as Philadelphia defeated Vancouver to extend its winning streak to three games.
Michael Raffl and Wayne Simmonds, into an empty net, also scored for Flyers, and Jakub Voracek notched three assists. Brock Boeser scored for the Canucks, who saw their three-game win streak end.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Thursday’s National Basketball Association games:
Nets 100, Thunder 95
Caris LeVert recorded his first career double-double with 21 points and 10 assists as the Brooklyn Nets rallied from a 16-point deficit and beat the Oklahoma City Thunder 100-95 on Thursday at Ciudad de Mexico Arena.
On the first anniversary of his NBA debut, LeVert saw extensive time at point guard because of Spencer Dinwiddie’s foul trouble. In 30 minutes, Levert shot 6-of-10 and also played effective defense on Russell Westbrook down the stretch.
Westbrook finished with 31 points but shot 10-of-27 from the field. He scored only five points in the fourth quarter and was also forced into a turnover by LeVert with 2:11 remaining.
Oklahoma City missed three consecutive shots in a span of seven seconds, and LeVert iced Brooklyn’s fourth win in six games by hitting four foul shots in the final 18 seconds.
Lakers 107, 76ers 104
Brandon Ingram hit a three-pointer with eight-tenths of a second left to lift Los Angeles over Philadelphia.
Ingram led the Lakers with 21 points. Julius Randle and Jordan Clarkson added 16 apiece off the bench for Los Angeles, which snapped a five-game losing streak.
Joel Embiid had 33 points to lead the 76ers, who dropped their second straight and their third in four games.
Wizards 109, Suns 99
Bradley Beal continued his offensive surge with 34 points, and Washington won back-to-back games for the first time in almost a month with a victory over Phoenix.
Beal, who had a career-high 51 points in a win at Portland on Tuesday and 40 against the Suns earlier this year, is carrying the offensive load with John Wall (knee) out for a seventh straight game.
Forward Markieff Morris added 21 points and the Wizards won back-to-back games for the first time since winning four straight from Nov. 9-15. The Suns got 23 points from TJ Warren in their first game without leading scorer Devin Booker (adductor strain).
Rockets 112, Jazz 101
James Harden scored 29 points and Ryan Anderson added 23 to lead Houston past Utah.
Chris Paul added 18 points, 13 assists and nine rebounds for the Rockets. Houston earned its eighth straight victory and won for the 14th time in 15 games.
The Rockets made 18 three-pointers, giving them a total of 41 in two games against the Jazz this season.


(The Sports Xchange) - Atlanta linebacker Deion Jones intercepted a Drew Brees pass in the end zone with less than two minutes remaining to preserve the NFC South champion Falcons’ 20-17 victory over the New Orleans Saints on Thursday.
Matt Bryant provided the winning margin on a 52-yard field goal with just under four minutes on the clock as the Falcons (8-5) stayed in with a chance of defending their divisional crown by moving within a game of the Saints (9-4).
After Jones’ interception, the Falcons were able to run out the clock with the help of an unsportsmanlike-conduct penalty on Saints coach Sean Payton.
The Falcons won despite three interceptions by Matt Ryan, who finished 15-of-27 for 221 yards and a touchdown. Brees completed 26-of-35 passes for 271 yards and two touchdowns but threw the costly interception.
Brees had to carry more of the load for the Saints after versatile rookie running back Alvin Kamara sustained a concussion on the game’s first series.
The Falcons forced a tie with just under 10 minutes left on an eight-yard pass from Ryan to Mohamed Sanu. The play capped an 11-play, 69-yard drive that took more than seven minutes.
Ryan, who was picked off by Marshon Lattimore at the end of the first half had his first pass in the second intercepted by Chris Banjo. The Saints cashed the turnover in on a one-yard scoring pass from Brees to Michael Thomas for a 17-10 lead.
Then Ryan was picked off for the third time in four throws when Marcus Williams grabbed a pass that should not have been thrown in the end zone with Julio Jones well covered.
The first half ended in a 10-10 tie when a 47-yard field goal by Wil Lutz was nullified by an illegal formation and the Saints did not get another play with time expired.
Earlier in the second quarter, the Falcons consumed more than eight minutes in going 90 yards in 15 plays, with Devonta Freeman scoring from the one-yard line, to go ahead.
The Saints answered quickly, though, as Brees connected with Tommylee Lewis for a 26-yard touchdown.
The Saints lost Kamara on the game’s opening drive, which ended with a 34-yard field goal by Lutz that was matched by a 28-yard field goal by Bryant.
Kamara, who came in with 1,220 yards from scrimmage and 11 touchdowns, was hurt on a helmet-to-helmet hit by linebacker De‘Vondre Campbell while being dropped for a four-yard loss on a pass from Brees.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Mutko, who was banned for life from the Olympics this week, insisted on Thursday there was no state-backed doping in Russia and slammed the decision to exclude Russia from the 2018 Winter Games.
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) said on Tuesday it was acting on evidence of “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of doping procedures, but left the door open for Russians to compete as neutrals at the Pyeongchang Games in February if they can demonstrate a doping-free record.
“Russia has never encouraged doping,” said Mutko, who was sports minister when Russia hosted the last Winter Olympics.
“There could not have been a (state-run) doping program. An athlete is monitored 365 days a year. (Doping control officers) can show up any time and take a sample,” R-Sport news agency quoted Mutko as saying.
Mutko said earlier on Thursday that he was ready to resign over the Olympic ban if it was deemed necessary. Mutko said the same thing before the 2016 Rio Olympics when Russia’s participation was in limbo over allegations of state-sponsored doping, and did not resign.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Wednesday declined to say whether officials involved in organizing the 2014 Sochi Games, including Mutko, would be punished. He said such reprimands were not a priority.
Echoing earlier comments by President Vladimir Putin, Mutko said the Russian authorities will support athletes who wish to compete at the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Games as neutrals. But he called the IOC ban “discriminatory”.
Russian authorities have vehemently denied any state support for doping and pledged to cooperate with international sports authorities to counter the use of banned performance-enhancing drugs.
But a report commissioned by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) last year found that more than 1,000 Russian competitors in over 30 sports were involved in a conspiracy to conceal positive drug tests over a period of five years.
The country’s athletics federation and anti-doping agency were suspended over a separate WADA report in 2015 containing evidence of state-backed doping in track and field.
In the weeks before the IOC decision, more than 20 Russian athletes who competed at the Sochi Games were handed Olympic life bans for alleged doping offences.
The bans came as the result of an IOC investigation into allegations of state-backed doping among Russian competitors and sample tampering by laboratory and security officials at Sochi.
Russia’s athletics federation and Paralympic Committee remain suspended from international competition over doping scandals, along with its anti-doping agency, RUSADA.


(Reuters) - German teenager Max Burkhart has died of injuries sustained in a crash during a Nor Am Cup race in Lake Louise, Alpine Canada said in statement.
Burkhart crashed into safety netting on Tuesday and was airlifted off the course and taken to Foothills hospital in Calgary.
The 17-year-old skier died from his injuries on Wednesday, the International Ski Federation confirmed on its website on Thursday.
“Alpine Canada and Alberta Alpine are devastated about this tragic loss of life and sends its deepest condolences to his family and team mates. Alpine Canada and Alberta Alpine encourage the ski family around the world to support the athletes’ family and team mate through this difficult time,” said Alpine Canada in a statement.
The race was run on the same hill used for the first World Cup women’s downhills of the season on Friday and Saturday that also produced several crashes, including one by American Lindsey Vonn, who careened into three sets of safety netting before coming to stop.
The most successful women’s skier of all-time with 77 career wins, including 18 at the Canadian resort, laid motionless but eventually got up and skied to the bottom of the course uninjured.
Burkhart’s death comes soon after another tragedy.
French downhiller David Poisson was killed in a training run crash at nearby Nakiska on Nov. 13 as he prepared for the first men’s World Cup downhill of the season.


SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korea’s winter Olympics organizers have worries other than a ban on Russia competing, poor ticket sales and tensions over North Korea. They fear it may be too cold.
The Pyeongchang Games in February may feel like the coldest Olympics in at least three decades because the main stadium lacks a roof, leaving an estimated 35,000 spectators, including world leaders, exposed to extreme cold for the opening ceremony.
The organizing committee’s concerns are contained in an internal document, seen by Reuters, which expects biting winds to make conditions inside the open-air stadium at the start of the Games seem like minus 14 degrees Celsius.
That “feels-like” temperature is lower than the minus 11 degrees recorded at the 1994 Lillehammer Games in Norway, whose stadium also lacked a roof and is so far the coldest Olympics for which such data is available, the internal document shows. Reuters could not find comparable data for earlier Games.
South Korea, which built Pyeongchang’s $58 million stadium without a roof to save time and money, plans a range of measures at opening and closing ceremonies to prevent people suffering hypothermia -- from distributing hot packs and blankets to speeding up security checks, the internal document shows.
Organizers also plan to use audience participation during pre-ceremony entertainment to help keep spectators warm, the document says without giving details.
Graphic: Winter Olympics temperatures - here%20WEATHER-01.jpg
After the news last month that six people had reported hypothermia during a pop concert at the stadium, organizers are also considering installing more large windshields around the stadium, a sports ministry official said.
“These are stopgap measures,” said Shim Ki-joon, a ruling-party lawmaker, who sits on a parliamentary special committee set up to support the Games.
“This is a very serious issue. This is creating a headache to not only the organizers but the presidential office, which sent officials to the venue to figure out ways to fight the cold,” he told Reuters.
A presidential spokesman declined to comment on the matter.
President Moon Jae-in has invited Chinese President Xi Jinping and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to the Games, among other VIPs. U.S. President Donald Trump has committed to sending a “high-level” delegation, the White House has said.
Some 160 VIPs will be offered thicker and bigger blankets than those given to other spectators, a committee official said.
The opening and closing ceremonies will both take place in the evening, on Feb. 9 and Feb. 25 respectively. Spectators will stay outdoors for four to five hours on each occasion.
In Lillehammer in 1994, the ceremonies were held outdoors and organizers scrapped the tradition of releasing doves, a symbol of peace, because they worried the birds might suffer. Instead, the Norwegians released white dove-shaped balloons.
The International Olympics Committee discussed Pyeongchang’s cold weather at its executive board meeting this week, Olympic Games Executive Director Christophe Dubi told a news conference.
“It is not something we have not encountered in the past,” Dubi said on Wednesday, citing Lillehammer as well as the Salt Lake City Games in 2002.
“(Organizers) have installed windscreens and (provided) blankets and there will be plenty of information. In the last K-pop concert people were not well informed of how cold it could get.”
The cold weather is at least a manageable problem for the organizers. Its other headaches are less so.
Political tensions with North Korea and China have chilled foreign interest in the Pyeongchang Games, which open just 80 km (50 miles) from the world’s most heavily fortified border.
As of Dec. 5, ticket sales totaled 578,000, or 54 percent of target, though an organizer said that was similar to sales at a similar point ahead of the Sochi Games in Russia in 2014.
The International Olympic Committee has also banned Russia, which finished top of the medals table at Sochi, from Pyeongchang, citing evidence of state-sponsored, systematic cheating of doping controls.
Pyeongchang organizers had urged South Korea to equip the stadium with a roof and heating, but this was rejected due to costs and concerns over whether the structure would support a roof. The temporary arena is to be dismantled after the Games.
The culture and finance ministries, both involved in approving construction costs, did not respond to requests for comment.
“The cold could ruin the entire opening party. The fate of the event is down to the mother nature,” said ruling party lawmaker Yeom Dong-yeol at the Pyeongchang parliamentary committee, who was born and raised in the town.


(Reuters) - U.S. Masters champion Sergio Garcia was named the European Tour’s Golfer of the Year for the first time on Thursday, capping an excellent year in which he also triumphed in the Dubai Desert Classic and the Andalucia Valderrama Masters.
The 37-year-old, who beat Englishman Justin Rose in a playoff back in April to capture his maiden major in Augusta, is the third Spaniard to win the award after Seve Ballesteros and Jose Maria Olazabal.
”This is an amazing honour,“ Garcia said in a news release. ”I think both on and off the golf course it has been a unique and unbelievable year, and one that I will definitely remember my whole life.
“I am so happy to receive this award...against the caliber of players that were in contention, (it) is incredible. Tommy (Fleetwood), Justin, Tyrrell (Hatton) and Jon (Rahm) are all amazing players, and all had unbelievable years themselves.”
Garcia, who came fourth in the Race to Dubai Rankings, won his first European Tour title in three seasons when he finished three shots clear of Henrik Stenson at the Dubai Desert Classic in February.
Two months later, he claimed the 13th European Tour title of his career in Augusta, before winning again on home soil at the Andalucia Valderrama Masters, an event hosted by his own foundation.
“Sergio Garcia had the season of his life, which is saying a lot given the glittering nature of his long career,” said Iain Carter, chairman of the Association of Golf Writers and a member of the panel that decided the winner.
“No other player in consideration matched his tally of three wins and, of course, one of those was the Masters. It was a hugely popular triumph.”


NAGOYA, Japan (Reuters) - Nathan Chen of the United States edged Japan’s Shoma Uno in the men’s short program to take the lead at the Grand Prix final on Thursday, setting up a showdown between the two jumping powerhouses two months before the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics.
On the first day of the competition, often seen as a key step on the road to the Olympics, Chen took 103.32 points for his dynamic, clean routine, while Uno, performing in his hometown of Nagoya in central Japan, had an unusual fall on a triple axel and ended up with 101.51 points.
Chen pulled off a quad lutz and triple toeloop at the start of his program to “Nemesis,” by Benjamin Clementine, then a quad flip and triple axel, after which he appeared to pump his fists briefly.
“I‘m very happy tonight,” Chen told reporters. “I made a couple of mistakes in the landing of the quads, but my triple axel was better than at Skate America so I‘m happy with that.”
Uno, skating to the “Winter” section of Antonin Vivaldi’s “Four Seasons,” executed a clean quad flip followed by a quad toeloop and triple toeloop that had the audience cheering, but fell on a late triple axel.
“I made a new type of mistake today, the triple axel is a jump I know I can land,” Uno said, but added he still felt he “did everything I could.”
“I’ll make efforts to put plenty of jumps I can do into my routine tomorrow.”
Russia’s Mikhail Kolyada was third with 99.22 points two days after the International Olympic Committee (IOC) banned his country from next year’s Games in South Korea for “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of the anti-doping system.
However, President Vladimir Putin and other Russian officials have said they won’t stand in the way of their athletes taking part in Pyeongchang as neutrals.
The IOC said Russians could compete at the Feb. 9-25 Games as an “Olympic Athlete of Russia” if they satisfy strict conditions that show they have a doping-free background.
Asked about the situation, Kolyada said: “I have not been reading the news, I have tried to stay away from that, because it is distracting. The main thing obviously is to get to the Olympic games.”
He later told a news conference: “If you think of what Russia’s done, I think the decision is reasonable.”
In the pairs, Germany’s Aljona Savchenko and Bruno Massot, facing their first Olympics together, took a surprise lead in the short program on 79.43 points with an entertaining routine to “That Man” by Cara Emerald which got a standing ovation.
The Chinese pair of Wenjing Sui and Cong Han, strong favorites going into Pyeongchang, were third after Han fell on their first jump and are nearly four points off the lead.
French ice dancers Gabriella Papadakis and Guillaume Cizeron (82.07) took a slender lead in the short dance over Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir of Canada (81.53). Maia and Alex Shibutani of the United States were third with 78.09.


LONDON (Reuters) - Formula One team bosses have voted Lewis Hamilton as the sport’s top driver for the fourth year in a row but Mercedes team mate Valtteri Bottas slipped to 10th place in the rankings.
The poll, published by motorsport.com on Thursday, put four times world champion Hamilton far ahead of closest rival Max Verstappen.
Bottas, winner of three races this year after joining as now-retired 2016 world champion Nico Rosberg’s replacement, was listed in 10th place after bosses awarded points according to the regular F1 scoring system.
That represented a drop of one place on where Bottas had been with Williams in 2016.
Hamilton scored 233 out of a maximum 250, with Red Bull’s Verstappen on 143. Ferrari’s 2017 championship runner-up Sebastian Vettel, also a four times champion, was third and Red Bull’s Daniel Ricciardo fourth.
Force India’s Mexican Sergio Perez dropped out of the top 10 entirely but his French team mate Esteban Ocon made his entry in fifth place, one ahead of McLaren’s double world champion Fernando Alonso.
Ferrari’s Kimi Raikkonen and Renault’s Carlos Sainz tied in seventh place with Renault’s Nico Hulkenberg a new entry at ninth.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Wednesday’s National Hockey League games:
Capitals 6, Blackhawks 2
Alexander Ovechkin scored his league-leading 21st goal, Nicklas Backstrom ended a 21-game goal-scoring drought, and Tom Wilson scored twice as the Washington Capitals cruised to a 6-2 victory over the sliding Chicago Blackhawks on Wednesday.
Brett Connolly and Evgeny Kuznetsov also scored for the Capitals, who have won six of seven to move into a tie for second place in the Metropolitan Division.
Lance Bouma and Jonathan Toews scored for Chicago.
Maple Leafs 2, Flames 1 (SO)
Frederik Andersen made 47 saves, and William Nylander scored the decisive goal in a shootout as Toronto defeated Calgary.
Mark Giordano scored for the Flames in regulation, and Morgan Rielly replied for the Maple Leafs.
Mike Smith made 28 saves for Calgary.
Ducks 3, Senators 0
Ryan Miller made 29 saves to earn his 40th career shutout, and Adam Henrique registered two goals as Anaheim defeated Ottawa.
The Ducks broke a three-game losing streak (0-1-2) by taking the opener of a three-game homestand. Anaheim has defeated the Senators in seven of the past nine meetings played at Honda Center.
Ottawa lost its second straight game to start a season-high, seven-game road trip and has dropped nine of its last 10 contests. Craig Anderson made 19 saves.
Flyers 4, Oilers 2
After breaking a 10-game losing skid with a win over the Flames in Calgary on Monday, Philadelphia continued its turnaround with a victory over Edmonton.
Wayne Simmonds had a goal and an assist, and Jordan Weal, Dale Weise and Michael Raffl also scored for the Flyers, who were on an 0-5-5 run before Monday. Brian Elliott made 24 saves.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Wednesday’s National Basketball Association games:
Cavaliers 101, Kings 95
LeBron James scored 32 points as the Cleveland Cavaliers beat the Sacramento Kings 101-95 on Wednesday to tie a team record for consecutive wins.
The Cavs won their 13th straight, and they can set a franchise record Friday against the Indiana Pacers. Cleveland previously won 13 in a row in March 2009 and in January-February 2010.
Kevin Love scored 18 points with 13 rebounds for the Cavs, while Jeff Green scored 17 off the bench. Kyle Korver added 15 points as Cleveland rallied from a 14-point deficit in the third quarter.
Zach Randolph paced the Kings with 18 points, and JaKarr Sampson set a career high with 16 rebounds.
Warriors 101, Hornets 87
Kevin Durant totaled 35 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists as Golden State beat Charlotte without Stephen Curry and Draymond Green.
Durant finished 13 of 28 from the field and recorded his ninth career triple-double as the Warriors won while Curry sat with a sprained ankle and Green was out with a shoulder injury. Klay Thompson added 22 for the Warriors, who won their fifth straight and seventh in eight games.
Kemba Walker led Charlotte with 24 points. Nicolas Batum added 15 and Dwight Howard finished with 14.
Celtics 97, Mavericks 90
Kyrie Irving scored nine of his 23 points in the fourth quarter as Boston beat Dallas.
Irving scored seven points in a span of 3:05 and then added another basket down the stretch to help Boston win its fourth straight. Al Horford had 17 points, eight rebounds, eight assists, three blocks and two steals. Rookie Jayson Tatum also scored 17 and grabbed 10 rebounds.
Harrison Barnes led the Mavericks with 19 points and seven rebounds while Dirk Nowitzki had 16 points.
Spurs 117, Heat 105
LaMarcus Aldridge scored 18 points to lead a parade of teammates in double figures as San Antonio Spurs beat Miami.
Eight of the 11 players who saw the court for San Antonio scored in double figures as Bryn Forbes hit for 17 points, Rudy Gay scored 16 and Patty Mills had 13 points.
Tyler Johnson led Miami with 25 points off the bench, while Dion Waiters scored 22 and Josh Richardson added 19.
Pelicans 123, Nuggets 114
DeMarcus Cousins had 40 points and 22 rebounds, and Jrue Holiday was right behind with 27 points and seven assists to lift New Orleans over Denver.
Playing without forward Anthony Davis, who missed his third consecutive game with a strained adductor, the Pelicans erased an early 10-point deficit by pounding the ball inside to Cousins.
The Nuggets were led by Gary Harris with 24 points, but they dropped to 3-9 on the road.
Knicks 99, Grizzlies 88
Courtney Lee scored half of his 24 points in the second quarter as New York beat Memphis.
Kristaps Porzingis returned from missing two games with an ankle injury to added 18 points on 8-of-19 shooting. Enes Kanter added 12 points and 12 rebounds for the Knicks, who won for the second time in seven games.
Marc Gasol scored 17 points, and Tyreke Evans added 15 to lead the Grizzlies, who lost for the 11th time in 12 games.
Bucks 104, Pistons 100
Andre Drummond scored 27 points and grabbed 20 rebounds, but it was not enough for the Detroit in a loss to Milwaukee.
Drummond hit 12 of 15 shots but Detroit shot just 41.9 percent as a team and went 10-for-30 from beyond the 3-point arc in its season-high fourth straight loss. Tobias Harris added 21 and Avery Bradley finished with 20 for the Pistons.
Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 25 points and grabbed 10 rebounds for Milwaukee, which also got 22 points from Eric Bledsoe and 21 from Khris Middleton.
Magic 110, Hawks 106 (OT)
Evan Fournier led all scorers with 27 points but left Orlando’s win over Atlanta early in the extra period with a badly sprained right ankle.
Fournier hit 12 of 21 shots and scored the first basket in overtime before limping off the court after landing on Nikola Vucevic’s foot during the follow-through of his running floater.
Aaron Gordon had 24 points and a season-high 15 rebounds for Orlando (11-15) while Vucevic added 22 and a season-best 16 rebounds.
Dennis Schroder led the Hawks (5-19) with 26 points and seven assists.
Pacers 98, Bulls 96
Victor Oladipo scored 11 of his 27 points in the fourth quarter, including a 3-pointer with 31.1 seconds left as Indiana rallied from a 16-point deficit in the final 9 1/2 minutes to beat Chicago.
Oladipo made his shot after stealing the ball from Chicago’s Denzel Valentine and was among five in double figures for Indiana. Bojan Bogdanovic added 17 points and Darren Collison contributed 14.
Kris Dunn scored 19 points for Chicago, which dropped its 10th straight by getting outscored 29-13 and shooting 5 of 18 in the fourth quarter.
Timberwolves 113, Clippers 107
Karl-Anthony Towns totaled 21 points and 12 rebounds as Minnesota beat Los Angeles.
Jimmy Butler and Jeff Teague added 19 points apiece for Minnesota, which shot 55 percent. Andrew Wiggins contributed 16 points as did Taj Gibson, who also grabbed 14 rebounds.


(Reuters) - British world number nine Johanna Konta has named American Michael Joyce as her new coach for the 2018 season following her split from Belgian Wim Fisette in October.
The 26-year-old enjoyed a solid start to 2017, winning the Sydney International and Miami Open titles, and hit a career-high number four world ranking before injury and poor form saw her miss out on a WTA Finals berth.
The 44-year-old Joyce has previously worked with former number ones Maria Sharapova, whom he guided to two grand slam titles, and Victoria Azarenka, whose team he joined in early 2017 before leaving the Belarusian’s coaching squad last week.
“I‘m delighted to confirm that Michael Joyce will be joining my team for 2018,” Konta said in a statement.
“Michael is a fantastic coach with a great pedigree and I‘m really excited to work with him. 2017 has been amazing but I feel like there is so much more to come.”
Konta will begin her 2018 season at the Brisbane International, which is scheduled to start on Dec. 31.
Elsewhere, Czech Barbora Strycova, who won the Linz Open in October, has named compatriot David Kotyza as her new coach after splitting with Tomas Krupa earlier this year.
Strycova, 31, will play her first competition under Kotyza at the season-opening ASB Classic in Auckland.


(The Sports Xchange) - Roger Goodell signed a five-year contract extension to remain the commissioner of the NFL, according to a memo sent to league owners from the compensation committee on Wednesday.
ESPN’s Adam Schefter reported, citing a source, that Goodell’s contract is expected to pay him about $40 million per year and includes incentives. Darren Rovell, also of ESPN, reported the five-year deal could be worth twice as much annually as the first 10 years that Goodell was commissioner, during which he made $212.5 million.
Goodell, 58, was elected NFL commissioner in 2006, succeeding Paul Tagliabue. Goodell first joined the league as an intern back in 1982.
Steelers linebacker Ryan Shazier has been transferred from University of Cincinnati Medical Center to a Pittsburgh hospital for treatment and additional testing on his spinal injury.
Shazier was injured during Monday’s 23-20 win versus Cincinnati while making a tackle on Bengals wide receiver Josh Malone with 11:14 remaining in the first quarter. The 25-year-old Shazier hit Malone low with his shoulder pads, then immediately reached for his back while his legs remained motionless.
The Steelers had hoped Shazier would be able to return to Pittsburgh on Tuesday. His transfer to the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center was pushed back as he remained at University of Cincinnati Medical Center under the care of neurosurgeons David Okonwko and Joseph Cheng.
Eli Manning is officially back as the New York Giants’ starting quarterback for Sunday’s home game against the Dallas Cowboys.
Interim head coach Steve Spagnuolo announced the decision after the Giants practiced for the first time since the housecleaning firings of head coach Ben McAdoo and general manager Jerry Reese.
The firings on Monday by owner John Mara -- less than a week after the benching of Manning for Geno Smith created a backlash from fans -- ended a tumultuous week for the 2-10 Giants, who are going through one of the worst seasons in franchise history.
Kansas City Chiefs cornerback Marcus Peters received a one-game suspension from head coach Andy Reid following his actions against the New York Jets on Sunday, the latest in a series of incidents involving the volatile and competitive Peters in his young career.
Peters received an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty following a defensive holding call against teammate Steven Nelson during an unsuccessful two-point conversion try by the Jets. Peters picked up the official’s flag and threw it into the stands, then walked off the field to the locker room.
Cincinnati Bengals safety George Iloka’s one-game suspension has been overturned following appeal, and he will play in Sunday’s game against the Chicago Bears.
Iloka initially was suspended for one game for making helmet-to-helmet contact while hitting Pittsburgh Steelers receiver Antonio Brown after his game-tying touchdown catch with 3:51 left in the Bengals’ 23-20 loss on Monday night.
Seattle Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson was named NFC Offensive Player of the Week for his three-touchdown performance in Sunday night’s victory over the Philadelphia Eagles.
The NFL also announced that New York Jets quarterback Josh McCown earned the AFC offensive honor Week 13. He scored on a 1-yard quarterback sneak with 2:15 left to lead the Jets over the Kansas City Chiefs 38-31. McCown finished with 331 yards passing and a touchdown, and ran for two scores.


LAUSANNE, Switzerland, (Reuters) - The International Olympic Committee (IOC) on Wednesday said it would not make any payments to the international boxing federation AIBA until problems over governance and finances are sorted out.
AIBA has been riven with in-fighting for months, with former president CK Wu first provisionally suspended and then stepping down in November after a bitter dispute with his executive committee.
Wu, an IOC member, was replaced by interim chief Franco Falcinelli and the federation will convene an extraordinary congress with its national member federations on Jan. 27 in Dubai to consider proposed changes to its governance.
“The IOC executive board has major concerns with regard to the situation within AIBA in different aspects,” IOC President Thomas Bach told reporters.
“There is the governance issues, there is the fact that financial statements have not been made fully transparent, there are still questions open with regard to judging, refereeing and anti-doping and therefore we have asked AIBA for a full report by the end of January.”
Bach said he wanted to see what measures AIBA would take to tackle the problems that have tarnished the federation. Wu remains an IOC member as his membership to the Olympic body does not depend on the AIBA presidency.
“We want to see the measures AIBA is taking to address these issues. Until things will change the IOC will not make any financial contributions to AIBA,” Bach said.
He said the next payment to AIBA would be in a few months for referees for next year’s Youth Olympic Games in Buenos Aires.
This is not the first time AIBA has IOC funds blocked.
The Olympic ruling body withheld payment of more than $1 million of television rights from the Athens 2004 Olympics after a refereeing scandal at those Games.


LAUSANNE, Switzerland (Reuters) - Russia has been banned from the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics after the IOC found evidence of an “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of the anti-doping system that has led to a series of suspensions for the country’s athletes in recent months.
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) did not impose a blanket ban on Russia ahead of the Rio 2016 Summer Games but said on Tuesday that the evidence unearthed by the Schmid Commission made the doping situation impossible to dispute.
It therefore suspended Russia, which finished top of the medals table at its own 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, from next year’s Games in South Korea that run from Feb. 9-25
However, in a bid to protect “innocent athletes” the door has been left open for Russians to compete as an “Olympic Athlete of Russia”, as long as they satisfy strict conditions that show they have a doping-free background.
The IOC also decided to suspend Russian Olympic Committee (ROC) president Alexander Zhukov as an IOC member, while   Russian Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Mutko, sports minister at the time of the Sochi Games, was also banned from any future participation at the Olympics.
Former Switzerland President Samuel Schmid told a news conference his report focusing on allegations of government involvement in Russian doping at the Sochi Games confirmed “the systematic manipulation of the anti-doping rules and system”.
The results were not based only on testimony by Russia’s former anti-doping chief-turned-whistleblower Grigory Rodchenkov. There was also scientific evidence, witness statements documents and correspondence, he said.
“The facts are that in Russia there was systemic manipulation of doping and the anti-doping system... that also took place at Sochi 2014,” added Schmid.
IOC President Thomas Bach said: ”Today we gave the Russian delegation the opportunity to express themselves. In this meeting this afternoon the president of ROC (Russian Olympic Committee) has apologized.
“As a former athlete I am feeling very sorry for all the clean athletes who are suffering from this manipulation... but because we are allowing clean athletes to participate they can set about building a bridge for the future (rather) than erecting a new wall between Russia and the Olympic movement.”
Zhukov described the IOC decision as contradictory. “There are positive and negative sides,” he said. “The IOC has allowed all clean athletes in all sports.”
Other Russians were more forthright, with Alexei Kravtsov, president of the Russian Skating Union, saying: ”The decision is offensive, insulting and completely unjustified.
“I consider that this decision will deal a great blow to the whole Olympic movement.”
Alexei Kurashov, president of the Russian freestyle federation, added: ”The Olympic movement has discredited itself and there will be fundamental consequences to this.
“These are not the principles of Olympism. I can’t say that the activities of the IOC are honest.”
“WELCOME STEP”
U.S. Senator John McCain, a frequent critic of the Kremlin, praised the IOC announcement.
“The International Olympic decision to ban Russia from the 2018 Winter Olympics is a welcome step in serving justice to Vladimir Putin’s government for its elaborate doping scheme in 2014,” he said in a statement.
“Today’s announcement sends an important message to Putin’s Russia that being a member of the international community means abiding by rules, norms, and standards - and that anything less will not be tolerated.”
The IOC’s decision comes 18 months after it decided not to impose an outright ban on Russian athletes ahead of Rio and told international sports federations to decide individually on the participation of Russians at the Olympics in Brazil.
While all of Russia’s track and field athletes bar one and the weightlifting team were banned from Rio, about 70 percent of Russia’s original 387-strong squad took part at those Games.
Bach said on Tuesday, however, that the situation was different now.
“(Ahead of Rio) there was no opportunity to hear the Russian side and at the time of Rio it was mainly about the failure in the Moscow lab. Now it’s about the manipulation of an Olympic lab. The conditions then and now are totally different.”
The Schmid report said the IOC had “not found any documented, independent and impartial evidence confirming the support or the knowledge of this (anti-doping manipulation) system by the highest State authority” after Richard McLaren’s independent report for the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) had said the Russian government and secret service were involved.
McLaren’s report in 2016 found more than 1,000 Russian competitors in over 30 sports had been involved in a conspiracy to conceal positive drug tests over a five-year period.
In the last month, the IOC’s own commission has banned more than 20 Russian athletes from the Olympics for life over doping violations at the Sochi Games, while the country’s athletics federation remains banned from that sport.
McLaren welcomed Tuesday’s decision, saying: ”By holding Russia accountable for its actions, which date back at least to the (2012) London Games and continued through the Sochi Games, the sports community is demonstrating its commitment to ensuring athletes benefit from an even playing field and drug-free competition.
“This decision further confirms the conclusions of my investigation, and I wish to thank all those who helped me with my work -- some of whom did so at great personal risk.”
World Anti-Doping Agency president Craig Reedie said the IOC had taken an informed decision to sanction Russia for its involvement “in institutionalized manipulation of the doping control process before, during and after the 2014 Sochi Olympic Games”.
Travis Tygart CEO of the United States Anti-Doping Agency said: “Over the past three years, a high stakes game of chicken has been played between those willing to sacrifice the Olympic ideals by employing a state-directed doping program to cheat to win and, on the other side, athletes unwilling to stand silent while their hopes and dreams were stolen and the Olympic Games hijacked. Today the IOC listened to those who matter most – and clean athletes won a significant victory.”
The decision comes seven months before Russia hosts the soccer World Cup, though Bach declined to comment on what, if any, impact Tuesday’s decision might have on that tournament.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday a decision by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) this week to ban the Russian team from competing at next year’s Winter Olympics looked politically-motivated, the Interfax news agency reported.
“It all looks like an absolutely orchestrated and politically-motivated decision,” Interfax cited Putin as saying. “We see this. For me, there are no doubts about this.”
Putin said earlier on Wednesday there were many questions about the IOC’s decision, but that it would be up to every Russian sportsperson to decide if they participate as neutral competitors.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday questioned why the country’s competitors at the Winter Olympics next year will not be able to compete under the Russian flag, Russian news agencies reported.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - A decision by the International Olympic Committee to bar Russia’s team from next year’s Winter Olympics is part of a larger international campaign to pressure Russia, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Wednesday.
She told a news conference that because attempts to isolate Russia economically and politically had failed, the focus of Russia’s adversaries had switched to sport instead.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday he had never instructed his officials to deliver victory for Russia at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russian news agencies reported.
Evidence of doping by Russian competitors at the Sochi games led the International Olympic Committee (IOC) this week to ban the Russian team from competing at next year’s Winter Olympics in South Korea.
Putin said on Wednesday there were many questions about the IOC’s decision, but that it would be up to every Russian sportsperson to decide if they participate as neutral competitors.


LAUSANNE, Switzerland (Reuters) - Pyeongchang 2018 daily ticket sales have tripled since the start of the Olympic torch relay in South Korea last month with the International Olympic Committee (IOC) hopeful of 90 percent of them being sold by the start of the Winter Games on Feb. 9.
Organizers have so far sold about half of the expected 1.1 million ticket target after months of lagging sales.
But IOC Olympic Games Executive Director Christophe Dubi said on Wednesday the numbers had picked up in the first Asian country outside Japan to host the Winter Games since the flame arrived in South Korea from ancient Olympia on Nov. 1.
“We discussed about the ticketing situation, which is improving,” Dubi said after a progress report on the Pyeongchang Games to the IOC Executive Board.
“It is true we can see a big difference in tickets sales on a daily basis. Sales have tripled from prior to the torch relay,” he said.
Low numbers in the previous months triggered alarm bells among organizers who decided to enforce a back-up plan of mobilizing 17 local governments and schools to boost sales.
“We are now at 55 percent. We average 1,200 a day without counting school sales,” Dubi said.
“We have to trust the Koreans. They said there would be a last minute surge of sales. The intention is to get to 90 percent at the start of the Games which would be a fabulous result.”
The run-up to the Games has been overshadowed by the ongoing crisis on the Korean peninsula and the IOC decision on Tuesday to ban Russia from the Games over “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of the anti-doping system.
Political tension has risen in recent months with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and U.S. President Donald Trump exchanging threats and insults over the North’s nuclear missile development program.


JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - Local favorite Louis Oosthuizen has pulled out of the Johannesburg Open starting on Thursday after a freak accident that will go down as one of sport’s more unusual injuries.
The 2010 British Open champion hurt his fingers when they were caught between two airport trollies as he returned to South Africa from competing at the Mauritius Open this past weekend.
Oosthuizen, who is in severe pain and unable to grip his clubs, said he did not want to risk starting a tournament he could not finish and deny another player the chance to compete.
“This morning is even worse than it was yesterday, so I tried to grip a golf club but there’s no way I can go to my grip position,” he said in a news conference on Wednesday.
“It’s a bit of an unfortunate one, but I don’t want to tee off Thursday and play one hole or a few shots and then withdraw after taking someone’s spot. You know, I just can’t do that. So, I’m going to have to withdraw from this one.”
Cody Martin of the United States has been drafted into Oosthuizen’s three-ball that also includes last week’s winner in Mauritius, Dylan Frittelli, and Jazz Janewattananond of Thailand.
The Joburg Open at the Royal Johannesburg & Kensington Golf Club is part of the European Tour’s International Schedule, co-sanctioned by the Asian Tour and South Africa’s Sunshine Tour.


ZURICH (Reuters) - Kuwait can return to international football following an absence of more than two years after FIFA lifted a ban on the country’s football association on Wednesday.
Kuwait was suspended in October 2015 over a government bill which the global soccer body said interfered in the independence of the country’s FA and fell foul of the FIFA statutes.
FIFA said in a statement that the lifting of the ban followed official confirmation “that the Kuwait Parliament has adopted a new Sports Law of Kuwait, which replaces all the previous ones and has been amended in order to be fully compliant with the FIFA Statutes and requirements.”
The lifting of the ban means Kuwait’s national teams and clubs can take part in international competition again and it again becomes eligible for FIFA grants.


ZURICH (Reuters) - Twenty-two Russian athletes banned for life by the International Olympic Committee for doping offences at the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics are appealing their ban, the Court of Arbitration for Sport said on Wednesday.
Their appeal comes a day after the IOC banned Russia from next year’s Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, allowing only invited clean athletes to participate as neutrals.
“The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) has registered 22 appeals filed by Russian athletes against decisions taken by the Disciplinary Commission of the International Olympic Committee,” CAS said.
It said the athletes had asked CAS to rule before the start of the Feb. 9-25 Pyeongchang Olympics in South Korea.
Among those appealing are gold medalist bobsledders Aleksandr Zubkov and Dmitry Trunenkov, cross-country gold medalist Alexander Legkov and champion skeleton racer Aleksander Tretiakov.
The IOC found the athletes violated anti-doping rules as part of a wider, systematic doping effort by Russia at the Sochi Games. It barred them from the events they had competed in, confiscated all medals they had won and banned them from taking part in any future Olympic games.
Lifetime Olympic bans have been overturned at CAS in the past, with the court ruling that athletes who had been suspended for doping could not be punished again by being left out of the Olympics.
The 22 Russians are set to miss February’s Games whatever happens, because doping violations carry bans of two to four years for first-time offenders.


VIENNA (Reuters) - An independent commission will investigate former Austrian skiers’ allegations of sexual assaults by coaches, supervisors and team members from the 1970s until at least 2005, the Austrian province of Tyrol said on Tuesday.
Former Olympic skier Nicola Werdenigg said last month that she was raped when she was 16 by a male team colleague and that what happened to her was not an isolated incident.
More former Austrian ski athletes have since spoken out, though anonymously, since Werdenigg’s interview, reporting similar experiences and suggesting the abuse was systemic.
The issue in Austria has arisen as numerous allegations of sexual harassment in entertainment, business, politics and sport have been made worldwide in recent months.
Werdenigg, the 1975 Austria downhill champion, did not reveal any names in her interview with the daily Der Standard. She alleged assaults and sexual violence by coaches, supervisors, colleagues, service staff at a Tyrolean boarding school for ski racers.
“We take the allegations of physical and psychological violence and abuse in connection with youth sports, which have arisen in recent weeks, as a reason to deal transparently and openly with the subject,” Tyrolean Governor Guenther Platter said on Tuesday.
Werdenigg was questioned by Tyrolean prosecutors in the city of Innsbruck on Tuesday.
It was not known whether she named any alleged  offenders. Contacted by Reuters in the evening, she said in a text message the interview was still going on.
The chief of the Austrian Ski Federation (OSV), Peter Schroecksnadel, said in an initial reaction to Werdenigg’s accusations that he was taking the claims very seriously and that he had never heard of such allegations since he became head of the sport’s body in 1990.
Both male and female athletes were exposed to sexual assault during her time at boarding school, Werdenigg, who finished fourth in the Olympic descent in 1976 under her maiden name     Spiess, said in November.
Another former female skier, who wanted to stay anonymous backed up Werdenigg’s allegations.
A male skier told daily Kurier that sexual transgressions were still common in the 1980s and 1990s during his time at another Tyrolean boarding school for skiers.
His descriptions of admission rituals, which included the anal insertion of ski wax, was supported by another female athlete who said she went to a boarding school in the province of Styria in the late 1990s.
Several former athletes, who in recent days spoke to local media about sexual assaults they endured and witnessed during their active time, said it was hard to imagine that the ski federation knew nothing.
“Everyone knew about such procedures. It was thought that it was normal. It was barely talked about, and certainly nothing was done,” Werdenigg said in the Standard interview.
The ski federation said in a statement that it was neither  responsible for the boarding schools nor had any influence on the selection of teachers,”
“We explicitly dissociate ourselves from being named as a co-responsible institution in connection with such incidents,” the federation said.
The association has 140,000 members, including World Cup winner Marcel Hirscher and Olympic gold medalist Anna Veith.


LAUSANNE, Switzerland (Reuters) - Following are the key findings of a report by the IOC disciplinary commission, headed by former Switzerland President and Federal Council member Samuel Schmid, that led to Russia being banned from the Pyeongchang Games on Tuesday.
The commission based its findings on an independent report by Canadian lawyer Richard McLaren that was commissioned by the World Anti-Doping Agency and published last year.
Russia has denied that the state was involved in doping cover-ups.
* The commission confirmed that the Russian authorities developed a system that allowed a Moscow laboratory to routinely change positive test results to negative, as well as to tamper with samples during the Sochi Games in 2014.
It said this confirmed the “unprecedented nature of the cheating scheme and, as a consequence, the exceptional damage to the integrity of the IOC, the Olympic Games and the entire Olympic Movement.”
However, the commission said it had not found “any documented, independent and impartial evidence confirming the support or the knowledge of this system by the highest State authority.”
* Thirty-four Russian athletes tested positive in re-analysis of samples from the 2008 and 2012 Olympics, the commission said. This confirmed “a widespread culture of doping in Russia, affecting numerous sports for a long period of time.”
* The commission said it found “some similarities” with the doping situation in the former East Germany but “considers that the system in the former GDR was different from the one described.”
* The commission said it was able to confirm allegations that some individuals received payments to conceal positive doping tests, having previously encouraged athletes to purchase doping substances.
* Before around 2011-12, athletes were obliged to purchase doping products, pay to cover up their individual test results or both, the commission said. Afterwards, the program covered the costs of the manipulation of the doping tests.
* The commission said that the system progressed along with anti-doping technologies. It began with deceit on the reporting system, escalated with the creation of false biological profiles and ended with the tampering of samples.
* The commission said that evidence in the McLaren report showed “failure to respect the WADA Code within the various entities under the responsibility of the Russian Ministry of Sport.”
It said that ”the then Russian Minister had the ultimate administrative responsibility for the acts perpetrated at the time within the Russian Ministry or the entities under its responsibility.
* The commission noted that the McLaren Report did not mention that the Russian Olympic Committee (ROC) participated in the system. However, it said that “the ROC must be held legally responsible for the breach of its legal and contractual obligations.”


TORONTO (Reuters) - The Seattle Sounders hope to silence critics in Saturday’s MLS Cup rematch with Toronto FC following last year’s triumph on penalty kicks after they failed to put a single shot on goal during regulation.
During last year’s final, an energetic Toronto side pushed forward for set pieces while Seattle seemed more content to pick their spots on the counter but ultimately set an MLS Cup record with no shots on target.
“Certainly for the soccer pundits, for the sportscasters, for some of the people that classified our win last year as ‘no shots on goal,’ sure I’d like to silence some of those critics,” Seattle coach Brian Schmetzer told a conference call on Tuesday.
“But we never do not try and go out and score. We don’t bunker in for 90 minutes because we understand that that’s the way you don’t win soccer games.”
Toronto will again host Seattle in the MLS Cup and both teams are expecting a more open contest than last year but the Sounders are mindful of letting the game get away from them.
Seattle goalkeeper Stefan Frei said his team are at their best when they are defensively sound and so will do their best to avoid getting into a back-and-forth match with Toronto and risk opening up space for Jozy Altidore and Sebastian Giovinco.
“We’re going to want to stay compact and organized and make it difficult for them but also take care of our chances when we get them,” said Swiss Frei, who was named the MLS Cup Most Valuable Player last year.
“Does that mean we are going to try and go for 0-0? No, not at all. We are going to try to be organized but definitely carve out some chances, hopefully more than last year.”
Italian Giovinco and American Altidore combined for 42 percent of their team’s goals during the regular season, but the dynamic duo will have their hands full against the Sounders.
Seattle have not conceded in a playoff record 647 minutes dating back to the first leg of the 2016 Western Conference Championship — a streak of nearly seven matches — and have not allowed a goal in their last 542 minutes dating back to their match with the Philadelphia Union on Oct. 1.
But Altidore, who shrugged off an ankle injury to score the goal that put Toronto into a second consecutive MLS Cup final, said he is not concerning himself with Seattle’s string of shutouts.
“It’s a final, it’s a different game,” said Altidore.
“Everything you’ve done up until this game, I‘m not going to say it goes out the window entirely, but it’s just a different animal now than the games before.”


MOSCOW (Reuters) - The President of Russia’s Olympic Committee, Alexander Zhukov, said on Tuesday that Russian athletes will appeal the International Olympic Committee (IOC) ban from the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics at the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS), R-Sport news agency reported.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian bobsleigh federation president Alexander Zubkov said on Tuesday he was shocked by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) decision to ban Russia from the 2018 Pyeongchang Olympics.
“I am simply shocked by what is happening and what happened and by Thomas Bach’s decision regarding our country and our athletes,” Zubkov told Reuters.
Zubkov was stripped last month of the two gold medals he won at the 2014 Sochi Games and banned from the Olympics for life over alleged doping violations.
He says he is innocent and has vowed to appeal the bans against Russian bobsledders at the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS).


MOSCOW (Reuters) - The head of Russia’s curling federation on Tuesday slammed the IOC decision to ban Russia from the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics as unprofessional.
“I consider that the IOC’s decision is unprofessional,” the federation’s president, Dmitry Svishchev, told Reuters. “I am profoundly convinced that it was made under pressure. Someone needed Russia not to participate in the Games.”


MOSCOW (Reuters) - The Russian Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday Russia would not be rattled by the International Olympic Committee’s (IOC) decision to ban it from the upcoming winter Olympics and would survive the ordeal.
It was responding after the IOC said on Tuesday that Russia had been banned from the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics after evidence emerged of an “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of the anti-doping system.
“We can never be knocked down,” Maria Zakharova, a ministry spokeswoman, wrote on social media. “Not by a world war, not by the collapse of the Soviet Union, not by sanctions. We take it and we survive.”


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian ice hockey star Ilya Kovalchuk on Tuesday told his country’s clean athletes to make sure they took part in the 2018 Pyeongchang winter Olympics if they satisfied strict conditions that showed they had a doping-free background.
He was speaking after the International Olympic Committee (IOC) said on Tuesday it had banned Russia from the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics after evidence emerged of an “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of the anti-doping system.
“We all perfectly understand that the IOC decision is pure politics and we understand against whom it is directed,” Kovalchuk told the R-Sport news agency.
“It was clear that there would be such a decision. But if the athletes go there, it will unite the country. All clean athletes must go.”


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian state television holding VGTRK said on Tuesday it would not broadcast the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in the absence of Russia’s national team, Interfax news agency reported.
Russia’s Olympic Committee (ROC) has been banned from the Pyeongchang Games after a prolonged doping scandal but some athletes will be allowed to compete under the tag of “Olympic Athlete of Russia.”


(Reuters) - The New York Rangers, worth $1.5 billion, are the most valuable franchise in the National Hockey League for a third consecutive year, according to the annual list published by business magazine Forbes on Tuesday.
The Rangers are worth nearly triple the average of the NHL’s 31 teams, which Forbes said rose 15 percent to $594 million due in part to the $500 million expansion fee that was paid by the expansion Vegas Golden Knights, who were 14th on the list.
The Toronto Maple Leafs, who were rated the most valuable franchise from 2005-14, moved up a spot from last year to No 2 with a value of $1.4 billion.
The Montreal Canadiens ($1.25 billion), Chicago Blackhawks ($1 billion) and Boston Bruins ($890 million) rounded out the top five while the reigning back-to-back Stanley Cup champions Pittsburgh Penguins ($650 million) were 10th on the list.
According to Forbes, the big market NHL teams have received a boost to their values from what they called the ever-increasing premium being paid for teams in all the major sports.
For the complete list visit www.Forbes.com/NHL-valuations.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Monday’s National Hockey League games:
Flyers 5, Flames 2
Scott Laughton scored twice to lead the Philadelphia Flyers to a 5-2 win over the Calgary Flames on Monday at the Scotiabank Saddledome.
Valtteri Filppula and Michael Raffl had a goal and an assist each for the Flyers, who snapped their 10-game losing streak (0-5-5).
Wayne Simmonds also scored, while Jakub Voracek had three assists for Philadelphia.
Troy Brouwer and Sean Monahan scored for the Flames, who wrapped up their four-game homestand with a 1-3-0 record.
Islanders 5, Panthers 4 (SO)
New York Islanders rookie center Mathew Barzal delivered in the shootout, giving New York a wild win over Florida.
The Islanders got goals in regulation from Anders Lee, Thomas Hickey, Brock Nelson and John Tavares. Lee’s goal was No. 100 in his career.
The Panthers got goals from Keith Yandle, Aaron Ekblad, Aleksander Barkov and Denis Malgin.
Capitals 4, Sharks 1
Alex Ovechkin scored his league-leading 20th goal and added an assist, Philipp Grubauer stopped 24 shots and Washington defeated San Jose.
Devante Smith-Pelly, Brett Connolly and Jakub Vrana also scored for the Capitals, who have won five of six and are 2-1-0 on their season-high, five-game homestand.
Timo Meier scored for the Sharks, who finished 2-2-0 on their four-game road trip.
Predators 5, Bruins 3
Craig Smith scored two first-period goals as Nashville burst out to a four-goal lead and held off Boston.
Nick Bonino, Kevin Fiala and Filip Forsberg also scored for the Predators.


ADELAIDE (Reuters) - James Anderson took five for 43 as England continued their bowling resurgence to dismiss Australia for 138 just before tea on Tuesday and set themselves an imposing victory target of 354 over the last five sessions of the second Ashes test.
Although the hosts managed to add only 85 runs to their overnight tally in bright sunshine at Adelaide Oval, that was enough to push their lead well past the record successful fourth innings run chase at the ground of 315.
Anderson picked up where he left off in Monday’s night session with a superb display of seam bowling to dismiss nightwatchman Nathan Lyon, a jittery Peter Handscomb and Mitchell Starc.
Chris Woakes (4-36) chipped in to see off Tim Paine and Shaun Marsh, ensuring the latter was unable to repeat the unbeaten 126 that underpinned Australia’s 442 for eight declared in the first innings.
Although the debate over whether Steve Smith should have enforced the follow-on after England were dismissed for 227 on Monday evening will continue to rage, Australia remain strong favourites to win the match and take a 2-0 lead in the series.
England’s best individual total over the 10-wicket defeat in Brisbane and the first innings in Adelaide was the 83 James Vince put together at the Gabba.
Australia’s pace attack will also be licking their lips at the prospect of bowling at the Englishmen under the lights in the final session of the day.
It was in that session on Monday night that England found their mojo with the ball and they continued to ride that momentum on Tuesday when Australia resumed on 53-4.
Handscomb was reprieved in the first over on referral when the TV pictures showed Anderson’s delivery had hit his shoulder rather than his bat, but he rarely looked comfortable.
Lyon was the first batsman to fall, however, when he chipped the ball to Stuart Broad at mid-off for 14 with Handscomb following soon afterwards for 12 courtesy of a fine catch from Dawid Malan in the slips.
Woakes got in on the act to remove Paine for 11 when Craig Overton also displayed fine catching skills to take a low catch at fine leg before Marsh (19) misjudged a fuller delivery and the ball made a mess of his stumps.
Anderson took a nasty tumble when he tried to catch Starc out off his own bowling but was soon back at the other end to get his man for 20 and record his first five-wicket haul in Australia.
Overton ended the innings when Josh Hazlewood spooned the ball to Malan at gully.


(The Sports Xchange) - Chris Boswell’s 38-yard field goal as time expired lifted the Pittsburgh Steelers to a 23-20 victory over the Cincinnati Bengals, capping an injury- and penalty-ridden Monday night matchup at Paul Brown Stadium.
The Steelers lost linebacker and leading tackler Ryan Shazier to a back injury in the first quarter. He was taken to a local hospital, reportedly with no feeling below his waist.
Antonio Brown had eight catches for 101 yards and a touchdown, and Ben Roethlisberger passed for 290 yards and two TDs in helping Pittsburgh (10-2) rally from a 17-0 second-quarter deficit for its seventh straight victory.
Cincinnati (5-7) had a franchise-record 173 penalty yards, including an offside penalty that gave Boswell 5 extra yards on his game-winner.
Andy Dalton passed for 234 yards and two touchdowns for the Bengals (5-7), who also sustained several key injuries.
Cincinnati lost cornerback Adam Jones to a groin injury and running back Joe Mixon to a concussion in the first half.
Late in the fourth quarter, Bengals linebacker Vontaze Burfict sustained a head injury on a block by receiver JuJu Smith-Schuster, who was flagged for unsportsmanlike conduct and taunting on the play.
The Steelers captured some momentum with a field goal just before halftime. Then on their first possession of the third quarter, Le‘Veon Bell caught a short pass and tiptoed the sideline past Bengals corner William Jackson III for a 35-yard touchdown to make the score 17-10.
Bell rushed for 76 yards on 18 carries.
Dalton had a 61-yard touchdown pass to A.J. Green negated by a holding penalty, and Martavis Bryant had a 96-yard kickoff return touchdown called back, also due to a hold.
Cincinnati led 20-13 with eight minutes left, but Roethlisberger’s 6-yard TD pass to Brown tied the score with 3:51 remaining.
The Bengals dominated the first quarter with 112 total yards on 16 plays.
Brown, who was questionable coming into Monday’s game, caught a 20-yard pass on his first target. However, Jones made a diving interception of a Roethlisberger pass three plays later, helping set up a 35-yard field goal by Randy Bullock to put Cincinnati ahead 3-0. Jones injured his groin on the play and did not return.
The Bengals then drove 85 yards on 12 plays on their next possession, and a 9-yard TD pass from Dalton to Green increased their lead to 10-0. Coty Sensabaugh, who was starting at left cornerback in place of Joe Haden, was beaten on the play.
Green again beat Sensabaugh for a 15-yard TD pass to Green with 31 seconds remaining in the first half. Cincinnati led 17-3 at the end of an injury-riddled first half.
Dalton was 16 of 23 for 173 yards and two touchdowns in the first half. Both of his scoring passes came on third down.


(Reuters) - Stephen Curry suffered a right ankle injury in the closing stages of Golden State’s win over New Orleans on Monday and left the arena on crutches, but later X-rays cleared him of any damage.    Curry hurt the ankle when he lunged for a steal and turned the ankle awkwardly with just over a minute remaining in the game.
Curry finished with 31 points and 11 assists as the Warriors (19-6) rallied to a 125-115 victory.


MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Having felt “angry” to have to compete with Russian dopers, Australia’s race walking champion Jared Tallent hopes the International Olympic Committee will heed calls from clean athletes to exclude the nation from the Winter Games.
The IOC is set to decide later on Tuesday whether to ban Russia from Pyeongchang over alleged institutional doping, a decision that will be watched closely by athletes and anti-doping authorities.
Moscow has vehemently denied state involvement and claimed the allegations are politically motivated.
Four years after coming second behind a Russian drug cheat at the London Olympics, Tallent was belatedly awarded the 50km walk gold last year after Sergey Kirdyapkin was stripped of the medal.
The 33-year-old Australian remains highly suspicious of the strength of Russia’s anti-doping program, however, and doubtful the country can move on from the scandals that have engulfed it in recent years.
”As a clean athlete, I would like to see them banned from the Winter Olympics,“ he told Reuters in a phone interview on Tuesday. ”I think the evidence has been pretty clear around what they did over the leadup to the last (Rio) Olympics.
”It would be disappointing to see them allowed at Pyeongchang.
“I don’t even like the fact they let them compete as neutral athletes. It’s still allowing Russians into competition.”
Russia’s anti-doping agency (RUSADA) has been suspended since a 2015 report by a World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) commission found evidence of state-sponsored doping in Russia.
A further WADA report last year found more than 1,000 Russian competitors in over 30 sports had been involved in a conspiracy to conceal positive drug tests over a five-year period.
Last month, the IOC’s own commission has banned more than 20 Russian athletes from the Olympics for life over doping violations at the 2014 Winter Games that Russia hosted in Sochi.
The Kremlin has continued to deny any culpability, however, and said it would defend the “legitimate interests” of its Sochi athletes who were disqualified and had their medals stripped.
WADA has demanded Russia own up to state-sponsored doping as a condition of lifting its suspension on RUSADA, but Tallent could not imagine any admission would come.
“They’re just trying to save face to their people,” he said.
”It would be a pretty devastating to admit to their people that they’ve sponsored doping.
“But they aren’t going to move forward in sport until they admit they were involved. I don’t think they will move forward.”
The 15-member IOC Executive Board can opt to issue a blanket ban on Russian athletes, or allow them to compete in South Korea as neutrals.
They could also defer to international sports federations to decide on their participation as they did at Rio.
Although Russia was barred from athletics and weightlifting at the summer Games, it was able to send around 70 percent of its original 387-strong squad.
Tallent felt the IOC missed a chance to make a strong statement at Rio but was pleased the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) maintained a hard line.
The IAAF banned the Russian athletics federation in 2015 and confirmed last week that it would continue its suspension.
Russia’s race walking program has been notorious for producing drug cheats, and Tallent said his sport was better off without the nation competing.
“There’s certainly less suspicion around competition, I can tell you,” said the four-times Olympic medalist.
”Athletes feel like they’re competing in a cleaner field.
“Particularly in my event, there were always suspicions and it did make you quite angry when you knew you were up against athletes who were playing dirty.”


(Reuters) - Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker Ryan Shazier suffered a back injury and was carted off the field after a head-first collision with Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver Josh Malone during the first quarter on Monday.
Shazier slammed into Malone and immediately grabbed at his back while signaling for trainers to tend to him.
Steelers team mates kneeled around Shazier as he was strapped to a stretcher and taken off the field. The team announced that Shazier had been taken to the hospital for further evaluation.
Shazier, 25, was the team’s leading tackler through 11 games.


(The Sports Xchange) - Portland Timbers midfielder Diego Valeri was named Major League Soccer’s Most Valuable Player on Monday.
Valeri received the honor by vote of the league’s club managers, media members and current players. The other nominees included Atlanta United’s Miguel Almiron, Toronto FC’s Sebastian Giovinco, Chicago’s Nemanja Nikolic and NYCFC’s David Villa.
The 31-year-old Valeri recorded an MLS-record nine-game goal-scoring streak from July 29-Sept. 24 and finished with 21 on the season, trailing only Nikolic and Villa.
Valeri also had 11 assists in 32 games for Portland (15-11-8), which finished with the most points in the West before falling in the conference semifinals to the Houston Dynamo.


(Reuters) - A UCLA basketball player who was arrested for shoplifting in China and whose father later engaged in a public dispute with U.S. President Donald Trump will leave the university and prepare for the NBA draft next year, the player’s father told media on Monday.
“We learned today of LiAngelo Ball’s intention to withdraw from UCLA. We respect the decision he and his family have made, and we wish him all the best in the future,” UCLA Coach Steve Alford said in a statement released by the university.
Ball, a freshman, was arrested along with Cody Riley and Jalen Hill in November for stealing sunglasses at a Louis Vuitton store in Hangzhou, China. The UCLA team was touring China ahead of a visit by Trump, who said he intervened by personally speaking with Chinese President Xi Jingping to get the players released.
Trump on Nov. 15 asked on Twitter for the players’ gratitude, which came in a news conference later that day when they also admitted to the shoplifting and apologized.
Trump then got into a public dispute with Ball’s father, LaVar Ball, the outspoken head of a sports apparel company who has two other basketball-playing sons. LaVar Ball publicly downplayed Trump’s role in freeing his son and refused to offer the praise that the president was expecting.
The slight prompted at least seven tweets from Trump over eight days in which he called the elder Ball an “ungrateful fool” and bragged that “IT WAS ME” who got the players released, sparing them from potentially up to 10 years in a Chinese prison.
LiAngelo Ball, 19, has remained suspended and has not played for UCLA, prompting LaVar Ball to announce his son would leave the university and seek to enter the National Basketball Association draft next June.
“He’s not transferring to another school. The plan is now to get Gelo ready for the NBA draft,” LaVar Ball told ESPN.
“I‘m not going to let UCLA take the fire out of my boy by not letting him play for two months,” Ball told the Los Angeles Times.
Reuters was unable to reach Ball for comment.
The oldest Ball son, Lonzo Ball, 20, also played at UCLA and was chosen second overall by the Los Angeles Lakers in the 2017 NBA draft. The youngest brother, LaMelo Ball, 16, has verbally committed to playing for UCLA.


(Reuters) - British weightlifter Sonny Webster has been banned from competing after admitting on his Facebook page on Monday that he had tested positive for the banned substance ostarine.
Webster, 23, who finished 14th in 94kg category at the Rio Olympics, has been an outspoken advocate for clean sport and said he was devastated when notified four months ago.
“I was in complete shock when I found out and I still do not know how this substance came to be in my system,” Webster said in a statement on his Facebook page. “Weightlifting is my life and everything that I live and breathe and I would never risk losing this by knowingly taking a banned substance.”
Webster said in the months since learning of his positive test he has spent his life’s savings trying to find out how the banned substance got into his system.
”The money was spent on lawyers, analysis of samples and supplements and on the legal team who did all they could to establish the source,“ said Webster. ”Whilst this has been a strain financially, I knew that I had to do all that I could in order to attempt to prove my innocence.
“If I had known the source of the ostarine, I would never have spent so much money in trying to pinpoint where it came from. This whole experience has highlighted that my integrity is worth far more than any amount of money.”
While Webster maintains his innocence, he said he will grudgingly accept a four year ban without the financial resources to appeal the decision.
”This is the largest possible ban you can receive for a doping case,“ he said. ”Given the circumstances of the test and how hard I tried to find the source I felt this length of ban was wholly unjustified in comparison to athletes who cheat intentionally in competition.
“I had attempted to appeal this further but was ultimately stopped due to future legal cost and difficulty around using new experts to perform re-testing.”


KINGSTON (Reuters) - Multiple Olympic and world champion Usain Bolt has described the unveiling of his statue in front of Kingston’s National Stadium as one of the greatest moments of his career.
The statue, commissioned by the Jamaican government and revealed by Prime Minister Andrew Holness, stands in front of the place where 15 years ago Bolt won the junior championships to announce himself to the world.
“For me this is up there, it can’t be doubted that this is one of the greatest moments in my career,” Bolt told Reuters after the unveiling on Sunday.
“Having a statue in the National Stadium where it all began; there are no words, I am just happy and really excited about this.”
The statue was sculpted by Jamaican artist Basil Watson and features the 31-year-old in his trademark ‘lightning bolt’ pose, seen many times over the years as he set world records in the 100 and 200 meters, winning 11 world and eight Olympic golds.
“It was all worth it: the losses, the injuries, everything I’ve been through, it’s all worth it,” said Bolt, who signed off his stellar career with bronze in the 100m at the world championships in London earlier this year.
“It’s a wonderful thing to look back and see what your career has brought you. I‘m very happy and proud of myself for the work. It’s just a good time and I am in a good place.”
Holness has previously said that Bolt’s performances over the years has elevated the status of Jamaican sport.
“I have always aimed to make my country proud and to put my country in the best light possible so for the Prime Minster to say that it showed that my work paid off and it’s something that I am happy about,” Bolt added. “In any way that I can continue doing that, it would be great.”
Bolt was stripped of one of his nine Olympic gold medals when his former 4x100m relay team mate Nesta Carter retroactively tested positive for the banned stimulant methylhexanamine at the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
Carter has appealed to the Court of Arbitration for Sport against the decision resulting from the doping test.
Bolt, the only sprinter to win the 100m, 200m and 4x100 relay titles at three consecutive Olympics (2008, 2012, 2016) until Carter’s test result, was not losing any sleep over the medal missing from his glittering collection.
“I haven’t really been following it (the appeal). I‘m just waiting on the time for them to say what is what. I‘m just focusing on which direction I want my career to go,” he said.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Sunday’s National Basketball Association games:
Rockets 118, Lakers 95
James Harden scored 36 points and handed out nine assists, and the Houston Rockets won their sixth consecutive road game with a 118-95 victory against the Los Angeles Lakers on Sunday.
Houston has won all six road games in the streak by at least 15 points, setting an NBA record.
Eric Gordon scored 22 points off the bench and Chris Paul finished with 21 points and six assists for the Rockets.
Kyle Kuzma had 22 points and 12 rebounds off the bench to lead the Lakers, while Brandon Ingram had 18 points and nine rebounds.
Warriors 123, Heat 95
Stephen Curry scored 30 points to lead Golden State to a win over Miami.
The Warriors, who are 3-0 on their current road trip, also got 24 points from Kevin Durant and 19 from Klay Thompson. Curry, who scored 16 points in the first quarter, made 11 of 16 shots from the floor, including 5 of 9 on 3-pointers.
The Heat were led by point guard Goran Dragic, who broke a slump with 20 points on 7-for-10 shooting. In his three previous games, Dragic failed to score in double figures, averaging 6.7 points on 30 percent shooting.
Thunder 90, Spurs 87
Russell Westbrook had his seventh triple-double of the season, leading Oklahoma past a San Antonio team depleted by injuries and other absences.
Russell finished with 22 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists but committed seven turnovers. Steven Adams added 19 points and 10 boards for the Thunder.
Dejounte Murray led the Spurs with 17 points and 11 rebounds. Davis Bertans added 16 points and five blocks. Already without All-Star forward Kawhi Leonard, the Spurs sat forwards LaMarcus Aldridge and Rudy Gay, and guards Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili.
Timberwolves 112, Clippers 106
Jimmy Butler scored a season-high 33 points, including 20 in the fourth quarter, as Minnesota recovered and held on to beat Los Angeles.
Karl-Anthony Towns had his league-leading 19th double-double with 15 points and 12 rebounds and Taj Gibson added 20 points and 11 rebounds for Minnesota, which surrendered the lead in the fourth before Butler came to the rescue.
Austin Rivers scored 30 points, tying a career best with seven 3-pointers, for the shorthanded Clippers. DeAndre Jordan had 17 points and 12 rebounds for Los Angeles, which is without four injured starters in Blake Griffin, Patrick Beverley, Danilo Gallinari and Milos Teodosic.
Magic 105, Knicks 101
Nikola Vucevic scored 34 points and Orlando grabbed an early 17-point lead en route to just its second win in the last 12 games.
Evan Fournier had 20 and Jonathan Simmons added 16 as all five Magic starters scored in double figures. Orlando’s starting lineup accounted for 95 of the team’s 105 points.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Sunday’s National Hockey League games:
Jets 5, Senators 0
The Winnipeg Jets made sure their stay atop the standings in the Western Conference was more than a 48-hour thing with an utterly dominant 5-0 victory over the Ottawa Senators on Sunday night at Bell MTS Place.
The Jets improved to 17-6-4, good for 38 points, one ahead of the Los Angeles Kings.
Connor Hellebuyck stopped 21 shots for his first shutout of the season, while Ottawa’s Mike Condon was pulled after giving up five goals on 22 shots. Craig Anderson weathered the storm the rest of the way, stopping all 27 shots he faced.
Blake Wheeler had a goal and three assists for the Senators, who got a goal and two assists from Mathieu Perreault plus a goal and one assist from Mark Scheifele. Tyler Myers and Patrik Laine added goals.
Golden Knights 3, Coyotes 2 (OT)
Reilly Smith scored at 3:51 of overtime to give Vegas a victory over Arizona.
Smith took a pass from Jonathan Marchessault on the edge of the left circle and rifled a shot past Arizona goalie Scott Wedgewood. The win snapped a three-game losing streak for the Golden Knights, who improved to 5-0 in overtime.
Marchessault and Alex Tuch also scored goals for Vegas while Malcolm Subban had 31 saves in net to pick up the win. Wedgewood stopped 42 shots for the Coyotes, who got goals from Jakob Chychrun and Derek Stepan.
Stars 7, Avalanche 2
Tyler Seguin and Brent Ritchie scored two goals each, Devin Shore had a goal and an assist, and streaking Dallas beat Colorado.
Jason Spezza and Greg Pateryn also scored, Alexander Radulov and John Klingberg had two assists each, and Kari Lehtonen made 25 saves for Dallas. The Stars won their fifth in a row and their seven in the past eight.
Mikko Rantanen and Blake Comeau had goals for the Avalanche. Colorado starting goalie Jonathan Bernier was replaced after allowing five goals on nine shots.
Kings 3, Blackhawks 1
Christian Folin snapped a scoreless tie midway through the third period, and goaltender Jonathan Quick shined, helping Los Angeles to a victory against Chicago.
The Kings earned their fifth consecutive victory.


ANAHEIM (Reuters) - Chile’s Arley Mendez returned from more than four years of international competitive exile to defeat Iran’s Olympic champion Kianoush Rostami in the men’s 85 kilogram class at weightlifting’s World Championships on Sunday, while Sohrab Moradi broke two world records in the 94kg class.
Mendez, who never returned home after competing for his native Cuba in the Pan American Junior Championships in Santiago in 2013, posted a total of 378kg to win gold ahead of Poland’s Krzysztof Zwarycz (359kg). Italy’s Antonino Pizzolato lifted 358 kgs to clinch third.
Mendez was only granted citizenship by Chile this year.
He could have also taken Rostami’s clean and jerk world record had he not failed with his final attempt at 221kg.
“My finger got stuck on the bar, a technical problem,” said Mendez. “Next year the records will come. I prepared well and I knew I would win here.”
Rostami, who injured his left knee last week, missed all three clean and jerk attempts and failed to register a total.
Moradi, who won gold in Rio last year, broke two world records in winning the 94 kilogram class, to take an easy win over Lithuania’s Aurimas Didzbalis by 29 kilograms.
Iran’s Seyedayoob Mousavijahari was in third place, three kilograms behind the Lithuanian.
The 29-year-old Moradi jumped from 220kg to 233kg on his fifth lift to break the clean and jerk world record of 232kg set in 2000 by Poland’s Szymon Kolecki, and better by four kilograms his own world record for the total, which he improved to 417kg.
”I wanted to surprise everybody and I did,“ said Moradi. ”I am proud to make every Iranian across the world very happy.”
In the women’s 75 kilogram class, Spain’s Lydia Valentin, a medalist at the past three Olympic Games, was the clear winner on 258kg from Ecuador’s Neisi Dajomes on 240kg with France’s Gaelle Ketchanke a further three kilograms behind.


(The Sports Xchange) - Shohei Ohtani is regarded as the “Babe Ruth of Japan” but he will not playing for the New York Yankees.
Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said Sunday night that the agents for Ohtani told him the two-way star is not signing with New York.
The Yankees were not the only team to learn they would not be in the running for Ohtani.
According to the Boston Globe, the Boston Red Sox were informed they were eliminated from the bidding. Other media reports indicated that the Toronto Blue Jays, Pittsburgh Pirates, Minnesota Twins, Milwaukee Brewers and New York Mets are out of the sweepstakes.
Media reports indicated that the Seattle Mariners and San Francisco Giants are among nine teams to be granted a meeting with Ohtani.
Cashman told reporters that Ohtani seems to prefer West Coast teams and smaller markets.
A World Series championship celebration may have come at a cost for Dallas Keuchel.
The 29-year-old Houston Astros ace has suffered a “minor (left) foot sprain” and is in a walking boot, reportedly the result of an injury he sustained during the team’s World Series title parade last month.
Keuchel told TMZ he slipped during the celebration. The Chronicle reports Keuchel is expected to be ready for spring training in the middle of February.
The San Diego Padres signed general manager A.J. Preller to a three-year contract extension through the 2022 season, the team announced Sunday.
Preller was originally named GM of the Padres on Aug. 6, 2014.


LONDON (Reuters) - Red Bull junior driver Dan Ticktum put McLaren in an awkward position on Sunday after winning a coveted award that includes a Formula One test drive and simulator role with the Woking-based team.
Macau Formula Three Grand Prix winner Ticktum, 18, beat three other young Britons to win the McLaren Autosport BRDC Award.
Previous winners include 2009 Formula One world champion Jenson Button and three times Indianapolis 500 winner Dario Franchitti.
Last year’s winner Lando Norris is now the McLaren Formula One reserve driver.
Ticktum, however, has been contracted to rivals Red Bull since the start of the year and has been in that team’s simulator already.
McLaren sources told Reuters the prize would be honored, with Ticktum probably getting to drive a 2013 Formula One car, but a meaningful factory simulator role with them was out of the question.
McLaren and Red Bull will both have the same Renault engines next year after the former ended a three-year partnership with Honda.
Ticktum was still delighted to be the 29th recipient of the award, whose first winner was now-retired Formula One racer David Coulthard back in 1989.
“I had an amazing weekend in Macau and this has exceeded that,” said the Briton, who was handed a part-suspended two year ban in 2015 for ignoring safety car conditions. “I cannot put into words how proud I am right now.”
“People know I had a tough career to start with and there have been some very important people who believed in me, particularly Red Bull, (team principal) Christian Horner, (Red Bull consultant) Dr Helmut Marko,” he added.
“They’ve given me a chance and I hope I can do them proud.”
Mercedes’s four times Formula One world champion Lewis Hamilton, who did not attend, sent a video message after being named best international racing driver and British competition driver.
There was also an award for retired Brazilian triple world champion Nelson Piquet, who struggled to contain his emotions, honoring his contribution to motorsport.
Piquet was presented with his award by former Brabham designer Gordon Murray, whose cars took him to his first two titles in 1981 and 1983. The third crown was won with Williams in 1987.
“It is much easier to race than to see your son racing,” said Piquet, whose son and namesake also competed in Formula One and was the first champion in the Formula E electric series in 2014-15.


ANAHEIM (Reuters) - A New Zealand transgender lifter will go for gold against an American Olympic medalist when the super-heavyweight classes bring the weightlifting World Championships to a close on Tuesday.
Laurel Hubbard, 39, who competed nationally as Gavin Hubbard, has a perfect record since returning to competition after changing gender four years ago.
She has won the three events in which she has taken part, all in Australia, since her debut in international weightlifting last March and is in New Zealand’s team for the Commonwealth Games on Australia’s Gold Coast next April.
Based on the world rankings, Hubbard should be a gold-medal contender in the +90 kg class at the worlds where home hopes rest with Sarah Robles, from San Diego, who was third at the Rio Olympics last year.
Many of the world’s best super-heavyweight women are not competing because nine nations are banned for multiple doping offences. The Olympic gold and silver medalists are absent.
Hubbard complies with the conditions put in place by the International Olympic Committee (IOC), whose procedures on transgender athletes are followed by the International Weightlifting Federation (IWF).
Her presence in women’s weightlifting has irked rivals. Tim Swords, Robles’s coach, said: “I do not want to say anything negative, but in my humble opinion this is not fair.”
Tracey Lambrechs, who lost her place as New Zealand’s top super-heavyweight when Hubbard started competing, shed 17 kilos to move down to the 90kg class and qualify for the Commonwealth Games with one national team place available in each category.
Lambrechs said Hubbard had an unfair advantage because of her history as a male lifter and recently told Radio NZ: “All I can hope is that they look into it and make a more educated judgment.”
Australian Weightlifting Federation chief executive, Michael Keelan, told the Australian Associated Press last week: “We’re in a power sport which is normally related to masculine tendencies. I don’t think it’s a level playing field. That’s my personal view and I think it’s shared by a lot of people in the sporting world.”
Because of the controversy Hubbard, whose father Dick is a former mayor of Auckland, has not spoken to the media since she began competing internationally, and has declined interview requests.
“She has said she does not want to take the focus away from other athletes,” said IWF director general Attila Adamfi.
Under the IOC regulations a male-to-female transgender athlete must show, from a period starting one year before her first competition and ending when she finishes her competitive career, that her total testosterone level is below 10 nanomols per liter.
The low point of the normal range of testosterone levels for males is 9.16 nanomols per liter, according to research published by the Endocrine Society this year.
The IOC might review its regulations when the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) had considered evidence from new research relating to female track and field athletes with high testosterone levels, said Adamfi.
Ursula Garza Papandrea, chair of the IWF Women’s Commission and president of USA Weightlifting, said the presence of Hubbard “certainly has the potential to draw a lot of controversy”.
But she added: “The rules are the rules and if it’s in the rules that’s what we go by. Whether those rules are fair or not fair is not for us to decide, it’s for the policy creators to decide.”
In the men’s super-heavyweights, Iranian Saeed Alihosseini returns to competition after an eight-year doping ban.
Alihosseini, 29, who still holds the junior world records he set in 2008, was originally banned for life but successfully appealed and, since 2011 when CAS reduced the suspension to eight years, has trained at his father’s gym.


TOKYO (Reuters) - Former world number two Kento Momota will be restored to the top tier of Japan’s national badminton team next season as he continues his long rehabilitation from a gambling scandal that ruled him out of the Rio Olympics, local media reported.
“He has returned to about the level he was at before this trouble occurred,” Kyodo news agency quoted Japan head coach Park Joo Bong as saying.
“Our big goal is the (2020) Tokyo Olympics.”
Momota became the first Japanese to win a men’s singles world championship medal when he claimed bronze at Jakarta in 2015 and also won the Super Series Masters Final that year.
His career stumbled, however, when he was banned from the national team in April, 2016, for visiting an illegal casino and missed last year’s Rio Games.
The 23-year-old only returned to international competition in July at the Canada Open and has been restricted to playing in lower-level tournaments.
Badminton power Japan claimed a gold and a bronze at the Rio Games to finish second on the medals table behind China.


(The Sports Xchange) - San Jose Sharks center Joe Thornton was fined $5,000 for slashing Tampa Bay Lightning forward Tyler Johnson during Saturday night’s game, the NHL’s Department of Player Safety announced Sunday.
The fine is the maximum allowable under the collective bargaining agreement. The money goes to the Players’ Emergency Assistance Fund.
The Dallas Stars placed center Martin Hanzal on injured reserve due to a hamstring injury, the team announced.
Hanzal, 30, suffered the injury on Tuesday against the Vegas Golden Knights. The move is retroactive to Nov. 28.
Hanzal has just three points (one goal, two assists) and 13 penalty minutes in 19 games this season.
The Stars also recalled forward Jason Dickinson from the Texas Stars of the American Hockey League.
The Columbus Blue Jackets assigned left winger Sonny Milano to the Cleveland Monsters of the American Hockey League.
Milano, 21, has five goals, five assists and four penalty minutes in 24 games with the Blue Jackets this season. He has an assist in one contest with the Monsters.
Milano owns 11 points (five goals, six assists) and four penalty minutes in 31 career NHL games with the Blue Jackets. He has 84 points (32 goals, 52 assists) in 128 career AHL games with the Monsters and Springfield Falcons.
The Edmonton Oilers claimed defenseman Brandon Davidson off waivers from the Montreal Canadiens.
Davidson, 26, appeared in 13 games with the Canadiens this season, posting one assist and nine penalty minutes.
The 6-foot-2, 208-pound native of Taber, Alberta, was originally selected by the Oilers in the sixth round of the 2010 NHL draft. He appeared in 91 games with the Oilers from 2014-17, recording 13 points (five goals, eight assists).
The Arizona Coyotes recalled defenseman Jakob Chychrun from the Tucson Roadrunners of the American Hockey League.
Chychrun, 19, has been out since suffering a knee injury before the start of training camp. He recorded 20 points (seven goals, 13 assists) and 47 penalty minutes in 68 games with the Coyotes last season.


(Reuters) - Tiger Woods proved he could be competitive again after playing some of the best golf of his comeback with a final-round four-under 68 to tie for ninth at the Hero World Challenge in the Bahamas on Sunday.
No one could match Rickie Fowler, though. The world number nine birdied his first seven holes and won the elite event by four strokes thanks to a course record 11-under par 61 that left him at 18-under 270.
Woods was 10 strokes back but he had plenty of smiles as he answered the question of how he would do in his first tournament in nearly 10 months following spinal fusion surgery.
Pain free, the former world number one struck for six birdies and an eagle at the Albany course before two closing bogeys. He also had a double bogey in the elite 18-man event that featured eight of the world’s top 10.
“I showed some good signs,” Woods told NBC Sports after finishing the four days at eight-under 280. “I hit some really good shots out there (and am ready for) a bright future.... and no pain.”
The latter was especially important to the 41-year-old who once dominated the sport.
“I’ve had some tough times through the years with my back and then finally to come out on the good side and (be) able to get back out there and play. It’s pretty cool,” he said.
He also spoke positively about the future.
“When I was struggling with my back, the world seemed very small. Day to day stuff was very difficult for me to do,” Woods said. “Now I am able to sit back and enjoy it a little bit more... It’s been really nice.”
He and his team will now sit down to determine how best to build his 2018 schedule for major championships.
“Play enough, but not play too much,” Woods said.
“I don’t know what golf courses I will be playing, what’s the best way to go about it. ...We’ll figure it out.”
He definitely had the Albany course figured over the first nine holes on Sunday.
The day after a bogey-filled front nine, Woods showed flashes of his old self with three birdies and an eagle to make the turn at five-under 31.
Reality returned at 10 where he had a double-bogey at the par-four hole. But the 79 times PGA Tour winner struck back with birdies at 11, 14 and 15 before bogeys at 17 and 18.
Fowler was looking at a seven-stroke deficit when he began his round but seven straight birdies and another at the ninth put him in front at the turn, which he made in eight-under 28.
He added three more birdies on the back nine for a sizzling, bogey-free round.
“I knew I needed to get off to a quick start today to at least show (overnight leader) Charley Hoffman) I was there,” Fowler said. “We took care of that and kept it rolling.”
Hoffman, who started the day with a five-stroke lead, shot  72 and faded to second at 274. England’s Tommy Fleetwood (67) and Jordan Spieth (69) tied for third at 12-under 276.


(Reuters) - Austrian Marcel Hirscher dominated the World Cup giant slalom event at Beaver Creek on Sunday, winning his 23rd career race in the discipline on a windy and warm day at the Birds of Prey course in Colorado.
Showing no lingering issues from the left ankle fracture he suffered in a training fall in August, the 28-year-old completed his two runs in two minutes 37.30 seconds, nearly a second faster than second-place finisher, Norway’s Henrik Kristoffersen (2:38.18).
Germany’s Stefan Luitz (2:38.33) finished third.
“The last two weeks have been really intense trying to find my speed and my confidence, because when you’re injured you lose a lot of confidence,” Hirscher said.
“It is really unbelievable but it’s just one step further on the way back.”
The win puts Hirscher one career World Cup win behind American Ted Ligety, his longtime rival who is still trying to find his form since coming back from back surgery in January.
Ligety (2:38.66), whose shaky second trip down the course landed him with a disappointing seventh-place finish, said his back felt fine during the race but he was undone by the course’s slow, “grippy” snow on an unusually warm day.
With two months to go before the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, Hirscher will hope his giant slalom dominance will translate into Olympic gold.
Despite being the winner of a record six straight overall World Cup season titles, Hirscher has just one Olympic medal to his name, a silver in slalom from the Sochi Games in 2014.


(Reuters) - A troublesome start dominated by bogeys proved costly for Tiger Woods as he struggled to a three-over par 75 in the third round of the Hero World Challenge in the Bahamas on Saturday.
After two strong rounds put the former world number one in contention for his first win since 2013, Woods recorded four of his five bogeys in the first seven holes to slip to 10th at four-under 212, 10 strokes behind leader Charley Hoffman.
Woods, in his first tournament in nearly 10 months following spinal fusion surgery, said he had some bad breaks on Saturday and that his game was better than his scorecard suggested.
“Anything I did right ended up in a bad spot, then everything I did wrong, it was really bad,” Woods told NBC television.
”I’ve got to keep fighting and that is one thing I have always done in my entire career. That’s keep fighting and try and post the best number I possibly could.
“I really didn’t feel I was that far off. That’s the crazy part ... I just ended up in bad spots after good shots.”
Only in the closing five holes, where Woods twice had birdies and narrowly missed a third at the last, did the 41-year-old show he could again be a factor at the elite 18-man event that features eight of the world’s top 10.
”It feels good to be out here fighting again,“ he said. ”I’ve missed the fight and getting out there and competing, fighting against the golf course and the guys.
“It’s so much fun.”
Breezy conditions made sub-par rounds difficult at the Albany course with overnight leader Hoffman one of the few to deliver, surging to a five-stroke lead after a birdie at 18 for a two-under 70 and a 202 total.
Jordan Spieth (72) and England’s Justin Rose (71) were tied for second at nine-under 207, one stroke ahead of Italy’s Francesco Molinari (71).
The troubles for Woods started early on Saturday as he took bogeys at the first and third holes before further miscues at six and seven saw him post a four-over 40 for the front nine.
That contrasted sharply with Friday when he took nine shots less to finish the front nine.
“The shot that really threw me for a loop was the shot at three,” Woods said. “I hit the most beautiful three wood that went 300 yards in the wind.”
But he wound up with a bogey.
Woods finally picked up a shot at the 14th, doffing his hat to the crowd in relief, before carding another birdie at the par-three 17th.
“It’s ridiculous,” he said. “It took me 14 holes to make a birdie. At that time I had already played four par-fives and nothing happened.”


(Reuters) - American Mikaela Shiffrin notched up her first career World Cup win in downhill at Canada’s Lake Louise on Saturday, one day after reaching her first ever podium in the discipline.
The 22-year-old skiing prodigy completed the course in one minute 27.55 seconds in just her fourth career downhill race.
Germany’s Viktoria Rebensburg, in 1:27.68, finished second and Michelle Gisin (1:27.72) of Switzerland was third.
Shiffrin now leads the women’s overall World Cup standings as well as the downhill standings with just over two months to go until the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang.
The win comes less than a week after Shiffrin won the World Cup slalom for the second year in a row at Killington in Vermont. She now has 33 career World Cup wins.
A day after suffering a nasty crash toward the end of her run, fellow American Lindsey Vonn (1:28.48) took a conservative approach to the course, where she is an 18-time champion.
The veteran Vonn, who skied with a brace on her right knee, finished tied in 12th with Italy’s Verena Stuffer and was almost a second behind Shiffrin.
While Vonn completed the course without incident, her team mate Breezy Johnson was not so lucky.
The 21-year-old American slid out after hitting a bump during a turn but skied off the course under her own power.
The start of Saturday’s race was delayed by an hour and 15 minutes due to a power outage at the resort caused by a fire at a substation.
The outage meant the skiers had to ride in snowcats or get towed to the top of the hill for the start.
Speed events continue at Lake Louise on Sunday with the first women’s super-G of the season.


(Reuters) - Aksel Svindal was the first out of the gate at the downhill race in Beaver Creek on Saturday and never relinquished the lead as he cruised to his 33rd career World Cup win.
The tall, powerful Norwegian pushed hard out of the starting gate and sped down the quick Birds of Prey course in one minute 40:46 seconds for his sixth career win at the Colorado resort.
“When you’re going first you’re not going to get a course report so you really need to be committed,” the 34-year-old veteran said. “If you can do that I think it is an advantage.”
Svindal, the 2010 Olympic super-G gold medalist and five-time world champion, appears in top form after his previous two seasons were cut short due to knee injuries.
Svindal edged Beat Feuz (1:40.61) of Switzerland, who won the season-opening men’s downhill at Lake Louise a week ago. German Thomas Dressen (1:40.95) finished third.
A memorial was set up on the course mourning the death of French skier David Poisson, who died in a training accident in Alberta on Nov. 13.
Adrien Theaux (1:41.26) was the fastest Frenchman down the course on Saturday, finishing eighth after posting the quickest time in training on Wednesday at Beaver Creek.


LONDON (Reuters) - Liverpool and Chelsea maintained their pursuit of runaway Premier League leaders Manchester City with comfortable wins on Saturday but Tottenham Hotspur dropped further off the pace with a disappointing 1-1 draw at Watford.
With City home to West Ham United on Sunday, and Arsenal and Manchester United facing each other later on Saturday, Liverpool showed their continuing menace by thumping Brighton and Hove Albion 5-1. Juergen Klopp’s side have now scored 15 goals in four away games in all competitions.
The German made even more changes than his team scored goals, leaving out six of the side who beat Stoke City 3-0 in midweek.
Liverpool were not weakened and after stand-in center half Emre Can put them ahead with a bullet header, Roberto Firmino hit a double, Philippe Coutinho scored from a free kick and Brighton’s Lewis Dunk headed into his own net. With the visitors three up, Glenn Murray’s 51st-minute penalty was not enough to spark Liverpool’s usual defensive jitters.
Earlier, Chelsea came from behind to sweep past Newcastle United 3-1 at Stamford Bridge.
After Dwight Gayle gave Newcastle the lead, Belgium’s Eden Hazard produced nine shots, six on target, and two goals in a display that, according to Newcastle manager Rafa Benitez, made the difference against a side who have now gone six games without a win.
Hazard also provided a potent reminder of what England can expect when they face Belgium in the World Cup in Russia next year.
At Vicarage Road, Spurs clung on for a 1-1 draw with their near neighbors after Davinson Sanchez was sent off for elbowing Brazilian Richarlison at the start of the second half. The goals came early with Christian Kabasele’s opener for Watford canceled out by Son Heung-min. Spurs are now four points behind Liverpool and 15 adrift of leaders City.
Elsewhere, Sam Allardyce and Alan Pardew both looked to deliver the new manager bounce in their first match in charge for their clubs but only Everton delivered three points in a routine 2-0 win over Huddersfield Town.
Gylfi Sigurdsson and Dominic Calvert-Lewin scored second-half goals to give Allardyce a winning start two days after he signed an 18-month contract at Everton. But the performance was short on quality and the 63-year-old will have work to do before next Sunday’s derby visit to free-scoring Liverpool.
Pardew’s first match in charge of West Bromwich Albion ended in a 0-0 home draw with Crystal Palace, who were replaced at the foot of the Premier League by Swansea City, 2-1 losers at Stoke.
The visitors went ahead through Wilfried Bony’s first goal for them in nearly two years before Xherdan Shaqiri and Mame Biram Diouf turned the game to increase the pressure on Swansea manager Paul Clement after his side’s 10th league defeat of the season.
Demarai Gray got on the end of Riyad Mahrez’s cross to give Leicester a 1-0 win over Burnley that continued the Foxes’ bright start under Claude Puel. Burnley’s bad day was made worse by an injury to Robbie Brady, who was stretchered off before the break.


ARESE, Italy (Reuters) - Formula Two champion Charles Leclerc will move up to Formula One with Alfa Romeo-backed Sauber next season while Marcus Ericcson stays in the lineup despite the Swede failing to score a point in 2017.
The announcement was made by Fiat Chrysler (FCA) chief executive Sergio Marchionne on Saturday at a presentation of Alfa Romeo’s new partnership with the Swiss team at the Italian marque’s museum near Milan.
That deal, marking the return of the historic Alfa Romeo name to Formula One after a more than 30-year absence, was announced earlier in the week.
Saturday’s event showed off a new red and white livery, with Alfa Romeo branding prominent on the engine cover, and a redesigned logo.
The lineup leaves Pascal Wehrlein, Ericsson’s German team mate, facing an uncertain future with former champions Williams the only remaining team with a vacancy but Poland’s Robert Kubica favorite to fill it.
Ferrari-backed Leclerc, 20 and from Monaco, had been expected to get the Sauber drive after a dominant season in the official feeder series.
Ericsson’s future had been in doubt, with Ferrari-backed Italian Antonio Giovinazzi also a candidate under the new partnership.
Giovinazzi will be the reserve driver instead, taking part in Friday practice sessions.
Marchionne, who is also chairman of Sauber’s engine suppliers Ferrari, has made the title sponsorship of Sauber part of his reshaping of the FCA-owned Alfa Romeo brand.
Fiat Chrysler have invested billions of euros since 2014 to develop new Alfa Romeo models that would stand up against German premium rivals and shed a reputation for poor quality and service that has hit sales in the past decade.
“Formula One is the natural reference point for a marque like this,” he said.
Marchionne added that the partnership would also strengthen his hand in talks with Formula One about the sport’s future and warned that the deal could end in 2021 if Ferrari decided to walk away as they have threatened.
“Now there is the additional benefit that when we sit down at the table to discuss the future of Formula One, we’re playing two marques,” he told reporters. “I think the guns are loaded in a different way.”
Formula One chairman Chase Carey and former Ferrari boss Jean Todt, president of the governing FIA, both attended the presentation.
In a speech, Marchionne also thanked Sauber Holding chairman Pascal Picci and Swedish billionaire Finn Rausing for their support in reaching a deal that should boost a team that finished last overall this year.
“It’s an amazing opportunity for me but also for the team,” said Ericsson, whose financial support has long been linked to Rausing and the Tetra Laval packaging group.
“I think obviously we’re starting from quite far behind because we had a difficult season, but I think we have the potential to take a good step forward.”
Alfa Romeo have a strong heritage in Formula One with the first two world championships in 1950 and 1951 won by Italian Giuseppe ‘Nino’ Farina and Argentine Juan Manuel Fangio in their cars.
Ferrari’s late founder Enzo also started out racing and managing a team for Alfa Romeo, before setting up on his own in the late 1930s.
Alfa Romeo supplied engines in the 1960s and 1970s and returned as a constructor in 1979 before again withdrawing at the end of 1985.


(Reuters) - South Africa’s Louis de Jager joined overnight leader Arjun Atwal of India at the top of the leaderboard after the Mauritius Open third round on Saturday and the pair will take a one-shot lead into Sunday’s final round of the European Tour event in Domaine del Bel Ombre.
The 30-year-old De Jager, seeking a first European Tour success, hit four birdies in a blemish-free 67 to join Atwal on 13 under par after 54 holes.
The Indian had carded a course-record 62 in Thursday’s first round not long after completing a 16-hour journey to Mauritius and shot 68 in the third round.
Dylan Frittelli of South Africa and Miguel Tabuena from the Philippines were a stroke back in third place.
South Africa’s former British Open champion Louis Oosthuizen was in a group of 16 players within five strokes of the leaders.


HONG KONG (Reuters) - Sam Bird won Formula E’s season-opening race in Hong Kong on Saturday despite the Briton being forced to serve a drive-through penalty after crashing his all-electric DS-Virgin Racing car in the pit lane.
The 30-year-old claimed a sixth career win by 11.575 seconds from pole winner Jean-Eric Vergne following the incident when switching to his second car.
Bird was penalized for not stopping in the garage, but retained his lead after his drive-through as season four of the series began in dramatic fashion around the harbourside streets.
“That was very stressful,” said the driver, who had to see stewards afterwards and will have a 10-place grid penalty for Sunday’s second race.
”I‘m finding it hard to process what happened as it’s not very often you win after a drive-through penalty in FE. I’m amazed to have won really.
“I thought I’d come out P7 (seventh) or P8 and I got on the radio asking what position I was in. They said ‘You’re in P1, keep going’...I never expected we’d dominate round one, but I’ll take that.”
Bird took the lead just before his pit-stop on the 43-lap race, cutting past Vergne’s Techeetah car at a chicane on the 1.86km circuit.
But he overshot his stop and rammed into the side of the Virgin garage, forcing a couple of team personnel to jump out of the way.
The short pit lane helped him emerge just ahead of Vergne and Germany’s Nick Heidfeld, who were scrapping for second place.
“I hit quite a lot going into the garage,” Bird added. “The pit-lane is really filthy dirty and I tried to attack my pit-box as they have given us an almost impossible amount of time to do the pit-stop. But the car just went straight.”
Frenchman Vergne, a former Toro Rosso Formula One driver who claimed his maiden win in season three’s finale in Montreal, struggled with a lack of information about his energy levels but held onto second place.
“This race was my most difficult,” he said. “Finishing second is more like a win for us. For the long term thinking of the championship sometimes you have to finish second, third or fourth and just take the points.”
The series’ had its first red flag in 35 races after a four-car log-jam on the opening lap and the race was suspended for more than 30 minutes before resuming under the safety car.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Adidas expects a big increase in sales of soccer jerseys from the 2018 World Cup in Russia helped by its sponsorship of three of the top teams, the German sportswear maker’s chief executive was quoted as saying on Saturday.
“In football, we are the clear market leader worldwide and are sponsoring 11 teams at the World Cup next year,” Kasper Rorsted told the Rheinische Post newspaper in an interview.
“Overall, I expect a big increase in Adidas jersey sales in 2018 because of the World Cup. I hope that our teams go as far as possible. After all, we are kitting out three of the favorites with Germany, Spain and Argentina.”
Adidas is the official sponsor of the World Cup and has long been the top supplier of soccer shirts, shoes and balls.
But at the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, arch rival Nike sponsored more teams for the first time, including the hosts, and signed more of the most marketable players.
Adidas has since enjoyed a big comeback, taking market share from Nike in the United States, and revamping its soccer business. It is back in the lead with the most teams sponsored at the World Cup, including hosts Russia.
Nike’s top teams at the World Cup include France and Brazil, which is joint favorite with Germany to win, while sportswear firm Puma has only two sides in the tournament - Uruguay and Switzerland, down from eight in 2014.
Rorsted said Adidas should not focus too much on Nike.
“This is not a tennis match with two players, where only one can be victorious. We are focusing on our own business and always improving. It makes no sense to declare our main goal as beating Nike,” he said.


ANAHEIM (Reuters) - The United States’ long wait for a men’s weightlifting World Championships medal goes on after their big hope, teenager Clarence ‘CJ’ Cummings, failed to register a total on Friday.
The 17-year-old, a four times world champion at youth and junior level, failed in all three clean and jerk attempts in the 69 kilograms class, which was won by South Korean Won Jeong-sik with a total of 326kg. Tairat Bunsuk of Thailand was second (321kg) and Frenchman Bernardin Matam third (318).
Tunisian Karem Ben Hnia, who topped the rankings and had been expected to challenge for gold, also failed to register a total.
The last American man to win a World Championships medal was Wes Barnett, who was third in the now defunct 108kg class in 1997. Cummings was seen as the leading contender to end the 20-year wait.
Mattie Rogers, in Saturday’s 69 kg, and Sarah Robles in Tuesday’s super-heavyweights, are the top female medal contenders for the host nation.
The first European winner of the Championships, Romania’s Loredana-Elena Toma, timed her victory well in the women’s 63 kg class as it came on National Day in her homeland.
Toma, the European champion, was a clear winner on 237kg ahead of two Colombians, Lina Rivas and Mercedes Perez.


(Reuters) - Jordan Zunic fired 11 birdies in 16 holes on his way to matching the course record with an eight-under 64 before a late lapse left him three shots clear after the third round of the Australian PGA Championship on Saturday.
The 25-year-old, who won the 2015 New Zealand Open shortly after turning professional, was well on target for an even more remarkable round until he dropped three shots on his final two holes at the Royal Pines Resort in Queensland.
Zunic sits on 17-under for the tournament with one round remaining, while fellow Australian and playing partner Cameron Smith is alone in second after shooting a five-under 67 in the co-sanctioned Australasian and European Tour event.
Second round leader Adam Bland is a further shot back in third after the left-hander signed for a one-under 71. Fellow Australians David Bransdon (66) and Marc Leishman (74) are tied for fourth at 10-under 206.
”Obviously not the way I planned to finish,“ Zunic told reporters. ”It was 16 amazing holes and to be honest I didn’t think I did anything too wrong in the final two holes.
“It was an unbelievable day out there.”
Zunic, who was involved in a near-fatal car crash in the United States four years ago that left him with serious head and elbow injuries, played impeccable golf until the 17th where he produced a bogey-five.
He had made seven birdies on the front nine, including four in a row from the sixth, before making four more successive birdies from the 13th.
His storming run was halted on the penultimate hole before he found a fairway bunker on 18 and needed two putts to get down for a double-bogey six, while Smith saved par after a superb greenside chip left him less than two meters from the pin.
”He put on a bit of display for the first 13 or 14 holes,“ Smith said of Zunic’s round. ”It was pretty incredible to watch and he was just a magician on the greens, I think he only had 15 putts in the first 14 holes.
“But I didn’t let Jordan’s round get ahead of me and kept on doing what I was doing. I knew I was playing well and putting well and made the most of my chances.”
U.S. Masters champion Sergio Garcia was alone in seventh on eight-under 208 after shooting 70, the Spaniard mixing four birdies with two bogeys.
The final round will begin early on Sunday due to predicted thunderstorms for the Gold Coast region later in the day.


(Reuters) - Simone Biles recently resumed training for the first time in over a year with her eyes set squarely on the 2020 Tokyo Olympics where one of the greatest gymnasts of all time expects to be a mentor on the U.S. team.
Biles, whose four gold medals at the 2016 Rio Games capped a run of dominance unlike anything the gymnastics world has seen, did not say whether she felt she could repeat that success in Tokyo but did acknowledge her changing role.
“It’s very important to be a mentor, especially if we have any newcomers and to show them the ropes and tell them that it’s going to be okay and boost their confidence on a stage that large,” Biles, 20, said in a telephone interview from Cincinnati on Friday.
“So I feel like that’s my role going into these next few years, being a mentor during championships and worlds and all of those international meets before the Games again.”
Biles has been an elite gymnast since 2011 and after taking a break to enjoy life away from the gym, she is now training and planning to make her return at the U.S. Classic in late July.
She will compete on the balance beam and uneven bars when she makes her competitive comeback but will add floor and vault a few weeks later at the national championships.
According to Biles, she still has all her skills and while getting back to her routine was not incredibly hard it did come with its fair share of challenges.
“The first day (back) I was doing some skills and it was going pretty smoothly but then it all catches up to you and by the third day I could barely walk. So that was no fun,” said Biles. “But now it’s been pretty good.”
For Biles, her plan all along was to take time off exploring the world with family and friends after Rio with the ultimate goal of returning fresher, both physically and mentally, before resuming training.
By the time the Tokyo Olympics roll around Biles will be 23, which is considered rather old by elite women’s gymnastics standards, but she is not letting that deter her.
She hopes that by having avoided for over a year the wear and tear that intense training takes on a body it will allow her to continue competing at a high level for a few more years.
Biles said she expects the Tokyo Games to be her final competition and while she would love to go out on top she was not ready to unveil her goals.
“It’s kind of hard to set a bar only because I know what other people expect and what I have set for myself and sometimes that doesn’t link up eye to eye,” said Biles, who is promoting Hershey’s Gold, the fourth flavor unveiled in the history of the chocolate maker.
”So it’s kind of like finding the balance between pleasing everybody and also doing what I love to do and making my goals.
“But it’s also very different because I am older, it’ll be a new time coming, the rules have changed a little bit as well so we will just have to see.”


(Reuters) - Below are the odds for who will win the 2018 World Cup in Russia following the group stage draw at the Kremlin in Moscow on Friday.
Germany    9/2
Brazil     5/1
France     11/2
Argentina  8/1
Spain      8/1
Belgium    12/1
England    20/1
Portugal   28/1
Uruguay    28/1
Colombia   28/1
(Source: William Hill)


LONDON (Reuters) - Alfa Romeo’s return to Formula One shows the value of the sport and suggests Ferrari will not follow through on threats to leave, according to Red Bull principal Christian Horner.
Alfa Romeo is part of the Fiat Chrysler group whose chief executive Sergio Marchionne is also the head of sportscar maker Ferrari, who are Formula One’s most successful and glamorous team.
The Swiss Sauber team announced on Thursday that the Italian marque was returning to the sport as their title sponsor after a 30-year absence, with the team to be known as Alfa Romeo Sauber F1 from next season.
“They (Alfa) come under the same management as Sergio so I can’t believe he’d have brought Alfa Romeo in for Ferrari to be leaving in a couple of years,” Horner told Reuters.
“I think it demonstrates that Formula One is obviously working and creating the recognition, otherwise the group wouldn’t have brought the Alfa brand into Formula One,” he added.
Alfa has a long history in motor racing, from pre-World War Two days to the winning the first two Formula One drivers’ championships in 1950 and 1951. Enzo Ferrari worked for them  before building his first car in 1947.
Marchionne warned in November that Ferrari, who were spun off from Fiat Chrysler at the start of last year, could walk away if the sport took a direction contrary to the company’s interests.
He will attend an Alfa Romeo Sauber presentation in Arese, near Milan, on Saturday.
Horner, who was speaking at the launch of the Aston Martin R-Motorsport sportscar team in London on Thursday, has previously dismissed Marchionne’s comments as ‘bluster’.
“Formula One needs Ferrari and Ferrari needs Formula One. It’s a marriage of convenience in many respects but both entities ultimately need each other. And we certainly want Ferrari in Formula One,” he said.
“A Formula One with Ferrari in, it’s one of the biggest brands in the world and they are a great team to compete against.”
Sauber will use Ferrari engines next year, along with the U.S.-owned Haas team and Ferrari’s works outfit.
Red Bull are one of three using Renault power units but the future is clouded by uncertainty, with the engine regulations set for a change in 2021.
Aston Martin will be Red Bull’s title sponsors next season and chief executive Andy Palmer has spoken of the possibility of the British sportscar company eventually building an engine if the rules provide for a much cheaper and simpler unit.
“Liberty (the Formula One owners) are very keen to reduce costs to simplify the engine and to attract new brands into Formula One,” said Horner.
”Aston are extremely keen to have an increased presence and I think we’re all in a little bit of a holding pattern at the moment waiting to see what are those regulations going to be.
“You’d have to partner with a specialist, and research and development cost resource restrictions would have to be in place in order for there to be a playing field that they could compete on,” he added.
(This version of the story corrects the second paragraph to make clear Ferrari is not controlled by Fiat Chrysler group)


(Reuters) - Canada’s minister of sport is pushing for Calgary to bid for the 2026 Winter Olympics and said the legacy from the last time the western Canadian city hosted the Games was worth it, according to a CBC report on Friday.
At a time when many cities have pulled out of Olympics bids given concerns about massive costs, Canadian sports minister Kent Hehr told CBC he feels the 1988 Winter Games host would benefit from doing it again.
”I know an Olympic bid, deep in my heart, would be something that would be extraordinary,“ Hehr said in the report. ”But you have to balance it in a real way.
“We’re always excited when communities like Calgary are thinking about putting their hat in the ring about bringing the Olympic Games to this nation.”
Cities around the world are no longer clamoring to host an Olympics. Many in recent years have removed themselves from consideration, either scared off by the size and cost of the Games or pressured by local opposition.
Calgary’s city council recently voted to give C$1 million to continue research into bidding to host the 2026 Games. A bid exploration committee has estimated that staging the sporting extravaganza would come with a price tag of about C$4.6 billion.
According to Hehr, there was plenty of economic uncertainty in Calgary during the late 1970s and early 1980s and many people who did not want the city to host the Olympics.
“There were lots of naysayers around that as well,” Hehr told CBC. “But the legacy that was left, the opportunities it gave kids in the community to develop, I think were well worth the angst and the time.”
According to the CBC article, while Hehr feels an Olympics in Calgary would offer a sense of pride to all of Canada, he continues to maintain a balanced and measured approach.
“Of course you look at all of the possibilities and they’re exciting but you have to look at it in a real fashion. Do the numbers make sense too? Will this lead your community in a better place given all the intangibles surrounding the Olympic bid?”


EINDHOVEN, Netherlands (Reuters) - Amid the flurry of doping and corruption scandals which have hit sport over the last few years, it is often asked why athletes do not make more use their influence to force change. Brazil is a rare case where they can claim to have done so.
Latin America’s largest nation has suffered more than its fair share of sports-related scandal.
The former head of the Brazilian Olympic Committee (COB), Carlos Nuzman, is to stand trial for his role in a corruption case involving alleged bribery in Rio de Janeiro’s successful bid to host of the 2016 Games. Nuzman has denied wrongdoing.
Five Brazilians are among several dozen former soccer officials and sports marketing executives who were indicted in the United States in 2015 in a case which plunged global soccer body FIFA into its worst ever crisis.
Meanwhile, many of the venues used at the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympic Games had fallen into neglect.
But behind the scenes, changes are taking place.
Four years ago, Brazil’s Senate passed a bill that placed a two-term limit on the mandates of presidents sporting confederations which receive public funding.
It also obliged the federations to publish their annual accounts and include athletes in the decision-making process.
Those changes, considered hugely significant in a country where some officials have clung to power for decades, were forced through after intense lobbying from a group called “Atletas pelo Brasil” (Athletes for Brasil).
Founded in 2006, their members include some of Brazil’s most famous former athletes like volleyball player Ana Moser, Formula One’s Rubens Barrichello, former Brazil soccer captain Cafu, basketball player Oscar Schmidt and middle-distance athlete Joaquim Cruz.
Its president is Rai Oliveira, a member of Brazil’s World Cup winning team in 1994, and the younger brother of the late Socrates who was regarded as one of the finest footballers the country has ever produced.
“We have 67 athletes from different generations and different sports, men and women, I think that makes us unique maybe in the world,” he told Reuters on the sidelines of the Play the Game sports conference.
“It’s certainly a pioneering imitative in Brazil where athletes don’t have a culture of taking a stand and starting a movement.”
Rai said his organization scored another victory in 2015 when some of Brazil’s biggest companies agreed that sponsorship money would only be made available to federations which meet high levels of transparency and governance.
“The surprising thing was that even rivals companies got together,” he said. “A lot of company directors like sport and that helped us achieve it. They also realized there was no point in one company doing not if others did not follow suit.”
Rai said that 27 companies have so far signed the so-called Pact for Sport, representing 60 percent of total sports sponsorship money in Brazil.
The big exception have been sponsors involved in soccer but Rai said negotiations were continuing with them as well.
The latest battle is to force a change in COB statutes which would give athletes one third of the votes in its electoral college. A vote was postponed on Monday and is due to take place in December.
Rai recognized that there was still a long way to go and said the Olympic legacy was a setback.
”What was left? Abandoned Olympic venues, white elephants, lack of planning for the next Olympic cycles, decrease in public spending for sports...“ he said. ”But today, we have a voice, we are respected and we are being called to attend important discussions.
”We know the big fight is still to be won... we want better sports in our schools, better sports for all, better
governance.
“Our goal is to have a country where everyone can have access to sports - we put the bar very high.”


LAUSANNE (Reuters) - The International Olympic Committee (IOC) said on Friday it had banned two Russian cross-country skiers, Yulia Chekaleva and Anastasia Dotsenko, and Russian biathlete Olga Zaytseva for life from the Olympics over Sochi 2014 doping allegations.
The IOC is re-testing all Russian athletes’ samples from the event after Grigory Rodchenkov, the former head of Moscow’s discredited anti-doping laboratory, blew the whistle on what he said was a state-sponsored doping program.
The three Russian athletes are found to have committed anti-doping rule violations at the Winter Olympics in Sochi and are disqualified from the events in which they participated, the IOC statement said.
Chekaleva and Dotsenko competed but did not win medals in Sochi. Zaytseva won the silver medal in a four-woman race.
The number of cases opened by the Disciplinary Commission has reached 36 after additional findings from the re-analyses, the IOC said.
The head of the Russian Ski Race Federation, Elena Vyalbe, said the IOC decisions would be appealed in the Court of Arbitration for Sport in Lausanne, the RIA news agency reported.
Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev has said that  allegations that Russian athletes used doping during the 2014 Sochi Olympics are “political manipulations” in a new anti-Russian campaign.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - FIFA President Gianni Infantino on Friday dodged questions about the alleged existence of a state-sponsored doping program in Russia, the host country of next year’s World Cup finals that has dismissed the allegations.
Infantino was speaking alongside Russian Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Mutko, who also serves as the head of the Russian Football Union and the chairman of the tournament’s local organizing committee, ahead of the World Cup draw at the Kremlin.
“FIFA doesn’t participate in any speculations about any situation,” he said, referring to allegations of state-sponsored doping in Russia that could see the country banned from the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in February.
Infantino said FIFA was testing players in and out of competition and that all tests from the 2017 Confederations Cup, the 2016 European championship and the 2014 World Cup had proven negative.
“These tests are not carried out in Russia and they are carried out by non-Russians,” Infantino told reporters.
“Obviously, as it was the case in the past and as will be the case in the future as well, if it turns out that anyone has committed a doping violation, has taken some doping, then there will be sanctions.”
Infantino added that the International Olympic Committee’s (IOC) decision next week on Russia’s participation at the winter Games would have no impact on the World Cup, which will take place in 12 venues spread across 11 cities including Moscow, St Petersburg and Sochi.
Mutko vehemently denied the existence of state-backed doping in Russia and said the country was being unfairly targeted by international sports authorities.
“I am ready to go to any court, to any disciplinary body and say that there was never, isn’t and never will be any doping cover up program,” Mutko said. “We don’t need any of this.”
Despite pledges to cooperate with international bodies to help rid Russia of deep-seated doping, the authorities have refused to acknowledge the findings of last year’s McLaren report that a state-sponsored program existed.
That refusal has thwarted Russia’s efforts to have its suspended sports organizations reinstated.
The country’s athletics federation, Paralympic committee and anti-doping agency RUSADA all remain suspended over doping scandals.
The report, commissioned by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), found that more than 1,000 Russian competitors in more than 30 sports were involved in a conspiracy to conceal positive drug tests over a period of five years.
“There can be endless accusations,” Mutko said. “But I can say that we didn’t create doping.”
Mutko stressed that Russia would continue to protect its athletes and fight the recent bans against suspected dope cheats.
“The state will take a firm position and will defend its athletes until the bitter end,” he said. “We trust and believe them. We will go to civil courts. We won’t leave things like this.”
The IOC last month banned more than 20 Russian athletes as part of an investigation into alleged sample tampering by laboratory and security officials at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi.


(Reuters) - Marc Leishman and Adam Bland carved out a two-stroke lead at the top of the leaderboard after the second round of the Australian PGA Championship on Friday as former winner Adam Scott’s campaign came to an end.
Local hero Leishman struck seven birdies and an eagle in a round of seven-under-par 65 to be level on 12-under with Adam Bland who hit a second consecutive six-under 66.
“I felt really good on the range and felt good yesterday as well. I was striking the ball well and thought I would be pretty aggressive all day, especially after making birdies on the first couple of holes,” said Leishman, who had birdies on three of his first five holes.
“When you’re on a run like that and playing well, you sort of can afford to be aggressive. If you make a few mistakes, you feel like you can make some birdies.”
South Australian Bland had just one bogey in his seven birdies on Friday.
“It’s always great to get off to a flying start but if you can’t back it up in the second round or at least be thereabouts, you’re kind of just chasing your tail for the rest of the week,” Bland said.
“So it was really important to get off to a good start this morning and I seemed to do that, so it was great.”
Former world number one Scott had four bogeys in five holes to card a dismal two-over 74 and failed to make the cut at Queensland while U.S. Masters champion Sergio Garcia fell to joint-10th with a one-under 71.
Cameron Smith, early leader Jordan Zunic and Rhein Gibson were tied for fourth at nine-under.
Defending champion Harold Varner III was a further two shots behind in joint-seventh alongside James Nitties and Brett Rankin.
Garcia, Joachim Hansen, Peter Senior and Hong Kong Open winner Wade Ormsby were 10th at six-under. Varner, Garcia and Hansen were the only non-Australians in the top 10 heading into the weekend.


(Reuters) - The Seattle Sounders eased to a 3-0 victory over the Houston Dynamo in the second leg of their Major League Soccer Western Conference Championship on Thursday to set up a rematch of last year’s MLS Cup final against Toronto FC.
The defending champions will travel to Toronto for the Dec. 9 final after dispatching Houston 5-0 on aggregate, cruising to victory over a weakened Dynamo side, who were reduced to 10 men after 66 minutes and missing ailing marksman Romell Quioto.
“It’s a tremendous opportunity,” Sounders goalkeeper Stefan Frei told reporters of the chance to repeat as champions against top-seeded Toronto. “We’re going to give it our best shot to take advantage of it.”
The second-seeded Sounders were barely pushed by the fourth-seeded Dynamo as Seattle managed to avoid conceding a goal for an MLS-record sixth straight post-season tie and extended their unbeaten home streak to 15 games.
Seattle’s last home loss came at the hands of Toronto FC on May 1 but they will need to travel to Canada for the final due to their opponent’s superior regular-season record.
Victor Rodriguez opened the scoring for the Sounders at the mid-point of the first half when he lifted a deft chip over Houston keeper Joe Willis and Clint Dempsey doubled the lead in the 57th minute, tapping in a low cross from Joevin Jones.
Will Bruin completed the rout with another chip past an out-rushing Willis in the 73rd minute to send the 45,298 green-clad Seattle fans into a frenzy on a cool and clear evening.
Houston’s main threat came from Tomas Martinez, who had two smart shots saved by Frei late in the first half before he was dismissed after the break for shoving Jordy Delem on the back of the head while the Seattle midfielder was lying on the ground.
The pair had made initial contact while jumping for a high ball and the red card came after a video review of the incident by the referee.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Thursday’s National Basketball Association games:
Cavaliers 121, Hawks 114
Cleveland’s defense wasn’t what it had been during most of its winning streak, but a season-best 18 3-pointers in 39 attempts were enough to carry the Cavaliers past the Atlanta Hawks 121-114 on Thursday for their 10th consecutive victory.
Kevin Love had 25 points and 16 rebounds, and LeBron James had 24 points and 12 assists as Cleveland held on despite a scare from Atlanta.
The Hawks, down by 12 points late in the third quarter, closed to 113-112 on two free throws by Ersan Ilyasova, but James hit a 3-pointer with just under two minutes left to help the Cavaliers regain control.
Dennis Schroder had 27 points and Ilyasova 22 for Atlanta.
Celtics 108, 76ers 97
Kyrie Irving scored 36 points to power Boston over undermanned but feisty Philadelphia.
Irving and Marcus Morris keyed a 17-7 fourth-quarter run that broke the game open and gave the Celtics a ninth win in their last 10 home games. It was also the seventh straight TD Garden victory for Boston over the 76ers.
The Celtics’ Al Horford had 21 points, eight rebounds and five assists. Morris finished with 17 points off the bench, one off his season high. He scored six straight points late in the third quarter and seven more during the fourth-quarter spurt.
Dario Saric led Philadelphia with 18 points and 10 rebounds.
Nuggets 111, Bulls 110
Will Barton hit a driving layup with 3.2 seconds left to finish with a career-high 37 points, and Denver overcame Nikola Jokic’s ankle injury to pull out a win over Chicago.
Barton scored six points in the final 45 seconds to rescue the Nuggets against the team with the worst record in the NBA. Gary Harris scored 21 for Denver.
Jokic was hurt with 44 seconds left in the first half. He went to the locker room for X-rays and didn’t return. Lauri Markkanen had 20 points and nine rebounds, Robin Lopez also scored 20 and Kris Dunn had 19 points for the Bulls, who lost their seventh straight game.
Jazz 126, Clippers 107
Alec Burks scored 28 points, and Donovan Mitchell added 24 as Utah moved their win streak to four games with a victory over Los Angeles.
The Jazz improved to 2-7 away from home this year, with the other victory coming at Orlando on Nov. 18. It was only the fourth time Utah defeated the Clippers in the past 23 meetings.
Austin Rivers scored a season-high 25 points for Los Angeles, which saw its three-game win streak come to an end. Lou Williams scored 20 points for the Clippers, while DeAndre Jordan grabbed 16 rebounds and added eight points.
Bucks 103, Trail Blazers 91
Khris Middleton scored 26 points and Eric Bledsoe added 25 as Milwaukee defeated Portland.
Giannis Antetokounmpo contributed 20 points, nine rebounds, five assists and three blocked shots for the Bucks. Bledsoe scored 17 points on 8-of-10 shooting to lead Milwaukee to a 60-45 halftime edge.


MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia will host the 2018 World Cup draw on Friday, the glittering ceremony providing a welcome distraction to the unrelenting diet of doping and corruption news that has sullied the nation’s sporting reputation in recent years.
The draw ceremony gives Russia the chance to showcase the cities and stadiums that will host the 32 teams next June and July. Former England striker Gary Lineker, the 1986 World Cup’s Golden Boot winner as leading goalscorer, and Russian sports journalist Maria Komandnaya are the main presenters.
In a new simplified format, the teams will be placed in pots one to four from highest to lowest FIFA ranking with the exception of Russia, the lowest-ranked team in the tournament, who are automatically in pot one alongside the top seeds.
Each pot will be emptied one by one into eight groups which will contain four teams each. Two non-European teams from the same confederation cannot be in the same group to avoid geographic clashes.
With 14 qualified European teams there cannot be more than two European teams in the same group.
“Really to be honest, if you are going to win the World Cup, it doesn’t matter who comes out of that draw,” draw assistant Gordon Banks, who won the 1966 World Cup with England, told reporters on Thursday at the Kremlin.
“Because you’ve got to get out there and you’ve got to play the best you can. Play as a team and keep going, and that’s what we did when we won it.”
While the draw ceremony, which the Kremlin said President Vladimir Putin could attend, will focus on the positive aspects of the tournament, it will also serve as a reminder of the potential problems, notably concerns over racist and discriminatory behavior and hooliganism.
FIFA President Gianni Infantino warned this week that referees will have the power to stop or even abandon World Cup matches if such incidents take place.
The authorities have said that World Cup preparations are generally on track but there have been construction delays, including on the new stadium in Samara.
Work on the 45,000-seat venue, which will host four group matches, a game in the round-of-16 and a quarter-final, has been plagued by delays over recent months.
Authorities have promised that the venue will be completed on time.
FIFA said around 750,000 tickets have been allocated in the first phase of sales, with the second phase beginning next week.
Russian fans have acquired the most tickets followed by American supporters even though their team did not qualify for the tournament. Brazil, Germany, China and Mexico are also among the leading nations for purchases, FIFA said.
“We’re happy with the number of tickets we’ve allocated,” Falk Eller, the head of FIFA ticketing, told Reuters.
“Of course, we are also glad that the operation went quite well, no technical glitches, no problems.”
All World Cup ticket holders are required to obtain a personalized fan-ID, allowing authorities to screen them and keep hooligans away from matches.


LONDON (Reuters) - Olympic champion Eliud Kipchoge will seek to complete a hat-trick of London Marathon victories next year after missing the 2017 event to focus on his Breaking2 sub-two hour bid, organizers said on Thursday.
The 33-year-old Kenyan won the 2015 race and finished eight seconds outside Dennis Kimetto’s world record time of 2:02:57 to triumph again 12 months later, but he did not defend his title this year to instead focus on the Nike Breaking2 project.
In that event he ran two hours and 25 seconds, though that time is not an official world record due to aspects of the event not satisfying IAAF criteria..
The former 5,000 meters world champion’s official best marathon time of 2:03:05 set in London in 2016 is the fourth-fastest in history. He came close to the world record again in Berlin this year, clocking 2:03:32 in damp conditions..
As always, questions about a potential world record were top of the agenda as Kipchoge held a conference call with journalists on Thursday. The last six world records were set at Berlin, with London last producing one in 2002 when Khalid Khannouchi ran 2:05.38.
“First of all I race to win but London is a good course, world records can be broken here. Remember last year I missed it by a few seconds so London is truly a place to break a world record,” he said.
”Berlin was difficult because the weather was not good but my time showed I was in the right shape. As ever with marathon running, everything needs to come right on the day.
“I know that I have the world record in me so we will have to wait and see what happens.”
Although most of the rest of the elite field is yet to be announced one name already inked in is that of Briton Mo Farah, having his second attempt at the distance but first after stepping away from his track career.
Farah ran 2:08.21 in 2014 and would need a major improvement to challenge for the title next year.
Kipchoge, who has won all but one of the marathons he has raced since stepping up from the track in 2013, said he expected a strong showing from the home favorite.
“It does take time to make that switch but I’m sure Mo will be successful. Mo is a legend and has responded to all sorts of pressure before,” he said.
“It’s great he will be racing the London Marathon next year because I’m sure that will make the atmosphere even more special.”


ZURICH (Reuters) - Russian sprinter Yulia Gushchina, who has previously been stripped of three relay medals won in the 2008 and 2012 Olympics after team mates were banned for doping, has also been disqualified from the London Games after testing positive, the International Olympic Committee said on Thursday.
Re-analysis of Gushchina’s samples from London resulted in a positive test for banned substances dehydrochlormethyltestosterone and stanozolol, the IOC said in a statement, the latest sanction as it re-tests samples from Russian athletes.
Gushchina, who failed to make the final in the individual 400m in London, helped Russia to a silver medal in the 4x400m relay but the quartet were stripped of the honor after Antonina Krivoshapka was banned retrospectively earlier this year.
In Beijing four years earlier she won gold in the 4x100 and silver in the 4x400 but had those results annulled after positive tests for team mates.
The IOC also said on Thursday that Russian long jumper Anna Nazarova had failed a retrospective test from 2012, where she finished fifth.
Thursday’s announcements were the latest in a stream of recent doping positives from the summer and winter Olympics, the vast majority of them Russians.
Russia’s athletics federation is currently banned from the sport as is its Paralympic Committee and anti-doping organization in the wake of widespread doping offences and cover-ups.
The IOC has said it will decide during its executive board meeting next month on the participation of Russian competitors at the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in South Korea in February.


EINDHOVEN, Netherlands (Reuters) - Allowing Russia to compete at the 2018 Winter Games would be “a missed opportunity” which would raise doubts about sport’s willingness to root out drug cheats, the head of the umbrella group of national anti-doping agencies told Reuters.
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) is due to decide next week whether Russia can take part in Pyeongchang and iNADO chief executive Joseph de Pencier said that its decision would be critical to anti-doping efforts.
A World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) report by Canadian law professor Richard McLaren published last year found evidence of widespread, systematic doping across Russian sport.
Russia has repeatedly denied state involvement in doping and on Wednesday the Kremlin said bans on the country’s athletes were part of an anti-Russian campaign in the West.
“If they don’t exclude the Russian Olympic Committee, then I think it’s a huge mistake and a wasted opportunity,” De Pencier said on the sidelines of a sports conference.
”It’s obviously a critical decision for the IOC. If the IOC get this wrong, they set back the work of all of us.
”They create doubts about clean sport and the willingness of the anti-doping community to make sure the job is done, and the commitment of sport as a whole to clean competition and clean athletes.
“If that happens, my members are going to be dealing with their governments, their press and their public asking how they can believe in clean sport.”
De Pencier said he could accept an arrangement where Russian athletes competed as neutrals as “something we can live with” but personally preferred a blanket ban, even if it meant innocent athletes suffered the consequences.
Dmitry Svishchev, who is head of the Russian curling federation and serves on the Russian parliament’s sport and physical culture committee, urged the IOC “not to go for provocation”.
“We admit that there are some athletes, like anywhere in the world, who have taken banned substances. They need to be punished for this,” he told Reuters.
“But in no case should the whole national team, all the athletes who are preparing for the Olympic Games, all the spectators and fans of the Russian team be punished for the actions of some individuals.”
With Russia hosting next year’s soccer World Cup, De Pencier urged FIFA to “get to the bottom” of its own investigation into an allegation in the McLaren report that soccer was among the sports involved in doping.
“FIFA absolutely has to investigate this as an urgent matter and they have got to do it in good faith and with a will. Otherwise, they run the risk of having a big cloud over their event,” he said
“They have every incentive to get to the bottom of this and do it as quickly as possible.”
He added that FIFA should not be afraid of expelling Russia from its own tournament.
“Any multi-national sporting competition can carry on without a particular country being there, why couldn’t the World Cup in Russia? I acknowledge as a practical matter it’s hard to imagine that scenario and also the consequences that might cause, but why not?” he said.
Russia’s Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Mutko this month described allegations of doping in Russian soccer as “stupidity”.
FIFA said in a statement to Reuters that it was working in close collaboration with WADA “following their guidance and exploring every possible avenue.” It said it wanted the investigation finished quickly but that “robust procedures take time.”
FIFA said it had undertaken “comprehensive actions to identify potential anti-doping rule violations including retesting of all available samples” and that investigations remain open.


EINDHOVEN, Netherlands (Reuters) - The NFL’s Rooney Rule could be a way of bringing greater racial and ethnic diversity to European soccer coaching, campaigners said, as a new survey confirmed that it remains a white, male preserve.
The Rooney Rule was introduced in the NFL in 2003 and obliged clubs to interview at least one candidate for every senior head coach role at its members clubs.
A study published by Britain’s Loughborough University and the Football Against Racism in Europe (FARE) group on Thursday found that only 4.6 percent of coaches from black and ethnic minorities (BAME) occupied senior coaching roles at England’s 92 professional soccer clubs.
It described the numbers as “disappointingly low” and added that “institutionally embedded barriers which have restricted opportunities for BAME coaches in the past” remained firmly in place.
The results were an update of a survey in 2014 which found that 96.6 percent of senior coaches at clubs in England, Germany, Spain, Belgium, France and the Netherlands were white men.
FARE executive director Piara Powar said that, given that around 30 percent of players in England and 40 percent in France and the Netherlands were from a BAME background,  “the numbers don’t add up”.
“(BAME) coaches are investing time and money, they are expressing their willingness to take on responsible roles at the top level,” he told Reuters on the sidelines of a sports conference.
“But it seems that at club level, owners are not prepared to give them the opportunity.”    Powar said it was not only an issue of discrimination but also performance.
“No football team can afford to miss out on coaching talent,” he said. “If you look at the professional structures in Western Europe... marginal gains are being talked about, the importance of one, two or three points at the end of the season, so why would owners and associations not look at recruiting the best talent regardless of the ethnic background?”
Powar said that the Rooney rule could improve the situation especially in countries such as England, France, the Netherlands and Portugal.
“If it’s applied in the way that it is in the United States, with the back up the NFL has created, then it will work,” he said. “It will be seen as something that is very normal and is bringing forward the best talent.”
Jeremy Duri, professor of sports law at the American university in Washington, said the number of non-white NFL coaches went from one to three and then nine before settling between six and eight after the rule was implemented.
“Those who got the opportunity won, they were successful,” he said.
“Since 2007, ten of 20 teams who reached the Superbowl final had a coach of color or general manager of color. The fact they were winning created a business case for diversity.”


(Reuters) - Sao Paulo’s first Formula E race has been postponed to 2019  because the Brazilian city’s authorities are in the process of selling off the planned venue.
“The Sao Paulo city authorities have asked us to postpone the race to season five, due to an ongoing process of privatization of the Anhembi Park venue,” said a spokesperson for the all-electric series on Thursday.
“Racing in city centers always poses challenges and as this process is taking longer than expected, in agreement with the city of Sao Paulo, we’ve decided to place negotiations on stand-by until the privatization process is complete.”
Formula E’s fourth season starts in Hong Kong on Saturday, with Sao Paulo originally scheduled for March 17 next year as the fifth round of the 14 race season.
Brazil currently has two Formula E drivers with the inaugural champion Nelson Piquet Junior and title holder Lucas di Grassi.
The Sao Paulo race was one of four new venues on the calendar along with Rome, Zurich and the Chilean capital of Santiago.
Formula E said a replacement for the Brazilian round would be presented to the governing International Automobile Federation (FIA) in Paris next week.
Sao Paulo city authorities are also in the process of privatizing the Interlagos circuit that hosts the Brazilian Formula One Grand Prix.


(Reuters) - U.S. Masters Champion Sergio Garcia carded a bogey-free, five-under-par 67 at the Australian PGA Championships in Queensland on Thursday to trail local pair Jordan Zunic and Adam Bland by a single stroke after the opening round.
Bland surged to the top of the leaderboard with the help of six birdies in seven holes, while Zunic closed with an eagle-three on the par-five ninth to overtake Garcia, who had set the early clubhouse target at a rain-delayed Royal Pines.
The Spaniard, playing in Australia for the first time since 2010, is the only non-local in the top 14 and sits joint-third alongside Marc Leishman, Daniel Nisbet, Michael Wright and veteran Peter Senior.
“I wouldn’t say that it was amazing but it was good,” Garcia said after his round at the tournament co-sanctioned by the PGA Tour of Australasia and European Tour.
”The most positive thing for me would be to go a bogey-free round, which I didn’t realize until we got done.
“Hopefully I‘m able to do more of the same but every day’s a different story and it also depends on the weather. If it gets windy it can be quite tricky, this course.”
Former Australian Masters winner Senior announced his retirement in 2016 but returned to action on Thursday with a spotless round that included five birdies to match Garcia’s score.
Seven players, including Rhein Gibson, Greg Chalmers and Cameron Smith, were a further shot behind in joint-eighth.
Defending champion Harold Varner III, recent Hong Kong Open winner Wade Ormsby and 2013 U.S. Masters champion Adam Scott are well off the pace on one-under.


(Reuters) - Larry Nassar, the former USA Gymnastics team doctor, pleaded guilty in a Michigan court on Wednesday to additional counts of criminal sexual conduct for assaulting girls under the guise of medical treatment, Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette said.
Nassar, 54, appeared in Michigan’s Eaton County Circuit Court and pleaded guilty to three felony counts of first degree criminal sexual conduct.
He did not make a statement beyond briefly answering the judge’s questions, according to The Detroit News. Nassar’s attorneys did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Nassar was the team physician for the Michigan State University gymnastics and women’s crew teams, as well as an associate professor at MSU’s College of Osteopathic Medicine. He served as the USA Gymnastics physician through four Olympic Games.
Last week, Nassar pleaded guilty in nearby Ingham County to seven felony counts of first-degree criminal sexual conduct despite his earlier denials of wrongdoing..
Wednesday’s guilty pleas put an end to criminal sexual conduct charges brought by the Michigan Attorney General’s office against Nassar in Eaton and Ingham counties.
The Eaton County sentencing hearing will be held on Jan. 31.
The Ingham County sentencing hearing will be held on Jan. 12 when all of the 125 reported victims or their parents will be allowed to give victim impact statements.
Last week’s plea deal with prosecutors calls for a minimum prison sentence of 25 years but the judge could set the minimum as high as 40 years.
Nassar’s plea deal follows claims by two of the United States’ most decorated gymnasts, Aly Raisman and Gabby Douglas, that they had been sexually abused by the former USA Gymnastics team doctor.
Three-times Olympic gold medalist Douglas earlier this month said she was sexually abused by Nassar while Raisman, also a three-times gold medalist, made similar allegations in an interview with CBS News program “60 Minutes.”
During the Nov. 22 hearing, Nassar apologized and said it was time for his victims to begin healing, The Detroit News reported.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Wednesday’s National Basketball Association games:
Warriors 127, Lakers 123
Stephen Curry scored 13 of his 28 points in overtime to lift the Golden State Warriors to a 127-123 victory against the Los Angeles Lakers on Wednesday.
Curry was 1 of 7 from 3-point range before starting overtime with back-to-back 3-pointers to give the Warriors a 115-109 lead. He shot 5 of 6 from the free-throw line in the final 1:14 to hold off Los Angeles.
Kevin Durant scored 29 points and Klay Thompson had 20 for the Warriors. Draymond Green had 15 points, 11 rebounds and nine assists, and Zaza Pachulia matched his season high with 11 points
Brandon Ingram scored a career-high 32 points to lead the Lakers. Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Jordan Clarkson contributed 21 points apiece, and Julius Randle scored 20.
Rockets 118, Pacers 97
James Harden posted 29 points, eight rebounds and 10 assists as Houston beat Indiana.
With the Rockets leading 70-64, Harden scored 13 points over the final 3:54 of the third, including three consecutive 3-pointers after starting the game 0 of 6 from behind the arc. When Harden drilled a 3-pointer with nine seconds left in the period, the Rockets secured an 89-71 lead en route to their sixth straight victory.
Clint Capela also posted a double-double for Houston with 22 points and 13 rebounds, and Ryan Anderson fell a rebound short while scoring 19 points. Thaddeus Young led Indiana with 23 points.
Spurs 104, Grizzlies 95
LaMarcus Aldridge scored a season-high 41 points, tying the most points he has scored for San Antonio, in a victory over Memphis.
Aldridge’s performance was his best in the regular season in the three years he has played for the Spurs and his fourth 30-plus point game of the season. He had 41 points in a playoff game in 2016 against Oklahoma City in his first year in San Antonio. Patty Mills added 13 points for San Antonio, and Kyle Anderson and Tony Parker contributed 10 points apiece.
Tyreke Evans scored 22 points for the Grizzlies, who have lost nine consecutive games. The contest was the first for interim Memphis coach J.B. Bickerstaff, who replaced the fired David Fizdale.
Magic 121, Thunder 108
Aaron Gordon scored 40 points, and Orlando snapped a nine-game losing streak by beating Oklahoma City.
Gordon dominated the game by hitting 13 of 23 shots, including six of 12 from 3-point range. He produced his second career 40-point game and fell one shy of his career high set Oct. 24 against the Brooklyn Nets.
The Thunder lost their third consecutive game and their fifth in the past six despite getting 37 points and 11 rebounds from Russell Westbrook. Paul George scored 22 points and Carmelo Anthony had 16 points for Oklahoma City.
76ers 118, Wizards 113
Rookie Ben Simmons collected career highs of 31 points and 18 rebounds as Philadelphia held off Washington.
Joel Embiid had 25 points, 14 boards and four blocked shots for the 76ers, who closed out their season-high, six-game homestand with their fourth victory. Simmons, who entered the game shooting 56.6 percent at the free throw-line, was repeatedly fouled intentionally in the fourth quarter. He went 12 of 24 in the quarter and 15 of 29 in the game.
Bradley Beal scored 21 points for the Wizards despite sitting out the last 15 minutes of the first half with a facial contusion.
Pistons 131, Suns 107
Reggie Jackson had a season-high 23 points and five assists as Detroit never trailed in thumping Phoenix.
Tobias Harris and Avery Bradley contributed 20 points apiece for the Pistons, who shot 57.3 percent and won for the fourth time in five games. Andre Drummond supplied 13 points, seven rebounds and a career-high tying seven assists.
Devin Booker’s 22 points led the Suns, who lost for the fourth time in five games. Rookie Josh Jackson had a career-high 20 points and seven rebounds, and Greg Monroe added 14 points, seven rebounds and five assists for Phoenix.
Timberwolves 120, Pelicans 102
Andrew Wiggins scored 28 points, and Minnesota defeated New Orleans.
Jimmy Butler and Gorgui Dieng supported Wiggins with 19 points apiece. Tyus Jones scored 16, Jamal Crawford had 12, Karl-Anthony Towns 11 and Taj Gibson 10 for the Timberwolves. Towns and Gibson grabbed 10 rebounds apiece.
Minnesota took control midway through the second quarter after Pelicans All-Star forward Anthony Davis was ejected for the first time in his six-year career after getting two technical fouls. Jrue Holiday led New Orleans with 27 points.
Knicks 115, Heat 86
Enes Kanter had 22 points and 14 rebounds, and Courtney Lee added 17 points as New York defeated Miami.
The Knicks snapped a three-game losing streak despite the loss of the NBA’s fourth-leading scorer, Kristaps Porzingis, less than three minutes into the game with a sprained ankle. Porzingis had X-rays done on his ankle that came back negative, and the Knicks announced quickly that he was able to return, but he didn‘t.
Kelly Olynyk had 18 points to lead the Heat, who shot only 38.1 percent from the field and were outrebounded 52-31.
Raptors 126, Hornets 113
Kyle Lowry scored a season-best 36 points with six assists and five rebounds, and DeMar DeRozan added 30 points with six assists and four rebounds as Toronto defeated Charlotte.
Jonas Valanciunas added 12 points and seven rebounds, and Norman Powell had 10 points for the Raptors, who won their second straight.
Dwight Howard had 22 points and 10 rebounds for the Hornets, who lost their third straight. Charlotte played without All-Star point guard Kemba Walker, who has a shoulder injury.
Nets 109, Mavericks 104
DeMarre Carroll scored 22 points and Brooklyn finished off a winning road trip by slipping past Dallas.
Carroll, back in the lineup after missing one game with an upper respiratory infection, knocked down 7 of 14 shots as the Nets went 2-1 on a three-game trek in the Western Conference. Carroll scored 15 in the third quarter in only his second 20-point game this season.


(Reuters) - Evergreen American Venus Williams has dismissed any notion of announcing her retirement anytime soon, saying she is eager to compete at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.
The 37-year-old had a successful year in the absence of her sister Serena through pregnancy, climbing to number five in the singles rankings after finishing runner-up at the Australian Open, Wimbledon and the WTA Finals.
The seven-time grand slam winner has competed in five previous Olympics tournaments, starting in 2000, and has won three golds in the women’s doubles event with Serena and one gold in the singles competition.
“I have no plans of stopping soon,” Williams told American magazine Entrepreneur. “It seems somehow that 2020 Tokyo is on the horizon. Isn’t that wild? I‘m trying to stick around for that.”
The Williams sisters along with ATP Tour veterans Roger Federer and Rafa Nadal have re-established their dominance at the top of the sport with Serena winning her 23rd grand slam title aged 35 at the 2017 Australian Open.
Spaniard Nadal, 31, reclaimed the men’s number one spot with six trophies this year, while 36-year-old Federer finished second after winning seven titles. The pair split the season’s four grand slams between them.
The sisters will resume their rivalry next season as Serena is expected to make a long-awaited return following the birth of her daughter in September.


(Reuters) - Tiger Woods will once again steal the spotlight at the Hero World Challenge in the Bahamas on Thursday, despite the elite field containing eight of the world’s top-10 golfers, as he embarks on what could be his final shot at a comeback.
The 14-times major champion, who is now ranked 1199, has not played since back spasms aborted his latest comeback 10 months ago and while various reports suggest he is swinging freely, no-one will know how he is until he has undergone several rounds in the heat of competition.
Woods experienced a similar false dawn at the same tournament last year after a 16-month hiatus for previous back surgeries and the initial reports were upbeat after he completed four rounds.
Yet two months later he succumbed to the reality of how bad his back was and further surgery followed in April, this time a spinal fusion procedure.
Numerous videos have since been posted on social media of Woods apparently swinging well but precious little has been heard since an initial upbeat statement from surgeon Richard Guyer after the procedure, while details from the Woods camp have been vague and generalized.
“If he is healthy and pain free then what’s possible completely changes, but everything is speculation at this point,” Golf Channel analyst Frank Nobilo told Reuters.
Nobilo’s fellow Golf Channel analyst Brandel Chamblee is not bullish on Woods.
“A bad back by a 41-year-old, four back surgeries in the last three or four years, followed by the emotional stress of the scandal and the controversies that have followed him around and likely some addictions, followed by the chipping yips, which various people have texted me, all caps, exclamation points, that he is over,” Chamblee told Golf.Com. 
“I’ve seen no evidence that he’s over it.”
But Chamblee nevertheless has been impressed with Woods’ swing during pre-tournament practice rounds this weeks, and said he would not be surprised if he posts a top-10 finish in the 18-man field this week.
Others are more bullish long term but one thing most agree on is that this is likely the last-chance for Woods, already at an age at which most injury-free golfers are past their prime.
“My prediction, he’ll come back in a blaze of glory,” six-times major champion Lee Trevino, who endured back issues throughout his career, told Golf World.
“He’s not too old, far from it. If he gets fixed, when he comes back to hitting and feels no pain, he’s going to be so happy, that he may be more dangerous than he was before.”
Trevino, however, added that it was all still supposition.
“Hey, if they couldn’t fix him, then it is over,” he said.
“You can only chase a rainbow so many times.”


LAUSANNE (Reuters) - The International Olympic Committee (IOC) said on Wednesday it had banned for life three Russian bobsledders - Aleksandr Kasyanov, Aleksei Pushkarev and Ilvir Khuzin - over doping allegations related to the 2014 Sochi Olympics.
The IOC is re-testing all Russian athletes’ samples from the event after Grigory Rodchenkov, the former head of Moscow’s discredited anti-doping laboratory, blew the whistle on what he said was a state-sponsored doping program.
Russia denies the allegations, saying it is the victim of a politicized dirty tricks campaign designed to besmirch its reputation and curb its sporting success.
The IOC’s latest move brings the total number of Russian athletes handed life bans to more than 20 this month.
The Kremlin earlier on Wednesday said it would act to protect the rights of Russian athletes, criticizing the bans as part of a broad anti-Russian campaign in the West.
“We strongly reject all allegations that the state may have been involved in any way in forcing doping on Russian athletes,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a conference call with reporters.
Rodchenkov, who prosecutors in Russia accuse of forcing sportspeople to resort to doping, was “an odious figure in Russia”, Peskov said.
“Unfortunately, his sponsors and those sheltering him have a tin ear about this... And therefore the situation certainly remains complicated and the interests of our athletes suffer.”
Kasyanov, Pushkarev and Khuzin competed but did not win medals in Sochi, but were part of the team that won a four-man World Cup bobsleigh event last week.
The president of Russia’s bobsleigh federation, Alexander Zubkov, said the trio were “leaders of the national team” and accused international sports authorities of trying to weaken it.
“They will do everything possible for our country to go to the Olympics with a third or fourth-tier line-up,” Zubkov told a news conference in Moscow.
Zubkov was stripped last week of two gold medals from the 2014 Sochi Games and banned from the Olympics over doping. He says he is innocent and has vowed to appeal the bans against Russian bobsledders at the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS).
Zubkov’s lifetime ban from the Olympics also prevents him from being accredited to the 2018 winter Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea.
Zubkov said his absence from Pyeongchang would not affect the Russian bobsleigh team’s performance.
The IOC is set to decide next week on the participation of Russian competitors at next year’s Games.


TOKYO (Reuters) - Sumo grand champion Harumafuji announced he would retire on Wednesday to take responsibility for injuring a junior wrestler in an incident that has threatened to taint the image of Japan’s national sport just as it was regaining popularity.
The 33-year-old Mongolian-born “yokozuna” (grand champion) had already apologized earlier this month after media reported he had beaten junior wrestler Takanoiwa while drinking at a restaurant-bar with other wrestlers.
“As yokozuka I feel responsible for injuring Takanoiwa and so will retire from today,” a stern-faced Harumafuji told a news conference carried live by several Japanese broadcasters in Fukuoka, southern Japan, site of the most recent tournament.
“I apologize from my heart to the people, sumo fans, the Japan Sumo Association, to supporters of my ‘stable’ (gym) and my ‘oyakata’ (coach) and his wife for causing such trouble.”
Harumafuji gave no details of the incident -- still under investigation by police -- which media reports said occurred when he got angry because the younger wrestler was checking his smartphone after being chastised for a bad attitude.
Takanoiwa, 27, did not take part in the latest tournament due to his injuries, which the sumo association said included a  fractured skull and concussion.
“I think it is my duty as a senior wrestler to correct and teach junior wrestlers when they are lacking in manners and civility,” Harumafuji said. “But I went too far,” he said, adding that the commotion was not alcohol-fuelled.
The incident has highlighted sumo’s struggle to reform harsh conditions that can breed violence in its closed, hierarchical world, although some wrestlers say there have been improvements in the decade since a trainee was beaten to death.
“Sumo, recognizing its responsibility as the sport with the longest history in Japan, must stamp out violence so that the expectations of the people, including youth, are not again betrayed,” Education Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi, whose ministry oversees sports, said in a parliamentary committee meeting.
Former yokozuna Isegahama, the head of the gym where Harumafuji trains and his mentor since he arrived in Japan at the age of 16, told the news conference he had never seen the Mongolian engage in violence and the incident was regrettable.
But he added: “He (Harumafuji) is the one who is most to blame for harming the status of yokozuna. He shouldn’t blame others.”
The head of an advisory body to the JSA, the Yokozuna Deliberation Council, had said this week the affair warranted “extremely harsh punishment” but did not issue a final decision because both the JSA and police were still investigating.
“There is almost no doubting that an act of violence was carried out,” Masato Kitamura, chairman of the panel, told a news conference after a council meeting on Monday.
“The general feeling within the council is that a strict disciplinary measure is required,” he added.
A former oyakata was sentenced to five years in prison in 2010 after a court found he had ordered wrestlers to beat 17-year-old trainee Takashi Saito, who had tried to run away, in 2007. Saito died from his injuries.
Mongolian yokozuna Asashoryu, who often found himself at odds with sumo authorities over his behavior, quit the sport that same year after a probe into reports of a drunken scuffle in Tokyo.
Those incidents and increased competition from other sports eroded the popularity of sumo, in which giant wrestlers clad in silk loin-cloths seek to topple, throw or push each other out of a raised ring.
However, January’s promotion of Japanese wrestler Kisenosato to grand champion, the first home-grown yokozuna in 19 years, helped to rebuild the sport’s fan base.
Harumafuji, one of many Mongolian wrestlers to dominate sumo in recent years, started his career in Japan at the age of 16 and was promoted to yokozuna in 2012. He has won nine grand tournaments in all.
Reflecting on his 17-year career in sumo, Harumafuji said: “I really love sumo. The way of sumo is not simply to be strong, but through sumo... I wanted to inspire the people and give them courage and hope.”The assault affair has grabbed headlines since the news broke earlier this month and on Wednesday was the second top news story on public broadcaster NHK, after the launch of a North Korean ballistic missile that splashed down near Japan.
Harumafuji’s retirement leaves three active yokozuna, including fellow Mongolians Hakuho and Kakuryu, with the former winning the most recent grand tournament in Fukuoka to extend his all-time record to 40 titles.


(Reuters) - Former world number one Serena Williams has yet to make a decision about her participation at the Australian Open, while world number 12 Svetlana Kuznetsova is also a doubt for the first grand slam of 2018 after undergoing wrist surgery.
Williams was around two months pregnant when she captured her 23rd grand slam singles title in Melbourne earlier this year and was hoping to defend her crown next January following the birth of her daughter in September.
”Serena is getting ready for 2018,“ the 36-year-old American’s coach Patrick Mouratoglou told CNN. ”She is practicing and getting back in shape. I will be joining her soon in Florida.
“We will see how her body is reacting and how her tennis level is and we will take a decision regarding Australia.”
Russian Kuznetsova told local media that she was recovering from wrist surgery conducted earlier this month after separate injuries to the area and said there was no specific time frame for her return.
“I had two injuries in my wrist, so I had to do the operation,” the 32-year-old double major winner said.
“There’s a very complicated diagnosis. I‘m still recovering and the doctor does not talk about specific dates when I can start training and play. Australia, most likely, I will have to miss.”
Meanwhile, Victoria Azarenka, who has not played since July due to an ongoing child custody battle, is set to return at the ASB Classic in January but will be without coach Michael Joyce, who released a statement on their partnership.
“Vika is an extremely talented player. While I am excited to see her return to tennis, I encourage and respect her decision to put her family first,” Joyce said of the Belarusian two-time Australian Open champion and former world number one.
“It is with deep regret that I have decided to move forward with my coaching career while she continues to work out her private life. I look forward to seeing her on the tour soon and wish her the best of luck.”
The Australian Open will be held from Jan. 15-28.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Tuesday’s National Hockey League games:
Sharks 3, Flyers 1
Chris Tierney and Marc-Edouard Vlasic scored even-strength goals, and Joe Thornton added a power-play tally as the San Jose Sharks opened a four-game road trip with a 3-1 win over the slumping Philadelphia Flyers on Tuesday night at the Wells Fargo Center.
Goaltender Aaron Dell, who filled in for injured starter Martin Jones, stopped 22 shots for the Sharks. San Jose extended its points streak to five games (3-0-2).
Claude Giroux scored for the Flyers, who lost for the ninth consecutive time (0-4-5). The Flyers have blown leads in seven of those nine games, including a 1-0 lead against the Sharks. The Flyers are riding their longest losing streak since the 2007-08 season, when they lost 10 in a row and still made the playoffs.
Panthers 5, Rangers 4
Florida squandered a three-goal lead, but Denis Malgin’s goal with 1:09 remaining proved to be the difference in a victory against New York.
Aleksander Barkov, Jamie McGinn and Micheal Haley staked the Panthers to a 3-0 lead in the first period. Jonathan Huburdeau had the Panthers’ fourth goal. James Reimer earned the win by making 33 saves.
Chris Kreider recorded two goals and an assist, Pavel Buchnevich had a goal and two assists, and David Desharnais had three assists for New York. J.T. Miller had the Rangers’ other goal. Ondrej Pavelec took the loss in relief despite stopping 19 of 21 shots after replacing Henrik Lundqvist during the first period.
Islanders 5, Canucks 2
Five players scored for New York, which remained red-hot with a victory over Vancouver.
Andrew Ladd, Calvin de Haan, Jordan Eberle, Andres Lee and John Tavares collected the goals for the Islanders, who have won four straight and seven of eight. New York is also unbeaten in regulation at home (8-0-2). Islanders goalie Jaroslav Halak recorded 23 saves.
Thomas Vanek and Bo Horvat scored for the Canucks, who have lost three straight (0-2-1) and five of seven (2-3-2). Goalie Anders Nilsson made 31 saves.
Lightning 2, Sabres 0
Andrei Vasilevskiy made 34 saves to lead Tampa Bay over Buffalo.
It was the second shutout of the season and the sixth of his career for Vasilevskiy, who leads the NHL in wins with 16.
Defensemen Mikhail Sergachev and Dan Girardi scored for the Lightning, who snapped a two-game losing streak.
Robin Lehner made 24 saves for the Sabres, whose struggles continued. Buffalo has one win in its past 10 games.
Blue Jackets 3, Hurricanes 2 (SO)
Cam Atkinson and Artemi Panarin scored in a shootout and Columbus defeated Carolina.
Blue Jackets goaltender Joonas Korpisalo stopped both Carolina shots in the shootout and finished with 29 saves. Josh Anderson scored his team-leading ninth goal of the season in the first period, and Zach Werenski had the lone goal in the second period that gave the Blue Jackets a 2-1 lead.
Hurricanes left winger Brock McGinn tied it at 2 at 10:09 of the third period with a high blast for his sixth goal of the season. Noah Hanifin scored a Carolina goal in the first period and Scott Darling finished with 36 saves.
Kings 4, Red Wings 1
Anze Kopitar scored twice, including the eventual game winner, and set up another as Los Angeles rallied for a victory over Detroit.
Dustin Brown and Adrian Kempe also scored for the Kings, who won successive games for the first time since a three-game winning streak in October. Jonathan Quick made 23 saves.
Mike Green scored for the Red Wings, who have lost five straight (0-2-3). Detroit also dropped to .500 (4-4-4) on home ice this season.
Predators 3, Blackhawks 2
In their first trip to Bridgestone Arena since getting swept by Nashville in last season’s Western Conference playoffs, Chicago was once again stymied by Pekka Rinne.
The Nashville goalie turned away 37 shots, including at least five point-blank chances, to lead his team to victory.
Austin Watson, Filip Forsberg and Roman Josi scored for the Predators and Tommy Wingels and Lance Bouma had the Blackhawks’ goals.
Oilers 3, Coyotes 2 (OT)
Matt Benning scored with 5:35 left in regulation to tie the game, and Ryan Nugent-Hopkins scored on a breakaway with 39.8 seconds left in overtime to lift Edmonton past Arizona.
Zack Kassian scored in the first period for Edmonton. Benning also had an assist.
Christian Fischer scored in the first period and Oliver Ekman-Larsson scored in the second for the Coyotes, and Max Domi had two assists.
Maple Leafs 4, Flames 1
Roman Polak, Nikita Zaitsev, Nazem Kadri and Leo Komarov scored as Toronto topped Calgary.
Maple Leafs goalie Frederik Andersen made 19 saves to improve his record to 14-7-1.
Michael Stone scored the lone goal of the game for the Flames, who will have a chance to avenge the loss when the same two teams meet in Toronto on Dec. 6. Netminder Mike Smith did his best to keep the Flames in the game by stopping 26 of 29 shots he faced.
Stars 3, Golden Knights 0
Radek Faksa scored his first career hat trick and Ben Bishop stopped 34 shots for his second shutout of the season as Dallas defeated Vegas.
The loss snapped a five-game win streak and also an eight-game home win streak for the Golden Knights, both of which had tied the NHL record for a team in its inaugural season.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Tuesday’s National Basketball Association games:
Cavaliers 108, Heat 97
Kevin Love scored a season-high 38 points, LeBron James was tossed from the game, and Dwyane Wade put a hurting on his old team in the Cleveland Cavaliers’ 108-97 win over the Miami Heat on Tuesday.
Love added nine rebounds and shot 14 of 17 from the foul line in 26 minutes. The Cavs, who led the game by as many as 34 points, have won nine straight for their longest regular-season winning streak since Jan. 15-Feb. 5, 2015.
James was ejected with 1:59 left in the third quarter for arguing a non-call with referee Kane Fitzgerald. James screamed at Fitzgerald for not calling a foul against Hassan Whiteside on James’ drive to the hoop. James, who was ejected for the first time in his career, finished with 21 points, 12 rebounds, six assists and five steals.
Wade, who like James once starred with the Heat, scored 17 points off the Cleveland bench. Dion Waiters led Miami with 21 points.
Wizards 92, Timberwolves 89
Otto Porter Jr. scored 22 points, including the go-ahead jump shot with 25 seconds remaining, to give Washington a come-from-behind win.
Porter scored 17 of his points in the second half as Washington erased a 13-point deficit and won for the second time in six games. Leading scorer Bradley Beal was held to eight points on 2-of-11 shooting, but the bench was pivotal with the Wizards missing John Wall for the second straight game due to an injured knee.
Karl-Anthony Towns had 20 points and 17 rebounds to post his league-leading 17th double-double for the Timberwolves. Making his second NBA start in place of injured Minnesota point guard Jeff Teague, Tyus Jones had season highs of 12 points and seven assists.
Suns 104, Bulls 99
Devin Booker scored 33 points and TJ Warren added 25 as Phoenix snapped a three-game losing streak.
Tyler Ulis finished with 14 points for the Suns, who built a 15-point lead in the fourth quarter and then had to hold on to beat the Bulls for the second time in nine days. Alex Len grabbed 18 rebounds for the Suns to go along with 13 points.
Justin Holiday led the Bulls with 25 points. Kris Dunn scored 24 points for Chicago, which dropped its sixth straight game.
Bucks 112, Kings 87
Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 19 of his game-high 32 points in the third quarter, and Milwaukee also got contributions from Khris Middleton and Eric Bledsoe in a win over Sacramento.
Bledsoe amassed 21 points and five assists, and Middleton had 12 points and four rebounds for the Bucks, who continued their recent domination of the Kings. Milwaukee has won three straight against Sacramento by an average of 21 points per game.
The Kings, coming off a season-best 55 percent shooting in a 110-106 road win over the Golden State Warriors on Monday, made only 5 of 20 shots in the second quarter and only 7 of 24 in the third while being outscored 60-33 over the middle two quarters. Garrett Temple led Sacramento with 18 points.
Jazz 106, Nuggets 77
Derrick Favors scored 24 points on 12-of-16 shooting and collected nine rebounds to lead Utah’s rout of Denver.
Donovan Mitchell scored 16 points and Jonas Jerebko added 15 for the Jazz. Utah won its third straight game after holding the Nuggets to just 28 second-half points, a season-low for a Jazz opponent. Utah guard Rodney Hood did not play because of ankle soreness.


(The Sports Xchange) - Los Angeles Clippers star forward Blake Griffin could be sidelined for two months while recovering from a sprained MCL in his left knee, according to an ESPN report Tuesday.
Griffin, 28, sustained the injury in the fourth quarter of Monday night’s game against the rival Los Angeles Lakers. Examinations revealed no structural damage in Griffin’s knee, per ESPN.
Griffin had 26 points, 11 rebounds and six assists over 36 minutes in the Clippers’ 120-115 victory against the Lakers before exiting with the injury.
The Golden State Warriors are hoping to have at least one star player back from injury when they open a six-game road trip against the Los Angeles Lakers at Staples Center on Wednesday.
Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant each sat out a 110-106 loss to the visiting Sacramento Kings on Monday. Curry has a bruised right hand and Durant has been dealing with a sprained left ankle.
Former NBA player Ben Gordon was arrested on a felony robbery charge in Los Angeles, the latest in a string of incidents over the past few months.
Gordon, 34, allegedly punched the manager of a downtown Los Angeles apartment complex on Saturday and pulled a knife. Gordon took money from the man that he said was his security deposit.
Gordon was arrested on Saturday and released Tuesday on $50,000 bail.
Memphis Grizzlies star Marc Gasol insists he had nothing to do with the firing of coach David Fizdale, which occurred one day after Gasol was furious that he was benched for the fourth quarter of the team’s eighth consecutive loss.
In fact, Gasol said he was surprised by the timing of the move and didn’t know about the firing until after the decision was made.
Memphis general manager Chris Wallace said the firing of the second-year coach was due to the team being underachievers and not related to the rift between Fizdale and Gasol.
Phoenix Suns center Alex Len admittedly is frustrated with his recent lack of playing time.


TOKYO (Reuters) - Sumo grand champion Harumafuji has informed the Japan Sumo Association of his intent to retire, an association spokesman said, following the Mongolian’s assault of a junior wrestler.
Harumafuji’s “oyakata” Isegahama, who runs the gym, or “stable” where Harumafuji trains, informed the association on the grand champion’s behalf, the spokesman said.


(The Sports Xchange) - New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning probably would have preferred to be answering questions about last week or better yet, the upcoming week’s game.
Instead, the veteran quarterback who has started 210 straight games for the Giants was standing before a crowd of reporters, at times fighting to hold back tears as he talked about the stunning decision by Giants coach Ben McAdoo to name Geno Smith the starting quarterback for this weekend’s game.
Manning, who has two years left on his contract, was asked about the future. Composing himself, he said. “I don’t know. I don’t know. One week at a time.”
Quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo will make his first start since joining San Francisco when the 49ers play the Chicago Bears on Sunday.
San Francisco coach Kyle Shanahan met with Garoppolo and C.J. Beathard on Tuesday to inform them of his decision.
Running back Darren McFadden announced his retirement after 10 NFL seasons.
McFadden was officially waived by the Dallas Cowboys on Monday, although news of the impending release occurred the day before. He played his first seven seasons with the Oakland Raiders before joining the Cowboys.
Arizona Cardinals coach Bruce Arians told reporters that he has plenty of confidence in quarterback Blaine Gabbert.
With injured Carson Palmer pondering retirement, Arians was if he’d be confident with Gabbert as his starter next season.
USC quarterback Sam Darnold dismissed a rumor that he would stay in school for his junior season should the Cleveland Browns secure the top overall pick in the 2018 NFL draft.
NFL Network’s Albert Breer told Cleveland radio station 92.3 The Fan earlier this month that Darnold is “going to take everything into account and that includes who’s at the top of the draft.”
Defensive back Dave Cloutier, who was the first native of Maine to play for the New England Patriots, died earlier this month at his home in Palm Coast, Fla., the team announced.


(The Sports Xchange) - Pittsburgh Penguins goaltender Matt Murray is considered week-to-week with a lower-body injury, the team announced Tuesday.
Because of Murray’s health, the Penguins recalled goaltender Casey DeSmith from Wilkes-Barre/Scranton of the American Hockey League.
Murray sustained the injury on Monday in Pittsburgh’s 5-4 overtime win over the Philadelphia Flyers. The 23-year-old exited the contest with 4:21 remaining in the second period after Flyers forward Jakub Voracek crashed into him during a breakaway.
Chicago Blackhawks right winger Patrick Kane and Minnesota Wild defenseman Matt Dumba were fined $5,000 apiece by the NHL for separate incidents.
Kane, 29, was fined for slashing Anaheim Ducks forward Nick Ritchie with 4:13 remaining in the third period of the Blackhawks’ 7-3 win on Monday in Chicago. The 2016 Hart Trophy recipient was assessed a minor penalty for slashing.
Florida Panthers forward Evgenii Dadonov is expected to be sidelined four to six weeks with a shoulder injury.


(Reuters) - Indian duo SSP Chawrasia and Anirban Lahiri were named alongside current Asian Tour Order of Merit leader Gavin Green in a young Asian team led by Arjun Atwal for January’s EurAsia Cup against Europe.
Thai duo Phachara Khongwatmai and Poom Saksansin, Malaysia’s Green and Chawrasia make up the leading four Asian players who qualified for Team Asia in the biennial event set to be played at Glenmarie Golf and Country Club in Selangor, Malaysia from Jan. 12-14.
Japan’s Yuta Ikeda, ranked 37th the world, Li Haotong of China, Lahiri and Thai Kiradech Aphibarnrat all booked their spots as leading available Asians on the world rankings.
South Korean An Byeong-hun will make his return to the team as a captain’s pick along with compatriot Kang Sung-hoon, Hideto Tanihara of Japan and Malaysian Nicholas Fung.
The 12-man team boasts 58 titles won worldwide, with six of the players still in their 20s.
“I‘m proud to announce my team which is predominantly represented by young players,” India’s Atwal said in a statement.
“Seven players in my team are ranked inside the top-100 on the Official World Golf Ranking and this underlines the strength of Team Asia. This is a strong team and it will be our goal to win the EurAsia Cup.”
China’s Zhang Lianwei has been picked as the vice-captain to help Atwal lead Team Asia against Thomase Bjorn’s Team Europe in the “Ryder Cup of the East”.
The visiting team will feature Rafa Cabrera-Bello, Paul Casey, Paul Dunne, Ross Fisher, Matthew Fitzpatrick, Tommy Fleetwood, Tyrrell Hatton, Alex Levy, Alex Noren, Thomas Pieters, Henrik Stenson and Bernd Wiesberger.


(Reuters) - Kevin Durant says Colin Kaepernick’s protests during the U.S. national anthem “touched a nerve” in society and sparked a national conversation about issues such as racial equality, the Golden State player told the San Jose Mercury News.
In an interview published on Monday, Durant said he admired the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback for taking the stance, despite the backlash it provoked.
“It definitely put me in a different place because we just started talking about stuff that’s always been going on,” Durant said.
”It was really out of nowhere ... He shocked everybody by doing that.
”You just see he touched something in people that we didn’t know was there,“ Durant said. ”I posted a picture of him on my Instagram, and the comments under that were ridiculous.
“So he kind of touched a nerve and the outrage from it made me a fan of him just because he decided to take all that on ...”
Kaepernick has been unemployed this season despite injuries at other teams that have created job openings. Some experts attribute his political activism as the key reason teams are wary of signing him.
He opted out of his contract with the 49ers in the offseason but has said his agent reached out to all 32 teams to make sure they were aware of his interest in playing this season.
The protests began in 2016 when Kaepernick began sitting and later kneeling during the anthem to call attention to the killing by police of unarmed black men and boys across the United States, as well as racial disparities in the criminal justice system.
Kaepernick inspired many NFL players to kneel in protest during renditions of the national anthem, most notably in September after U.S. President Donald Trump said kneeling players should be fired for disrespecting the country.
Durant, 29, who moved to the NBA champion Warriors last year after eight seasons with the Oklahoma City Thunder, said his focus on basketball had helped insulate him from trouble when he was growing up.
“I kind of grew up in this basketball world, whereas my talent kind of overrides what I look like,” said the 2014 NBA Most Valuable Player.
“I didn’t have it as rough when it comes to that, as far as social or systematic oppression or any social issues. They didn’t really apply to me because I could put a ball in a basket.”


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Monday’s National Basketball Association games:
Kings 110, Warriors 106
Bogdan Bogdanovic hit a driving banker over Draymond Green with 12.6 seconds remaining Monday night to break a tie and lift the Sacramento Kings to a 110-106 victory over the Golden State Warriors.
Golden State, which was playing without Stephen Curry (bruised right hand) and Kevin Durant (sprained left ankle), led 106-102 before the Kings scored the game’s last eight points over the final 3:08.
Sacramento earned its first win in its past nine visits to Oracle Arena and snapped a nine-game road losing streak dating back to the first week of the season.
Willie Cauley-Stein had 19 points and eight rebounds to lead the Kings. Klay Thompson paced the Warriors with 21 points.
Pistons 118, Celtics 108
Detroit ended Boston’s eight-game home winning streak in a battle of the teams with the two top records in the Eastern Conference.
Tobias Harris scored 31 points and Andre Drummond posted 26 points, a season-high 22 rebounds and six assists as the Pistons went on a late 13-3 run to put the game away.
Detroit guard Reggie Jackson, who played his college ball at Boston College, had 20 points and seven assists in the win. Marcus Smart led the Celtics with 23 points.
Cavaliers 113, 76ers 91
LeBron James collected 30 points, 13 rebounds and six assists as Cleveland beat Philadelphia to win its eighth straight.
Dwyane Wade added 15 points off the bench for the Cavs, who owned a 57-30 advantage in bench points and limited the Sixers to 37.5 percent shooting, including 3-for-28 3-point accuracy. Cleveland shot 48.2 percent, including 40.5 percent (15 of 37) from beyond the arc.
Joel Embiid led Philadelphia, which saw a three-game winning streak end, with 30 points and 11 rebounds. Rookie sensation Ben Simmons was limited to 10 points and eight rebounds before leaving the game in the fourth quarter with a sprained right ankle.
Rockets 117, Nets 103
James Harden produced another breathlessly efficient scoring performance and Houston rode his hot hand to a victory over Brooklyn.
The Rockets extended their winning streak to five games behind Harden, who scored 37 points on 13-for-20 shooting while adding 10 rebounds and eight assists. He poured in 20 points without a miss in the first quarter as Houston took a 21-point lead it did not relinquish.
Clint Capela added 20 points for the Rockets, Ryan Anderson scored 13 and Eric Gordon 12. Chris Paul shot just 1 for 7 but had 14 assists without a turnover, six boards and two steals.
Pacers 121, Magic 109
Victor Oladipo scored 26 points and Bojan Bogdanovic added 22 as Indiana sent Orlando to its ninth consecutive loss.
Oladipo hit 11 of 14 shots, including 4 of 6 from 3-point range, and Domantas Sabonis chipped in with 19 points and eight rebounds for the Pacers. Indiana’s Myles Turner scored 18 points, and Lance Stephenson matched his season high with 18 off the bench.
The Pacers sank 15 of 26 from three-point range while the Magic were 16 of 41 on three-pointers. Jonathon Simmons scored 21 points to lead six players in doubles figures for Orlando. Aaron Gordon and Nikola Vucevic each had 16 points. Vucevic added a team-high 12 rebounds.
Trail Blazers 103, Knicks 91
Damian Lillard had 32 points and Pat Connaughton added 17 as Portland defeated New York.
Kristaps Porzingis returned from a one-game absence and scored 22 points to lead the Knicks, who lost their third consecutive game. Tim Hardaway Jr. added 18 points for New York but shot just 6 of 18 from the field.
New York staged a furious rally in the fourth quarter, cutting Portland’s lead from 26 at the start of the quarter to eight with under a minute left. The Blazers scored just six points in the first 10 minutes of the fourth quarter, but New York went cold and was unable to come any closer.
Spurs 115, Mavericks 108
LaMarcus Aldridge scored a season-high 33 points and grabbed 10 rebounds for his eighth double-double of the year as San Antonio defeated Dallas.
Pau Gasol added a season-high 25 points for the Spurs. San Antonio point guard Tony Parker, who missed the first 19 games of the season because of a quad injury he sustained in the playoffs last season, returned to produce six points and four assists in 15 minutes.
Wesley Matthews and Dennis Smith Jr. led the Mavericks with 19 points apiece. J.J. Barea added 16 points, and Devin Harris and Harrison Barnes contributed 13 each for Dallas.
Clippers 120, Lakers 115
Lou Williams scored a season-high 42 points and Blake Griffin added 26 as the Los Angeles Clippers held off the Los Angeles Lakers.
It was the 11th consecutive “home” victory for the Clippers over the Lakers, while the Clippers have also won 20 of the last 22 games in the matchup. Both teams call the Staples Center home.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Ravens executed a fake punt that led to a Javorius “Buck” Allen touchdown, and Alex Collins ran for another score in Baltimore’s 23-16 victory over the Houston Texans on Monday night.
Ravens linebacker Terrell Suggs also came up with huge play, a strip-sack of Texans quarterback Tom Savage late in the fourth quarter. The fumble was recovered by Baltimore defensive tackle Willie Henry.
The Ravens (6-5) have consecutive wins for the first time since the opening two weeks of the season, and they retook the sixth and final AFC playoff spot.
Baltimore overcame a huge performance by Texans receiver DeAndre Hopkins, who caught seven passes for 125 yards.
Baltimore is 12-1 in night games at home since coach John Harbaugh took over the team in 2008. The Ravens have also won 10 consecutive prime-time matchups at M&T Bank Stadium, the longest streak in the NFL.
Houston (4-7) pulled to within 20-16 on a 37-yard field goal by Ka‘imi Fairbairn with 8:36 remaining in the game. The Texans were driving again on their next possession, but Suggs’ strip-sack led to a 49-yard field goal by Justin Tucker that gave Baltimore the 23-16 margin.
Ravens safety Anthony Levine sealed the win with the first interception of his career with just over two minutes left.
Baltimore’s Joe Flacco completed 20 of 32 passes for 141 yards and had a key 25-yard run on the game’s final possession.
The Ravens had three takeaways, giving them an NFL-leading 26.
Savage, filling for the injured Deshaun Watson, was 22 of 37 for 252 yards with two interceptions.
The Ravens’ defense had three penalties for 39 yards on the Texans’ opening drive. That helped set up a four-yard touchdown run by Lamar Miller.
Baltimore got a spark when Sam Koch threw a 22-yard pass to Chris Moore on a fake punt early in the second quarter. Two plays later, Allen tied the game on a 10-yard run.
An interception by safety Tony Jefferson and a 29-yard run by Collins on a fourth-and-1 set up the Ravens’ next score. Collins capped the drive with an 8-yard run, and Baltimore had its first lead, 14-7, with 6:44 left in the half.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Memphis Grizzlies fired coach David Fizdale on Monday and named J.B. Bickerstaff as the interim head coach.
Memphis is mired in an eight-game losing streak and owns a 7-12 mark this season after advancing to the playoffs in 2016-17.
“After a thorough evaluation, I decided a change in course was necessary to move forward and provide the team and organization its best chance at success this season and beyond,” Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said.
“Coach Fizdale represented the Grizzlies and City of Memphis proudly, and we wish him well as he continues his career.”
Fizdale has recorded a 50-51 mark since being named the 13th head coach in franchise history on May 29, 2016.
“Coach Fizdale worked tirelessly to achieve on-court success, and for that, we are grateful. We wish him and his family all the best in the future,” Grizzlies controlling owner Robert J. Pera said. “We remain focused on achieving sustainable, long-term success.”
Bickerstaff, who served as Memphis’ associate head coach, posted a 37-34 mark as an interim coach with the Houston Rockets in 2015-16.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Monday’s National Hockey League games:
Panthers 3, Devils 2
Roberto Luongo etched his name in the record books Monday night as the Florida Panthers defeated the New Jersey Devils 3-2.
Luongo earned his 200th victory as a member of the Panthers, making him just the second goaltender in NHL history to win 200 games for two different teams, joining Hockey Hall of Famer Patrick Roy. Luongo also won 252 games with the Vancouver Canucks, while Roy earned 289 victories with the Montreal Canadiens and 262 with the Colorado Avalanche.
Luongo, 38, made 23 saves in his milestone victory. His counterpart, Cory Schneider of the Devils, stopped the first 29 shots he faced and finished with 35 saves in the loss.
The Panthers scored the decisive goal at 12:45 of the third period. Jared McCann collected the rebound of his own blocked shot and flipped his fourth goal past Schneider to give Florida a 3-2 lead.
Canadiens 3, Blue Jackets 1
Montreal ended Columbus’ six-game winning streak as Carey Price made 37 saves in his second game back from injury.
Brendan Gallagher, Jonathan Drouin and Andrew Shaw scored as the Canadiens won consecutive games. Price had a 36-save shutout Saturday in a 3-0 win against the Buffalo Sabres after missing 10 games with a lower-body injury.
Sergei Bobrovsky, who had won the six previous games, made 25 saves for Columbus. Rookie center Pierre-Luc Dubois scored for the Blue Jackets.
Penguins 5, Flyers 4 (OT)
Sidney Crosby scored at 1:48 of overtime to give Pittsburgh a win over reeling Philadelphia, but the Penguins lost No. 1 goaltender Matt Murray to an apparent leg injury in the second period.
There was no immediate word on Murray’s status. Philadelphia has lost eight in a row (0-3-5), its longest losing streak since it lost 10 straight in February 2008.
On the winner, Crosby chipped in a shot by Kris Letang. Pittsburgh won its second in a row. The Penguins tied it 3-3 with goals in the first two minutes of the third period on goals by Patric Hornqvist and Bryan Rust. After Michael Raffl scored for the Flyers, Jake Guentzel forced overtime with his second goal when he tied it at 4-4 with 1:04 left in regulation.
Jets 7, Wild 2
Winnipeg shook off any hangover it had from being shut out for the first time this season, routing goalie Alex Stalock and Minnesota.
The Jets scored seven consecutive goals, with Bryan Little, Joel Armia, Kyle Connor, Mark Scheifele, Mathieu Perreault, Blake Wheeler and Jacob Trouba connecting after Jason Zucker and Chris Stewart staked the visitors to a 2-0 lead.
Connor Hellebuyck stopped 17 shots for his 13th win of the season while Stalock blocked 21 shots in the loss. The Jets lost 4-0 to San Jose on Saturday to finish off a four-game road trip.
Blackhawks 7, Ducks 3
Rookie right winger Alex DeBrincat scored his first career hat trick and notched an assist as part of a four-point performance, and Chicago pulled away from Anaheim.
Patrick Sharp, Brandon Saad, Artem Anisimov and Nick Schmaltz also scored as the Blackhawks tallied their second-most goals of the season. Chicago extended its point streak to five games.


(The Sports Xchange) - Colorado Avalanche captain Gabriel Landeskog has been suspended four games by the NHL for cross-checking Calgary Flames forward Matthew Tkachuk, the league announced Monday.
Landeskog lowered the boom on Tkachuk with 4:42 remaining in the first period of Saturday’s 3-2 loss to the Flames. The 25-year-old Swedish forward was assessed a minor penalty on the play.
The suspension is the second in the career of Landeskog, who received a three-game ban in March 2016 for a cross-check on then-Anaheim Ducks defenseman Simon Depres.
Landeskog has collected nine goals and eight assists in 22 games this season for the Avalanche (11-9-2), who have dropped two in a row and six of their last nine (3-4-2).
The Winnipeg Jets recalled goaltender Eric Comrie from the Manitoba Moose of the American Hockey League.
The Edmonton, Alberta, native made his NHL debut on April 6 at Columbus and had 35 saves to earn the win.
The Jets also reassigned goaltender Jamie Phillips to Manitoba from the East Coast Hockey League’s Jacksonville Icemen.
The Minnesota Wild recalled former first-round defenseman Ryan Murphy from Iowa of the American Hockey League, the team announced.
Murphy was signed as a free agent by Minnesota on July 1.
The 24-year-old Ontario native notched a pair of assists in 27 contests last season with the Carolina Hurricanes.
The Florida Panthers recalled forward Denis Malgin from the Springfield Thunderbirds of the American Hockey League.
Malgin, 20, has played in 52 career NHL games, all with Florida, recording six goals and four assists. He has skated in five games this season for the Panthers, averaging 9:33 time on ice with no points.
Malgin, a native of Olten, Switzerland, was originally selected by Florida in the fourth round of the 2015 NHL draft.
The Boston Bruins assigned forward Jordan Szwarz to Providence of the American Hockey League.


(The Sports Xchange) - The Denver Broncos’ quarterback carousel once again will turn to Trevor Siemian after coach Vance Joseph announced Monday that Paxton Lynch will be sidelined two to four weeks with a high ankle injury.
Lynch sustained the non-contact injury during the third quarter of Sunday’s 21-14 loss to the Raiders on Sunday at the Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum. The 2016 first-round pick completed 9 of 14 passes for 41 yards with one interception while making his first start of the season and third career.
The New England Patriots placed tight end Martellus Bennett on injured reserve.
The move comes one day after Bennett was inactive in the Patriots’ 35-17 win over the Miami Dolphins due to shoulder and hamstring injuries. New England also put defensive back Nate Ebner on injured reserve.
Buffalo Bills wide receiver Kelvin Benjamin has a torn meniscus in his right knee, the team announced.
Benjamin, who was acquired from the Carolina Panthers on Oct. 31, sustained the injury during Buffalo’s 54-24 loss to the Los Angeles Chargers on Nov. 19.
Detroit Lions safety Tavon Wilson was placed on injured reserve with an ailing shoulder, the team announced.
Wilson aggravated the injury during Detroit’s 30-23 loss to the Minnesota Vikings on Thanksgiving Day.
Carolina Panthers tight end Greg Olsen, who made his long-awaited return to the lineup on Sunday after an eight-week absence due to a broken foot, received positive news after seeing a specialist.
Olsen was examined orthopedic specialist Dr. Robert Anderson and his foot was judged to be “OK,” the Charlotte Observer reported, citing a source.
Denver Broncos cornerback Aqib Talib opened up about his role in a fight with Oakland Raiders wide receiver Michael Crabtree that saw both players ejected from Sunday’s game at Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Five more Russian competitors from the 2014 Sochi Olympics were banned for life over anti-doping rule violations on Monday with the International Olympic Committee saying Russia’s former anti-doping chief-turned-whistleblower was telling the truth.
The banned athletes include Dmitrii Trunenkov and Aleksei Negodailo, both in the gold-medal winning four-man bobsleigh team, plus biathlon relay silver medalists Yana Romanova and Olga Vilukhina, who also won silver in the 7.5 km event.
The latest bans bring the total number of Russian athletes suspended from the Games for life to 19 this month, with the IOC annulling results following widespread doping and tampering with samples of Russian athletes during the Sochi Games.
The IOC also published its reasoning behind the lifetime ban of the first Russian to be sanctioned as part of its investigation, cross country gold medalist Alexander Legkov.
The IOC said it was proven that Legkov was part of a scheme to tamper with the samples of Russians at Sochi.
The Olympic body is re-testing all Russian athletes’ samples from those Games following revelations by Grigory Rodchenkov, the former head of Moscow’s discredited anti-doping laboratory, of a scheme to cover up home competitors’ positive samples.
The IOC launched two investigations following Rodchenkov’s claims with one focusing on the Sochi Games re-tests and the other looking at allegations of systematic state-backed doping.
The IOC on Monday said that in Legkov’s case, evidence provided by Rodchenkov, now living in the United States, was used and deemed credible.
“The (IOC) Disciplinary Commission has come to the conclusion that, whatever his motivation may be and whichever wrongdoing he may have committed in the past, Dr Rodchenkov was telling the truth when he provided explanations of the cover-up scheme that he managed,” it said in its decision.
“The Disciplinary Commission would have preferred... to be able to hear Dr Rodchenkov in person. However, this does not alter its conviction that Dr Rodchenkov is a truthful witness and that his statements reflect the reality and can be used as valid evidence.”
The Sochi scandal, triggered by revelations made by Rodchenkov, is part of a broader doping affair that has led to the suspension of Russia’s anti-doping agency RUSADA, its athletics federation and Paralympic Committee.
The IOC has said it will decide during its executive board meeting next month on the participation of Russian competitors at the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in South Korea in February.


BERLIN (Reuters) - Russia have been knocked off the medals top spot for the 2014 Sochi winter Olympics after five more athletes received lifetime Games bans on Monday over doping violations at those Olympics, but the final medal count could be months or even years away.
This month a total of 19 Russians have been banned from the Games for life as a result of an International Olympic Committee (IOC) investigation into allegations of widespread doping among Russian competitors and sample tampering by laboratory and security officials at the Sochi Games.
Gold medal-winning bobsledders Dmitrii Trunenkov and Aleksei Negodailo, members of the winning four-man team, as well as biathlon relay silver medalists Yana Romanova and Olga Vilukhina, who also won silver in the 7.5 km event, were the latest to be sanctioned by the IOC on Monday.
Russia, a winter sports powerhouse, were top of the medals table at the end of the Games on home soil in 2014 but the latest IOC decision now brings their number of gold medals at events down to eight.
Those already banned include double gold medalist bobsledder Alexander Zubkov, Olympic skeleton champion Alexander Tretyakov as well as six cross-country skiers.
While the IOC has ordered the return of the medals, Russian sports officials have pledged to appeal the bans and take their case to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS).
It is unlikely that Russians will get any medals back with the IOC saying on Monday that the doping samples had been clearly tampered with, in its published reasoning on the first athlete to have been banned in this process.
But they can be hopeful of potentially overturning the lifetime Olympic bans, with CAS having thrown out previous attempts to ban past drugs cheats from future Olympics.
The IOC and the British Olympic Association had tried to pass such Olympic bans ahead of the 2012 London Games but both efforts were thwarted by CAS.
It will no doubt further delay the process and can ultimately lead to medals being reallocated years later as is often the case.
The IOC told Reuters that with each case being different and involving several international sports federations as well as appeals, giving a specific date by when all Sochi Games medals will have been decided was not possible at this stage.
Australian race walker Jared Tallent received his London 2012 Olympics 50-km gold medal in 2016 after Russian winner Sergey Kirdyapkin was stripped of his medal for doping.
But it could also be the case that the IOC decides not to reallocate some medals, as they did with disgraced U.S. sprinter Mario Jones’s 100m gold medal from the 2000 Sydney Olympics.
In 2007 the IOC stripped all five of Jones’ Sydney Games track and field medals but refused to reallocate her 100m sprint gold to silver medalist Katerina Thanou of Greece, who was herself disqualified for doping offences at the 2004 Games.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Sunday’s National Hockey League games:
Rangers 4, Canucks 3 (shootout)
Jimmy Vesey scored the deciding goal in the seventh round of the shootout as the New York Rangers defeated the Vancouver Canucks 4-3 on Sunday afternoon.
Brock Boeser and Sven Baertschi of the Canucks and Kevin Shattenkirk and Rick Nash of the Rangers also scored during the shootout.
The Rangers have won four in a row and eight straight games at home.
Loui Eriksson, Jake Virtanen and Sam Gagner scored in regulation for the Canucks, who received 17 saves from Jacob Markstrom. New York’s regulation goals came from Jesper Fast, Michael Grabner and Vesey.
Hurricanes 4, Predators 3 (SO)
Carolina was perfect in the shootout, with Sebastian Aho and Teuvo Teravainen converting to defeat Nashville.
Craig Smith had tied the game for Nashville with 8:45 remaining in the third period.
Carolina’s Justin Williams scored on a third-period power play to put the Hurricanes ahead with 14:11 left. Carolina also got goals from Josh Jooris and Victor Rask, while Viktor Arvidsson and Mattias Ekholm scored for Nashville.
Oilers 4, Bruins 2
Ryan Strome scored the tiebreaking goal early in the third period, and Edmonton beat Boston.
Strome took a pass from Leon Draisaitl in the high slot 2:07 into the third and fired it past Boston goaltender Tuukka Rask for a 3-2 lead. The Oilers took their sixth straight victory over the Bruins, a streak that stretches back to Nov. 6, 2014.


(Reuters) - Olympic hopeful Satoko Miyahara clinched an emphatic victory in the ladies’ competition at Skate America on Sunday ahead of Japanese compatriot Kaori Sakamoto.
Miyahara, who missed part of last season due to a hip injury, built on her lead from Saturday’s short program with a near flawless performance in the free skate in Lake Placid, New York.
She secured a season-best 143.31 points to finish with 214.03, ahead of Sakamoto on 210.59. American Bradie Tennell was third on 204.10 in her senior Grand Prix debut.
Miyahara’s victory, however, was not enough to clinch a place in the Grand Prix final in her home country in two weeks’ time. She will be first substitute for the Nagoya competition.
“I am very happy and satisfied with today’s performance and to get my best scores,” said the 19-year-old, who completed seven clean triples skating to ‘Madame Butterfly’.
The 2015 world silver medalist missed the world championships earlier this year due to a stress fracture in her left hip.
“After the injury, this is the first big step. The most important event, the Japanese nationals, are coming next month,” said Miyahara, who faces a big challenge to make the Japanese team for February’s Pyeongchang Winter Olympics.
Sakamoto was also satisfied with her personal best in the free skate but said she can get even better.
“In the short program I did a mistake on the spin and I have so much room to improve my performance -- the jumps, the spins and the grade of execution,” she said.
In the ice dancing competition, American siblings Maia and Alex Shibutani took the title after accruing 194.25 points.
“This was the competition we wanted to have before the Grand Prix Final,” Maia said.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Sunday’s NBA games:
Heat 100, Bulls 93
Goran Dragic scored 24 points, including 14 in the fourth quarter, and Wayne Ellington finished with 19 points as Miami defeated Chicago.
Miami won its third straight game as James Johnson finished with 15 points to go along with 11 points and 10 rebounds from Hassan Whiteside and 10 points off the bench from Kelly Olynyk. Tyler Johnson rounded out Miami’s balanced scoring attack with 10 points.
The Bulls, who have lost five straight, were led by Jerian Grant, who scored 24 points. Denzel Valentine scored 14 points and had 13 rebounds for Chicago, which also got 15 points from Justin Holiday and 11 apiece from rookie Lauri Markkanen and Bobby Portis.
Timberwolves 119, Suns 108
Karl-Anthony Towns had 32 points and 12 rebounds, and Jimmy Butler chipped in with 25 points as the Minnesota Timberwolves held on for a 119-108 win against the Phoenix Suns on Sunday.
Towns recorded his league-leading 16th double-double, and Andrew Wiggins scored 21 points with a season-high four 3-pointers for Minnesota, which survived another strong shooting night from an opponent. Phoenix shot 50.6 percent from the field and was 13 of 26 from 3-point range despite playing without leading scorer Devin Booker.
Taj Gibson had 16 points and a season-high 14 rebounds for the Timberwolves, who had lost three of their previous four games. Minnesota is off to its best start since 2005-06 when it also started 12-8.
Nets 98, Grizzlies 88
DeMarre Carroll scored 24 points and Trevor Booker had 16 points and 11 rebounds as Brooklyn beat Memphis.
Marc Gasol and Tyreke Evans had 18 points each to pace the Grizzlies. Gasol scored only two points in the second half.


(Reuters) - Over half of the 377 weightlifters at the world championships that begin on Tuesday in the United States will be drug tested as the sport begins a new chapter to try to retain its Olympic status after decisions taken by the governing IWF.
By the time of the last lift on Dec. 5 at the worlds in Anaheim, California, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) will have begun deliberations on whether weightlifting should feature at the Paris 2024 Games.
“We accept that in the past the incidence of doping in weightlifting has been too high,” says Hungarian Tamas Ajan, president of the International Weightlifting Federation (IWF) since 2000 and secretary general for 24 years before that.
Ajan, 78, was speaking in Anaheim at the weekend, where the IWF adopted a hardline approach to doping at an executive board meeting. It will target “less than a dozen high-risk countries where there is an entrenched culture of doping that goes beyond weightlifting”. The countries involved were not named.
Of the 49 weightlifting positives in the re-testing of samples from the 2008 and 2012 Olympics – more than any other sport - 43 were from nations formerly part of the Soviet Union.
Russia was banned from the Rio 2016 Games for repeated offences that “brought weightlifting into disrepute” and is also among the nine nations excluded from the world championships for having three or more of those 49 positives.
Russian Weightlifting Federation president Maxim Agapitov said at the European Junior Championships in Albania on Oct 22:
“We are building a new future, but I accept we have to take responsibility for so many positives in the past. It is in the past but it so happens that we must answer for it.”
China is also banned from the world championships in Anaheim and, like Russia, has been accused of state-sponsored doping.
When the IFW said it was imposing a one-year ban on Chinese lifters from mid-October, the Chinese Weightlifting Association (CWA) issued a statement expressing “regret” at the decision.
“China has been firmly against doping and has a zero-tolerance approach to this particular problem,” Xinhua reported the CWA as saying in a statement on Oct. 1.
Doping allegations against China and Russia are under investigation by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA).
However, Russia, like the Chinese, has always denied any involvement in state-sponsored doping.
Under new rules approved by the IWF on Saturday, countries will face bans of up to four years “if they do not fulfill their anti-doping responsibilities”, which would keep them out of the Olympics.
A new Olympic qualifying system will also require athletes to compete more often than some do now.
Kazakh Ilya Ilyin, stripped of his gold medals from Beijing and London after testing positive, was absent from international competition for more than two years between those two Games.
There will be more out-of-competition testing, and a more detailed record of athletes’ coaching and support personnel.
The IWF’s anti-doping program will be handed over to an Independent Testing Authority.
“Today marks the start of a new chapter for international weightlifting,” said Ajan. “The Olympic Movement can trust that we are doing, and will continue to do, everything in our power to address the incidence of doping in our sport.”
A Clean Sport Commission set up by the IWF, including two German scientists, an American lawyer, and the president of the German Weightlifting Federation among its seven members, made the recommendations adopted this weekend, and will monitor progress over the next four years.
In June the IOC asked for an IWF report by December on how the governing body plans to deal with doping. Unless it is deemed “satisfactory” at an IOC meeting in Lausanne on Dec. 5-6, weightlifting will lose its Olympic status after Tokyo 2020.
Because of the bans, and North Korea’s decision not to enter, 13 of 15 current world champions will not compete in Anaheim, leaving Tunisia, Mongolia and New Zealand, who have no pedigree in the sport at this level, to contend for medals.
The U.S. hope to win their first men’s world championships medals in 20 years. The host nation’s best chance of success is in the 69kg category with teenager Clarence ‘CJ’ Cummings, who has won four world titles at youth and junior level.


(Reuters) - Kjetil Jansrud won the first Super-G of the season at Lake Louise on Sunday, besting a duo of Austrians and his Norwegian team mates for his 10th World Cup title in the event.
The favorite going into Sunday’s competition, the twice Super-G season winner was flawless during his one minute 30.76 second trip down the course in Western Canada.
“Winning the race proves that you are on the right track, so I‘m very happy with my win today in Lake Louise,” he said of the first of six Super-Gs of the Olympic season.
Sunday’s race comes with just 74 days remaining before the opening ceremony of Pyeongchang Winter Olympics.
Two Austrians, Max Franz (1:31.04) and 37-year-old Hannes Reichelt (1:31.08), the oldest racing in Sunday’s field, finished second and third.
Aleksander Aamodt Kilde (1:31.17) and Aksel Lund Svindal (1:31.28), two Norwegians who along with Jansrud are known as the “Attacking Vikings,” finished fourth and fifth.
The 32-year-old Jansrud was among the first to race on Sunday and benefited from clear conditions that were not enjoyed by many of his competitors.
Heavy snow fell as the day progressed, slowing the course down and impacting visibility.
Jansrud had finished fifth in the downhill event on Saturday and the winner of that race, Swiss Beat Feuz, finished 12th in the Super-G on Sunday.
A scary moment occurred when Briton Jack Gower crashed at full speed into the course’s net fencing, losing a ski and tumbling awkwardly.
He waved his hand to the crowd to indicate he was okay and was able to ski to the end of the course under his own strength after the race was temporarily suspended.
The sport is still mourning the death of French skier David Poisson in a training accident in Alberta on Nov. 13.
The next stop for the men is Beaver Creek, where there will be Super-G, downhill and giant slalom events on Dec. 1-3.


(Reuters) - American Mikaela Shiffrin beat rival Petra Vlhova of Slovakia to claim the World Cup title in the women’s slalom for the second year in a row at the Killington Cup in Vermont on Sunday.
Shiffrin built a commanding 0.89 of a second lead with an aggressive first run and avoided mistakes in her solid second trip down the icy course in windy conditions.
She finished with a combined time for the two runs of 1 minute 40.91 seconds, 1.64 seconds better than Vlhova.
“I just tried to stay as balanced as I could,” Shiffrin said of her second run.
”I wanted to really attack the second run but I also knew I had to be smart in some sections and it worked out quite well.
“It wasn’t easy but when I ski balanced, it makes it easier than when I don‘t.”
The win marks the 22-year-old Shiffrin’s first World Cup crown of the year and her 26th career title in slalom.
Shiffrin will look to be the first skier to win back-to-back gold medals in slalom when she competes at the Winter Olympic Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea in February.
Sunday’s win was payback for Shiffrin, who has lost to fellow 22-year-old Vlhova in the last two World Cup slalom competitions.
The speedy Vlhova has emerged as the American’s chief rival in the sport.
Austrian Bernadette Schild finished a distant third, 2.67 second back of Shiffrin.
The Colorado-born Shiffrin, who spent her formative years in New Hampshire and Vermont, credited the vocal support of the record crowd of 18,000 for her win.
“Today I felt they really carried me to the finish,” she said. “The fans on the East Coast are the best crowd that I race in front of.”


ABU DHABI (Reuters) - Valtteri Bottas won the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix on Sunday as Mercedes wrapped up another triumphant Formula One season with a one-two finish and four-times world champion Lewis Hamilton having to settle for second.
The win was a career third for the Finn, who had started on pole position and stayed in front to deny Hamilton a 10th success of the 20-race campaign.
"It's a really important win for me after having a pretty difficult starhere:reuters.com,2017:newsml_RC1A871CE5E0:1882414687/tag:reuters.com,2017:binary_RC1A871CE5E0-BASEIMAGE?action=download&mediatype=picture&mex_media_type=picture&token=%22eRteDxUrGvnKAtm9NwB9oTbL%2BE8%2Fe0J3yfbfQ%2BHdRaQ%3D%22t to the second half of the year," said Bottas, who joined Mercedes after 2016 champion Nico Rosberg retired abruptly a year ago.
“This weekend, pole and win, I couldn’t be happier to end the season like this.”
In a processional race, with plenty of glamour but little excitement under the Yas Marina floodlights, Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel took third place to finish runner-up in a championship that Hamilton won in Mexico last month.
The final points tally was Hamilton 363, Vettel 317 and Bottas 305.
Mercedes had already won the constructors’ world championship for the fourth year in a row and ended with 668 points to Ferrari’s 522. The one-two finish was their fourth of the season.
Bottas managed the pace throughout, ceding the lead to Hamilton only when he pitted first, with no major issues.
He took the chequered flag 3.8 seconds clear of his team mate, who had been within a second at one point. Vettel was 19 seconds down the road.
”After three, four or five laps I couldn’t go any faster and from then it was pretty lonely,“ said Vettel, a three-times winner in Abu Dhabi. ”In the second part of the race we had a stronger pace but not good enough.
“Very much congratulations to Lewis on his season, he deserves to win the championship this year in the end. I hate to say it, but he was the better man. I‘m sure we will do our bit over the winter and hopefully come back stronger.”
Hamilton kept Bottas in his sights but was unable to do anything but follow. He said that was not because of any lack of intent.
“Big congratulations to Valtteri, he did an amazing job today to hold me off. It was a great race, I gave it everything, every single lap. It is hard to overtake here,” said the Briton after his 25th successive race in the points.
“It’s so hard to follow,” he said in the cool-down room before going on the podium. “I was, like, ‘Where are all the backmarkers?'. I think they need to change this track.”
The pair performed celebratory tyre-burning spins after the finish, with retiring Brazilian Felipe Massa pulling his Williams alongside the Mercedes and joining in the hugs and handshakes.
With the finishing order reflecting the starting positions, with the exception of Red Bull’s Australian Daniel Ricciardo who retired with an hydraulics issue, the main suspense was in midfield.
Toro Rosso, Renault and Haas were separated by just six points before the start, with millions of dollars in prize money at stake and Renault taking the honours thanks to Nico Hulkenberg’s sixth place.
It was still a tense evening for the French manufacturer team, however, after their Spanish driver Carlos Sainz was released from a pitstop with a loose wheel and retired after almost crashing in the exit tunnel.
Hulkenberg was also given a five-second penalty for cutting a corner, with some considering that the stewards had let the German off lightly rather than forcing him to hand back the place to Force India’s Sergio Perez.
There was also an emotional send-off for Brazilian veteran  Massa, the 2008 world championship runner-up finishing 10th in his final race.
“I am very lucky to have all of this in my life so ready for the next step,” said the former Ferrari driver. “For sure, I will miss many things -- racing against amazing drivers and competing in the best car and the best category in the world.”
McLaren’s Honda partnership ended in the points with Fernando Alonso finishing ninth.
The old Formula One logo also made a final appearance, the sport’s new owners presenting a new one as part of a bigger rebranding to come.


ABU DHABI (Reuters) - Lewis Hamilton ended the Formula One season on the podium on Sunday but recognized that winning his fourth world championship with two races to spare had affected his performances.
As in 2015, when he secured the title in Texas and then-team mate Nico Rosberg claimed the final three races of the season, Hamilton has not won since the U.S. Grand Prix.
He was ninth in Mexico, where he clinched the title, then fourth in Brazil two weeks ago and second in Abu Dhabi on Sunday behind Mercedes team mate Valtteri Bottas.
Last year, with the battle going down to the wire, he won the last four races but still lost out to Rosberg -- who retired soon after.
“I still drove relatively well but, yeah, I wouldn’t say it was 100 percent like it was whilst in the season,” the Briton told reporters after ending the campaign with nine wins from 20 races.
”All I can say is that in the week after I won the championship I partied a lot. That’s what you do. I didn’t do that before the other races.
“The energy has not been the same, even if I have approached the races the same. But I‘m not worried about that. Next year it will go back to what it was in the second half of the season,” he added.
Hamilton won two of his titles -- in 2008 and 2014 -- in the final race of the season.
Leaving them aside, he has yet to win a race (in the same season) after winning the championship -- a problem that did not affect to the same extent other multiple champions such as Michael Schumacher.
Mercedes team boss Toto Wolff said he was not at all concerned.
“These guys are pushing the cars to the limit. He didn’t put a foot wrong all season. I’d rather it happened after the championship than before,” said the Austrian.
Wolff said both Mercedes drivers had raced for the win on Sunday, rejecting scepticism about whether the pair were truly fighting for position once Bottas led away from pole position.
”They were almost full blast,“ he said. ”We gave them the power in order to fight it out on track.
“It’s very difficult with these cars to overtake in Abu Dhabi.”


ABU DHABI (Reuters) - Felipe Massa bowed out of Formula One in Abu Dhabi on Sunday with his head held high and one last point in a career that brought him 11 wins and almost a world championship with Ferrari.
The 36-year-old Brazilian said he was ready for the next step, whatever that might be.
“For sure, I will miss many things -- racing against amazing drivers and competing in the best car and the best category in the world,” he said after finishing 10th for Williams under the Yas Marina floodlights.
The farewell was one of several for Massa, who also retired last year before being brought back hurriedly by Williams in January as a replacement for Valtteri Bottas when the Finn went to Mercedes.
He had also said goodbye to his home fans in Brazil two weeks ago.
But there was still plenty of emotion as the sport saluted a man who lost out to Lewis Hamilton in the 2008 championship by a single point and then endured life-threatening head injuries in Hungary in 2009 when hit by a bouncing spring in qualifying.
“You wouldn’t meet a more universally-liked driver, I think,” said long-time friend and colleague Rob Smedley, now head of performance engineering at Williams after a stint at Ferrari as the Brazilian’s race engineer.
“It will be weird coming to a grand prix and not having him there,” he told Sky Sports television.
“We’re mates so we’ll see lots of each other. That won’t change. He’ll carry on racing because it’s in his blood. I think this is now definitely, undoubtedly, the right time to retire from Formula One.”
Massa ends the season 11th overall, with 43 points compared to his teenage rookie Canadian team mate Lance Stroll on 40.
But while the bulk of Stroll’s points came from a third place finish in Azerbaijan and sixth in Mexico, Massa has been a more consistent scorer with 13 top 10 finishes in 20 races compared to the Canadian’s seven.
“He’s been unlucky, he hasn’t got all the points he should have done, he should have won in Azerbaijan,” said Smedley.
“But weekend in and weekend out we rely on him and to have a driver like that who is loved by the team, loved by the paddock and is still performing at the top of his game, there’s no better way to go out.”


LILLE, France (Reuters) - France won their 10th Davis Cup title when Lucas Pouille crushed Steve Darcis 6-3 6-1 6-0 to give the hosts a 3-2 victory in the final against neighbours Belgium on Sunday.
Pouille was never threatened in the decisive rubber after David Goffin had given Belgium both their points with impressive displays in the singles.
Les Bleus, however, had more strength in depth, winning a singles match through Jo-Wilfried Tsonga on Friday and Saturday’s doubles with Richard Gasquet and Pierre-Hugues Herbert.
It was their first title since they beat Australia away in 2001 before three defeats in the final - in 2002, 2010 and 2014 - while Belgium have yet to win the title, having now lost three finals after defeats in 1904 and 2015.
Yannick Noah, the last Frenchman to win a grand slam title, celebrated his third Davis Cup success as captain after leading France to victory in 1991 and 1996.
“It was a victory we had been dreaming off,” said Noah.     “It’s a united group. It was a tough weekend against a good Belgian team. Lucas played a fantastic final match.”
Belgium captain Johan Van Herck added: “I would not change anything. We have regrets about losing, it’s normal that we are disappointed after a tough weekend. In sports it’s never nice to be second”.
Goffin gave the visitors a 1-0 lead by beating Pouille in the opening singles before Tsonga levelled by defeating Darcis on Friday, the number ones both prevailing in straight sets.
France took the lead thanks to the pairing of Gasquet and Herbert, who had never played a competitive match together but beat Ruben Bemelmans and Joris De Loore in four sets.
Goffin was again a notch above the rest on Sunday, levelling the tie at 2-2 against Tsonga with a 7-6(5) 6-3 6-2 win as the world number seven sent the tie into a decider.
The final match was anti-climactic as Pouille went for the throat, racing to a 3-0 lead against Darcis, who never seemed to stand a chance on the indoor hardcourt even if he had won all of his five matches in the competition before.
World number 18 Pouille, who was born 75 km from Lille, held serve to take the first set and never looked back, claiming 12 games in a row and closing it out on the first match point when a sorry Darcis sent a shot long.
“There’s nothing more beautiful than winning as a team in front of my friends and family. Now we’re going to celebrate and enjoy it,” said Pouille.


(Reuters) - American Nathan Chen overcame his worst free skate in more than a year to win gold at Skate America in Lake Placid, New York on Saturday.
Chen, the final skater of the night, fell during one jump and had to put his hand on the ice to prevent another tumble during a routine that earned him a disappointing score of 171.76, which was still the second highest of the free skate.
But thanks to the 18-year-old’s 15-plus-point lead after Friday’s short program, Chen commanded the top spot with a total score of 275.88, locking up a place in his second straight Grand Prix Final in Japan next month.
“Very disappointed with today,” Chen told reporters.
“I came in here with a lot more expectations in terms of what I was going to do. I exerted too much energy (early) and then it took me a little bit to recalculate. I didn’t recalculate properly and so the rest of the program went downhill from there.”
American team mate Adam Rippon won the free skate with a score of 177.41 despite dislocating his shoulder on his first jump due to a fall. Rippon grabbed silver overall with a score of 266.45.
“For American skating, I think it says a lot,” Rippon said. “It says that in the most important year, an Olympic year, that we’re here and we’re here to challenge for medals in the individual event and we’re here to challenge for the gold medal in the team event.”
Russia’s Sergei Voronov was third at 257.49 followed by China’s Jin Boyang and Yan Han. Ross Miner of the U.S. was sixth.
On the women’s side, Japan’s Satoko Miyahara finished atop the short program at 70.72.
Miyahara thrived to put a hip injury behind her that had kept her out of competitions this year.
Japan’s Kaori Sakamoto was second (69.40) followed by Canada’s Gabrielle Daleman (68.08) and Bradie Tennell (67.01) of the U.S.
In the pairs competition, Aljona Savchenko and Bruno Massot of Germany came from third to snatch gold with a winning score of 223.13 after a strong showing in the free skate.
China’s Yu Xiaoyu and Zhang Hao stayed in second with a total of 219.20 while Canadian double world champions Meagan Duhamel and Eric Radford lost their lead after Friday’s short program and ended up third.


(Reuters) - Reigning World Cup champion Beat Feuz again set the pace by winning the season-opening men’s downhill at Lake Louise on Saturday as the sport continued to mourn death of French skier David Poisson.
The 30-year-old Swiss sped down the course in a time of one minute 43.76 seconds to edge Austria’s Matthias Mayer (1.43.85)  by less than a tenth of a second.
The day, however, belonged to the memory of Poisson, who died Nov. 13 in a training accident in Alberta. Skiers wore heart-shaped stickers with his initials on their helmets and race bibs that bore his name.
It was particularly meaningful for the French racers, who competed with Poisson’s name emblazoned across their chests. Adrien Theaux posted the French team’s best result in seventh place.
But Feuz, who in February beat Canada’s Erik Guay for the World Cup gold in St. Moritz, once again set the standard.
“Beginning the season with a win is the best thing that can happen,” Feuz said. “I had a great summer preparation, without any injuries and am very happy about how things turned out here, especially as I’m not performing very well here usually.”
Norway’s Aksel Lund Svindal took third despite struggling with a knee that ended his last season prematurely.
“(The knee) is not awesome, but racing is racing,” the 34-year-old said. “You don’t get old in sports, it’s more about injuries you have. In the end, there’s just too much stuff that’s not working the way it should.”
Italy’s Peter Fill finished fourth (1:44.28) followed by another Norwegian Kjetil Jansrud (1:44.39).
The race schedule at Lake Louise will continue on Sunday with the Super-G competition.


ABU DHABI (Reuters) - British teenage gamer Brendon Leigh became Formula One’s first eSports champion after winning the finale in Abu Dhabi on Saturday.
The 18-year-old kitchen manager from Reading, who had never before left Britain or attended a Formula One race, collected a total of 74 points to come out on top of the 20 finalists competing at the finals inside the F1 paddock.
More than 63,000 hopefuls worldwide had entered the competition back in September by competing on PlayStation4, Xbox One and Windows PC platforms.
The rewards for the winner, apart from taking away the inaugural trophy, included the right to be a non-driver character in the official F1 2018 game and automatic qualification for next year’s semi-final.
“Winning here means a huge amount to me. I am the first one to do it. That is special,” Leigh said after finishing six points ahead of Chilean Fabrizio Donoso Delgado after three races - Montreal, Spa and Yas Marina.
“I am not sure how to celebrate. I don’t drink or anything: I think I might just go to bed,” added the teenager, who swept past Delgado on the final lap of the virtual Abu Dhabi circuit to win the title.
The top three gamers will have an official prize giving ceremony on the grand prix podium after Sunday’s real season-ending race.
“The attraction to a broad and committed younger generation of F1 and Esport fans is something that we are proud to support and nurture,” said Formula One’s commercial manager Sean Bratches in a statement.
“We look forward to establishing a season-long series in 2018.”
The eSports Series is a partnership with Formula One, game developer Codemasters and events and competitions specialists Gfinity.
U.S.-based Liberty Media, who took over Formula One in January and have targeted gaming as a growth area to drive revenues and connect with younger audiences, are also due to reveal a new logo and branding for the sport on Sunday.
Some of Formula One’s participants are already embracing the world of eSports, with McLaren executive director Zak Brown saying all teams could eventually have their own virtual counterpart.
McLaren recently appointed a gamer as an official simulator driver and twice world champion Fernando Alonso has launched his own eSport team.


(Reuters) - Germany’s Viktoria Rebensburg won her second World Cup race of the season on Saturday when she beat American favorite Mikaela Shiffrin in the giant slalom in Killington, Vermont.
Rebensburg, the 2010 Olympic champion in the giant slalom, expanded the lead she had established on her opening run on the Superstar trail, clocking a combined two-run time of 1 minute 57.63 seconds.
It gave her a convincing win by 0.67 seconds over Shiffrin, who had put herself in striking position of a victory following her first run. Italy’s Manuela Moelgg (1:59.12) finished third.
The win for Rebensburg came four weeks after she won the giant slalom in the first race of the World Cup season in Soelden, Austria.
Rebensburg finished the first run in 58.39 seconds, with Shiffrin 0.26 back and Molgg third, 0.58 behind the leader.
The World Cup event at Killington finishes on Sunday with the slalom, Shiffrin’s specialty as the defending champion.
The day began with a moment of silence for David Poisson, the French skier who died following a crash during training at the Canadian resort of Nakiska on Nov. 13.


LILLE, France (Reuters) - France captain Yannick Noah gambled on an untested pair for the  pivotal Davis Cup final doubles against Belgium on Saturday but  Richard Gasquet and Pierre-Hugues Herbert’s win ensured he was spared a “hot seat” as Les Bleus moved into the driving seat.
Despite a big scare in the third set, Noah’s chosen duo beat Ruben Bemelmans and Joris De Loore 6-1 3-6 7-6(2) 6-4 as France moved 2-1 ahead and within one win of a 10th Davis Cup title before Sunday’s reverse singles.
Noah had been expected to pick either Julien Benneteau or Nicolas Mahut, with whom Herbert won two grand slam titles, but he surprisingly went for Gasquet instead, thus putting out a combination who had never played a competitive match together.
“It was a difficult decision because a lot of people did not have the same vision and even people within the group did not have the same vision,” Noah, who already led France to Davis Cup titles as captain in 1991 and 1996, told reporters.
Noah, however, stuck with his choice, which he made on Tuesday after Herbert and Gasquet showed great form at a training camp.
“It would have been much easier to make the politically correct decision and lose with honors,” he said.
“Personally, it’s good for me that they won because otherwise I would have been on a hot seat,” he added with a smile.
“We knew we’d have to be solid mentally,” said Gasquet. “We knew that we had everything to lose.”
Noah explained that Gasquet had been included in the team to replace Jo-Wilfried Tsonga or Lucas Pouille in the singles in case of injury.
“This was a factor because I don’t think either of our three doubles specialists (Herbert, Benneteau and Mahut) would have been able to play a best-of-five set Davis Cup match on a Sunday,” he said.
Belgium captain Johan Van Herck defended his selection after deciding not to make room in the pair for the in-form Goffin.
“A doubles is about who can play well with who and my feeling was that Ruben and Joris were the best pair for us today,” he said.
France will win the title before the fifth match if Tsonga beats world number seven David Goffin after both impressed during their singles wins on Friday.
“He has been thinking about this match for a while now and when he thinks about it, he sees himself winning it,” said Noah. “He is ready.”


ABU DHABI (Reuters) - Valtteri Bottas denied quadruple world champion team mate Lewis Hamilton the final pole position of the Formula One season on Saturday, leading a Mercedes one-two in Abu Dhabi Grand Prix qualifying.
The pole was the Finn’s second in a row, and fourth of the campaign, and he was determined to convert it into a victory after missing out in Brazil two weeks ago.
“I was so gutted in the last race being on pole and missing the win. I have a clear target for tomorrow,” said Bottas after lapping under the floodlights with a best time of one minute 36.231 seconds.
That was a track record, 0.172 quicker than his team mate and compared to Hamilton’s 2016 pole of 1:38.755.
Hamilton, who had been aiming for his 12th pole of the year, was behind Bottas after the first flying laps of the final session and was unable to improve on his time.
“What a lap! He just had an incredible qualifying and congratulations to him,” said Hamilton, who clinched his fourth championship in Mexico last month, as he saluted Bottas in front of the crowd.
“The last qualifying of the year and I gave it everything but I seem to have lost a little pace going into qualifying. Valtteri did an exceptional job, so I‘m really happy for him,” added the Briton, who won from pole last year.
“Either way, it’s been an incredible year of qualifying and one that I’ve really enjoyed.”
Hamilton will end the season with 72 career poles, an all-time record for the sport, after passing Michael Schumacher’s previous best of 68 at the Italian Grand Prix in September.
Mercedes have already clinched their fourth successive constructors’ championship, leaving Sunday’s race with little at stake for top teams beyond bragging rights to take into the winter break.
Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel qualified third with Australian Daniel Ricciardo lining up alongside him on the second row of the grid for Red Bull.
Vettel beat Bottas to the victory in Brazil, his fifth of the year, and is on course to become the first non-Mercedes driver in four years to finish the championship in the top two with a 22 point advantage over third-placed Bottas.
While he hoped to challenge for the win on Sunday, the German did not sound overly confident.
“Tomorrow with the race pace I think we can be a bit closer but they (Mercedes) have been very strong,” said Vettel, also a four times world champion and three times winner at Yas Marina with Red Bull.
“It should be a fun race, overtaking is not always straightforward but not impossible here so let’s see.”
Kimi Raikkonen qualified fifth for Ferrari with Dutch 20-year-old Max Verstappen sixth for Red Bull.
Brazilian veteran Felipe Massa concluded the final qualifying of his Formula One career with 10th place for Williams.
“It’s a good way to retire, good races, good lap times. I‘m happy that I‘m finished with my head up and competitive,” he said.
“I want to have fun tomorrow. I have nothing to lose, risk everything you can. Let’s have fun.”
Renault seized the initiative in the tight battle for sixth place with Nico Hulkenberg qualifying seventh and Carlos Sainz 12th.
Millions of dollars of prize money are at stake on Sunday, with Toro Rosso four points clear of Renault who are in turn two ahead of U.S.-owned Haas.
Toro Rosso had France’s Pierre Gasly and New Zealander Brendon Hartley lining up 17th and last respectively while Haas had Denmark’s Kevin Magnussen 14th and Romain Grosjean 16th.


LILLE, France (Reuters) - France moved one step closer to a 10th Davis Cup title when Richard Gasquet and Pierre-Hugues Herbert beat Ruben Bemelmans and Joris De Loore 6-1 3-6 7-6(2) 6-4 to give the hosts a 2-1 lead in the final against neighbors Belgium on Saturday.
The French pair, in their first competitive match together, were down a break in the third set when Bemelmans suffered a meltdown, allowing Les Bleus to turn the situation around.
David Goffin put the visitors ahead by beating Lucas Pouille in the opening singles before Jo-Wilfried Tsonga leveled for 1-1 when he defeated Steve Darcis in the second singles on Friday.
Tsonga and Goffin face off in the first reverse singles on Sunday.


SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Fans flocked to the first event staged in mainland China by the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) as a new generation added their names to a proud martial arts history that stretches back thousands of years.
Ticket touts outside the sold-out Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai did a brisk trade as Chinese fighters recorded five  victories and three defeats, welterweight Li Jingliang scoring the biggest win with his knockout of Zak Ottow in the co-main event.
In the main event, the crowd fell into a stunned silence after chanting the name of former middleweight champion Michael Bisping when he was knocked out halfway through the first round by hot prospect Kelvin Gastelum.
The real support, however, was reserved for the eight Chinese fighters on the card, many of them competing for the first time under the UFC banner.
Every heavy blow landed by a Chinese fighter was greeted with roars of approval from the partisan crowd, with the biggest cheers reserved for Li’s knockout of Ottow.
“I want to send this victory to every supporter who supports me here in China, I love you! And for every one of you in the audience here that witnessed this victory, this is for you!” Li shouted into the microphone following his win.
“China is the birthplace of martial arts! China is getting brighter and stronger!” he told his supporters, who answered his subsequent chants of “China!” by bellowing “Power!”
With events in Europe, Australia and Asia during 2017, the UFC is continuing its efforts to expand globally and the Chinese market represents an area of huge potential, with local fighters an integral part of building a loyal fan base.
“I like Li Jingliang, he’s Chinese and he fights well. He has blood lust,” 27-year-old aspiring fighter Tong Cheng told Reuters. “I‘m proud because China won a lot tonight.”
Cai Jingyu, a 40-year-old import-export executive, enthused over featherweight Wang Guan, who sent Alex Caceres crashing to the canvas on several occasions before winning on points.
“I like Wang Guan because he represents China. He is China’s dream,” Cai told Reuters.
“I think he will develop well and I hope that he will bring pride to Chinese people in the future.”
UFC Asia vice-president Kevin Chang was delighted with the turnout by fans and the performance by the Chinese fighters on show.
“They brought their best level and I think it shows where the level of talent has come to in China,” he told a media conference.


SYDNEY (Reuters) - Former world number one Jason Day will take a one-stroke lead into the final day of the Australian Open after firing up on the back nine and shooting a third-round two-under 69 in tricky conditions on Saturday.
Major winner Day will fancy his chances of getting his hands on the Stonehaven Cup for the first time, and grabbing his first win of the year, after moving to 10-under 203 for the tournament but he will first have to get away from Lucas Herbert.
The 21-year-old, who was paired with fellow Australian Day in the final grouping as he will be on Sunday, resolutely refused to wilt under the pressure and claimed a par 71 and second place.
“If I can hit shoot anything in the 60s, I think that will help kind of seal the deal,” said Day, who has won six of 13 tournaments where he held the lead after 54 holes.
“I’ve just got to focus on myself and just get myself around the golf course and not try and do anything too crazy.”
For a large part of the round it looked like no one would be making a move on moving day.
Defending champion Jordan Spieth grabbed a birdie on his final hole for the third successive round but it was another disappointing day for the world number two, who was simply unable to find his putting touch.
The 24-year-old Texan, coming off a seven-week layoff, settled for a 70 on a course he tore up to win the Stonehaven Cup in 2014 with a final-round 63 and admitted he would need something similar on Sunday with eight shots to make up on Day.
”What’s weird to me is these mid-range putts,“ he said. ”It’s one thing if they’re lipping out but quite a few of them were missed significantly on bad reads, and that’s rare for me.
“I‘m going to have to have some magic.”
Day parred his first 13 holes and it was only after overnight leader Herbert hit his drive into heavy rough off the 11th tee for a double bogey to lose his advantage that he made his move.
The 30-year-old almost chipped in for an eagle at the 14th before claiming his first birdie, which Herbert matched, and added two more at the 15th and 18th, where he putted for an eagle, after a bogey setback at the 17th.
Swede Jonas Blixt also had a long eagle putt on the 18th but had to settle for a birdie and his flawless 66 was good enough for a share of third place on seven-under with 2015 champion Matt Jones (68).
Cameron Smith, who won his maiden PGA Tour title with Blixt at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans this year, hit a 69 for fifth place on five-under.
Teenager Takumi Kanaya shot the best round of the day with a 65 for a share of eighth on four-under, the Japanese amateur hitting six birdies on the back nine in an explosive finish.


(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Friday’s National Basketball Association games:
Pacers 107, Raptors 104
Victor Oladipo scored 21 points, Bojan Bogdanovic added 19 and Lance Stephenson had 18 as the Indiana Pacers held off a late Toronto rally and won their fifth consecutive game 107-104 on Friday night in Bankers Life Fieldhouse.
The Pacers (11-8) outscored the Raptors (11-7) 57-44 during the final two quarters.
Kyle Lowry led Toronto with 24 points, and Norman Powell and Fred VanVleet each scored 16 as the Raptors lost their second in a row after a four-game winning streak.
Darren Collison added 17 points and eight assists for Indiana, which was 20 of 27 from the line while Toronto was 15 of 20.
Warriors 143, Bulls 94
Stephen Curry poured in 26 of his game-high 33 points in a second-quarter flurry, propelling Golden State to a thrashing of Chicago.
The Warriors eased to the win, their fifth without a defeat when following a loss this season, despite sitting out Kevin Durant with a sprained ankle and Draymond Green on a scheduled night off.
Green is expected to play, but Durant remains questionable, when the Warriors conclude a rare consecutive-night home sequence Saturday against New Orleans.
Blazers 127, Nets 125
Jusuf Nurkic totaled 29 points and 15 rebounds, including the tiebreaking 3-point play with 27.6 seconds remaining as Portland made the plays down the stretch and held on for a victory over Brooklyn.
Nurkic recorded his fifth double-double of the season by shooting 12 of 19 from the floor but made the biggest basket of the game for Portland, which shot 50 percent.
The game was tied at 123 with 38 seconds on a basket by Spencer Dinwiddie, but Nurkic’s hustle under the rim restored the lead for Portland. He scored off a wild scramble under the basket and converted the subsequent free throw for a 126-123 lead.
Hawks 116, Knicks 104
Atlanta notched their fourth victory of the season with a comeback win over New York.
Trailing nearly the entire first half, Atlanta (4-15) fought back in the third period and took control in the fourth when Marco Belinelli and Taurean Prince each hit a pair of 3-pointers late in the game.
Kristaps Porzingis led all scorers with 28 points while Courtney Lee added a season-high 26 for the Knicks (10-8). Dennis Schroder led Atlanta with 26 points.
Celtics 118, Magic 103
Boston erupted for 40 points in the first quarter and 73 in the first half -- both season highs -- on their way to a rout that sent Orlando to its seventh straight loss.
The 118 points also marked a season high for Boston and the Celtics also matched their season best with 17 3-pointers.
The win was also the 14th straight for the Celtics, winners of 17 of their last 18, over the Magic, who haven’t won at TD Garden since 2010.
Cavaliers 100, Hornets 99
LeBron James notched another triple-double, Jeremy Lamb’s final 3-point attempt missed and Cleveland hung on to beat Charlotte.
James finished with 27 points, 16 rebounds and 13 assists for his 57th regular-season triple-double and second this season. He was already in double-digit points, rebounds, and assists before the fourth quarter started.
The Cavs have won seven straight and eight in a row over Charlotte.
The Cavs beat the Hornets 115-107 on Nov. 15. Dwight Howard scored eight points with five rebounds and took five shots in that game; Friday he led Charlotte with 20 points and 13 rebounds.
Heat 109, Timberwolves 97
Long-range shooting and a sound defensive game helped lift Miami to a road win over Minnesota.
Miami set a season high with 19 threes, shooting 49 percent (19-for-39) from 3-point range, led by former Timberwolf Wayne Ellington (6-9) and Goran Dragic (5-8). Ellington’s 21 points off the bench led the Heat followed by Dragic’s 20.
Dion Waiters added 17 while Hassan Whiteside, who sat out Miami’s 125-122 overtime loss to Minnesota on Oct. 30, posted a double-double with 16 points and 10 rebounds.
Jimmy Butler and Andrew Wiggins each scored 18 points to lead the Timberwolves with Jamal Crawford and Shabazz Muhammad adding 10 each off the bench.
Pistons 99, Thunder 98
Detroit turned around its momentum and Oklahoma City once again found itself slipping after seemingly gaining some traction.
The Pistons trailed for much of the game but Avery Bradley’s 3-pointer with 2:01 remaining helped Detroit pull off a win at Chesapeake Energy Arena.
Andre Drummond led the Pistons with 17 points and 14 rebounds. Ish Smith added 15 points off the bench. Russell Westbrook had 27 points, 11 assists and 10 rebounds for the Thunder, who were coming off a win over Golden State on Wednesday.
Nuggets 104, Grizzlies 92
Nikola Jokic had 14 of his game-high 28 points in the fourth quarter as Denver survived a Memphis rally to beat the Grizzlies.
Jokic added 13 rebounds and eight assists to just miss his first triple-double of the season. Gary Harris and Jamal Murray scored 15 apiece and Kenneth Faried had 14 points and nine rebounds to help Denver improve to 8-2 at home this season.
The Nuggets were playing their first home game since Paul Millsap went down with a left wrist in Sunday’s loss at the Los Angeles Lakers. Denver is planning to be without its second-leading scorer for a few months, with surgery likely to repair ligament damage in the joint.
Pelicans 115, Suns 91
Anthony Davis had 23 points and nine rebounds and DeMarcus Cousin added 19 points and 10 rebounds as New Orleans used a 72-point first half to run away from Phoenix.
Davis and Cousins were a combined 15-for-24 from the floor with 19 rebounds and eight assists.
Jrue Holiday added 18 points for New Orleans, who has won three in a row to match their longest winning streak of the season. The Pelicans are 11-8 this season, their best 19-game start since going 13-6 to open the 2010-11 season.

